Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Donald Trump Pleads Not Guilty to 37 counts of Charges on Classified Documents; Russia Launches Multiple Missile Attacks to Ukraine; NATO Secretary General meets President Biden for Next Month's Summit; Federal Reserve to Announce Interest Rate Adjustment Within the Day; Thousands will Pay Respect for the Late Billionaire turned Former Italian PM; The Beatles to Release New Material through A.I. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired June 14, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Anna Coren, live from Hong Kong. 
 
Just ahead on "CNN Newsroom."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Today we witness the most evil and heinous abuse of power in the history of our country. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: A defiant Donald Trump after his historic arrest and arraignment. The first U.S. president ever charged in a federal courtroom. 
 
A stark admission from Vladimir Putin. Russia doesn't have enough drones, warplanes or ammunition. 
 
And if the Russian president hoped his invasion of Ukraine would put a strain on NATO relations that may have backfired, President Biden says NATO allies have never been more united in his meeting with the NATO secretary general. 
 
Former U.S. President Donald Trump is coming out swinging after being arrested and arraigned on federal charges. He pleaded not guilty at a Miami federal courthouse to 37 counts in the classified documents case. 
 
After leaving court, he went to a popular restaurant where supporters sang happy birthday to him since he turned 77 today. 
 
And he said, some birthday, we got a government that is out of control. Trump also called the country corrupt and rigged. Then because the judge imposed no travel restrictions, he went to his Bedminster, New Jersey golf club to fundraise off the outrage. 
 
Trump told supporters that the latest legal action marks the most evil and heinous abuse of power in American history. And he accused President Joe Biden of drumming up the fake and fabricated charges. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Charging a former president of the United States under the espionage act of 1917, wasn't meant for this an act for a crime so heinous that only the death penalty would do and threatening me with 400 years in prison for possessing my own presidential papers, which just about every other president has done, is one of the most outrageous and vicious legal theories ever put forward in an American court of law. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, Trump is now the first former U.S. President to face federal charges. 
 
CNN's Evan Perez explains what happened inside the courtroom and what's ahead. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A historic day here at the federal courthouse in Miami where Donald Trump became the first former president of the United States to face arraignment and face these federal charges that he is now charged with. 
 
He spent just under two hours at the federal courthouse behind me. He was fingerprinted. He was processed by the U.S. marshals and then sat in this courtroom for -- looking a little bit dejected. He had his arms folded, twiddling his thumbs, mostly facing forward as the judge spoke to him about the case. His attorney, Todd Blanch, entered the not guilty plea on his behalf, which is unusual. 
 
In most cases, defendants are required to stand up and address the judge and say they plead not guilty. His co-defendant, Walt Nauta, is going to have to come back because he didn't have a lawyer present who could operate here at the federal courthouse in Miami.
 
One of the interesting developments in the court hearing today was the judge ordering the former president to not discuss the charges with Walt Nauta, his co-defendant, or with any other witness, which is, of course, an interesting restriction. The Former President is facing the fact that a lot of people who work for him at the Trump organization at Mar-a-Lago were witnesses in this case. 
 
And his attorneys raised some concerns about that. Of course, the former president is now running for office again. In the end, the Justice Department promised to produce a list of witnesses that the former president is not allowed to discuss the case with in the coming weeks as this case gets underway here in Southern Florida. 
 
Evan Perez, CNN, Miami. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well, many Republicans were quick to rally to Trump's defense, especially in the U.S. House, where some lawmakers are mounting an all-out campaign to undermine the special counsel's investigation. 
 <br>[03:05:06]
 
There's talk of forcing the special counsel to testify before lawmakers. And there's a growing push to defund parts of the Justice Department and the FBI. But it's unlikely these efforts would get past the Senate with its Democratic majority. 
 
And Republicans are far from united when it comes to Trump. Some worry he will hurt the party ahead of next year's presidential election. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. STEVE WOMACK (R-AR): These are serious allegations. I have serious concerns about anybody that has a reckless disregard for the handling of classified documents. 
 
SEN. LISA MURKOWSKI (R-AK): We cannot take this lightly. I don't care whether you are a Trump supporter or a Trump opposer. You have to take this seriously. 
 
REP. DON BACON (R-NE): I think it's obvious what the president did was wrong. And we just got to be honest. And I just think the upper has no clothes. And we need to have some Republicans stand up and say that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, meanwhile, Trump's former vice president, Mike Pence, told "The Wall Street Journal," having read the indictment, these are very serious allegations and I can't defend what is alleged. But the president is entitled to his day in court. He's entitled to bring a defense and I want to reserve judgment until he has the opportunity to respond. Pence is running against Trump for president. 
 
Russia launched multiple missile attacks on Ukraine overnight Wednesday, according to Ukrainian military officials. At least three people were killed and 13 wounded in the port city of Odessa. 
 
Ukrainian officials say multiple commercial establishments in a residential complex have been damaged and people may still be trapped under the rubble. Military officials say three people were also killed in the Donetsk region due to shelling. 
 
This comes as Ukraine makes progress in its counteroffensive. A Ukrainian military official says they're gaining ground in the East and quote, "systematically destroying Russian manpower and equipment." 
 
Ukraine says its fighters are also pressuring Russian forces near Bakhmut, and Russia is losing ground around the embattled city. 
 
Fred Pleitgen brings us this report from the front lines. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Ukrainian forces firing at Russian troops hold up in Blagodatnoye in south Ukraine. This video, the brigade says, shows the Russians making a final stand here. Much of the area near the front lines, deeply scarred by combat. 
 
(on-camera): This is the area of Ukraine where the heaviest fighting is currently taking place, and you can see what it's done. to a lot of the buildings and the cities and villages around this area. And that fighting is set to get even worse. 
 
(voice-over): We're with the 68th Jaeger Brigade, which has been making important gains here. The soldiers, confident and grateful for U.S. supply gear. 
 
A lot of the times it saved my life, he says. It saves our lives every day from shrapnel, shelling and bullets. 
 
But some of the vehicles have already been lost and the Russians continue to fire back. Constant artillery shelling and even airstrikes too close for comfort as our crew had to duck for cover. 
 
Still, the deputy brigade commander says his soldiers are just getting started. 
 
Our counterattack will definitely be successful, he says. We believe in victory. We are moving forward towards our goal. We are advancing. 
 
On this part of the front line, the Ukrainians believe they have the gear, the manpower and the determination to advance far into Russian- held territory. 
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Velyka Novosilka, Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: For more on this story, I'm joined by Salma Abdelaziz in London. Salma, what more can you tell us about the attacks in Odessa overnight? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so overnight the city of Odessa, as you know, it's a port city right on the Black Sea, which leaves it very vulnerable to Russian attack, especially warship attacks, which is exactly what took place for caliber missiles, Ukrainian officials say fired from the Black Sea by Russia towards Odessa. Three of those were shot down, but at least one landing hitting its target, which was a retail warehouse. 
 
According to Ukrainian officials, they say at least three people were killed inside that warehouse. Emergency services are still on scene. They believe that potentially people could be trapped under the rubble and they continue to work to see if anyone can be saved. 
 <br>[03:09:58]
 
There was also another location where at least six people were injured. That location included a business center, a residential complex, and again this is part of the strategy that we've seen from Russia. These were the attacks overnight. We understand there was 10 missiles fired by Russia and 10 drones fired by Russia overnight, about a dozen of them shot down by Ukrainian forces.
 
But again, part of that strategy from Moscow to really deplete, exhaust Ukraine's air defenses, stretch its resources thin as it continues to engage with Ukrainian troops along that front line. 
 
COREN: And Salma, I believe the Russian president has been speaking to pro-Kremlin media. Was it more rhetoric or an honest assessment of the 16-month war? 
 
ABDELAZIZ: I think it's difficult to expect an honest assessment, as you know, from President Putin. There was a great deal of boasting yet again. He emphasized that Russian forces were victorious on the ground, that they were making great gains, that Ukraine, for its part, was facing catastrophic losses.
 
Of course, this doesn't match with what our reporters on the ground are seeing, as you saw in that Fred Pleitgen package. He did acknowledge that the Ukrainian counteroffensive has started, claiming that it began on June 4th, but saying that they've been unable to make any major gains, that in fact this has been disastrous for Ukraine's forces. 
 
But he did make one rare admission of weakness, Anna. And there's a lot of caveats with it, of course. President Putin admitting that there are some equipments that Russian forces need on the ground but are lacking. Take a listen to what he told war reporters. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Of course, during the special military operation, it became clear that we don't have enough of some things. These are high-precision munitions, communications equipment, UAVs. Yes, drone aircraft. We have them. Unfortunately, we need greater quantities. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ: Now President Putin went on to say that he's ramping up weapons manufacturing inside Russia, that the quality of the weapons being produced in his country is getting better and better. 
 
As you know, of course, President Putin hasn't just been building weapons inside Russia. We do also know that he's been leaning on partners like Iran to restock his arsenal, but still an interesting admission as to what he might be lacking on the ground right now during this counteroffensive. 
 
COREN: Salma Abdelaziz in London. We appreciate the update. Thank you. Well, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg was at the White House
 
 on Tuesday meeting with President Joe Biden. They discussed an upcoming NATO summit in Lithuania next month, as well as support for Ukraine's counteroffensive. 
 
CNN White House correspondent Jeremy Diamond has the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, President Biden on Tuesday welcoming the NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, the two men discussing the progress in Ukraine's fight against Russia's invasion of that country, and talking about the growth of the NATO alliance, the ability within the alliance to strengthen it, to expand it with the addition of Finland now joining that alliance, the possibility of Sweden joining the alliance very soon. 
 
President Biden said that he is looking forward to that summit, the next NATO summit that set to take place next month in Lithuania, where a host of issues are going to be discussed, at the forefront, of course, will be that war in Ukraine, and also the efforts by the United States and other European countries to strengthen NATO's eastern flank.
 
President Biden vowing that the U.S. and NATO will defend every inch of NATO territory, once again issuing a warning to the Russian president should he try and go beyond Ukraine in his military campaign. As Stoltenberg, for his part, he talked directly about what is happening right now in Ukraine, including that military counteroffensive, which he said is being aided by weapons and support from NATO countries. Listen. 
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: And the support that we are providing together to Ukraine is now making a difference on the battlefield as we speak, because the offensive is launched and the Ukrainians are making progress, making advances. It's still early days, but what we do know is that the more land Ukrainians are able to liberate, the stronger hand they will have at the negotiating table. 
 
DIAMOND: Now unresolved after this meeting is the question of who will succeed Stoltenberg as the secretary general of that military alliance. Stoltenberg has already extended his tenure at NATO headquarters three times already. We know that President Biden has previously met with the prime minister of Denmark recently here at the White House, who is considered a potential contender for that post. 
 
Last week, He also hosted the British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, who is lobbying President Biden for his defense minister to take over as the secretary general of NATO. The White House, though, isn't weighing in yet about who President Biden will support. Typically, it is a European candidate who takes the helm of NATO, but the American president as the largest participant in that alliance has a veto effectively over who will succeed. 
 <br>[03:15:14] Now, we also know that the issue of President Zelenskyy and his push to have Ukraine join the NATO military alliance, that is also sure to come up during that summit in Lithuania next month. 
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, The White House. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well, for more on this story, I'm joined by Bloomberg Foreign Affairs columnist Bobby Gosh in Oslo, Norway. Bobby, great to have you with us. 
 
President Biden kept stressing during this meeting, you know, how united NATO is. Is he pointing out the obvious or is he trying to convince folks? 
 
BOBBY GOSH, BLOOMBERG FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: No, he is pointing out the obvious, but it doesn't hurt to remind Vladimir Putin of this. 
 
The joker in the pack in Vilnius will be the Turkish president who has in the past been sitting on the fence between NATO and Putin and Russia. But apart from Turkey, the rest of the NATO alliance has never been as strong as it is. The Ukraine war has focused attentions, has brought this group together like it hasn't been for decades. And it's useful to remind the world at large, but especially remind Vladimir Putin of that fact. 
 
COREN: Bobby, as we just heard from Jeremy's package, you knwo, Biden praised NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, who's stepping down at the end of the year. Who do you believe will replace him, and how will that change the dynamics? 
 
GOSH: Well, I think what we'll likely see is growing pressure on Stoltenberg to agree to another term, another extension by a year. This is not the best moment to change the leadership of NATO. There was an effort behind Ben Wallace, the British defense minister. There was an effort behind Matteo Fredriksen, the Danish prime minister.
 
None of those efforts seem to have gotten anywhere. There is not consensus among the European partners around either of those candidates. Ursula von der Leyen, the E.U -- from the E.U., was also at one point mooted as a candidate. But it's proving hard to get the -- all the ducks in a line for any of these candidates. 
 
Jens Stoltenberg has been there for a long time. He has overseen NATO's assistance to Ukraine. That is very crucial. That needs to continue. He has overseen the process of expanding Ukraine. He is personally dealing with Turkey and Erdogan over trying to get Sweden into the alliance. So this is not the best time for him to walk away. And I'm hearing more and more being here in Europe at the moment that there is mounting pressure on Stoltenberg to stay for another year. 
 
COREN: Yeah, it certainly makes sense. Bobby, Ukrainian membership to NATO is by some reports a consuming debate in Europe, but also among the Biden administration. Do you believe that this is inevitable? Will it be discussed at next month's NATO meeting? And could it launch World War Three if that was to happen? 
 
GOSH: I think it will be discussed, but it will be kicked down the road, as it often is. I think quite a lot of European countries would like to see Ukraine join, but nobody wants to see that happen in the middle of a conflict. They do want the - they appreciate what Ukraine has brought to the defense of Europe, not just to the defense of its own territory.
 
And they understand the value of having Ukraine in - but they also understand what a terrible provocation that will be at this moment. So there will be a discussion. I think you will hear some European leaders say that this is not a bad idea for the future, but this is not the moment to take this forward. 
 
COREN: So you think it will be discussed, but not the priority at next NATO's next meeting? 
 
GOSH: I suspect so. I think if there is a discussion on expanding membership, most of the focus and energy will go on trying to persuade the Turkish president to remove his veto on Sweden joining the Alliance. 
 
COREN: Bobby Gosh, joining us from Oslo. Great to speak to you. Many thanks for your insight. 
 
GOSH: Anytime. 
 
COREN: Well, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken was spoken, I should say, has spoken, by phone with China's Foreign Minister, Qin Gang, ahead of Blinken's expected visit to China in the coming weeks. Well, China's Foreign Ministry says they discussed Beijing's core concerns, including Taiwan. Well, the U.S. State Department says they talked about the importance of communication to avoid miscalculation and conflict. 
 
For more, I'm joined by CNN's Kristie Lu Stout here in Hong Kong. Kristie, tell us more about what was discussed between these two diplomats. 
 <br>[03:20:03]
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Anna, there were pretty pointed comments from Qin Gang, China's foreign minister in this phone call saying that the United States should respect China's core concerns, including the issue of Taiwan. 
 
This was conveyed during a phone call that just took place in the last few hours between Qin Gang and the U.S. secretary of state, America's top diplomat, Antony Blinken, ahead of Blinken's expected visit to Beijing. 
 
According to a Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs readout of this meeting, it said that Qin Gang assessed the status quo of the U.S.- China relationship, saying that it encountered new challenges and difficulties while adding that the responsibility is clear. According to the readout, it also added this. Let's bring up an
 
 excerpt for you. Quote, "It is hoped that the U.S. will take practical actions to implement the important consensus reached by the two heads of state in Bali, making reference to the G20 meeting in November last year and effectively manage differences," unquote. The ministry also called on the U.S. to stabilize and to return to the track of healthy development.
 
The U.S. State Department also acknowledged that this meeting took place with a statement. And the U.S. Secretary of State took to Twitter to provide this statement. Let's bring it up for you in a tweet. Secretary Blinken said, quote, "spoke tonight with PRC State Counselor and Foreign Minister Qin Gang by phone. We discussed ongoing efforts to maintain open channels of communication as well as bilateral and global issues." 
 
Now sources, including two U.S. officials, tell CNN that Blinken is bound for Beijing in the coming weeks. He was originally due to visit Beijing back in February, but that trip of course was delayed because of the Chinese spy balloon incident. 
 
The phone call that just took place is happening at a time of deep tension between these two global superpowers, especially as the White House accuses the Chinese military of increasingly aggressive behavior. You had most recently that near miss that took place in the Taiwan Strait between the Chinese warship, as well as the US worship.
 
Tension is ongoing over a whole raft of issues from territorial disputes, Taiwan, trade, access to sensitive technology like chips. The list goes on, but yet both sides are talking, both sides are engaging with one another. 
 
Last month you had that high profile meeting in Vienna between Jake Sullivan and Wang Yi, another top Chinese official, a meeting that was described at the time as being candid and constructive. 
 
It was also reported that the CIA director visited Beijing last month, a trip that only came to light publicly this month. And earlier this month in June, you had the U.S. Commerce Secretary, as well as a U.S. Trade Representative, have meetings with the Chinese Commerce Minister in the United States, and the latest form of engagement between the U.S. and China we're seeing now with this phone call between Qin Gang, the Foreign Minister of China, and the U.S. Secretary of State, setting the stage for Blinken's long anticipated visit to Beijing. Back to you. 
 
COREN: Yeah, as you say, Kristie, communication is key, which is why Anthony Blinken's trip to China is just going to be so very important. Kristie Lu Stout, joining us here in Hong Kong. Great to see you as always, thank you. 
 
Still ahead, a rare and deadly shooting at a Japanese military facility will have the latest developments in a live report from the region next. 
 
Plus, a father in Colombia described the moment his children were found after surviving more than a month in the jungle. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Japan's military says a cadet is in custody after opening fire on their unit during a training exercise, killing two and wounding another. 
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks is following the story from Seoul, South Korea and joins us. Paula, what other details are you learning? 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well Anna, what we've been hearing from the Self-Defense Forces is that they believe the suspected shooter is a cadet who joined the ground Self-Defense Force back in April. They have said that this happened about nine o'clock in the morning, Japan time, and the cadets fired towards other members of the unit during a drill. 
 
Now, as you've said, there were two that lost their lives. We know a 25-year old man and a 52-year old serviceman, both with the Moriama garrison, have been killed. and another 25-year old has been injured. The individual is in custody, officials say, but at this point they haven't publicized or given any motive as to this incident. 
 
Now we've heard from the chief of staff of the SDF, Yasunori Morishita, and he said he has launched an investigation adding, quote, "This kind of incident should never happen in an organization that handles weapons." 
 
Now gun crime as a whole is very rare in Japan itself. Last year, for example, there were just nine firearms incidents for the entire year, one of those, of course, being the very high profile assassination of the former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on the streets as he was giving a campaign speech. 
 
But usually any firearms incidents are either gang related or very rare indeed. There are the police, for example, the military who are allowed to have guns. But beyond that, the rules are extremely tight. Gun ownership is so low because it is so restrictive and so difficult to be able to get a gun. 
 
In this case, however, of course, it is slightly different because this is a situation where guns were present. It was a live fire drill at a unit, we understand, in Gifu Prefecture in the center of Japan. And unsurprisingly, we understand as well from officials that all of these live fire drills have now been suspended and canceled temporarily while they find out what happened and make sure this never happens again. Anna? 
 
COREN: Paula Hancocks, joining us from Seoul. Thank you so much for the update. 
 
Well the father of the children who survived a plane crash for more than a month in the Colombian jungle calls their rescue a miracle. All four are still recovering in hospital. 
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzobon has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: On Tuesday, the father of the indigenous children that were rescued last week in the Colombian Amazon rainforest after spending 40 days alone in the jungle sat down with CNN to recount how that encounter was after that experience and especially the flight on the military helicopter that took them out of the jungle last Friday. 
 
MANUEL RANOQUE, FATHER OF RESCUED CHILDREN (through translator): The moment we found the kids, we started to see thunder and lightning bolts. We left at the right moment. Ten minutes later, the helicopter could not have taken us. 
 
POZZEBON: Mr. Ranoque is the biological father of the two youngest children and the stepfather of the oldest two. His late wife, Magdalena Mucutuy, died in that fatal airplane crash on May the 1st. The children remain in medical observation in the Colombian Central Military Hospital here in Bogota, and they are receiving both psychological and physical support as they recover from that harrowing experience.
 
Meanwhile, the Colombian military forces have said that 70 commandos remain in the jungle to try to search and rescue Wilson, a canine unit that was lost in the search after making contact with the four children last week. 
 
For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Millions of people in India and Pakistan are hunkering down or evacuating ahead of a powerful cyclone's arrival. The storm has been churning in the Arabian Sea and is moving north. 
 
It's expected to make landfall near the India-Pakistan border on Thursday, bringing with it the triple threat of heavy rain, damaging wind and coastal storm surge. 
 <br>[03:30:00] 
 
The storm's outer bands were kicking up clouds of dust on Wednesday. One province in Pakistan says it expects to evacuate more than 70,000 people. 
 
Urban flooding is forecast for Pakistan's largest city, Karachi, where businesses and shopping malls are shutting their doors. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LT. GEN. INAM HAIDER, CHAIRMAN, PAKISTAN'S NATIONAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY (through translator): In view of the data we shared with the military formations on the ground, around 100,000 people in the locality have to be evacuated. The process is being carried out with great speed, and, God willing, will be completed by tomorrow evening, before the morning of June 15th. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: And in India's Gujarat state, about 8,000 people have been moved to safer ground. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): The situation near our house is very bad, and we have to escape from there. We are having no difficulties in staying in the relief camp and are getting food, shelter, water, bed, lights, and fans. Back at home, it felt like we would die. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: The heavy rain is also expected to trigger landslides and flash flooding across the region. 
 
An unprecedented drought is affecting the Panama Canal, prompting authorities to implement water-saving measures. Water levels in at least one reservoir are dropping, and are forecast to hit historic lows next month.
 
And the start of El Nino, which brings warmer than average temperatures, could make things worse. Surcharges and weight limits are being imposed on ships using the global trade route. And new draft restrictions could force ships to carry fewer goods. 
 
Still ahead here on CNN, looking for lawyers. Donald Trump's legal team in a state of flux, despite his arraignment in Miami, will explain what's making the process so difficult.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Well, Donald Trump is rallying supporters and raising money after his arrest and arraignment in the Mar-a-Lago documents case. 
 
He spoke at his Bedminster Golf Resort in New Jersey late Tuesday, calling the charges against him, fake and fabricated. And he promised that if he's re-elected, he will appoint a special prosecutor to go after Joe Biden. 
 
Trump pleaded not guilty to all 37 counts in Miami on Tuesday. He's accused of mishandling classified documents and conspiring with an aid to obstruct a federal investigation. 
 
One protester was arrested outside the federal courthouse after he jumped in front of Trump's motorcade. 
 
Trump's legal team in the classified documents case is in limbo, even as the federal proceedings against him are underway. 
 <br>[03:35:07]
 
The former president is still searching for a star attorney to take his case to trial. CNN's Brian Todd has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Appearing in court with the former president on Tuesday, attorneys Todd Blanch and Chris Kyes, two lawyers seen as well-respected, but maybe not the dream team Donald Trump seems to be looking for. 
 
NORM EISEN, FORMER OBAMA WHITE HOUSE ETHICS COUNSEL: What's missing on this team is a lead trial lawyer who is accustomed to standing up in front of Florida juries and leading the defense of high profile criminal cases. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Blanche is expected to be the lead attorney in the Mar-a-Lago documents case for now, but he's only been on Trump's legal team since April when he was hired in the Stormy Daniels hush money case in New York. 
 
CHRIS KYES, FORMER FLORIDA SOLICITOR GENERAL: We're going to fight it hard. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Chris Kyes is a former Florida Solicitor General who's closely tied to some of the state's top Republican politicians. He was brought on to handle the Mar-a-Lago documents case late last year, but reportedly had his role reduced fairly quickly by Team Trump. 
 
EISEN: I think he's having difficulties because he's a challenging client and just the turmoil in the team accounts for that. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Blanche and Kyes were tapped to appear with Trump in court on Tuesday after Trump spent most of Monday scrambling to add lawyers to his team, interviewing potential candidates at his Doral Resort outside Miami. 
 
In a sudden and unexpected move, two of his top attorneys in the Mar- a-Lago case, Jim Trusty and John Rally left the legal team last Friday. Trump said he was removing them, they said they resign. 
 
Last month, Tim Parlatore, an attorney who had played an important role on Trump's legal team in the documents case, quit. Parlatore told CNN it wasn't because of the case or the client, but because Trump aide Boris F. Stein, who's coordinating the legal team, undermined him. 
 
TIM PARLATORE, FORMER ATTORNEY FOR DONALD TRUMP: Had really done everything he could to try to block us, to prevent us from doing what we could to defend the president. 
 
He served as kind of a filter to prevent us from getting information to the client and getting information from the client. In my opinion, he was not very honest with us or with the client on certain things. 
 
TODD (voice-over): In response, a spokesperson for Trump told CNN, Parlatore's statements regarding current members of the legal team are unfounded and categorically false. In fighting and chaos in Trump's legal circles is nothing new,
 
 analysts say, and it's often due to a client who's notorious for not listening to legal advice. 
 
EISEN: You have a client who is very strong headed, who expects things from his lawyers that they cannot deliver, who after his many decades of entanglement with the legal system, often appears to believe he knows better than his lawyers. 
 
TODD (on-camera): Norm Eisen points out there are many potential pitfalls ahead for any attorney who represents Trump in any of these cases, including the possibility that the attorneys themselves might become the subject of prosecutorial attention, as two of Trump attorneys have been. 
 
One of his current lawyers, Evan Corcoran, and former Trump lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, who was indicted and served jail time. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Judge Aileen Cannon has been tapped to preside over Trump's trial, but since she was appointed by Trump, some Democrats have expressed concerns about her ability to be fair. 
 
I spoke last hour with civil rights attorney Areva Martin about Judge Cannon. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AREVA MARTIN, CIVIL RIGHTS ATTORNEY: So, I definitely have my concerns about her ability to be fair and to be unbiased with respect to the handling of this case. If she doesn't recuse herself, I hope that the lessons learned from the way she made rulings in the earlier matter related to the handling of these documents being reversed not once but twice by the conservative 11th Circuit Court of Appeals, has taught her that her job as a judge is not to make rulings favorable to Donald Trump simply because he appointed her, but to do her duties under the Constitution. 
 
And that would be to allow this case to move forward in a fair and impartial manner. But she does have, if she remains on this case, she will have a great deal of power, a power with respect to scheduling of when this case moves forward, a power with respect to the motions that will be filed and how those motions will be handled, how they will be ruled on. 
 
She will control to some degree the evidence that will be admitted during the trial process. We know there's a big question about the evidence. coming from Evan Corcoran, Trump's lawyer. Will she allow that evidence to be in or will she quash that evidence?
 
So there are some legitimate, I think, concerns about how she will handle this case if she does remain on the case as the judge. But I hope that she will remain true to her duties and obligations under the Constitution. 
 
COREN: And Areva, do you imagine the government pushing for her to recuse herself or the prosecutor to push for her to recuse herself from the case? 
 <br>[03:40:08]
 
Or would that cause more problems? 
 
MARTIN: Yeah, and to date, we've not seen any evidence that the prosecution of the Department of Justice is going to move for this judge to recuse herself.
 
I believe that when the Department of Justice convened the grand jury in Florida, they knew that there was a risk, there was a possibility, given the way that judges are assigned in that Florida district, that she could be one of the judges assigned to this case. It's a small district, and they knew that there were limited choices with respect to who might preside over this trial. 
 
So I think the Department of Justice has already factored in to the equation of trying Donald Trump in Florida that she could be the judge. And I think, like the rest of the American people, they are hoping that this judge will do her job, that she will not act as a partisan representative for Donald Trump, but she will act as an impartial jurist, which is her job under the Constitution. 
 
I believe that the Department of Justice believes that its case is so strong, based on the allegations outlined in the indictment, that this is a case where they can get a conviction no matter who is the judge. 
 
COREN: Areva, Donald Trump is struggling to find lawyers for his legal team. Why is it proving so problematic? 
 
MARTIN: And the track record, quite frankly, his track record, his track record of not paying his attorneys, his track record of not following the advice given by his various attorneys. And then you have the issue of his attorney.
 
So many of them, because of their representation of him, have themselves ended up being investigated by law enforcement agencies. Some have actually served time, been convicted like Michael Cohen. Others have had their bar license revoked, have been investigated by various bar associations throughout the country. 
 
So he has a horrific record as a client. And many lawyers, particularly those affiliated with large firms, those that have firms that have, you know, really stellar reputations in the legal community, don't want their firm's reputation to be tainted by an affiliation with Donald Trump. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Our thanks to attorney Areva Martin for her insightful analysis. 
 
Well, the former magazine columnist who successfully sued Donald Trump for defamation has gotten permission to seek more damages. 
 
Last month, E. Jean Carroll was awarded five million dollars when a jury found that comments Trump made about her were defamatory and that he had sexually abused her. Now a federal judge has agreed to allow Caroll to amend her original lawsuit to seek more damages following comments Trump made about her during a televised CNN Town Hall. 
 
The U.S. Federal Reserve is poised to make its announcement Wednesday on whether or not it will raise interest rates again. And many economists are predicting it won't. That would be the first time since March of last year that the Fed has held back. 
 
And as Mike Valerio reports from Los Angeles, it would be the cause all those earlier rate hikes appear to be working. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN NEWSOURCE NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): What was once a rapid rise in prices from online shopping to the shell- shock of buying eggs is now showing more signs of cooling, like a wildfire slowly contained. 
 
MARK HAMRICK, SR. ECONOMIC ANALYST, BANKRATE.COM: It does appear as if those dowsing of inflation fires, the efforts by the Federal Reserve, do appear to be working. 
 
VALERIO (voice-over): Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst from bankrate.com says after more than a year of historic interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve, those higher rates are helping the slow, painful price spikes. 
 
New numbers out from the Labor Department today show consumer prices up 4 percent for the year ending in May. That's way down from more than 9 percent inflation last June. 
 
HAMRICK: Consumers still have a right to be irritated by the current state of prices, we see food still up year over year. And as we know, going to the grocery store, there could be things like beef that feel like that's too expensive. Maybe we're gonna go to the chicken instead. 
 
VALERIO (voice-over): Gas prices are down broadly, but what we pay for electricity is still high. In terms of summer travel, hotel prices are climbing slower and flying is getting a little cheaper. 
 
HAMRICK: Compared to a year ago, airline fares are down, but there's a sense that they are still elevated. 
 
VALERIO (voice-over): The overall encouraging inflation news may give the Fed cover to skip raising interest rates again at its next meeting tomorrow. 
 
HAMRICK: Like a patient that needs to recuperate, I think Federal Reserve officials want to sort of stand back, make some observations about how the economy is handling all of that, which has been in some ways shocking. VALERIO (voice-over): In Los Angeles, I'm Mike Valerio. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN; Still to come, three deadly attacks have rocked the English city of Nottingham. Details of what we know about the incidents, that's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Tens of thousands of people are expected at Milan Cathedral today for Silvio Berlusconi's funeral. The former Italian Prime Minister died Monday at 86. 
 
Berlusconi built a multi-billion dollar business empire that included TV networks, department stores and football clubs before turning to politics in 1994. 
 
Mourners are leaving flags, flowers and other tributes as they pay their respects outside his villa north of Milan. 
 
Hundreds of people are feared dead in Nigeria after a boat they were traveling in capsized in the river. Authorities say the boat overturned after hitting a tree trunk and a team has been deployed to carry out an on-the-spot assessment of what happened. 
 
For more, let's go to CNN's Stephanie Busari live in Lagos, Nigeria. Stephanie, what are we learning about what took place? 
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN AFRICA SR. EDITOR: Rosemary, details are still emerging about this tragic accident that took place in aftermath of a wedding party. We're in the height of rainy season here in Nigeria and this community in north-central Nigeria is badly flooded and the roads not usable.
 
So guests -- some of the guests after the party decided to get on boats and unfortunately the boat hit a tree trunk as you said and capsized. Now many of these passengers would not have been wearing safety jackets and the boat certainly would have been overloaded. 
 
A local chief told us that there were about 300 passengers that got on that boat. And so we don't know exact numbers yet of how many people died in this accident, but around 53 people were rescued, this local chief told us. 
 
It's not known either if the bride and groom who celebrated their wedding were part of the passengers who got on the boat. 
 
You know, details are still emerging and we'll come back to you as we learn more, Rosemary. 
 
COREN: Of course. Stephanie, as you said, you know, over capacity, no doubt, with more than 300 people expected on that boat. But are boating accidents common in this part of the country? 
 
BUSARI: Sadly they are, and sometimes when communities are flooded, people do take to the waters. Many of them can't swim, many of them don't have the required safety equipment to get on the boats and they're often overloaded. Just last month in northern Nigeria, 15 people died when a similar boat capsized in another tragic accident, Rosemary. 
 
COREN: Stephanie Busari in Lagos, we appreciate the update. Thank you.
 <br>[03:49:58]
 
In the U.K., a 31 year old man has been arrested after three people were killed in the city of Nottingham. Two university students were found dead in one location and a man in his 50s was found dead in another. 
 
Police also say three people were injured when they were run down by a moving van. 
 
As CNN's Nada Bashir reports, police believe all the incidents are connected. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, the city of Nottingham in central England is in a state of shock in the wake of three separate attacks which police believe are connected. 
 
Officers were called to an incident in central Nottingham just after 4 a.m. on Tuesday after two people were found dead in the street. A third individual was also found dead on Tuesday morning in a separate location just over a mile away. 
 
The University of Nottingham has since confirmed that two of its students were killed. Separately, police were called to an incident nearby which left three injured after a van attempted to ram into pedestrians. 
 
Two people are said to have sustained minor injuries, while the third victim is confirmed to be in a critical condition in hospital. Take a listen to what one eyewitness had to say. 
 
UNKNOWN: (inaudible) A police car behind him, then quickened up, there was two people turning the corner, he went straight in to these two people. The woman went on the curb, the man went up in the air, it was such a bang. I wish I never saw it, it's really shaken me up. 
 
BASHIR: Now, according to Nottinghamshire Police, a 31-year-old man was arrested and remanded in custody on suspicion of murder shortly after the attacks took place. 
 
A large cordon was also quickly established at the scene of the attacks. But the investigation is still very much ongoing, and Nottinghamshire Police are appealing for any witnesses to come forward. In a statement, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak expressed his thanks to the
 
 emergency services involved in Tuesday's response and also expressed his condolences to the victims and their loved ones. 
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Stay with CNN, we'll be back after this short break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Remarkable sighting off the California coast over the weekend, up to 30 killer whales or orcas were spotted in Monterey Bay, splashing about in large groups. 
 
The head of the non-profit California Killer Whale Project called it extraordinary, but said there was no clear explanation why so many of them had gathered. Sightings have been on the rise in recent weeks with some reported nearly every day for the past week. 
 
A 76 year old Ecuador woman is back in hospital after a scene straight out of a horror movie. She was declared dead on Friday after a possible stroke and cardiopulmonary arrest. 
 
Her family held a wake just hours later but instead of knocking on heaven's door, the woman was still alive knocking on the coffin lid. 
 
Her son posted this video of the incident on social media. He immediately called 911, and the woman was taken back to the same hospital where she had been declared dead. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GILBERTO BARBERA, SON (through translator): Everything went down, like 20 people. And this man saw that she was breathing, needed oxygen, air, and would say, my son, and her hand. Everybody, nobody imagined it was her hitting the casket. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:55:08]
 
COREN: Ecuador's health ministry says the woman is now in intensive care. 
 
Author Cormac McCarthy, whose dark and violent visions of America were often tinged with hope, has died at the age of 89. McCarthy rose to fame late in life with his blockbuster coming-of-age novel "All the Pretty Horses." It was followed by several novels including "The Road," about a father and son's torturous trek through a post- apocalyptic world, and "No Country for Old Men," which the Coen Brothers made into an Oscar-winning movie. 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING) McCarthy's writing was so sparse yet intense, he often was compared to Hemingway and Faulkner, but he was a very private person who rarely gave interviews. 
 
In a rare one-on-one with Oprah Winfrey, McCarthy said, if you spend a lot of time thinking about how to write a book, you probably shouldn't be thinking about it, you probably should be doing it. 
 
A new song from The Beatles is due out this year thanks to artificial intelligence. Speaking on BBC Radio 4, Sir Paul McCartney revealed The Beatles' final record has been completed by using A.I. to remake the voices of late band members John Lennon and George Harrison. 
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
PAUL MCCARTNEY, MUSICIAN: So when we came to make what will be the last Beatles record, it was a demo that John had that we worked on. And we've just finished it up. It will be released this year. We were able to take John's voice and get it pure through this A.I. so that then we could mix the record as you would normally do. 
 
(END AUDIO CLIP)
 
COREN: McCartney says there's a good side and a scary side to A.I. and we'll just have to see where it leads. 
 
In just their sixth season as a franchise, the NHL's Vegas Golden Knights have won their first Stanley Cup title. They dominated the Florida Panthers yet again, winning nine to three in game five of the finals, taking the series four games to one. 
 
Vegas team captain Mark Stone had three goals in the game, first player to post a hat trick in a championship clinching victory since 1922. Congratulations to them. 
 
Well, thanks so much for your company. I'm Anna Coren in Hong Kong. CNN Newsroom continues with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)