Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Authorities continue their manhunt for the Suspect in the Maine Mass Shootings; Hospitals in Gaza face Shortage in Fuel; Residents Advised to Lock Doors and Stay Inside Their Homes as Manhunt for the Mass Shootings Suspect Continues; Former Chinese Premier Dies; Recovery Efforts Underway in Acapulco, Mexico after the Devastation of Hurricane Otis. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired October 27, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber, we're following two major stories on "CNN Newsroom." 
 
Israel is ramping up raids in Gaza as it prepares for the next stages in its war against Hamas. 
 
But we begin with an urgent manhunt for the suspect in two mass shootings in Maine. Law enforcement surrounded the suspect's last known address for hours on Thursday. Authorities were heard shouting, you're under arrest and come out with your hands up, though it appears the suspect wasn't there at the time. Investigators will be scouring other locations in the hours ahead. 
 
Now police are looking for this man, four-year-old Robert Card. He's considered armed and dangerous. He's charged with multiple counts of murder. Officials are telling residents in the areas around Lewiston, Maine to stay vigilant, remain inside and lock their doors as they search for Card. The suspect was seen carrying a high-powered assault- style rifle during the massacre. 
 
U.S. Senate Republican Susan Collins, who represents Maine, says she supports a ban on very high-capacity magazines but says that guns aren't necessarily the problem. Here she is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. SUSAN COLLINS (R-ME): We do have a second amendment in our country. Maine, I would point out, has one of the highest rates of gun ownership in the country and has a long heritage of responsible gun ownership. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: This is the deadliest mass shooting in the U.S. this year. It took place at two locations Wednesday evening, first a bowling alley and then a restaurant. CNN's Bryan Todd breaks down how the shootings and subsequent search unfolded. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COLONEL WILLIAM ROSS: He should be considered armed and dangerous. 
 
BRYAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): An intense manhunt underway in Maine for the shooter who went on a rampage Wednesday night, killing 18 people and injuring 13 others at two different locations. Hundreds of law enforcement personnel, by land, air, and even at sea, looking for the suspect. 
 
40-year-old Robert Card, an Army reservist who spent two weeks in a mental health facility this past summer and is still at large. 
 
ROSS: We believe this is someone that should not be approached. At approximately 6:56 p.m., the Auburn communication center received a 911 call of a male shooting in just in time or the spare time recreation center. 
 
Shortly after that at about 7:08 p.m. the communication center received multiple 911 calls about an active shooter inside of a Schemengees billiards. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Shortly after 8 P.M. officials had released a photo of the shooter and by 9:26 P.M. Lewiston police received a call identifying the suspect and then just before 10 P.M. police say they located his car. 
 
Now an entire community is left in fear being asked to shelter in place. Businesses are shut down and schools ordered closed through Friday. Witnesses left in shock. 
 
MEGHAN HUTCHINSON, DAUGHTER SURVIVED SHOOTING: She was grazed by a bullet. while we were running. 
 
ZOE LEVESQUE, SURVIVED SHOOTING: I never thought I'd grow up and get a bullet in my leg. And it's just like, why? Like, why do people do this? 
 
I was holding a weapon. I just booked it down the lane and I slid basically into where the pins are. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Others mourning the loss of family in another senseless shooting. 
 
LEROY WALKER, SON KILLED IN SHOOTING: When you get anything that happens like this, you hope you go empty and is just nothing, nothing you can do. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Many are asking, were warning signs missed? According to a National Guard spokesperson, the shooter was reported as behaving erratically at an Army training facility this past July. And sources say he made statements about hearing voices and wanting to shoot up a National Guard base. He was then transported to an Army hospital for medical evaluation. SEN. ANGUS KING (I-ME): And I'm sure there'll be a lot of review of
 
 this and a lot of analysis. Was there something missed? Was he deemed a danger to himself or someone else? 
 
TODD (on-camera): A law enforcement source tells CNN that investigators found a gun in a car connected to the suspect Robert Card, but it is unclear whether that gun was used in the shootings. Meanwhile, a former colleague of Card's who was in the U.S. Army Reserves with him told CNN that Card is a skilled outdoorsman and marksman and was one of the best shooters in their unit. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Bowdoin, Maine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[03:04:59]
 
BRUNHUBER: So as authorities continue searching for the suspect, they're still piecing together what happened at both shooting locations. Names of all the victims haven't been released yet as police contact family members. 
 
The mayor of Lewiston tells CNN that with a crime like this, it takes time. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR CARL SHELINE, LEWISTON, MAINE: In a large crime scene. It can take some time to understand everything, gather all the evidence, determine identity of victims. And yes, it can, you know, just the nature of what happened, it can take some time. And it is certainly unfortunate. 
 
I know that the Maine State Police and the Lewiston Police Department were certainly, you know, working extremely hard to not only investigate this crime, but get word out to families as quickly as possible. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Now, hours after the mass shooting in Lewiston, Maine, authorities found the suspect's car at a boat launch in a nearby town. And public records show the alleged gunman owned a small boat. Retired FBI Supervisory Special Agent Daniel Brunner spoke earlier with my colleague Paula Newton and he outlined what investigators will be looking for as they try to track down the suspect. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANIEL BRUNNER, FBI SUPERVISORY AGENT (RET.): Trying to get into his mind utilizing whether he was on social media or other methods of getting his, preparing his plan, he has a multitude of options that were at his disposal where he left his vehicle. He could have gotten into a second vehicle and he could be as far away as Florida at this time. He could have gotten into a boat and or he could have got on foot into
 
 the woods. I think the boat option going out into the Atlantic, I know the Coast Guard is patrolling. I think that is the least likely of the options because his smaller craft needs fuel. And he would have known this that he would have attracted attention of anybody getting for him obtaining fuel. 
 
So I think the most likely option based on what we're learning about the subject is that he is very adept to the rural area, the woods. He's very knowledgeable about these wood areas. So I think either him going out on foot at the -- at the boat dock area or taking the boat down river. to other locations where he had supplies set up. Eric Rudolph in 1998 was a five-year manhunt after he was put on the 10 most wanted, the Atlantic City bombing, excuse me, the Atlanta Olympic bombing, and then other medical facilities. 
 
And he was on the run for five years because of the same situation. He was familiar with the woods, he had setups, and he was able to stay hidden from law enforcement for over five years. So I think that is one of the most likely scenarios went from foot from that parking area or he took his craft down river. 
 
Now law enforcement is trying to get these leads together and once they establish a good lead, then they'll start focusing the search teams on that area. 
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: And I wanna get to the issue of leads in a moment, but you make the point that if this attack was well-planned out and it seems like it was, then it is likely that his escape may have been well-planned as well. 
 
BRUNNER: Absolutely, I think it did it one goes in the other he knew where he was going to two locations which were four miles apart. He knew that he had to travel 10 miles to the to the boat dock so everything seems to be very well thought out. I know there's a focus on his mental health issues but that doesn't take a pop away from the possibility that he had planned this out, he was prepared for this. He knew how to make entry, he knew how to conduct the shooting operation, the fact that he is very likely on the run, my gut would say that he is in those wooded areas right there because he's familiar with that. 
 
For him to travel by vehicle and to go to South Carolina and go to Florida where he is in unknown territory is the least likely of the scenarios. But what's most important is law enforcement and the FBI, HSI, all these agencies are going to look at every single lead, every possibility they're going to talk to their partner agencies in those divisions, Atlanta division, all the way up to 56 different FBI divisions across the country. 
 
Everyone is prepared for leads that may be coming out of the incident command center, which is set up there in Maine. If those leads come in, they're going to go rush it out. It doesn't matter what hour it is. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BRUNHUBER: The IDF announces the next phase of its war with Hamas, saying it's begun launching raids inside of Gaza ahead of a ground invasion, we'll have those details just ahead.
 
Plus, Gaza hospitals face critical shortages of the fuel that keeps them up and running. I'll ask a regional Oxfam manager about how they can stay open. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: Now for the latest on Israel's war against Hamas, which began nearly three weeks ago. Israel announced on Thursday how its military operations will unfold over the coming days with more limited raids into Gaza in preparation for its ground offensive. 
 
Military analysts say this tactic allows the IDF to locate Hamas fighters, destroy booby traps and gather intelligence. Israel claims scores of senior Hamas leaders have been killed since the October 7th massacre of 1,400 people in southern Israel. The IDF said an airstrike on Thursday killed a senior Hamas leader who was involved in planning the attacks. 
 
Amid the ongoing Israeli airstrikes, E.U. leaders are appealing for safe corridors to deliver aid to Gaza, where basic necessities are in short supply. 
 
CNN's Rafael Romo is live this hour from Tel Aviv. So Rafael, first, what can you tell us about some of the most recent fighting between Hamas and the IDF? 
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi Kim, good morning. Well, let me tell you the rhetoric is heating up at the end and as the attacks on Gaza intensify as well. And once again, the Israel Defense Forces conducted what they called a targeted raid using tanks in northern Gaza before withdrawing. And this is the third incursion that we know of, although if it was of limit, it was limited in scope just like the two others before.
 <br>[03:15:08]
 
In a televised news conference Thursday, an IDF spokesman said that Israel Defense Forces will continue ground race into Gaza in the coming days to prepare for the next stages in Israel's war against Hamas. 
 
And Kim, what have they accomplished, some people may ask. Well, among other things, Israeli forces claim to have killed the deputy head of the Hamas Intelligence Directorate, who they claimed was one of the masterminds of the October 7 terrorist attacks. 
 
The spokesman said the purpose of Israel's ground operations is to kill Hamas militants, lay the foundations for an all-out invasion and neutralize explosive devices as well as reconnaissance posts. Then let me tell you, Kim, we were in Ashkelon yesterday and we saw how Hamas continues to fire missiles into Israel. There were also several missiles here in Tel Aviv that were intercepted by Israel's Iron Dome air defense system. So, the fighting still continues here, Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Alright, and then Rafael, let's turn to the humanitarian situation in Gaza. I mean, many groups have called for a ceasefire to allow aid to be delivered to Palestinians. Any signs that might actually happen? 
 
ROMO: Yeah, and Kim, this is happening. The international community continues to urge restraint during a meeting. I can tell you this meeting in Brussels Thursday. European Union leaders called for pauses in the Israel-Hamas conflict to allow humanitarian aid to reach Gaza. They would like to open humanitarian corridors and what they called a continued rapid safe and unhindered humanitarian access to Gaza. It was interesting though that they stopped short of calling for a ceasefire, something that was previously ruled out by several European leaders. The Palestine Red Crescent Society said 12 aid trucks entered Gaza through the Rafah border, crossing with Egypt Thursday, carrying water, food, medicine and medical supplies as well, but no fuel this time no fuel it and this amount of aid has been previously described by E.U. officials can as not a drop in the bucket but a drop in the ocean considering that before the war about 100 trucks per day crossed into Gaza, Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, it gives a good perspective but thanks so much for that. Rafael Romo, I appreciate it. 
 
An Al Jazeera journalist has returned to work less than 24 hours after an Israeli airstrike killed his family in Gaza, his network Al Jazeera has said. The IDF says it was targeting Hamas infrastructure in the area where the man's family was sheltering. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz has more, but we just want to warn you, parts of her report are graphic. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A journalist, some called the Voice of Gaza, mourns over the body of his teenage son. 
 
They're taking their revenge by killing our children, he cries. 
 
Al Jazeera says its bureau chief in Gaza, Wael Al Dahdour, lost his wife, 15-year-old son, 7-year-old daughter and baby grandson, all killed in an Israeli airstrike, the network says. 
 
The reporter had moved his family south of Gaza City after an evacuation order by the IDF, believing it would keep them safe. 
 
This conflict is taking a severe toll on journalists, with at least 24 killed so far, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. Reporters are also facing threats, arrests and censorship. 
 
No one and nowhere in this enclave is spared, Palestinians say. Death and funerals are constant. Anguish and agony are on every corner. 
 
Every 10 minutes, a child is killed, Save the Children estimates. 
 
Anywhere else in the world, it is sons who bury their father, this man says. Why is it different in Gaza? Why do we have to bury our children before they're even grown? 
 
Families desperate to keep their little ones safe are taking refuge anywhere they can find. Packed U.N. shelters are turning people away. 
 
We can't live like this. We're 17 people living in a school classroom, this woman says. How long are we supposed to live like this? Tell us world, how long? 
 
Eeking out a living here is difficult and grim. Food, fuel, water, everything is running out. 
 <br>[03:20:04]
 
I don't even know what the point is of being here. She says, we're still terrified and we have nothing, no help. We can bear it. We're grownups. But how are these children supposed to handle this? 
 
There is no childhood left here for the more than one million kids now trapped in this hellscape. And no way, Gazans say, to keep the youngest safe. 
 
Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: The Palestinian Red Crescent says 12 aid trucks entered Gaza through the Rafah border crossing with Egypt on Thursday. They were carrying water, food and medical supplies but no fuel. Israel has been blocking deliveries of fuel altogether saying that Hamas would only divert it for military use. The hospital staff say they desperately need fuel to power generators. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. ATEF AL-KAHLOUT, DIRECTOR OF THE INDONESIAN HOSPITAL, GAZA (through translator): You know the importance of fuel. There is a huge shortage. We count the days, even the hours, in order to be able to continue our work. The hospital consumes approximately 2,000 liters of fuel daily. Recently the hospital stopped functioning, and if it weren't for God's mercy and the actions of the technical staff of engineers, a catastrophe would have befallen. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Talk about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza right now., we're bringing in Layla Barhoum. She's the Policy Advocacy and Communications Manager for Oxfam based in Iraq. Thank you so much for being here with us. 
 
So I wanna start with what we just saw there. Certainly limited options for hospitals trying to stay open in Gaza right now. LAYLA BARHOUM, OXFAM POLICY, ADVOCACY, AND COMMUNICATIONS MANAGER IN
 
 IRAQ: Yeah, the devastating images of the hospitals being crowded and are not able to be for their capacity is really devastating. We are seeing that doctors are struggling with the number of high injuries coming into the hospitals, the needed operations that need to take place, and all that is dependent on electricity, on fuel, and access to medical equipment and supplies. We have to always remember that hospitals also are taken as shelter for people who are displaced, who have lost their houses and this is where the situation is getting worse and because they have to ration and make sure that the user resources. 
 
The situation came to the point that they don't think as I have seen before and this is something that needs immediate intervention otherwise innocent lives will continue to be lost what for injuries for and that lacking medical attention. 
 
BRUNHUBER: The IDF says, you know, this is all just sort of a smoke screen by Hamas that Hamas actually has lots of fuel is just kind of hiding. Would you say that? 
 
BARHOUM: I mean, there is no way that we cannot say that fuel is not needed now. It's needed as much as before it was before the current cycle of conflict. Fuel was one of the things that used to come into Gaza before this cycle. It was needed and it was something that Gaza depended on from the international community support. 
 
So we are talking about something that used to go inside Gaza before this cycle, there are systems in place, there are U.N. agencies who are there to monitor the situation to make sure that fuel is going to where it should be going, which is for civilian purposes. And this is where the messages are coming strongly, is the needs are there and fuel is needed to make sure that institutions are there to monitor the situation. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Beyond the fuel situation, what is the status for most in Gaza right now? 
 
BARHOUM: Maybe I can start with the fact that many people in Gaza are emotionally still scared, frightened, emotionally tired, even physically tired. They are struggling every day to stay capable to provide for their own needs. The mass displacement is something that is continuing. Shelters are overcrowded by shelters, women's schools, and families are hosting each other. 
 
Every day we see more families losing their houses and families are struggling to provide food and water for their needs. Now rational resources, prioritizing children, people are always asking when this is going to be ending, is there going to be any ceasefire? And the answer is still not clear yet for them. 
 
Day by day they need to make sure there's bread and there's access to clean water. And these are commodities that are running out from the market. And it's dire more than before. And for Gaza situation, to use this word and to this extent or full meaning is something that we have doing now more than before. BRUNHUBER: Layla, as I mentioned before, some trucks carrying aid have
 
 made it through the border to Gaza. Is that making any difference right now? 
 
BARHOUM: I mean, any access to aid is very much needed, but we are talking about a situation where Gaza have more than 80 percent of its population being dependent on aid even before this period of conflict. And now what we are seeing is almost 2 percent of what is needed to enter Gaza. Before this cycle of conflict, Gaza used to get at least 100 trucks of aid and food and water. And now we are seeing a drop in the ocean that is not much going to cover the needs. We are now talking about the total population who are needed for humanitarian assistance and needs. 
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
And now we are talking also about the fact that aid is not sustainable, it's not fixed, it needs to be accurate to the needs but also needs to be regular and needs to be protection for citizens to be able to access this aid. This is not enough. It wasn't enough before. It's not enough now. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Now, many people in Gaza have more, you know, immediate fears, things like being, you know, possibly killed by an IDF strike, for example, but there are longer term fears as well, lack of clean water. Many aid agencies like yours are warning of a growing public health crisis, dehydration, disease and so on. 
 
BARHOUM: Yeah, I mean, indeed there are many factors contributing to a health crisis here. We are talking about lack of fuel and electricity, which means that water, sewage is not treated, it's being dumped and treated in the water and in the sea. 
 
We are talking about lack of access to clean water for hygiene. Already families and schools, families and hosted families are talking about the fact they cannot use water for hygiene purposes. A number of waterborne diseases might be spreading. Cholera, for example, might be a concern for families. 
 
And because you need to ration water, you want to drink it, you want to use it for hygiene, of course, the priority will always be for surviving. And now we're talking about wastewater treatment plants are not able to function, but water is not pumped out. This is a whole collapsing of the whole system. And there is waste all over the streets. There is no way for people to receive services like before. The focus now is staying alive, but also staying not to be killed from diseases at the same time. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, the needs are acute and desperate, certainly. I really appreciate your insights, Layla Barhoum. Thank you so much. 
 
The U.S. says it has carried out airstrikes on two facilities linked to Iran and its allies in eastern Syria. Two senior officials say the targets were used for storing weapons and ammunition in the area known as Abu Kamal. The facilities were reportedly used by Iran's Revolutionary Guard and
 
 its allied militias. The strikes came after a series of attacks on U.S. forces in the Middle East, which Washington says Tehran was involved in. U.S. defense secretary says the overnight operation wasn't related to the conflict in Gaza. 
 
Well residents are urged to shelter in place as authorities hunt for the suspect in Wednesday's mass shooting. Well, the latest on the search when we come back. 
 
Plus, what we're learning about some of the victims of the massacre in Maine. More details after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Residents around Lewiston, Maine are being told to lock their doors and stay inside as the manhunt for the suspect in two back-to-back mass shootings continues into another day. 
 
At least 18 people were killed and more than a dozen others were hurt in the rampage. Several agencies are searching for suspect Robert Card. He's a certified firearms instructor and a member of the U.S. Army Reserves. Law enforcement experts say Card's training and outdoor experience are making it more difficult to locate him. 
 
At least one person who was treated for a gunshot wound has been released from hospital. Families and friends of those killed in the massacre are trying to process the tragedy while mourning the loss of their loved ones. CNN's Jason Carroll has some of the victim's stories. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOV. JANET MILLS (D-ME): This city did not deserve this terrible assault on its citizens. on its peace of mind on its sense of security. No city does no state, no people. 
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The magnitude of what happened last night coming into focus as authorities removed the bodies of some of those who perished in the shooting at the Schemengees bar and grill restaurant. Police say of those who were killed, eight died at the bar, including Leroy Walker's son, Joseph. His father says his son died when he tried to stop the shooter. 
 
LEROY WALKER, SON DIED OF SHOOTING: My son actually, because he's manager of the bar and everything else, picked up a butcher knife and went after the gunman to try to stop him from killing other people. And that's when he shot my son to death, trying to save some more lives that he ended up losing his life. 
 
CARROLL (voice-over): 40-year-old Brian McFarlane also identified as one of the victims. His sister says he was deaf. And he was there for a regular Wednesday night gathering of members of the deaf community and a cornhole tournament. His sister, who was also deaf, says their loss is deeply felt from her family and the community. 
 
KERI BROOKS, BROTHER KILLED IN SHOOTING: I want people to know how big this has impacted the deaf community that you know, we've lost four community members, not only just Brian, but we've lost three other friends as well from this tragic incident in this community. It's a huge loss. 
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Minutes away from the bar, more victims and more tragedy. Police say seven were killed at Just-In-Time recreation center, a bowling alley in Lewiston, including 53 year old Trisha Asselin. Her brother says she was calling 911 when she was killed. He told CNN she wasn't going to run. She was going to try and help. 
 
Just-In-Time recreation released a statement which sums up the feelings of many in the community. There are no words to fix this or make it better. We are praying for everyone who has been affected by this horrific tragedy. We love you all and hold you close in our hearts. 
 
An unidentified employee of Bates College was one of 13 people injured during the mass shootings. In a statement, Bates president says that the employee is expected to make a full recovery, adding, no matter how many times something like this happens, I find myself at a loss for words and this time it happened so close to home. 
 
Some of the injured are being treated at Central Maine Health Care Hospital in Lewiston. 
 
MILLS: This is a dark day for Maine. I know it's hard for us to think about healing when our hearts are broken, but I want every person in Maine to know that we will heal together. 
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Jason Carroll, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: A Congressman from Maine has flipped his position on the assault weapons ban one day after the mass shooting there. Democratic representative Jared Golden says he now supports the ban. Golden is from Lewiston where the mass shooting occurred and says he feels like he let his community down. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JARED GOLDEN (D-ME): The time has now come for me to take responsibility for this failure which is why I now call on the United States Congress to ban assault rifles, like the one used by the sick perpetrator of this mass killing in my hometown. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:35:08]
 
BRUNHUBER: The mass shootings in the United States are all too common. According to the Gun Violence Archive, the United States has suppressed 560 such shootings so far this year. The agency defines a mass shooting as one in which at least four people are shot or killed in a single event. You can see here the agency lists 2021 as the most violent year in the past decade with 690 mass shootings. 
 
Israel lays out some of its future plans in Gaza after its forces carried out another brief raid. We'll have details on that just ahead. 
 
And China's top diplomat is making the rounds in Washington. We'll have more on his meetings with a top U.S. official, one coming up with President Joe Biden. That's just ahead. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. An update on Israel's war with Hamas. For the second straight day, the Israel Defense Forces carried out a ground raid into Gaza and then withdrew. The Israeli military says the new raid targeted Hamas infrastructure with strikes on buildings and open areas. The IDF released video of this targeted raid on northern Gaza on Thursday. Officials say the goal is to lay the groundwork for an all-out invasion. 
 
All right. Let's bring in CNN's Jim Bitterman live from Paris. So Jim, French President Emmanuel Macron among those trying to find diplomatic solutions here to help ease the suffering. So far it seems not that much success though. 
 
JIM BITTERMAN, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's exactly right, Kim. In fact, apparently there hasn't been much traction for President Macron's idea that there should be some kind of a coalition, anti-terrorism coalition put together from both the Western countries but also some of the Arab world countries participating the kind of force that the kind of coalition that we saw come together for fighting ISIS. 
 <br>[03:40:08]
 
But in this case, it doesn't seem too likely. In fact, he didn't get a really positive response from any of the leaders that he met with, and that included leaders in Israel, Jordan, Egypt, and in the Palestinian territory. So it may be a nonstarter, but just as a backup, President Macron has dispatched a ship to the Middle East as well as some aid for Gaza. The ship is the Tonnerre, which is a helicopter carrier, which could be used for any kind of evacuation. There's still 170 French for people of interest that the French would like to get out, 170 people, including 50 French citizens and other people who work for NGOs that like to get them out of Gaza. They could figure out a way to do that, and they could certainly evacuate them on the ship. 
 
The ship is also equipped with about 70 hospital beds, so it could be used for hospital relief as well because of the dire situation medically in Gaza. Kim?
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, and Jim, you've been actually on a similar ship to this. So take us through how they've been used historically and how this might compare. BITTERMAN: Well, this is exactly what the Taner, in fact, that was
 
 used off the coast of Libya. I was down there as they were launching helicopter missions toward Libya. And in fact that the huge ship has a landing craft that has barges on it, but it also can carry up to 13 tanks, as well as we understand an assault force of up to 900 men. 
 
We're not sure how it was dispatched, how it was configured when it was dispatched, but reports here are that in fact there was an assault force that was put on the ship before it left Tulum on its way to the Middle East. It'll be there in about four or five days. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Interesting details. All right. Thanks so much, Jim Bitterman. I Appreciate it.
 
Israeli officials say they have evidence Hamas used weapons supplied by North Korea in the October 7 attacks. They say North Korea also gave Hamas technology used to dig tunnels. CNN's Paula Hancocks reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This rocket-propelled grenade is likely from North Korea, used by Hamas during its October 7th attack in Israel, seen here in the hands of a militant in the back of a pickup truck during the attack. 
 
Arms experts point at first to the distinctive red stripe on the F-7 RPG. 
 
N.R. JENZEN-JONES, DIRECTOR, ARMAMENT RESEARCH SERVICES: What you really need to look for is the tip of the ammunition. There's the absence of the traditional point-initiating fuse there, and instead you can see that there's a cast piece of metal. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): It's not surprising to see North Korean weapons according to experts, but Beijing dismissed the claim as a quote, "groundless and false rumor" orchestrated by the United States. 
 
Pyongyang is known for being transactional and has long been willing to sell weapons to anyone who would pay. Its arms proliferation in the Middle East is well documented. 
 
JENZEN-JONES: North Korea's voice support for Palestinian independence for decades. They've supplied arms both directly but more commonly through Iran over the course of several decades. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): A senior official with the Joint Chiefs of Staff here in Seoul says that they have evidence of North Korea exporting RPGs and potentially other weapons to Hamas, either directly or indirectly, adding that they believe the coordination likely extends to tactical doctrine and training. 
 
The JCS citing a North Korean drill several years ago where they used paragliders to carry out a surprise attack on the Blue House, then the presidential office and making a link to the extensive network of Hamas tunnels known locally as the Gaza Metro. North Korea is also known to have helped Hezbollah, the Iran-backed armed group in Lebanon with its own tunnel network. 
 
SAMUEL RAMANI, ASSOCIATE FELLOW, ROYAL UNITED SERVICES INSTITUTE: We saw the North Koreans of course build those tunnels of their own, potentially in preparation for an attack on the South Korean border, so they wanted to impart that knowledge to Hezbollah. Hezbollah operatives have been training in North Korea since the 1980s. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): In a public briefing, South Korea's army chief of staff shared the military's assessment on Hamas' tunnels. 
 
PARK JEONG-HWAN, CHIEF OF STAFF, REPUBLIC OF KOREA ARMY (through translator): At least from the looks of the shape, size and technology level of Hamas' underground tunnels, there are many aspects that North Korea has either supported or been involved. 
 
HANCOCKS (on-camera): North Korea has not commented on any link with the tunnels in either Lebanon or Gaza. Pyongyang has simply denied that they have been providing weapons to Hamas. 
 
Paula Hancocks CNN Seoul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: The U.S. Secretary of State and China's top diplomat are meeting in Washington as concerns continue to grow over the Israel- Hamas war expanding. Antony Blinken said he's looking forward to having, quote, "constructive conversations with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi over his three-day visit." In a statement just released, the State Department says that during their meeting on Thursday, Blinken reiterated the U.S. will, quote, "continue to stand up for our interests and values and those of our allies and partners." Wang will also meet with national security advisor Jake Sullivan. 
 <br>[03:45:06]
 
Now the Chinese foreign minister is set to speak with President Joe Biden during his trip as well. CNN's Beijing bureau chief, Steven Jiang, is live for us in the Chinese capital with the latest. So Steven, take us through the meetings, the mood and the expectations. 
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: Yeah, Kim, we have not heard much detail from either side on what Wang Yi and Blinken talked about. And as you mentioned, he has more meetings coming up in D.C. But the key takeaway here is it's increasingly likely Chinese leader Xi Jinping is now going to the U.S. next month to attend the APEC summit and also meeting with President Biden there because the main part of, the main mission of Wang Yi's trip is widely seen as to pave the way for its leader to go to San Francisco next month as he hashes out all the final details with his U.S. counterparts. 
 
Now, the reason this is happening right now is not coincidental. Obviously, as we mentioned, global conflicts are growing and expanding. So there is some global expectation that the two superpowers need to put a floor on their free-falling relationship because a lot of these issues simply cannot be resolved or even addressed without them somehow seeing eye to eye on some of the issues. That, of course, includes the Gaza conflict. 
 
But also remember, there are domestic reasons here as well. Xi Jinping is still facing very strong economic headwinds, so he needs to show the domestic audience here he is capable of managing and recalibrating international relations, especially when it comes to this relationship with the U.S. That's why these meetings in D.C. are happening. Despite tensions, very much still remain high. The two militaries just released videos to accuse each other of conducting dangerous maneuvers in and above the South China Sea, putting other sides' warships and warplanes on a collision course. 
 
And then, of course, you have these hardened, targeted very much export control measures targeting China. So, at the end of the day, a lot of these moves are seen as tactical by analysts. Fundamentally, they say the Chinese leader -- his view on the U.S. remains quite dim, as he has put himself. The U.S. is out to get China, to contain China's rise and surprise Chinese interests. But at least right now, the two sides seem to agree there's this narrow window of opportunity between now and early next year when the U.S. presidential election season kicks off in earnest. They want to take advantage of this opportunity to stabilize or even improve this relationship. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Now, let's see if that happens. All right, Steven Jiang, thank you so much. 
 
And China's former premier Li Keqiang has died. According to Chinese state media, Li suffered a sudden heart attack early this morning. Li served as China's number two leader until last October, overseeing his country's economy for more than a decade. He was once viewed as a reform-minded contender for the country's top leadership role. Japanese officials sent their condolences, saying the former premier played an important role in Japan-China relations. Li was 68 years old. 
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he can see the end of the war in his country. Now this comes after new American and Danish defense support measures were announced on Thursday. U.S. Secretary of State says his country's security assistance package includes $150 million worth of arms and equipment. President Zelenskyy says Denmark's offering is over $500 million worth of tanks, drones and ammunition. 
 
U.S. National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby has blasted Russia for its continued invasion of Ukraine, saying Russia, quote, "continues to show no regard for the lives of soldiers." Here he is. 
 
JOHN KIRBY, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: Since the 11th of October, Russia has suffered significant losses in this offensive attempt of theirs, including at least 125 armored vehicles around Avdiivka and more than a battalion's worth of equipment. We expect more Russian attacks to come. 
 
This is a dynamic conflict and we need to remember that Russia still maintains some offensive capability and may be able to achieve some tactical gains in the coming months. To pursue that outcome in Avdiivka and elsewhere on the battlefield,
 
 Russia continues to show no regard for the lives of its soldiers. We believe they have suffered thousands of casualties in their effort to conduct this offensive. Some of them on the orders of their own leaders. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Now Kirby also said the U.S. has information that the Russian military is executing its own soldiers who refuse to follow orders. 
 
Alright, still to come. Recovery efforts are underway after Hurricane Otis slams into Acapulco as a powerful category 5 storm killing more than two dozen people. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: The U.S. economy defied expectations again in the face of stubborn inflation and high interest rates. Gross domestic product, or GDP, soared over the summer quarter to a 4.9 percent annualized rate. That's more than double the growth in the spring and faster than economists predicted. Now that strength isn't expected to continue as the economy faces soaring bond yields and the resumption of student loan repayments. 
 
A judge will hold a hearing Friday morning to determine if Ivanka Trump can be forced to testify in her father's civil fraud trial. A civil case brought by New York's attorney general accuses the former president, his sons and the Trump Organization of overstating its wealth for years on financial statements. Lawyers for her family and its businesses argue that Ivanka shouldn't have to take the stand since she was previously dismissed from the case. 
 
Recovery efforts are underway in Acapulco, Mexico, after Hurricane Otis caused extensive damage. Power is slowly being restored, but operations at the airport are still suspended and crews are working to clear debris from a landslide on a highway leading into the city. At least 27 people are dead and four others are missing after the powerful storm slammed into Mexico's Pacific coast. 
 
CNN's Gustavo Valdes reports. 
 <br>[03:55:07]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GUSTAVO VALDES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is typically what people come to Acapulco for. The nice beach, the nice surf, but right now it doesn't take long to see what happened after artists came by. You see all the debris, its plants, its palm trees, its metal, its brick. This is the front of those fancy hotels where people spend hundreds of
 
 dollars to come and enjoy some time off. It's completely ruined. Not only the front. Look up. Look at what happened to this building. You cannot even see any proof that anybody could have been living there. 
 
We have reports that people were actually in these buildings when the hurricane came, but you can see the danger they were in because of the damage that buildings like this have suffered after. And this is something that we see not only on these nice, expensive areas, the resort areas. 
 
They -- more poor parts of the city are also suffering. The people are telling us they are not getting help, they're not getting water, they're not getting food. 
 
We saw looting in some streets, in some stores people were coming out. In most cases they were just taking food, water, something to drink. There were some that took advantage of the situation and they walked away with big screen TVs, but mostly people were telling us they just needed something to get by. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: And that wraps this hour. I'm Kim Brunhuber. Our coverage continues with Max Foster, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)