Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: American Soldier Who Ran Into North Korea Heading To United States; Growing Humanitarian Crisis Amid Exodus From Region; Russia Shows New Video Of Black Sea Fleet Commander. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired September 28, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:32]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR:  -- around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM.
 
American soldier, Travis King, returning to the U.S., two months after he crossed into North Korea. What we know about his release and where things go from here.
 
Wagner troops back on the front lines. Why Ukraine believes former members of Russia's notorious mercenary group have now returned to the battlefield.
 
And the end of humans? New research suggests all mammals on Earth could be wiped out by the formation of a new supercontinent. We'll talk to the lead author of the report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Kim Brunhuber.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: The American soldier who sprinted into North Korea more than two months ago is on his way back to the U.S. And anytime now, he could get word that he's landed.
 
So, we're told Private Travis King will be taken immediately to an army medical center in San Antonio, Texas. According to a North Korean state media, he was expelled after an investigation.
 
U.S. officials say King's release came after intense diplomacy between multiple countries and stressed no concessions were made. King was already facing disciplinary action before his fateful dash into North Korea during a tour of the DMZ's joint security area. And now, further punishment could be imposed.
 
But a U.S. official says it's quite clear King is very happy to be on his way home.
 
That was unexpected release comes with a particular tense moment for both countries. CNN's Will Ripley explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): When U.S. Army Private Travis King made his daring dash across the DMZ in July, many wondered if North Korea would use him as a political pawn like past American prisoners.
 
His speedy release in just over two months, a surprise to many. Even more shocking, it came with no concessions, U.S. officials tell CNN. Calling his quick release, a result of intense diplomacy, after weeks of trying to break down diplomatic barriers and open a direct line of communication with North Korea.
 
The U.S. and North Korea have no formal diplomatic ties. Swedish diplomats in Pyongyang acted as intermediaries, sending word to Washington, the North Koreans were ready to release the soldier.
 
China allowed King to cross the border for a handover into American custody. A senior U.S. official telling CNN, King is in good health and good spirits as he makes his way home.
 
CLAUDINE GATES, MOTHER OF TRAVIS KING: I just want my son back. Get my son home.
 
RIPLEY: In the days and weeks since he disappeared, desperate pleas from Private King's family in Wisconsin.
 
JAQUEDA GATES, SISTER OF TRAVIS KING: We reach out to our mom and let them hear her voice. He -- you know, he's not the type that just disappeared.
 
RIPLEY: A phone call that finally came, the U.S. says. Adding, King is very much looking forward to being reunited with his family. A family statement expressing gratitude and asking for privacy.
 
King was the first active-duty soldier in more than four decades to hand himself over to the North Koreans. State media claimed, in August, King was running from inhuman maltreatment and racial discrimination within the U.S. Army, a message that played right into North Korea's long running anti-U.S. narrative.
 
Past prisoners served as props for Pyongyang's anti-U.S. propaganda. Paraded in front of state T.V. cameras, held for extended periods to gain concessions from the U.S. This time was different.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (INAUDIBLE)
 
RIPLEY: North Korean state media barely mentioned King during his two months in custody. His release came far faster than others who spent months or even years in North Korean captivity. Some only released with the help of former U.S. presidents like Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter.
 
Times have changed. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un is focusing on his friendship with Chinese President Xi Jinping, while deepening his military ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
 
King's quick release may be a sign, analysts say, the value of a U.S. detainee just isn't what it used to be. With U.S. relations at their lowest level in years.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Now, with CNN's Marc Stewart, who's covering this live from Beijing. So, Marc, we assume he's about to land shortly in the U.S. what happens next then?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Kim.
 
This survival that we are expecting to see in the hours ahead will likely be very well choreographed. It's something that the Department of Defense has done before.
 
Of course, the first prior where he is going to be both his physical and emotional health.
 <br>[02:05:04]
 
We heard one U.S. official saying that he will be treated by a talented and experienced team.
 
This facility that he's expected to be taken to in Texas, has a special department of defense program that helps people who have been held, who have been detained, basically, assimilate and reintegrate into everyday life that could be among his courses of action once he arrives back in the United States.
 
It's a very notable program. Brittney Griner went there. She, of course, is the basketball player, the female basketball player, who was held in Russia for a period of time.
 
Once those steps take place, it will allow the United States to then evaluate what happens next, particularly on the administrative front, considering that he was expected or originally was on his way to the United States several months ago, to undergo a potential disciplinary hearing, because of some of his past actions in South Korea. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: Interesting. And then, so, Marc, the question, Will, raise there in his piece why North Korea made the decision to return him so quickly, is that right when they said there that, American detainees, they aren't as valuable as they used to be?
 
STEWART: Well, I mean, if we listen to what some analysts have said, this particular individual, Private King was a low-ranking military figure.
 
So, for lack of better words, his value as far as being a political tool may not be as significant as someone perhaps of a higher rank. I think what is very notable, though, are the two different explanations that we are hearing. The United States saying his release came after an intense diplomatic effort, yet, North Korea is saying that this was an expulsion that came -- that took place after an investigation.
 
And of course, we heard a statement that North Korea released, saying that they were the words of Private King, saying that he made an illegal entry and that he was not treated well by the United States, I mean, this is a chance for North Korea, to make that statement to a broader audience. Again, the authenticity of that is not clear.
 
And then, finally, you know, this issue of concessions has come up over and over again and based off of the language that we heard from the United States government, it is, you know, that, that did not take place, and very, very strong words to say, no concessions were made, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. We watching for that arrival when it happens. Marc Stewart in Beijing. Thanks so much.
 
The fallout from the crisis in Nagorno-Karabakh is growing by the day. More than 53,000 people, including 17,000 children who fled the region into Armenia, as of Wednesday evening. Now that figure means nearly half of the region's population has left their ancestral homeland, with 1,000s more expected to follow.
 
The mass exodus has led to scenes like these lines of cars stretching as far as the eye can see along the Lachin corridor, the only road connecting the enclave to Armenia.
 
Now, the U.S.' senior officials met with Azerbaijan's president in Baku on Wednesday. Well, the president agreed to keep the corridor open and allow international monitors and humanitarian access to the region.
 
Meanwhile, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov warned Armenia against distancing itself from Moscow, and relying on the U.S.
 
CNN's Scott McLean has more on the humanitarian crisis from London.
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: As the exodus of ethnic Armenians from Nagorno Karabakh continues, there is plenty of concern about those still inside the territory.
 
The Red Cross says that aid is getting in, but the challenge now is getting injured people in urgent need of medical care out. It says the Lachin corridors so jammed up with people trying to leave that aid workers can't use it.
 
The U.S., the E.U., and Germany have all called for international observers to be allowed into Nagorno-Karabakh to ensure the fair treatment of the rapidly dwindling number of ethnic Armenians, who are still there.
 
The Azerbaijani president has promised that minority rights will be respected and the U.S. State Department says that Azerbaijan has agreed to allow international observers in those. So far, only aid workers have been able to gain access.
 
Last week, there were reports of locals burning documents to cover up any evidence they were part of the separatist government out of concern they could be persecuted now that Azerbaijan has regained control.
 
On Wednesday, Azerbaijani authorities announced they had arrested Ruben Vardanyan on the Armenian border as he was trying to flee. He is a wealthy businessman, the former state minister of the separatist government.
 
And he had Russian citizenship until he renounced it last year, and seem to be particularly disliked by Azerbaijani officials while he was in office.
 <br>[02:10:04]
 
So far, the only allegation against him is that he entered Azerbaijan illegally.
 
Scott McLean, CNN, London.
 
BRUNHUBER: Many ethnic Armenians from Nagorno-Karabakh say they have no hope of ever returning.
 
Gunfire rings out in the regional Capitol last week, signaling what many residents feared they were facing the beginning of the end of their autonomy. Within 24 hours Azerbaijan had defeated the separatist forces in the region and cemented its control.
 
Well, their victory forced the Karabakh armed forces to surrender, seemingly bringing to an end a conflict that last more than a century.
 
Azerbaijan's president insists that the rights of Karabakh-Armenians will be guaranteed. But Armenia's prime minister and international experts have repeatedly warned of the risk of ethnic cleansing.
 
For many residents, they would rather flee into exile than live under Baku's ruler. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIRANUSH SARGSYAN, JOURNALIST: During this week, there were some times you could hear shootings, but it was not like very common seen. Today, I didn't notice I was actually very busy. So, it's quite I think, now. But, of course, people have fears, especially, when they like feel like others like very close to city.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: She feel she will have to leave soon, but she's not ready yet.
 
Hundreds of former Wagner mercenaries have returned to the front lines in eastern Ukraine. That's from the Ukrainian military, which says they're now working for Russia's Defense Ministry suggesting Moscow is desperate for troops.
 
In Kyiv, President Zelensky, slamming Russia for launching a wave of strikes in the Kherson region and killing six people on Monday alone.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): These days, Russia has been shelling Kherson, Beryslav, and villages in Kherson region with particular brutality. Artillery guided bombs targeting houses, farms, ordinary shops, and infrastructure. It is a deliberate terror of the occupier.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile, Ukraine says Russia is pursuing a backup plan to deliver supplies to southern Ukraine is reportedly building a railway line to connect Mariupol and other occupied cities directly with Russia to send military and civilian supplies, bypassing the Crimean bridge.
 
Meantime, Russia is going out of its way to prove the commander of its Black Sea Fleet is alive and well. Ukraine claimed Admiral Viktor Sokolov was killed in a strike on the fleet's headquarters on Friday.
 
This Fred Pleitgen reports, Russia has released a second video in as many days reportedly showing the admiral back on the job.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Nearly a week after Ukraine claimed to have killed the commander of Russia's Black Sea Fleet with a cruise missile attack, now, another sign he may very well be alive after all.
 
Russian military T.V., showing Admiral Viktor Sokolov handing out medals to a navy soccer team. Although, CNN is unable to verify when the video was filmed.
 
The award ceremony had to be postponed for known reasons, a reporter asked Sokolov to comment.
 
No, it's postponed just because we were busy and had to push it back a few days, he answers.
 
As to reassure local residents after the missile strike, the admiral, in denial.
 
Nothing happened, he says. Life goes on.
 
The new clip comes just a day after the Russians released a video apparently showing Sokolov attending a top-level video conference call with the Russian defense minister, seemingly propped up by a pillow.
 
Russia still irate about the strike on the H.Q. The foreign ministry spokeswoman claiming, without evidence western involvement in the attack. There is not the slightest doubt that the attack was pre-planned using Western intelligence assets, NATO satellite equipment, reconnaissance aircraft, and was carried out at the instigation and in close coordination with the American and British intelligence services, she said.
 
Both the U.S. and the U.K. maintain, their militaries are in no way involved in the war in Ukraine.
 
Meanwhile, some residents in occupied Crimea are questioning how committed Russia is to their safety. After this video emerged purporting to show mostly women and children prevented from entering a bomb shelter during an air raid alert a few days ago.
 
Why did you kick us out? A woman asks.
 
I've been told the shelter is for employees only, the guard answers.
 
All kids, all people kicked out into the streets, she says.
 <br>[02:15:05]
 
Moscow trying to portray strength in the aftermath of the Black Sea Fleet H.Q. attack, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu filmed visiting a missile factory that is allegedly increasing its output.
 
But even videos released by the Russian military itself like this paratrooper unit shows Moscow's forces struggling to hold the line against the Ukrainian army on the battlefield, as Kyiv says its forces are the ones that have the momentum.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, eastern Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: And for more analysis, we're joined by Mick Ryan, a retired general of the Australian Army, and he's also the author of book, "War Transformed". And he is speaking with us from Kyiv.
 
Thanks so much for being here with us. So, I just want to start with what we saw there in Fred's package, and the question of Ukrainian momentum after that attack on the Black Sea Fleet headquarters. The reverberations still rumbling here.
 
MAJ. GEN. MICK RYAN, (RET.), AUTHOR, WAR TRANSFORMED: Yes, good -- it's good to be with you again.
 
These attacks on the Black Sea headquarters, Crimea, and also in Moscow, are part of a wider strategic strike campaign, which the Ukrainians use to complement the battlefield activities in the south, in the east, and to maintain momentum, whether it's on the battlefield or in the strategic sphere.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes. I want to ask you about another development Ukraine, saying former Wagner fighters rejoined the battle, one Ukrainian military spokesperson said, "These individuals are indeed among the most well-trained in the Russian army, but they will not become a game changer. Are they right?
 
RYAN: Now, I think the Ukrainians are right here. They are well- trained. But the Russians have other elite units, particularly, the airborne forces that they're using in the south.
 
So, the Wagner troops, I'm sure will be a welcome addition to the Russian forces wherever they employed, but they are not going to be a game changer. They are certainly no silver bullet for the Russian army.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. So, you're in Kyiv right now. I mean, this is, as I understand it, your third trip to Ukraine this year. So, I'd love to hear about what you are learning there. So, I want to start with this. You met with the Ukrainian ground forces head of training. What did -- what did they tell you?
 
RYAN: Well, I've certainly learned a lot over the last 18 months about what you need to train a soldier for modern battlefield conditions. And that's changing constantly. So, that connectivity between the battlefield and preparing people for it is very important. But so too, is the relationship with the number of NATO countries that are training Ukrainian soldiers on their soil.
 
So, you know, the big message is things are changing constantly, therefore, (INAUDIBLE) quickly as well.
 
BRUNHUBER: I spoke earlier of that railway line connecting some Russian occupied cities with Russia, which will help their military logistics. I mean, in many ways, this is a war of procurement, who can get their hands on the weapons and ammunition they need when they need them, and this is all in the context of dwindling supplies and weathering of support for Ukrainian aid here in the U.S., at least politically, Ukraine certainly facing headwinds on that front. What are they telling you?
 
RYAN: Well, it's certainly a war of industrial systems. And as we've seen, with shortages of artillery, ammunition, and other bits of equipment, the world really wasn't prepared for a large-scale war like this.
 
I mean, some parts of the U.S. industrial system are starting to expand productions, the Russians certainly are. But it's going to take some time for most countries to expand the production of munitions and equipment to meet the demands of this war. Just on the railway construction, I mean, the Russian military have always traditionally used railways for a large part of their logistics.
 
So, this will have a very large military imperative for the Russian military to complete this railway line.
 
BRUNHUBER: And finally, with drones and technology playing in the increasing part. I mean, you've been learning about Ukraine's digital transformation. What stood out to you there?
 
RYAN: Well, we've probably seen the most intense period of innovation and adaptation when it comes to drones and autonomous systems over the last 18 months. It's unprecedented, just the quantity and quality of drones being used by both sides.
 
But also, how they are connected into the larger warfighting systems that both sides use connecting them to artillery, to tanks, and to soldiers.
 
I mean, there's a lot to learn here for every other army and NATO. And I'm sure they'll be watching what the Ukrainians and what the Russians are doing closely, so we can evolve our own militaries.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, absolutely. Listen, it's great to connect with you there in Kyiv. Major General Mick Ryan, thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
RYAN: Thank you.
 
BRUNHUBER: Western countries are pushing back against Russia's bits rejoined The United Nations Human Rights Council.
 <br>[02:20:02]
 
Moscow was suspended from the group after its invasion of Ukraine, but it's now running for a seat on the council that's up for election next month. U.S. called Moscow's candidacy preposterous, as Russia is facing a long list of accusations over suspected human rights abuses in Ukraine.
 
Some NATO countries said the invasion should disqualify Moscow from membership in international bodies.
 
All right. So, ahead, a big day for Israel Supreme Court is hearing arguments on a new law that opponents say is meant solely to benefit Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
Plus, we know the very real, very immediate dangers of climate change. But scientists are also peering into the far future to see what humans could be facing millions of years from now. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: Germany is tightening its border security effective immediately to limit human trafficking. The country's interior minister made the announcement on Wednesday, explaining, police will carry out flexible checks along Germany's borders with Poland and the Czech Republic.
 
He says authorities from both neighboring countries support the move. It comes amid a surging number of asylum applications in Germany. Officials say there are more than 75 percent more applications from January to August this year than in the same period last year. Immigration has also been a hot topic as Germany nears regional elections.
 
Israel will be joining the U.S. visa waiver program. The Biden administration announced the move on Wednesday. Meaning, Israelis will soon be allowed to enter the U.S. without a visa and they can stay for up to 90 days. The same will apply to Americans traveling to Israel. A group of democratic U.S. senators have argued against the move based on how Palestinian Americans are treated when they travel to Israel.
 
And Israel's Supreme Court is set to convene in the next hour. It's hearing a challenge to new law, making it harder to declare a prime minister unfit for office.
 
CNN's Hadas Gold reports from Jerusalem.
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN POLITICS, MEDIA AND BUSINESS REPORTER: The case being heard in front of the Israeli Supreme Court on Thursday is one that could have the most far-reaching personal implications for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu because it could directly affect his ability to serve as leader of the Israeli government.
 
That's because the Court is hearing petitions against a law passed in March. It makes it much more difficult to remove a sitting prime minister from office by declaring them unfit to serve.
 
But many say that this law was passed specifically to benefit Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as he faces an ongoing corruption trial. Under this new law, the only way a prime minister can be removed from office is for physical or psychological reasons that the prime minister they themselves declare themselves unfit for office, or supermajority in the Cabinet, ratified by a supermajority in the Israeli parliament vote to remove the prime minister from office.
 
These are much higher levels, makes it much more -- much harder to remove a prime minister from office than what the previous system was, which is essentially the attorney general had rather wide latitude to declare a prime minister as unfit to serve.
 <br>[02:25:03]
 
But the petitioners in this case, they argue that this law was inappropriately passed because it was done. So, they argue to specifically benefit Benjamin Netanyahu, as he faces this ongoing corruption trial, charges of which he denies.
 
But supporters of this law said that if the Israeli Supreme Court annuls this law, that would be a danger to Israeli democracy, they say, because it will be essentially throwing out the millions of votes that people cast for Benjamin Netanyahu to be Prime Minister,
 
a decision in this case could come in within a matter of weeks. And it's only -- this case is only one of several blockbuster cases of being heard in front of the Israeli Supreme Court, most of them directly connected to Benjamin Netanyahu's government's plan to overhaul the Israeli judiciary.
 
Just a few weeks ago, the Israeli Supreme Court heard challenges to another law that was passed in July that severely limited the Supreme Court's ability to hold government actions if they deem unreasonable.
 
Hadas Gold, CNN, Jerusalem. BRUNHUBER: All right. We want to show you live pictures right now at funerals underway in northern Iraq, following Tuesday's deadly fire at a wedding celebration.
 
14 people have now been arrested in connection with the blaze. Authorities say the building didn't meet safety criteria and the ceiling collapsed after fireworks were set off. One survivor recalls a traumatic scene in the hall that was packed with 1,300 guests.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I saw my brother who works with me, open the door, and screamed for us to get out. The air conditioner exploded above our heads. The situation was indescribable. People were burning and screaming right before my eyes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Huge crowds attended funerals on Wednesday for some of the victims. At least 100 people were killed and 150 others were injured when flames broke out on Tuesday night.
 
But officials say the final death toll is yet to be determined. Expect to have results of the investigation within three days. The father of the groom tells CNN, he blames the halls owner for the disaster, because he says, there are no extinguishers or safety measures.
 
All right. Coming up, new climate models show us what the world could be like in 250 million years. We'll tell you what that mean for humankind.
 
Plus, for the second time this month Greek residents are struggling with a distraction from severe storms and flooding. We'll have details after the break. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:15]
 
BRUNHUBER: People in Greece have been suffering through a storm that's so severe, forecasters say it dropped several months of rain in less than 24 hours. This has caused flooding in central Greece, which is still reeling from the aftermath of another storm earlier this month. Fire services say it's moved three thousand people to safety since Tuesday. Others are sorting through belongings in homes that have been completely gutted. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BAFIA NOUTSAS, FARM WORKER (through translator): The village is a hundred percent destroyed. Nothing has been left standing. We are waiting for the state to come help people get rid of all of the things that have been destroyed, because if it rains again, the village fills with water, with all the things here, and it would have to be bulldozed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Other officials say heavy rain, hail, and thunderstorms are expected to continue at least through the coming hours. The British government's climate credentials are under intense scrutiny once again. They've greenlit the development of an enormous oil and gas field in the North Sea. Rosebank could produce five hundred million barrels of oil in its lifetime. 
 
Environmental groups call the decision a disaster for the planet, and they're pushing back on Prime Minister Rishi Sunak's claim that the oil field will bring greater energy security and lower costs. The UK has pledged to cut its net carbon emissions to zero by 2050. Now scientists aren't just looking at the myriad threats we humans face now, they're also looking into the distant future, and the prognosis appears fascinating, but bleak. 
 
Scientists at the University of Bristol, using supercomputer climate models to predict a scenario in 250 million years. And they posit that all the world's land masses will merge together into a supercontinent, and if that happens, extreme heat and other climatic changes could wipe out humans and other mammals as well. 
 
Alexander Farnsworth is a senior research associate at the University of Bristol, and is lead author of the supercontinent  paper, and he joins me from Bristol. Thanks so much for being here with us. This won't be the cheeriest conversation I'll have had on this program, but really appreciate having you here on this. So first, what exactly leads you to believe that the continents will get glued together like this?
 
ALEXANDER FARNSWORTH, SR. RESEARCH ASSOCIATE, UNIVERSITY OF BRISTOL: That's a great question. So, you know, we know from looking at the geological past. These, sort of, supercontinent formations have happened many, many times. You know, it's almost akin to, sort of, in a natural rhythm, the long term geological system, where these tectonic plates are coming together, and then moving apart, coming together, and then moving apart. Sort of, roughly, on around a four to hundred to six hundred million year time scale. 
 
So, we definitely know it's certainly happened in the past, so it's also going to happen in the future. And when this happens, you know, they have been very synonymous in the past with lots of mass extinctions as well. So we already knew just from predicting that this supercontinent formation will happen that it was probably not going to be a very hospitable place for many species. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Right, the last one was Pangea, right? So during the age of the dinosaurs? Which I think ended pretty well for them, right? So why will this upcoming one be so catastrophic for mammals?
 
FARNSWORTH: Yes, it is about three main processes, which all kind of combine at once to really make such a very extreme heat and humidity. The very first one, if we forget about what the sun is doing, what CO2 is doing in the atmosphere, even today. If we just reassembled all the continents into this sort of supercontinent, what you would end up doing is forming a continent right in the center of the tropics. And, you know, in the tropics, it is also very hot, very humid. We
 
 know that today. But, when we do this, you know, you increase land surface temperatures alone, just by this assembly, by about three times their sort of normal temperatures you get today. What you then add on top of that, the sort of increase in solar brightness, the amount of energy coming out of the sun. Again, we have a fairly good understanding that you're probably going to increase that by about two and a half percent, by about 250 million years in the future. 
 
And then, further to that, on top of that, we also then, because of the tectonic and geophysical reasons, when you get this sort of supercontinent formation you end up putting a lot more volcanism occurring which then puts more CO2 into the atmosphere. And of course, as you know, when CO2 rises into the atmosphere it also increases the amount of heat that stays within our atmosphere, and it has a big effect on the sort of land surface temperatures and of course that stretches out many species, especially mammals.
 
BRUNHUBER: Okay, so that sounds pretty toasty, pretty grim. But, as I understand it, 8 percent of that supercontinent's land would still be habitable for mammals. And we're a fairly adaptable, you know, group. So, we wouldn't be able to survive, you think?
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
FARNSWORTH: That's a great question, you know. When you have only 8 percent of that, sort of, land surface left, you're not only pushing a lot of mammals into that region, but lots of other types of species. So you're going to really increase competition between lots of different species. 
 
Some of which might perform better in this type of environment than mammals maybe. But of course, you're still going to have some specialists, you know. There will be some mammals who will be able to survive this, especially some that you can imagine like the Saharan Gerbil today, which is able to live in the Sahara. 
 
Those types of, maybe, very few specialists might be able to come out of this quite well. However, for the vast majority of mammals today, you know, the type of heat that's going to occur is well above the, sort of, upper physiological limits, what we call, of survivability for them. So what ends up dominating afterwards is anyone's question, really.
 
BRUNHUBER: That's the question. This is all very sobering, it puts everything in perspective. It really begs the question, you know, whether I really need to separate my recyclable and non-recyclable plastics. I mean, how did you feel when you discovered this? And what's the message here? I mean it certainly gives greater urgency to our mission to Mars, right?
 
FARNSWORTH: Yeah. Certainly in many ways, when we first got the results I was expecting it wasn't going to be a great place to live. But then, you know, we started digging into them. This is just looking at the climate, just the climate, the long term average weather was going to be very bad. If you then put on top the type of climate weather extremes that we've been experiencing almost akin to today with these heat domes, all of these ,sort of, weather processes will also be occurring in this sort of time period. 
 
So it's not going to be very nice, and, you know, it kind of begs the question, this Earth that we've kind of evolved through as the human species over the last million years or so, is, quite relatively, a cool time in climate. Now most of the climate in the past has been a lot hotter, and it looks like it will be in the future as well. So we should be making sure that we look after our planet as it is now, not forcing it out of this sort of cooler period that we've really thrived and dominated through. 
 
And if the future is as bleak as we might think it might be with this model, it does as you say put more precedence on trying to figure out where it might be more habitable for the human species. But again, when you look for these habitable planets, the James Webb Space Telescope has done some great work at looking at where these sort of so-called habitable zone planets might exist, and there might be oxygen, hydrogen, water vapor, which likely mean oceans on these planets. 
 
However, our own planet will still be within our own habitable zone in 250 million years. However, depending where the tectonics, and where the land mass is actually sitting, it can make the difference between a habitable world, as we have these fragmented continents today, versus a uninhabitable world, with a supercontinent in the tropics.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, gosh. I guess we don't have to worry too much about it. I am sure rogue AI or some zoonotic virus will wipe out all humans by then. But certainly a fascinating, if a grim discussion there, Alexander Farnsworth in Bristol, England. Thank you so much for being here with us, appreciate it. 
 
FARNSWORTH: Thank you.
 
BRUNHUBER: The shares of Chinese developer Evergrande have been suspended from trading in Hong Kong. There are growing fears over the real estate developer's ability to restructure its debt and avoid liquidation of its business. Evergrande had total liabilities of $320 billion at the end of June. 
 
Chinese policy have already launched, Chinese police rather have already launched a criminal investigation into the company. On Sunday they warned its restructuring plan may be in trouble because of a regulatory probe into one of its subsidiaries. Alright, still to come. Merriam-Webster adds hundreds of new words to its dictionary. Why some of them are goated, and others are just mid.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:41:10]
 
BRUNHUBER: An artist has taken a unique road towards recycling with the world's first food made from plastic waste. Have a look here, the designer made vanilla ice cream using flavoring derived from the same kind of plastic found in bottles. Bacteria break down the plastic into the same molecule found in natural vanilla. Called Guilty Flavors, the ice cream is a research project that's locked in a freezer, in London. 
 
Now it's not ready for human consumption, but there is hope it kick starts a debate about the looming global food crisis, and the urgent need to stop plastic pollution. The English language continues to evolve, and Merriam-Webster is adding new words to its dictionary to prove it. Now this year, the company has added nearly seven hundred words, acronyms, and phrases to the dictionary. 
 
And they include the phrase chef's kiss, meaning of course a gesture of satisfaction or approval. There is also rizz, a slang word for romantic appeal or charm, kind of like an abbreviation of charisma. Another new word is bussin, an African American slang term to describe something truly good, or delicious. And then there's beast mode, a phrase meaning an aggressive or energetic style adopted temporarily by someone in a competition. 
 
But of course, the list doesn't stop there. Honorable notable entries include simp, goated, jorts, girl boss, and thirst trap. I don't know what most of those mean. Alright, thanks for joining us, I'm Kim Brunhuber. WORLD SPORT is next. And we'll be back in 15 minutes with more news, please stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT) 
 <br>[03:00:00]