Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump Lashes Out After Court Appearance; Clashes Inside Al-Aqsa Mosque; Trump Speaks After Pleading Guilty For Felony Counts; Former U.S. President Pleads Not Guilty To 34 Felony Counts; Taiwan's President To Meet With U.S. House Speaker On Wednesday; French President And E.U. Chief To Meet With Xi In China. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired April 05, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:32]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome. I'm Paula Newton. Coming up right here on CNN NEWSROOM.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: With a local failed district attorney charging a former president of the United States for the first time in history on a basis that every single pundit and legal analyst said there is no case. There's no case.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NEWTON: Former U.S. President Donald Trump lashes out after pleading not guilty to 34 felony counts.
 
Israeli police clashed with Palestinians inside Jerusalem's al-Aqsa Mosque. We're live in Jerusalem with the latest.
 
And severe weather rips across the U.S. Midwest, bringing the threat of deadly tornadoes and widespread hail storms.
 
A defiant and defensive Donald Trump spoke to a roomful of supporters at his Mar-a-Lago residence just hours after he became the first current or former U.S. president to be charged criminally. Then arrested and arraigned. Trump spent much of the speech in fact on Tuesday night, airing his grievances and making false claims. But he also lashed out at the justice system, the judge and the district attorney who he called a criminal.
 
Trump began his day in New York where he pleaded not guilty to 34 felony criminal charges of falsifying business records in an historic and unprecedented court appearance. The former President heard the charges against him for the first time Tuesday. Prosecutors allege Trump sought to undermine the integrity of the 2016 election through a hush money scheme with payments to women who claimed they had extramarital affairs with him. Now the indictment says for all 34 accounts, Trump had the "intent to defraud and intend to commit another crime." Prosecutors alleged the unlawful plan to suppress negative information that would hurt his campaign, including an illegal payment of $130,000 to an adult film actress. 
 
Yes, I'm sure you're asking what comes next. Now, prosecutors say they expect to produce most of the discovery in the next 65 days. That's when Trump's team will learn whether details of this indictment. Trump's team has until early August then to file any motions and the prosecution must respond by mid-September. The next in-person hearing is set for December 4th.
 
CNN's Kristen Holmes was there when Trump addressed his supporters in Florida. She has more now from Mar-a-Lago.
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Former President Donald Trump given uncharacteristically short speech after his arraignment on his Mar-a-Lago club. He did talk about the New York case briefly. He attacked the district attorney there as well as the judge, but he spent more time talking about other investigations into him. He talks specifically about the Department of Justice's investigation into classified document handling at his Mar-a-Lago club.
 
Now, he had a crowd here full of supporters, everyone here was a -- what I would say is a mega fan. You saw a members of bikers for Trump. Members of club 45, as well as supportive lawmakers, allies, advisors, family members as well. Now I am told that after he made those remarks, he went up to the patio where he often eats dinner at Mar-a- Lago. And during his time there they actually started playing the J6 song that he had recorded with the J6 choir who were men that had been incarcerated for their alleged actions on January 6.
 
He did the Pledge of Allegiance the entire patio stood, and then he sit back down, sat back down and then continued eating dinner. Now I am told that he afterwards DJ'd with a laptop, something he is want to do when he is at his Mar-a-Lago club. So, clearly a very long day. He is now surrounded by some people who adore him the most. We obviously are just starting this process with this arraignment.
 
Something that we will be watching very closely, particularly as it pertains to his 2024 campaign.
 
Kristen Holmes, CNN, West Palm Beach, Florida.
 
NEWTON: Now, that was the atmosphere at Mar-a-Lago that Kristen just told us about and it was far different than the one inside the Manhattan criminal court where Trump was arraigned. CNN's Kara Scannell was there.
 
[02:05;07]
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: If you think about it, it was Trump went from essentially the old law office to the defense table. You know, in this courtroom, he entered the courtroom, you could hear a pin drop, it was so quiet just to the kind of historic moments that was really settling him on everyone, including it seemed the former president. He walked very slowly down the center aisle, was scanning the aisles that were filled with reporters, but taking this walk very slowly.
 
Added to kind of the weight of the moment and the anticipation in the room, you know, then he was at the defense table. It was actually off to a pretty quick start. Once the arraignment began, the judge asked him how he pled to those 34 counts of falsifying business records in the first degree of felony. And Trump said himself not guilty. You know, then they went on to deal with some other legal issues.
 
The prosecution also raising some of these questions about Trump's rhetoric. The threats, the verbal attacks that he's made against the judge and against the district attorney, Alvin Bragg. Trump's lawyer saying that he's been frustrated because the D.A.'s witnesses, including Michael Cohen have been on television in print stories talking about the case. They said that Trump felt like he couldn't say anything.
 
The judge said that the frustration did not justify these tweets. He asked everyone, both the prosecution witnesses and the former president to dial down their rhetoric, to not say anything that could be viewed as inciting violence or civil unrest. You know, interestingly, Trump was flanked by his legal team, including his new attorney Todd Blanche, who was added just yesterday to this legal team.
 
But he had no family members in the courtroom. The only other associate with another attorney, although he's not working on this case. Boris Epshteyn, but someone who's worked with Trump and as a close advisor. Otherwise, he was flanked by the Secret Service too as he exited the courtroom. And it was only after he left that we were all allowed to leave the building.
 
NEWTON: Joining me now to discuss all of the developments, including the split screen you just saw there is Caroline Heldman. She's professor of critical theory and social justice at Occidental College and Los Angeles. And from Palm Springs, California, John Phillips. KABC radio talk show host and political columnist for the Orange County Register.
 
Caroline, we will start with you. I mean, really, given the political atmosphere right now this was a bit of a tremor. And I think if voters in the United States are paying attention, they'll know -- they'll say, we know Trump's alleged crimes. We've heard this before. The details we've known for some time, the former president, here he is right back in the spotlight where you and I both know he really wants to be.
 
So, if you are a Democrat at this point in time, what do you do? Because this allows Donald Trump to once again be in the spotlight saying that this is a witch-hunt.
 
CAROLINE HELDMAN, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Well, it's definitely not a witch-hunt, right? It's 23 members of a grand jury who are a jury of his peers. They looked at the evidence. This was a five-year investigation. It's one of four investigations. I think it's probably the smallest, and it netted 34 felony charges. So, let's see where this goes. But Paula, to your point, 60 percent of Americans think that Trump should have been indicted.
 
But if you look at Republicans. This is actually making them love him more. About 75 percent of Republicans want to see him back in the White House. And when he tweeted last week, that he was probably going to be arrested when he put that on social media channels, his holes went up, he actually eclipsed DeSantis. So, what I think we're seeing is really Republicans like viewing this as more of a persecution complex. Even though at the end of the day, nobody's above the law.
 
NEWTON: Those may be the facts. But as we discuss the political landscape, you just pointed out that that look among Republicans, this really brings him once again, front and center in terms of this race. John, good to see you. I've seen you in a while. Do you agree, as well, that this could really strengthen Trump's position to become the Republican nominee?
 
JOHN PHILLIPS, KANC RADIO TALK SHOW HOST: Yes, it could because for some time, we were promised that there would be some big reveal from Alvin today. And there was really no new information. In fact, I think the people of New York City would be better served by Simon and Theodore than this guy. And you don't have to press me for that reaction. Look at what the Trump haters were saying about this all day.
 
Andrew McCabe, formerly of the FBI, along with John Bolton who used to work for Trump and had a nasty falling out. Both came out today and said that this was a weak case. Mitt Romney, who is probably the most hostile Republican to Donald Trump in the U.S. Senate put out a statement today saying that this was a political prosecution. And this will be what comes out of it.
 <br>[02:10:06]
 
This will be what Alvin Bragg is known for. Which up until now, Alvin Bragg was known for normalizing violent crime in New York City, where he knocked down 52 percent of felonies to misdemeanors. I don't see how this helps any candidate and a Republican primary, knocked Donald Trump off. And Donald Trump right now is polling within the margin of error of Joe Biden in a general election matchup. I don't see how this changes the or moves the needle at all.
 
NEWTON: Yes. It's been fascinating just to see all of this play out when for months and months and months, you really didn't even hear that much from the former president. I mean, Caroline, what do you do now if you're Joe Biden and you've not officially announced your candidacy, but we are told everything's set to go? How do you handle this?
 
HELDMAN: Well, I would definitely do exactly what he is doing, which is stay out of it. I would stay out of this. I would stay out of the Georgia investigation, which I think has more weight, at least what the public knows about it. It's a more serious case of election interference. And I would stay out of Jack Smith's DOJ investigations is two investigations. One into the fake election slates as well as the January 6 violent insurrection and Trump's involvement in that.
 
As well as his document mishandling and new revelations have come out about that, right? That it's possible that Donald Trump after he knew he illegally had documents sifted through them and decided to hold on to some. So, there's some damning new evidence. I would absolutely stay out of it. And I disagree a bit with John, I think it hurts Trump in the general, independents and Democrats are not jazzed about, you know, a potential felon in the White House.
 
I mean, I know Republicans are really glomming on to this idea that he's being persecuted. But at the end of the day, four independent investigations, let's see what happens in the next two years.
 
NEWTON: Yes. So, John, how about that? You know, the fact that if you look at the polling with the independence, it is true, in fact that that this is turning off the segment of the voting public that really counts in a general election.
 
PHILLIPS: Well, as I said before, he's pulling within the margin of error of Joe Biden, who has the power of incumbency. I saw some polls that show Ron DeSantis actually ahead of Joe Biden in a head-to-head matchup. It certainly hasn't hurt Donald Trump in any of his primary polling so far, that I have seen. And I want to go back to the question that you asked Caroline a moment ago, what does Joe Biden do?
 
Joe Biden better hope and pray that the Republicans don't try to play the same game. Because if suddenly it becomes OK to prosecute your political adversaries and try to put them in jail, instead of beating them in a fair election, then things could really get ugly. And they could get ugly for his son, they could get ugly for his family. And that's a road that this country really doesn't want to go down.
 
NEWTON: And you, John, you brought up a good point. I just want to ask both of you a last question. John, to you first. If you are Nikki Haley who's actually announced or the others in the Republican scene, what do you do? Because most of them have now come forward, and have in fact, backed Donald Trump when it comes to this charge? John, to you first.
 
PHILLIPS: If I'm Nikki Haley, I go on a Royal Caribbean cruise. Because there's nothing that you can do or say that's going to cut through this noise. So, don't even try.
 
NEWTON: Caroline, what do you think?
 
HELDMAN: I think they should all be supporting Donald Trump because you pay a price given his popularity with Republican Party. And just to clarify, John, when you break the law, you should be held accountable. Biden is not engaging in criminal acts. That's why he's not being investigated for such. And I would very much agree that we shouldn't make this a normal practice. But Donald Trump has never been a normal president.
 
He has bent and twisted the constitution and laws, you know, eight ways to Sunday. So, now, you know, let's, let's compare apples to apples here. NEWTON: And we've been comparing these kinds of political campaigns. I'll remind every --everyone now for the better part of eight years. And here we go again. Caroline Heldman and John Phillips, thanks so much for helping us out yet again to parse this politically. Appreciate it. 
 
PHILLIPS: Thank you.
 
NEWTON: Now, a slew of diplomatic meetings is scheduled to take place in the coming hours in Europe and Russia. The North Atlantic Council foreign ministers meeting is about to start in Brussels, Belgium. Finland is attending as NATO's newest member for the very first time since joining the alliance on Tuesday. Sweden has been invited to attend but their admission into NATO is right now being held up by both Turkey and Hungary.
 
Meantime, Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Belarusian counterpart Alexander Lukashenko are holding a bilateral meeting in Moscow Wednesday. And Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy is expected to visit Poland on Wednesday where he will meet with Polish government officials and Ukrainians living in that country.
 <br>[02:15:05]
 
For more now on this story, I am joined by Nada Bashir who has been following all of it for us from London. Nada, good to see you. I want to go first to that, you know, incredibly important NATO meeting here. Look, this is incredibly consequential because Finland's right now not only joins NATO, but also categorically it will mean that Russia will double its borders with NATO. At this point in time, what do you expect the reaction might be from Russia? Because they've already said that, look, we will react.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: Yes, absolutely. Moscow has long held that any expansion of the NATO alliance towards Russian territory would draw severe consequences. And in fact, the Kremlin has repeatedly cited the possibility of NATO expansion in any efforts by the Kremlin to justify its invasion of Ukraine. Now, of course, in response to that rising threat posed by Russia, we have seen Finland officially joining the alliance, becoming the 31st member.
 
This is a country which shares an 830-mile-long border with Russia now joining the NATO alliance. It's something that the NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg yesterday described as a historic step not only for Finland but before the Nordic Region and for the NATO alliance as a whole. But as anticipated, Moscow has not taken too kindly to this development saying that NATO is once again posing a threat to Russia security and national interest.
 
And in fact, we heard yesterday from the Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov saying to journalists, this would only aggravate the current state of affairs. Meanwhile, Russia's foreign ministry has also released a statement saying that Russia will now have to respond through technical military and other measures. They're not going into the finer details of what that would mean. And also, caveating. But this will depend on whether we begin to see NATO infrastructure, military hardware. And in particular, whether we begin to see NATO offensive weapons being deployed to Finland.
 
NEWTON: Yes. This is certainly interesting as well, when we dovetail into Zelenskyy's visit to Poland, right? And the Belarusian President visiting Putin in Moscow, both really trying to bolster their flanks, if you will, showing some force there with their allies. I mean, in terms of this juncture, in this conflict between Ukraine and Russia, what do you think both sides are trying to do there?
 
BASHIR: Well, clearly, these are two key allies for both nations. Belarus, in fact, one of Russia's few allies in its invasion of Ukraine, it was one of the key players in helping Russia to actually launch its invasion of Ukraine territorially back in February of last year. We've heard from Belarus's President, Alexander Lukashenko. He said that last week, he had intensified talks with President Putin with a particular focus on the deployment of tactical and strategic nuclear weapons from Moscow to Belarus.
 
And this is something that Alexander Lukashenko has been asking President Putin for for a while now. He claims that Belarus needs these weapons in order to defend itself from what he alleges to be with no evidence of an attempt by Ukraine's Western allies to launch a coup against him. And he has in particular called up Poland on this one. He alleges that those Western allies of Ukraine are attempting to invade Belarus.
 
Again, baseless allegations through Polish territory. Now, Poland of course, on the other hand, a key ally of Ukraine, a key ally to President Zelenskyy. And of course, we are expecting to see President Zelenskyy in Warsaw today meeting with his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda to talk about those bilateral relations. And on Monday the Polish government confirmed that it has already transferred fighter jets from Poland to Ukraine as part of its continued effort to support the counter offensive against the Russian Armed Forces. Paula?
 
NEWTON: Nada, I appreciate you keeping us abreast of all the developments on those three key meetings at this hour. Really appreciate it.
 
Now Meantime, Ukraine is denying Russian claims that it is last Bakhmut and says fierce fighting is ongoing for control of that eastern city. The Ukrainian soldier also tells CNN that the high ground to the west of the city remains firmly in Ukrainian control.
 
Meantime, the Ukrainian military says it repelled more than 45 attacks in the Donetsk region in the past day or so. With about 20 of them in and around Bakhmut. The Ukrainian military also says that Russians launched 17 Iranian-made drones against Ukraine during the past day, and that Russian offensive actions in the Donetsk area did not succeed.
 
American journalist Evan Gershkovich was able to meet with his lawyers on Tuesday. That was the first time since being arrested in Russia last week on espionage charges. That's according to his employer, the Wall Street Journal. And it says he's in good health and grateful for the outpouring of support from all over the world. The Wall Street Journal and the White House was denied the charges against him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:20:04]
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: We're going to continue to call for the release of Evan Gershkovich. As I said, these charges are ridiculous. Evan is not a spy. Evan has never been a spy. Evan has never worked for the U.S. government. And he is an independent journalist employed by the Wall Street Journal as you all know. This is a -- this is a case that is a priority for this president.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Two U.S. officials tell CNN that the Biden administration is preparing to declare Gershkovich's -- Gershkovich as being wrongfully detained. Now that move will trigger new U.S. government resources to work towards his release.
 
OK. Still to come for us. Another round of severe weather set to lash the U.S. Midwest with the region still reeling you'll remember from tornadoes and storms that have already hit. We'll have the latest forecast.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: An intense clash between Israeli police and Palestinians inside Jerusalem's revered al-Aqsa Mosque has escalated into a confrontation between Israel and Gaza. CNN's Hadas Gold is in Jerusalem for us this hour. Hadas, you know, very tense hours I'm sure still ahead. How did this all start? And is there still a threat of more violent clashes to come?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Paula. I mean dramatic scenes, dramatic and violent scenes at the holy sites behind me. You can see just to give a sense of where this all took place. Well, behind me is the area known as the al-Aqsa Mosque compound Haram al- Sharif and to Jews known as the Temple Mount. It's the third holiest site for Muslims and it's the holy site for Jews.
 
Over here you see the Golden Dome of the Rock, but over here to the side with the black roof. This is actually al-Aqsa Mosque itself. And that is where these violent confrontations took place. Now, there's been several nights now where Palestinian worshippers have been staying within the mosque itself. And we've had a few instances of police clearing them out. But last night it got violent. Keep in mind the context of when this is where this is happening.
 
It's been already a very tense and violent period. We've been expecting some sort of clashes in the Old City at the holy sites. And today is supposed to be the evening of Passover, a Jewish holiday. So. there were expectations of some sort of clashes. But I have to say that the violence and the aggression we saw overnight into this morning, I think that was a bit unexpected. Now, Israeli police say that they entered the mosque itself after they say several law- breaking use.
 
And mask agitators brought into the mask -- into the mosque fireworks sticks and stones. Locked the -- locks its doors from the inside with obstacles and fortifications at the entrance. And we're seeing footage both from police and from social media of Israeli forces entering the mosque itself, fireworks being fired at them within the mosque and they're responding with stun grenades and rubber bullets we understand. Now, Israeli police say that they detained 353 people from inside and around the mosque.
 <br>[02:25:03]
 
That is a very, very high number of people. The Palestinian Red Crescent saying 12 were injured inside and outside the mosque, including three who were transferred into hospital. Police say one of their officers were injured. Now, we're seeing images, not only of the clashes and the hundreds of arrests, but also of the damages to the mosque itself. And to keep in mind, what a holy site this is for Muslims, and this is the holy month of Ramadan.
 
So incredibly, tensions are very high. Now, give you the context also. Israeli police even entering the mosque. Even stepping foot into the mosque is seen as incredibly provocative and offensive. But then to have them engaging in this way with worshipers within the mosque, that is considered something that is far and beyond which is why we're here in condemnations worldwide because what happens at Alaska mosque at this holy site for Muslims has reverberations across the world.
 
And we're already hearing condemnations from the likes of Egypt and Saudi Arabia, and especially from Jordan, which is where the walk for the traditional holy custodians of the site Jordan -- its walk is Jordanian and they have condemned what is saying -- that saying that Israeli police were desecrating a holy site and assaulting worshippers, and they're calling on the Arab and Islamic world to put an end to these attacks.
 
Now, of course, again, what happens in Jerusalem does not stay in Jerusalem because then soon after these clashes happened overnight, at least nine rockets were fired from Gaza into Israel. And now we haven't heard any reports of any injuries. But we do know of at least one rocket that fell on a factory while workers were inside. The Israeli military responding with their airstrikes and that they're targeting Hamas militant locations.
 
We haven't received any sort of claims or responsibility for these rockets yet. But Hamas has already issued statements condemning the assault. And so right now, I have to say it's actually quite calm. It's tense, calm right now on the compound behind me. We also know that Jewish visitors who are allowed to go up during specified hours have been up on the compound this morning.
 
Again, it's a very tense calm, but we will have to see what will happen in the ensuing hours whether there will be further clashes or even further activity coming out of Gaza. Paula?
 
NEWTON: We will hang on to what you say is calm right now, especially as you said, a holy time for both those of the Jewish faith and Muslims there. Thanks so much for all that context. Really appreciate it, Hadas.
 
Now, here in the United States meantime. More than 60 million people are under some level of severe weather threat through the night. States in the Midwest and South are at risk of dangerous tornadoes. On Tuesday, there were more than 100 reports of hail and five reports of preliminary tornadoes. This, you're looking at it right now, the damage after a tornado with up to 185 kilometer an hour winds hit the city of Kelowna and Illinois.
 
Emergency officials are urging residents to stay aware of vital weather alerts. CNN Meteorologist Britley Ritz has more on the severe weather threat. I mean, really so terrifying for so many people living under this. I know -- I have family members at times. And if I see the alert, I'm constantly texting them. Do you know what's happening? And the fact that the same areas are getting hit just within a few days of each other.
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes. We've seemed to be stuck in a rut in this pattern as that jet stream really sets up and in the same areas, Paula. Thankfully, the tornado watches have expired. However, that doesn't mean that the tornado threat is gone. We still have that isolated opportunity. We have to keep that in mind, especially through the overnight hours. A lot of these people probably asleep at this point in time.
 
So, it's really vital to have these weather alert systems up and going. Make sure that you have some way of waking up and getting to your safe spot. We do have severe thunderstorm watches in place until about 4:00 or 5:00 central time for parts of Iowa back into parts of Missouri and Kansas. Some of these areas still under severe thunderstorm warnings. This area highlighted in orange, that's the warning box, Independence, Kansas next in line.
 
You'll see that dark red, heavy rain, strong winds. Talking about producing 75-mile per hour wind gusts and large hail. Speaking of hail, some areas in parts of Iowa like Davenport which is right there on the Mississippi River, four inches in diameter. And unfortunately, that threat for severe weather will once a carry on into your Wednesday from Detroit back down into Memphis, these areas highlighted in orange where we're most vulnerable for tornado threat for Wednesday, and then large hail and damaging winds.
 
Those are some of our bigger concerns timing here. Notice that lines really starting to move into Chicago, St. Louis, about 7:00 central time in the morning. Pushing into the Ohio Valley in the Great Lakes around noon. Eastern time about -- well, let's say 2:00, 3:00. That's when we really start to get the heating of the day and that's fuel for the storm. So unfortunately, that threat continues on through the afternoon.
 
Early evening hours as well and then finally starting to taper back once we move into Thursday as it pushes into the eastern coastline. Paula?
 <br>[02:30:04]
 
NEWTON: Yes, Britley Ritz, thanks so much for that update, appreciate it. A six-year-old child is among the dead following an avalanche in the Indian Himalayas on Tuesday. At least seven people were killed when the avalanche hit the mountain pass. 23 tours were dug out alive from under the snow that's according to officials. Who already say another five or six vehicles and about 20 to 30 tourists may still be buried under the snow. However, search and rescue efforts had to be called off due to inclement weather. Still ahead for us Donald Trump is pleading not guilty to all criminal charges what the former president is saying about the Manhattan district attorney and the judge involved in the case.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
NEWTON: And welcome back. You are watching CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Paula Newton. More now on the top story this hour. Former U.S. President Donald Trump is condemning the criminal charges against him following his historic arraignment in Manhattan courtroom. Speaking to his supporters in Florida just hours ago, a defiant Trump claimed this is just an attempt to derail his candidacy for 2024. He also said the only crime he's quote, committed is to fearlessly defend the nation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: As it turns out, virtually everybody that has looked at this case, including rhinos, and even hardcore Democrats say there is no crime and that it should never have been brought. Never have been brought, everybody. Even people that aren't big fans have said if they said this is not the right thing to do. It's an insult to our country as the world is already laughing at us.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Now, earlier in the day, Trump appeared in New York courts where he pleaded not guilty to all 34 felony counts. The charges stemmed from an investigation into a 2016 hush money payment scheme to adult film star Stormy Daniels. And here is what Manhattan's District Attorney Alvin Bragg said when he outlined the felony charges against the former president listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVIN BRAGG, MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY: Under New York State Law is a felony to falsify business records with intent to defraud an intent to conceal another crime. That is exactly what this case is about. 34 false statements made to cover up other crimes. The defendant repeatedly made false statements on New York business records. He also caused others to make false statements. To defend that claim that he was paying Michael Cohen for legal services performed in 2017, this simply was not true. Why did Donald Trump repeatedly make these false statements?
 <br>[02:35:31]
 
The evidence will show that he did so to cover up crimes relating to the 2016 election. Donald Trump, executives at the publishing company, American Media Incorporated, Mr. Cohen and others agreed in 2015, to a catch and kill scheme. That is a scheme to buy and suppress negative information to help Mr. Trump's chance of winning the election. As part of this scheme, Donald Trump and others made three payments to people who claim to have negative information about Mr. Trump. One of the three people that they paid to keep quiet was a woman named Stormy Daniels.
 
Less than two weeks before the presidential election, Michael Cohen, wired $130,000 to Stormy Daniels lawyer, the $130,000 wire payment exceeded the federal campaign contribution cap. And the false statements in our MIS books violated New York Law. That is why Mr. Trump made false statements about his payments to Mr. Cohen. He could not simply say that the payments were a reimbursement for Mr. Cohen's payments to see any -- to stormy Daniels. To do so, to make that true statement would have been to admit a crime.
 
So, instead, Mr. Trump said that he was paying Mr. Cohen for fictitious legal services in 2017. To cover up actual crime committed the prior year. And in order to get Michael Cohen his money back, they planned one last false statement. In order to complete the scheme, they plan to mischaracterize the repayments to Mr. Cohen. Its income to the New York State tax authorities. The conduct I just described, and that which was charged by the Grand Jury is felony criminal conduct in New York state.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: So, that was Manhattan district attorney Alvin Bragg. Areva Martin is a Civil Rights attorney and Legal Affairs commentator, and she joins me now from Los Angeles. I feel like I need to say woof. That was quite an intense 18 hours that we've all just gone through together a Reba, I am interested in your take legally. But first, given what we just heard Alvin Bragg say all day long in terms of spelling out what is in this indictment and what the President is charged with. I want you to hear now from Carrie Cordero, you will be familiar with her. She's a former Justice Department official and on our air. This was her reaction when she saw the case listen.
 
Sorry, apparently, we don't have that clip. So, basically, what she said is that this was completely underwhelming, that she believes that she knows the facts of this case -- the facts of this case have been known for a long time, and that she was surprised that at this moment, Alvin Bragg would choose to, in fact, continue with these charges Areva, I know you've been following this case, closely. What are your impressions here?
 
AREVA MARTIN, CIVIL RIGHTS ATTORNEY: I'm still shocked when I hear experts and analysts make those kinds of statements. Alvin Bragg was very clear, he was elected as the District Attorney for Manhattan. And as the district attorney, he has a job to follow the facts and the law and if they lead him to an indictment or to present evidence to a grand jury that leads to an indictment. That is his job, and all of this bickering over, you know, whether he should have been the first to indict or whether the Department of Justice should have been the first to indict.
 
This is not a numbers game, this is not a contest. Alvin Bragg had a job to do and he did that job. Now, what we did learn from Cy Vance, who had the job prior to Alvin Bragg is that the Justice Department told him to cease and desist with respect to its investigation. So, it's really misleading to suggest that all these other entities root that the same set of facts and decided not to move forward. What we know from Cy Vance is that Bill Barr's Justice Department told him to shut it down, to not continue in his investigation.
 <br>[02:40:05]
 
That's a very different statement than the facts don't lead to a potential indictment. So, I applaud Mr. Bragg or district attorney Bragg for having the courage to step up and to charge Donald Trump or to at least take this case and presented to a grand jury. And to do what the Justice Department quite frankly has not done, even though it has been investigating Donald Trump for the January 6 insurrection now going on two years. So, again, I think the right decision was made by Mr. Bragg to present this case to the grand jury, and the grand jury returned with an indictment. And we have to respect that process.
 
NEWTON: In terms of how the Former President reacted to all of this. I mean, alarmingly, he definitely said things about the DEA, the Judge, families, what could the legal fallout from that be?
 
MARTIN: Well, clearly, this is right out of Donald Trump's playbook, attack everyone deflecting blame and never accept personal responsibility. What he couldn't be doing is tainting the jury pool, he knows that he has millions of people that follow him on his social media platform through social. He knows that his comments are picked up by other news outlets and he knows that this information has been filtered to millions and millions of people. So, my impression is that he is trying to taint the jury pool. He's gaslighting of the American people when he says that everyone looked at this case and decided there was nothing there that is a complete falsehood.
 
It's a fabrication and it's the kind of gaslighting that we've seen from Donald Trump. He's attacked the district attorney, he's brought in his wife. That's what he does, he shoots below the belt, and he makes personal attacks, rather than sticking to the facts. And the facts are that this is the only president in the history of this country that has faced felony indictment. This is the only president in the history of this country that's been now twice impeach and facing felony indictment while being investigated by at least three other agencies.
 
NEWTON: Yes, and but yet, he's still the leading candidate right now to be the Republican nominee in 2024. I mean, I have to ask you, so many people think that this will, you know, basically propel him into an even stronger campaign to become the nominee? And how do you think at this point, voters will take it? Because we have to be clear, right? Even if he's convicted of any of these crimes, he can still run for president. He can still be president again. MARTIN: Yes, unfortunately, the founding fathers just never anticipated someone like Donald Trump running and winning the presidency of the United States. So, you're absolutely correct. The Constitution does not forbid him from running for president and even being president while indicted and even being convicted of felonies. The reality is, Trump has become a cult like figure to millions in the Republican Party. And you're right, no matter what he does, or what happens, no matter, you know, what conviction may come as a result of this indictment or others. There are some in the party that are going to stand by him. But that doesn't make him right. And it doesn't make him above the law. And it doesn't give him the privilege to be able to engage in conduct that if anyone else engaged in they would be held accountable.
 
NEWTON: Yes. And through all of this, just to remind people that what we talked about today was Donald Trump's future, not the future of Americans and the issues that they have on the table right now, regardless of which campaign is ongoing. Martin, good to see you again. Thanks so much.
 
MARTIN: Thank you, Paula.
 
NEWTON: Now, supporters and opponents of Donald Trump were outside the courthouse in New York on Tuesday, and here's what they had to say about what these proceedings mean to them, listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is the Trump's team. This is the Trump's (INAUDIBLE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They want them to arrest him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's just hard to Donald Trump, the Republican nomination. He's going to get reelected I'm telling you. Every once in a while, I do cringe on some other things he says. But under Donald Trump, we had a great economy and we won at war. I'm a one DeSantis supporter but now I support Donald Trump.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's just about accountability. We want Trump to have a fair trial. You know, we just want him to be treated like any other American.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Trump.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you think it will happen impossible 2024 election?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, I think in a positive way that I think like Trump's kind of nailed it. Like, I love DeSantis but I don't think he even has a chance to get Trump because people are really fired up about this. Like, why has this happened? Yes, like they don't see the merit and everything that's going on.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Politically, motivated thing and for an ex- president, its wrong. Ex President because my opinion should be treated with respect. Whatever party they belong.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Whether you like him or hate him?
 <br>[02:45:07]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This country was better on economy. We were saved, the first president in 40 years and we never had a war. And I could go on and on. Is he perfect? No. Is he God? No, but I'll tell you one thing, he backed the blue, we were safe. And everything was so much better.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a nice feeling to see some justice finally starting to happen. But at the same time, it kind of feels like it's the beginning of the or the tip of the iceberg.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think this is going to be an incredible moment in American history. I just think that it's -- I think that people are going to start to realize what is actually happened over the past eight years. And there were -- and I think the entire country is going to step back into itself.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Interesting to hear from all of them straight ahead for us. Historic meetings, the U.S. House speaker and Taiwan's President are set to meet in California in the coming hours, angering China and further straining already tense relations.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: So, Taiwan's President is poised to meet with the U.S. House Speaker in the coming hours. Historic meeting which is already drawing warnings and condemnation from China. Now, President Tsai Ing-wen, arrived in Los Angeles a short time ago head of the talks with Kevin McCarthy. They are expected to meet at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library Wednesday afternoon as part of the Taiwanese leaders visit to diplomatic allies in the Americas. Now, Beijing has been criticizing the trip and says it quote, resolutely opposes this meeting with McCarthy. CNN's Mark Stewart is following these developments for us from Tokyo. Mark, really good to see you. And have you weigh in on this story. Now, China, of course objecting to this. It's a reflex, right? This is what they would normally do. But is there any indication that they will act on this opposition?
 
MARK STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, Paula, the strong words, the strong statements that we are hearing from China very much are part of a script, part of a storyline that we see so often. But I was thinking back in history, if we look at controversial meetings with Taiwanese leadership. For example, when Nancy Pelosi paid a visit to Taiwan, immediately after we saw China implement a big military force of drill, if you will, along the island. So, that is something that certainly could happen as far as what it would mean with diplomatic talks with the U.S. and China.
 
I mean, right now things are strained. Things have not been resolved, especially since the spy balloon, the suspected spy balloon shoot down that we saw earlier in the year. But this is certainly a meeting a gathering that China is going to be less than thrilled about. First of all, let's just look at this symbolism of all of this. This is happening at the Reagan Presidential Library. This is not some nondescript conference room. This is a place that has been the backdrop for a U.S. Presidential debate. We've also been able to look at the guest list the invite list.
 <br>[02:50:16]
 
So, in addition to House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, we will expect to see representative Pete Aguilar of California, a leading Democrat, as well as members of the Select Committee on China. So, it's a very significant gathering of people but there is a serious weight on all of this for Taiwan. Taiwan is trying to strengthen its diplomatic bonds around the world. Of course, the U.S. has shown its support, even though it does support the One China policy. But there is a lot at stake, we just saw it. Taiwan's President Tsai in Central America. As you know, Paula, it was just a few weeks ago that Honduras cut diplomatic ties with Taiwan and established them with China.
 
NEWTON: Yes, a lot to think about there, especially in the coming hours as we will get that photo opportunity of the two of the meeting. And I have to ask you as well about Emmanuel Macron, also making his way to Asia meeting, in fact, in China and hoping that he can continue what he hopes will be a charm offensive. He wants to try and convince China that it is time to try and weigh in on this Ukraine conflict and have Putin reconsider. I'm curious to get your opinion on what makes Emmanuel Macron and Europe in general right now, thinks that this meeting could be consequential could actually lead anywhere.
 
STEWART: Well, you use the phrase charm offensive, this is a presidential visit from one head of state to China. And by nature, it should perhaps not be so confrontational. In fact, we heard from a French presidential source who gave some indication that this is not necessarily going to be a case of Emmanuel Macron pointing fingers at China saying, this is where you're wrong, this is where you've strayed away from peaceful potential with directing Russia, on China. Expect to see it to be perhaps a little bit more friendly or I mean, there's going to be a state dinner.
 
So, by nature, perhaps, that will cool the tone the atmosphere and allow for some thoughtful discussions. We know that President Biden, we are now reporting President Biden and President Macron had a conversation about this. So, perhaps charm offensive is what's going to be at play. And then too, we have a lot of economic issues at stake between China and really all of Europe. Those are two big economies that really need a boost and are at a really pivotal time. So, sometimes economic interest also have an impact seeping into diplomacy. Paula.
 
NEWTON: Absolutely, both China and Europe realize what's at stake there with that economic relationship in the years to come. Mark Stewart, thanks so much for being on top of these stories for us, appreciate it. Now, a history making single and a blockbuster for BTS is Jimin will tell you why like crazy is like you know, the biggest thing in music. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:55:07]
 
NEWTON: A new photograph of Britain's King Charles and Camilla has been released alongside the official invitation for the upcoming coronation. Now, it refers to Camilla as Queen Camilla, and that's for the very first time marking to change from the Queen Consort, title she's been using. The coronation service will take place at Westminster Abbey in London on May the sixth in front of the 2,000 guests. Buckingham Palace also announced that eight pages of honor have been chosen to attend the coronation, including of course, King Charles' grandson and heir to the throne Prince George. Now, if you haven't already heard the latest huge hit song by BTS is Jimin you have to be one of the few on the planet listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON (voiceover): He's Like Crazy single debuted at number one on Billboard's Hot 100 making him the first South Korean solo artists to ever top that chart. Billboard says Jimin's song has been streamed more than 10 million times. I can't believe that has been downloaded or listened to on a C.D. more than a quarter million times. The members of the phenomenally popular boy band BTS have been pursuing solo projects now for almost a year.
 
RYAN GOSLING, MALE ARTIST: Hi, Barbie.
 
MARGOT ROBBIE, FEMALE ARTIST: Hi, Ken.
 
NEWTON (voiceover): OK, say hello to your new Barbie and Ken. A teaser trailer for the new live action movie was released Tuesday it shows Margot Robbie as the iconic and versatile doll from toymaker Mattel. Ryan Gosling plays the famous boyfriend Ken. Now, the star-studded cast also features Dua Lipa and Issa Rae. As other Barbies, Simu Liu as a rival Ken and Will Ferrell, yes, Will Ferrell as a toy executive. The movie is directed by Greta Gerwig and it's released by Warner Brothers which is owned by CNN's parent company. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON (on camera): That looks like something else, Barbie is set to open in theatres in July. OK, thanks for watching, I'm Paul Newton. More CNN NEWSROOM is straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)