Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Donald Trump Addresses CPAC 2023; Republican Lauren Boebert and Kari Lake Addresses CPAC 2023; Former Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro Addresses CPAC 2023; Trump Asks Court to Suppress Pence's Testimony; 2024 Presidential Campaign of Marianne Williamson has Started; Biden to Honor Legendary 1965 Civil Rights March; Another Norfolk Southern Train Derailment Happened in Springfield Ohio; Residents of East Palestine Visits Water Treatment Facility; Hazardous Material-Filled Explosion in Maryland; Russia's War on Ukraine; China Convenes Annual Congress. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired March 05, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:00]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  Welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. Ahead on "CNN Newsroom".
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  And for those who have been wronged and betrayed, I am your retribution. I am your retribution.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Fiery words from Donald Trump in front of a very supportive crowd. We'll bring you the message he and other Republicans brought to CPAC.
 
Ohio once again facing a train derailment. Details plus the latest from the toxic spill in East Palestine is just ahead.
 
And later, one Ukrainian mother's journey to America, with her children to escape the horrors of war. The remarkable path she took, the stranger who took her in, and her message to those she was forced to leave behind.
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from CNN Center, this is "CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber."
 
BRUNHUBER:  An adoring crowd at the Conservative Political Action Conference gives Former U.S. President Donald Trump a rapturous reception and momentum for his 2024 presidential campaign. Trump said, he wouldn't drop out of the presidential race if he was indicted in the state or federal investigations he faces. He also promised retribution against Democrats and establishment Republicans. Here he is. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  In 2016, I declared, I am your voice. Today, I add, I am your warrior. I am your justice. And for those who have been wronged and betrayed, I am your retribution. I am your retribution.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  A straw poll at the conference found 62 percent want him to be the Republican nominee, only 20 percent want Florida Governor Ron DeSantis. CNN's Kristen Holmes has more on conference.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Former President Trump talking to a very enthusiastic crowd here at CPAC. He pitched himself for another trip to the Oval Office. He talked about how he wanted to obliterate the deep state. He took on the establishment, particularly Republicans. Take a listen.
 
TRUMP:  We're not going back to people that want to destroy our great social security system, even some in our own party, I wonder who that might be. That want to raise the minimum age of social security to 70, 75 or even 80 in some cases. And that are out to cut Medicare to a level that it will no longer be recognizable.
 
HOLMES:  Now, that was a thinly veiled jab at Florida Governor Ron DeSantis who, while he was in Congress, suggested changes to those social security and Medicare programs, this is something that Trump has gone after him a number of times over. Now, the Florida Governor has not entered the 2024 presidential race, but he is seen as Trump's most formidable opponent, should he decide to run for president.
 
But it was interesting, as we walked around during this event for the last several days, this used to be the premiere event for conservatives. Instead, it seems now like the Trump show. Almost all of the speakers were Trump-centric, they were supporters, they're people who wanted to see him in office in 2024.
 
And it showcased really the deep divide within the Republican Party, particularly as we noted, so many of these potential 2024 hopefuls decided to skip the event this year. And it really set up what is expected to be a very ugly Republican primary. Kristen Holmes, National Harbor, Maryland.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Republican Colorado Representative Lauren Boebert addressed the crowd at the conference, Saturday, as did the failed Republican candidate for Arizona governor, Kari Lake, who repeated familiar false claims about election fraud. Here she is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARI LAKE, FORMER REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOR ARIZONA GOVERNOR:  They stole an election in broad daylight, right front of us. And then they dared us to do something about it. They dared us to do something.
 
LAUREN BOEBERT, U.S. HOUSE REPUBLICAN:  We had just begun winning. We took back the House and I'm excited about our slim majority, because that gave us leverage to actually do something. Leverage to govern as we campaign rather than looking at that "R" next to our name and thinking it stands for "rollover."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  And it's not just American conservatives at CPAC. Brazil's former president also spoke at the conference on Saturday. Jair Bolsonaro made comments that cast doubt on the election he lost. He also told the crowd that he sees as leading Brazil as a calling for him and that he believes his job isn't yet complete. Here he is.
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAIR BOLSONARO, FORMER BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  And also, for the mission of being the president of Brazil for one term. But I feel deep inside that this mission is not over.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Saturday was the final day of the conference.
 
Meantime, sources tell CNN that Trump's legal team is seeking to block testimony from Mike Pence on matters covered by executive privilege in the criminal investigation into efforts to overturn Trump's 2020 election loss. The Justice Department has asked a judge to compel the former vice president's testimony. Friday's request from the Trump team was is submitted secretly in a sealed proceeding and it's unclear how long it will take to unfold. But CNN legal commentator Ely Honig doubts it will be successful. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN LEGAL COMMENTATOR:  I think it's very much of a long shot. I think Donald Trump has a steep, rocky, uphill climb, legally. He's invoking executive privilege, meaning, I had conversations when I was president with one of my key advisers, my vice president, that needs to remain secret, but he's got two big problems. One, Donald Trump is now a former president. While it's not impossible for a former president to invoke executive privilege, the courts have said that it's much more difficult for a former president to invoke executive privilege than a sitting president, so that's number one.
 
The other problem Donald Trump has is, this is a criminal grand jury subpoena. And usually, courts are going to honor criminal grand jury subpoenas. And typically, with some exceptions, by typically executive privilege does not prevail over a grand jury subpoena. So, it's a shot in the dark here. I think it's got a chance of succeeding, but only a very long shot chance here.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BRUNHUBER:  And Pence has already announced plans to fight his subpoena. He says he's shielded by the constitution's speech or debate clause.
 
American author, Marianne Williamson, has announced that she will once again run for president in 2024. The Democrat launched her campaign on Saturday, setting up a primary challenge to President Joe Biden who is widely expected to seek re-election. Williamson told supporters that she's running to fight economic and social injustices. Here she is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARIANNE WILLIAMSON, U.S. DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT CANDIDATE:  We know that this country is plagued by many challenges now, not the least of which is hatred and division, which is greater than any of us have experienced in our national life. And it is our job to create a vision of justice and love that is so powerful that it will override the forces of hatred and injustice and fear that were upheld.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  You may remember Williamson preached a similar message to voters during her previous campaign in 2020, which failed to gain traction.
 
And later today, President Biden will commemorate a singular moment in civil rights history when he travels to Selma, Alabama, to mark the anniversary of Bloody Sunday. It was there in 1965 that riot police attacked peaceful marchers as they crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge into town. Today, that bridge has become a potent symbol of the civil rights legacy. This will be Biden's third visit to Selma for the anniversary and his first as president.
 
One month after a toxic train derailment in East Palestine, Ohio, there's been another Norfolk Southern derailment in the state. It happened Saturday in Springfield. According to Norfolk Southern, there was no injuries reported and no hazardous materials involved. One witness described what he saw.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAWN HEATON, WITNESS:  I was watching it and people were just sitting there and you could, kind of, see it, like, off the tracks, kicking up gravel and stuff. But then once the cars started coming off and collapsing on each other, it was just time to go. And that's when I take off and you just, kind of, see everybody going backwards down the road and getting out of there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The road near the scene of the accident was closed. Company teams are headed to the site to begin the cleanup. Local emergency management officials asked residents within a thousand feet of derailment to shelter in place out of an abundance of caution, and that has now been lifted after officials determined there was no risk to public health. Residents of East Palestine were invited to tour their town's water treatment plant on Saturday. Plant employees explained where the city's wells were located and answered questions about the water system. According to local officials, and Ohio Governor Mike DeWine's office, all samples of East Palestine's water to date have shown no contaminants associated with the train derailment. An estimated 2.7 million gallons of wastewater have been removed from the derailment site.
 
Firefighters in the U.S. have been putting out a blaze involving hazardous materials along a Maryland Highway. A tanker truck crashed on U.S. route 15 in Frederick, Saturday, killing the driver and sparking a fire that engulfed the truck and damaged nearby homes and vehicles. Officials say, the truck was carrying flammable liquids, but none of the liquids entered the city's sewer system.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF TOM COE, FREDERICK COUNTY FIRE AND RESCUE:  The Maryland Department of the Environment, the Frederick County Division of Fire and Rescue Hazardous Materials Team and the Frederick City of Department of Public Works are on the scene and have confirmed that the hazardous materials involved in the incident are contained. And they were contained prior to reaching Carroll Creek.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Authorities plan to be on the lookout for any environmental effects from this crash in the days ahead.
 
In Southern California, some residents in the mountains are still buried under several feet of snow after a severe winter storm lashed the region last week. Have a look. This was a desperate cry for help in San Bernardino County, as residents are running low on food, medicine, and gas and roads remain closed. Dozens lined up hoping to receive food. The roof on the town's only grocery store collapsed earlier this week. Many residents are getting frustrated as help is coming slowly.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RUBY BELTRAN, CRESTLINE, CALIFORNIA RESIDENT:  Women are stuck at home with their children, and they're on their last two chicken breasts, and there's no help.
 
ILIANA VARGAS, STRANDED RESIDENT:  Some ladies need diapers, some people need medicine, some people are -- cannot get their insulin on time. The pharmacies are closed. I mean, it's crazy up there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  One FedEx driver in Kentucky is lucky to be alive right now. Just watch what happened along his route on Friday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Tony Antal, tells CNN it's now setting in how close he came to getting seriously hurt or worse. Gosh, just look at that, when a tree toppled after hours of rough weather. Antal was still scanning packages on the porch when he said something felt off. He heard a creaking sound and then saw a shadow out of the corner of his eye. That's when he started running. After the tree crashed on to the porch, Tony was unarmed, but he called the home's homeowner to make sure he knew what happened.
 
The U.S. so far hasn't supplied fighter jets to Ukraine, but now we're learning Ukrainian pilots are in the U.S. to check out how quickly they could master flying jets like this one. That's ahead.
 
And the man at the center of Greece's deadly train collision appears in court as a makeshift (ph) memorial grows outside the courthouse. We'll go live to Athens. Coming up. Please, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  CNN is learning that two Ukrainian pilots are here in the U.S., being evaluated for possible training on American-made fighter jets. Three sources briefed on the matter say, the goal is to see how quickly those pilots would learn to fly F-16s and other aircraft. Ukraine has been pushing to acquire western fighter jets, but the U.S. and some of its allies have been skeptical about the idea. Now, all of this as fighting rages for control of the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Ukraine says, it's still holding the line in Bakhmut despite Russia trying to make a final push to encircle the city. Now, this video was posted on Saturday, showing Ukrainian troops exchanging fire with Russians on the streets. One Ukrainian soldier says, the only thing certain right now is the uncertainty.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  I don't know what is coming tomorrow or even this evening. The situation is changing every minute. There might be shelling even now. No one knows what will happen tomorrow. We will see.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Our Salma Abdelaziz is keeping an eye on developments in Ukraine and she joins me now live from London. So, Salma, more pressure on Ukrainian soldiers in Bakhmut. How long can they hold out?
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  All eyes now on Bakhmut, very much the primary flashpoint right now in this conflict where Ukrainian troops say, Russian forces are doing everything they can to encircle the city. Ukrainian forces saying, they've been able to repel several attacks by Moscow's troops and Wagner mercenaries just in the last 24 to 48 hours, but they say those attacks, those very ferocious. Attacks keep coming, constant artillery shelling, multiple rocket launchers used, those street-to-street battles that you played video of earlier continuing.
 
President Zelenskyy using his nightly address to appoint out the challenges his men are facing on the battlefield. He says, it's the most difficult war -- most difficult part of the war right now is in the City of Bakhmut. He goes on to say that the line of resistance, that front line is still being held by Ukrainian forces. And that they have been able to repel those attacks, but also inflict damage on Russian troops. President Zelenskyy saying that hundreds of Russia's forces have been killed in recent days and weeks, and that some have even been captured as prisoners of war.
 
Now, that still means that there's still a very bleak picture on the ground for Ukrainian forces, who really have been struggling to hold this city in recent weeks and months. The major vital supply route that had connected Bakhmut to a nearby village, it was that supply route that brought weapons in, that brought supplies in to those troops. But also provided a corridor for aid for the four and a half thousand civilians still trapped inside. That supply route was blown up in the last couple of days, cutting off this very besieged and vulnerable city from the rest of Ukraine.
 
We also understand that President Zelenskyy's own men have not ruled out the possibility of having to strategically withdraw from the city. But for now, Ukrainian commanders say, they've been able to stabilize that front line, hold that line of resistance. But they say, Kim, every hour in that city is like hell.
 
BRUNHUBER:  And then Salma, it seems as though Ukraine has seen quite a few high-profile foreign diplomats, politicians come in the past week or so. The latest, the chief of the European Parliament. What came out of that meeting in Lviv?
 
ABDELAZIZ:  Yes, what's very interesting, Kim, about this conflict is while this is happening, while this is unfolding on the ground, Ukraine has made a very clear and deliberate effort to try to collect evidence. It says, to eventually hold Russia accountable for alleged war crimes, for alleged human rights violations on the ground. Just from my own experience of being there, you very quickly see after a bomb attack or a missile attack, there are prosecutors on the ground. There are experts on the ground there to collect evidence.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
Some in the realm of that, Ukraine holding a united for justice conference, and inviting its partners over to begin to speak about holding Russia accountable. The European Parliament President Roberta Metsola was there for an unannounced visit in Lviv just the other day. Take a listen to what she said during her visit.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ROBERTA METSOLA, EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT PRESIDENT:  When we talk about peace, we need to talk about accountability. Whoever is responsible for these crimes needs to pay. And that means that if we find jurisdiction for the crime of aggression, that we need to find the legal means to do it. It is about bringing persons accountable, including Vladimir Putin to justice. Without that, we will not have peace.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ:  Now, just before her visit, the U.S. attorney general visited as well and echoed a very similar sentiment, saying that the United States and its partners would do everything they can to hold Russia accountable for any alleged war crimes or human rights violations on the ground. Ukraine has stepped forward with its partners, also to build a center in The Hague, of course, home of the International Criminal Court there. They hope, again, to bring people to justice.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Appreciate that. Salma Abdelaziz in London.
 
Well, Saturday marked one year since Russia attacked and then occupied Europe's largest nuclear power plant. Since then, artillery fire has repeatedly struck near the Zaporizhzhia Plant which prompted fears of a possible nuclear incident. And now, as Clare Sebastian reports, Ukraine is worried about Russia wants to do next.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  A year into its occupation of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, Russia is making changes. Satellite images showing the dry storage area where spent nuclear fuel is kept after being cooled. First in August last year, then at the end of February, what looks like a structure has appeared. Russia's atomic energy company, Rosatom, tells state media, it's building a shield to protect against Ukrainian artillery strikes. A local Russian-backed official posted this in December, calling it protective done.
 
PETRO KOTIN, PRESIDENT, ENERGOATOM:  It's all illegal. Doing anything without license because it could impact nuclear and radiation safety.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover):  The head of Ukraine's atomic energy company, Energoatom says, it's all part of a deteriorating situation at Zaporizhzhia that he is powerless to stop.
 
SEBASTIAN (on camera):  What is the biggest risk right now when it comes to safety in the plant?
 
KOTIN:  Yes, biggest risk is that we do not know what is in their hands at the moment. And you can expect they can do anything. So, they can continue shelling on the plant, for example.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover):  Energoatom says, Russia, which forcibly took over the plant last March, damaging several buildings in the process, continues to use it as a de facto military base. Video surfaced last summer of military trucks in one of the turbine buildings next to a reactor.
 
Last month, Energoatom accused Russia of bringing hundreds of newly mobilized troops to the site before deploying them to the east. Rosatom's own press service for the power plant denied there's any heavy military equipment on site, but noted that Russia's national guard troops, Putin's domestic security force, are gourd guarding the plant.
 
RAFAEL GROSSI, DIRECTOR GENERAL, INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY: I'm very worried about Zaporizhzhia. I'm very worried.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover):  Energoatom says, the plant has been cut off from the electricity grid five times in total, leaving diesel generators the last line of defense before a catastrophe. Fighting has also come too close. The IAEA reports shelling hit a building housing fresh nuclear fuel in September and reactor building in November. Energoatom now estimates that four and a half thousand Ukrainian staff are left at the plant out of 11,000 before the war.
 
NICK TOMKINSON, SENIOR PARTNER, GLOBAL NUCLEAR SECURITY PARTNERS: That reduction of the number of people is going to have a significant impact on their ability to maintain and function sort of systems, whether or not that's security systems, safety systems, radiation monitoring.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover):  Nuclear expert, Nick Tomkinson says, he is working with the Ukrainian government to try to deploy radiation mapping systems at Zaporizhzhia and other nuclear sites.
 
TOMKINSON:  One of the concerns could be that things could go missing from Zaporizhzhia, particularly some of the fuel. I'm not worried about mistakes. What I would be worried about was -- is an active decision to do something.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover):  Ukraine's nuclear power company, though, is worried about a slow-motion mistake. Poor maintenance leading to the degradation of the equipment on the site, including the reactors themselves, currently all in various states of shutdown.
 
KOTIN:  It is going to the stage where nobody knows -- if we will be able to operate it again. And this is just a matter of time.
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover):  The Russian side says, strict radiation safety standards are being observed. Hardly a consolation when 20 percent of Ukraine's electricity supply remains hostage to this war. Clare Sebastian, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, later this hour, you'll hear how one mom from Ukraine left the war zone with her two young children and is now building a new life in California with help from her American sponsor.
 
Iran will allow the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog to monitor its atomic energy program more closely, that's according to the head of the IAEA who met with Iranian leaders in Tehran on Saturday. Rafael Grossi says, Iran will give the agency more access to certain people and sites where Ukraine -- where uranium is being enriched. He also says, inspections will increase by about 50 percent and that some monitoring equipment will be reinstalled after being removed last year.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GROSSI:  We have put a tourniquet on the bleeding of information and lack of continuity of knowledge we had. So now, we can start working again, reconstructing this base lines of information. And these are not words. This is very concrete. And this was a deficit we had which we have agreed with Iran that is going to be redressed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  China's National People's Congress is now gathered for its annual session and the policies approved here will likely be felt far beyond China. We'll have a live report from Beijing just ahead. Please stay with us (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom."
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
China's national legislature is now in session for the first time since Xi Jinping secured his third time as head of the Communist Party last October. For the U.S. and other countries, the U.N. offers a glimpse into Beijing's policies and goals for the coming year. The National People's Congress is largely a formality with delegates signing off on policy decisions that have already been finalized by the top leaders. China's premiere, who is expected to step down after 10 years in the post, delivered an opening address on the state of the country and Beijing's continued hard line towards Taiwan. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LI KEQIANG, OUTGOING CHINESE PREMIER (through translator):  We should persist in implementing our party's overall policy on the new era on resolving the Taiwan question. Firmly adhere to the one-China principle and the 1992 consensus. And firmly take resolute steps to oppose Taiwan independence and promote reunification.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  China's also planning a major boost to its defense spending this year. CNN's Beijing Bureau Chief Steven Jiang is tracking all of this for us from the Chinese capital. So, this increase in defense spending, Steven, what's behind it?
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BIEJING BUREAU CHIEF:  Taiwan is a big reason for that, Kim. As you just heard the outgoing premier mentioning the self- governing democracy, which the ruling Communist Party here has never controlled, but also has never renounced a use of force to "Reunite it with the mainland" because they do have sovereign claims over the island.
 
Now, this defense increase budget of 7.2 percent for 2023 only slightly higher than last year's 7.1 percent on paper. But it does indicate this continuous growth several years in a row. And also, given the size of China's economy, it translates into $224 billion U.S., really dwarfing those of China's neighbors, many of whom are having territorial disputes with Beijing. Not to mention rising geopolitical tensions between the United States and China.
 
We have seen the U.S., for example, in recent months expanded its access to military bases in the Philippines, and also teaming up with the U.K. and Australia to develop nuclear-powered submarines for Australians. So, there's quite a bit of regional arms race going on. So, that's why this newest increase from Beijing is very concerning for many.
 
But the most concerning issues for many legislators here this year is probably the economic recovery, after the government abruptly ended its zero-COVID policy. Remember, that policy really wreaked havoc on this economy for much of last year. But after that initial chaotic and even deadly exit from this policy, we have seen a very strong rebound in this economy.
 
Official data really showing very strong numbers in manufacturing, services, and construction starting in late January. So, some were predicting the growth target for the GDP would be something closer to six percent for 2023, but the official figure, around five percent.
 
So, that relatively modest figure may be a reflection of the leadership's hesitancy in terms of how sustainable this growth is, as well as the realization. The strong headwinds that continue to face both domestically and internationally with, you know, severely unprecedented slump in the real estate sector grow -- a very, very high youth and unemployment rate, not to mention high interest rates around the world and the war in Ukraine, and of course, the growing U.S. restrictions on technology transfer to China. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Interesting. All right. Thanks so much, Steven Jiang in Beijing.
 
North Korea is objecting to the latest U.S.-South Korean joint military exercises. Pyongyang even calling on the United Nations to urge them to stop. The United States and South Korea carried out a combined military air drill on Friday. The exercises involved U.S. long-range bombers, as well as South Korean fighter jets. The two nations will conduct large-scale military exercises dubbed Freedom Shield beginning in mid-March. North Korea has responded to previous military exercises with missile launches and nuclear threats.
 
For the ninth straight week, protesters in Israel have staged massive rallies against their country's far-right government. In Tel Aviv, some demonstrators breached a barricade and temporarily blocked a highway before they were dispersed by police. Authorities say, more than 150,000 people marched through that city on Saturday, tens of thousands more demonstrated in other places across the country. Most were protesting against the prime minister's plan to weaken the independence of the judiciary. Some were also there to condemn recent attacks by Israeli settlers against Palestinians in the West Bank.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is nine weeks in a row that we come here every Saturday night, to protect our democracy. Because there's great danger to turn -- that Israel will turn into a dictatorship with the laws being passed by the Knesset. So, we came here to demonstrate over and over again until we win.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  In Peru, at least 16 people including ten civilians were injured after clashes broke out between protesters and police.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Local officials say, among the injured was a 13-year-old who suffered tear gas poisoning. Crew's state news agency report that clashes erupted after demonstrators set a fire at a police station. The country's ombudsman office says, acts of violence will be investigated. Protests have swept through recently after the impeachment and arrest of Former President Pedro Castillo.
 
The station master at the center of Greece's deadly train crash is expected in court today. There's now a makeshift memorial outside the courthouse in Larissa where he will face charges connected to Tuesday's collision. Authorities say, at first, he blamed the disaster on a technical fault but later admitted to making a mistake. 57 people died when the passenger train collide head-on with a freight train. CNN's Eleni Giokos joins us live from Athens, Greece.
 
Eleni, still plenty of grief and growing anger. What's the energy there?
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The energy of trauma, and pain, and also anger palpable here. I have to say, everyone I speak to is absolutely traumatized. I guess it hits home, because this is a route that so many people have taken -- and security. As you say, the station master will be appearing before prosecutors to give his version of events. He initially said it was a technical fault, then admitted it was human error. We also heard that sound where he was telling the train driver to skip the red lights and also did not give the order to change track where then that resulted in the fatal accidents.
 
Quite significant today, the prime minister coming out with a statement and apologizing and he says, everyone, and above all to the relatives of the victims, a big sorry. Both personally and in the name of all of those who have ruled the country for years. We cannot, and will not, and must not hide behind human error. He also goes on to say, which is quite interesting, if the remote system had been completed, this accident would have been practically impossible and the fact that that control system was meant to come into effect in the next two months is no excuse.
 
This is really significant. The prime minister initially said this was human error. And as the investigation goes on, you're hearing just so much more that is coming through. Greeks have so many questions. I want to show you a couple of newspaper headlines that have come through in the Sunday papers. This one says guilty and fatal, and showing the faces of the people in charge, the prime minister, the former chancellor administer that also resigned, the station master, and other people leading the institution within the railway system.
 
This one, I guess, perhaps more telling of the way people feel. This is black with the candles that have been lit. Churches around the country hosting memorials, vigils. Protesters are said to take to the streets around the county as well in commemoration of those that had lost their lives, 57 people losing their lives. There are seven people in critical condition.
 
Interestingly, that first carriage which we've spoke about, (INAUDIBLE), where most of the people were found dead, one person survived. He was thrown out of the carriage. He is in critical condition. There's one person that is unaccounted for. No one -- no loved one has gone to search for them. So, there's a lot of, you know, talk about how to find this person's relatives and family.
 
Importantly here, as well. I think Greeks want to know how this happened, why it happened, and what kind of responsibility comes with all of this. The station master, of course, in the middle of this investigation right now. He's going to be the person that I think everyone turns to. But here's the thing, we've known for many years and there have been many voices throughout the years talking about the fact that there was lack of safety in the Greek railway system. Greece has the worst rating in the whole of the EU over the past 10 years.
 
In the meantime, people are coming to terms and grips with what this means for the nation. And as I say, the energy here, you can just feel -- I mean, everyone you speak to, regardless of who you bump into, is talking about this and wondering what the next steps are. We also have to keep in mind that Greece will be hosting general elections in the next few months. This might be a critical momentum for Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his government. How they handle this, how they deal with this, and what the next steps are. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, we'll keep following that story. Eleni Giokos in Athens, thanks so much.
 
Well, from escaping a war zone to a fresh start in the U.S. Still ahead, a Ukrainian mother whose family escaped scenes like these in her hometown talks about her new life. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Millions of Ukrainians had to bid good-bye to their homes, at least temporarily, after Russia began its invasion when they fled across the border or to other parts of Ukraine in search of safety. According to the U.N., more than 8 million Ukrainians have gone to other parts of Europe and neighboring countries, while nearly 5 million are internally displaced inside Ukraine.
 
So, we want to introduce you now to a refugee from the City of Dnipro, which has seen its share of Russian attacks. She's now adjusting to a new life in the U.S., partly thanks to her host who was originally a complete stranger. And joining me now from Sacramento, California, Kateryna Pryoh is from Ukraine. She and her family fled the country when the war began and Jennifer Scalzi is their sponsor here in the U.S.
 
Thank you both so much for coming on. Kateryna, I want to start with you. I mean, the year anniversary of the war just passed. Looking on, it must be an emotional time for you, thinking of having to leave your country and everyone that you left behind.
 
KATERYNA PRYOH, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE:  You know, it's so -- maybe it's so hard and it's the most hard year of my life because, you know, when you -- not to know when you're coming with kids and you leave your home, it's so dangerous, and you understand that, one thing, that you need to be safe with your kids and that's all. And I just -- I don't know. I just, I appreciate God that I'm here in USA and the most safety country in the world now. And I have Jennifer near me and it's -- I don't know.
 
BRUNHUBER:  To find her out of all of this is a real blessing, and it was not easy. I mean, your journey here to the U.S. was so difficult.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
You had to travel, you know, first to Poland and then to Tijuana, Mexico -- 
 
PRYOH:  Yes.
 
BRUNHUBER:  -- with two children. I mean, how challenging was that? What was the hardest part?
 
PRYOH:  You know, it's so -- I don't know how to say. Jennifer, help me.
 
JENNIFER SCALZI, SPONSORED KATERYNA AND HER FAMILY:  Not knowing where you were going or who you were going to be helping -- who was going to help you next, who you could trust, that was one of the things you shared.
 
PRYOH:  Yes. Yes, it's so hard.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Jennifer, I'll pick up with you then. I mean, You didn't know Kateryna, so, how did you get involved in, you know, in her life and in taking her in?
 
SCALZI:  Well, when I heard what was going on and I knew that Sacramento was going to be, you know, a major stopping ground for a lot of refugees, because we have a high Ukrainian and Russian population here. I started networking with the local Ukrainian churches and friends that I know that are from Russia or the Ukraine and told them that I have, you know, plenty of room available in my house that I was willing to take, you know, a mom and her children.
 
And so, you know, I didn't hear from anybody for a couple of months and all of a sudden, they said, they're going to be here tomorrow. And I'm like, oh, wow. And so, I rushed around and -- you know, I already had things kind of ready, you know, I had some extra beds put in and the whole upstairs is vacant. So, it was very easy for me to, you know, get things ready. And then she's -- I opened the door one day and there she was with her two precious little girls and the rest is history.
 
BRUNHUBER:  And Kateryna, was it hard to adjust? Was the U.S., sort of, what you'd pictured it to be?
 
PRYOH:  What is it?
 
SCALZI:  Was the U.S. what you thought it would be?
 
PRYOH:  Thought it would be?
 
SCALZI:  In your mind -- 
 
PRYOH:  Yes, was I -- 
 
SCALZI:  -- was the U.S. thought it would be?
 
PRYOH:  No, it's like different in my head in real, you know, it's just too big difference.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes.
 
SCALZI:  Tell him, you thought it was -- she thought it was going to be more like Hollywood.
 
PRYOH:  Yes.
 
SCALZI:  You know, the Kardashians, "The Desperate Housewives" and then she gets here and reality hits. And that was tough for her. It really was hard for her and it was hard to watch the struggle because she had a fantasy about what things were going to be like. And out of the horrible circumstances, her dream of coming to the United States came true, but it wasn't -- 
 
PRYOH:  But it's true -- 
 
SCALZI:  it wasn't -- the dream was not real.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes.
 
SCALZI:  It was so different.
 
BRUNHUBER:  And -- 
 
SCALZI:  But she got me.
 
BRUNHUBER:  And now -- 
 
PRYOH:  I got you and I just found love and I have a family, a big family for me. Yes, it's hard, but my parents still in Ukraine and my little brother, you know, my relatives and my friends, all people in Ukraine. And -- but here is, you know, start of my new life with my husband -- future husband, and my kids and it's good.
 
BRUNHUBER:  You hear the debate here in the U.S. over whether we should continue giving Ukraine billions of dollars-worth of support. I mean, what would you say to those lawmakers who say that, you know, they want to cut off funding and the money is more needed here at home.
 
PRYOH:  You need to answer.
 
SCALZI:  OK. For me, I think that we need to practice a system of checks and balances. We do need to help our brothers and sisters that are under very difficult circumstances. But we've got some crises that's going on in this country as well, especially what's going on in Ohio. And we really, really need to be taking care of our own people here as well. But I think we can do both.
 
And that's what I would say to our lawmakers. Let's figure out a way to make this happen where we can help both, you know, the Ukrainian people as well as our own. So, we can't neglect, you know, Americans, but we also can't not turn away from what's going on either.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Finally, Kateryna -- I mean, you're still in touch, obviously, with friends, with your family, parents back home. What would you like to say to them?
 
PRYOH:  For my parents and friends?
 
BRUNHUBER:  That's right.
 
PRYOH:  Yes, so I need to say for them that I love them so much and I miss them. And I want to hug all of my people, you know, it's -- it will be soon, and I believe in it. The war needs to be end.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, let's hope so. Absolutely. Listen, it's been great talking to both of you. A heart-warming story in what's been such a tragic story for the last year. Kateryna Pryoh and Jennifer Scalzi, thank you so much for being here with us.
 
SCALZI:  You're welcome.
 
PRYOH:  Thank you.
 
SCALZI:  Thank you for having us.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Just ahead, nearly a month after the earthquake that devastated Turkey and Syria, a young survivor gets his wish to meet a soccer legend. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  A Syrian boy who survived February's devastating earthquake got his wish to meet one of soccer's biggest superstars. Have a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NABIL SAEED, EARTHQUAKE SURVIVOR FROM SYRIA:  I love you.
 
CRISTIANO RONALDO, PORTUGUESE PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALLER:  You OK.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  You can see the joy there in that video shared on social media. Nabil Saeed told rescue workers he wanted to meet Cristiano Ronaldo. Well, as you saw, he got his wish on Friday when he was invited to meet the Al Nassr superstar before the team's match in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Al Nassr won the game three to one, they remain at the top of the Saudi pro league.
 
Sydney Harbour Bridge in Australia transformed into a rainbow of humanity earlier today when an estimated 50,000 people marched across the famous span. They were celebrating the final day of WorldPride festival. Movie star, Sam Neill was among the partygoers.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAM NEILL, ACTOR:  It turned out to be marching with the -- this community that I love so much.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
And celebrate how far it's come in the last 40, 50 years since I first came to Sydney. Sydney, sort of, leads (ph) the world, really.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Sydney is the first city in the southern atmosphere to host the international event which started 23 years ago. It coincided with the fifth anniversary of marriage equality legislation in Australia.
 
Well, nearly a year after Will Smith slapped him at the Oscars, comedian Christ Rock is finally addressing the incident in a new Netflix special. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Chris, they're ready for you.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Three, two, one, and we're live.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BRUNHUBER:  Performing in front of a global audience, Rock said, he's not a victim and he took that hit like Pacquiao, a reference to the famous Filipino boxer. Rock also suggested that Smith's response to his joke about his wife was more about the couple's relationship than him. He went on to discuss various topics from addiction, abortion, to racism in America.
 
All right. Pretty pups, please step to the side. It's time to shine a light on men's most unattractive best friends. Have a look here. The world's ugliest dog contest is taking applications until June 21st. According to its website, the competition celebrates imperfections that make all dogs special and unique. Last year's winner was an almost hairless 17-year-old named Mr. Happy Face. Organizers say the contest is really about having fun with beautiful animals that are loaded with character and actually kind of comical.
 
All right. That wraps this hour of "CNN Newsroom". I'm Kim Brunhuber. I'll be back in just a moment were more news. Please do stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:00]