Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel And Hamas Look To Extend Truce After More Hostages Are Freed; Palestinians In Ramallah Cheer Hamas As Dozens More Prisoners Freed; At Least 120 Aid Trucks Have Entered Gaza Through Rafah Border; Life Inside Gaza; Biden, Netanyahu to Continue Working to Release Hostages; 17 Hostages Freed by Hamas on Day Three of Temporary Truce; 3 Palestinian students shot in Vermont; Holiday Spirit Endures in Troubled Times. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired November 27, 2023 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:22]
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to our viewers watching all around the world. I'm Laila Harrak. This is CNN Newsroom. It's now the fourth day of a temporary truce between Israel and Hamas and the militant group says it wants to extend the pause in the fighting beyond the four-day deal. 
 
A source tells CNN Israel's war cabinet also discussed that possibility Sunday night. More hostages are expected to be released in the hours ahead and on day three of the truce, 17 hostages were freed including Israelis and foreign nationals. 
 
The group included mothers and children and ranged in age from 84 to four-years-old. Other hostages released by Hamas over the weekend, including this mother and daughter have already been reunited with their families. 
 
And as part of the deal an additional 39 Palestinian prisoners and detainees were released from Israeli jails on Sunday. All were teenage boys 18 years old and younger. CNN's Clare Sebastian is following developments and joins us now live from a London. A very good morning, Clare. It's the fourth and final agreed day of this temporary truce. Let's first reflect on what happened during day three. 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, good morning, Laila. If you wait for news of what will unfold today on Monday, Sunday's released as you say included 17 people the youngest that were two four-year olds, among them, Israeli American Abigail Edan, whose parents were killed in that massacre on October 7, two siblings those survived. 
 
There was a lot of anticipation certainly on the U.S. side that she would be released as part of this four-day hostage deal that has now happened. In other news, the oldest among those released on Sunday was Alma Abraham, she is said to be in a critical condition in ICU in hospital her life in danger. According to doctors there this is the first time that we've heard of a hostage being released being that in that level of medical distress, so that is worth noting. 
 
Separately, Sunday's exchange appeared to go smoother than Saturdays where there was some hitches 39 Palestinian prisoners, as you say, mainly males under 18 were released and aid trucks were seen in large numbers entering Gaza. This is critical because we know one of the reasons why Ham has delayed the release of hostages on Saturday was because they accused Israel of not keeping up their end of the bargain of not sending enough aid trucks, specifically into northern Gaza. 
 
Now there was another issue on Saturday that we're continuing to see the fallout of and that is that a 13-year-old girl was released without her mother. This is something that we're learning from Israeli officials that they fought to include her mother. They're not exactly sure why she wasn't included. And they still don't exactly know the status of her mother. 
 
Listen to Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus speaking to CNN as Kaitlan Collins about why he thinks that Hamas did this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LT. COL. JONATHAN CONRICUS, IDF INTERNATIONAL SPOKESPERSON: They're preying on the feelings of Israelis, as simple as that they want to manipulate. They want to create more suffering. They want to leverage each and every Israeli in their captivity for political pressure. They think that they can buy their way out of this situation that they have forced upon us this war, and that they want to use the civilian hostages in order to try to survive and see yet another day. This will fail.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So the original deal as we understand it, from Israel and included a clause that families could not be separated. I think this shows two things that one trust is extremely low. This is extremely fragile, as we go into day four, the final expected day of this, and secondly, that Israel doesn't have full visibility on the status and whereabouts of what we understand to be some 180 plus hostages that still remain in Gaza. Laila.
 
HARRAK: But still, Clare, there is a glimmer of a glimmer of a hope both sides appear to want to extend the truce. 
 
SEBASTIAN: You know, this is complicated. We know from an Israeli source that the Israeli war cabinet discussed the possibility of extending on Sunday, but we certainly understand from that and from the IDF spokesperson speaking on our air that this doesn't go beyond what was already agreed.
 <br>[01:05:05]
 
And the original agreement included a clause where for every additional 10 live is rating hostages released. The truce could be extended for 24 hours. So that is potentially still an option. This is something that Prime Minister Netanyahu told U.S. President Biden on Sunday that would be welcomed if they could get additional hostages out.
 
Separately, we've also heard from Hamas saying that they want to extend the truce through these serious efforts to increase the number of those released from imprisonment, as stipulated they say, in the humanitarian ceasefire agreement. So again, it sounds like they are not going beyond what was originally agreed. 
 
Now there is outside pressure, Qatar, which is the key mediator and this has said all along, that they want to build momentum towards something more lasting. President Biden also said on Sunday that he's hopeful that this won't be the end, but that Israel is standing very firmly by the idea that it has not yet finished the job of dismantling Hamas completely and preventing what it says is a likely future repeat of October 7 if it doesn't do that. 
 
We saw Prime Minister Netanyahu in Gaza according to his office on Sunday, you can see him there and a helmet and flak jacket and he said that we will continue until the end until victory. Nothing will stop us. I think look after this four days or perhaps even more days of truce are up. This fight may be even harder because Hamas will have had time to regroup. Laila.
 
HARRAK: Clare Sebastian in London. Thank you. And for someone who's really families a nightmare that began more than seven weeks ago has finally come to an end. CNN's Matthew Chance has more now from Tel Aviv.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): They arrived by helicopter for the safety of an Israeli children's hospital near Tel Aviv. 51-day nightmare as hostages in Gaza at an end. 
 
Just hours earlier, they were released to the Red Cross, Hamas posting this highly choreographed video. It's audio removed, apparently showing Palestinians in Gaza City, which Israel has relentlessly pounded. Cheering as hostages are handed over, including U.S.-Israeli toddler, Abigail Edan, who turned four just days ago in captivity. Her parents were killed by Hamas. Her relatives say Abigail doesn't know she's returning home an orphan.
 
NOA NAFTALI, COUSIN OF FORMER HAMAS HOSTAGE ABIGAIL EDAN: Her brother and her sister are have survived. They hid in a closet for 14 hours after watching their parents murdered thinking that Abigail was murdered too. They are now with their grandparents and their aunts and uncles who live with them on the kibbutz. They have a wonderful extended family and we are all waiting for Abigail to come home. 
 
CHANCE (voice-over): This was the horrific aftermath of the Hams rampage through Kfar Aza, one of the Israeli communities near Gaza, where so many was slaughtered or abducted on October the seventh. 
 
Family members say Abigail was in her father's arms when he was gunned down. Then she fled to her neighbors, the Rodak (ph) family.
 
CHANCE: How old?
 
AVICHAI BRODUTCH, HUSBAND AND FATHER OF FORMER HAMAS HOSTAGE: He's four and a half. 
 
CHANCE (voice-over): And a need to be abducted and now released along with them. From the start of this ordeal, Avichai Brodutch told me he's kept faith.
 
BRODUTCH: That always hope with me and you know, my beliefs and I believe that they're doing fine. You know, these guys that took them. I know they're religious. I know they're Muslim. So, I got this great hope that they're, you know, treating them well. Feeding them and letting them move around a bit. Maybe play some soccer.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): Now also released nine year old Tal Goldstein- Almog, seen here before he was abducted from Kfar Aza, along with his mother, assistant and brother, they're also now freed. But return that uncle told me to a shattered family, Tao's other sister Yam and father, Nadav were both murdered.
 
OMRI ALMOG, UNCLE AND BROTHER OF FORMER HAMAS HOSTAGE: I mean, the best is in front of us is going to come. Whatever happens we cannot change. That love is not longer with us. Chen the beautiful girl is not with us anymore, but --
 
CHANCE: There's still a chance. There's a chance of your sister.
 
ALMOG: Yes. Yes. Yes. We have to bring what left. We need to bring back with left from this family. It's a broken family.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): And there are so many broken families that each hostage release may now start to help rebuild. Matthew Chance, CNN, Tel Aviv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[01:10:00]
 
HARRAK: And meantime there were celebrations in the occupied West Bank as dozens more Palestinian prisoners were released from Israeli prisons as part of the deal between Israel and Hamas. Crowds of well- wishers in Ramallah waved Palestinian and Hamas flags and gathered around a bus which was carrying some of the freed prisoners. 
 
Celebrations were more subdued in Jerusalem, where Israeli police have specifically warned against them. The Israeli Prison Service says 39 prisoners and detainees all teenage boys were released Sunday from seven prisons. 
 
The Palestinian prisoners released on Sunday were all 18 years old or younger, the youngest 14 years old. According to information from the Israeli Prison Service and the Palestinian Prisoners Society, some of them were detained without knowing the charges they faced and as CNN's Nada Bashir reports, many of those released say they were abused while in custody.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): Carried through the crowds, celebrated by thousands of Palestinians. These boys are among 33 teenagers released from Israeli prisons on Saturday. This is for many here in the occupied West Bank, a moment of hope. And for those now freed, a moment of utter relief. 
 
I'm so happy. I can't believe this is real. Ibrahim says. I don't even know what to say. 
 
This scene a product of a delicate four-day truce agreement between Israel and Hamas set to see 150 Palestinian prisoners and detainees released and at least 50 Israeli hostages freed from Hamas captivity in Gaza. 
 
There are many Palestinian families who will still be waiting anxiously to hear if their loved ones will to be freed. The Tamimi family scene here on Saturday has rallied for months calling for the release of 17-year-old Wissam. He was seriously injured by Israeli forces and later arrested in June, accused by Israel of offenses including possessing a weapon, but he was never charged. 
 
Now, he and his family are finally together again. I can't describe to you how I'm feeling right now. I honestly can't believe it. I feel like I'm in a dream, Wissam's mother Hunaida says. My son is finally with me. I thank God and pray that every mother will be able to feel this joy. I pray God grants Palestinian people this happiness. We just want to be able to smile and laugh together. 
 
Many of those now released are among the over 3,000 Palestinians held under administrative detention, meaning no charges have been made against them, and no ongoing legal process. Israel says some of those released were being held on terror or weapons charges. But in a list published by Israeli authorities of 300 women and children eligible for release, throwing stones and harming regional security were among the most common charges.
 
DR. MUSTAFA BARGHOUD, PALESTINIAN POLITICIAN AND ACTIVIST: There are children here who have been in use in jail for eight years, five years, six years. It's unacceptable. Many of them have now huge psychological problems, because of the torture, at least psychological torture because of the way they were interrogated. It is a terrible atrocity that is practiced against these children.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): For the crowds gathered here in the occupied West Bank, this celebration, they say is a symbol of justice. Bringing thousands of Palestinians together to share in the joy of now reunited families. But for many that joy is coupled with grief, with pain felt deeply here for the people of Gaza.
 
JANNA JIHAD, COUSIN OF WISSAM TAMIMI: We're extremely happy, but still overwhelmed and extremely saddened by everything going on here in Palestine, but at the same time still resilient keep going with whatever we can do in order to hopefully achieve a ceasefire and hopefully later on a full liberation. BASHIR: And look, many of the teenagers we spoke to who have been released as part of that truce agreement told us they had experienced abuse and mistreatment while in detention. And we have now received a response from the Israeli Prison Service spokesperson who has said that all those who have been released were serving time for serious offenses and that all prisoners are detained under the provisions of Israeli law. 
 
But of course, as we know many of those detained are held under administrative detention meaning no charges laid against, no clear legal process. Many are hopeful, of course still, they will see their loved ones their children's their relatives released on that final day of the truce agreement as it currently stands, many families waiting to see if they the loved ones are on that list of prisoners and detainees set to be released on Monday.
 <br>[01:15:05]
 
HARRAK: That reports by Nada Bashir. And not long after the Israeli hostages were reunited with their loved, CNN's Wolf Blitzer spoke with Israel President Isaac Herzog in Jerusalem. We talked about the prospect of extending this pastor bring more hostages home, and about what a long term solution in Gaza might look like.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISAAC HERZOG, ISRAELI PRESIDENT: So we have to first remember that there are a few more days of release of the hostages, whilst Israel is releasing terrorists who are charged and prisoned for terror activities, including taking lives of people or threatening to take lives of people. And this is a very gruesome process. 
 
So I don't want to speak about the next step. But it is clear to us that if we want to prevent fail or terror against Israel from Gaza, and change the future of the Middle East. And the way the Palestinians have some hope. The only way to do it in a human way, in order to protect the human values in the region is by approaching Hamas. And that will lead to the fact that we have to take further action and undermine Hamas's military capability.
 
WOLF BLITZR, CNN ANCHOR: Not just to get your thought, if Hamas agrees to another day, another few days of this truce in order to release more Israeli hostages. Should Israel accept that?
 
HERZOG: So that is already been negotiated. First of all, it was agreed in the original agreement, which has been violated constantly by Hamas, but still implemented, piecemeal, that if they bring another 10 prisoners or so the exact number, of course is in the agreement itself. There will be an extension of another day of humanitarian pause. So that is already agreed. 
 
They can definitely bring many more hostages and released them. They kind of said that they don't know where they are, the whereabouts are. That looks to us totally false, because they've been controlling Gaza to the last aorta for the last 20 odd years in a very cruel regime that didn't let anybody move without their permission. So that is why I truly hope that in this instance, they will release more and more, and they will get more and more a humanitarian pauses.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: President Herzog acknowledged he does consider this break in fighting to be a pause. But he said if more hostages are freed beyond the initial deal, it's possible the current truce with Hamas could be extended. Qatar, which played a central role in mediating the agreement said it also was hoping to extend the truce. 
 
Joining me now via Skype from Doha, Qatar is Mehran Kamrava, Professor of Government at Georgetown University in Qatar. Very Good morning, sir. How big of a boost is the handling of this truce for Qatar? Is there a political dividends for Doha?
 
MEHRAN KAMRAVA, PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT, GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY QATAR: Absolutely, Qatar has played a very complex political role and followed a very complex foreign policy for several years, maintaining relations with groups such as Hamas for precisely this kind of a moment. And so it's a huge boost for Qatar.
 
HARRAK: A huge boost for Qatar. But can Qatar potentially also be a peacemaker? I mean, is there a bigger role for Doha to play here beyond that a facilitator? It is obviously a very small Gulf state. And, you know, is it at all clear whether you can handle a sensitive and intractable conflict like the one between Israel and Palestine? What do you think?
 
KAMRAVA: That's very difficult to say the stakes are extremely high. And Qatar, as you mentioned, is a very small state. What we see before our eyes is history unfolding. And whether or not Qatar by itself can effect historical change is really difficult to answer. 
 
What we need is a concerted effort not just by Qatar, but also by the European Union, which so far has been remarkably silent by the United States, which really has sidelined itself and hasn't played a meaningful role in any way. And so Qatar cannot do it by itself. It takes collective international will to put an end to what's going on currently.
 
HARRAK: Interesting, so it would be part of a multi-party effort, but it's not willing to go it alone possibly. So in terms of the role that Qatar plays currently that of facilitator.
 <br>[01:20:04]
 
I'm wondering, does it carry significant risks for Qatar? What are the downsides for Doha going forward?
 
KAMRAVA: Well, there are tremendous reputational risks. What Qatar is trying to do is to prevent the onslaught and massacre of Palestinian civilians and the reputational risks are tremendous. If Qatar cannot pull this off, then of course, it will have to then answer for its involvement. So Qatar has become involved, the Qatari say, for humanitarian reasons. And if it ultimately doesn't succeed, then it can certainly backfire on Doha. HARRAK: It could potentially backfire. Now that the small Gulf state has played a pivotal role in Gaza before this war broke out, by providing assistance, I understand to Palestinians and with the blessing of and in close coordination with Israel, how would you characterize Qatar's relationship with Israel and with the Palestinians, because interestingly, it never joined the Abraham Accords, although it is acting in Gaza on basically the past of the Israelis.
 
KAMRAVA: Long before the Abraham Accords, Qatar had an Israeli trade office here in Doha. And so relations have existed for some time below the radar. And so this is nothing new. And Qatar figures, it doesn't necessarily have to join the Abraham Accords in order to maintain open lines of communication with both the Palestinians as well as with the Israelis. And so that's what we see paying dividends right now.
 
HARRAK: And in conclusion, just a final thought from you, Professor. What is Qatar's reputation as mediator? Are they a trusted interlocutor and other regional conflicts?
 
KAMRAVA: That's an excellent question. Qatar has made mediation a central pillar of its foreign policy being involved in Lebanon in places like Sudan. But of course, being a mediator does carry reputational risk and we have to wait and see whether or not they can pull this one off. So far, they've had remarkable success. And let's hope this success continues in the days and weeks to come.
 
HARRAK: All right. Mehran Kamrava, thank you so much for joining us.
 
KAMRAVA: Thank you.
 
HARRAK: And dozens of trucks carrying much needed food and supplies have reached northern Gaza but many more are still waiting to enter Gaza via the Rafah crossing. Details just ahead. 
 
Plus, the White House says U.S. President Joe Biden is in close contact with Israeli President Benjamin Netanyahu on the release of more hostages. The latest straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:25:10]
 
HARRAK: At least 120 trucks carrying aid entered Gaza on Sunday according to the Egyptian government, and the Palestinian Red Crescent says 100 of those trucks delivered food water relief items, first aid supplies and medicine to Gaza City and the northern areas to thousands of people in desperate need. 
 
More trucks are waiting to enter Gaza through the Rafah crossing during the temporary truce between Israel and Hamas. Gaza residents took this pause and finding as an opportunity to leave their homes for the first time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UM IHAB, GAZA RESIDENT (through translator): The 47 days of war we were living in fear. Our kids were terrified. This was the first time we went out. We were afraid to go out because of the missiles and the airstrikes. But since the first day of the ceasefire, we have been able to go out to buy our needs safely.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: Well, earlier my colleague Alex Marquardt spoke with Yousef Hammash, an aid worker with the Norwegian Refugee Council who lives in Gaza with his family. And they discussed what life has been like during the temporary ceasefire and what Gazans are hoping for, and fearful of after the truth sends.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUSEF HAMMASH, NORWEGIAN REFUGEE COUNCIL: People are really hoping and looking for an extending for this truce or variables and looking for it as an alternative to reach a permanent ceasefire. But few look to the people reaction for that they are feeling lost and all Gazans are hoping to get any source of news or extend another few days of imitating bows or (INAUDIBLE) for ceasefire.
 
We live these three days, and tomorrow, we are going to live fourth day. But we are preparing ourselves that we might die in the fifth day. That's the situation in Gaza. This is for the first time seven weeks, we were able to walk safely in the streets safely be in the streets without having that feeling that you might get bombed in any secondary. 
 
That's what going to make it really hard for people to go back into this cycle of violence because even for three days now people have tasted their sense of safety. A lot of people were using this opportunity to reach for other people who are in the north or Gaza City to check if their houses still there or have been destroyed. And also a lot of people use it as a chance to feel sad and sorrow for the loved ones who lost them why we didn't have even time to feel sad for our loved ones. And what we lose during the seven weeks, seven weeks of madness.
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: what have you done during these three days? What have they meant for you?
 
HAMMASH: So as these for three days, at least I managed to reach out for my relatives who some of them were injured during the bombardment, now we are going to the winter and the winter arrived. And people are not really prepared, because I'm from the northern part of Gaza and I fled to South, I fled without anything. So I use it also as an opportunity to go and at least find proper clothes for my children. Because the weather is going to be harsh, and we have nothing. 
 
I have a roof over my head but lots of people thousands people doesn't have that option. People are -- we never see seen homeless people in Gaza in our lives. Now it's really common to see people sleeping in the streets and people just looking for any place and consider it as a shelter without any means of protection. And with this word that is going to be really, really hard on them to cook to cook. 
 
And I work for an humanitarian organization. And if you combine us all as a humanitarian organization, international organization, U.N. agencies and international organization, we cannot cover the need for the people in the south.
 
And these four days are not enough. And it's an impossible mission that we can cover. They need all the aid that get in it did change something but in terms comparing to the need. Unfortunately, it's not covering the scale of need that we have. Day is changing something but you cannot -- it's not tangible. You cannot feel it because the amount of need is massive.
 
MARQUARDT: And so it sounds like everyone is just hoping that these exchanges just continue so you can drag out this moment of quiet as long as possible. But at the same time there's a recognition that at some point the violence will start again.
 <br>[01:29:46]
 
HAMMASH: People are really hoping that this would get longer and longer. So with every day that they extend it (INAUDIBLE) and people can breathe more. 
 
But also, we know that it will be limited. If they didn't reach a permanent ceasefire, and reach an agreement somehow between all parties. And that's a responsibility for the international community and world leaders to maintain a solution for the scale (ph) of suffering in Gaza. And people are -- all what the people can is hope. All that they can do is keep hoping. 
 
MARQUARDT: How is your family doing? 
 
HAMMASH: We are in survival mode. We all what we're looking for is to survive. I hope I can provide everything for my children and my family, but unfortunately even if you have the financial capacity and you have the money to afford buying things, you cannot find it. 
 
I have two children. Ada (ph) is five years old and Ahma (ph) one is two-and-a-half. And they witness several wars and my daughter can understand the difference between a missile, (INAUDIBLE) and well, she's five years old, we became experts. Our children became experts in wars. Everyone is responsible for that. 
 
We want to (INAUDIBLE) and world leaders to real action to intervene, to stop this madness. That it's affecting more than 2 million people in this narrow piece of land. We didn't see -- all what we see in the news and this propaganda is not enough. We need a real action from people who have the influence and have the ability to stop this madness. 
 
They're responsible and I'm really hoping that they stand and have the responsibilities. It is completely madness. The amount of bombardment, the amount of explosives that have been thrown into Gaza is unimaginable. If we are like having like an earthquake continue for seven weeks we
 
 will live in an earthquake. Our houses was shaking for seven weeks. We were completely disconnected during the bombardment and during the seven weeks we have been disconnected three times. And we were even disconnected from each other. And we don't know what happened on the next street, because there was no radio net communication on Internet. We were completely in a blackout. And that was rough. 
 
That experience was really horrific, especially in this, you know, we are telecommunication age. We went to the stone ages suddenly. In a few seconds we found ourselves in the stone age.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN ANCHOR: Such a powerful testimony of life in Gaza right now. 
 
Just ahead, we are learning new details about the hostages released on Sunday and how they are doing in the hospital. We will have an update after a quick break. 
 <br>[01:32:53]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK: The end of a four-day temporary ceasefire between Israel and Hamas is approaching amid discussions of a possible extension. Sources tell CNN that on Sunday, Israel's war cabinet discussed the possibility of prolonging the pause in fighting, something Hamas says it wants as well. 
 
The third exchange of hostages and prisoners was conducted on Sunday. 17 hostages held by Hamas were freed, including a four-year-old American-Israeli dual citizen. Later in the day, Israel released 39 Palestinian prisoners and detainees, all teenage boys. 
 
The White House says U.S. President Joe Biden, remains in close contact with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu about the release of hostages. Mr. Netanyahu told President Biden that's the possibility of extending the truce with Hamas would be quote, "welcome, in return for the further release of ten hostages a day from Gaza," according to a statement. 
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez has more now from the White House. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: President Biden on Sunday celebrated the release of Abigail Edan, the four-year-old American hostage who was held by Hamas and released as part of the negotiated deal between Israel and Hamas. 
 
She had been held in captivity for seven weeks, and both of her parents were killed in those October 7th terror attack. The president calling what she went through a terrible trauma, and also calling the experience, quote, "unthinkable". Now the president did speak with her family about the U.S. and Israel
 
 on Sunday, though he did not have details on her condition when speaking to reporters earlier in the day. 
 
But the president making clear in those remarks that it's not just about the release of hostages, but also getting additional humanitarian aid into Gaza and expressing some hope that there could be more pauses in fighting in the days to come, to again get more of those hostages released. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Critically needed aid is going in and hostages are coming out. This deal was structured so that it can be extended to keep building on these results. That is my goal, that is our goal, to keep this pause going beyond tomorrow so that we can continue to see more hostages come out, and surge more humanitarian relief into those who are in need in Gaza. 
 
ALVAREZ: Now, U.S. officials have said that Israel is prepared to continue pauses in fighting in exchange for Hamas releasing ten hostages for each of those days. The president spoke about that with the prime minister of Israel on Sunday, as well as getting again, aid into Gaza and making sure they can secure the release of more hostages. 
 
But what is clear tonight is that there is still intensive negotiations and discussions ongoing about getting those hostages released by Hamas after this four-day pause. 
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN -- at the White House. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: The hospital staff cheered on a 33-year-old Filipino hostage freed by Hamas after he was discharged on Sunday. 
 
Jimmy Pacheco is a father of three, and was working as a caregiver when he was taken in Israel. 
 
On Sunday three more Thai hostages were released in Gaza along with a dual Russian-Israeli citizen. 15 other freed foreign nationals are in stable condition and improving, according to the director of Israel's Shamir Medical Center. She says that they are very happy to be there and are getting the care they need. 
 
And we are learning more about other Hamas hostages released as well. 84-year-old Alma Abraham is currently in intensive care according to hospital officials. It's believed she has no family members among the other hostages. Doctors say she is in a critical condition with her life at risk due to significant medical neglect while in captivity. 
 
Two families were also released on Sundays, mothers being held with their children. Chen Goldstein was among them. She was released with her teenage daughter and two young sons. 
 
Joining me now is Gregory Treverton, a professor of political science and international relations at USC and a former chair of the National Intelligence Council during the Obama administration. 
 <br>[01:39:52]
 
HARRAK: Mr. Treverton, a very warm welcome. Thank you so much for giving us some of your time. 
 
Let's start with some interesting developments. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu signaling his willingness to extend a temporary truce in return for more hostages being released. What do you make of the Israeli government's approach to the hostage situation up to now? 
 
GREGORY TREVERTON, PROFESSOR, USC: I think they've been under a lot of pressure. Certainly they've been under American pressure to do something. Domestically as well it looks like -- it has looked like Netanyahu has sort of neglected or forgotten about the hostages.
 
So I think that domestic pressure and American pressure, full-on pressure on it. But obviously their challenges is that they can't keep reservists on duty forever. That hurts the economy. So if they're going to prosecute the war in Gaza, they can't have ceasefires forever. 
 
But I think the combination of pressure has been enough to make them think that this pause makes sense, and that they can get out more hostages -- all to the good. 
 
HARRAK: And I want to get your take on another salient point. The prime minister of Qatar, a country that as you know plays a pivotal role brokering this temporary truce, told "The Financial Times" in an interview that extending the truce will depend on Hamas locating missing hostages not held by the military group. 
 
Does this raise questions for you about whether Hamas will be able to deliver all the people currently held captive in the enclave? 
 
TREVERTON: I think that's a question. It is interesting. It's a complicated set of negotiations between the United States, Israel, Qatar, Hamas, and the Islamic Jihad. And exactly, it does seem like some of these hostages are being held by splinter groups or related groups. So exactly how much control Hamas has over them is an interesting question.
 
I mean so far, happily, three days into this it's all happened. It's happened according to plan but given all that complication, given the complicated relationships and complicated negotiations, among people that don't really like to talk to each other, and don't talk to each other much, it wouldn't be surprising if there was some slippage, as there were on day two when things got delayed. 
 
HARRAK: You know, I see -- it's so intricate, so many interlocutors and different groups. Some talking to each other, a lot not talking to each other. 
 
We have seen the release of women and children and presumably now, the most difficult part will have to be tackled. The possible release of soldiers in return of more political prisoners. How do you see that playing out? 
 
TREVERTON: Yes. That's going to be the next big challenge. The problem is that neither side, Well Hamas can probably continue to wait. Ceasefire is good for them. It lets them get more food and supplies to Gaza. It lets them regroup, at least some can. So that's really not bad. 
 
For the Israeli it is harder because of those reservists, because of the difficulty in keeping reservist out of the economy, and therefore affecting the economy. 
 
So it is hard to imagine the kind of the next steps. The challenge of all of this is really seeing any end-game. That's been what's been on our minds. I think most have imagined how this might end at some point. And that continues to be the big challenge. 
 
HARRAK: The big challenge because Hamas is also going to run out of hostages. So you know, is the solution in the end just a political one? 
 
TREVERTON: Well, it has to be a political one in some sense. But you know, now Hamas really has no endgame. So if they want to destroy Israel then they're in a kind of perpetual state of war. It's ok for them. 
 
For Israel, so far, I think we have been not seeing much example or much thinking about exactly how this might end. They talk about the Palestinian Authority and the Arab and the coalition including the United States to oversee the Palestinian Authority in Gaza. 
 
It's been all pretty vague and we're unfortunately a long way from that, I think. Partly because I think Israel is still not close to achieving what it regards as its military necessities in trying to destroy Hamas. 
 
HARRAK: Gergory Treverton, thank you so very much. Greatly appreciate it. 
 
TREVERTON: My pleasure, thank you. 
 
HARRAK: And still ahead, new details about the suspect who allegedly shot three Palestinian college students in Vermont during the Thanksgiving holiday. 
 <br>[01:44:39]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK: Three Palestinian college students were shot in Burlington, Vermont on Saturday evening. Police say they have arrested now a suspect, 48-year-old Jason J. Eaton who lived in an apartment building near where the shooting took place. 
 
CNN's Carlos Suarez has details of the attack. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Authorities in Vermont are looking into the possibility this was a hate crime. According to police in Burlington, the three Palestinian students were walking on a street on their way to visit a relative on Saturday when they were confronted by a man armed with a gun. All three students were shot. 
 
Now, at the time of the shooting we are told two of the three victims were wearing a keffiyeh, that's a traditional Palestinian scarf. We are told the photo of the three students were taken earlier in the day on Saturday. 
 
All three victims are being treated at Vermont medical center. Two of them we are told are in stable condition. The third suffered more serious injuries. 
 
Now according to the Institute for Middle East Understanding, that is an organization that is in contact with the victims' families, the students were identified as 20-year-old Tahseen Ali Ahmad, Kinnan Abdalhamid, and Hisham Awartani. 
 
We're told all three graduated from a private school in West Bank before coming to the U.S. to attend different colleges. Awartani's great uncle, a former Palestinian minister of education said Awartani was visiting his grandmother. 
 
Here now is an attorney representing one of the victims' family on why they're certain this was a hate-motivated crime. 
 
ABED AYOUB, LAWYER FOR VICTIM'S FAMILY: The suspect walked up to them and shot them. They weren't robbed. They weren't robbed. It was a targeted shooting and a targeted crime. 
 
And they were wearing the keffiyeh. They are known in the area, you know, for being Palestinian. You know, that is a very well-known symbol. It's a very well-known cloth that is very symbolic of the Palestinian tribe, the Palestinian culture and history. 
 
So the fact that they were wearing this, and then fell victim to a shooter leads us to believe that that played a role. Their identity played a role in them being targeted. 
 
SUAREZ: Sunday night a crowd gathered outside of the Burlington city hall and called on police to investigate the shooting as a hate crime. 
 
Now, earlier in the day, the chief of police said no one can look at this incident and not suspect it may have been a hate-motivated crime. The FBI said it is aware of the incident, and they are ready to investigate the shooting. 
 
Carlos Suarez, CNN -- Atlanta. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: Some major cities saw massive protests related to the Israel- Hamas war on Sunday. In London, thousands rallied against anti-Semitism. Police say hate
 
 crimes have spiked in the city ever since the conflict began last month. 
 <br>[01:49:50]
 
HARRAK: Protesters called for the release of hostages and some carried signs that read, "Act against hate before it is too late". 
 
And in New York, on one of the busiest travel days of the year, the Manhattan Bridge shut down for almost four hours. A massive sit-in with protesters calling for a permanent ceasefire in Gaza. The bridge reopened late Sunday afternoon. 
 
The U.S. Navy says it intervened Sunday to prevent an apparent attempt to hijack a chemical tanker in the Gulf of Aden. The U.S. warship and allied ships responded to a distress call. The Navy says they pursued five armed individuals who surrendered after trying to flee in a small boat. 
 
The navy says that two ballistic missiles were fired later from areas controlled by Houthi rebels in Yemen toward the general direction of the ships. No damage or injuries were reported.
 
Coming up here on CNN as conflict rages in parts of the world, how people are finding hope and comfort in the spirit of the holidays. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK: Sierra Leone's president says most of the leaders responsible for an attack on the military barracks on the capital city of Freetown have been arrested. The president says a group of people attacked the armory early Sunday morning but managed to escape after coming up against security forces. On Sunday, a nationwide curfew was imposed and officials are continuing the investigations.
 
North Korea, reportedly sent troops and heavy weapons near the border with South Korea. That is according to the Yonhap News Agency. Pyongyang said Thursday it would deploy new military hardware along the Demilitarized Zone After Seoul partially pulled back from the 2018 military agreement meant to ease tensions between the two countries. That move by South Korea came after the North launched its first ever spy satellites on Tuesday. 
 
And compensations hearings are now underway in Beijing for the families of Chinese victims of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. About 40 families are suing the airline, as well as its insurer, Boeing, and the manufacture of the plane's engine. 
 
The plane disappeared over the Indian Ocean nearly ten years ago, a mystery that is still never been solved. Of the 239 people on board, 153 were Chinese nationals. 
 
The plaintiffs in the hearings claim the tragedy not only deprived them of their loved ones, but also left them in financial distress. \ The holidays are taking on special significance this year in Plains, Georgia. The hometown of former U.S. first lady Rosalynn Carter who died last Sunday at the age of 96. 
 
Residents share their memories of Carter at the town's Annual Christmas Tree Lighting. She and her husband, former president Jimmy Carter, lit the town tree at the event for many years. 
 
A number of ceremonies will be held for Rosalynn Carter early this week in Georgia before she is laid to rest on Wednesday. 
 <br>[01:54:54]
 
HARRAK: The headlines are filled with news of war and suffering in eastern Europe and the Middle East. But people around the world are still finding reasons for hope and cheer. 
 
Here is Michael Holmes with more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A gift from one city to another. Every year for the past 76 years, the people of Oslo fell a tree from a nearby forest to send to London where it will shine bright for the holiday season in Trafalgar Square, a token of gratitude for Britain's support of Norway during World War II. A beacon of hope for some and a break from some of the bleakness in the world. 
 
ANNA LINDBOE, OSLO MAYOR: But it's also become to mean so much more. And we're living in this really, really dark times and I think the Christmas tree symbolizes peace. It symbolizes standing together, friendship between cities. 
 
HOLMES: That spirit of love and light in full swing in many cities. From the celebrations on the Champs Elysees, to a holiday selfie with sparkling backdrop in Madrid. Or a stroll through a Christmas market where the warmth of the season is doled out by the cup-full. 
 
ISABELLE SERVANT, TOURIST: It's the magic of Christmas. The lights, the mulled wine, the cinnamon, the pretzels. You get away from the every day. 
 
HOLMES: But there are some places where loss overshadows joy. In Israel, despite the ongoing Israel-Hamas war, there is hope more Israeli families could be reunited with loved ones kidnapped by Hamas before Hanukkah begins in a week and a half. 
 
Christian leaders in Jerusalem have advised churches in the region from refraining from overly festive activities for Christmas. The city of Bethlehem and the Occupied West Bank, which is usually illuminated each year to mark the birth of Jesus says it is dismantling its Christmas decorations this year in solidarity with Palestinians and Gaza. 
 
Ukraine faces its second Christmas while at war with Russia. This year, it's officially moved the holiday to December 25th when many Christian denominations celebrate it, instead of following the Russian Orthodox calendar which observes it on January 7th. 
 
Last year, there were some reservations about putting up a tree in Kyiv's city center. But a 12-meter-high artificial tree was lit up in the colors of Ukraine's flag. The lights, powered by a generator, because of repeated Russian attacks on the country's energy infrastructure. 
 
Kyiv's mayor called it a tree of invincibility. A light that won't go out even in the darkness of war. 
 
Michael Holmes, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: Thank you so much for your company. 
 
I'm Laila Harrak.
 
Rosemary Church has more news for you after the break. Take care. 
 <br>[01:58:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)