Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Crosley Green, Claims He Didn't Commit Crime, Faces Life Sentence After Murder Conviction was Upheld; Launch of Most Powerful Rocket Cancelled by SpaceX; Kremlin Critic, Vladimir Kara-Murza, Faces 25 Years in Prison for Opposing War in Ukraine; American Mental Health Suffering as a Result of Mass Shootings; Rare Fungal Infection Found in Nearly 100 Confirmed or Likely Cases; Interview with Exec at Mill Linked to Deadly Fungus Outbreak and Billerud Escanaba Mill Operations VP and Manager Brian Peterson. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired April 17, 2023 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:30:00]
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  As you mentioned, 65-year-old, Crosley Green has been on conditional release since 2021 after a federal judge ruled that prosecutors here in the State of Florida withheld some evidence in his 1990 murder case. That judge overturned that life sentence and essentially told the State of Florida, look, you can either retry Green or you've got to let him go.
 
The state of Florida decided to appeal that decision to a federal court of appeals. And while that process played out, Green was allowed to go home. That federal court of appeals came back and said, look, Green has to finish out his life sentence, which is why he is going to turn himself in later today. That really only leaves the 65-year-old with two options at freedom, we're talking about going before a parole board here in the state of Florida or clemency. Now, we spent a part of Green's final weekend as a free man. Here's what he told us about his mindset going into today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CROSLEY GREEN, ORDERED BACK TO PRISON:  I can't be angry with no one. I don't want no one else to be angry no one. Anger is going to take you nowhere. What'll do but harm you. I'm happy now. I'm not happy about going back. But I'm happy. You have to understand, I'm happy because I got my wife, my future wife. I got my friends that came along up here with me that came here right now. I got my family.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUAREZ:  So, we reached out to Florida's attorney general's office on exactly why Green should be incarcerated. And Ashley Moody's office told us in a statement that read, "The Florida Attorney General's Office is charged by statute to represent the State of Florida and upholding judgments and sentences sought by state attorneys in each circuit and imposed by trial courts when they are appealed." Green's attorneys tell me that they're going to start the process before trying to get before parole board in the coming months. Now, when it comes to clemency, that discretion is really up to Florida Governor, Ron DeSantis, as well as two of the three cabinet members and one of those cabinet members that would also have to sign off on clemency is Florida's attorney general. Guys.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  All right. Carlos Suarez for us in Orlando. What a process. What a remarkable story, Carlos. Thank you very much.
 
Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  Technical troubles are forcing SpaceX to call off today's much anticipated launch of the largest and most powerful rocket ever built. The Starship rocket was supposed to take off last hour but it -- for its first fully assembled test flight. But instead, it remains grounded on itself at south padre island launch pad.
 
Let's get over to CNN's Ed Lavandera. He's back with us this hour from right near that launch site. Ed, what more have you picked up since we last spoke about what went wrong.
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Elon Musk says this morning that it was a pressurization valve issue that appeared to have frozen up just moments before the launch of the Starship rocket. There were thousands of people gathered here on the southern edge of South Padre Island, as you can see the rocket on -- still on the pad behind us. We're about five miles away.
 
So, a little bit of a let down here as this happens just moments before the scheduled takeoff. SpaceX officials are saying that it will take at least 48 hours to schedule the next launch. So, we don't have information yet on when exactly it will be rescheduled. But those SpaceX officials will have to figure out this pressurization in -- issue within the rocket system before they can launch.
 
But, you know, this is a vitally important rocket system for Elon Musk and for SpaceX. For those of you who haven't been following, this has a lot to do with -- this is the rocket system that it will eventually be part of the Artemis program ferrying NASA astronauts to and back from the moon. Also, carrying large amounts of cargo that will be needed to not only just go to the moon but also to propel space travel to Mars. That is the grand goal that is in play here. But right now, SpaceX officials dealing with this setback of having to scrub the launch this morning just moments before it was scheduled to take off. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  Ed, thank you so much for the update. And Sara, we wait now for the next launch.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  Would you go?
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes.
 
SIDNER:  Me too. Let's go together.
 
BOLDUAN:  That would -- we would be -- that would create so many troubles. So, many people would love that.
 
SIDNER:  I agree.
 
BOLDUAN:  Including me.
 
SIDNER:  All right. Now to Sudan, where the death toll is rising. Nearly 100 civilians have been killed following days of intense fighting between rival military factions in that country.
 
Plus, a prominent Kremlin critic is sentenced to more than two decades behind bars for criticizing Putin's unprovoked war in Ukraine.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
BERMAN:  This morning, the Sudanese army accuses rebel forces of lying to the public. The army disputes a report that rebels have taken over army headquarters in Khartoum. Almost 100 civilians have been killed in renewed fighting in Sudan.
 
Taiwan is disputing a report in "The Washington Post". That report said, Taiwan was highly vulnerable to Chinese air attack. Taiwan's defense ministry says, that's just not factual. And a record amount of cocaine worth almost $440 million has been found floating in the Mediterranean off the Coast of Sicily.
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
Authorities believe the floating packages were left by a passing cargo ship to be retrieved by drug runners. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  A prominent human rights advocate in Russia has now been sentenced to 25 years in prison for speaking out against the war in Ukraine. Lawyers for Vladimir Kara-Murza to say that he will appeal the sentence that was just handed down by the Moscow City Court. CNN's Clare Sebastian is tracking this for us from London.
 
Clare, what justification are they giving for this sentence?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  You know, Kate, we have not heard any justification beyond the charges themselves. Three of them, including treason, spreading false information about the Russian army that, of course, a new law that came in after the invasion of Ukraine, and involvement with, A, undesirable organization as it's called. So, those charges, they had asked for a maximum of 25 years. The maximum is what they got.
 
The lawyer for Vladimir Kara-Murza pointing out outside court that if they had been following the letter of the law, they couldn't have got the maximum because there are mitigating circumstances like the fact that he's the father of three children, all of them minors. Now, as for Vladimir Kara-Murza himself, he appeared fairly calm in court today.
 
And by way of explanation for that, Kate, I want to read you part of his final statement to the court a week ago. He said, I stand by every word I have spoken and every accusation that has been leveled against me. And I only blame myself for one thing, that over the years of my political activities, I have not been able to convince enough of my fellow countrymen and politicians in democratic countries of the danger that the current regime in the Kremlin poses to Russia and the world.
 
He has remained outspoken to the very end to this very sentencing -- his sentencing. Certainly. if you look at the reactions from around the world, emblematic of this real intense uptick in repression and the crackdown on dissent that we've seen in Russia, particularly since the start of the war in Ukraine.
 
BOLDUAN:  Clare, have you heard -- has the Biden administration had any reaction or response to this?
 
SEBASTIAN:  Yes, so the State Department has come out. A spokesperson saying that this -- Mr. Kara-Murza is yet another target of the Russian government's escalating campaign of repression. Lynne Tracy, the U.S ambassador to Russia, was also at the court today, Kate. She made a statement in person outside. Take a listen to part of that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LYNNE TRACY, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA:  Criminalization of criticism of government action is a sign of weakness, not strength. We support the right of Mr. Kara-Murza and every Russian citizen to have a voice in the direction of their country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN:  Well, she was among 40 diplomats representing 24 countries who are at that Moscow courthouse today. A measure, I think, of the international scrutiny that this case has been under at the UK, where he's a dual citizen, has also summoned the Russian ambassador there.
 
BOLDUAN:  Wow. Quite a show of force there. Clare, thanks for the update. Appreciate it.
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER:  All right. One person has died and dozens more sickened in a rare fungal outbreak linked to a Michigan paper mill. Ahead, we're speaking to the mill's vice president of operations.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
BERMAN:  New research this morning shows the trauma of gun violence in the U.S. extends well past the survivors and their communities. It is taking a toll on the nation's mental health. CNN's Jacqueline Howard has the details here.
 
Jacqueline, what are you learning? JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER:  Well, John, I can tell you sometimes after mass shooting events, mental health crisis lines tend to see an increase in calls or text messages related to gun violence. And one example of this is one study looked at the number of text messages sent to a crisis lifeline that involved mentions of gun violence the day after the Uvalde, Texas shooting. And in this study, the researchers said that they typically would forecast maybe a number of 77 text messages in that category. The day after Uvalde, they saw 159 text messages.
 
So, there was an increase. And we also know that many Americans across the country experienced gun violence firsthand. The Kaiser Family Foundation survey found that nearly one in five adults say a family member was killed by a gun. That same survey also found that about one in six adults have witnessed someone being shot. So, we can only imagine, John, the mental health toll that that has had on those many people across the country, John.
 
BERMAN:  These studies get to what people are seeing and feeling, Jacqueline. How is this affecting behavior? What are we seeing there?
 
HOWARD:  Yes. Well, John we also, in that same survey, found that most adults, 84 percent, say that they have taken precautions to reduce their risk of gun violence themselves and for their families. So, that same survey found 84 percent of adults say that they have talked to their kids about gun safety. They may have purchased a weapon themselves. They may be avoiding crowded areas or public transit. Places where they typically would go. But now they're avoiding them because of this risk of gun violence.
 
So, we are seeing people making changes in their everyday lives because of, sadly, at -- the toll that gun violence has had on this country, John.
 
BERMAN:  So concerned they have to change the way they live.
 
HOWARD:  Yes.
 
BERMAN:  Jacqueline Howard, thank you for that report.
 
Sara.
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
SIDNER:  All right. New developments this morning, in a deadly fungal outbreak linked to a Michigan paper mill. Officials now say one person has died and there are 97 confirmed or probable cases of what is called blastomycosis. All of the cases have been in Michigan's delta and the Menominee counties.
 
The infection is caused by the fungus Blastomyces. It lives in mostly moist sole -- soil and decomposing wooden leaves. And you can get it simply by breathing in the microscopic fungal spores. Joining us now is Brian Peterson, he's the vice president operations at the paper mill there.
 
I think that he is with us, although he may not be -- can you hear us? You're there. OK. Can you -- 
 
BRIAN PETERSON, EXEC AT MILL LINKED TO DEADLY FUNGUS OUTBREAK AND OPERATIONS VP AND MANAGER, BILLERUD ESCANABA MILL:  Yes, I can hear you just fine. Yes.
 
SIDNER:  Thank you so much for joining us. We really appreciate it. Can you tell me -- we know that one person has died. Have you been in contact at all with the contractor's family?
 
PETERSON:  We have -- I have not been contact with the contractor's family. We got news of that from the county, I think last week, and we are just now getting involved in the investigation. When he worked in the mill in the last -- this year? What he was doing in the mill as far as work goes, that kind of stuff. So, we're cooperating with the investigation at this point.
 
SIDNER:  Do you know how people are getting sick? There are now some 100 confirmed cases, somewhere around 97 to 100 confirmed cases. Do you know how they're getting it?
 
PETERSON:  Unfortunately, we don't. Since we were first told of this from county health in March 3rd, we put a full court press on trying to understand it. And as you said, blastomycosis is in wet soil. It's our understanding from talking to the CDC, there's no real other studies even close to this in the industry. So, we've invited a variety of experts. We're working towards the root cause. We invited NIOSH in to do what's called the health hazard analysis, which they got the first phase of that done. And we're working through those recommendations.
 
The next round of cleaning, we've decided to idle the mill to do. It's just too disruptive and there's too much risk to try to do the clean with people in the mill. So, we as -- this morning, are almost done idling the mill and we'll commence with that cleaning.
 
SIDNER:  OK. So. you've idled the mill. You're trying to clean to make sure these spores aren't in the air for people to get sick. Can you give me some sense of how the other 97 or so people are doing and what some of their symptoms might be? Have you learned that in your investigation?
 
PETERSON:  Well, I'm not an expert in blastomycosis, although I'm getting there fairly quick. So, I would encourage you to talk to the CDC about all the symptoms because it can be quite broad. But we've had, you know, people with very mild symptoms, taking medication and working just fine, up into, including you talked about the fatality.
 
So, it's a wide range. It has slowed down here in the last couple of weeks, as far as number of new cases go, but we're taking this with the utmost seriousness that to, you know, go ahead and idle and get what we know are these complex. Mostly around like ventilation systems, things like that which are very hard to clean in bigger buildings and areas where people were affected.
 
SIDNER:  I got to ask you. This is the first time I have heard about this. And I know, you know, it exists in the world, but has this ever happened? Have you ever heard about this happening at the plant, at the mill before?
 
PETERSON:  No, I have never heard, personally, of any outbreak like this. You know, it is native to this part of the world. I can't say there's never been one, but for sure, there's never been an outrage like this in this mill or any mill that we've been able to find.
 
SIDNER:  And do -- is there any sense that you believe that the spores were, you know, in sort of wet paper or sort of some of the some of the items in the mill or is this coming from the outside in?
 
PETERSON:  Talking to the CDC and NIOSH, because it's -- where it is originates from and its airborne, we, you know, we believe it had to come from outside somehow and then got into the air. I mean, if I look at all the affected cases or the affected people and employees, and then you start to map out where they work, you're really trying to understand where are -- what is in common with all these employees or contractors? You know, where have they been in common so we can try to get the root cause? And that's really pushed us towards, you know, the areas that we're going to clean.
 
SIDNER:  This is people's work. This is how people make a living at the mill. Can you give us some sense of when the will -- mill will be back fully functioning and safe enough for people to return?
 
PETERSON:  You know, right now we're planning up to three weeks to get the cleaning done and we think we can get that done. It's a very dynamic and evolving situation as you know. And so, we have people, as we're just getting the mill finished up idle this morning, we have experts that we worked with NIOSH to get in the mill for the cleaning, and we'll learn a lot as we go here in these next few days.
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
SIDNER:  Brian Peterson, thank you so much for coming on and explaining this. It is a really interesting and sad situation that's happened there at the mill with your employees. I appreciate your time.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  A community is demanding answers and also calling for justice after police say a simple mistake led to a teenager being shot. And the homeowner who pulled the trigger, released from police custody. We're going to speak to Attorney Ben Crump who's representing young Ralph Yarl and his family. Next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:00]