Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Mall Shooting in Texas; Japan, South Korea Seek to Deepen Cooperation; French Bakery in Rhode Island. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired May 09, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, lovely people. Happy Tuesday to you. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news.
 
We start today with a tough topic, a controversial one that leaves many in the United States divided. It`s the ongoing debate about gun control. 
 
This comes after a mass shooting unfolded at a shopping mall in Allen, Texas, about 25 miles north of Dallas. Eight people were killed at least 
 
 seven others wounded at the time of this reporting. 
 
According to the Gun Violence Archive, the United States has suffered at least mass shootings within the first five months of this year. This non-
 
 profit group and CNN define a mass shooting as one in which four or more people are shot.
 
Vigils and church services were set up in the city of Allen in support of the victims and their families as investigators were searching for answers. 
 
 In response to the tragedy, Texas Republican Governor Greg Abbott focused on the need for better help with mental health, stating, quote: We are 
 
 working to address that anger and violence by going to its root cause, which is addressing the mental health problems behind it, unquote. Abbott 
 
 also added, quote: People want a quick solution. The long-term solution here is to address the mental health issue, unquote.
 
For his part, President Biden on Sunday asked Congress to pass new gun control laws. Our Jeremy Diamond has more for us from the White House on 
 
 the president`s reaction and his continued call for actions on gun reform.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: The flag above the White House is once again flying at half staff, as we watch this all too familiar 
 
 ritual in the wake of yet another deadly mass shooting play out. President Biden putting out a statement offering his prayers to the victims and their 
 
 families and also thanking first responders for acting quickly and courageously. He says that federal law enforcement officials are offering 
 
 assistance to state and local authorities. But what we`re also hearing from President Biden is once again a call to action a call to enact the kind of 
 
 common sense gun reforms that President Biden believes are necessary. 
 
And he`s also making clear who he believes is responsible for the inaction on those efforts in Washington, saying in a statement, quote: Too many 
 
 families have empty chairs at their dinner tables. Republican members of Congress cannot continue to meet this epidemic with a shrug. Tweeted 
 
 thoughts and prayers are not enough. 
 
Once again, I asked Congress to send me a bill banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Enacting universal background checks. Requiring 
 
 safe storage. Ending immunity for gun manufacturers. I will sign it immediately. We need nothing less to keep our streets safe.
 
And President Biden in this statement also says that he believes the country has made some progress in addressing this issue, pointing to his 
 
 signing of that bipartisan safer communities act that sought to incentivize more red flag laws in the country and address mental health resources, but 
 
 he also makes clear that he believes that despite the nearly two dozen executive actions he has signed on this issue, he believes he`s now reached 
 
 the limit of his executive authorities and he says that the burden now rests with Congress. 
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, the White House.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: We head to Asia now where Japanese President Fumio Kishida made a historic visit to Seoul to meet South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol. It`s 
 
 the first time a Japanese leader has visited the capital in more than a decade, both nations look to strengthen relations while facing a growing 
 
 threat from North Korea.
 
Our Paula Hancocks has more from Seoul.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Japan and South Korea appear to be moving closer together at least at the government and leadership level. 
 
 Japan`s Prime Minister Fumio Kishida has ended a two-day visit to Seoul to meet his South Korean counterpart Yoon Suk Yeol.
 
And there were a number of important issues on the agenda North Korea and security issues in the region but also historical issues which date back to 
 
 the time when Japan colonized Korea. Now, for example, forced labor during wartime. This is an issue that President Yoon has been trying to resolve. 
 
 He has come under domestic criticism for that in a belief by some. Certainly, the more liberal part of the country that he is offering more 
 
 concessions to Japan than he is receiving in return. 
 
Now there were some hopes from the liberals that there would be another apology from Japan`s side for the colonial times. There was not but there 
 
 was a personal message of sympathy from Japan`s prime minister.
 
FUMIO KISHIDA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator): My heart aches as many people went through a very difficult and sad experience in the 
 
 harsh environment at that time.
 
HANCOCKS: Now, President Yoon said that there was a need to dispel the perception that Japan and South Korea could not take a single step forward 
 
 until all the historical issues had been completely resolved. 
 
Now, North Korea was also a very important issue and the increasing threat from the North. Now, we have heard repeatedly from Washington that they 
 
 would like to see their two allies in the region move closer together. Now, we have seen and heard from both leaders that they are information sharing. 
 
 That there is more of a security sharing process when it comes to the missile threat from North Korea and that is certainly being welcomed by 
 
 Washington.
 
Here`s President Yoon.
 
YOON SUK YEOL, SOUTH KOREAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Prime Minister Kishida and I shared the recognition that North Korea`s nuclear and missile 
 
 development poses a grave threat to peace and stability not only on the Korean peninsula and Japan but also throughout the world.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Ten-second trivia: 
 
The French word pain translates to which of these food items?
 
Bread, milk, eggs or beans?
 
On your grocery list, the French to English translation for pain is bread.
 
Now, when it comes to finding authentic French bakeries, Rhode Island maybe not the first place you`d look. But looky here, one French baker named 
 
 Belinda Quinn will make you think a wee bit different about the Ocean State. She came from Paris, opened a bakery in Newport and her shop sells 
 
 out within hours of opening every weekend. 
 
I sure hope my pate a croissants with it someday. Belinda, the French baker shares with us some of the secrets to the scrumptiousness of the pain au 
 
 chocolat.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BELINDA QUINN, CO-FOUNDER, LE BEC SURCE: We open at 7:00 and then we usually set out by 9:30, if not sometimes by 8:00, 8:30. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I come here pretty much every weekend.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I usually get here at around 6:30. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There`s always a line. I got here at 5:00 to 7:00 this morning, and there was already 20 people in line. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I had no idea that it would be so incredible. 
 
QUINN: It is quite difficult to make a good pain au chocolat at home if we don`t have the equipment, the ingredients and also the patients. You have 
 
 to be really patient to make a good pain au chocolat.
 
I met my husband in Paris and I decided to follow him and then to move to the U.S. When I came to Newport, my first impression was you the food it 
 
 was very different here and there is nothing for me authentic. So that`s why I decided I should really bring a touch of French.
 
I knew that it would work because I knew that people they would know the difference. They would taste the quality.
 
This is the day one when we mix all the ingredients and we make it into a dough. Day two, you do the lamination. You put -- you incorporate the 
 
 butter in the dough and then you shape the pain au chocolat. 
 
It`s a French butter because there is a high content of fat. If you use the wrong type of butter, it won`t create any layers in the pastry. 
 
All right, this is like 30 something layers. And then day three, it`s where you proof and you bake the particular.
 
So what makes the perfect pain au chocolate for me is when you buy in it, you have to taste this crispy crunchy layer on top and then inside, you 
 
 have to have this very light and flaky dough, and then the taste of dark chocolate. Some people, they would just tell me, reading that this is like 
 
 being in Paris again. I am proud of my French culture. I wanted to create my Le Bec Sucre to have this taste of French.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Leonardo Da Vinci`s Mona Lisa is one of the best known artworks in the world, right? But one thing that hasn`t been known, the mystery of the 
 
 location shown in the background of the iconic 16th century painting. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the puzzle has potentially been 
 
 solved.
 
Using virtual reconstruction and historical documents, art historian Silvano Vinceti claims the bridge behind Mona Lisa is the Romito Bridge in 
 
 the Tuscany region of Italy, in the town of Laterina. 
 
Problem is the Tuscan village of Ponte Buriano nearby is so convinced that the Mona Lisa bridge is in their village, that they`ve made it a key 
 
 feature of their local tourism campaign. Looks like this mystery that`s been debated for centuries just got more heated.
 
Did you know that the Mona Lisa was once accused of a crime? She was framed. Now, she`s in the Louvre Museum in Paris, seen by millions of 
 
 people every year.
 
Our special shout out today is going to Winter Garden, Florida, West Orange High School. 
 
Orange you`re glad you subscribe to our YouTube channel? Thanks for all the love and thanks for making us part of your day. Much love and many 
 
 blessings.
 
I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10. 
 
END