Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Ukrainian Forces Strike Vital Bridge Linking Crimea & Russia; China Breaks All-Time Temperature Record At 126 Degrees; At Least 41 Dead In South Korea Floods. Aired 2-2:30p ET

Aired July 17, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN ANCHOR: A potentially major blow to the global food market after Russia terminates a critical grain deal with Ukraine. What that means for food prices. This decision coming just hours after a bridge that's key to transporting supplies from Russia to Crimea is attacked. How that could impact the Kremlin's war?
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR: And Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal in damage control mode after calling Israel a "racist state." A comment House Democrats are calling unacceptable. We'll be speaking to one of the lawmakers who signed an open letter condemning her remark.
 
SANCHEZ: Plus, the Alabama woman who went missing after reporting a toddler walking on the interstate alone is back home. What police are now saying about this mystery? We're following these major developing stories and many more all coming in right here to CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
We're following two major developments in Russia's war in Ukraine. First, Vladimir Putin is now claiming that Ukraine's strike on a bridge that links Russia to occupied Crimea is "a terrorist attack." You can see in this video, part of the 12-mile-long Russian-built bridge was heavily damaged in a pre-Dawn attack.
 
This is a vital supply line for the Russian war effort. And just hours after the strikes, Russia announcing it is terminating its deal allowing Ukraine to export grain from its ports. The impact on the global food market could be devastating.
 
CNN's Alex Marquardt is live for us in Odessa, Ukraine. So, Alex, let's start with the bridge attack. This is a bridge that's been targeted before and it carries important significance to the Russians.
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it does, Boris. It was hit for the first time last October. Back then, the Ukrainians did not claim responsibility. They certainly have this time.
 
In fact, in a -- in a message that was kind of trolling of the Russians, the Ukrainian Security Services tweeted that the Kerch Bridge is asleep again. A reference to now to tax that have -- two attacks that have significantly damaged this vital bridge, both in terms of logistics and what it carries to and from Crimea.
 
But also, it is hugely symbolic. This was a personal project of Vladimir Putin after he annexed Crimea illegally back in 2014. He opened it himself just a couple of years later.
 
We did just hear from Putin a very short time ago, his first comments since this attack earlier today. He did call it a terrorist attack. He talked about the two Russian parents who were killed during this pre- Dawn attack, around 3:00 in the morning. Their young child was injured.
 
And he went on to say that they would be responding. That there would be a response. In the Defense Ministry right now -- the military is working up options.
 
Ukraine, again claiming responsibility in a way that we haven't really seen before when it comes to these brazen attacks. They don't often do that. They said that it was a joint operation between their Navy and the security services.
 
Russia adding a little bit more detail saying it was to surface or water -- or surface or drones on the water that carried out the strikes. And there was -- we did just get some imagery from the satellite company Maxar That shows the extent of the damage. I think we can put it up on the screen.
 
You can see there the roadway that has been primarily damaged. There's a dark spot. We believe that that is from the blast. This roadway is now certainly out of commission for cars and trucks. And we are told by Russia's Deputy Defense Minister that it will be several months before it is fully operational again.
 
At least until September 15 is when that car traffic can resume, and then not until November first when it will be fully operational. Both sides -- both the roadway and the train tracks came to a halt after the blast. The trains are now back up and running again, Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: And, Alex, do we know if this attack on the Kerch Bridge had something to do with Russia pulling out of its grain deal with Ukraine?
 <br>[14:05:00]
 
MARQUARDT: The Russians are saying no. That they're not related. They certainly did happen on a very -- this decision by Russia certainly did happen on a very significant day.
 
But, Boris, this was a long time coming. There were rumblings from the Russians that they weren't going to renew this deal. This deal has been in place for a year now and is brokered by the United Nations in Turkey, of course, between Russia and Ukraine so that Ukraine could export its grain to the world from here and Odessa and other ports that are not under Russian control.
 
That was an extraordinarily important deal that was brokered. It allowed Ukraine to export all the grain that has to support its economy. According to the United Nations, food prices came down 23 percent. Now, Russia has pulled out of this deal. And according to a UN official I spoke to earlier, it looks like their decision is pretty final, Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: And it could have major impacts for security on the Black Sea as well. Alex Marquardt, from the important port city of Odessa, thank you so much. Brianna.
 
KEILAR: Let's talk now about the global impact of Russia pulling out of the Ukrainian Green Deal a little bit more now. We have CNN's Anna Stewart with us. So, Anna, just talk to us a little bit about who this is going to affect the most.
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Well, sadly, Ukraine. Given they were able to export some 33 million tons under this deal. That was a huge revenue stream.
 
But really, Brianna, it's hard to see who wouldn't be affected if this deal remains off the table. And that's simply because Ukraine and Russia combined have such an important role in global food markets. I mean, combined, they represent 30 percent of the world's exported wheat, 20 percent of corn, and 75 percent of sunflower oil, they are huge when it comes to the fertilizer market as well so that touches on all food commodities.
 
And when we look at Ukraine, specifically, their exports well over half go to developing countries. So there will be a direct impact on those nations -- developing nations when it comes to their food supplies if this remains the case. But really we're looking at food prices potentially going back to where we saw them before that deal was reached last August.
 
Food prices since then have come down by some 20 percent. So, that's a big concern. We saw grain prices rising today around the world. They have come down a little bit. So, I wonder at this stage, whether there is some hope of a negotiation.
 
KEILAR: Can that deal be resurrected if there is some hope of a negotiation?
 
STEWART: Well, it's just a really interesting position we've seen today because clearly, we had the UN secretary general saying that he was hugely disappointed. He had written he says proposals to President Putin finding solutions because Russia feels this deal really wasn't helping them enough. He says. According to Russia, the sanctions meant that essentially they weren't able to export food and fertilizer as agreed.
 
Now, the UN say they've come up with proposals and clearly those haven't been accepted by President Putin. So, the -- both two sides seem to be on fairly solid ground at this stage. But looking at those weak prices, you have to question whether something is going on in the background.
 
KEILAR: All right. We'll keep tracking this. Obviously, impacting a lot of people. Anna Stewart, thank you. Boris? SANCHEZ: Just a few days before Israel's president is set to address Congress, some top Republican presidential candidates are taking part in the Christians United for Israel conference today. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis spoke just a short time ago. Mike Pence and Nikki Haley are up tonight. But noticeably, one person is absent. Donald Trump, the front-runner.
 
CNN's Kristen Holmes is there for us across the Potomac. So, Kristen, what did you hear from Florida's governor Ron DeSantis?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, he outlined a foreign policy agenda for -- if he were to become president for Israel for the Middle East. 1He touted his faith. And he aligned himself with some pro-Israel Trump administration policies. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL): It just shows you how the foreign policy elite in this town always missed the mark because for decades, they said, Middle East peace goes through the Israeli-Palestinian Arab conflict. You can never have peace in the Middle East unless you "solve that problem." I think the Abraham Accords show just the opposite.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And as you noted, Boris, there are several candidates here, the 2024 hopefuls. We'll hear from Mike Pence. We'll hear from Nikki Haley.
 
And all of this is an effort to woo evangelical voters. When I talk to several of these campaign advisors, they believe that there is a sect of evangelical voters who is looking for an alternative to former President Donald Trump, who right now is the front runner. He has been dominating in the polls.
 
And as you mentioned, Trump is not here today and that is because he's not invited. He was invited in years past to this event, so it is significant. Also is significant because it comes after Trump's skipping another evangelical conference in Iowa on last Friday.
 
They said there was a scheduling conflict. But he talked to a number of his advisors who said that he's not going to do these kinds of big group gatherings. These "campaign cattle calls."
 <br>[14:10:04]
 
But it's leaving a lot of evangelical voters that I've spoken to, concerned or even feeling snubbed that he's not reaching out to them. Now, I do want to be very clear, Trump is still wildly popular among evangelicals even heard here today. One speaker mentioned his name. Got a huge round of applause.
 
But they do believe -- and this is, again, campaign advisors for these other candidates, that there might be an opening within this group of critical voters, particularly for Republican primary who are looking for something different. And that's what we're going to talk to these voters about today. We'll keep you posted on where their heads are at after they hear the speakers.
 
SANCHEZ: Kristen Holmes, thanks for keeping an eye on that for us. Brianna.
 
KEILAR: In the meantime, a top Progressive Democrat's comments about Israel have prompted backlash from colleagues in her own party. Here is what House Progressive Caucus Chair Pramila Jayapal said on Sunday as she was addressing pro-Palestinian demonstrators.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. PRAMILA JAYAPAL (D-WA): We have been fighting to make it clear that Israel is a racist state, and that the Palestinian people deserve self-determination and autonomy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: The next day, Jayapal apologized and tried to clarify her comment. She said, "I do not believe the idea of Israel as a nation is racist." She added that the Netanyahu government has engaged in discriminatory and outright racist policies. That was her quote there.
 
A group of Jewish Democrats in the House have penned a draft letter condemning her remarks. "We will never allow anti-Zionist voices that embolden antisemitism to hijack the Democratic Party and country."
 
And we are joined now by one of the co-authors of that draft, Democratic Congressman Jared Moskowitz of Florida. Congressman, thank you so much for being with us today. Are her clarification and the apology there sufficient for you?
 
REP. JARED MOSKOWITZ (D-FL): Thanks for having me. Yes, listen. I'm very appreciative that the chairwoman clarified and apologized because obviously, the statement was outrageous to say an entire nation is racist, which gets to the foundation of Israel.
 
Listen. I think it's totally fair to criticize politicians, to criticize policies, right? We do that in our own country. We do that with our allies sometimes.
 
But to say an entire country is racist, which gets to the foundation, listen, it's why House leadership led by Hakeem Jeffries put out a statement. Israel is not a racist country. And I'm appreciative that she put out that clarification.
 
KEILAR: Have you spoken to her about this?
 
MOSKOWITZ: I have not yet spoken to her. I'm sure I will get a chance to do so when I see her on the floor when we have votes this evening.
 
KEILAR: As you said, it's one thing to criticize a policy. When you look at Netanyahu's policies, do you think that they are in the best interest of U.S. national security? MOSKOWITZ: Well, listen, you know. Israel is our number one ally in that region. And they're one of our number one, along with probably the UK as far as intelligent sharing. So, Israel is an indispensable ally.
 
You know, look, there are people in the coalition government that I fundamentally disagree with, and there are statements that they have made in the coalition government -- members of that government that I find outrageous. And so that's what I'm saying.
 
I think it's fair to criticize leaders. I think it's fair to criticize policies. But again, to go back and say an entire state -- the whole country is racist, I think is outrageous. And that's why I'm glad that she's clarified those comments.
 
KEILAR: Yes. No, certainly. And she's making that distinction there. When you -- when you took office in January, you said you were going to wait and see how these policies played out. Obviously, there were some folks who are raising questions about how things were going, how they were going to go. Now, what are you thinking as you look at some of these policies?
 
MOSKOWITZ: Well, listen. I'm for a two-state solution. I think that's very important. Obviously, you know, defending the State of Israel is extremely important, not just to me personally, but to the United States Congress and to the United States people.
 
But obviously, I'm for a two-state solution. I think that's important. I think the American people and the U.S. government led by President Biden have made it clear that we're for a two-state solution.
 
As far as the judicial reforms that are going on there. I still think we need to see where all of that lands. I mean, Lord knows look what's going on with the judiciary in our country, right?
 
We got you know Mitch McConnell stealing Senate seats. We got Supreme Court justices taking away rights for women that have existed for 50 years. And we got Supreme Court justices hanging out with people on their boats and trips and planes who have cases in front of them.
 
And so I think it's totally fair to -- for us to be asking these questions about an ally of the judiciary. But also I think it's fair, we'd be asking the same questions of our own judiciary.
 
And I think that's what the American people expect us to do. We obviously send a tremendous amount of foreign aid to a lot of our -- a lot of our allies. And so I think that gives us an ability to ask those questions.
 
KEILAR: I want to switch gears now. You are on the Oversight Committee. And there are two IRS whistleblowers who say an investigation into Hunter Biden was slow-walked. And they're going to be testifying on Wednesday.
 <br>[14:15:10] Do you have concerns about something, of course, your Republican colleagues very much zeroed in on which is this WhatsApp text message where Hunter Biden is invoking his father while he is looking for a commitment -- you know raising the question of if he was looking for payment from a Chinese business partner?
 
MOSKOWITZ: Yes. Well, first of all, my Republican colleagues in oversight which have turned the committee into a circus, you know, their first whistleblower turns out to be a Chinese foreign agent. Someone working with the Iranian regime and selling illegal Chinese weapons to the Libyans. And so, that obviously, questions the entire investigation process that they're willing to stoop to that level.
 
Additionally, you know, they're working with this guy now at the IRS. In the last administration, Republicans said that all these whistleblowers are part of the deep state, right? And we shouldn't listen to a word they say.
 
So, is Gary Shipley, the guy they've called from the IRS, is he a member of the deep state? Was he not paying his deep state dues? Did he disassociate from the deep state? Why do we believe anything he says?
 
And oh, by the way, the prosecutor David Weiss, who was appointed by Donald Trump, who has been leading that investigation, has already -- his questioned some of the things that Gary Shipley has said. So look, this is all in an effort to own Hunter Biden. You know, look, obviously, he's someone who struggled with certain things in his life. He -- you know lost his brother. At a young age, he lost his mom -- 
 
KEILAR: Well, let me -- let me ask -- let me ask you about that. No, he did -- yes, he lost his -- 
 
MOSKOWITZ: Sure.
 
KEILAR: Lost his sister, lost his mom, then lost his brother how to substance abuse issue, no doubt about this. People with substance abuse problems, obviously do things that people without them do not.
 
He could have been lying in this text message. That's entirely possible. Yes, Republicans stand to gain politically and have certainly seized on this issue. All of those things you were correct about.
 
But this text message, I mean, isn't it also important to get to the bottom of this, especially when you have so many Democrats who are concerned about President Trump's adult children and his son-in-law who were using their positions for financial gain? Are they upholding that same standard now on this?
 
MOSKOWITZ: Well, Trump's children were in the administration, number one.
 
KEILAR: True.
 
MOSKOWITZ: And number two, Trump's son-in-law, who was also in the administration. In the administration, right couldn't pass security clearance and then they overruled -- 
 
KEILAR: Some of them were -- just to be clear. Some of them weren't. Some of them were not. In this case, at the time, you're correct. Hunter Biden's father was not in the administration. But of course, he would later go on to be president.
 
MOSKOWITZ: Right.
 
KEILAR: So I mean, these are obviously someone with a political future. I mean -- and this is a real text message. Is this something that it's important to get to the bottom of?
 
MOSKOWITZ: Well, as you pointed out, OK? You know, we have a text message. Look, there's a prosecutor that's been looking at issues like this now for five years. And so, if Hunter Biden violated the law, then just like we say about Donald Trump, no one's above the law, then obviously, the prosecutor needs to bring charges just like they did on the tax issue and on the gun issue.
 
You know, that being said, we don't know if Joe Biden was sitting next to Hunter. That's the by -- the bipolar thing that my colleagues do. They come out and they say, Hunter Biden, you know, he does drugs, and he does this and he does that. And then they find a text message, and they want to treat like it came down from Mount Sinai on a tablet from Moses.
 
We have no idea what this text message means. And so they're not doing real oversight. They're not trying to get to the bottom of this. They're trying to pump up Trump's numbers in the polls by going after the Biden family trying to turn them into the Sopranos.
 
It's a complete joke, OK? And it's not the same as what went on in the Trump administration with Jared Kushner taking two billion dollars from the Saudis.
 
KEILAR: Look. And as we look at this text, entirely possible that Joe Biden was not sitting there, as Hunter Biden is alleging. He alleges that he was in the text. Entirely possible, he wasn't. to your point there. Raising some ethical considerations, certainly, at the very least here.
 
But I do, Congressman, want to thank you so much. This is obviously going to be a day of some drama on Wednesday, and obviously, a lot going on with Israel as well this week. So, we thank you so much for your time.
 
MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.
 
KEILAR: Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Flooding and extreme heat are not just plaguing the United States, it's hitting the entire globe. In fact, dozens have lost their lives after torrential rain hit South Korea, a nightmare scenario that unfolded for many of them when we come back.
 
And in Europe, a second major heatwave in just a week sparking fears of a major wildfire outbreak. We have a report from Rome. Next.
 
And later, a new study that suggest seniors living in the East and Southeast regions in the United States are more likely to have Alzheimer's disease. We're going to tell you what the researchers say may be behind that data point. You're watching CNN NEWS CENTRAL. We're back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:23:44]
 
SANCHEZ: U.S. climate envoy John Kerry is in China today as the world's two biggest polluters try to fix fractured ties. He's meeting with his counterparts to discuss what more can be done to slow down climate change and bring down rising temperatures. And on the very same day he arrived, China broke its all-time heat record. Clocking in at 126 degrees. CNN's Anna Coren is live in Hong Kong for us.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This face-to-face meeting is important. It's about resuming their joint working group on climate cooperation before COP 28th in Dubai at the end of November. Kerry said it was imperative that China and the U.S. make real progress in the next four months.
 
COREN (voiceover): Kerry also said. In the next three days, we hope we can begin taking big steps that will send a signal to the world about the serious purpose of China and the U.S. to address a common risk, threat, challenge to all of humanity created by humans themselves. Kerry will meet with other Chinese officials over the next few days, possibly even Chinese leader Xi Jinping.
 
Kerry and Xi met when he was U.S. Secretary of State under President Obama. Experts believe that meeting would send an important signal of Beijing's commitment to tackling global warming.
 
COREN: Anna Coren, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[14:25:09]
 
SANCHEZ: The extreme heat that's gripping much of Southern Europe and the Mediterranean is forecast to intensify by midweek. And meteorologists are expecting more temperature records to be broken and more power grids to be under threat. CNN's Barbie Latza Nadeau is in Rome for us.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You know you would never guess by the sheer number of tourists here at the Trevi Fountain in central Rome, just how hot it is across southern Italy and across southern Europe. These people are doing exactly what Italian and other authorities are telling them not to do. They're outside under the blazing sun during the hottest time of the day.
 
It's interesting or perhaps not. You don't see a lot of Italians and other Southern Europeans outside. They're used to this heat. They know that you need to stay inside, stay hydrated, not drink alcohol, not drink big meals when the weather is so hot.
 
Summers are always hot in the Mediterranean. This may be a record- breaking year. And we're seeing the effects of it on the Italians on the Greeks on the Spanish but certainly not on the tourists.
 
Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Rome.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: In Asia and South Korea, at least 41 people have died after heavy rainfall caused flooding and devastating landslides as thousands have been evacuated from their homes. CNN's Michael Holmes has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT: Working in mud and against the clock. Rescuers in South Korea pump water from a flooded tunnel. Acts of water redirected from the once clogged underpass revealing some of the vehicles trapped inside.
 
Dashcam video shows how quickly the tunnel filled up on Saturday. Local authorities say a levee broke after days of heavy rain across the country sending a rush of water through the underpass. Some cars barely escaping the deluge.
 
But authorities say 15 vehicles including a bus were trapped in the tunnel along with their drivers and passengers. Divers have been painstakingly searching for them and have retrieved multiple bodies from the same. Many family members of those thought to be missing gathered at a nearby hospital. Their misery compounded by the agony of a long wait for information.
 
One man says he is speechless. And says he hasn't eaten for hours while waiting for authorities to brief him. The tragedy has shocked South Korea. Some people are saying the government should have been better prepared after last year's torrential rains, which were the worst in 115 years.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: Our thanks to Michael Holmes for that report. Brianna.
 
KEILAR: Nominations for military positions are not the only thing that is being blocked in the Senate right now. There are dozens of State Department nominees that are also stuck in limbo. And today, Secretary of State Tony Blinken is urging lawmakers to get moving. We'll have details ahead on that.
 
And from child care assistance ending to student loan payments restarting, many Americans are just months away from significant added financial pressures. We're going to break it all down. Next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)