Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Biden To Republicans As Shutdown Looms: "Do Your Job"; Corporate America To DC: Don't Shutdown; Studios, Writers In "Final Phase" To End Strike; Sen. Bob Menendez Vows To Fight Charges Against Him, His Wife; Rep. Andy Kim Announces Plan To Challenge Menendez For Senate; Culinary Workers to Hold Strike Vote: Second Republican Presidential Debate Tuesday; New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez Scheduled To Appear In Court On Wednesday; Storm Ophelia Winding Down; Biden Administration Announces Relief For Venezuelans In The U.S.; Megan Rapinoe's Legacy. Aired 7-8a ET

Aired September 24, 2023 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:00:34]
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST: Listen to this story out of Florida. A 200-mile joyride ended with a high-risk traffic stop. Also, a huge surprise. Deputies said that they were stunned to find a 10-year-old boy and his 11-year-old sister hop out of this stolen car near Gainesville as they surrounded it.
 
Look at this. You can see, see the little hands there? Those are the kids with their hands up.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN HOST: Look, the sheriff's office says the pair stole their mother's car after she took away their electronic devices. The mom drove three hours from her North Port home to pick them up. Police say mom didn't pursue criminal charges so the two are not behind bars.
 
But honestly, I'm trying to think of what my mom would do. I almost would want to be behind bars.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes, I'm saying that they might wish they were behind bars when they got home.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, exactly. I can't imagine. 200 miles away too. Why they just go around the corner.
 
BLACKWELL: I don't know. It could have been 2 miles for me.
 
JIMENEZ: Ye.
 
BLACKWELL: It had been the same result once I got home, right?
 
All right, next hour of CNN This Morning starts right now.
 
JIMENEZ: What's going on everyone? Welcome to CNN This Morning. It's Sunday, September 24th. I'm Omar Jimenez in for Amara Walker. BLACKWELL: I'm Victor Blackwell. Worked so well yesterday, we're doing it again today. Thank you for joining us this morning. Here is what we are watching for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And it's time for the Republicans to start doing the job America elected them to do.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: Lawmakers are up against the clock and desperately working on a deal to fund the government ahead of a looming shutdown. The warning coming from some of America's largest corporations about what a shutdown could do to the economy.
 
JIMENEZ: And Ophelia has moved inland after bringing heavy rain and flooding to parts of the east coast. The areas we're watching for more flooding and the threat for severe storms today.
 
BLACKWELL: New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez is facing growing calls from his party to resign after his indictment on bribery charges. How he's responding to the calls to step down, even from politicians in his state.
 
JIMENEZ: And Hollywood executives say they've sent their best and final offer to writers as they work to end a strike that's paralyzed the industry. What we're learning about how close both sides are to a deal?
 
BLACKWELL: The government shutdown is ticking closer and closer, and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy still lacks the support from his party to avert one. A handful of appropriation bills are set to hit the House floor next week, but without the critical backing from several Republicans, the stopgap measure is expected to be dead in the water.
 
JIMENEZ: And some in the Republican Party worry that the longer these hardliners hold out, the more power they're giving to the Senate and the Biden administration.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. GARRET GRAVES (R), LOUISIANA: Any of these efforts to delay or to hold out further empowers the Senate, the Democrat majority in the Senate, and further empowers the White House.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Now, President Biden is weighing in with less than a week left to go. CNN's Jasmine Wright joins us now from the White House. So Jasmine, what is the President saying as Capitol Hill tries to figure out how to move forward?
 
JASMINE WRIGHT, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, Omar. Well, President Biden is not mincing his words. He called on Republicans to start doing their jobs and avert a government shutdown. Now he gave those remarks last night at a congressional black caucus dinner after it seemed like Saturday during the day, not much progress was made by House Republicans trying to move forward and trying to avert a shutdown.
 
So President Biden, in his remarks, he really slammed that group of Republicans, maybe basically a handful who are against a shorter stopgap measure to get the government funded in the short term so that longer discussions can happen in the past.
 
And he accused Republicans of trying to sow enough discord that they are willing to shut the government down. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: Just a few months ago, after a long negotiation between myself and the new speaker, we agreed a spending levels of government will fund essential domestic and national security priorities while still, while still cutting the deficit by $1 trillion over the next decade.
 
Now, a small group of extreme Republicans don't want to live up to the deal. So now everyone in America could be forced to pay the price. Funding the government, one of those basic responsibilities of Congress and it's time for the Republicans to start doing the job America elected them to do.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[07:05:07]
 
WRIGHT: Now, those were strong words from the president there, but of course it's going to be difficult for Republicans to do that because of their sharp party decisions. Now, one question going forward into this next week is how or if President Biden is going to step in and try to help the effort.
 
We know just at least part of the week he's going to be on the West Coast, also in Michigan. Now, on the Senate side, we know that Senate Democrats are moving forward with their own short-term stopgap measure that is likely to be finished before that Friday deadline when the government would be no longer to fund itself.
 
But the question is whether or not they pass it. If it then goes to the House and whether or not the House decides to accept it and try to pass it or fight it, leading into more discord. So basically the president, the White House, American, the economy, we're all basically hanging the balance until the Senate and the House try to find some sort of resolution.
 
Omar, Victor?
 
JIMENEZ: I wonder if it's not figured out by this time next week, the government would be shut down. Jasmine Wright, thank you.
 
Corporate America is very worried about what a lengthy government shutdown could mean for Americans.
 
BLACKWELL: They're warning Congress that if a deal is not agreed to, then a shutdown could be far-reaching across America's economy.
 
CNN's Matt Egan walks us through their biggest concerns.
 
MATT EGAN, CNN BUSINESS REPORTER: Victor and Omar, CEOs have a simple message for Washington. Don't shut down the government. But business leaders, they know better. And they are preparing for what they fear could be a long and chaotic shutdown.
 
Executives say that this is the last thing the economy needs right now. On top of inflation and labor strikes, high borrowing costs, this would be just one more headache. And a self-inflicted one at that.
 
Chamber of Commerce Executive Neil Bradley told me, we are deeply concerned. The concern is growing almost by the day. Because once we're in a shutdown, there doesn't seem to be a clear path out.
 
Another trade group executive said, we don't want the unpredictability that comes from a shutdown. It's just not good for business. And that same message was echoed by other business leaders I spoke to.
 
Now economists say a shutdown should be manageable for the economy at large. Goldman Sachs sees just a tiny hit to GDP for each week that a shutdown lasts. And history shows the stock market barely flinches during a government shutdown.
 
Case in point, the S&amp;P 500 actually surged more than 10 percent during the record long shutdown that started in late 2018. Still, government shutdown would cause real world negative consequences. For example, federal workers deemed non-essential, they would get furloughed.
 
Air traffic controllers and TSA officers would have to work without pay, threatening travel delays across the country. That's why the U.S. Travel Association estimates a shutdown would cost the travel economy as much as $140 million a day.
 
Food safety inspections by the FDA could be delayed. National parks may suffer staffing shortages if they're not closed altogether. And this is interesting. Key economic indicators on inflation and unemployment would be interrupted. That would leave the Federal Reserve flying blind, at least somewhat, as it makes major decisions on interest rates.
 
Now publicly, business groups are urging Republicans and Democrats to come together to keep the government open. Privately, though, there's growing frustration at Republicans as House GOP infighting spills out into the open.
 
Regardless of who gets blamed, hopefully, if there's a shutdown, it's a brief one. Or better yet, no shutdown at all. Victor and Omar?
 
BLACKWELL: All right, Matt, thanks so much.
 
I'm joined now by the president of the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, Maya MacGuineas. Maya, good morning to you. I read the transcript of an interview you did back after the debt ceiling fight, predicting that we'd be on the brink now at the end of September. Considering all that we've heard in the reporting from Capitol Hill, are you convinced that we're headed toward a shutdown?
 
MAYA MACGUINEAS, PRESIDENT, COMMITTEE FOR A RESPONSIBLE FEDERAL BUDGET: I'm not convinced at all. I'm gravely worried that we are, but I still think there's a path out of here. I do think just the fact that we're talking about a shutdown is a failure in so many ways. And just a few months after we were talking about an even worse scenario, defaulting.
 
And the reason is, I think this isn't even Republican versus Democrat and House versus Senate. This is a moment where we need to be showing the rest of the world that we are able to govern. And the fact that we can't fund our own government and are possibly going to shut down is really a warning sign to others that the U.S. doesn't have its act together.
 
So, that's the problem as I see it right now. And it happens whether we shut down or not.
 
BLACKWELL: And you said that the budget process is fundamentally broken. It is 7:00 a.m. on a Sunday morning. So I'm going to ask you to explain this in the cleanest way possible. What needs to be fixed without going too deep into the weeds?
 <br>[07:10:05]
 
MACGUINEAS: OK, good. Does everyone have their coffee?
 
BLACKWELL: Correct.
 
MACGUINEAS: Because it is -- it's kind -- it's a wonky topic. No, the point is that in order to get the budget back on track, we have to actually pass budgets. The House Budget Committee just passed their budget many months late. The Senate Budget Committee never bothered to do so.
 
Then we have this big deal around the debt ceiling, where we put in place at least some top line spending numbers. Right now, we have the House saying those are caps. We want to go lower, but they can't decide what they want to do. And the Senate has actually busted through the caps and is spending $14 billion above what those caps are.
 
What we need is to put in place a fiscal blueprint that starts by passing broad parameters of a budget. It needs to have reasonable metrics, which means it doesn't let the debt grow on unmanaged, which is where we are now and why there's a big focus on this issue. And we need to have things like auto CRs, automatic continuing resolutions.
 
So we don't even have the possibility of shutting down. But if they can't agree on an actual budget, then we would just continue to fund the government at last year's levels. We need to put backup processes in place because we know the polarization is so bad and our lawmakers aren't able to compromise and get a lot of things done.
 
We need to have some backfill. So we're not at these huge brinkmanship fights on such a regular basis. BLACKWELL: When Democrats were in control of the House, Republicans were very critical of the omnibus process, just one massive piece of legislation, north of $1 trillion, passing all these at once instead of 12 individual appropriations bills as they're attempting to do now. Is that latter process still possible considering what we're watching in this fight instead of the omnibus that the Democrats led through when they passed these funding bills?
 
MACGUINEAS: I think they have demonstrated both the House and the Senate that they're not going to be able to pass 12 individual appropriations and certainly not at the cap levels that were set as part of the debt ceiling deal. The fact that we haven't passed those appropriations individually in so many years is another sign that our basic budget process is broken.
 
And the problem is Republicans are right to say that omnibus is our poor policy. They keep us from actually going through the programs evaluating what's working. Evaluating our national priorities, figuring out how to spend money and how to pay for things that the basic exercise of budgeting is supposed to require.
 
So omnibuses are terrible policy, but my guess is at the end of this calendar year, right now, we're dealing with the end of the fiscal year, but come December, I wouldn't be surprised if we had another omnibus. And keep in mind, here's a little warning.
 
Even if we get through this government shutdown, there's a chance we face a shutdown scenario again in December. So we just have to work through these things and come through an agreement and get onto the actual issues that governing involves, not these continued brinkmanships and last minute deals.
 
BLACKWELL: Matt just detailed the potential damage to the private sector, what the business community is concerned about if there's a shutdown. Is there damage to the government, to the public sector beyond reputational that we keep coming to this brink and potentially going into shutdowns?
 
MACGUINEAS: It's interesting. In order -- when we have a government shutdown, we define who the essential workers and programs are. And so, in the end, most of the things that affect people in their daily lives continue uninterrupted.
 
National defense is still there. People still get their social security checks. The government is doing the core functions. There are, of course, the huge disruptions. If you have a plan to a national park, you're going to be pretty angry about this.
 
But in most ways, it's not a big disruption and it has a small effect on the economy in the short term, but because everybody is paid and those programs start again, most of that money is actually made up in the 2nd quarter after you open. So, it's very disruptive.
 
It's very disruptive for government workers, for people who are trying to plan and make long-term strategic decisions, for contractors who may not get paid. But ultimately, I would say the real problem with the shutdown isn't just those disruptions of the cost. It really is about the signal we're sending around the world.
 
And we have to take a serious look that if the U.S. wants to remain the strongest country in so many different ways, we have to actually demonstrate how you govern, how you make decisions, how you're fiscally responsible, all things that are getting neglected in the budget process right now.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes, just a few days left to make a deal, at least on potentially continuing resolution, so we don't run out of money.
 
Maya MacGuineas with the Committee for Responsible Federal Budget, thank you so much for your time.
 
JIMENEZ: Back on the picket lines and back to the table. Today, Hollywood studios and writers are in the final phase of negotiations to end the strike, potentially. Hollywood's striking writers are meeting with the heads of four major studios.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal has more on the negotiations from Los Angeles.
 <br>[07:15:02]
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Omar, Victor, this is what writers have been waiting to hear for about five months now. WGA negotiators and Hollywood studios are in that final phase of negotiations. And according to my colleague, Oliver Darcy, the deal could come by the end of the weekend. So very soon.
 
The two parties spent Saturday negotiating for the fourth consecutive day and sources telling CNN that while the heads of the four major studios, including Warner Brothers Discovery, CNN's parent company, NBC Universal, Disney and Netflix, they were no longer in the room on Saturday, but they were engaged in that negotiation process.
 
Now, this strike that has paralyzed the entertainment industry has also had a major economic impact. Some estimates indicate $5 billion in an economic impact, and this has affected not just Hollywood, but really many, many other industries.
 
A lot of the writers that I've talked to have told me, look, we are ready to return to work. But after a deal is reached between these two parties, WGA members still have to ratify the new contract. And furthermore, because the actors are also on strike, a deal doesn't necessarily mean that all productions will go back to normal.
 
But some in the industry do believe that a deal with the writers could speed up that process for the SAG-AFTRA negotiations. And look, overall, it's been very difficult over the last few months for the -- people in the industry. And so now, hope is finally in the horizon. Victor, Omar?
 
JIMENEZ: Camila, thank you.
 
Still ahead, Senator Bob Menendez is facing even more calls to step down in the wake of Friday's indictment. Plus, Ophelia is now a post- tropical cyclone after moving inland over North Carolina Saturday. But rough weather is still expected in some coast states. We'll bring the latest forecast.
 
BLACKWELL: And soccer star Megan Rapinoe will take the field one last time for the U.S. Women's national team today before she retires. Her legacy and what she's leaving ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:21:03]
 
JIMENEZ: Senator Bob Menendez has vowed to fight bribery charges against him and his wife, but he's facing a growing chorus of voices from within his own party to resign from the Senate. Now, according to Senate Democratic Caucus rules, he stepped down from his position on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and New Jersey Congressman Andy Kim has already announced he plans to challenge Menendez for his seat in the next election.
 
So joining me now to discuss is Brent Johnson, political reporter for the New Jersey Star-Ledger. Thanks for taking the time. Good to see you.
 
I want to start with Governor Phil Murphy. He wrote, "The alleged facts are so serious that they compromise the ability of Senator Menendez to effectively represent the people of our state. Therefore, I'm calling for his resignation".
 
That's similar to what we've heard from other top state Democrats. You recently wrote, It all sounds like the beginning of a long and nasty political stalemate for a suddenly troubled New Jersey Democratic Party. So, what do you mean by that? Bring us into your world here.
 
BRENT JOHNSON, POLITICAL REPORTER, THE STAR-LEDGER: Well, New Jersey is a state that is run almost entirely by Democrats, all levels of government. It's been the party in power for many years now. And this is something that really shook the core of the New Jersey Democratic Party.
 
Menendez has easily won all throughout his time in the Senate, and they stood by him seven years ago when he was charged on corruption charges the first time, something that didn't end up -- he didn't end up getting convicted. But this time it was different.
 
It took a few hours for Democrats to make this decision, but a number of top officials in the state all came out and said it was time for him to step down. So this is really shaken politics in the state, which is -- which the government's run by Democrats.
 
JIMENEZ: And what are your points there, I mean, I think that's one of the most interesting things. I mean, this is the second time Senator Bob Menendez has been hit with corruption-related charges in less than 10 years.
 
As you mentioned, he wasn't convicted back in 2018. But what is different about the charges this time around, where some of those same allies that were standing by him are now saying this may be a step too far? JOHNSON: I was speaking to a number of Democratic officials in the state privately, and they were saying that behind the scenes, they were shocked at the breadth of these charges to see gold bars and searches on Google for what a gold bar is worth, pictures of money, stuffed into a jacket. It just -- it was much more alluring and controversial. And you could really see things this time.
 
And also his poll numbers in New Jersey had already started to go down as there were whispers of an investigation in recent months. So it was a whole culmination of those things. It just felt different this time.
 
JIMENEZ: And, well, obviously, you know, what's come out in the indictment is something that people outside of New Jersey are reading and maybe getting a glimpse of for the first time as far as New Jersey politics.
 
But while he's a sitting U.S. Senator, he represents New Jersey and New Jersey isn't necessarily new to corruption or alleged corruption. So contextualize this case within cases the state has seen in the past and why this indictment may stand out.
 
JOHNSON: Well, New Jersey is a state where the cliche of the joke is that along with Illinois, few states are as corrupt as this. We've had cases all throughout the years of top politicians being charged with similar things and indicted.
 
This is different. This is a sitting U.S. senator. It's the 2nd time he has faced an indictment. Again, it was -- the culmination of everything coming together. What's different about this is there's visuals, there's pictures, the allegations are widespread -- or are wide-ranging and it just felt like Democrats felt different this time. Yes, it's a state that's known for corruption, but this really stands out.
 
JIMENEZ: I was going to say, I worked in Illinois before this, and I feel like Illinois and New Jersey have that bond, unfortunately -- 
 
JOHNSON: Yes.
 
JIMENEZ: -- for the folks in those states. Now, last thing I want to ask before we go is, obviously, Congressman Andy Kim announced he was going to launch a challenge against Senator Menendez. How serious is that? How serious of a -- what does that move mean symbolically, that he is stepping into the race here?
 <br>[07:25:06]
 
JOHNSON: Well, one, it happened the day after these were announced. So there wasn't a lot of waiting. Kim jumped right into the fold. And the fact that a sitting Democratic congressman is challenging a sitting U.S. Senator -- that's a Democratic U.S. Senator. That means a lot, especially in the state where Democrats are in control.
 
It means that the House, you know, there's chaos in the House. But, you know, you don't count Bob Menendez out. He beat charges before, he's had a long career at every level of government. And if anybody would fight this, Bob Menendez is the kind of person who would stand up.
 
JIMENEZ: And that's the posturing he's had so far saying he's not going anywhere.
 
JOHNSON: Yes.
 
JIMENEZ: We will see. Brent Johnson, thank you.
 
BLACKWELL: Still ahead, Ophelia is expected to dump heavy rain and bring some strong winds across parts of the northeast today. We have the specifics ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: Coming up on 30 minutes past the hour now, five things to watch this week. President Biden will travel to Michigan Tuesday, where it's expected to walk the picket line with striking autoworkers. This historic appearance underscores the political implications of the strike, which is entering its second week.
 <br>[07:30:04]
 
More than 50,000 hospitality workers could soon walk off a job in Las Vegas. The Culinary and Bartenders Union have scheduled a strike vote for this Tuesday as they negotiate with casino and hotel employees for a new five-year deal. Because they are currently working under expired contracts, they have the option to strike whenever they choose.
 
The second Republican presidential debate will be held in California this week. And so far, six of the candidates say they've qualified and will be on the debate stage. It could be a make-or-break moment as polls continue to show Former President Trump with a commanding lead, although he did not participate in the first debate.
 
New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez is scheduled to appear in court on Wednesday after being indicted on federal bribery charges. As we mentioned, Menendez is facing growing calls from his party to resign, but he's maintained his innocence.
 
And the big one this week, the potential for a government shutdown. If lawmakers cannot reach a deal, the government will run out of money at 11:59 p.m. Saturday. If a shutdown occurs, nonessential federal workers would be furloughed, national parks and monuments would close, and we could see impacts to national food and housing assistance programs.
 
JIMENEZ: So much to keep an eye on, including, right now, storm Ophelia is winding down, but not before leaving a mess and flooding behind on the East Coast. CNN's Polo Sandoval is in Seaside Heights, New Jersey with a look at the conditions.
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Ophelia will continue to impact millions of Americans, specifically throughout parts of the northeast into Sunday as the remnants of the storm will continue to affect states like New York, potentially up to Maine, according to meteorologists, and even here in the State of New Jersey, where on Saturday, we saw businesses up and down that iconic boardwalk actually shudder and close their doors because of the storm.
 
And in fact, officials had actually closed off access to the beach section hoping to deter any individuals from actually accessing some of the coastline here. In fact, if you look off in the distance, you can see some of those windward waves and what it really looked like on Saturday here as authorities do continue to expect these conditions or at least similar conditions to continue into Sunday. But they certainly are hopeful that they won't be as bad as what we experienced earlier in the weekend. Back to you.
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Polo, thanks so much.
 
CNN's Allison Chinchar is here now. We see the wind challenging Polo there, created some damage, caused some problems, but there's still more ahead. Tell us about it.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, especially the rain. The rain is really going to be the big component of this moving forward. You've still got rainbands sliding across not only New Jersey but also Pennsylvania, New York, even into Massachusetts. And we are starting to see it finally beginning to wrap up across Virginia. Virginia and North Carolina have had very impressive rainfall totals from this storm.
 
Hartford, Virginia, picking up over five and a half inches. Same thing with Portsmouth, Virginia. Even Raleigh, North Carolina, however, picking up over four inches of rain. Now, for Raleigh, it's done. But now, we start to see that flood threat begin to shift a little bit farther north. So, areas of New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, those are going to be the concerns, especially for coastal flooding for today.
 
This system is eventually going to push back out over open water, but really not until later into the day Monday. That means from until then, you've still got all of those heavy rainbands that can continue to make their way across the northeast. So, a lot of these areas expecting to pick about two to four inches of rain total as we finish out the rest of day Monday. So, you've got that system there.
 
We're also keeping an eye on the potential for severe storms across the Central U.S. Already several of these ongoing, we've had a severe thunderstorm watch already this morning across the Ark-La-Tex region. More of those are going to continue, but they just shift a little bit farther south and east. So, the main target for today and into Monday morning is going to include Dallas, all the way down towards San Antonio, also includes Northwestern Louisiana. So, places like Shreveport.
 
Now, the main concerns and biggest threats with this particular storm are going to be damaging winds, the potential for some large hail and, yes, even an isolated tornado or two, it's not out of the question to perhaps get a tornado watch maybe at some point later today or even a subsequent severe thunderstorm watch like the one we have right now that could possibly extend into some of these other places.
 
The timeline for most of these stories, gentlemen, is going to be -- or storms, gentlemen, is going to be late this afternoon and continuing through the evening hours.
 
BLACKWELL: OK. Thank you, Allison.
 
Still ahead, how the Biden administration is working to expand humanitarian relief for Venezuelans already in the U.S. and how it's expected to ease the burden on New York City, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:39:01]
 
BLACKWELL: Border crossings are rising at the U.S. southern border. And now, the Biden administration is extending temporary legal status to thousands of Venezuelans living in the United States.
 
JIMENEZ: It will make them eligible for work permits, which is exactly what New York City officials have been asking for. Here is CNN's Gloria Pazmino.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): A window of hope and light for her family. The start of independence. That's what Maria Fernanda Calero Cabriles says a recent change in policy by the Biden administration will mean for her family.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We are very happy about this. It's something we have been waiting for.
 
PAZMINO (voiceover): The Department of Homeland Security announced this week it would expand a form of humanitarian relief known as Temporary Protective Status to Venezuelans residing in the U.S. on or before July 31st. Lawyers here at Project Rousseau, a not-for-profit organization that provides legal help to migrants say they expect to fill hundreds of applications this week.
 <br>[07:40:00]
 
ANDREW HEINRICH, FOUNDER AND SUPERVISING ATTORNEY, PROJECT ROUSSEAU: First of all, it means a way to start building and rebuilding their lives. They are able to seek out work right away, they are able to start supporting their families and they're potentially able to find housing of their own.
 
PAZMINO (voiceover): A Department of Homeland Security official anticipates 472,000 Venezuelans will be newly eligible for the status. Like this new mom, who tells me she wants to provide for her baby without relying on a government handout. And Cabriles and her husband who say they fled persecution in Venezuela.
 
PAZMINO: You want to work?
 
MARIA FERNANDA CALERO CABRILES (through translator): Yes. That is what we came to the country to do, to work.
 
PAZMINO (voiceover): New York City Mayor Eric Adams calls the move a good starting point, but says only a quarter of asylum seekers in the city's care will qualify for the status.
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS, NEW YORK CITY: We have approximately 60,000 total asylum seekers in our care. We have about approximately 15,000 that are eligible.
 
PAZMINO (voiceover): So far, Adams estimates more than 160,000 migrants have been processed by New York City's shelter system since last spring. And nearly 60,000 of them are still in the city's care. In the meantime, migrant crossings at the southern border continue to increase.
 
SHERIFF TOM SCHMERBER, MAVERICK COUNTY: They keep on coming.
 
PAZMINO (voiceover): The Sheriff Schmerber says on Wednesday alone, about 3,000 migrants crossed near Eagle Pass, Texas. Some of them waiting in the river bank of the Rio Grande waiting for a chance to cross.
 
They're fleeing the terror of a dictatorship, this man says. He's willing to risk his life.
 
Reporting in New York, Gloria Pazmino, CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Still ahead for us, two-time women's World Cup winner Megan Rapinoe will finish her 17-year international career later today. A look at her legacy next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:46:13]
 
JIMENEZ: Soccer star and two-time World Cup winner Megan Rapinoe is set to play her final U.S. women's national team match today in friendly against South Africa. She's proven time and again she's not just a firebrand on the field, her off the field achievements have made just as many headlines from fight over equal pay, to kneeling on the field multiple times after George Floyd's murder in 2020 and of course, her battles with Former President Donald Trump.
 
CNN's Sports Analyst and USA Today Sports Columnist Christine Brennan joins us live from Washington, D.C. Christine, good to see you.
 
But yesterday, look, was an emotional day for Megan Rapinoe just ahead of today's final match. She's become an icon in many ways. But after the U.S. women crashed out of the World Cup and lost to Sweden this most recent time-out, you talked about Megan Rapinoe's role in the fight for equal pay and how that will be part of a legacy that travels far and wide in what is still very misogynistic world of soccer. What is her role in that legacy and what difference do you think she's made?
 
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, CNN SPORTS ANALYST AND SPORTS COLUMNIST: Omar, I think it's just huge. And I think 50 years from now, 100 years from now, if there are history books or holograms or whatever kids are studying, Megan Rapinoe will be a part of that conversation. She really will.
 
Because that equal pay battle, which was finally resolved with the splitting of the prize money equally with the men's national team, with U.S. soccer, that was in May of 2022, that was really a watershed moment, not just in sports and not just for women, but throughout our culture, that the most famous of all national teams, the U.S. women's national soccer team, I think the around the world, the most famous team, certainly most famous women's team, that they could get that achieved and that they could have equal pay and be respected and honored the same way as the men as we've seen, of course, with the Spanish saga and scandal there over the last month and a half or so, we've seen that that's really difficult.
 
And for the U.S. to do that a full year before is amazing. So that's Megan Rapinoe's legacy. She had teammates in that, Omar, but she certainly was a spokesperson and just unflinching in her ability to play the game and then go into depositions and fight for not only herself but for those who are going to come after her.
 
JIMENEZ: And look, I don't think anyone doubts that she's a fighter. She's described herself as a walking protest. She was one of the first white professional athletes to show solidarity with Colin Kaepernick's protests, she also kneeled on the field. When Trump was in office, she led her team in refusing to go to the White House after winning the World Cup. She got under so many people's skin, including Trump supporters. There were Americans who were rooting for Team USA to lose. Why is Megan Rapinoe so unique?
 
BRENNAN: That's true. And it really happened. Hard to believe, in 2019, that there were people wanting the U.S. to lose, Americans. And then, again, actually, of course in 2023. So, that's a whole another conversation. Unbelievable.
 
But I think what has happened is Megan Rapinoe, Omar, is willing to speak out. She's willing to speak her mind. She's willing to tell people what she thinks and she's willing to take stands for things that are important to her. There are other athletes who have done that, and they are the ones we remember.
 
Yes, goals are important. Yes, passes. Of course, the amazing play, the gold medals, the two World Cups that she has, the titles, you know, that -- of course, that never goes away. But the enduring legacy, the lasting achievement, in my opinion, is what you've done off the field to help others.
 
And when the president of the United States, in this case Donald Trump, is actually going after an athlete wearing the red, white and blue on foreign soil, representing the United States, well, we've never seen that before. Could you imagine Ronald Reagan doing that or George H.W. Bush? Of course not.
 
And so, when Trump did that, took her on, well, she said, OK, I'll meet you there. I'll take you on. And it was remarkable. And while she was fighting that battle in social media and what have you, she's also leading the U.S. to victory in that World Cup, a remarkable achievement, and winning all of the awards in France in 2019. [07:50:00]
 
So, I think as historic achievements go on the field of play, Omar, that Megan Rapinoe 2019 World Cup might be up there with almost anything else. But she speaks her mind. People don't want to hear it. She'll keep saying it.
 
JIMENEZ: Well, and, you know, some would say that success in soccer was what led before, essentially allowing them the leverage to make the gains that they did, as difficult as it was. My question though is, do you think it ever became a distraction, especially this past World Cup?
 
BRENNAN: You know, there's certainly people who wondered. You know, Megan is also 38 years old. So, she's not -- you know, she's on the other end, a little bit older than most of the players, and certainly past her prime a little bit in terms of soccer.
 
I think the fact that a goal or a shot doesn't go in, a penalty kick, as we remember, she missed, you know, that was tough against Sweden in the round of 16 when the U.S. bowed out the worst performance ever. I don't know. If you're singing the national anthem or if you're standing at attention, which they all did, no was kneeling, no one was looking anything other than attentive and honoring the anthem, even if they weren't singing it, I don't think the goals are scored or not because of that.
 
So, this team has been able to multitask, it always has, and they've won World Cups and Olympic gold medals while doing that. This goes all the way back to '99 in the aftermath of Brandi Chastain in the Rose Bowl and that victory. And so, they've been fighting battles all the way along.
 
So, I think some are looking for that as an answer. But no, I think that they are able to do many things at the same time and do it better than almost anyone else on earth. And the U.S. should be celebrating this team. And you don't win everything, of course, as we know.
 
JIMENEZ: Well, and as many -- as much attention as she got off the field, she still won two World Cups, Olympic gold medal, over 200 international appearances, over 60 goals. So, we're losing a major competitor as well. We've got to leave it there. Christine Brennan, thank you.
 
BLACKWELL: Chef Jose Andres is taking his three daughters on a culinary adventure through his Spanish homeland. "Jose Andres &amp; Family in Spain" premieres tonight. Here's a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSE ANDRES, CHEF (voiceover): My girls have a sweet tooth. And of course, they're looking for something sugary to start their day. In Barcelona, the obvious choice is a xuixo.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, the xuixo.
 
ANDRES: And what is a xuixo?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A croissant.
 
ANDRES: What? No.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): This is better than a croissant.
 
ANDRES (through translator): Looks awesome.
 
ANDRES: This is like this amazing dough that is fried, filled with cream.
 
ANDRES (voiceover): Not just any cream, crema Catalana, almost like a sweet velvety custard with sugar dusted on the crunchy outside.
 
ANDRES: A good croissant is a great thing, lady, but a xuixo is for the gods.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: How is it, Carlota?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my God.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my God. Your lips are all sugary.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's so creamy and crunchy and sweet.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The xuixo, oh my gosh. The xuixos are the best thing in the world.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Why are croissants everywhere in America? Why can't which you xuixos be everywhere in America.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think we should take xuixos to the U.S.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: Agreed. "Jose Andres &amp; Family in Spain" premieres tonight at 9:00 on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:57:49]
 
BLACKWELL: You know, we don't do a lot of cute on this show, but this is worth it. This viral TikTok video, you'll want to see this one.
 
JIMENEZ: It's one big sister. She saves her little sister from a bad haircut, given by a third sister before they scramble to hide the evidence from their mom. Here's CNN's Jeanne Moos.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): When your little sister comes asking for scissors -- 
 
VALENTINA ZAMARRIPA: For what?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Something. Just something.
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: Be careful.
 
MOOS (voiceover): -- should have cut her off. Valentina Zamarripa of Mission, Texas was doing her video blog.
 
CAMELIA ZAMARRIPA: Khaleesi cut my hair. I told you. I told you right here.
 
MOOS (voiceover): And thus, began an almost six-minute TikTok that commenters described as literally a coming-of-age movie. They tried to keep mom in the dark.
 
C. ZAMARRIPA: Tomorrow's picture day.
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: Nothing.
 
MOOS (voiceover): The smiling scissor wielder surrendered a lock of hair.
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: Why are you laughing. I told you not to do anything stupid.
 
MOOS (voiceover): So, Valentina did something smart, asking her smartphone -- 
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: I need to search. How to cut bangs?
 
MOOS (voiceover): Her smirky three-year-old sister threatened to tattle.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, you're in trouble.
 
MOOS (voiceover): So, her sisters jumped her and Valentina offered a bribe for her silence.
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: I'll give you a cookie.
 
MOOS (voiceover): 15-year-old Valentina valiantly tried to fix the damage -- 
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: Oh, my God.
 
MOOS (voiceover): -- while eight-year-old Camelia fretted.
 
C. ZAMARRIPA: What have you done to my life?
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: That's cute. You look like Hermione from "Harry Potter."
 
MOOS (voiceover): Mom kept coming back.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, no, no, no.
 
MOOS (voiceover): If someone misbehaves, they all risk losing their wireless.
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: If one goes down, we all go down. Because my mom has always taught us to like stick together.
 
MOOS (voiceover): They hid the evidence. The lock of hair ended up in the trash, even though -- 
 
C. ZAMARRIPA: I wanted to sell it, because I'm a celebrity. I'm famous.
 
MOOS (voiceover): -- and then there was the finger-pointing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Whose idea was that?
 
C. ZAMARRIPA: Valentina.
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: Camelia.
 
MOOS (voiceover): At each other.
 
MOOS: But you really turned on your big sister.
 
V. ZAMARRIPA: Mm-hmm.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Why did you do that?