Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Some Republicans Defend Trump, Others Stay Silent; Democrats Raise Concerns About Judge Aileen Cannon; FED Poised To Announce Rate Hike Decision. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired June 14, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:37]
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Anna Coren live from Hong Kong. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Today we witnessed the most evil and heinous abuse of power in the history of our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: A defiance of Donald Trump after his historic arrest and arraignment. The first U.S. president ever charged in a federal courtroom. 
 
With the current war in Ukraine nearing the 16-month mark, a stark admission from Vladimir Putin. Russia doesn't have enough drones, warplanes or ammunition.
 
Plus, the Japanese Cadet opens fire on their own forces.
 
Well, Donald Trump has been ranting over his historic arrest and arraignment at a Miami federal court. The alleged mishandling of classified documents. He pleaded not guilty to all 37 felony charges which he called fake and fabricated. But are extremely serious and present the possibility of prison time. Amidst all the fuming, he's been fundraising the twice impeach twice indicted and now twice arrested former president told supporters investments to New Jersey that he had every right to possess those secret materials. And he accused the man who defeated him of orchestrating the case against him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Today we witnessed the most evil and heinous abuse of power in the history of our country. Very sad thing to watch. A corrupt sitting president had his top political opponent arrested on fake and fabricated charges of which he and numerous other presidents would be guilty. Right in the middle of a presidential election in which he's losing very badly.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: In Miami, this was the scene outside the courthouse on Tuesday where crowds of Trump supporters and opponents were gathered. Security was heavy, only one person was arrested. Inside the courthouse Trump sat hunched over with his arms crossed and a scowl on his face. He did not speak during the hearing. Well, this case will likely become a long and winding dramatic process for a closer look at what happened in federal court on Tuesday. 
 
Here's CNN's Evan Perez.
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: A historic day here at the federal courthouse in Miami where Donald Trump became the first former president of the United States to face arraignment and faces federal charges that he is now charged with. He spent just under two hours at this -- at the federal courthouse behind me. He was fingerprinted. He was processed by the U.S. Marshals and then sat in this courtroom for -- looking a little bit dejected. 
 
He had his arms folded, twiddling his thumbs, mostly facing forward. As the judge spoke to him about the case. His attorney, Todd Blanche entered the guilt -- the not guilty plea on his behalf, which is unusual. In most cases, defendants are required to stand up and address the judge and say for themselves that they are pleading not guilty. His codefendant Walt Nauta is going to have to come back because he didn't have a lawyer present who could operate here at the federal courthouse in Miami.
 
One of the interesting developments in the court hearing today was the judge ordering the former president to not discuss the charges with Walt Nauta, his codefendant or with any other witness, which is of course an interesting restriction. The former president is facing the fact that a lot of the people who work for him at the Trump organization at Mar-a-Lago were witnesses in this case. And his attorneys raised some concerns about that.
 
Of course, the former president is now running for office again. In the end, the Justice Department promised to produce a list of witnesses that the former president is not allowed to discuss the case with in the coming weeks as this case gets underway here in southern Florida. Evan Perez, CNN, Miami.
 
COREN: Well, let's bring in civil rights attorney Areva Martin in one Washington and from Los Angeles CNN senior political analyst and senior editor at The Atlantic, Ron Brownstein. Great to have you with us.
 <br>[02:05:07]
 
Areva, let's start with you. Trump is calling this political persecution a witch hunt. How strong is the prosecution's case against the former president in your opinion?
 
AREVA MARTIN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: And based on what's been laid out in that 37-count indictment, the case is incredibly strong. It relies not only on evidence that's been provided by employees who work within the Trump Organization and who had firsthand counts of what Trump was doing with respect to the boxes of documents. But it also relies very heavily on testimony from Trump's own attorney.
 
His attorney, who was intimately involved with regards to the search for records, with regards to responding to the subpoena that had been issued by the Department of Justice. So this is pretty in -- this is the strongest evidence I would say that you can have in the case, and that is the evidence of insiders. And then we can't forget that statements that have been made by Donald Trump himself. That's also very much a part of this indictment.
 
So the allegations as listed in the indictment if that evidence is presented in court, if those allegations are in fact, true, this is a very strong case against Donald Trump.
 
COREN: Ron, Donald Trump's former chief of staff John Kelly has said this is the first time in Trump's life that he's being held accountable. Would you agree with that statement?
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Yes. I mean, look, that's what's so striking about this case. I mean, the behavior that's outlined in the indictment, I think, is the behavior of someone who believe that the law did not apply to him. And he had good reason to believe that, you know, the way he is operated through his entire life as a developer in New York and in the political arena, and the White House was a someone who believe that through a combination of money and muscle -- political support, he could basically do what he wanted without consequence.
 
I mean, the behavior that is outlined in this case is so remarkably reckless. That it is just hard to imagine why someone would feel they could get away with it unless they had a long track record of being able to get away with almost anything. And, you know, now we are seeing between this indictment in -- and Special Counsel over the -- trying to overturn the 20 -- will pay out --
 
COREN: OK. We seem to be having --
 
BROWNSTEIN: Whether in fact candidly consequences.
 
COREN: OK. We seem to have you having a bit of problem with your line, Ron. Maybe our folks can consult that out whilst I asked her Areva this next question. Donald Trump's key argument, according to many analysts will be that he had the right to keep the documents under the Presidential Records Act. How will that argument stack up in court?
 
MARTIN: Yes. I think that's a failing argument on its face. I think it's going to fail with respect to any jury that argument is presented to Anna. We have, as you said, we've heard him make that argument. In fact, he left the courthouse in Florida today, went to a campaign rally and made that argument repeatedly kept. He made several statements about his personal documents his right to keep these documents, but it's been clearly established that based on the Presidential Records Act, he has no right to claim personal possession of these classified documents.
 
That clearly was made plain to him by individuals within his own administration, including lawyers that work for him, lawyers that were advising him. This is just one of many theories that Trump has floated to try to absolve himself from responsibility for how he has recklessly and egregiously handled these records. And these aren't just any records, we should be very clear. These are some of the nation's most classified and most confidential records.
 
And they put our national security at risk and the way that he kept them in a bathroom next to a toilet only demonstrates that he's really unfit to be in possession of these kinds of very highly sensitive national security records.
 
COREN: Ron, with the exception of a few Republicans who have spoken out. Overwhelming majority of GOP leaders and Trump's rivals for the Republican nomination are defending Trump. They're parroting the same line that he is being persecuted. Why are they sticking to this?
 
BROWNSTEIN: Yes. You know, I've talked to in the last few days, scholars who study authoritarian leaders -- play at these moments of maximum legal jeopardy -- leverage and extend -- expand their control over the party --
 <br>[02:10:02]
 
COREN: OK. Ron, I'm sorry we are still struggling with that line. Hopefully we can reconnect with you. Areva, in announcing the charges, Special Counsel Jack Smith said, we have one set of laws in this country and they apply to everyone. I guess the concern is that the judge who's been assigned to the trial not the magistrate judge who appeared today but Judge Aileen Cannon, she may feel differently.
 
She's a Trump appointee, who has issued favorable rulings to Donald Trump in the past and some legal analysts believe that she should recuse herself. What are your thoughts?
 
MARTIN: Well, I definitely have my concerns about her ability to be fair and to be unbiased with respect to the handling of this case. If she doesn't recuse herself, I hope that the lessons learned from the way she made rulings in the earlier matter related to the handling of these documents are being reversed not once but twice by the conservative 11th Circuit Court of Appeals has taught her.
 
That her job as a judge is not to make rulings favorable to Donald Trump simply because he appointed her but to do her duties under the constitution. And that would be to allow this case to move forward in a fair and impartial manner. But she does have, if she remains on this case, she will have a great deal of power. Power with respect to the scheduling of when this case moves forward.
 
Power with respect to the motions that will be filed and how those motions will be handled, how they will be ruled on. She will control to some degree the evidence that will be admitted during the trial process. We know there's a big question about the evidence coming from Evan Corcoran. Trump's lawyer. Will she allow that evidence to be, you know, will she quash that evidence? So, there are some legitimate I think concerns about how she will handle this case if she does remain on the case as a judge.
 
But I hope that she will remain true to her duties and obligations under the constitution.
 
COREN: And Areva, do you imagine the government pushing for her to recuse herself or the prosecutor to push for her to recuse herself from the case or would that cause more problems?
 
MARTIN: Yes. And up today, we've not seen any evidence that the prosecution at the Department of Justice is going to move for this judge to recuse herself. I believe that when the Department of Justice convened the grand jury in Florida, they knew that there was a risk, there was the possibility given the way that judges are assigned in that Florida district that she could be one of the judges assigned to this case.
 
It's a small district. And I knew that there were limited choices with respect to who might preside over this trial. So I think the Department of Justice is already factored in to the equation of trying Donald Trump in Florida, that she could be the judge. And I think like the rest of the American people, they are hoping that this judge will do her job, that she will not act as a partisan representative for Donald Trump, but she will act as an impartial jurist, which is her job under the constitution. 
 
I believe that the Department of Justice believes that its case is so strong based on the allegations outlined in the indictment, that this is a case where they can get a conviction no matter who is the judge.
 
COREN: Areva, Donald Trump is struggling to find lawyers for his legal team. Why is it proving so problematic?
 
MARTIN: And the track record, quite frankly, his track record. His track record of not paying his attorneys, his track record of not following the advice given by his various attorneys. And then you have the issue of his attorney. So many of them, because of their representation of field have themselves ended up being investigated by law enforcement agencies. Some have actually served time being convicted like Michael Cohen, others have had their bar license revoked.
 
Had been investigated by various bar associations throughout the country. So he has a horrific record as a client and many lawyers, particularly those affiliated with large firms, those that have firms, that have, you know, really stellar reputations in the legal community don't want their firm's reputation to be tainted by an affiliation with Donald Trump.
 
COREN: It's going to be interesting few months ahead. Areva Martin in Washington, Ron Brownstein in Los Angeles, we thank you for your time.
 
BROWNSTEIN: Thank you, Anna. COREN: Well, Russia launched multiple missile attacks on Ukraine overnight Wednesday, according to Ukrainian military officials, at least three people were killed and 13 wounded in the port city of Odesa. Ukrainian officials say multiple commercial establishments and a residential complex have been damaged, and people may still be trapped under the rubble. Well, this comes as Ukraine makes progress in its counteroffensive.
 
A Ukrainian military official says they are gaining ground in the east and "systematically destroying Russian manpower and equipment." 
 <br>[02:15:08]
 
Ukraine says its fighters are also pressuring Russian forces near Bakhmut and Russia is losing ground around the embattled city. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is praising their tenacity.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): Thanks, everyone who is fighting who protects and advances our positions. For example, the Bakhmut sector in particular for the soldier so the ADF separate brigade of Ukrainian air assault forces, there is forward movement in various areas. I thank you. Thank you for your extraordinary bravery.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: For more on this story, I'm joined by Salma Abdelaziz in London. Salma, good to see you. We know that President Biden has met with NATO's Secretary General. Tell us about the optics, the timing and the mere importance of this meeting.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. So President Biden yesterday greeting, of course, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg at a very critical time against the backdrop of that counteroffensive that you mentioned. Intense fighting being reported by both sides particularly along that Zaporizhzhia to Donetsk angle to the south of the country where very modest gains have been made.
 
And President Biden was, again quick to make that comment. We've heard time and time again that NATO is stronger than ever in the face of Putin's aggression. He emphasized that he wanted to see NATO's eastern flank be fortified even further. That he wants to see that alliances grow and expand which is already of course taking place with Finland joining and potentially Sweden down the line as well.
 
They NATO Secretary General for his part said that material support, that help that the alliance is providing Kyiv. That is already making a difference on the ground when it comes to the battlefield. Take a listen to what he told reporters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: And the support that we are providing together to Ukraine is now making a difference on the battlefield as we speak, because the offensive is launched and Ukrainians are making progress. Making advances. It's still early days. But what we do know is that the more land Ukrainians are able to liberate the stronger hand they will have at the negotiating table.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ: Now both leaders of course were quick to emphasize that they need to remain in lockstep with Kyiv. They know that this counter offensive will take time. They're not expecting anything to change overnight. And they know that they need to be responsive to the needs of Ukrainian forces on the ground in both leaders, of course meeting ahead of this expected summit in Lithuania next month. Preparing really for what they can do to continue to bolster Ukraine's fight.
 
COREN: And Salma, the Russian president has been speaking to pro- Kremlin media have been quite frank about his assessment of the war. Please tell us.
 
ABDELAZIZ: Yes. So President Putin yesterday in Moscow meeting with war correspondents, and much of what he told them is to be expected. The usual boasting, if you will, up from President Putin, describing Russian forces, of course, is making major gains, dismissing Ukraine's forces and saying that they have faced catastrophic losses. Of course, much of this is not verified by what Ukrainian officials and reporters on the ground are telling us.
 
And he did, of course, admit which is interesting. Did admit to the start of Ukraine's counteroffensive, claiming that it started June 4th and being very dismissive as to what it's been able to accomplish so far. Take a listen to what you told these war reporters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): They started it using the strategic reserves, and it continues to this very moment. Now, as we speak, the combat in several regions is ongoing. What can I say? The enemy was not successful in any of the axes, they have suffered big losses.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ: Now, what is interesting is that President Putin did make an admission of at least one weakness. He did say that the country lacks the high precision ammunition drones, communications equipment, aircraft in drones, it needs on the ground. He did say that the Russian military has this equipment, but that it's not quantitatively enough and that he's working to ramp up weapons manufacturing inside Russia.
 
You'll remember of course, as well, Anna that Russia is leaning on countries like Iran to bolster its arsenal during this fight. But are rare and interesting and admission there from President Putin about what he lacks on the ground.
 
COREN: Salma Abdelaziz, always great to see you. Thank you for the update. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has spoken by phone with China's Foreign Minister Qin Gang ahead of Blinken's expected visit to China in the coming weeks.
 
Well, China's Foreign Ministry says they discussed Beijing's core concerns including Taiwan, while the U.S. State Department says they talked about the importance of communication to avoid miscalculation and conflict.
 <br>[02:20:02]
 
Well, Blinken's trip was originally scheduled for February but was postponed when the Chinese spy balloon flew over the United States.
 
For more now I'm joined by CNN's Kristie Lu Stout here in Hong Kong. Kristie, tell us more about what was discussed.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anna, China's Foreign Minister says that the United States should respect China's core concerns including the issue of Taiwan. This was conveyed in a phone conversation that just took place between Qin Gang and America's top diplomat, the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. And the call us it takes place just before Antony Blinken is due to make that long way to trip to Beijing.
 
Now, according to a statement that was issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It said that Qin Gong reflected on the nature of the relationship saying that it had encountered new difficulties and challenges as well and that the responsibility is clear. In his statement, the foreign ministry also added this. Let's bring it up for you. "It is hoped that the U.S. will take practical actions to implement the important consensus reached by the two heads of state in Bali that making reference to the G20 meeting in November between Biden and Xi and effectively managed differences."
 
The Ministry also called on the U.S. to stabilize and to return the relationship on the right track. The U.S. State Department also acknowledged that this call took place in a statement that went out on its official Web site. And Antony Blinken turned to Twitter to share this. Let's bring up his tweet for you. "Spoke tonight with the PRC state councilor in foreign minister Qin Gong by phone discussed ongoing efforts to maintain open channels of communication, as well as bilateral and global issues.
 
Now Sources tell CNN that Blinken is bound for China in the next few weeks. That was a trip that was originally scheduled in February but of course it was delayed due to the Chinese spy balloon incident. And this phone call all this comes at a time of deepening tension between the U.S. and China with the White House saying that the Chinese are engaging in increasingly aggressive military behaviors.
 
As you recall earlier this month you had that near collision involving two warships, a Chinese warship and a U.S. warship in the Taiwan Strait. Last month there was an incident involving a Chinese military jet and U.S. military jet with the U.S. military accusing the Chinese jet of engaging in unnecessarily aggressive maneuvers in international airspace above the South China Sea.
 
Tension is there, tension not seen in decades over these military near misses over Taiwan over territorial issues, trade technology the list goes on. But engagement is taking place. You know last month you had those talks in Vienna described as candid and constructive between the White House National Security Adviser and a top Chinese official Wang Yi. You also had the visit by the CIA director to China.
 
Visit that took place last month but only made public this month. And earlier this month, you had the meetings that took place between the U.S. Commerce Secretary, the U.S. Trade Representative and China's Minister of Commerce, adding to that list of engagement, the phone call that took place just a few hours ago between Qin Gang and the U.S. Secretary of State ahead of his very much long-awaited trip to China. Back to you, Anna.
 
COREN: And that's certainly going to be a very important meeting when it happens. Kristie Lu stout. Great to see you. Many thanks.
 
STOUT: Thank you.
 
COREN: Still ahead. A rare and deadly shooting at a Japanese military facility. We'll have the latest developments and a live report from the region next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:25:34]
 
COREN: Tens of thousands of people are being evacuated as India and Pakistan brace for a powerful cyclone. The storm has been churning in the Arabian Sea and is now moving north. It's expected to make landfall near the India-Pakistan border on Thursday, bringing with the triple threat of heavy rain, damaging wind and coastal storm surge. Urban flooding as forecast for Pakistan's largest city Karachi where businesses and shopping malls are shutting their doors. 
 
The storm is also bringing the threat of flash flooding and landslides to the region. Japan's military says a cadet is in custody after opening fire on their unit during a training exercise, killing two and wounding another.
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks is following the story from Seoul, South Korea and joins us now. Paula, tell us what you're learning.
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anna, we've just had a press conference from the defense forces and they've given us more details. They say that the two that were killed in this incident were 25-year- old and 52-year-old servicemen both from the Moriyama Garrison. Now we understand from officials that this happened at 9:00 this morning, local time in Japan. It was in central Japan that it happened in Gifu Prefecture.
 
And it was during a live fire drill. So, it was at a live fire unit. And they say that one Cadet turned and started firing on other members of the unit believed to be with an automatic weapon we understand from officials. Now we've heard from the Chief of Staff of the SDF Yasunori Morishita. And he said that he has already launched an investigation to find out what happened. The individual is in custody.
 
But at this point, they don't have a motive. They don't know why he carried this out. But the chief of staff saying, "This kind of incident should never happen in an organization that handles weapons." Now, it is true that that gun crime and these kinds of incidents are very rare in Japan. They do happen, but it is not common. Certainly, they have one of the lowest gun crime rates in the whole world.
 
But often what you do see is there will be police and there will be military that do have the ability to carry arms. When it comes to the general population, it is extremely difficult and restrictive, to be able to secure a gun and to be able to legally have ownership of a gun. So that is why you see these figures being so low. For example, last year 2022, there were just nine-gun-related incidents in the entire year. 
 
Now, of course, that does include one very high profile one, which was the former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who was killed in the street as he was giving a campaign statement and rally. But the fact is, this is a different sort of situation. We do see on occasion gangs with gun violence. We have seen for example, just a month ago, one individual opening fire and killing four people in central Japan, two of them police officers.
 
But this is very specific. This is in a setting where guns are allowed. It is at a live fire drill. And this is where the chief of staff is saying that this kind of incident simply shouldn't happen in the kind of place that handles weapons. Now we know that all subsequent live fire drills for the rest of the day, understandably have been cancelled. Anna?
 
COREN: Paula Hancocks in Seoul. We appreciate the update. Thank you.
 
Hundreds of people, a few dead in Nigeria after a boat say were travelling in capsized in the river. Authority say the boat overturned after hitting a tree trunk at a team has been deployed to carry out an on the spot assessment of what happened. A local official called the accident a big tragedy and added that he had lost four of his neighbors in the incident.
 
Tens of thousands of people are expected at Milan Cathedral in the coming hours for Silvio Berlusconi's funeral. The former Italian Prime Minister died Monday at the age of 86. Berlusconi built a multibillion-dollar business empire that included T.V. networks, department stores and football clubs before turning to politics in 1994. Mourners leaving flags, flowers and other tributes as they pay their respects outside his villa north of Milan.
 
Well, Donald Trump back in campaign mode after pleading not guilty to federal charges in the Mar-a-Lago documents case.
 <br>[02:30:03] 
 
He's bound to retaliate against President Biden just ahead. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Welcome back, Donald Trump is lashing out. President Biden and the Justice Department after his arraignment in the classified documents case. Miami on Tuesday guilty to all 37 counts in Miami on Tuesday. He's accused of mishandling classified documents after he left the White House in 2021. A crowd of supporters gathered outside the Federal Courthouse to cheer on the former President when protester was arrested after he jumped in front of Trump's motorcade. Trump is now at his investments to Bedminster Golf Resort in New Jersey, where he spoke to supporters late Tuesday. The former President called the charges against him the most evil and heinous abuse of power in the history of the country. And he vowed to appoint a special prosecutor to go after Joe Biden if he's reelected.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This is called election interference and yet another attempt to rig and steal a presidential election. More importantly, it's a political persecution like something straight out of a fascist or communist nation. This day will go down in infamy and Joe Biden will forever be remembered as not only the most corrupt President in the history of our country. But perhaps even more importantly, the President who together with a band of his closest thugs, misfits and Marxists tried to destroy American democracy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: While Trump's Republican rivals are responding to Tuesday's arrest and arraignment. Former Vice President Mike Pence told The Wall Street Journal, "Having read the indictment, these are very serious allegations. And I can't defend what is alleged. But the President is entitled to his day in court, he's entitled to bring a defense, and I want to reserve judgement until he has the opportunity to respond." And here is a former Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASA HUTCHINSON (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Anyone is a disservice provides a disservice to our justice system. And our rule of law, if they diminish the seriousness of these charges and allegations. It does a disservice to our servicemen and women who are bound by the rules. One of them was convicted and sent two or three years in prison.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
HUTCHINSON: For mishandling classified information.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In Florida, I believe.
 
HUTCHINSON: So, we need to be straightforward about this and not play political games.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) COREN: Well, former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley seemed to play both sides of defense.
 <br>[02:35:04]
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE (voiceover): If the claims in the indictment are true, if they're true. Then, Trump was incredibly reckless with our national security and that's not OK. You know, when you look at a pardon, the issue is less about guilt and more about what's good for the country. And I think it would be terrible for the country to have a former president in prison for years because of a documents case. So, I would be inclined in favor of a pardon.
 
(END AUDIO CLIP)
 
COREN: Many Republicans in the U.S. House are rushing to Trump's defense. But some are starting to voice their concerns about Trump's alleged conduct. CNN Chief Congressional Correspondent, Manu Raju gauges the mood on Capitol Hill.
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Now, in the immediate aftermath of Donald Trump's indictment and all of the allegations detailing the President's misconduct and mishandling of classified information, allegedly seeking to obstruct the investigation and making false statements about it. A lot of Trump supporters on Capitol Hill rushed to his defense. But a lot of them were quiet until recently, they've come back into town after being out for the last few days and have to start to answer some questions. And some Republicans are expressing concerns about what the President -- the former President did. And also, indicating they could not support him if he's convicted in this trial.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REP. STEVE WOMACK (R-AR): I have serious concerns about anybody that has a reckless disregard for the handling of classified documents.
 
RAJU: You a military guy, he allegedly had national security information.
 
REP. DANIEL REED CRENSHAW (R-TX): It's very problematic. There's a reason I'm not -- I'm not defending it.
 
RAJU: Would you be OK with that? I mean, convicted felon as your nominee?
 
REP. TIM BURCHETT (R-TN): And I've said to read the conviction. But now, honestly, on the surface, I wouldn't. That doesn't look good.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAJU: Now, this all comes as Democrats to are grappling with the fallout of this case. Some are raising concerns about the expected judge in this case, Aileen Cannon, someone they are concerned may not preside over impartial proceeding. Some of them including Senator Dick Blumenthal, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee calling on Cannon to recuse herself from this trial going forward. But also, the Senate will have to deal with some other issues as well.
 
There is a threat right now from one of Trump's most loyal supporters, J.D. Vance, who has vowed to hold up any justice department nominee in the United States Senate over his concerns than his view, that the Justice Department is prosecuting people in a political manner. And wants some assurances that they won't take similar actions going forward. Of course, this all comes in the wake of the Trump indictment. Democrats are concerned about this at the moment, it's unclear how much of an impact this will have on the Senate operations. But if it drags out, it could tie up nominees that Merrick Garland wants to confirm for his department. Manu Raju, CNN Capitol Hill.
 
COREN: The Federal Reserve has a tough decision on its hands, and it plans to announce it in just 12 hours from now. The Fed is meeting in Washington trying to decide if it should raise interest rates for an 11th consecutive time or take a pause. The Consumer Price Index which came out Tuesday could argue for a pause. It shows consumer prices in May rose at their slowest annual pace since March 2021. Slowing hikes in food prices and lower energy prices are helping ease inflation.
 
But it's still rising faster than the 2 percent per year the Fed hopes to achieve and a strong may jobs report also might persuade the Fed to order another rate hike. But most economists think the Fed will take a poised to give it time to further assess the data. That announcement is set for 2:00 p.m. Wednesday, Eastern Time. Still ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, back from the beyond. A woman in Ecuador is declared dead but later her pounding on the lead of her coffin from the inside.
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: A remarkable sighting of the California Coast over the weekend, up to 30 killer whales were spotted in Monterey Bay splashing about in large groups. The head of the nonprofit California killer whale project caught it extraordinary but said there was no clear explanation why so many of them had gathered. Sightings have been on the rise in recent weeks with some reported nearly every day for the past week.
 
A 76-year-old Ecuador woman is back in hospital after a scene straight out of out of a horror movie. She was declared dead on Friday after a possible stroke and cardiopulmonary arrest. Her family held awake just hours later. But instead of knocking on heaven's door, the woman was still alive knocking on the cliff coffin lid. Her son posted this video of the incident on social media. He immediately called 911 And the woman was taken back to the same hospital where she had been declared dead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GILBERTO BARBERA, SON OF THE WOMAN DECLARED DEAD FOUND ALIVE INSIDE COFFIN: Everything went down like 20 people and this man saw that she was breathing needed oxygen air. In wood saying my son and her hand everybody, nobody imagined it was her hitting the casket.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Incredible. Ecuador's health ministry says the woman is in intensive care and investigation is underway, really (INAUDIBLE) time. Thank you so much for joining us. I'm Anna Coren, "WORLD SPORT" is up next. Then I'll be back with another hour of news in just 15 minutes. You're watching CNN.
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[03:00:00]