Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Special Counsel In Possession Of Thousands Of Docs From Giuliani Team That Tried To Find Fraud After 2020; Unarmed Black Man Attacked By Police K9 Despite Surrendering; Thousands Evacuated In Greece Amid Wildfires; Thousands Protest After Israel Limits Supreme Court's Power; Study: 8 Habits Could Add Up To 24 Years To Your Life. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired July 24, 2023 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:31:12]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: This just into CNN. Special Counsel Jack Smith is now in possession of thousands of documents related to his team's efforts to find suspected voter fraud in the 2020 election, which, of course, they didn't find. 
 
CNN's Paula Reid got this first-on-CNN reporting. 
 
Paula, as we understand it, these documents, though, went through the Trump campaign first for review before they were handed over? 
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: That's right. These were handed over by an attorney for former New York Police Commissioner Bernie Kerik. He's a close associate of Rudy Giuliani. 
 
And he was part of the team that Giuliani assembled after the 2020 election that was working to look for this supposed fraud in and around the 2020 election. 
 
Now, during the investigation on the Hill to January 6th, Kerik did not turn over some of these materials, saying that he was a part of the legal team. And that these -- some of these materials should be covered by privilege. 
 
But after he was contacted by the special counsel in recent weeks, he took these materials to the Trump campaign, allowed them to review the documents. And the campaign, we're told, said, look, we're not going to assert privilege to any of this. 
 
So in recent days thousands and thousands of pages were handed over to Special Counsel Jack Smith, who now can review them as part of his ongoing investigation into efforts to overturn the 2020 election and the events leading up to January 6th. 
 
Now, we know and we previously reported that Bernie Kerik has been in some talks with prosecutors for an interview in the special counsel's investigation. And we've learned that a date has now been set. 
 
And his attorney, Timothy Parlatore, tells us they look forward to speaking with investors in a few weeks. 
 
SCIUTTO: Paula Reid, thanks so much for following it. 
 
Boris? 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: There is outrage in Ohio today after an unarmed black man is attacked by a police canine despite surrendering with his hands up. Police body cam captured the incident.
 
And we should warn you, it is disturbing. 
 
Newly released 911 calls reveal the driver of the truck you see stopped on the right-hand side, feared for his life as officers tried to pull him over. 
 
In fact, he told dispatchers, he thought police were going to kill him so he took off in his truck before it was disabled by spikes setting up this tense scene with the dog. 
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales is following the report. 
 
Isabel, the case report that states that this all started over a missing mud flap? 
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That is correct. All of this started on July the 4th. There was a motor carrier enforcement inspector, someone whose job it is to make sure that trucks on the roads are safe. He noticed that Jadarrius Rose' truck had a missing mud flap. 
 
So he turns on his lights, he turns on his sirens, according to the case report by the Ohio State Highway Patrol. But Rose does not stop. So this inspector calls for backup. And eventually, stop sticks are used. 
 
We do see in the video, Rose is stopping and then he's surrounded by officers who have weapons pointed toward the truck, ordering him to come out. He does not come out. Instead, he goes back onto the road and the chase continues. 
 
Then, Boris, he calls 911. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN AUDIO FEED)
 
JADARRIUS ROSE, ATTACKED BY POLICE K9 DESPITE SURRENDER: I don't know why they got the -- I want to deliver this load. They tried to throw spikes down at this truck for whatever reason. I don't know why. 
 
911 OPERATOR: You need to pull over. You're going to get yourself in more trouble than you're already in. 
 
ROSE: I don't know why they're trying to kill me. 
 
911 OPERATOR: They're not trying to kill you. 
 
ROSE: Yes, they are, I'm not going to stop, ma'am. (END AUDIO FEED)
 
ROSALES: You can hear that Rose is confused as to why he's being pursued. And he said he fears for safety, for his life. 
 <br>[14:35:03]
 
Eventually, he comes to a stop. Again, he's surrounded by officers. He has his hands up. 
 
We hear a state trooper not only giving him commands but also a police officer, to a unit from the Circleville Police Department right behind me, warning the canine handler not to release the dog while Rose had his hands up. 
 
It is not clear in that moment if the state trooper could be heard. And despite those repeated warnings, the dog is released. Watch. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Do not release the dog with his hands up. Do not release the dog with his hands. Do not release the dog with his hands -- don't -- get the dog off of him! 
 
ROSE: It's a dog bite. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: All you had to do is come to me. 
 
ROSE: I had the to -- You have a gun pointed at me. It's like -- it's like --
 
UNIDENTIFIED LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: All you had to do is stop, brother. 
 
ROSE: I did stop. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: And while Rose's attorney declined to comment, I did speak with the Circleville mayor who confirmed to me the name of that K9 handler as Officer Ryan Speakman, saying he's on paid leave as the Use-of-Force Review Board looks into this incident. The findings expected to be released the week of July 31st -- Boris, Jim? 
 
SANCHEZ: Isabel Rosales, thank you so much for that reporting. 
 
For more on this, let's turn to CNN chief law enforcement analyst, John Miller. 
 
John, thanks for being with us.
 
What is the protocol for an officer to let a canine loose in this kind of situation, in a stop like this over a missing mud flap? 
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, the missing mud flap is what initiates the stop. The reason these cops are raised up is because for 35 minutes they've been on a high-speed chase with an 18-wheeler. 
 
And they don't understand why a truck driver -- I mean, it's really unusual to chase a commercial truck driver in an 18-wheeler, and not have it comply with a police car trying to pull it over for an inspection. So they're wondering what's going on with this driver. 
 
Now, when he comes out and he's got his hands up, they're giving multiple commands. The people closest to him, if you look at that tape closely, are telling him, get down on your knees, they're giving him other commands that he's not complying with. 
 
The people further away that we can hear better are saying, don't release the dog while he has his hands up. Typically, if you're going to release a police canine, it's to chase somebody who is running who you can't catch up to. 
 
The dog can move faster and take them down until you catch up. Or to, you know, deal with an armed suspect. 
 
In this case, I think the real confusion was command and control at the scene. Who's in charge? You have multiple people yelling multiple commands from multiple agencies. 
 
And some of these are in conflict with an individual on the street who is trying to figure out, who am I supposed to listen to here? It's a -- it's an issue of training and control. 
 
SANCHEZ: So, what does accountability look like? You had the driver of the 18-wheeler saying to dispatch, I'm scared, they're trying to kill me. And then as he's getting out of the vehicle, we see a use of force that didn't appear necessary. 
 
MILLER: So, accountability looks like the driver is going to be charged or not charged with whatever they go forward with or don't, because the situation has been overtaken by the police response, really. 
 
You know, the evading police is a side issue now. But ultimately, this is going to be a civil matter, where he may sue the police department. 
 
And then Circleville Police Department, who is the owner of that dog and the employer of that police officer, has to deal with the fallout here, within their own disciplinary system. 
 
SANCHEZ: John Miller, we appreciate you checking in with us. We'll go back to the situation as news warrants. 
 
Thanks so much, John. 
 
Jim? 
 
MILLER: Thanks.
 
SCIUTTO: Coming up on CNN NEWS CENTRAL, Greece warns that the climate crisis isn't coming, it's already here, as multiple wildfires rage once again across the country. [14:39:25]
 
And a new study says that eight simple habits could extend your life by up to 24 years. We're going to tell you what they are. I'm going to be listening. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SCIUTTO: As multiple wildfires rage in Greece, the country's prime minister says, quote, "the climate crisis is already here." These flames are from the island of Rhodes, where thousands of people have been evacuated at the height of the tourist season. 
 
CNN's Sam Kiley reports from the town of Laros on Rhodes. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's a regular visitor, wildfire. And no one knows where or when it will strike. This is tourism in the 21st century. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KILEY: The latest maelstrom in southern Europe, Rhodes, an island of ancient ruins facing a modern apocalypse. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't usually swear, but what the (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
 
KILEY: Intense heatwaves have turned forests into desiccated tinder, yearning for a spark to roar into flame. And anything that fails to flee the inferno has little chance of survival. 
 
Greek authorities have evacuated tens of thousands from popular resorts at peak season. And the government says it's the largest such operation in the country's history. 
 <br>[14:45:04]
 
KEVIN SALOS, BRITISH TOURIST: All our money, cash box, clothing. We had to lend a woman some of my wife's clothes because she had nothing to wear. It's terrible. 
 
KILEY: British tour operators are flying empty planes here to bring desperate tourists home. 
 
(on camera): Powerful winds have made life just about unbearable for people on these islands living through this heatwave. But those selfsame winds are fanning the flames of these infernos. 
 
(voice-over): And the problem is spreading. The latest, overnight, this island of Corfu where thousands have now been evacuated. And police are bolstering their ranks in anticipation of more to come. The Greek government has been battling wildfires across the country
 
 for a week during what's expected to be the longest heatwave this country has ever seen. 
 
As temperature records are shattered across Europe and the world, every day our planet has become slightly more unlivable. 
 
POPE FRANCIS (through translation): We are experiencing here, and in many countries, extreme climatic events. Please, I renew my appeal to the leaders of the nations to do something more concrete to limit polluting emissions. 
 
It is an urgent challenge and cannot be put off. It concerns everyone. Let us protect our common home. 
 
KILEY: As heatwaves and fires are escalating yearly in southern Europe, the threat is now even perhaps to the pontiff's own home.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: Our thanks to Sam Kiley for that report. 
 
We're following major developments out of Israel today. Thousands of protesters are demonstrating in the streets after hard-right lawmakers, led by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, passed the first part of the government's plan to weaken the power of the country's ports. 
 
Supporters claim the reforms are necessary to rebalance powers between the branches of government, while protesters fear the move could turn Israel into a dictatorship. 
 
Let's take you there, live now, to the streets with CNN's Fred Pleitgen. 
 
Fred, tell us what is going on where you are. 
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, there, Boris. Well, this is descending into a melee here at the main protest. You can tell there's a lot of pushing and shoving and wrestling going on right now between the police officers and the protesters.
 
To put this in context, I'm right near the Supreme Court of Israel. This is where a lot of the protests have been taking place today. These protesters coming out here all day. 
 
And now, I'd say, in the last half hour or so, police came out and tried to clear this area. Obviously, the police officers, they were also using the water cannon truck you that see back there. 
 
Protesters are saying they're not going to budge. They're so angry by some of these additional overhaul measures made today by the Knesset with the government coalition. 
 
The opposition members of parliament, all walked out as the vote was taken. As you can see, the supporters with protests extremely angry and that
 
 is coming -- has turned into violence in the last couple of minutes, in the last 20 or 30 minutes or so as the police have been trying to clear the square. 
 
You can see them, they're carrying away another protester, as they're moving to clear. 
 
But there is a lot of anger right now, Boris. And right now, there's more pushing and shoving going on. There's definitely a lot of anger on the streets. 
 
Benjamin Netanyahu, by the way, came out about an hour ago and he justified -- he justified the measure, saying this was the will of the people. But as you can see, the folks who are out here saying it's definitely not their will that's happening. 
 
As you can see them here, jostling and fighting with the authorities as the cops are trying to clear this place. 
 
It's a pretty ugly scene taking place right now here in central Jerusalem right now beside the Supreme Court and also very close to the parliament -- Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: A lot of anger in that crowd. Of course, we'll stay on top of that situation and bring you the very latest as we get it.
 
Fred Pleitgen, please stay safe out there. 
 <br>[14:49:23]
 
There's still plenty more news to come on CNN NEWS CENTRAL. We're back in just minutes. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: So what if we told you that there are ways to extend your life not just by a couple of years, but by up to 24 years? What if we told you as well that would require pretty simple lifestyle choices, would you be all in? 
 
Well, a new study offers proof that makes a difference, keys to a longer life through some pretty simple healthy habits. 
 
CNN's health reporter, Jacqueline Howard, is here with the details. 
 
Jacqueline, it is not the first time that you have heard you make a couple of changes here and there, eat less fat and walk once a day and, over time, the population will extend your life by up to 24 years. That's a lot. That's a lot of time.
 
So tell us what they're telling us to do. 
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: It is. And these eight habits may seem obvious to some, but it is interesting to see them listed in order of the ones that have the greatest association with living longer. 
 
We start out with number one, getting regular exercise. Number two, do not misuse opioids. And number three, not smoking. Those top three were found to have the greatest association with longevity.
 
Then we are following by managing your stress, having a healthy diet, not binge drinking, getting enough sleep, and having positive social relationships.
 <br>[14:55:08]
 
So all eight of these habits, Jim, were associated with, according to this research which was presented just today, they were associated with adding up to 24 years to your life expectancy. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HOWARD: So those eight habits, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: It is interesting to see the opioids on that list because, obviously, we've seen that. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCIUTTO: That's had a major effect on life expectancy in this country.
 
HOWARD: Exactly.
 
So what about people and I'm not going to tell you why I'm asking this. It certainly wouldn't relate to my own situation. But what about people starting these new healthy habits later in their life, say? Does that still make a difference? And can it make that much of a difference, multiple years?
 
HOWARD: Absolutely. In this study, researchers found those who started these healthy habits in middle age still saw the health benefits. So it's never too late, Jim, to start living a healthy lifestyle.
 
SCIUTTO: Jacqueline, why did you say middle aged there? Is there a reason you thew out middle aged? 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SCIUTTO: You're just going to sneak that in.
 
OK. I will share it with Boris. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SCIUTTO: I'll share it with Boris. I'll share with him.
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
SCIUTTO: Jacqueline Howard, thanks so much. 
 
Boris? HOWARD: Absolutely.
 
SANCHEZ: Still plenty of news to come this afternoon. "Barbie" and "Oppenheimer" did some blockbuster business during their opening weekend. Will it be enough to give the movie theater industry a much- needed boost?
 
We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)