Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Massive Hunt for Sub Intensifies as Oxygen Dwindles; U.S. House Votes to Censure Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff; Republican Lawmaker Hurls Expletive in Congress; Ukraine's Navy Takes on Russian Drons, Missiles; Gershkovich to Fight His Detention in Russia. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired June 22, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hi everyone, a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo. 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Max Foster, joining you live from London. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, we'll continue to put every available asset we have in an effort to find the Titan and the crew members. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Any of these smaller submersible's, they are extremely claustrophobic. And you are really pinned in. And a trip down to the Titanic is a fairly long expedition. 
 
REP. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): It's a badge of honor, as Roosevelt said in his time, that sometimes you can judge a person by the enemies they make. 
 
SCHIFF: To my Republican colleagues who introduced this resolution, I thank you. You honor me with your enmity. You flatter me with this falsehood. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Is the Daily Beast Story about you calling her an expletive accurate?
 
REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): I will not confirm or deny. 
 
REP. LAUREN BOEBERT (R-CO): Yes, I'm not in middle school. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. 
 
FOSTER: It is Thursday, June the 22nd, 9:00 a.m. here in London. And we begin with the search for that missing submersible, somewhere in the Atlantic Ocean. As experts warn the supply of oxidant may run out today. More high-tech equipment and ships are heading to the area, where banging sounds were heard over the past two days. The only indication the five men on board might still be alive. 
 
NOBILO: A French deep-sea robot called the Victor 6000 is being rushed to the site. It's not able to lift the sub on its own but could hook to a ship that can get it to service. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEAN LEET, COFOUNDER AND CHAIRMAN, HORIZON MARITIME SERVICES: We are very aware of the time sensitivity around this mission. They're still life support available on the submersible. And we'll continue to hold out hope until the very end. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: More now from CNN's Miguel Marquez, who is reporting from St. Johns, in Canada. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAPTAIN JAMIE FREDERICK, U.S. COAST GUARD: This is a search and rescue mission, 100 percent.
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Rescuers clinging to every sliver of hope, indistinct sounds from the ocean depths could be a sign, the sign of life.
 
FREDERICK: The noises were heard by a Canadian P3 and that was this morning, and some yesterday.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): The noise, described as banging sounds, at regular intervals in the Department of Homeland Security briefing, are now described as less specific than that, but still, the focus of the search.
 
FREDERICK: We need to have hope, right? But I can tell you what the noises are. But what I can tell you is -- and I think this is the most important point -- we're searching with the noises are. And that's all we can do at this point.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): The sounds, picked up by buoys, like this one drop from planes, and then listening for any signs of life from the Titan submersible.
 
CARL HARTSFIELD, WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION: This team has multiple sensors that are in the area. They're sending data back expeditiously to the best in the world.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): It takes about today for ships from St. John's, the closest land to the Titanic wreck site, to arrive at the search area. That search area enormous, two times the size of Connecticut, a grid pattern provided by the U.S. Coast Guard indicates the meticulous nature of the search and how it's expanded.
 
The commercial ship, Horizon Arctic, left this morning with equipment and gear from three U.S. military C-17 cargo planes. And another Canadian Coast Guard ship, the Terry Fox, left St. John's today, and is on the way. They will join eight other ships, either already at the search area or en route. The submersible, made of carbon fiber and titanium, no hatch, it's five-person crew bolted into the 25-foot craft, stirred controversy during its development and testing.
 
In 2018, the Marine Technology Society, a volunteer group that offers technical advice to the industry, expressed concerns to OceanGate about, quote, the current experimental approach adopted by OceanGate could result in negative outcomes from minor to catastrophic that would have serious consequences for everyone in the industry, unquote.
 
The industry group wanted OceanGate to submit to comprehensive testing and certification standards. It's not clear what steps OceanGate undertook to test and adhere to those standards. Its founder, Stockton Rush, who is on the missing sub, expressed his take on research and testing this way when asked by one of his previous passengers.
 
STOCKTON RUSH, FOUNDER &amp; CEO, OCEANGATE: I've broken some rules to make this. I think I've broken them with logic and good engineering behind me, the carbon fiber titanium, there's a rule you don't do that, well, I did.
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): Later in 2018, two employees separately expressed concerns about the thickness of the carbon fiber hull. One employee was fired. He sued for wrongful termination, the other resigned. The lawsuit was settled out of court, and OceanGate says it conducted further testing on the sub to ensure functionality and safety.
 
MARQUEZ: I spoke to one man here in St. John's today that did that trip with OceanGate down to the Titanic wreckage. He took his son on a trip last year. He says that they both have great confidence in the company. They went through tons of training on both rescues and emergencies, and even learning lots about the capsule itself. He says that they trust the technology and the design of that submersible. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NOBILO: In the classified documents case against Donald Trump, special counsel Jack Smith has begun handing over to Trump's legal team the evidence the government will present a trial, a process known as discovery. 
 
FOSTER: According to the latest filing, these materials are unclassified and include multiple audio recordings of Trump made with his consent. Witness testimonies before grand juries and copies of surveillance footage obtained by investigators. 
 
The Republican-led U.S. House of Representatives has voted to censure Democratic Congressman Adam Schiff, a key lawmaker in Congressional investigations into former President Donald Trump. 
 
NOBILO: The House resolution accuses Schiff of misleading the American people while pursuing the investigation into Russia and the Trump campaign and for actions taken ahead of Trump's first impeachment. Schiff calls the allegations false and defamatory. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): So this is basically Trump and MAGA world going after someone they think is effective in standing up to them. And so, I feel like I've earned their opposition and was proud to stand with all my Democratic colleagues and oppose this, you know, flagrant abuse of the House process. 
 
NOBILO: Former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi also weighed in, accusing Republican lawmakers of turning the House into a puppet show. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA) FORMER HOUSE SPEAKER: Today we're on the floor of the House, where the other side is turned this chamber, where slavery was abolished first, Medicare and Social Security and everything were instituted. They've turned it into a puppet show, a puppet show. And you know what? The puppeteer, Donald Trump, is shining a light on the strings. You look miserable. You look miserable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
FOSTER: Well, Schiff announced a sweeping investigation into Trump's finances and Russia in 2019, while he served as the chair of the House Intelligence Committee. Schiff was also the lead House impeachment manager during Trump's first impeachment trial. 
 
NOBILO: Republican Congresswoman Lauren Boebert is trying to force the U.S. House to vote to impeach President Biden. But Speaker Kevin McCarthy is urging House Republicans not to do so. Boebert's measure alleges that Mr. Biden violated his oath by failing to enforce immigration laws at the U.S. Mexico border. But sources say McCarthy is warning Republicans that they need to let investigations into the Biden administration play out before they take a vote. 
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA) U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER: I think to prematurely bring something up like that, to have no background in it, it under cuts what we're doing in Comer's committee. We're finding something new every single day. What were doing in Jim Jordan's committee as well. Look, this is probably one the most important things members of Congress has the right to do. And to take it in a flippant way that just puts something on the floor like that -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: McCarthy says that the House will refer are those impeachment resolution to the Homeland Security Committee. 
 
FOSTER: Meanwhile, another controversial Republican Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene had a heated exchange on the House floor on Wednesday. During that chat, Greene allegedly described Boebert a little "B" word. Here is what Greene had to say when asked about it. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is a daily beast story about you calling her an expletive accurate? 
 
REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): I will not confirm or deny. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: We all know what that means. 
 
FOSTER: Yes, here's Boebert's response. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. LAUREN BOEBERT (R-CO): Yes, I'm not in middle school.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: Greene's spokesperson has confirmed the Georgia Republican did call her colleague names, will accusing Boebert of copying her articles of impeachment against President Biden. 
 
States in the Central U.S. are in for a storm filled weekend. There's a threat of thunderstorms across the region today into Friday, and it follows numerous storm reports, including hail and at least 11 tornadoes on Wednesday. 
 
FOSTER: Officials in Texas are surveying the damage from one of those tornadoes. It swept through Matador Texas leveling buildings and topping debris. The town's mayor was asking for help, saying many people are injured. 
 
Another town official tells CNN her home was completely destroyed, and most of our farm animals are dead or missing. 
 
NOBILO: This video shows two tornadoes on Wednesday in Colorado. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
You can see them there. At least five people -- at least five of them actually have been reported across the state. Colorado is also on alert for severe thunderstorms and flash floods, with reports of hail the size of half dollar coins in Denver. 
 
FOSTER: Tropical storm Bret is getting stronger, with winds now near hurricane strength. It's expected to roar across the eastern Caribbean Islands today. St. Lucia has issued a hurricane watch and a tropical storm warning is in effect for Dominica and Martinique. The storm is currently about 250 miles, 460 kilometers, east of Barbados, though it's gaining forward speed. 
 
The storm is forecast to move across the Lesser Antilles in the coming hours, then weaken as it moves westward. We expect another update from the National Hurricane Center later this hour. But right now, we're going to get back to our top story in the search
 
 for the missing sub in the North Atlantic. Joining me on the phone from Oxford, England, former Royal Navy Captain Ryan Ramsey. Thank you for joining us. Obviously, the focus today is on how critical the coming hours are, because, you know, from what we know, oxygen will be running out. What do you think the rescuers will be focusing on today? 
 
RYAN RAMSEY, FORMER ROYAL NAVY CAPTAIN (via phone): I think there's a lot front them to focus. Like we say, this is a tapped in timeframe, and (INAUDIBLE) environment. So, I expect those coordinating rescues and those at the rescue site are working out options about how they're going to recover -- recover the submersible. If they locate it. 
 
NOBILO: What are the strongest leads that you think the rescue crews will be pursuing at this critical time? 
 
RAMSEY: So, I think they'll be asking for more clarity about the sounds detected by the Canadian maritime patrol aircraft, in order to enable some form of location. So, they've heard sounds, and they need verification as to whether they've actually come from the submersible itself. And then location is key, if you could imagine the submersible is somewhere between six or seven meters, and it may be among the wreckage of the Titanic. So, trying to get some clarity as to where it is will become vital. 
 
FOSTER: If they get that in the coming hours, they've got this French submersible, haven't they, on the way to the area, and that's pretty much their only hope for getting to the surface. 
 
RAMSEY: That's correct. So, I mean, nothing like this has ever been attempted before. And then the issue is always pushing the endeavors more in order to save lives. And everything they do now is a first, effectively. So, there's lots of variables within that. And we can hope for success, but the reality is -- and I'm a realist about this -- the odds are very much against. 
 
NOBILO: And Ryan, are you aware to how much of the Titanic wreckage has actually been explored and searched for the Titan? 
 
RAMSEY: No, I don't have that data. I don't have that data. But I can only assume that you can't conduct a detailed search like that until you're able to get remotely operated vehicles or submersibles close to the -- close to the Titanic itself. 
 
FOSTER: What do you imagine the conditions are like down there, right now 
 
RAMSEY: The conditions on the submersible must be nothing less than horrendous. The water temperature at that depth is between one degree and freezing at zero degree Celsius. It will be dark, power will be out, air is running out, carbon dioxide is building up and the team, you know, the team of explorers are down there -- have been down there for quite a while now. So, it must be -- it must be horrendous and relies on their strength of character to keep going. 
 
NOBILO: It just gets no less horrific to hear these descriptions of what it could be like. That is the situation they're in. I'm sure you've listened or have read reports of the press conference that was given last night where they made reference to not just the amount of oxygen that's left but other data points. Perhaps referencing the carbon dioxide that you just mentioned. Give us some insight into that. It's not just about oxygen, is it, in terms of keeping this crew alive. 
 
RAMSEY: No, it's not. And in any submersible or submersible there's two elements. Oxygen, you need, but obviously breathe out and you need some form of capabilities to extract that carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Otherwise you get a carbon dioxide buildup. And that ends up being the thing that takes life. And so, on submarines that I've operated on, there's always carbon dioxide absorption units which deal with this. And we're not -- I looked at the footage of the submersible and I couldn't see anything major enough to deal with that. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
FOSTER: Is there frustration amongst Navy colleagues about the fact that this exposition took place when there wasn't a plan to extract them when needed. 
 
RAMSEY: I think when this is investigated property, those are the questions that need to be asked. It seems to me if you take huge amounts of risk when you go to sea even if you're on the surface, you take more risk if you're a submariner. And it seems to me that whether they understood the risk that were involved that those who operated the platform, must have had some sort of escape plan should something go wrong. And clearly that hasn't worked. But the investigation after is we'll find out all these details. 
 
NOBILO: Many voices in the international community do seem to be stunned by the rudimentary nature of parts of this Titan vessel, and what we now have learned a historical concerns about it. Is this hindsight because of what's going on right now? Or would you, yourself, have had serious concerns about boarding a submersible like this if this hadn't happened? 
 
RAMSEY: Yes, well I would've had concerns. I mean, it's not -- it wouldn't be something that I'd want to do. But I would look at it from a professional view. And having been a submariner for 23 years, and operated in a highly complex environments outside of the submarine service, I'd be looking at that. I don't think that I would step on board and go to sea with it. Because from the daily footage you see that there may have been issues to look at with that. So, I think as a commercial submariner it's not something that I would or wanted to engage in. 
 
FOSTER: Ryan Ramsey, thank you so much. And we will obviously continue to follow this on this critical day. But a huge operation out there now trying to get it up.
 
NOBILO: As Ryan was saying, nothing like this has ever been attempted before. And usually such an engagement would take months for planning. And they just don't have that time. And our rescuers are still trying to get to the site itself. Coming, up a "Wall Street Journal" reporter heads to court and Russia,
 
 to try to stay out of jail until this trial. We'll have a live report on his legal battles. 
 
FOSTER: Plus, Indians Prime Minister is on a state visit to the U.S. with Washington looking at New Delhi as a key ally to counter China's growing influence in the region. 
 
NOBILO: And prosecutors now say that they have more hard evidence linking suspect Brian Kohberger to the murders of four university students in Idaho. Those details and much more coming up, just ahead. 
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: We are getting word of a Ukrainian strike in a bridge known as the gates to Crimea. 
 
NOBILO: A Russian installed official says the attack targeted the bridge near the town of Chonhar connecting the peninsula with the occupied part of southern Ukraine. He says there are no casualties but the traffic has been temporarily diverted. The official also says the British supplied Storm's Shadow missiles may have been used in the strike. 
 
FOSTER: Meanwhile, Ukraine says it's slow grinding counteroffensive is showing noticeable success in the south. It posted this video. Reportedly showing Ukrainian strikes in the Tavria sector on Wednesday. Ukraine says it destroyed the equivalent of three Russian companies over the last day in its troops continue to advance. 
 
NOBILO: Kyiv also says it repelled multiple Russian attacks in the Donetsk region on Wednesday. But Russian President Vladimir Putin claims, without evidence, that Ukraine has slowed down its offensives because it took serious losses. 
 
FOSTER: Ukraine says Russia's is employing new tactics in its aerial strikes across the country. It says Russian operators fly their drones and missiles along rivers to avoid Ukraine's air defenses. But as Fred Pleitgen reports, Ukrainian Navy ships are trying to counter the move. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Night after night, a common theme. Russian aerial attacks on Ukraine cities, air defense viciously fighting back from land, the air and from the water.
 
We got exclusive access to Ukrainian Navy patrol boats that are part of that fight.
 
PLEITGEN: The Ukrainians say the Russians often fly drones and even cruise missiles along rivers to avoid air defenses. That's why boats like this one play an important role keeping both cities but also critical infrastructure safe. PLEITGEN (voice-over): The commander who only gave his name as "Anton" says air defense is a key component of their mission.
 
PLEITGEN: Are you effective?
 
ANTON, COMMANDER, UKRAINIAN NAVY: So I cannot answer that question how effective we are. But so are we effective? I would say yes.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): As Ukraine presses on with its counteroffensive, Kyiv acknowledges the Russians are putting up stiff resistance, every yard of territory hard fought.
 
We would certainly like to make bigger steps, the Ukrainian president says. They are smaller than we want but, nevertheless, those who fight shall win.
 
Moscow claiming they are repelling Ukraine's attempted advances. Russian President Vladimir Putin saying his troops are wearing the Ukrainians down. 
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Currently, we're seeing a certain lull. It has to do with the fact that the enemy is suffering serious losses.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): The Ukrainians fear the Russians might try to infiltrate and destabilize cities like Kyiv or smuggle weapons here. So the Navy crew searches all boats and barges on the river. In this search, it was an all clear.
 
ANTON: We will make search of their suspect vessel. In the meantime, we'll be surrounding them to make sure that nobody is going to leave the vessel, that they will be under attack.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Their work they say even more pressing after the recent destruction of the Nova Kakhovka dam which the Russians and Ukrainians blame on each other.
 
ANTON: The river is also a strategic object. Especially now as you could see what happened in Kakhovka. So now you can understand how it is important to make it a safe and secure place. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
NOBILO: This hour, "Wall Street Journal" reporter, Evan Gershkovich is expected to appear in court in Moscow to fight his detention in Russia. He's appealing a recent ruling to keep him behind bars until his trial on August 30th. Gershkovich was arrested on espionage charges in March and faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted. The newspaper vehemently denies those accusations. 
 
FOSTER: And to another case, Russia's Supreme Court is expected to decide whether it will allow jailed opposition figure Alexey Navalny to resume contact with the outside world. Right now Navalny is only allowed to speak through his lawyers. 
 
NOBILO: Nic Robertson has been monitoring those developments for us. He joins us here with more. Nic, as far as Evan Gershkovich is concerned, we've heard a development from TASS, Russia's news state agency earlier today. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, they're saying that there's a possibility that U.S. representatives could have access to him. They've denied this on a couple of occasion. He was last in court about a month ago and that was when it was the court decided that his detention was going to be extended to the end of August. So it was appealed. The U.S. has been trying to get access to him since then. It doesn't happen. 
 
The State Department says that they will have an embassy representative in the courtroom. We still don't know if Evan will be in the courtroom or will be appearing there virtually. But according to the deputy foreign minister at Moscow today -- or one of the deputy foreign ministers in Moscow today -- he has said that they are considering the U.S. request to see Evan. 
 
FOSTER: In terms of Navalny, it seems very unlikely they'll allow him to speak to the outside world. It's very clear he's not going to be positive about the regime. 
 
ROBERTSON: Well, and this is sort of what he's saying as well. We're getting new details about this. He's been in the courtroom this morning already. So, the new details we have that we understand is, he's appealing to the Supreme Court to allow prisoners. And he says that it's not just important for him but for other prisoners to have access to writing materials. But he says right now that's not outside the, you know, access to writing materials, pen, paper, et cetera, in prison. It's not outside the criminal code -- the penal criminal code in Russia. 
 
But it does, he says, fall under the control of the governor of the prison. And he said if the governor of the person doesn't like you or he thinks you're going to write unfavorably about him and criticize him, then he'll control whether or not you could get pen and paper. And he said, you know, prisoners is completely arbitrary. A prisoner can get a pen and paper for an hour a day or 15 minutes a day. He said it could take him a week to write a letter. And we know in Navalny's case, his communications in particular with his wife, the letters they've exchanged, they're hugely important to them. 
 
You know it's a morale thing as much as it is a messaging thing for Navalny. He has been shown he's absolutely fearless to take on the system where he thinks it's a legal ground to be made. And this is clearly one of those cases in the writing material. I think, again, exemplifies his position, but that of the plight of many fellow prisoners. 
 
NOBILO: It's so interesting, isn't it? With Navalny, that obviously, he doesn't make it easier for himself. If he could use his own plight to make a broader point or attack Putin's regime, then he always does. Which obviously isn't going to help his case whatsoever. ROBERTSON: And we heard just a couple of days ago that his eyesight is
 
 being affected by the harsh light to the prison cell during the night. These are all the sorts of ways that the government can control his custody. And therefore impact his ability and willingness to keep on taking them on. So far, it's not working. His weight is down as well. That's another concern for his team. It's having a physical and mental impact. But so far, he seems able to withstand it, fight back.
 
NOBILO: Nic Robertson, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
FOSTER: Still to come, the search intensifies for the missing submersible in the North Atlantic. CNN spoke with an expert who says that sub's problematic construction raised major concerns. 
 
NOBILO: Plus, Washington is strengthening its ties with New Delhi with a state visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Why the U.S. hopes that this will help keep China's influence in the region in check.
 <br>[04:30:00]