Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Supreme Court Decision On Next Step For Abortion Pill Expected Today; Sources: Biden To Announce Re-Election Bid Next Week; GOP House Leaders Press Blinken As Part Of Hunter Biden Probe. Aired 2-2:30p ET

Aired April 21, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Bracing for a decision. Any moment now, the Supreme Court could issue a ruling about a long-used abortion medication. It will have far-reaching impacts on this country. Justices are up against a midnight deadline. We're on top of it.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Plus, a major misfire. A Russian warplane mistakenly drops a bomb on Russia. The bomb is so powerful it blew a car onto a roof. This happening as Vladimir Putin's war pushes Ukraine closer to the West. President Zelenskyy now accepting an invitation to this summer's NATO Summit.
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: And the Canadian cargo caper. Thieves make off with $15 million worth of gold and valuables from Toronto's airport. And investigators, they are stumped. We're covering all the major developing stories and more all coming in right here to CNN NEW CENTRAL.
 
SCIUTTO: A blockbuster decision is expected at any moment about how this country handles mifepristone. That's the pill most commonly used for inducing at-home abortions and for treating miscarriages. The Supreme Court set the deadline at 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time tonight to issue its ruling.
 
Important to note. It will not be the final say on what happens with this pill around the country. But what the justices decide today could end the mailing of mifepristone, at least in the short term. And not just in states where abortion is banned, we should know but everywhere in the country, including all the purple you see in the map here indicating the states where abortion remains legal.
 
Let's break this all down for us. CNN Justice Correspondent Jessica Schneider here. Jessica, I mean, first of all, there's a range of decisions we could hear from the Supreme Court in the next few minutes -- 
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Right.
 
SCIUTTO: -- or hours from a stay to issuing new restrictions for this drug. SCHNEIDER: Yes, it's basically between do they extend the stay, which would keep everything with the abortion pill status quo, or do they end this stay and those restrictions would go into effect. It's important to note though, Jim, the Supreme Court could also decide to take up this case, fast track it even more than it is. Because the underlying issue, in this case, is whether the FDA followed the proper procedures and initially approving this drug all the way back in 2000.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: So, what could the Supreme Court do here? Like I said, they could continue this stay. They could say everything that has happened below is on hold until this appeals process plays out.
 
SCIUTTO: Right.
 
SCHNEIDER: The Fifth Circuit has already expedited everything for oral arguments in less than a month, May 17. Or the Supreme Court could let either all or some of these restrictions go into effect.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: So, what would the restrictions be? First of all, women up to seven weeks pregnant would be allowed to take the pill but not beyond that. Currently -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Not 10 weeks. Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: Exactly. It's currently 10 weeks. It would also, oddly enough change the dosing. Many years ago, the FDA said you actually needed a lesser dosage.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: It was just as effective. But the higher dosage would go back into effect. Also, this would require women to see -- to go to more in-person visits as opposed to now less.
 
SCIUTTO: Right.
 
SCHNEIDER: It would also eliminate the mailing option, as you mentioned at the top of this. And it would get rid of the generic version of the drug -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: -- which makes up a majority of -- 
 
SCIUTTO: A majority.
 
SCHNEIDER: -- what people take.
 
SCIUTTO: And as always with generic versions, often much -- 
 
SCHNEIDER: Cheaper?
 
SCIUTTO: Cheaper.
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: Now, I thought when Roe v. Wade was overturned that the justices said, specifically Judge Kavanaugh, this will not affect abortion access in states that allow abortion. They were just going to let the states decide here.
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: But this decision would have national implications.
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes. We're seeing that.
 
SCIUTTO: Well.
 
SCHNEIDER: We're seeing this patchwork of federal judges across the U.S. make different decisions when it comes to abortion, not exactly leaving it up to the states. It's important to note though, Jim, this doesn't directly impact the issue of abortion. This is more about the issue of did the FDA go through the proper procedures -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: -- and initially approving this drug? That's what makes this case a little bit different.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: In past cases, even the conservative justices have largely deferred to the FDA -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: -- when it comes to their decision-making, their scientific reasoning. So, it's going to be interesting here to see how the justices come down on this -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SCHNEIDER: -- if some of them are right dissenting or concurring opinions. So, time is ticking.
 
SCIUTTO: And do they change the way the FDA handles not just this drug, but other drugs?
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: I mean, you -- listen, it's a big deal. That's why we're staying on top of it.
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: Jessica Schneider, thanks so much. Boris?
 <br>[14:05:02] SANCHEZ: Looking overseas now. A powerful blast overnight right in the center of Belgorod, Russia near the Ukrainian border. Not the work of Ukrainian forces, but a Russian fighter jet. You see debris flying through the air.
 
The Kremlin says one of its own warplanes accidentally dropped a bomb right in the middle of the city. Russia says the blast injured two people and caused this giant crater. 65 feet wide.
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh is live for us in eastern Ukraine. Nick, do we know anything more about what led to this colossal mistake?
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, not a lot to be honest. And the statement quoted by Russian-state media essentially refers to an accident here. An SU-35 bombing jets are often used at a distance to hit targets in Ukraine seemingly -- we don't know if it's really dropped it by accident or chose to find an incorrect target, dropping this munition. Significant damage caused to an apartment block although extraordinarily only two people injured -- two women, one with a head trauma and another who was treated for lacerations at the scene.
 
But, you know, this war frankly exposed to many the inadequacies of the Russian military, long vaunted as it was. But for many Ukrainians on the receiving end of Russia's indiscriminate, inaccurate, and persistent bombing over the past year or so to see a mistake like this on Russia's own territory, cold comfort frankly, Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: And, Nick, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg is in Germany today meeting with Ukrainian defense officials. And he said flat-out, the future for Ukraine is in NATO.
 
PATON WALSH: Yes. But they got a lot of stuff to take care of first, and he was quite clear to point out the priority is to be sure that Ukraine is armed adequately and able to prevail in this war against Russia. Be in no mistake here, getting someone into NATO is a complex diplomatic and political task.
 
They've struggled to get Sweden and Finland into NATO recently. Turkish and Hungarian objections partially in the mix there too. But here's Jens Stoltenberg's some words on the issue.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: All NATO allies have agreed that Ukraine will become a NATO member. But the main focus now is, of course, on how to ensure that Ukraine prevails.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PATON WALSH: The -- a big task because obviously Ukraine has to significantly overhaul its armed forces to NATO standards and also to get out of a war with Russia. Because if it's part of NATO when it's fighting Russia, NATO could get dragged into it. So, a long task ahead, but a strong message of solidarity with Ukraine. Boris? SANCHEZ: And, Nick, as we were speaking, the Kremlin has now responded to that comment from Jen Stoltenberg, saying that, essentially it is dangerous for the future. The Russian foreign minister there not happy with that. Nick Paton Walsh from eastern Ukraine, thank you so much. Brianna?
 
KEILAR: Boris, now to another raging battle, this one in Sudan where just moments ago, one of the country's two warring factions said it would abide by a 72-hour ceasefire that has been very shaky so far. And the U.S. State Department is developing military and evacuation options for Sudan as the situation is deteriorating.
 
The fighting has been mostly centered in the capital city of Khartoum. Smoke and flame scene near the Presidential Palace, the Army Headquarters, and the airport. This is some of the gunfire that is forcing residents to scramble for shelter.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: CNN's Nima al Elbagir is joining us now. Nima, I know that you have some new reporting here on how the Russian mercenary group Wagner is actually arming the militia that is fighting Sudan's army here. What can you tell us?
 
Well, we cross-reference satellite imagery, what sources were telling us both regional and Sudanese sources with video that we obtained. And what we uncovered was proof -- was evidence that Wagner was departing that -- Russian planes were departing from Wagner bases in Libya, crossing into Sudanese airspace to airdrop supplies into an RSF Garrison, A rapid support forces, Sudanese paramilitary Garrison, helping the RSF turn the tide in one of the fiercest battles at that point in the fighting around the main military airport in Merowe.
 
I should say that we've reached out to Field Marshal Haftar, whose territory -- from his territory these flights were being launched. He did not respond to our request for comment. But Yevgeny Prigozhin, the head of Wagner responded today and called our reporting an attempt at provocation.
 <br>[14:10:05]
 
So, the RSF now have also responded to us, saying that they do not receive any Libyan or Wagner support. However, they did acknowledge that they have previously received it. And I hope this isn't confusing to our audience, Brianna, after having initially denied that they had ever received Wagner's reporting. So, I think the audience has to take that into account with regards to their denial.
 
KEILAR: Yes. I mean, I think the truth is provocative. That is something that we could certainly say, Nima. I did mention that the U.S. has been developing military and evacuation options for Sudan. This really has to do more with U.S. officials there, right?
 
This isn't what they're expecting when it comes to private citizens. In fact, the State Department now being clear, they should not be expecting some sort of help. But when it comes to this ceasefire, is there any expectation that this is going to be holding especially at this critical time at the end of Ramadan?
 
ELBAGIR: Yes. Today is, of course, the first day of Eid al-Fitr, the Muslim festival post the holy fasting month. And unfortunately, it does not appear that the ceasefire on whom so many people not, of course, just the U.S. diplomats currently trapped in Sudan, were holding out hopeful.
 
We received reports just before I came on-air that the Sudanese armed forces are already accusing the rapid support forces of violating the ceasefire. And the U.S. had been watching very closely to see whether this would be an opportunity to safely start putting plans into place. Not just the U.S., also Spain, they say were looking for opportunities to evacuate their own nationals and others.
 
The situation on the ground complicates it for everyone, the foreign nationals, and the people currently trying to figure out whether they should shelter in place or try to get out of the capital. It just feels like there is no end to this misery, Brianna.
 
KEILAR: All right, well keep an eye on this. I know you certainly are, Nima. Nima Elbagir, thank you so much for the latest on this.
 
ELBAGIR: Thank you.
 
KEILAR: Jim?
 
SCIUTTO: So, are you ready for round two? With President Biden's expected announcement next week, the 2024 race could turn into a second matchup between Trump and Biden. But first, Trump has to get past his likely opponent, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis. And it's a battle over endorsements at home. We'll tell you who's winning right now.
 
And later, more than a dozen state attorneys general want Kia and Hyundai to recall several models of cars because they are too easy to steal. We're going to explain exactly why. That's just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:16:31]
 
KEILAR: One of Washington's worst-kept secrets is expected to become official news next week. CNN has learned that President Biden plans to formally announce his 2024 candidacy on Tuesday with a campaign-style video. And political junkies out there may notice that Tuesday marks exactly four years since Biden launched his 2020 campaign.
 
CNN's Phil Mattingly is at the White House. Phil, this wasn't always the plan right to line up here on the anniversary, but this is where they ended up.
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Brianna, it's interesting. The president late last year said a couple of times he expected to make the decision very early on in 2023. Pass that though, this was a really great window into when the total dearth of information happens in Washington people, start to speculate and speculate a lot. And there were certainly outside advisors, other top Democratic officials that were eyeing whether it's February, March, maybe early April, lining up with what President Obama did back in 2011.
 
But I think the importance of this anniversary, this four-year since he launched his campaign in 2019. And really the thread -- the connective thread between that campaign to his first two-plus years in office to now and what he wants to do going forward is something that the president is quite fond of. And I think it's something that underscores the fact that for all of the things they believe they've accomplished in those first two years, there was more work to be done.
 
Now, it's worth noting. The President hasn't officially signed off according to people familiar with the plan with the Tuesday announcement. We'll be heading to Camp David soon, definitely headed in that direction. Advisors make clear though, that this is a moment where they're not going to talk about anything until it's official.
 
A lot of tea leaf reading though. He's talking to a major labor union legislative conference on Tuesday, the same day he would potentially announce here. And even the White House Navy mess, Brianna. Right now in the menu, according to one spy who sent me a photo of this, Chicago themed. Just a couple of weeks after the president decided Chicago would be where the Democratic National Committee -- convention would be.
 
KEILAR: That's not very secretive. I'm just going to put that out there. But, Phil, you're a very, very good figure outer so, there's also that.
 
MATTINGLY: Thanks -- thank you. Yes.
 
KEILAR: Phil, thank you so much for that report. Jim?
 
SCIUTTO: All right, Briana, you're on the Democratic side. Let's go to the Republican side for the 2024 race. A home state rivalry between former President Trump and Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has defined the GOP campaign so far, even though DeSantis has not even entered the race yet. Trump has used the head start to build a serious fundraising advantage, as well as a stack of endorsements from Republicans from the state of Florida, six in the House formally backing Trump over their own sitting governor.
 
So, let's discuss now with CNN's Senior Political Correspondent and Inside Politics Sunday anchor Abby Phillip. So, first of all, good to have you.
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN ANCHOR &amp; SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi.
 
SCIUTTO: Do these endorsements at this stage of the race in the House -- you know, the Congress, do they matter for candidates?
 
PHILLIP: Generally speaking, I do not believe endorsements matter. Not when it comes to voters. But what this does tell you is that the betting money in Florida is not on Ron DeSantis.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
PHILLIP: It is on Donald Trump. That is really all it tells us at this moment. These lawmakers are basically making a gamble that they don't want to be on the wrong side of Donald Trump because they think that at the end of all of this, he will end up being the nominee. And so, take that for what you will, it doesn't tell us how voters are going to vote -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Right.
 
PHILLIP: -- but it tells us that the political brain trust, at least in Congress right now, they're not willing to take the gamble on Ron DeSantis.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
PHILLIP: Especially given the last couple of weeks that he's had.
 
SCIUTTO: Well, and by the way, those members of Congress, they're talking to voters, right? So, they have a sense of where voters might be leaning.
 
PHILLIP: Yes.
 <br>[14:20:02]
 
SCIUTTO: There's been a lot of reporting lately about the contrast between not just Trump's personality, but his way of seeking out these endorsements.
 
PHILLIP: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: The reporting being that Trump makes the call himself. DeSantis has his staff reach out. In your reporting, is that -- does that make a difference for these decisions?
 
PHILLIP: It absolutely makes a difference. And it actually makes a lot of sense. I mean, I covered Trump for years. I think one of the biggest misconceptions about Trump is that he is a clumsy political actor.
 
But he actually has really finely tuned political instincts about how to get people on his side. And he is often the first person to pick up the phone and call someone. And that is generally how he approaches things.
 
And what's interesting, actually, for people who are not involved in politics is that it does matter to these lawmakers. There was one Republican congressman who said that he got into an accident and Trump not only called him after his accident to find out how he was doing but called him to ask for his endorsement. Those calls do matter.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. PHILLIP: Ron DeSantis -- I mean, I think the reporting is that he is not as much of a high-touch politician. Will that change in this playing field? I think it might have to.
 
SCIUTTO: Right.
 
PHILLIP: Just sort of deal with a Donald Trump of it all who is constantly, constantly on the phone.
 
SCIUTTO: Lisen. Trump made a lot of calls to try to overturn the election as well.
 
PHILLIP: Exactly.
 
SCIUTTO: He gets involved himself.
 
PHILLIP: Exactly.
 
SCIUTTO: OK. So, let's look at the latest polling. This, from the Wall Street Journal. Trump now has the backing of a majority of Republicans, a double-digit lead over DeSantis 51 to 38. That's actually flipped in the last couple of months.
 
PHILLIP: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: That is quite a big deal, particularly in that timeframe Trump was indicted in New York.
 
PHILLIP: Yes. I mean, look, the political analysis, I think that dominated in that time around the indictment is that Trump was going to benefit in the short term with Republican voters really coalescing around him. And that could not have happened at a worse time for Ron DeSantis. He was really struggling as he was just emerging onto the national stage. Stumbling over Ukraine, stumbling over whether or not to even attack Trump.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
PHILLIP: And then for Trump to then start to coalesce, Republican voters, I think it was the worst possible timing. And DeSantis now has a bigger challenge, and that is just more of what he's always been dealing with. He has to catch up now to a candidate that is double digits ahead of him and Republican voters has universal name ID and was once the president of the United States.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
PHILLIP: That is a very difficult thing to do. And he's not -- he's not even in the race yet.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
PHILLIP: I think every single day that goes by, it gets more and more difficult.
 
SCIUTTO: And there are others jumping in, and Chris Christie trying to flame -- frame himself now as a -- as one potential replacement for both of them. We'll watch where that goes.
 
PHILLIP: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: Abby Phillip. Be sure to watch Abby this Sunday, 11:00 a.m. for Inside Politics. I'll be watching. I bet you will be too, Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: You know it, Jim. House Republicans are pressing forward with their investigation into Hunter Biden's laptop. What they want to ask Secretary of State Tony Blinken about when we come back. And the suspect accused of shooting a six-year-old girl and her parents over a runaway basketball, he's in court today after turning himself in. We have details on that in minutes.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:27:47]
 
KEILAR: It is deadline day for the Supreme Court to decide if a Texas judge's ruling that blocked access to a widely used and FDA-approved abortion drug can go into effect. It will also decide whether or not to extend a temporary hold on a subsequent appeals court ruling which would let the government's approval of the drug stand but allow limited access. The court has until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time tonight to issue its ruling.
 
And a Russian fighter jet unintentionally bombed one of its own cities near the border with Ukraine, causing a large explosion and injuring two people. State media and local officials say the impact left a huge crater and damaged several buildings.
 
Speaker of the House Kevin McCarthy is still working out a debt ceiling plan, unveiled a proposal to raise the debt ceiling with big spending cuts to President Biden's agenda. McCarthy accused the president of wanting to ignore the problem and called on Biden to come to the negotiating table, and said he would be corralling lawmakers' votes through the weekend. Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Republican chairs of the House Judiciary and Intelligence Committees are asking Secretary of State Antony Blinken to explain his role in casting doubt on the Hunter Biden laptop controversy. The chairman says that he played a key role in the inception of a 2020 letter signed by dozens of former intelligence officers claiming the laptop story had signs of a Russian disinformation operation. Remember, at the time, he was an advisor for Joe Biden's presidential campaign.
 
CNN's Paula Reid joins us now. Paula, bring us up to speed. What's the latest you're hearing from sources?
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL CORRESPONDENT: So, in this letter specifically, they're alleging that the Biden campaign was working with national security officials to try to discredit stories about Hunter Biden's laptop. It -- but this comes amid a lot of other questions this week in particular about what is going on with the president's son. Most notably, an IRS agent came forward seeking whistleblower protection so that they can share what they allegedly know with Congress.
 
Now, according to our sources, this person is going to allege that Hunter Biden's case was treated differently than other cases and that there was political interference. This individual also allegedly has information that would contradict testimony by Attorney General Merrick Garland about there being no political interference in this case.
 
But, Boris, I want to caution. This person does not yet have whistleblower status.
 
SANCHEZ: Right.