Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Protests & Strikes Rock Israel After Netanyahu Fires Defense Minister; Netanyahu To Demonstrators: "Behave Responsibly"; Diplomats At Israel's U.S. Embassy To Join Strike Call. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired March 27, 2023 - 10:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:52]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm Becky Anderson live from Abu Dhabi. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. Coming up this hour. 
 
Mass protests in Israel as a general strike grips the country. 
 
A violent day in the war in Ukraine with a deadly attack reported in the east. 
 
All flights canceled at Munich Airport as a mega strike hits Germany.
 
"Madness and a loss of control and direction," former Israeli Prime Minister Yair Lapid using those words to describe what is happening in 
 
 Israel right now after his successor, Benjamin Netanyahu, sacked the Defense Minister for wanting to halt the judicial overhaul plan. That, in 
 
 turn, set off scenes like these that you are seeing here. Mass protests, a general strike called, impacting everything, from medical workers, to 
 
 universities, to restaurants. And flights to and from Israel's main airport, disrupted. 
 
Let's get you more on this with Danny Danon. He's Chairman of World Likud and Former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations. He's joining me from 
 
 Tel Aviv. There have been reports, Danny, that Benjamin Netanyahu will speak today. Do you expect him to do so? And if so, what do you expect him 
 
 to say?
 
DANNY DANON, FORMER ISRAELI AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS: Good afternoon, Becky. I expect that Prime Minister Netanyahu will address the 
 
 nation later on tonight. And I expect him to say that we will pause the legislation until after our holidays, mainly Passover, that's coming in the 
 
 next few days. It will allow our people, our nation to sit down, to reconsolidate, to talk about the future, and to think about ways where we 
 
 can move forward with the judicial reform, but maybe to think, what about unity. 
 
What we have seen in the last few days is massive demonstrations. Tonight, you will see demonstrations from both sides, from the right and left coming 
 
 to demonstrate in Jerusalem, in front of our parliament, the Knesset. So, I think it will be the right thing to do, to wait for our discussion and then 
 
 to move forward in a month or two.
 
ANDERSON: Let's talk about these reforms. Will you vote for them? 
 
DANON: Well, in general, I told my colleagues in the Likud Party that I support the ideas of the reform, but I don't think the way we introduced 
 
 them was the right way. I think we should have done it slower. I think we should have done it after dialogue with provision. But in general, I do 
 
 believe that the legislative branch, the Knesset, the parliament, should be the one to decide about the main issues in our society, and not the Supreme 
 
 Court. 
 
In the last few years, the Supreme Court was very involved. It took a lot of power from the Knesset, and I think that should be changed, but we have 
 
 to do it in a different way.
 
ANDERSON: If he doesn't call for a suspension at this point, what will happen?
 
DANON: Well, the demonstrations will continue, you know. We will be seeing massive demonstrations. And, you know, I respect those who are 
 
 demonstrating, but some are very radical. And I think it will not be pleasant. But, you know, I'm hearing (INAUDIBLE) that I speak with my 
 
 colleagues in the government and the general feeling is that we all agree that now, we have to wait. 
 
You know, last week I suggested to my colleagues, let's wait until after the break, and then we can come together and we work. They didn't they 
 
 accept my proposal. And I think today, they will have no choice but to wait and come back in a month's time. 
 
ANDERSON: You said they'll have no choice. Why is that?
 
DANON: Because basically, I think many people who also support the reform feel that the way it was done, it was not appropriate. So basically, you 
 
 see people from the center, some from the right, that want us to change the legislation on those issues, understand it should be done, but they wanted 
 
 to take it slower. It's a very sensitive issue when you speak about the balance of power between the Supreme Court and the parliament. And the 
 
 people in Israel, you know, we value our democracy. Some of them have no reason to be afraid, but I believe that our democracy will stay very strong 
 
 in the future as well. But, you know, the way things are being done is very important.
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
ANDERSON: Is this about math, then, as far as you are concerned, because Benjamin Netanyahu will be very mindful of how many votes he can afford to 
 
 lose and still get the major elements of the over Hall through the Knesset. To your mind, then, does he not have the votes? Is that why you believe it 
 
 is likely that he will step back?
 
DANON: Actually, Becky, on the opposite. I think he could have gotten the votes today if he wanted to. But it's not enough to get the vote in the 
 
 parliament. You need the public to be behind you. That's the idea of a democracy. And I think what's happened now in the process, the way it was 
 
 presented, and put to the system, that the votes are here. We still have the majority in the parliament. But I don't think we have the support of 
 
 the public for those ideas. That's why we have to think about how we do it. And we want to have at least a month to do that.
 
ANDERSON: Israel's largest union, Histadrut, called in a historic general strike today. That includes a large list of affected employers, both in the 
 
 private, public, and business sectors. The Director General of the Union, who is also a former IDF spokesman, told CNN that this is an open-ended 
 
 strike until Netanyahu listens to the people. I just want our viewers and you to have a listen to what else he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
PETER LERNER, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF INTL. RELATIONS, HISTDARUT: We have ports, we have airports, we have shopping centers, we have the public 
 
 service, the public sector, the Israeli embassies around the world are shutting their doors to diplomacy. And, you know, we have to be concerned 
 
 about where Israel is going. And we have to make sure that Netanyahu understands the gravity of his of his actions.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ANDERSON: Does he? Does he understand the gravity of his actions, Danny?
 
DANON: I believe so. And I think, you know, within two to three hours, Becky, the Prime Minister will address the nation, and all the strikes will 
 
 end. We will continue with our daily life preparing for the holidays, the Muslims celebrating Ramadan, the Jews going to celebrate Passover, the 
 
 Christian will celebrate Easter, and I think we'll go back to our life. 
 
But I think what we saw today was a strong pushback on different sectors in our democracy. And I can tell you that I'm proud of our democracy. You 
 
 know, I said that, the U.N. for many years, and many countries say that they are a very strong democracy, but I think what we saw today, and I'm 
 
 saying to you, as somebody who's coming from the coalition, what you saw today, we saw a sign of the strength of this very democracy.
 
ANDERSON: Can you still support Benjamin Netanyahu? 
 
DANON: Absolutely. I know support the Prime Minister. I think people in Israel still support him and see him as the White leader, but then it also 
 
 it's legitimate to criticize or to think differently. And that's what will happen in the Knesset. We will continue with the legislation with other 
 
 things. We have a lot of security issues and that's one of the issues that is being discussed a lot, whether it is the timing when we have threats 
 
 coming from Hizballah in Lebanon, and Iran, whether the timing is the right timing to do what we are doing now.
 
ANDERSON: Net-Net, is this the right government for Israel at this point, or should Netanyahu collapse this government?
 
DANON: Well, only a few months ago, the public went to the polls, and the majority of Israelis voted for this government. So, we should respect the 
 
 democracy. Even when you see that the minority is not happy with it, we should respect the results. But it's legitimate to criticize the 
 
 government. It's legitimate to demonstrate against the government. And it's our duty at the government to listen to the people, even after we won the 
 
 elections.
 
ANDERSON: I think it's a bit of a push to say that the majority of Israelis voted for the makeup of this government, given its very right-wing, and 
 
 some call right religious makeup at this point. We are seeing condemnation coming from across the globe, including Israel's most important ally, the 
 
 United States. Is Israel's relationship with its main ally at a critical point at this point? Is it at risk? Do you worry about that?
 
DANON: "I'm not worried about that. We have a strong bond with the U.S., you know. Our values are still very similar to the American values and, you 
 
 know, we saw the any democracies have their issues, you know. It happened in the U.S. after the election over there, we have our own issues as well. 
 
 But at the end of the day, you cannot find so many strong democracies around the world, and especially not in the Middle East. So I think the 
 
 Americans still value the principles that we protect here in the region. 
 
ANDERSON: Well, they've certainly, though, Danny, with the greatest of respect, talked about the importance of the democracy, that is Israel, and 
 
 a voice, real concerns. 
 <br>[10:10:10]
 
They've talked about ensuring a de-escalation of violence, a de-escalation of the rhetoric, and we are not seeing that from this Israeli government. 
 
 And there is significant concern in the region where I am here in the Gulf. So, I put it to you, again, is what is going on in Israel, at this point, a 
 
 concern to you about Israel's reputation, about where it is headed next, and how concerned are you about further violence at this point? You pointed 
 
 out, this is a really important time with Ramadan, and Passover, and Easter, all coming at the same time. Just how concerned are you at this 
 
 point?
 
DANON: Well, I'm not concerned about our democracy and not about our image. But I will tell you that, Becky, that, you know, our enemies are looking at 
 
 what's happening in Israel, and they might try to test us, and I want to send a message to them, that they should know that if they will try to take 
 
 advantage of what we are seeing in Israel, and to attack us, they will pay a heavy price because at the end of the day, we know when to come together 
 
 and to stand together to defend our people. And I would advise the Hizballah in Lebanon, and many other leaders not to test us.
 
ANDERSON: I have to just press you on this because it is not just your enemies as you describe them, and I'm assuming you're talking about Iran 
 
 there, but many of the Arab nations, not least those who have normalized relations with Israel. I'm talking about the U.A.E. and others have haveput 
 
 out statements of significant condemnation of late. So, I put it to you again, how concerned are you about an uptick, a further uptick in violence, 
 
 and about Israel's reputation and relationships in this region and around the world?
 
DANON: Well, I'm not concerned. I think what we will see in the next few days, that it will be quiet, and it will still be demonstration, but not 
 
 violent, you know. And also, so far, we have seen the control of the political situation is not bad. And regarding our image, we should speak 
 
 with our allies, our colleagues in the region, explain to them the situation. And that's what I am doing with many diplomats worldwide, 
 
 explaining them what the debate is about and agenda of the day, I think people should actually admire our democracy, which allows, you know, the 
 
 demonstrations and the strikes, it is part of a strong democracy.
 
ANDERSON: Danny Danon, it's good to have you on, sir. We really very much appreciate it as we await what is a reported speech by Benjamin Netanyahu 
 
 later today. No confirmation of that as of yet. Thank you. 
 
I want to bring in Hadas Gold tracking developments from Jerusalem. Kylie Atwood is at the State Department in Washington. And Hadas, you've been in 
 
 the middle of these protests all day. And you've been in the middle of these protests, let's be quite frank, for weeks and weeks and weeks now. 
 
 What did you make of what you just heard there? And describe, if you will, the atmosphere where you are?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, the atmosphere right now today is unlike something that I felt in the past 12 weeks or so of these 
 
 protests, especially in the last 24 hours. I mean, first overnight, the protests that we saw, the spontaneous protests after Prime Minister 
 
 Benjamin Netanyahu fired his defense minister for daring to give the speech speaking out against this judicial overhaul. They felt angrier than the 
 
 protests from the last 12 weeks or so. 
 
And then this morning was something historic. The general strike that was announced essentially brought Israel to a standstill. Becky, everything 
 
 from the ports, to the nurses, to the universities, even McDonald's went on strike, and the airport even at one point stops takeoff. Becky, the last 
 
 time the airport stopped operations like that, it was because of war. It was because of the conflict in 2021 between the Israeli military and Hamas 
 
 and militants in Gaza. Rockets were flying in the sky. That's what caused the airplanes to stop taking off. 
 
Now, it's because of this judicial overhaul. And that gives you the sense of where we've reached now in terms of how dramatic, how much of a 
 
 political, now economic and also security crisis this is for Israel. And as you noted, we have been expecting to hear from Benjamin Netanyahu since 
 
 this morning. There were so many reports. He was going to come out, he was going to announce a halt to the judicial reform process, but we still have 
 
 not heard from him other than a tweet calling on both sides to remain peaceful. 
 
And that's because what we are hearing from his government, from his ministers, is people like Itamar Ben-Gvir and Bezalel Smotrich calling on 
 
 their right-wing supporters to go out and to counter protests against these protests, telling that the -- telling them that this process should not be 
 
 halted. There is a big fear here, Becky, that there are parts of this movement, the right-wing fringe, who are known to be violent, who may be 
 
 coming out as night falls, and that there could be some violence on the ground and even some bloodshed. 
 <br>[10:15:11]
 
Remember, the Israeli President warned about this a few weeks ago, in that striking speech, saying that he was worried that there could become an 
 
 Israeli civil war, that there could be bloodshed as a result, and I have never felt us being closer to that point than today.
 
ANDERSON: And Benjamin Netanyahu warning of the same thing on Twitter just this morning. Let me bring in Kylie Atwood, because we've just heard from 
 
 Danny Danon there. Look, you know, frankly, I think he, you know, he's putting a certain gloss on the concerns that many have about Israel's 
 
 relations with not just Washington, but the part of the world where I am here in the U.A.E. in the Gulf. How much concern is there in Washington, 
 
 Kylie, over this crisis? 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, listen, U.S. officials are definitely not saying that they aren't concerned about this 
 
 reverberating into something bigger, or this hurting Israel's reputation abroad. What they are saying is that they have deep concerns about what is 
 
 happening right now, that is from the NSC Spokesperson yesterday, after the Prime Minister fired the Defense Minister, what they're doing is calling on 
 
 Israeli leaders to find a compromise as soon as possible. And very clearly stating that central to the U.S.-Israeli relationship are democratic 
 
 values. 
 
So, the message coming out of Washington is pretty clear right now. Another situation that we are watching is the fact that the Israeli embassy here in 
 
 Washington is closed today. And according to the spokesperson for the embassy, it's closed until further notice, that's because the diplomats are 
 
 U.S. -- I mean, excuse me, Israeli government employees. And so therefore, they are following the instructions of the largest union in the country 
 
 that has told its members, including these diplomats to go on strike. So, they are partaking in the strike. 
 
Now, whether or not we see those diplomats actually out in the streets, partaking in any, you know, global protests, like we are seeing happening 
 
 in Israel, that's something, of course, that we'll be watching for. But interestingly enough, the ambassador here in Washington, D.C., is staying 
 
 at home as well. According to the spokesperson, he is following the union's instructions. 
 
Now he is a political appointee. So, I don't believe that he is a part of that union, but he is demonstrating solidarity with the rest of the 
 
 diplomats at the embassy. So, that is pretty significant. And, of course, what we'll watch for today is what more U.S. officials say about this. And, 
 
 of course, the further reverberations that this has around the globe, you know, closing the embassy is one thing, but when this is shutting down 
 
 Israel's capability to engage in diplomacy around the world, that is a really significant thing.
 
ANDERSON: To both of you on a story that continues to develop, we thank you very much, indeed for joining us. 
 
And you can, folks, follow this story online, of course, as well, in our "Meanwhile in the Middle East" newsletter, that drops three times a week. 
 
 It's got the very latest from Israel, and indeed the other regional stories. You can use your phone to scan this QR code, or find it at cnn.com 
 
 on your computer and via the CNN app. Let's leave that up just for the time being.
 
Well, Ukraine's President thanks troops serving on the front lines as Russian attacks escalate in the south and east of the country. The very 
 
 latest from the ground just ahead for you. 
 
And German transport workers are refusing to work today. How a mega strike is impacting that country after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[10:21:02]
 
ANDERSON: "We will definitely win." That was the message from President Volodymyr Zelenskyy today to troops during a visit to the frontlines in 
 
 Ukraine's Zaporizhia region while he was there. Mr. Zelenskyy also met with the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency to discuss the safety of 
 
 the nuclear power plant there and its staff. 
 
Now, Monday has been a violent day across southern and eastern Ukraine, including an attack on Sloviansk that killed at least two people and left 
 
 dozens more injured. CNN's Senior International Correspondent Ivan Watson brings us the very latest from Ukraine's capital.
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It has been an active and violent day in Ukraine war, with a number of strikes and attacks 
 
 reportedly carried out in Russian-occupied Ukrainian cities in the south of the country. Some kind of strike in the center of the Russian-occupied town 
 
 of city of Melitopol, which hit a building there. We're still waiting to get details on potential casualties. 
 
And then what Russian state media has described as an assassination attempt in the Russian-occupied city of Mariupol people, apparently targeting the 
 
 car of the city's police chief. The Ukrainians would look at this individual as basically a collaborator for working with the Russian 
 
 occupation forces. We've seen images of a car damaged there. 
 
The Ukrainians are saying that there are resistance forces in these occupied towns, and that they argue there is nothing wrong with them 
 
 targeting the Russian occupation administration in these cities as they vow to liberate them sometime in the future. 
 
In the meantime, there have been very serious Russian missile strikes reported by the Ukrainian authorities against two eastern Ukrainian cities. 
 
 That is Sloviansk and a town called Druzhkivka. The Ukrainians say that Russians used S-300 missiles. These are supposed to be surface-to-air 
 
 missiles, but they've been repurposed to attack targets on the ground with huge impact. The Ukrainians are saying that the administrative center of 
 
 Sloviansk was hit. Serious damage to buildings there, at least two people killed, dozens reported wounded, and also in Druzhkivka as well, damage 
 
 incurred there. 
 
Meanwhile, the Flashpoint towns of Avdiivka and Bakhmut are also the scenes of intense fighting with authorities, and Avdiivka telling civilians to 
 
 evacuate and warning that utilities will be cut off as the Russians continue to press their offensive to try to capture that town. Ivan Watson, 
 
 CNN, Kyiv. 
 
ANDERSON: Well, buses, trains, planes, pretty much all public transport in Germany has ground to a halt today. The so-called mega strike has shut down 
 
 airports, train stations, and even some shipping ports. A spokesperson for the German railway system says that the strikes are hurting millions of 
 
 commuters. All the walkouts in Germany come one day ahead of another round of major strikes planned in France, and that is where CNN's Sam Kiley is 
 
 today, monitoring. What is, Sam, the worker unrest it seems across Europe, and that is a bit of an exaggeration but certainly France and in Germany. 
 
 We saw massive strikes in France last week. More plans tomorrow. Just explain what is going on at this point.
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, more broadly across Europe, and you're absolutely right, I don't think it's an 
 
 exaggeration. If you include Britain as part of the European continent, if not the E.U., it has also seen wave upon wave of strikes, particularly of 
 
 essential workers in the health service, schools, and so on. Now, the same thing has struck in France since January the 19th. And in Germany, too. 
 
 [10:25:02]
 
Now, broadly speaking, these are strikes against austerity in the government's efforts to deal with it. In the case of the French, it is, as 
 
 you know, Becky, over the plans, or the legislation now going ahead to raise the pensionable age from 62 to 64. That's a long-term budgetary issue 
 
 that the French government and Emmanuel Macron, the presidency, says has to be fixed because the French simply can't afford that pensionable 
 
 (INAUDIBLE) of the type that they've enjoyed here. 
 
The two in Britain and Germany, though, it's more old-fashioned wages falling behind in the view of the striking unions falling behind inflation. 
 
In Germany, the main union there is saying that they want 10 1/2 percent running at about 8.7. The offer is coming in at about 5 percent from most 
 
 employers as a consequence of this 24-hour strikes and 380,000 airline passengers affected, mostly unable to fly at all, paralysis of long 
 
 distance train journeys, commuter train journeys, very badly affected the port of Hamburg, almost entirely shut down. Very severe effect on Germany 
 
 in the short-term, how long it will last is the question, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Sam Kiley's in Paris for you, folks. Let's get you up to speed. Thank you, Sam. 
 
On some of the other stories that are on our radar right now, and at least six people have been killed by suicide bomb attack in Kabul in Afghanistan. 
 
 Taliban officials say the explosion happened near police checkpoints by the Foreign Ministry. At least 12 were reported wounded in that attack, 
 
 including a child. 
 
And more signs that the Saudi-Iran (INAUDIBLE) is going forward as planned. The country's foreign ministers have now agreed to meet during Ramadan and 
 
 they have spoken over the phone twice in less than a week. 
 
Kenyan police have fired tear gas at protesters after some of them threw stones at offices. This is the second week of demonstrations against the 
 
 government and high food prices. Most protesters are supporters of opposition leader, Raila Odinga, who has lost five elections in his bid to 
 
 become President. 
 
Well, next on CONNECT THE WORLD, we came to know this little fellow more than 20 years ago when he was at the center of a bitter international 
 
 custody battle. Well, now, he is about to take on a higher profile in Cuba. Who and why, up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[10:30:02]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. Here, the time is just before half past 6:00. 
 
Your headlines this hour, mass protests and strikes in Israel after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sacked the Defense Minister. Yoav Gallant 
 
 called for a halt in the right-wing government's controversial judicial overhaul plan. Meanwhile, the far right National Security Minister, Itamar 
 
 Ben-Gvir and the Finance Minister are urging supporters of the plan to stage their own protest. 
 
Well, airport's bus terminals and rail stations across Germany, the signs all read "canceled." Some 400,000 Transport Workers are staging a day of 
 
 strikes, demanding a pay raise to deal with rising food and energy costs. 
 
European banking shares moving higher on a deal that appears to be calming investor worries over the global banking crisis. First Citizens Bank, a 
 
 U.S. regional bank, buying the assets of a failed Silicon Valley Bank, and this comes as the U.S. Congress gears up for hearings this week on what led 
 
 to SVB's collapse. 
 
In JUST a few hours, Elian Gonzalez is expected to become a member of Cuba's National Assembly. It will be his first official role in the Cuban 
 
 government, and that's something his relatives in Miami feared more than two decades ago. Elian Gonzalez will be a familiar name in the United 
 
 States in 1999. He was found floating on a raft off the coast of Florida. His mother had died trying to get him to the U.S. and his relatives wanted 
 
 to honor her wishes when his father fought to get him back to Cuba and he was successful. That bitter custody case captivated not just both 
 
 countries, but people around the world. And if you're old enough, you may remember that case. 
 
Well, now, Gonzalez is an adult with a family of his own, and he is ready to make his mark. Patrick Oppmann joins me now from Havana. When will we 
 
 hear these results? 
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I think by the end of the days is typically what happens. They are counting the votes. There's not a lot of 
 
 suspense when it comes to Cuban elections. Though I should add, Elian Gonzalez, like all the other candidates, is running unopposed so it's 
 
 virtually assured that voters -- he needs more than 50 percent of voters to approve him, and that usually what happens. 
 
The United States, Becky, as you'd expect, calls these elections a farce. Cuba says because there's no money involved in elections, there's no 
 
 campaigning, and that it's a pure form of democracy. But certainly, by the end of the day, we expect that Elian Gonzalez, as you said, will be taking 
 
 this first step and having an official position after all these years in the Cuban government. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
OPPMANN (voice-over): Elian Gonzalez walks with his wife and their daughter in his hometown of Cardenas Cuba, preparing to step back into public view. 
 
 Gonzalez is here to vote for himself and the other candidates for Cuba's National Assembly. Candidates run unopposed so he's all but guaranteed to 
 
 win. It will be Gonzalez's first official role since the legal battle that brought him back to Cuba nearly 23 years ago. 
 
Early on in our interview, Gonzalez makes it clear the U.S. is still on his mind. "I'm someone the American people know and I can help bring the 
 
 American and Cuban people together. And not just the people," he says, "That our governments reach an understanding and remove all the barriers 
 
 between us. Our country doesn't have any sanctions on the U.S." 
 
Now that he's a father himself of a 2-year-old girl, Elian says he better understands the ordeal that his own father went through during the bitter 
 
 custody fight with his Miami relatives, as well as the pain of all Cuban families separated by political divisions. "It's helped me to understand my 
 
 father," he says. "It's made me more sensitive. It's helped me understand how all the Cubans feel who were separated from their families, and fathers 
 
 who aren't able to give all the attention and things their children want." 
 
By joining the 470-member National Assembly, Gonzalez can become a high profile spokesman for the government, something his Miami relatives said 
 
 they were afraid would happen if he was returned to the island. 
 
Despite being one of the most famous people on this island, Elian Gonzalez says he's led a pretty low key life since returning to Cuba. Now that he's 
 
 going to become a member of the Cuba's National Assembly though, he'll be returning into the public spotlight and no doubt using his celebrity to 
 
 defend the revolution that brought him home. 
 
Even as he is an unabashed supporter of Castro's revolution, Gonzalez also strikes a conciliatory tone rarely heard on either side of the Florida 
 
 straits. 
 <br>[10:35:01]
 
"Cuban exiles, what we want one day, is that they are no longer exiled, that they come home, that everyone understands that all the youth that is 
 
 left, that when they're willing to work for Cuba, the well-being of Cubans beyond a political party and ideologies," he says, "That our doors are open 
 
 to build a better country, which is what we need." It is a hopeful sentiment of someone uniquely connected to both Cuba and the U.S., and 
 
 Gonzalez may prove to be instrumental in uniting Cubans and rebuilding the island, even if he has a long road ahead of him. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
OPPMANN (on camera): And Gonzalez is taking on this new public role, Becky, as we are seeing, like he mentioned a record number of young Cubans leaving 
 
 this island, and also not taking part in the political process, not going to vote. And so that is of concern to Cuban officials. Certainly, they are 
 
 hoping that Elian Gonzalez will be able to engage young Cubans in a way that perhaps the older generation does not.
 
ANDERSON: Oh, man, in Havana, thank you. 
 
Well, up next on CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson, one of the biggest jobs in professional football is open again. Why the Tottenham 
 
 Hotspur team need a new manager is after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
ANDERSON: Across the globe, climate change increasing the risk of heavy rain and flooding that is putting more people's homes and lives at risk. In 
 
 our new series, "Growing Bangladesh" CNN meets an architect in Dhaka, who has designed a unique solution for mobile homes made with bamboo. Kristie 
 
 Lu Stout has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In Dhaka, the shape of the city is changing by the second. Award-winning architect Marina Tabassum hasn't just 
 
 been watching it grow, she's been helping to build it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MARINA TABASSUM, FOUNDER, MARINA TABASSUM ARCHITECTS: I really love designing public projects, especially, you know, in places where people 
 
 would gather.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
STOUT: Tabassum designed, the Bait Ur Rouf Mosque, which won the Aga Khan award in 2016. It is both a place of worship and a community hall.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TABASSUM: Bait Ur Rouf Mosque has a special place in my heart. I was the architect, the fundraiser, the builder, all in one. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
STOUT: She also designed the Museum of Independence Monument, a gathering place for many in a capital short on public space.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TABASSUM: A city, and its health, is actually defined by how good your public spaces are.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 <br>[10:40:01]
 
STOUT: Her latest project is called Khudi Bari. These temporary homes and public spaces respond to one of Bangladesh's biggest threats, climate 
 
 change. Along Bangladesh is river deltas erosion is common, and as the sandbanks shift, so do the people.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TABASSUM: A lot of people lose their land, a lot of towns have vanished to the water. We decided to focus on this idea that can we create a structure 
 
 that could be lightweight could be assembled and disassembled like a flat pack system, and people could carry that with them when they move from one 
 
 location to another location.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
STOUT: The folding structure is made from bamboo which is, light, cheap, durable and locally available through her nonprofit foundation, NTA is 
 
 building 100 of these Khudi Bari in different locations across Bangladesh.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TABASSUM: The uniqueness of Khudi Bari is that it has two levels. So when there is flooding, you can move your family and your belongings to the 
 
 upper level so that you can save yourself. (END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
STOUT: As for the future, Tabassum is optimistic about her home country and wants to make sure everyone from city dwellers to coastal communities has a 
 
 roof over their head.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TABASSUM: Everybody has the right to good architecture
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANDERSON: Tottenham in fourth place, that is of course near the top of the English Premier League table. But on Sunday night, the club parted ways 
 
 with its manager and to contest, departure was the 11th managerial change this season in that Premier League and that, Amanda Davies, is a record you 
 
 have more I'm sure to wind me up on the loss of the manager or the code at the team that I support. Pray tell. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. I mean, Becky, you had to wonder how on earth there was a way back for Antonio Conte after that incredible post-
 
 match news conference two weekends ago after spurs lost that lead and, in the end, just salvaged a point from that game against Southampton. And in 
 
 short, there wasn't a way back. 
 
We'd been expecting it all of last week but under cover of an international break, Sunday night, late, late after the newspapers had already been 
 
 published, Spurs finally made their announcement, putting out the announcement basically saying that Conte had parted ways with them by 
 
 mutual consent, but the question is where do they go from here? 
 
There's 10 games. They want to qualify for the Champions League next season, but that is going to be tough, but will have a huge impact on 
 
 players staying or going, the likes of Harry Kane, and also the type of manager who will come in. There's no signs that Daniel Levy is going to 
 
 change his strategy anytime soon, is there? So we've got plenty to talk about and, yes, as you would expect, it is coming after just a couple of 
 
 minutes on World Sport. 
 
ANDERSON: Thomas Tuchel was my favorite, but before they came to him, he ran away to Bayern Munich, of course, to get out of the way. So there you 
 
 go. Spurs are without a coach. And I will be listening to "WORLD SPORT". That comes after this short break. I'm back top of the hour for you, folks. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END