Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Debt Ceiling Negotiator Race To Reach Deal Before June 5 Deadline; AAA Estimates Record Number Of Travelers For Memorial Day Weekend; Reports Of Explosions In Two Russian-Occupied Cities; NYC Officials Spotlight Strain Of Migrants On City's Economy; Celtics Go For Third Straight Win To Force Game 7 On Miami Heat; Storms, Flooding, Hazardous Conditions Expected On East Coast. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired May 27, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:51] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Saturday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
All right. We begin this hour in Washington where right now negotiators are back at the table as they race to end the debt ceiling standoff. Republican leaders and White House officials returning a short time ago, after a marathon session lasted well into the night. The clock is ticking, to get a deal in place before the U.S. defaults on its loans. 
 
The national deficit continues to soar where with no rise to the borrowing limit, the U.S. will default on its loans which could be catastrophic to the economy. 
 
The Treasury Secretary now saying the deadline for an agreement is just eight days away. But talks are teetering on the brink with at least one top Republican negotiator warning that a deal could come together as soon as today or fall apart entirely. 
 
CNN's Alayna Treene and Jasmine Wright are following the latest. Good morning to both of you. 
 
Alayna, you first, you're on Capitol Hill and just spoke to the House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. What did he say? Is he optimistic? 
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: He is. He told us that he is more confident now about where things stand in these negotiations than he has ever been before saying because he sees progress. 
 
So he entered the Capitol just before 10:30 a.m. And he told reporters that he feels like talks are closing in and they're getting closer to a deal. 
 
Now, I am told through my reporting and from sources I've been talking to over the weekend that they want to have a deal in place tonight. McCarthy said that he thinks the earliest they could have a vote is on Tuesday, and he also said that he wanted give members of congress at least 72 hours to go over the bill text and see what is in this bill. 
 
So that means that if they want to have a vote as early as Tuesday, that they have to have a deal in place today. Now, he also said that they are working on a few remaining sticking points. He wouldn't say what those were, we know that they are centered on work requirements and spending cuts but they do think that they're closing in here.
 
And we also caught up with some key Republican negotiators this morning like Congressman Patrick McHenry. He said that really it's about getting an agreement on the agreement. Now, they've narrowed the issues that are at stake here, that there are sticking points that they're trying to hash out. But they do feel confident they are closing in on a deal at this point, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: Ok. We like the optimism. 
 
How about from the White House point of view, Jasmine? What is the Biden administration saying? We know the president said he's going to be at Camp David all weekend long and he can, you know, be keyed in. Any optimism coming from the White House or Camp David? 
 
JASMINE WRIGHT, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, Fred. 
 
Look, White House negotiators are up this morning, working by phone and virtually, a source tells me, and that President Biden is being regularly updated, as he spends his week at Camp David. 
 
But there is a lot of optimism coming from the White House. We heard it from the president himself yesterday when he left the White House, heading to Camp David. He said that he felt that a deal was close and he would know at midnight last night if it was possible. But he said that he was very optimistic about the chances. 
 
Now, of course, as Alayna alluded to, just having a deal in place though it is very important, it is not going to be the end of their struggles. It is going to be incumbent upon Democrats and Republicans to whip up support from both sides of the aisle, to get a majority of members in Congress to vote for this bill, and put it on President Biden's desk before June 5th, that new updated x date deadline that Treasury Secretary -- Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen announced yesterday, really pushing that time line, giving negotiators a little bit of wiggle room but not that much. 
 
Now, as Alayna said, work requirements remain a sticking point in the negotiators conversations and we know that that has kind of put Democrats at an unease. They have voiced and signaled the fact that they feel like they may be put in a bad position come election year, next year, depending on what deals President Biden and Republicans are really cutting when it comes to this negotiation. 
 
Still, President Biden asked yesterday whether or not -- really was asked about his reaction to the Democrats saying that he shouldn't cave in. Take a listen. 
 <br>[11:04:59]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, what do you tell Democrats who say that they don't want you to bow on the work requirements? What's your position? 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I don't bow to anybody. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WRIGHT: So there goes President Biden a little bit of cheekiness but ultimately optimistic. Now, the White House has been really firm in saying that they have been in contact with Democratic leaders, really as they try to continue these negotiations, saying that they will put Democrats' proposals and their needs inside of this deal. 
 
But of course, time is ticking here and it is not on Republican or Democrat side, for them to come to a deal, and then try to pass it to hit President Biden's desk before June 5th, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. And Jasmine, while you were talking, we now have even newer sound of House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. This is what he had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA), SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: I feel closer to an agreement now than I did a long time before because I see progress. But listen, this is not easy in any shape or form. But that doesn't back us away from it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Alayna Treene, more admission there. It's not easy, but again, he is underscoring some optimism. 
 
TREENE: Right, Fred. And I will say that I asked him when he was here, I said do you think you will be able to get the majority of your conference behind this bill. And he said yes, I do not think that will be a problem. 
 
And so that really is the key thing here because even when they have a deal, the main thing that will be after that, is to sell it to both their members and both the Democrats and Republicans in the House, as well as both parties in the Senate. And that is a huge feat that they still need to overcome. 
 
But McCarthy is saying that he thinks he can get his members behind this, and that they will be able to, once they come to a deal, sell them on this and pass it through Congress, and they need to do that by June 5th. 
 
That is the deadline that Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said, if they do not have a firm deal in place, and pass through Congress by then, the government will default on its debt. 
 
WHITFIELD: And most members have gone home for the holiday weekend. But we hear from Kevin McCarthy, he wants it done soon, so that when they do get back, everyone can read in and then start the process of voting on it and weighing in well ahead of that deadline. 
 
All right. Alayna Treene, Jasmine Wright -- thanks to both of you. Appreciate it. 
 
All right. Let's bring in now a Eleanor Mueller. She is a congressional reporter for "Politico" and Mica Soellner, who's a congressional reporter for "Punchbowl News". Good to see both of you.
 
So Eleanor, you first. President Biden expressing optimistic. You just heard from Kevin McCarthy who also admitting it is hard work but he is optimistic. Should everyone else feel the same way? 
 
ELEANOR MUELLER, CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER, "POLITICO": Yes. I mean we're hearing that we could have text as soon as, you know, this afternoon and because McCarthy has said that he wants to give his members 72 hours to look over whatever they put together, that could put this on time for a floor vote, you know, as early as perhaps around Tuesday. 
 
We just found out from Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen last night that in fact the day that we run out of money is going to be June 5th, not June 1st, so that puts us on schedule. I mean it is a tight schedule but it is on schedule. 
 
WHITFIELD: And so Mika, I mean is that the sense that you're getting from lawmakers that you've been talking to, aides as well, on Capitol Hill, that there is this sense of optimism that they're going to be able to get this done in time? 
 
MICA SOELLNER, CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER, "PUNCHBOWL NEWS": Yes, absolutely. I mean we are seeing a lot more positivity here in the last couple of days, even from last night on to today, than it was earlier in this week, when Speaker McCarthy and the White House it seems like were still kind of both on the consensus that they weren't even close. 
 
So now, we're seeing a lot more positivity, optimistic, and it looks like a deal could get done as soon as today. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So Eleanor, what is behind this kind of last- minute thing? I mean we've heard the White House emphasize they had an offer back in March, Republicans on the Hill said they had one, too. So why are we now down to eight days final countdown? 
 
MUELLER: That is a million-dollar question. And I think it comes down to a couple of different things. You know, McHenry who is McCarthy's number two, he's been taking the lead in a lot of these conversations. 
 
He says repeatedly that it is because what outstanding (ph) are the most difficult things to negotiate, you know, spending levels, and it is work requirements, primarily for social safety net programs like temporary assistance for needy families, food stamps, things like that. These are all, you know, things that Republicans have basically said that they have to have those work requirements. And things that Democrats have said are a red line. You know, we heard
 
 a lot of that, Mica and I were at the same House Democratic caucus meeting on Thursday. Lots and lots of, you know, kind of bemoaning by Democrats that they might have to eventually vote for a deal that could include something like that when they didn't negotiate it. You know, they're saying they didn't manufacture this crisis. 
 
So I think that's what's taken so long. I mean it's a lot of -- it's a lot of high intensity things that are on the table at this point. 
 
WHITFIELD: And so Mica, you know, in these negotiations, you know, not everyone is going to get everything they want. Someone is going to have to give in. 
 <br>[11:09:54]
 
WHITFIELD: The White House has made it very clear that it really did not want to give in to the social safety net programs, you know, that Eleanor just kind of spelled out. 
 
And at the same time, you know, there are some Republicans who say there's got to be some cutting here and there. So in the end, will it be an issue of both sides have to compromise on something? Or are these things, these social safety net programs, largely going to be protected? 
 
SOELLNER: That's a great question. And that's one that, you know, we're all looking out for. As you mentioned, you know, the work requirements are probably the major sticking point. 
 
I mean the White House last night defended, kind of attacked Republicans on them wanting to, you know, cut that, and get rid of some of the programming there. But you know, Republicans also are really adamant on making sure that, you know, those are more stringent. 
 
You know, right now, I do think both sides are going to have to compromise a little bit and not everybody is going to be happy, especially with how ideologically diverse this Congress is, and the narrow majority Speaker McCarthy has. 
 
I mean I just asked him in this latest gaggle if he thinks that conservatives are going to be even more upset with him, with the extended deadline, as they have more time. And he says he is not concerned, but he knows that not everybody is probably going to get behind him, you know, 100 percent. 
 
WHITFIELD: And so Eleanor, since each side will have to give in a little bit here and there, who will ultimately declare itself a winner, particularly if each side gives in a little bit, but then the deadlines are met and the economy overall, you know, remains stabilized, as a result? 
 
MUELLER: It's tough. Because you know, both McCarthy and Biden are going to have to go back to their parties and sell it as a win for them. you know, McCarthy is going to go to Republicans and sell this as hey, we got the spending cuts we wanted. Biden is going to go to the Democrats say, hey, we knew we were going to have to have some cuts. This in the grand scheme of things isn't not so bad. 
 
So whether or not there is a clear agreed-upon winner I think remains to be seen. I think we do know that, you know, there are overall, I think overall, we're kind of all losers in this situation. 
 
You know, getting this close to defaulting on the national debt is a really, really bad for our economy. It's kind of hard to overstate and I think we'll see the effects at this point, even if we do reach a deal as soon as today. 
 
WHITFIELD: And so yes, Mica, I mean the most important thing here is the U.S. economy, right? And you know, the global economy, as a result. 
 
But when you talk about what is really at stake, a lot is at stake for Speaker McCarthy. And this will demonstrate what kind of leadership role he has or does not have over his caucus. How much is at stake for him in your view? 
 
SOELLNER: Yes, I mean this is a huge test for Speaker McCarthy who is no stranger to large tests in this Congress that's only about five months in. Obviously we saw that with his speakership in general, taking 15 rounds to get the gavel. 
 
But I mean House Freedom Caucus sent him a letter just5 two days ago saying that they were, you know, not very happy with the direction of where these negotiations were going, that they wanted more. 
 
And he is in a very tough position with the (INAUDIBLE) majority to have to please everybody, and then if he gives them too much, then moderates are upset. So he is in a tough position but it looks like right now, he is very positive at the moment. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Mica Soellner, Eleanor Mueller -- good to see you both. Thank you so much. 
 
SOELLNER: Thanks for having us. 
 
WHITFIELD: Absolutely.
 
All right. Coming up, it's the unofficial start of summer and millions of Americans are getting away for the holiday weekend. We will tell you what to expect at the airports and on the roads. 
 
Plus, a new rallying cry today from the head of Ukraine's armed forces. We're live in Ukraine straight ahead. 
 <br>[11:13:49]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. If you're thinking about hitting the road this Memorial Day weekend, be prepared. AAA expects more than 42 million Americans to travel 50 miles or more this weekend. Travelers are packing their bags in record numbers with TSA expecting to screen 10 million passengers between Thursday and Monday at the airports. Friday alone saw the highest checkpoint volume in the last three and a half years with an estimated 2.7 million flyers. 
 
And it's not just the airports, but also roadways seeing more travelers. More than 37 million people are expected to hit the roads this weekend. That's up 6 percent from a year ago according to AAA. 
 
And we're following conditions on the roads and in the skies with CNN's Isabel Rosales in Atlanta and CNN's Mike Valerio in Los Angeles where things are moving right now on the 405 but, you know, it is early there. 
 
Isabel, I see a few people behind you. I was traveling in and out of the world's busiest airport, which is where you are earlier this week. And let me just say, it was congested, it was packed, it was tough. So how is it today? 
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred. It's great news right now for anyone still making their way to the airport to head to their final destination for Memorial Day weekend. You can see here barely any people. 
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. 
 
ROSALES: Plenty of open space right here between the roped-off area of the main security checkpoint. So you know, Fred, you know this airport, this is not even TSA freak time. So this is usually -- 
 
WHITFIELD: I haven't seen it like that. Not when I go through.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ROSALES: -- packed. Completely packed.
 
Oh yes, we never see it that way. But this morning, unfortunately, it was packed with lines going all the way out beyond even this checkpoint, well into the atrium. So people were having to wait quite a bit of time to go through the security checkpoint. 
 
And Fred, we've actually gotten new information from the TSA about yesterday, which they were expecting to be the busiest day out of this entire holiday weekend. 
 <br>[11:19:54]
 
ROSALES: And in fact, they screened here at Hartsfield-Jackson over 98,000 people yesterday, marking the third busiest day ever for security checkpoints at this airport. And then Thursday was nearly as busy with 95,000 people screened. Now TSA expects here at Hartsfield- Jackson to screen 2 million people by the end of this holiday weekend. 
 
I spoke earlier today with some travelers who were a bit frustrated with getting to their destination. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOSH DELGADO, FLYING TO RIVERSIDE, CA: I did. That's why I got here four hours early and it took me an hour and a half, almost two hours to get from the (INAUDIBLE) center to here. We will see if I make my flight. 
 
ROSALDES: When's your flight? 
 
DELGADO: I think 40 minutes. Yes. 
 
ROSALES: Oh boy. Any piece of advice for people traveling? 
 
DELGADO: Get here even earlier. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: And Fred, I actually saw him on the way here and I checked with him again, and saw him and I am like I guess you missed your flight. He's like, yes, it didn't work out for me. I missed my flight. 
 
By the way, Fred, we've also checked in with some experts who are cautiously optimistic about the summer travel season citing 48,000 new employees hired by airlines, and also airlines using larger planes to meet that higher demand. 
 
So we'll have to see how this summer pans out. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, something told me, just the way he was walking and talking with you, it looked like he had resigned to, you know what, I'm going to miss this flight and in the end, yes he did. Sorry, Josh. 
 
ROSALES: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Mike, from your vantage point there on the 405 in Los Angeles, right now things are moving behind you. What are people anticipating as they hit the roads there? 
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, if they're out this hour, Fred, it is just like a dream as you can see in our backdrop right here. But we're not sure how long that is going to last. It's going to probably turn into a nightmare. It is still early here. People are sleeping in. 
 
But as we zoom in, looking at the 405 and people who are either heading to Santa Monica, heading to the beach, or going to the San Fernando Valley in front of us, you see California Highway Patrol already out in force, pulling over their first driver of the morning here along Sepulveda Boulevard. 
 
WHITFIELD: What a drag.
 
VALERIO: And also Fred, we spoke with AAA and they say that in short the Memorial Day road trip is back, but not quite back to pre-pandemic levels. 
 
So this is the story. We looked at the numbers, and in short, we're expecting just over 37 million drivers to hit the road for the Memorial Day weekend. But before the pandemic, 2019, it was approaching 38 million drivers, so we are not quite back to the before times. 
 
But when we were checking in with AAA, talking about the numbers, they gave us some travel tips for people who are watching us here on CNN this morning, and are about to hit the roads. Listen to what they told us. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DOUG SHUBE, AAA SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: Definitely inspect that vehicle before you take that long road trip. Check your tire tread and inflation. Make sure your battery has a good charge. Make sure your fluid levels are topped off. 
 
During this Memorial Day weekend, AAA anticipates coming to the road side rescue of more than 460,000 stranded drivers. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VALERIO: So that is my nightmare. A flat tire, or low tire pressure here on the 405. We got to talk about gas prices though, too. They are still elevated in historical terms. But they have come down from where they were. 
 
Last year, we had gas prices above $4. We checked in with the national average, it is sitting around $3.60 this morning. 
 
But if you are here in California, if you're in Alaska, New Jersey, New York, Florida -- those are the states where gas prices have come down the most, around $1.30 in all of those states from where we were this time last year. 
 
Finally, we spoke with our friends from Gas Buddy and they say good news for the rest of the summer travel season. If you're heading out, the likelihood for the national average of gas prices going above $4, that likelihood is diminishing by the day because of where inflation is headed. So that is certainly good news, if you have to fill up your tank for your first road trip of summer 2023, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Just getting started. All right. Thanks to both of you. Appreciate it. Isabel Rosales, Mike Valerio -- appreciate that.
 
All right. I'm joined now by Clint Henderson, the managing editor of The Points Guy for more insight on travel this holiday weekend. Clint, so good to see you. 
 
CLINT HENDERSON, MANAGING EDITOR, THE POINTS GUY: Good to see you. Thanks for having me.
 
WHITFIELD: So we see the airports are jammed, the highways are about to get jammed. Is this kind of a microcosm, this Memorial Day weekend, a microcosm of what summer travel is going to be like for everybody? 
 
HENDERSON: Yes, pack your patience and get to the airport early this summer. The good news is that I'm seeing all green arrows across the board, so hopefully this is a good sign for the summer to come of travel. I'm just still a little worried that if there's any weather event, that could lead to a domino effect. 
 <br>[11:24:56]
 
HENDERSON: So watching carefully, watching air traffic control, they still don't have enough staff. But if this is a sign of the summer to come, then we're very happy at this point in time. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh my -- well, you're right. The weather is always kind of the number one, you know, thing to impact travel, and you know, people getting from point a to point b. 
 
So just given the fact that so many more people are traveling, whether it be by air or road, what's your preference and what's your recommendation for people? You know, are they going to fair better if they hit the road? Or do they just go ahead and be in there at the airports with all of the crowds? I mean it's packed these days. 
 
HENDERSON: It really is, and I think either way, you're going to hit crowds and traffic, but it's really about price this summer. Prices are extraordinarily high for air fare across the board. Like for just one example, don't try to go to Las Vegas, sometimes fares as high as $800 and $2,000 for coach. I'm seeing similar prices to Rome from New York, so it is extraordinarily expensive. 
 
With gas prices now down about a buck on average, a road trip makes a lot more sense. It also would keep you from the crowds at the airport. Though at The Points Guy we have a ton of hacks to get you around those crowds including clear and pre-check. So you know, there are ways to avoid the crowds. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So we have something like the national average gas price, you know, is at $4.60 right now. Does this mean to you that people -- oh, no, that was, that was a year ago, $4.60 and now it is $3.58. So does this say to you, that people are more likely to take those short road trips? Or are they going to go long? Especially with those high air prices? 
 
HENDERSON: So it is, I think there is room for both. I think you're definitely going to see more people hitting the roads this summer than you have in seasons past. 
 
Although I will say during the pandemic, a lot of people were doing national park trips and gas prices were low then, too. So moderate, still a lot of crowds going to hit the road this summer.
 
But people really want to travel internationally. Everything is open again and everyone is saving up their bucket list trips and they really want to go right now. So that's why you're seeing air fares so high internationally. Air fares have come down slightly in the U.S., so that's good news, too. 
 
So pick your poison -- either way, it's going to be crowded. 
 
WHITFIELD: So any recommendations or advice on if you are trying to travel internationally, and you said, you know, the prices of air are going to be really high. What are the best ways to kind of get the best deals, a certain day of the week that you need to book, or do you need to be mindful of certain destinations, and perhaps rent a car as well and then expect to drive a bit? 
 
HENDERSON: Yes, so what I would say to folks is if you are adventurous, there are still a ton of deals to be had traveling internationally to places where the U.S. dollar is strong. Whether that is Southeast Asia, Thailand, Indonesia, or Central or South America, places like Colombia, your dollar is going to go really far, air prices are not too high for those destinations. And hotels are really cheap. 
 
So five star hotel in Colombia for $200 a night. I will say if you're going to the capitals of Europe -- Rome, Paris, London, you're going to pay a little more, but the entry of low cost carriers has driven prices down, so we are publishing deal alerts at The Points Guy every single day, sometimes coach fares to Europe as low as $500. The problem is finding a hotel that's cheap enough for your budget. 
 
So there are tricks out there. You just got to do your research. Set those Google flight alerts and go to sites like The Points Guy. 
 
WHITFIELD: All very helpful. I like that you are helping folks know where the tricks out there are. 
 
HENDERSON: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: Clint Henderson, thank you so much, The Points Guy. Appreciate it. 
 
HENDERSON: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead, allies are calling it a war crime. We'll have the latest on a Russian strike on a medical facility in Ukraine next. 
 <br>[11:28:55]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: In Ukraine today, a rallying cry. 
 
It's a motivational clip, and it was posted on social media by the head of Ukraine's armed forces. It's intensifying speculation about a major counter-offensive by Ukraine. 
 
There are also reports today of explosions in the Russian-occupied cities of Mariupol and Berdyansk. That's the same port city where earlier in the week Ukraine says it sank a Russian warship. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen is in the capital of Kyiv. So Fred, what more can you tell us about these reports of explosions? 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Fredricka. Yes, first of all, certainly a lot of speculation about what this could mean about a possible looming counter-offensive that the Ukrainians have said is coming but they certainly haven't said when it could be coming. 
 
That video certainly fueling a lot of those speculations but really unclear whether or not that counter-offensive is in the works, is going on, and whether or not these explosions that we're hearing about in those two key port cities on the Sea of Azov have anything to do with a looming counter-offensive or it might be shaping operations. 
 
But you're absolutely right, Fredricka. They center around those two port cities, Berdyansk being one of the main war ports that the Russians are using in occupied Ukrainian land. And then also Mariupol as well, which right now, is one of the main staging areas that the Russians have in the occupied Ukrainian territories. 
 
The latest that we're hearing is that there were three explosions that were heard in Mariupol today. The Russians are saying over the past 24 hours, that they have taken down 12 drones and missiles shot by the Ukrainians. 
 <br>[11:34:54]
 
PLEITGEN: They claim that among them were two Storm Shadow cruise missiles which, of course, were supplied by the Brits, and they say the Ukrainians have already been using. 
 
Impossible to independently verify that but it certainly seems to us observing all of this from the ground here in Kyiv, that there is a distinct uptick in these hits, especially in Berdyansk and Mariupol, not just today but in the past couple of days as well. 
 
For instance, there were explosions that we have heard of in Mariupol late last night, and also during the week in Berdyansk, as well, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: And then Russian strikes on a psychiatric hospital in Dnipro this week, I mean that killed two people and injured more than 30. What are the recovery efforts like? 
 
PLEITGEN: well, the recovery efforts at this point in time are pretty much finished. You see some of the recovery crews, it is basically a cleanup operation now and it certainly was a horrific incident that took place there. 
 
And you're absolutely right. Two people were killed. Dozens of people were wounded. And a lot of them had to be brought to other hospitals there as well. Psychiatric hospital, also a veterinary clinic there as well. 
 
And what the Ukrainians are saying is that the Russians apparently used missiles, S-300 and S-400 missiles for these strikes. Now those are missiles that are normally used to try and take down aircraft, and if you use those missiles in a ground to ground configuration, they become extremely inaccurate. And of course, if you shoot extremely inaccurate very powerful missiles into an urban area, there is the big potential of severe human carnage. 
 
And that seems to be exactly what has happened there in Dnipro and some of the video that we got in the early stages after those hits took place, was really horrifying, with people trying to save themselves, from that destroyed building. Much of that building then afterwards burned down, as those rescue crews tried to save as many people as possible. 
 
And then, of course, tried to put out that fire as well. That incident has been condemned by the Ukrainian leadership but also from countries around the world as well, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Fred Pleitgen, thank you so much there in Kyiv. We will check back with you. 
 
All right. Coming up, New York City is pleading for federal help, as an influx of migrants is putting a major strain on the city's economy. What officials are asking for next. 
 <br>[11:37:05]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back. 
 
New York City officials are highlighting the stark financial strain the migrant crisis is putting on the city's economy. They estimate the city will spend more than $4 billion on asylum seeker care by next July. 
 
Right now, more than 44,000 migrants are in the city's care, about 77,000 have passed through intake facilities. 
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval is following the story for us. 
 
Polo, so New York's governor and the city's mayor are pleading for federal help? 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And Fred, considering those numbers that you just shared with our viewers, one of the top city officials sent us this week, that they say there is no end in sight when it comes to the migrant crisis here in New York City in terms of the number of asylum seekers arriving here. 
 
That is despite what we see are, in this case, don't see, along the southern border. Now, what we do know is that the city currently is not only scouring city and state areas for potential housing options for some of these asylum seekers but also they're taking an unprecedented legal step in terms of petitioning a judge to allow them the ability to suspend its long-standing right to shelter law here in New York City, which essentially requires that the city provide housing to those who need it, be it homeless individuals or in several cases recently, asylum seekers. 
 
The city in response to criticism is saying that they are not looking to shut the door on anybody that may turn to the city for housing, but they simply want to plan a step ahead in case things continue to get worse. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRENDAN MCGUIRE, CHIEF COUNSEL TO NEW YORK MAYOR ERIC ADAMS: It's to have that flexibility. Do we want to necessarily exercise that in every case, in every way, whatever it may be? Not necessarily. So it's an effort to be responsible here to secure some flexibility now. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANDOVAL: The mayor's chief counsel that you just heard from there, in his remarks just a couple of days ago responding to that criticism, some of which includes that they believe including some migrant advocates that I've heard from Fred, they believe that by taking this step, that the city is trying to basically skirt around -- skirt around its legal responsibility to provide housing. However the city responding and saying that if they are able to successfully secure this order from the judge, that it is not going to affect families with children, and saying that this is -- they are doing this in response to an unprecedented demand in housing saying when this came to be, decades ago, back in the early 80s, that they were not, the city was not responding to this level of demand.
 
So it certainly just speaks to a state of play right now and the situation on the ground here in New York City, as we continue to see these asylum seekers arrive. Many of them coming on their own, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval in New York, thanks so much. 
 
SANDOVAL: You bet. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coming up, it is win or go home again for the Boston Celtics. They're hoping to become the fourth NBA team ever to force a game seven in the play offs after being down three games to none. A preview of their incredible pursuit straight ahead. 
 <br>[11:44:08]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. In the NBA playoffs, it's win or go home, once again for the Boston Celtics as they take on the Miami Heat tonight. 
 
CNN's Andy Scholes has more in sports. 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fredricka, no NBA team has been able to come all the way back from down 3-0 in the playoffs to win a series. They are 0-150 all time and the Celtics are halfway to making some history. 
 
Boston already just the 15th team to force a game six after being down 0-3. They're actually two and a half point favorites tonight in Miami against the Heat. And if they can win tonight, they will be just the fourth team to ever push it to a game seven after losing the first three games. 
 
And if they win and get to a game seven, I mean they'd certainly be heavy favorites at home. So the pressure tonight, it is really on Miami, but the Heat are playing it cool. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BAM ADEBAYO, MIAMI HEAT: Why would we lose confidence? When you start this journey, nobody believed in us. Everybody thought we were going to be out the first round. Everybody thought we were going to be out the second round. And now we're just5 one game away. 
 
So for us, man, we've always had confidence and that's not going to go away. 
 
JAYSON TATUM, BOSTON CELTICS: Being down 3-0, you understand how that's never been done, you know, all of the talk about that, and it kind of gave us a sense of just like, you know, everybody is counting us out. We're not supposed to win. We're supposed to be done and I think we started to play a little bit more free, relaxed. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
SCHOLES: And Celtics' case for history continues tonight on TNT, tipoff is at 8:30 Eastern.
 
The Dallas Stars meanwhile also trying to climb that steep hill against the Golden Knights. They're down 3-1 after avoiding a sweep, and forcing a game five tonight in Vegas. 
 
But coming back from a 3-0 hole, it is possible in hockey. Four NHL teams have been able to do it, two of them has happened in the past dozen post seasons. The Flyers did it in 2010, LA Kings in 2014 but it has never happened in the conference finals.
 
All right. In baseball, we had a terrifying moment in Milwaukee last night as Brian Anderson hit a screaming foul ball toward the Brewers' dugout and hit his teammate Willy Adames on the side of his head. Adames immediately sat down. Manager Craig Counsell said he was alert and responsive and was taken to the hospital. Counsell said that tests revealed no fractures but Adames would remain in the hospital overnight for monitoring purposes and would then be placed on the injured list. 
 
But Fredricka, you see that foul ball, especially that side angle -- what a scary situation that was. Adames lucky because that could have been much, much worse. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh yes. That was tough. That's a tough hit. 
 
All right. Thank you so much, Andy Scholes.
 
All right. Still ahead, millions of people are getting away for the Memorial Day weekend and starting their beach season but the weather may not cooperate in some areas. The forecast, next. 
 
But first, the 2010s was one of the most consequential decades in recent history with political, social and technological upheaval that redefined American culture. 
 
This week the "CNN ORIGINAL SERIES: THE 2010S" is back with an all-new episode examining Donald Trump's meteoric rise to the presidency in 2016 and the polarizing legacy he left behind. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Donald Trump wins the South Carolina Republican presidential primary -- a very, very impressive win for him. 
 
DAVID REMNICK, EDITOR, THE NEW YORKER: I took him seriously pretty soon. When he started wiping out one Republican contender after another and he did it because of what seemed to be abnormal in politics -- the way he spoke, the insults. I mean he's like an insult comic. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Rubio -- you know, I call him -- all right. I'll tell you. I call him Little Marco, Little Marco. 
 
TIM NAFTALI, CNN PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN: He assigned them high school- like nicknames. 
 
TRUMP: Lying Ted. He's a liar. 
 
REMNICK: People were eating it up and nobody knew how to respond. And when they did respond, they were, quote, "going down to his level". 
 
JEB BUSH, FORMER FLORIDA GOVERNOR: Donald Trump is a jerk. You cannot insult your way to the presidency. 
 
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO (R-FL): You know what they say about men with small hands. You can't trust them. You can't trust them.
 
REMNICK: Then the next thing you knew, they were gone. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Oh my goodness. Oh yes, going back down memory lane. Be sure to tune in to an all new episode of the "CNN ORIGINAL SERIES: THE 2010S", airs tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Eastern, (INAUDIBLE) only on CNN. 
 
We'll be right back.
 <br>[11:52:56]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. More than 37 million people are expected to hit the roads this weekend to celebrate Memorial Day. But travelers on the East Coast could be hit with heavy rainfall, flash flooding and hazardous beach and boating conditions. 
 
CNN meteorologist Britley Ritz joining me now from the CNN Weather Center. So Britley, what are we looking at this weekend? BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: We've got rain Fred. And it is coming
 
 in hard across the East Coast. Not all of the East Coast, but many from the Georgia coastline all the way up into the Carolinas as this area of low pressure just sits and spins. 
 
It's heavy at times. And yes, there's a few thunderstorms. Savannah probably hearing a few rumbles, same for Charleston every once in a while, that second band rolling in. 
 
And it's not just the rain. It is raw, it's cold and it's windy. We've got a strong northeast wind rolling in and that makes it feel much colder. I mean we have temperatures in the 60s feeling like we're in the 50s if not even cooler. 
 
And with the northeast wind at 20, it's pulling in all of that water. So we have high surf advisories and coastal flood warnings in place. We're talking about wave heights of 4 to 8 feet, plus high rip currents. So stay out of the water. I wouldn't even go outside in this mess anyway.
 
We're talking about flooding conditions too. We have moderate flood risks especially down toward Wilmington. Over the next 48 hours, we could be talking about an additional 2 to 4 inches of rain, isolated higher amounts are possible. and I know this is a traveling holiday, it's hustle and bustle so please just slow down, take it easy. Hydroplaning becomes a big issue. 
 
We also have to keep in mind flooded roadways. Turn around, find a different route. You just don't know how deep that water is. 
 
And it's not just the East Coast that's dealing with active weather. The Plains, we have to watch for severe weather. You'll see areas highlighted in yellow, now update, parts of New Mexico back into the panhandle of Texas highlighted in yellow. That includes Clovis where we have the thr5eat possibility for damaging winds and hail. Those are our biggest concerns.
 
But isolated tornadoes can't be ruled out either. So keep that in mind as we're going out and about for the entire weekend.
 
Now, let's head back to the East Coast and down on into Florida. We have temperatures in the 80s. Orlando feeling like summer. And of course, we factor in the humidity there too and it feels like we're in the 90s. Thankfully, we have a beach nearby so we can head out there. And it doesn't look like it's going to rain. We just have a few clouds, Fred.
 
Now, not the case as we get up into New England. Places like D.C. as we get into the mid Atlantic, we have the opportunity for rain on Memorial Day itself. 
 <br>[11:59:57]
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. In those places, definitely have sweaters or ponchos or something ready or like you said, just stay inside. 
 
BRITLEY: Right. Exactly. 
 
WHITFIELD: Have your cookout inside. 
 
All right. Britley Ritz, thank you so much.