Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Eating Disorder Helpline Stops Using AI Chatbot; Sherpa Saves Climber from Everest "Death Zone"; Kim Cattrall Returns For "Sex And The City" Reboot. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired June 01, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: This morning, a group that tries to prevent eating disorders said it had to take down an AI power tool after users complained it was giving harmful advice. The National Eating Disorders Association took the chatbot called Tessa offline.
 
CNN's Senior Medical Correspondent Elizabeth Cohen is here with the details. So, what was the chatbot saying and how did it happen?
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: So, John, we don't know everything that the chatbot said that might not have been appropriate. But one user on social media said that they told the chatbot that they were experiencing an eating disorder and the chatbot said you should count calories and try to lose weight. Obviously, not the right response.
 
So, this association that runs the chatbot, they said they tested it out. They did you know really extensive testing and that it worked well. But then once it was off after a period of time, they said nefarious activity from bad actors occurred. They said it was not a -- there was -- it was a small percentage of all the activity, but there was nefarious activity from bad actors.
 
Let's take a look at what the Eating Disorders Association said in a statement. They said it came to our attention last night that the current version of the Tessa Chatbot, running the Body Positive program, may have given information that was harmful and unrelated to the program. We are investigating this immediately and have taken down that program until further notice for a complete investigation.
 
So, John, if we sort of put even this one individual sort of occurrence aside, it certainly does bring up in a more general sense are chatbots really appropriate to be using when people -- you know vulnerable people are asking for advice? Maybe human beings are the best option for that situation, John.
 
BERMAN: It's a good point. And an issue that requires some sensitivity, can a computer handle it? Elizabeth Cohen, thank you very much. Kate? KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: A cyberattack at an Idaho hospital has left employees scrambling really and is crippled their admissions process. It started Monday, and it's forced the hospital to even divert ambulances to other medical facilities for care. And doctors and nurses resorting to using pen and paper to update patient charts in the midst of all of this.
 
CNN Cybersecurity Reporter Sean Lyngaas, he's looking into this for us. He's joining us now. Sean, how did this happen? What are you picking up?
 
SEAN LYNGAAS, CNN CYBERSECURITY REPORTER: Kate, well, it started on Monday, as you said. The hospital released a relatively generic statement, which is common in this type of situation, saying they are taking all precautions to make sure that the patient care is interrupted. But based on my experience, what they're going through is pretty straightforward in the sense that they immediately try to unplug the computer systems, take them down so the computer virus won't spread. And then the doctors are forced to go back you know, 10, 20 years -- 30 years to pen and paper rather than consulting you know, computers to look at the patient information.
 
And while they're trained to do that, you know, some younger generations aren't necessarily as familiar with that old-school methodology, so they're adapting on the fly right now. And you know the hospital told us that there -- they are taking all precautions to keep things going in terms of patient care. But the ambulance diversion, sadly, is something that we've seen time and again during the pandemic where these under-resourced hospitals are hit with a -- some sort of hacking incident and they have to send patients elsewhere to different hospitals, Kate.
 <br>[22:35:18]
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. I mean, just happened Monday. And here on Thursday, they're still dealing with the fallout of this. Sean, thank you for reporting. Rahel?
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: OK, coming up for us. A Malaysian climber is recovering after being rescued from the so-called the Death Zone of Mount Everest. Details on how a Sherpa guide was able to make this rare rescue. Also, a health warning on every single cigarette. Which country is now requiring this? We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:07]
 
BERMAN: New clues today in the 2007 disappearance of British toddler, Madeleine McCann. According to German prosecutors, a number of items were seized during a three-day search of a reservoir in Portugal about 30 miles from where Madeleine was last seen. Those items will be examined in the coming weeks.
 
Poison in every puff. That is one of the new labels you can expect to see on individual cigarettes in Canada. It is part of a series of new tobacco regulations announced by the country's health officials. They go into effect in August. And the health warnings will be required to be printed directly on each cigarette by the end of April 2025.
 
So, the royal wedding celebration in Jordan has begun. The guests include the Prince and Prince Since of Wales who arrived today for the wedding of Jordan's Crown Prince, and fiance. Firstly, Jill Biden is also there for today's ceremony. I did not get invited, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Well, I don't know what to say because I did. I was just really couldn't take off work because I shouldn't be here with you. So you know, that's how -- we make choices. We all do.
 
OK, let's turn to this something far more interesting than what I was just saying to John. A Sherpa guide is being hailed a hero after pulling off a dangerous rescue on Mount Everest. This video that we're showing you right here, this is what we're talking about.
 
This is a Malaysian climber who is strapped to this guide's back. As you can see wrapped in -- it looks like a sleeping bag. The guide helped carry the climber down from below the summit after he found him clinging to a rope and shivering from the extreme cold.
 
CNN's Marc Stewart. He's in -- he's joining us now. He's live on this. So, Marc, what are you hearing about this? How the climber is doing and how the Sherpa pulled off what seems nearly impossible?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the climber from what we understand, Kate, is OK and was put on a plane back to Malaysia. But this whole rescue is being described as very rare because, as we've talked about over the years, I mean, Mount Everest is not a forgiving place. So, in this case, the guide was taking another climber up the track up Mount Everest and noticed this other climber in need from an area of Mount Everest, known as the death zone. And that title because the conditions there are just that harsh. There's cold temperatures, there's wind, it's a very treacherous place.
 
This guide, otherwise known as a Sherpa was able to take this climber and basically drag them down the mountain. It took several hours. Connected then with another guide. A chopper came landed at around 23,000 feet and took this climber to safety.
 
I mean, it is very, very harrowing. We heard from this guide -- from the Sherpa speaking to us from his post in Kathmandu in Nepal. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GELJE SHERPA, NEPAL SHERPA WHO RESCUED MALAYSIAN CLIMBER (through translator): It was important for us to rescue him, even from the summit. Money can be earned at any time. Left like that, he could have died. We have saved his life by quitting the summit.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: Some perspective from that Sherpa and some perspective on life. To put this all in perspective, Kate, this is by nature a very risky expedition. Right now, it just -- the spring season just ended.
 
It's a popular time because the weather's a little bit more forgiving. But so far this year, during the spring climbing season, 12 people have died. Five people, Kate, are still missing.
 
BOLDUAN: And that's what I was going to say. I mean, they honestly were making this look easy -- like easy in bringing this -- bringing this climber down. Just remind people how treacherous this is without having someone strapped to your back and having to hold them down 2000 feet.
 
STEWART: Right. I was thinking about it. I used to live in Colorado and the big thing to do there was decline the mountains, of course.
 
In Colorado, some of the tallest mountains there are about 14,000 feet. Mount Everest is close to 30,000 feet. And as we know, nature is not forgiving.
 
BOLDUAN: And those temperatures can get down to negative 86, and what they're dealing with. It really -- it's so wonderful to be able to bring a story like this and the hard work these guys do all the time.
 
STEWART: Yes.
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you so much, Marc. Really appreciate it. Rahel?
 
SOLOMON: All right. Kate, thank you. And just like that, Samantha Jones has returned to the city.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAMANTHA JONES, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: Honey, you put up a very good fight. But do you have no idea who you're dealing with?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: We are, of course, talking about Sex and the City. What we're learning about Kim Cattrall's upcoming cameo? But first, here is Dr. Sanjay Gupta with today's "CHASING LIFE."
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey there, I'm Dr. Sanjay Gupta, host of CNN's "CHASING LIFE" podcast. Who can resist stepping out and feeling the light on your face on a nice sunny day?
 <br>[11:45:04]
 
I love it. But look, most people don't think about sunscreen unless they're at the pool or the beach. And that's becoming an increasing concern as skin cancer is the most common type of cancer in the United States.
 
The advice is simple, right? Wear sunscreen. But one CDC survey found that only around 12 percent of men and 29 percent of women said they always wore sunscreen when they were outside for more than an hour. And yes, you still do need it even if it's cool and cloudy.
 
You also need to make sure that your sunscreen is SPF 30 or higher. And you want to wear one that is broad spectrum. That means it's protecting you from two types of UV rays, UVA and UVB.
 
And just so you know, UVA rays, they tend to cause premature aging. UVB rays, they're the ones that typically cause sunburns and maybe cancer.
 
Want even more protection? Try to avoid the most intense rays, which are between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Sunglasses, hats, long sleeve shirts, those things can obviously help as well.
 
And you can hear more about how to optimize your health and chase life wherever you get your podcasts.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:51:32]
 
SOLOMON: Grab a Cosmo because apparently, Kim Cattrall is back. The news delighting Sex And The City fans everywhere after she famously told Variety last year that she declined to join the cast amid rumors of infighting. A spokesperson for sister network, HBO Max confirming to CNN that she will film a scene as Samantha Jones, the sex-positive powerful publicist for the reboot, And Just Like That, on HBO.
 
CNN Entertainment Reporter Chloe Melas has all of the details. So, Chloe, what more do we know about this scene? This is pretty big news here.
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Earth-shattering, Rahel. It's all my friends can talk about. OK, so here's what we know.
 
We know that the scene was filmed in March in a parking garage in Queens, that Kim Cattrall filmed this scene in a town car. We don't know the details of what her character, Samantha, is doing. But we do know that she -- her name was not on the call sheet.
 
She was in she was out. And as far as we know, she did not interact with any of her famous cast members, and none of which have spoken out. And like you said, this is a shock.
 
It's a welcome shock though because fans of the show have wanted her to come back. And like you said, she said that watching the first season of the reboot, And Just Like That, felt like a "echo of the past."
 
So, her feelings about the reboot and not wanting to come back were pretty negative. So, this is a big departure from where we were last year when she was talking publicly about the reboot.
 
SOLOMON: Well, Chloe, if I remember correctly, the last episode of the first season was a bit of a cliffhanger between Carrie and Samantha. Would they be rekindling the relationship in real life though? Do we know what's happened between then and now in terms of why suddenly she seems to be back? Because it seems like she previously didn't have plans to return.
 
MELAS: So -- exactly. So, we don't know who extended an olive branch and who or what was the impetus for getting Kim Cattrall to come back. Was it just a big payday? Did she talk to the women?
 
But the fact that she filmed a scene without them, her names on on the call sheet, she doesn't interact with them leads you to think that it was probably something or somebody else and it wasn't one of the main women that got her to come back. Sarah Jessica Parker has always handled herself with grace about the situation. And she has, you know, said that she has no hard feelings toward Kim Cattrall.
 
But Kim Cattrall famously had a very public feud with SJP on social media when her brother passed away and Sarah Jessica Parker -- if you don't know the story, you guys can Google it later. But Sarah Jessica Parker wrote a comment on social media offering her condolences. And Kim Cattrall basically said you've never cared about me. And it was a very public feud that played out several years ago.
 
Look, they filmed several seasons together. It is not uncommon, as we know, and I know myself when these celebrities, they filmed these shows, they might seem like the best of friends on screen. Behind the scenes, there's drama. I think that friends might be one of the only shows where they truly were all hanging out together and really just rode off into the sunset. But when you're working those long hours for so many years, for so many seasons, drama can come.
 
SOLOMON: Yes.
 
MELAS: As for what moved the needle, we don't know. But all we know is that she's back and people are ready for it. So, you got to imagine that this is going to drum up some ratings.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
SOLOMON: I'm sure. And a lot of buzz. I'm sure lots of people are talking about this today. Chloe Melas, great breakdown.
 
But Chloe touches on a really great point, which was that for fans of the show, you know, Carrie and Samantha were great friends. And so, to hear some of these rumors of the infighting, it was tragic --it was tragic.
 
BOLDUAN: Some people just -- that's what people say about us.
 
BERMAN: You'll just assume we like each other. It doesn't always work out like that -- 
 
BOLDUAN: We have no idea.
 
BERMAN: -- what you see on TV.
 
SOLOMON: Wait. Do you not like Kate and me? BERMAN: It's not always have since. I will say I'm very much team Samantha here. And I do think occasionally like a grudge is a really bad thing to waste. I mean, there are very few truly strong grudges in this world that I hate to see people going back at them even just for money.
 
BOLDUAN: I just think they should -- I think they should just you know, bring it to their art and they should just bring it onto the screen.
 
SOLOMON: Bring it onto the screen, exactly, which they may be doing though.
 
BERMAN: This is what we do every day.
 
BOLDUAN: I'll think about it again.
 
BERMAN: Thank you all so much for joining us. This has been CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "INSIDE POLITICS" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)