Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Officials: United States To Send Cluster Munitions To Ukraine; CNN Tours Camp Wagner Fighters Could Use In Belarus; Manhunt For "Dangerous" Escaped Inmate; Two Firefighters Killed, Six Injured In New Jersey Cargo Ship Fire; Special Counsel Focuses On Chaotic Dec 2020 WH Meeting; Chicago Cops Accused Of Improper Sexual Relations With Migrants; FDA Fully Approves Alzheimer's Drug; Alzheimer's Association Welcomes Leqembi's Approval; Fan's Taylor Swift Costume Goes Viral. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired July 08, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:00:03]
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN JOURNALIST: So, Fredricka, even though the real meeting will be next month on the eighth of August in (INAUDIBLE), Brazil.
 
Having Brazil and Colombia on board around the same proposal could be pivotal in overcoming the security crisis at the heart of the forest. Fredricka?
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Pivotal indeed, Stefano Pozzebon, thank you so much.
 
All right. Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
All right. The Biden administration is defending its decision to include controversial cluster bombs in its next round of military aid to Ukraine.
 
And it follows months of debate over whether to supply the munitions as Ukraine stockpile of weapons runs low.
 
Some Democrats have spoken out, saying they oppose the decision. President Biden in an exclusive interview with CNN's. Fareed Zakaria, justified his decision to approve the transfer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're in a situation where Ukraine continues to be brutally attacked across the board by munitions -- by these cluster munitions that are -- had dud rates that are very, very low -- I mean, very high, that are endangered to civilians. Number one.
 
Number two, the Ukrainians are running out of ammunition. The ammunition they used to call them 155-millimeter weapons. This is a -- this is a war relating to munitions. And the running out of those -- that ammunition -- (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: The bombs are canisters that carry anywhere from dozens to hundreds of mini bombs. Ukraine and Russia are already using them.
 
And this is video of a cluster bomb dropped on Ukraine last year. Sometimes these bomblets don't explode on impact, like in this attack, and can later pose threats to civilians.
 
The White House announcement on the cluster munitions comes as Ukraine continues its counter offensive against Russia.
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman is in eastern Ukraine.
 
So, Ben, do we expect the supply of these bombs to provide, you know, a significant boost to Ukrainian forces?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Certainly, Ukrainians believe they will make a difference if they're the kind of weapons that cover a -- they're sort of these munitions are sprayed over a very large area.
 
And for instance, yesterday, we were with artillery battery, that was firing 155-millimeter anti-personnel or anti-personnel rounds. And they're useful, but they don't cover the same kind of area as a cluster munition.
 
But obviously, there are concerns about what happens to some of those bomblets that don't go off.
 
Now, the Ukrainians, we heard the defense minister Oleksii Reznikov, thanking the U.S. in a tweet for these weapons. He said that Ukraine had been pressing the Americans for a very long time to provide them.
 
He said that Ukraine would follow three basic principles when it comes to using them, that they would not be used in urban areas, that they would only be used to liberate territory currently occupied by the Russians, and that they would keep detailed records of where they were used, so that when hostilities move on, or the war comes to an end, they can remove any so-called duds that are left behind, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, you know, Ben, Ukraine's forces are, you know, again, turning their attention around the Bakhmut area. You were just there. What's happening?
 
WEDEMAN: Well, what we saw there was that Russian forces in and around Bakhmut are being pounded by heavy Ukrainian artillery. The Ukrainian troops we spoke to said that they have noticed a decrease in the amount of incoming Russian rounds because they believe the Russians have been pushed back further.
 
In fact, today we heard from the 3rd Assault Brigade, which is one of the sort of the units that spearheading the offensive in the south of Bakhmut. And they said that they have taken strategic high ground in the village of Klishchiivka, which is just south of Bakhmut. So, they continue to make these small but important gains on the battlefield. However, the Russians are continuing to fire back at Ukrainian civilian areas, and the town of Lyman, which is about 25 miles north of Bakhmut.
 
Russian rockets, a number of them slammed into a residential area, where residents were shopping for groceries at food stalls. At least eight civilians were killed, more than a dozen injured. Fredricka?
 
WHITFIELD: Terrible. All right. Ben Wedeman in eastern Ukraine. Thanks so much.
 
So, it's been two weeks since the Wagner groups failed rebellion against Russia. And the whereabouts of leader, Yevgeny Prigozhin are still unknown.
 <br>[13:05:00]
 
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko who brokered the deal to end the uprising says, right now, neither Prigozhin nor his troops are in Belarus. But that could change.
 
CNN's Matthew Chance is in Belarus, with a look at the camps prepared for the Wagner troops.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): This is the closest we've ever come to a Wagner camp. Not in Russia, nor the Ukrainian front lines, but standing empty for now, in Belarus.
 
CHANCE: Well, this is where we thought that Wagner soldiers invited to Belarus could be housed, in fast tent city. That this -- supposedly, this used military base, about 100 kilometers, 70 miles or so outside of the Belarusian capital.
 
In tents like these that have been set up to house a couple of dozen fighters at any given time. That for the most part, empty at the moment. And that's because the plan to invite Wagner and its leader over here into Belarus after their military uprising in Russia now appears to be on hold.
 
CHANCE (voice over): Recent satellite images showed how quickly the camp at Asipovichy was transformed, ready to house large numbers of troops at short notice.
 
And the Belarusian general who gave us access, told me, Wagner forces could still be deployed here if the political decision is made.
 
There is room for up to 5,000 soldiers at this camp alone, he tells me. And we have other facilities too.
 
CHANCE: Have you been told to prepare this camp for the possible arrival of Wagner fighters? Is that what you were told?
 
CHANCE (voice over): We've prepared it for training and for territorial defense, he says.
 
It was the sudden announcement by the leader of Belarus that neither Wagner nor its leader was in fact in the country that seems to have thrown planning into disarray.
 
Lukashenko insists his offer, which helps bring Wagner's armed uprising to an end last month is still on the table.
 
But with new questions over Wagner and its leader, it seems unlikely this would-be Wagner camp will ever now be filled.
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, Asipovichy, in Belarus.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Let's talk more about all of this with Jill Dougherty. She's an adjunct professor at Georgetown University and a CNN contributor. And she just wrote an analysis of the situation for cnn.com. All right, Jill, great to see you.
 
So, it's been a couple of weeks now. I mean, what do you think is really going on here? Are you got an encampment, you know, for the Wagner troops yet, no sign of the troops.
 
We heard the Belarusian president say, you know, Prigozhin is welcome here, but there has been no sighting of Prigozhin. So, what's happening here?
 
JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: I think behind the scenes, they are still trying to figure this out. They being President Putin primarily. And then, Lukashenko of Belarus, working with him in some fashion.
 
But, you know, the guy who controls things, obviously, is Putin. And what he's got right now is a double problem. He has, what do you do with Prigozhin, who started a rebellion? And who's been slimed in the Russian media? Just, you know, a few days ago, with video showing, oh, this rich guy, he had gold bars, and cash, and guns, and disguises. And that's all over the Russian media.
 
And then, what do you do with the fighters, you know, the Wagner fighters, and depending upon, you know, who we believe, there could be 25,000 of them. We believe that, 5,000 of them tried to march to Moscow. So, we're talking about, you know, some significant numbers.
 
So, they're kind of dangerous, Fred. I mean, when you think they are hardened season fighters, really ruthless. They've been fighting in Ukraine, and depending on who would they follow. Will they continue to follow Prigozhin? Will they, you know, salute and join the Russian military? Or would they somehow sign a contract with Lukashenko?
 
I think the other shoe is still has to draw up on this.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. But you, you know, you preface that with, you know, Putin is very intentional, you know, nothing happens without him, you know, really being the master of the plan. And so, intentionally, the world doesn't know where Prigozhin is. Doesn't know where, you know, his troops are going to go yet. Intentionally, there was a release of that video of the raid that you talked about, which then colors the view of people potentially about Prigozhin, you know, that he had these gold bars, that there were wigs.
 
I mean, adding to the mystery of him, yet without ever seeing him.
 <br>[13:10:03]
 
So, if Putin is so intentional, what is the intent here? What does this just make for a better mystery? Or does -- is this a prelude to a big reveal?
 
DOUGHERTY: You know, a while ago, I would have said, Putin pretty much runs things. Now, I'm not so sure.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh.
 
DOUGHERTY: I mean, I think this could be an indication of chaos behind the scenes. I mean, Putin may want to obviously -- Putin would have a -- have a difficulty really having Prigozhin running around free.
 
I think that would be a problem. Because after all, this is the guy who started a rebellion against the Russian military and killed some of them.
 
But, you know, what you do with him? Putin may want to do something with him, but may be incapable or afraid of what the blowback would be, if he did something to Prigozhin.
 
So, there are a lot of factors at play. And I think it really boils down to, this is -- this is not an act, I really do think that there is confusion behind the scenes.
 
And we're going to have to see how all of this develops.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, interesting.
 
All right. And now, you know, what do you believe the sentiment is, now, the Biden administration has said, you know, we are going to supply these cluster bombs.
 
But it wasn't that long ago that the U.S. was among many, who criticized Russia for using them in Ukraine. But now, the U.S. is pledging to equip Ukraine with these cluster bombs. So, is this rattling the cage of Putin, of Russia, in any way?
 
DOUGHERTY: Well, I think they would be worried, obviously, in -- on a military level, because that could be effective, even though, obviously, it puts -- it could put civilians in harm's way.
 
Now, I think what's interesting is the Russians, obviously are jumping on this. Russian propaganda is depicting it this way. They are saying, you know, Biden knows that this could be dangerous for civilians, but he is doing it anyway.
 
But the in those reports, Russian propaganda reports, they're leaving out the fact that Russia already is using many more of these weapons or this ammunition than anyone is.
 
The Ukrainians are using it too, and that they are much more, let's call them primitive and destructive weapons.
 
So, Russia is using them. And then, Russian propaganda is saying, the United States and Ukraine haven't signed international conventions against this type of weapon.
 
That is true, but neither has Russia. And Russian propaganda is leaving out that fact.
 
So, I think what they're trying to do is just, you know, make it be as critical as possible, by leaving out half the story that Russia is doing this in spades. So, that's kind of where we are.
 
But how it will affect the battlefield? Obviously, Biden thought that it would be more effective, even with the downside of these really destructive weapons.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We'll leave it there for now Jill Dougherty. Great to see you. Thanks so much.
 
DOUGHERTY: Thanks, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, still to come. An urgent manhunt is underway in Pennsylvania for an escaped inmate, police are calling dangerous with known survivalist skills.
 
Details on how he managed to escape and what authorities are asking residents to do to help track him down.
 
Plus, a fire that killed two firefighters on a cargo ship in New Jersey continues to burn right now. How long officials think it will take to put out the flames.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:17:43]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Right now, a manhunt is underway in Pennsylvania and New York for an escaped inmate who, police say is dangerous with known survivalist skills.
 
They say Michael Charles Burham, escaped from a prison in Warren County, using a piece of exercise equipment to climb through the roof.
 
Burham was being held on arson and burglary charges, and he's also a suspect in a homicide investigation.
 
CNN's Rafael Romo is following this for us. So, what are you hearing from police? RAFAEL ROMO, CNN SENIOR LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS EDITOR: Yes, and we are learning more details about who he really is. He is 34 years old. His name is Michael Charles Burham, as you said, and has active warrants for rape, and is a suspect in a homicide and arson investigation. This is according to the North Charleston, South Carolina Police Department.
 
Also, Burham allegedly kidnapped the local couple and carjack their car in Warren County in Pennsylvania. So, we're talking about two different states here. That happened in May, according to a criminal docket we have reviewed and a spokeswoman in the same county. In that case, a Pennsylvania judge set bail at $1 million.
 
Police say, Burham escaped from the Warren County Prison Friday by elevating himself on exercise equipment and exiting the jail yard through a metal gate and roof.
 
Officials say he was able to use bedsheets that were tied together to get from the roof to the ground.
 
And local police say he may be more elusive to catch than normal.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEFF DOUGHERTY, WARREN CITY POLICE CAPTAIN: He is a survivalist. He has been known to do these things in the past, be able to survive out there.
 
That's why it's extremely important for us to ask the public, they know anything, and they see anything. That there is any camera footage out there, please let us know.
 
CECILE STELTER, SPOKESPERSON, WARREN COUNTY: This person is dangerous. We would ask the public please take this seriously. And please use care, do not approach him. And please call 911 with any suspicious circumstances.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO: The warning from authorities there, and in addition to searching for Burham on foot with K-9 units, law enforcement officers are also using ATVs, drones, and aircraft, according to a spokeswoman with Warren County.
 
She also said that there's no indication the suspect is being assisted by anybody, but he is familiar with the area in Northwest Pennsylvania.
 <br>[13:20:03]
 
Prison officials declined to comment but the county emphasize that no one -- no one should engage with the suspect in any way, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. All right. Thank you so much. Keep us posted on the ongoing search. All right. Let's go to New Jersey now, where a deadly fire on a cargo ship continues to burn days after it started. Officials are now warning that it could take several more days to beat back the flames.
 
Two firefighters died battling that fire: Wayne Brooks and Augusto Acabou. Six others were injured. CNN's Polo Sandoval is monitoring the developments at the site. They're in Newark. Polo, what is the latest?
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred.
 
So, the New York and New Jersey Port Authority, Fred, saying that the fire from Wednesday night has really not affected the lighter port operations. About 99 percent of port operations are still moving along with business as usual.
 
So, a lot of the focus is certainly going to be on those hotspots. As you just mentioned, authorities making clear yesterday that it may take some time before they completely knock out all the flames.
 
I'll step out of the shot for a quick second. So, you can see that Italian flag ship, way off in the distance there. Very difficult to actually see any damage. Because a lot of that massive fire was actually inside of the vessel.
 
You see some of the marks that are left behind on the hole. And you may be able to make out firefighters still trying to douse some of those potential hotspots on board. But really, from our vantage point, no visible signs that there are still -- the flames that are continuing at this hour.
 
Really, the biggest concern is not only those hotspots, but also any potential pollution. Authorities saying yesterday that they don't have any reason to believe there's been any sort of oil contamination in the areas surrounding.
 
Air quality is also going to be something that authorities are going to monitor. They have some of those monitoring stations around the ship itself. Even one as far as a mile away. Detecting any potential contaminants. There was some sulfur dioxide that was detected yesterday that prompted officials to pull back the first responders for a little while until those levels stabilized before sending them back in.
 
And then, of course, the vessel itself, the salvage company that's here on the ground working with authorities saying that it is still "stable," though there is some tilting to the right and they do have a plan in place to address any further listing of the ship.
 
But then, of course, the human toll. Two brave firefighters giving up their lives as they were responding on Wednesday night. You named them a little while ago. Officials positively identifying them as Wayne Brooks, Jr. His uncle, calling him a real-life Superman.
 
And also, Augusto Acabou, which was known by his family and friends as Auggie. Somebody who was tough as nails, but also, as just as sweet as they come. You have the firefighting community, you certainly have the families of these two firefighters that are leaning on each other for -- to cope with the loss and to grieve their funeral scheduled in the coming days.
 
Five firefighters did suffer non-life-threatening injuries in addition to that. As that investigation presses on, it's going to be the Coast Guard supported by other agencies is going to be leading the investigation into that fire on Wednesday night.
 
Hundreds of cars will be transported on that vessel behind me, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval, thanks so much.
 
All right. Coming up, the chaotic Oval Office meeting in the final days of the Trump administration is now a focus in the special counsel probe.
 
Why investigators are so interested in what happened on that December day? Next.
 
Plus, a Taylor Swift fan goes viral for doing an interview under a blanket. You got to see this one.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:27:46]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Now, to a CNN exclusive report, sources tell CNN, the special counsel probe into Donald Trump is focusing on a chaotic Oval Office meeting in the final days of his presidency.
 
We now know that outside advisors were at the heated meeting, pushing a series of extreme measures for Trump to stay in office, including martial law.
 
CNN's Zachary Cohen is joining us now. Zach, tell us more.
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yes, Fred.
 
We've learned that prosecutors in just the last few weeks have asked multiple witnesses about this Oval Office meeting that took place on December 18th, 2020. That's just weeks after Donald Trump lost the presidential election.
 
And there's been questions specifically about three individuals. He's outside advisors, who are pushing ideas about seizing voting machines using the military, instituting martial law, and appointing a special counsel to investigate what we're already proven to be baseless claims of widespread voter fraud.
 
Now, these three individuals include Trump's former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, his former attorney Sidney Powell and former overstock CEO, Patrick Byrne.
 
Now, additionally, we are learning that Rudy Giuliani, Trump's former personal attorney was also asked about this meeting, when he sat down with prosecutors over a two-day span in recent weeks.
 
Now, Giuliani was there and participated in the meeting. He even alluded to a plan to gain access to voting systems in Georgia, which appears to have been successfully carried out.
 
But really, the defining moment and defining factor of this meeting was just how heated it became.
 
Listen to what several witnesses who testified before the January 6th committee said about this meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAT CIPOLLONE, FORMER WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL FOR PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I don't think any of these people were providing the president with good advice. And so, I didn't understand how they had gotten in.
 
ERIC HERSCHMANN, FORMER WHITE HOUSE ATTORNEY: And what they were proposing, I thought was nuts.
 
SIDNEY POWELL, FORMER TRUMP ATTORNEY: Cipollone and Hershmann and whoever the other guy was, showed nothing but contempt and disdain of the president.
 
If it had been me sitting in his chair, I would have fired all of them that night and had him escorted out of the building.
 
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER ATTORNEY TO PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: I'm going to -- I'm going to categorically describe it as you guys are not tough enough. Or maybe put it another way, you're a bunch of -- 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[13:30:06]
 
COHEN: So the timing of this meeting is really important. It happened after the states had already voted to certify their election results. 
 
That's why White House lawyers were really pushing Donald Trump to not only stop promoting baseless claims of widespread voter fraud that he had no evidence to support, but also to accept the electoral results, and as we know, of course, he did not do. 
 
After this meeting wrapped up, we know Trump went to the residence where he tweeted to his supporters to show up on January 6th and, quote, "be wild." 
 
So prosecutors definitely revisiting this Oval Office meeting in recent weeks and asking several witnesses about it. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Zachary Cohen, thanks for bringing all of that to us. 
 
Coming up, the Chicago Police Department is investigating several officers after allegations they engaged in improper sexual relations with newly arrived migrants. Details right after this. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:35:02]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, welcome back. Six passengers are dead after their plane crashed this morning in Riverside County, California. First responders arrived at the French Valley Airport and found the Cessna business jet completely engulfed in flames. 
 
All passengers were pronounced dead at the scene. The flight was in route from Las Vegas to Murrieta, California. 
 
Multiple Chicago police officers are under investigation for alleged improper sexual relations with newly arrived migrants. It's unclear how many officers are involved or if any of them have faced disciplinary action. 
 
Hundreds of migrants have been living in city buildings, including Chicago's police stations, for the past several months. They were bussed to the city after crossing the Texas border. 
 
CNN's Camila Bernal has more on the shocking allegations -- Camila? 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred. These allegations are currently being investigated. That's the biggest thing to remember here. We have to wait for the findings of the investigation or wait for more details from the Chicago Police Department. 
 
What they're saying is that these allegations say that officers at the 10th District were having improper relations with some of these migrants. Again, that has to be proven and investigated. 
 
But what we know so far is that the mayor is trying to move all of the migrants out of that police station, the 10th District, into shelters, proper shelters. 
 
There's been a lot of criticism over what's happening in Chicago and over having these migrants housed at the police stations. 
 
I talked to activists. I talked to the police union. Essentially, everybody is criticizing the move and saying it's not an ideal situation for the migrants. 
 
Here is one of the people that I spoke to what has been helping these migrants for a long time now and what she said of this situation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. EVELYN FIGUEROA, DIRECTOR, PILSEN FOOD PANTRY: This is a complete lose-lose situation. Unless you have dedicated staff that are going to ensure equity, safety, accountability, these types of things are going to happen. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BERNAL: I also spoke to the president of the police union. He says, look, a lot of these officers go above and beyond when it comes to helping the migrants. 
 
He says he has a lot of questions, though, about these allegations and says these need to be investigated. 
 
Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN C. CATANZARA JR, PRESIDENT, FRATERNAL ORDER OF POLICE, CHICAGO LODGE NO. 7: We're not here saying, if it really happened that we're condoning that behavior at all, because we certainly are not. But until we get a little more concrete evidence there's any validity to it at all, it's just a baseless B.S. allegation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: The mayor's office says they will continue and finish moving the migrants out of the 10th District police station today. 
 
They say this is part of a strategy to move the migrants from the police stations to a shelter, to somewhere they can actually receive help and have someone there to help them or oversee them or protect them. 
 
But the mayor's office saying they're offering mental health resources and will continue to look into this investigation and focus on what's going on here. 
 
But again, there's just so much criticism from both sides here who say this shouldn't be where the migrants are being housed -- Fred? 
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Camila Bernal, thanks so much.
 
BERNAL: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: Still to come, the first Alzheimer's drug that slows progression gets full FDA approval. What this means in the fight against the disease right after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:43:00]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, this week, the Food and Drug Administration fully approved Leqembi, the first treatment proven to slow the progression of Alzheimer's. And with approval, an estimated one million patients suffering with early forms of the disease will now have access to the treatment. 
 
CNN's Meg Tirrell reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Six years ago, Joe Montminy saw a neurologist for what he thought were a few minor problems with his memory. 
 
JOE MONTMINY, DIAGNOSED WITH ALZHEIMER'S: She came back and said, you know what, Joe, you actually have younger onset Alzheimer's disease. 
 
You're likely going to start to experience declines in the next five years. And you may not recognize your family in five to seven years. 
 
TIRRELL: Now 59, Montminy is one of millions of Americans living with Alzheimer's disease. 
 
But this year, new hope emerged. A drug aiming to slow down the disease's progression got accelerated FDA approval in January based on the fact that it clears amyloid plaque buildups in the brain associated with Alzheimer's. 
 
But Medicare declined to cover it until the FDA granted a fuller traditional approval based on a bigger clinical trial proving the drug has benefits for thinking clearly and being able to function in daily life. 
 
Without insurance, the medicine, called Lecanemab and sold under the brand Leqembi, costs $26,500 a year. 
 
MONTMINY: You had this treatment at your fingertips and, suddenly, you had Medicare saying, yes, but you can't quite get access to that at this point in time. 
 
TIRRELL: A larger trial funded by the drug's makers, Eisai and Biogen, did find that Leqembi can slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease by about 27 percent. It's the first time a drug has proven to alter the disease's course. 
 
LAWRENCE HONIG, PROFESSOR OF NEUROLOGY, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IRVING MEDICAL CENTER: It was a very dismaying experience getting a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, and to be told that we don't have anything that will slow down or stop the disease in its tracks. 
 <br>[13:44:58]
 
TIRRELL: Columbia University's Dr. Lawrence Honig says this is the beginning of a new treatment era. But he warns that Leqembi is not a cure and not everyone will be eligible for the drug. 
 
(on-camera): How difficult do you anticipate the conversations being with people who are more advanced and maybe are too advanced to benefit from the drug? 
 
HONIG: We're already having these conversations that sometimes aren't so easy. It's not that we know it's not good for people with moderate or severe disease, it's just that we don't know. 
 
TIRRELL (voice-over): Side effects could be worse for people with more advanced diseases as well, he says. Already, there's something to be aware of. About 13 percent of
 
 patients receiving the drug in its trial had brain swelling, 17 percent had brain bleeding, compared with 9 percent in the placebo group. 
 
Leqembi is administered through I.V. infusion once every two weeks. Infusion centers like Vivo Infusion are gearing up for an expected surge in new patients. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In certain areas, I anticipate we will receive probably at least 15 percent to 20 percent more patient referrals for this drug. 
 
TIRRELL: Joe Montminy is hoping he'll be able to get it for a chance for more time with his wife and two grown sons. 
 
MONTMINY: Like any parent, I would love to see them actually get married and have a family. I just want to experience many of the activities that most people take for granted. 
 
TIRRELL: Meg Tirrell, CNN, reporting.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: The Alzheimer's Association said in a statement Thursday that it welcomes the FDA's full approval. 
 
The group's president and CEO wrote, "This treatment, while not a cure, can give people in the early stages of Alzheimer's more time to maintain their independence and do the things they love." 
 
More than six million Americans are currently diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. 
 
I want to discuss the impact of this new treatment more with Robert Egge. He's the chief public policy officer with the Alzheimer's Association. 
 
Robert, so great to see you. 
 
ROBERT EGGE, CHIEF PUBLIC POLICY OFFICER, ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION: Thank you. Great to be here.
 
WHITFIELD: In your view, how significant was this week's approval OF Leqembi? 
 
EGGE: There's two ways to look at it. Both of those ways say this is a big deal. The first is for every individual -- it won't be for everybody. That's a personal decision to make, to discuss with your doctor. 
 
But the other way to look at this is that this is the first time for Alzheimer's we've had this kind of treatment. It's the last major disease in our country, Alzheimer's, that has reached the milestone. So we're glad to be here. WHITFIELD: So does this approval mean potentially bringing down the
 
 cost? Because $26,000 a year in order to be able to use this or be prescribed it or be treated with it, boy, that seems very difficult for a lot of people. 
 
EGGE: It sure is. In fact, until Medicare provided coverage, which they had for every other FDA approved treatment until this one, it made it out of reach for so many people. 
 
So what we look at is, can any individual who decides it's right for them have access without this being a barrier? And Medicare's decision now has certainly removed a big barrier that stood in the way of so many people. 
 
WHITFIELD: As we heard in Meg's report, the treatment showed a decline in the disease's progression by up to 27 percent in clinical trials. That number may not sound like much to a lot of people, but it does seem pretty significant. 
 
So what does that mean in reality for families affected by Alzheimer's? 
 
Just as we heard from the Alzheimer's Association representative, it allows for more time for people who are diagnosed with Alzheimer's to enjoy some quality of life that might have been short ended without this kind of medical intervention, right? 
 
EGGE: Right. I don't think it would surprise many viewers that Alzheimer's is perhaps the most feared disease for American seniors. And when we probe and ask why that's true, it's because losing independence is such a devastating thing. 
 
What this drug does and is proven now is -- comprehensively is to delay that loss of independence, which is the most important thing you can do for those with Alzheimer's. 
 
It's not a cure. We want more. We're going to build to more over time with research. But this is a very important next step to have perhaps six extra months of living the way we saw with that person Joe, who was just interviewed. 
 
WHITFIELD: As with many medical treatments, not everyone will be eligible for Leqembi. In the meantime, what are the options for patients? 
 
EGGE: Right. So first of all, the fundamental thing is, if you are at the earliest stages, if you sense there's something that doesn't seem right to you, you're losing some capacity, it might not be Alzheimer's, but you need to have that checked out. 
 
Number one is talk to your provider. Don't dismiss it. Because these treatments, this first treatment is the most effective, we believe, the earliest it's taken.
 
So start those conversations. If you find out, for instance, you have issues due to another kind of dementia, there are important things you can do there too. 
 <br>[13:49:59]
 
First is to start the care plan with doctors that can work with you to develop to help you kind of game plan for what's ahead, whether you have Alzheimer's or some other cause of your declining memory. 
 
WHITFIELD: I realize there would be variation of things, but when you say, when things don't seem right, and that provokes you to go get checked out, what are some of those things? 
 
Because I think the knee-jerk reaction is, oh, being forgetful. Well, we can all be very forgetful about things. 
 
EGGE: That's right.
 
WHITFIELD: But at what point is it alarming, where you need to, you know, get things checked out? 
 
EGGE: Well, that's such a good point. I often forget names all the time, so I know me doing that is not a reason to go to my health care provider immediately. 
 
What I would pay close attention to, if it seems to be declining to me or doing knew things that are not like I typically experience, like losing my way on a common drive.
 
Or if those around me, my friends and family tell me, something is different, those would indicate to me it's time to get to my doctor and talk about this. 
 
WHITFIELD: What are the next milestones, in your view, toward potentially finding a cure for Alzheimer's? 
 
EGGE: One thing that has been so exciting that many people don't realize is that, when we talk about all the things that Congress disagrees about, Alzheimer's research has been a point of agreement and they've put a lot of well-needed funding into Alzheimer's research.
 
And it's starting to pay off. Not just in this line of research, which attacks the disease in one way, but many others, too. 
 
For instance, inflammation goes with Alzheimer's. And that's thought to be a reason why your cognition declines. 
 
So we're having a full-court press and we expect over the next 10 years, with things like this, there could be perhaps a very profound difference in what Alzheimer's means to those of us who are diagnosed. 
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. All right, very promising. 
 
Robert Egge, thank you so much. Good to see you. 
 
EGGE: Thank you. WHITFIELD: Coming up, if you haven't bought your Power Ball ticket for tonight's drawing, there's still a little time left. Next, we'll tell you how much is actually up for grabs. Hint, a lot. 
 
And the new CNN original series "SEE IT LOUD" is coming your way. Executive produced by LeBron James and Maverick Carter, this five-part docuseries explores the impact of black television on all cultures. Don't miss the premiere tomorrow night at 9:00 Eastern, right here on CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:56:54]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, feeling like you're about to strike it rich? Well, the payout for the passive Power Ball jackpot in today's drawing is $615 million, the tenth largest ever. The winner can choose to spread the payments out over 30 years or take the lump sum payout of just over $310 million. 
 
And while no one matched all six numbers plus the red Power Ball on Wednesday, lottery officials say three lucky players in Florida, Ohio and New York each won $1 million. 
 
And if there is no winner today, the Multi-State Lottery Association says Monday's drawing could hit an estimated $650 million. 
 
If you remember, a ticket sold in California last year, winning the largest ever Power Ball prize of every $2 billion. So good luck. 
 
A dedicated Taylor Swift fan, dubbed as Blanket Girl, has the Internet wrapped around her finger. The secret Swifty went viral during an interview while she waited in line to buy merchandise before the Heiress tour in Cincinnati. Can you believe she actually got away with that?
 
Blanket Girl told the reporter she wanted to conceal her identity because she had called out from work. 
 
CNN's Jeanne Moos has more on the undercover fan. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): She found fame by hiding under a blanket in a long line of Taylor Swift fans waiting to buy concert merchandise in Cincinnati. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: There are two Swifties here who shall remain anonymous who called in sick to work. 
 
MOOS: It wasn't her dedication to Taylor Swift that made her WKRC interview go viral. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I almost named my daughter's middle name Taylor, so. MOOS: It was her dedication to her disguise. The Sensi T-shirt folks
 
 immediately labelled her Legend. Then they claimed they found the Legend, though some commenters seemed slightly suspicious, noting she has man hands and it's a dude. 
 
The blanket seemed inspired by sheets worn by ghosts --
 
(SINGING)
 
MOOS: -- in Taylor's "Anti-Hero" music video. Fans have been known to track down the exact same sheets at Target. 
 
(SINGING)
 
MOOS: At Taylor's Cincinnati concerts there were sightings, likely copycats. 
 
"Saw two of the Legends walk into the concert, had floor seats, nonetheless." 
 
The blanket disguise reminded us of perp walks where those under arrest hide their faces, going so far as to use their own hair. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: And we're going to cross our fingers that work doesn't find out, right?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: We're good. 
 
Your secret is safe with me. 
 
MOOS: And if, by any chance, you want to talk incognito, queen, give us a call. We promise to keep your identity under wraps. 
 
"She reminded many of Cousin It from 'The Addams Family.'" 
 
UNIDENTIFIED ACTRESS: Now, you can open your eyes, Cousin It.
 
COUSIN IT: (SPEAKING UNKNOWN LANGUAGE)
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
MOOS: Move over, Cousin It. This is the it girl of the Taylor Swift Heiress tour.