Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Deadly Suicide Bombing in Pakistan Left 44 Killed, 120 Injured; 2023 Coup in Niger; Threats, Demonstrations, and Diplomacy All Exacerbate Tensions; Ukraine Peace Talks to be Hosted by Saudi Arabia; Russia's War on Ukraine; Russian Attacks Kills Donetsk Resident, Two Dead in Sumy, and Two Dead In Zaporizhzhia; Ukraine to Replace Soviet Hammer and Sickle on Motherland Monument in Kyiv with Ukrainian Trident; Nurse and Her Child Kidnapped in Haiti; Interview with Political and Security Analyst and Writer Raza Khan; Tracking Migrant Boats with High-Tech Surveillance in the U.K.; As it Moves Through Pacific, Typhoon Khanun Gets Stronger; Doksuri's Rains and Flooding Affecting China; Following Doksuri's Impact in China, Recovery Efforts Started; Cardi B Fights Back. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired July 31, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[00:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  Hello and welcome to all of our viewers watching from all around the world. I am Laila Harrak.
 
Ahead on "CNN Newsroom". A deadly bombing at a political convention in Pakistan, we're live in Islamabad with the latest.
 
In Niger, thousands take to the streets to protest in support of the coup in front of the French embassy.
 
And CNN investigates how the U.K. is using high tech surveillance to monitor and deter migrants attempting to cross the English Channel.
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from CNN center, this is "CNN Newsroom with Laila Harrak".
 
HARRAK:  A deadly day in Pakistan, at least 44 people were killed and more than 100 injured in a suspected suicide bombing at a political convention in the northwestern part of the country on Sunday. Members of an Islamist party had gathered in a town near the border with Afghanistan. Police say, the attacker detonated explosives near the convention stage, but no one has claimed responsibility for the attack so far.
 
For more, let's go to CNN Producer Sophia Saifi who is live for you in Islamabad, Pakistan. Sophia, Pakistan on high alert, what more do we know about this deadly blast?
 
SOPHIA SAIFI, CNN PRODUCER:  Laila, these kind of scenes in the past, in about 10, five years ago, were not unusual in this part of Pakistan. But the death toll that we've seen, over 40 dead, over 100 injured, close to 20 people still in critical condition. We're just waiting to see whether that death toll is going to increase or not.
 
The blast took place at a convention of the Jamiat-e-Islami F Party, which is quite a prominent and popular party here in Pakistan. There were about 500 people gathered in Bajaur Agency which borders Afghanistan in the northern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. There has been a spike in militancy in Pakistan, especially in those regions of the country.
 
We saw deadly attack back in January in the north the Pakistan in the City of Peshawar. There have been attacks in the past couple of months in Bajaur Agency, where this current attack took place, and previously the Islamic state has taken responsibility for this attack.
 
At the moment, we do not have a clear responsibility, but there is a heightened sense of secure -- insecurity across the country. We have an important visit happening in the capital, for example, at the moment. The Chinese vice premier is here to commemorate the decade of the One Belt One Road Project. So, there already was a heightened state of security. There's a public holiday in Islamabad for that specific reason to ensure that there is high for security in the country.
 
So, there is no claim of responsibility. There's been a universal condemnation against the attack. But this, again, is a general election year. Towards the end of October, November this year, we're expecting elections. And what we have seen in the past, even five years ago in the previous elections that took place and in previous elections before that, there have always been an increase in militancy, an increase in attacks on Democratic parties, on the Democratic system by militants. So, again no claim of responsibility but we're going to have to wait to see how the day unfolds today. Laila?
 
HARRAK:  Sophia, can I ask you a follow-up in terms of who -- tell us a little bit more about who was targeted here and about the timing.
 
SAIFI:  Right so, Laila, this is the Jamiat-e-Islami Party, they're a right-wing Islamist Party in the country. They are known to, kind of -- they're part of the current coalition government that is in power in Pakistan, the PDM. It's run by a divisive figure called Maulana Fazal-ur-Rehman. They're incredibly popular in many parts of Pakistan. So, they're not -- they are a prominent party in the country.
 
And, again, this was a worker's convention. All of the people who were there were in the lead up to the election campaigning that is about -- that is starting to take place by various prominent parties in the country. So, there is, again, you know, the fair that there's going to be an increase in militant attacks on political party workers, not just the JUYF but other parties as well.
 
So, again we're going into the election season with an increased signs of militancy in the country. We've seen it from the start of the year. There is political turmoil, generally in the country in the lead up to the election.
 <br>[00:05:00] So, again, a state of heightened security in the country. Laila.
 
HARRAK:  Sophia, reporting from Islamabad. Thank you very much.
 
Now, we turn our attention to West Africa where sanctions, threats, chaos, confrontation, and diplomacy, all coming to bear, Sunday, in the political crisis in Niger. Thousands took to the street to express support for the leaders of Wednesday's coup, which ousted the nation's democratically elected president.
 
In neighboring Nigeria, regional economic leaders hit Niger with a host of sanctions and threatened to use force if the coup leaders don't restore President Mohamed to power within a week.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLA AHMED TINUBU, ECOWAS CHAIR AND NIGERIAN PRESIDENT:  I want us to be strong, forceful (ph), and resolute about the survivor of Bazoum, as well as the freedom and restoration of the constitutionally elected body in Niger Republic.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  While meantime, the president of Chad met, Sunday, with coup leaders, the ousted president and a former president of Niger hoping to find a peaceful solution.
 
Niger is a former French colony, and some of the most tense demonstrations were held outside the French embassy. CNN's Larry Madowo has been monitoring developments from Nairobi.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  Angry Nigerians smashing windows of the French embassy in the capital of Niamey. Thousands of people outraged at the country's former colonial power a day after it suspended aid and financial support for Niger with the media defect (ph).
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking in a foreign language).
 
CROWD:  (Speaking in a foreign language).
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking in a foreign language).
 
MADOWO (voiceover):  Down with France, some said, condemning French support for ousted President Mohamed Bazoum. Unable to get into the heavily protected compound, a window set on fire and a French flag trashed, a common sight since Wednesday's military coup.
 
Security forces eventually deployed teargas to disperse the protesters. France warned it would retaliate immediately and in a strict manner in case of any attacks against its embassy, nationals, army, or diplomats. The (INAUDIBLE) saying on Sunday, adding that President Emmanuel Macron will not tolerate any attack against France and its interests. The military junta that ousted the West African countries democratically elected president keen to show France and the world that it has the backing of the public.
 
MAMAN SANI, PROTESTER (through translator):  We also came out to tell this little Macron from France that Niger belongs to us. It's up to us to do what we want with Niger. What we want. We deal with who we want and how we want. We reaffirm our support for the army.
 
MADOWO (voiceover):  A sea of people outside Niger's parliament denouncing France and some raising Russian flags. As anti-French sentiment is growing the country, many have warmed up to Russia.
 
CROWD:  (Speaking in a foreign language).
 
MADOWO (voiceover):  Long live Putin and long with Russia, the protesters say. Demanding that foreign armies leave the country. France has about 1,500 troops in Niger, a key ally in the fight against terrorism in the Sahel. The U.S. has about 1,000 troops in the country involved in counterterrorism operations.
 
IBRAHIM, RETAILER (through translator):  As the citizens of Niger, we are against French bases, American bases, Canadian bases, Italian bases. All the bases that are in Niger, we don't need them.
 
MADOWO (voiceover):  The head of the presidential guard, General Abdourahamane Tiani, deposed his boss and declared himself Niger's new leader on Friday. Saying, he would suspend the constitution and rule with the so-called national council for the safeguard of the homeland.
 
ZEINABOU BOUKARI, PROTESTER (through translator):  They're really brave and I support them 100 percent. We've really suffered a lot. We've suffered a lot because they are our children. A lot of blood has been shed in Niger. We want peace. We want peace.
 
MADOWO (voiceover):  In neighboring Nigeria, an emergency summit of the economic community of West African states ECOWAS. Regional leaders announced sanctions including closing borders, a travel ban, and no- fly zone, freezing assets, and a deadline. ECOWAS have given the Niger junta one week to reinstate President Bazoum or threatened to take all measures to restore his government.
 <br>[00:10:00]
 
OMAR ALIEU TOURAY, ECOWAS COMMISSION PRESIDENT:  In the event the authorities' demands are not met within one week, take all measures necessary to restore constitutional order in the Republic of Niger, such measures may include the use of force. To this effect, the chiefs of defense staff of ECOWAS are to meet immediately.
 
MADOWO (voiceover):  But many protesters in the street don't want any ECOWAS military intervention or involvement, and the military junta says, it's ready.
 
COLONEL-MAJOR AMADOU ABDRAMANE, NIGER MILITARY JUNTA CNSP (through translator):  We once again remind ECOWAS and those who wish to adventure in this of our firm determination to defend our country.
 
MADOWO (voiceover):  President Bazoum has not been seen in public since Tuesday but continues to receive calls of support from world leaders. Larry Madowo, CNN, Nairobi.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  Saudi Arabia is preparing to host an international summit to discuss a peace initiative for Ukraine. That's according to Kyiv which is expected to participate in the talks along with western powers and key developing nations like India and Brazil. Russia though will not be involved. Ukraine hasn't specified when the meetings would be held but says they're meant to unite the world around a 10-Point Peace Plan which was developed by its President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
 
While Mr. Zelenskyy says war is gradually returning to Russia, and the strikes on his territory are, "Inevitable." Well, this after the Kremlin accused Ukraine of launching a new drone attack in Moscow on Sunday. Russia says it intercepted three unmanned aerial vehicles, but a business center was damaged in the process. It happened on the same day that another drone reportedly crashed in Russia's Rostov region near the border with Ukraine.
 
Meanwhile, Moscow said it has launched attacks of its own on Sunday. According to Ukraine, Russian troops shelled a civilian area in the eastern region of Donetsk, leaving at least one person dead and five wounded.
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh has more on the strikes reported on Sunday, including the alleged drone attack in Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Russian officials say there were three drones in total, fired one, intercepted two, taken out by electronic jamming but still damage inflicted on Moscow City. A very opulent part of the Russian capital, part of the glass towers of Russia's elite. Some of that glass shattered, that's possibly as the pre-conception they had over the past months the war was something distant, not necessarily affecting the sophisticated lives in the capital.
 
We've seen those slowly bids by Ukraine who did not take direct responsibility for this. More opaque statements of how Russia's tranquil backwaters were no longer so calm. Ukraine trying to impact Russian psychology by hitting areas like this, even the Kremlin, too, is subject of a drone strike.
 
Russia's saying, nobody injured in this. But again, it is simply a taste of what Ukrainians have been experiencing over the past nearly 18 months now. Nightly strikes of -- and on parts of civilian Ukraine and Sumy in northern Ukraine, 20 injured, two killed from Russian barrage is at the same time as Moscow is being hit and even here in Zaporizhzhia City, two dead in the last 24 hours, and two injured from yet more attacks by Russia.
 
Russia targeting civilian areas, it seems, repeatedly day after day. Ukraine's President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, saying how these strikes on Moscow were a sign that the war is returning for Russian territory. But also, too, taunting gains by Ukraine in the east, near Bakhmut, and also, a slower, steadier, less publicly touted progress in the south near where I am here.
 
This counteroffensive by Ukraine moving forward, it seems, slowly. They targeted part of Russia's railway supply line, up from Crimea into Zaporizhzhia in the last 24 hours as well. That's potentially key for Russia's ability to defend the frontlines. It's urgently holding on to at the moment despite these Ukrainian advances.
 
But still, Moscow, being hit in such a way, repeatedly now it seems will have an impact on those in Russia. We're told by the Kremlin that this could be a matter of days, this war. And now, we're in its second year. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  While meantime, old Soviet imagery is being moved from an important Ukrainian memorial in Kyiv. The Motherland Monument was built during the Soviet era, and the pixie woman carrying a shield with the hammer and sickle emblem. Workers have begun cutting the laurel leaves from around the symbol. They want to replace it with a Ukrainian trident. Officials hope to have the work competed by Independence Day on August 24th.
 <br>[00:15:00]
 
The 102-meter-high Motherland Monument is one of Kyiv's most significant landmarks.
 
The U.S. State Department says its working to secure the safe return of an abducted American nurse and her child in Haiti. She is seen here with her husband and the child's father. We'll have the latest on the search, just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK:  Returning now to our top story. At least 44 people were killed, and more than 100 injured in a suspected suicide bombing at a political convention in northwestern Pakistan on Sunday.
 
Well, joining me now live from Peshawar, Pakistan is Raza Khan. He's a writer, an analyst, and a political commentator. Mr. Khan, welcome to CNN. What is behind this latest sign of Pakistan's deteriorating security situation?
 
RAZA KHAN, POLITICAL AND SECURITY ANALYST AND WRITER:  Yes, in fact, as you know that since April last year, when Former Prime Minister Imran Khan's government was changed to a no-confidence motion, there has been a political crisis in the country. And at the same time, the Talibs groups, specifically, the Pakistani Taliban of that is known as Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan or the TTP, it has been trying to launch more and more attacks, and it has been very successful in making a number of very deadly strikes.
 
So -- but, in the meanwhile, the government of Pakistan also had negotiations for peace with the TTP but they could not be successful. And -- HARRAK:  I just want -- Mr. Khan, I just want to clarify that so far,
 
 no one has claimed responsibility for the attack that we've seen today. But I want to focus now on the impacts that terrorist violence, like the one that we have seen has on upcoming national elections in Pakistan. Do you think it will discourage voters from participating? And what do you think the fallout will be on election campaigns?
 
KHAN:  Yes, the upcoming election will definitely be affected by such kind of attacks. And it would discourage the voters from going to the polls and cast their ballot for their preferred parties.
 <br>[00:20:00]
 
So, it would discourage the voters. And I think that it is a strategy on the part of the terrorist groups so -- to -- just sabotage this electoral process because it was a kind of a meeting of very important political group, that is the JUI, it's an Islamist group and it was trying to prepare for the upcoming elections, and the (INAUDIBLE) that.
 
So, it is definitely aimed at the studies in the waters. And I fear that such kind of attacks continue, that would delay the elections because the security situation would not be confusing to who the election, at least, in the -- that part of the country.
 
HARRAK:  Right. So, let me focus on the regional and the -- because the security situation in Pakistan remains so precarious. What is the fallout in the region, specifically tensions between Pakistan and the Taliban administration in Afghanistan?
 
KHAN:  Yes, the situation -- the security situation is quite precarious, as you mentioned. And as you know that the Tehrik-i- Taliban Pakistan, after some successful operations by the Pakistani military in 2016, the entire TTP relocated to Afghanistan. And when the Afghan Taliban captured the country after the withdrawal of the United States and all the international forces in 2021, so they're captured.
 
And then as the TTP or Pakistani Taliban had been helping the Afghan Taliban party in the international forces in Afghanistan, so they are very close relationship. Now, Afghan Taliban have been saying that they are not letting the one side to be used against any other country. But there's a very strong connection between the TTP and the Afghan Taliban. And whatever attacks the TTP is conducting in Pakistan, I think, it has adjacent support from somewhere within the Afghan Taliban regime.
 
HARRAK:  Right.
 
KHAN:  And it would definitely strength -- further strength relations between Pakistan and the Afghan Taliban regime.
 
HARRAK:  All right. Thank you so very much, Raza Khan. And I just want to reiterate that nobody has claimed responsibility yet for the deadly attack that we have seen up to now. Thank you so much for joining us. KHAN:  Thank you.
 
HARRAK:  The U.S. State Department says it's working to free a kidnapped American nurse and her child in Haiti. They were abducted on Thursday, according to the Christian aid organization where she works. CNN's Athena Jones has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATHENA JONES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, we know U.S. authorities are working closely with their Haitian counterparts and with U.S. government and their agency partners to try to resolve this crisis. But there's also a lot of things we don't know. It's unclear right now who was responsible for this kidnapping or whether they made any demands, whether for ransom or anything else.
 
El Roi, Haiti, which is a humanitarian organization, the Christian humanitarian organization, this nurse from New Hampshire was working for put out a statement. Here's what they said in part. Alix is a deeply compassionate and loving person who considers Haiti her home and the Haitian people her friends and family. Alix has worked tirelessly as our school and community nurse to bring relief to those who are suffering as she loves and serves the people of Haiti in the name of Jesus.
 
Now, El Roi has also said their highest priority is a safe return of this mother and her child. And they want to limit the amount of information they're sharing. We also heard from the State Department spokesperson saying that they have no higher priority other than the safety and security of U.S. citizens overseas. But this kidnapping comes at a time of growing concerns about the worsening violence in Haiti.
 
It was just two years ago this month that Then-President Jovenel Moise was assassinated by a gang, and there's been a power vacuum ever since with some gangs taking control of various different swaths of the country. The State Department has warned Americans not to travel to Haiti because of the frequency of kidnappings, crimes, civil unrest, and also the poor health infrastructure.
 
And just last week, the State Department are -- ordered all family members and non-emergency personnel of the embassy to leave the country immediately because it's so unsafe. This came after at least three days in a row of restrictions where embassy staffers and families were supposed to stay there on the embassy compound because things were so dangerous.
 <br>[00:25:00]
 
The U.N. Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, said during a recent visit to Haiti, the Haitians are trapped in a living nightmare with humanitarian conditions that are beyond appalling. Guterres went on to say, we are calling for a robust security force deployed by Member States to work hand-in-hand with the Haitian National Police to defeat and dismantled the gangs and restore security across the country.
 
But bottom line here, we're still waiting more details of the scary and dangerous situation there in Haiti. Athena Jones, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  And there's much more to come on CNN, including a closer look at British efforts to monitor and deter migrants attempting to cross the English Channel in boats. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANNOUNCER:  This is CNN. More people get their news from CNN than any other news source.
 
HARRAK:  In U.K., the government is ramping up measures to deter migrants crossing the channel from France. And a controversial new law has just passed that will include criminalizing anyone who seeks asylum there this way.
 
Well, to aid this, the country has invested millions in high tech surveillance to spot small boats. But despite this, a CNN investigation found no evidence it was used during the deadliest incident in the channel last year. CNN's Katie Polglase reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE RESEARCHER (voiceover):  It's 3:00 in the morning on the 14th of December 2022 in the middle of the English Channel. A fisherman has spotted multiple people in the water and he's trying to haul them out.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It was pitch dark. It was a very cold night, minus one, minus two. And there was a lot of screaming.
 
POLGLASE (voiceover):  In total, they rescued 31 people from the sinking vessel. Including two Afghan boys just 12 and 13 years old.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is not an area that we fish in a lot, and if we weren't there, everyone there would have probably drowned.
 
POLGLASE (voiceover):  U.K. authorities arrived later and rescued eight more. Four die in what becomes the worst migrant tragedy in the channel that year. But officials have been informed of the instant nearly an hour earlier.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Please help. Our -- we have children and family in a boat. Please, we are in the water.
 
POLGLASE (voiceover):  And just before 2:00 a.m., the boat had made a distress call here, to Utopia 56, a French migrant charity that passed it on to the front and U.K. authorities. The French Coast Guard say, the boat is undetectable on shipping radar but estimate it will shortly cross into British waters.
 <br>[00:30:00]
 
Now, CNN has found that at the time of the incident, the U.K. government had expensive A.I. technology designed to spot these boats. And knowing that the vessel was soon entering their territory, and that there were people freezing in the water, including children, they could have sent this, A TEKEVER AR5 drone, designed to detect small boats and capable of deploying a life raft. It's licensed by the U.K. government, even the British prime minister proud to show it off.
 
CNN has established it flew over the same area where the distress call was made on multiple previous journeys. It even flew the day before and after the incident, but not in the hours the vessel was sinking. Instead, it took more than an hour for the first U.K. lifeboat to arrive, in which time, a fishing crew rescued the majority on board.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We must stop the boats.
 
POLGLASE (voiceover):  This tech forms part of a campaign of deterrence and hostility by the government towards those attempting to reach British shores. Millions of pounds have been spent on A.I. cameras, trained to find rubber dinghies. Some able to see beyond U.K. waters. Drones with automatic identification abilities.
 
And while the company's tout their lifesaving capabilities, footage from this drone is also being used to identify those driving boats and prosecute them for human trafficking. A new bill will take it even further, criminalizing anyone who seeks asylum in the U.K. this way.
 
PETRA MOLNAR, HUMAN RIGHT AND MIGRATION LAWYER:  Yes, technology could very easily be used for search and rescue, for finding boats faster, for preventing these horrific disasters. But unfortunately, the reality on the ground is the opposite. It's assisting powerful actors to be able to sharpen their borders, make it more difficult for people to come. And, again, using surveillance for this kind of end.
 
POLGLASE (voiceover):  And it follows a global trend in digitizing border security.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  These towers operate 24/7, 365 -- 
 
POLGLASE (voiceover):  The same century towers made by the American tech start-up Anduril that lined the U.S.-Mexico border have recently been installed along the British coastline to identify and track boats. Another company, Sirius Insight AI whose technology is also available to the U.K. authorities insisted their tech is used for saving lives but stopped short of talking about how the government uses it.
 
MALCOLM GLAISTER, CEO, SIRIUS INSIGHT AI:  Power equipment shows any vessel that's in the U.K. territory waters, where it is and where it's going. And if that vessel is in distress, it allows the lifeboat to get to that precise location because we're tracking it.
 
POLGLASE:  And so, we've been following some of the incidents that have unfortunately led to fatalities in the channel. If we have this technology, why are people dying?
 
GLAISTER:  I don't think I can comment on those instances because of the common nature of our relationship with the home office. POLGLASE (voiceover):  The home office declined to comment on the incident of the 14th of December. In response to a freedom of information request submitted by CNN, U.K. border force said, revealing the tech's capability might aid the criminals facilitating the crossings and increase risk to life at sea. The coast guard declined to comment, citing an ongoing investigation into the incident, and a court case underway to prosecute the alleged driver of the boat.
 
A new record was set for June with nearly 4,000 people detected arriving to the U.K. But for those that do make it, they face an increasingly hostile welcome. Katie Polglase, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  And we're keeping a watch on Typhoon Khanun in the Pacific Ocean as it picks up strength. The storm was elevated to typhoon status on Sunday and is expected to make landfall on the Okinawa Island in the next 48 hours, then it's expected to move north towards China. But forecasters with the joint typhoon warning centers say it track -- its track, rather, is uncertain.
 
And China is still bearing the brunt of Doksuri, one of the strongest storms to hit the country this year. Thousands of people were forced to evacuate their homes because of intense rain and flooding. While typhoons are a common threat to the area, the lasting damage is deeply affecting residents.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK (voiceover):  Rescuers in speedboats zoom across the water in Southeastern China. It's the best and at times only way to access cities flooded by recent heavy rains. The boats navigating the tight streets, at times floating up to the front doors of homes to a very stranded residents to safer ground.
 
Officials say, over the weekend that more than 500,000 people have been evacuated from the region where a powerful storm named Doksuri made landfall as a typhoon, Friday, after battering the Philippines. It since been downgraded, but officials are warning of torrential rain and hazardous flooding for any city in its path.
 <br>[00:35:00]
 
And that includes Beijing, which has been doused with heavy showers that are expected to continue until Tuesday. Authorities have urged residents in the Chinese capital to stay indoors. And thousands of people have already been evacuated from areas with flood risk.
 
Authorities say, there could be potentially hazardous conditions, like those seen in other parts of the country. In eastern China, security camera footage captured a man caught in rushing waters on a street. A bus driver stopped to help him as debris surrounds them. But the man is eventually dragged out of the water with the help of some people passing by. In the southern part of the country, some residents are taking stock of the damage and trying to salvage what they can from their waterlogged homes. But that break may not last for long as another powerful storm could possibly make landfall in China later this week.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK (on camera):  And still to come, a Las Vegas concert turns chaotic after someone in the crowd threw a drink at rapper Cardi B. Her reaction, after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK:  Rapper Cardi B is the latest performer swept up in a dangerous trend where fans are throwing things on stage at concerts. Well, at a show in Las Vegas, Saturday, someone in the audience appeared to hit the rapper with a drink and she responded by throwing her mic into the crowd.
 
CNN's Chloe Melas breaks down what happened along with details of musicians speaking out on next year's U.S. presidential election.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER:  Cardi B was performing in Las Vegas when a concertgoer through a drink at her, it was caught on video. Cardi B responded by throwing her microphone at the fan in the audience.
 
Now, this is a growing trend of seeing concertgoers throw items on stage. And you have seen artists get severely hurt. We saw Bibi Rexha have a phone thrown at her eye recently while performing. She had to get stitches. Harry Styles, was hit in the face at a concert recently but he managed to keep going. We've had artists speak out, Tim McGraw recently to me. We've had Adele speak out while she was performing, saying that this has to stop or the way that we see live music will not be able to continue because there will have to be more safety measures put into place.
 
Now, moving on to another music story. I actually caught up with Moby. And Moby is now turning to the world of podcast. He has a podcast called "Moby Pod" with this co-host Lindsay, and they are covering all types of topics, even getting political. And he had a lot to say about Former President Donald Trump when we spoke. Take a listen.
 <br>[00:40:00]
 
MOBY, MUSICIAN, AUTHOR, ACTIVIST AND HOST, "MOBY POD":  I mean, if the options are Trump -- and I've known Trump and the Trumps for a very -- for decades, and decades, and decades. And I -- I mean, I just have to agree with almost everybody who served in Trump's cabinet, he's unfit to hold office. You know, whether it's -- and I'm just saying what Bill Barr or Rex Tillerson or John Kelly or -- like, they just keep repeating the same thing, is he is seriously mentally ill and unfit to hold office. So, that's not even a partisan opinion. That's the opinion of the people who worked with him. And I've been around him for a long time, and I have to reiterate that, like, he is a dangerous, dangerous mentally ill person. So, not to make light of mental illness but there's something actually profoundly wrong with him. So, my vote and my support will be pretty much anybody who's not Donald Trump because I don't see how our republic survives another Trump presidency.
 
MELAS:  Moby told me that, yes, there are a lot of podcasts out there. But he's excited to connect with his fans in this new medium. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  Our thanks to Chloe Melas.
 
Well, Madonna is opening up just one month after she was hospitalized in the ICU for a bacterial infection. The queen of pop shared in an Instagram post on how love from family and friends is the best medicine, and it's helping her heal. Madonna added that she feels lucky to be alive and thanked her six children for showing up for her when she was ill.
 
And finally, this hour, who says you can't wear a scarf in the summer? More than 150 dogs decked out in colorful scarves, ran a four- kilometer race with their owners through Venezuela's capital, Sunday, to raise support for animal shelters in the country. With Venezuela's economy struggling, many people have left their pets in shelters or abandoned them on the streets. Organizers of the race say, they're hoping to give those animals a better quality of life while they wait for new families.
 
All right. Thanks so much for watching. Laila Harrak. Stay tuned for World Sport. And I'll be back with more news at the top of the hour from CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[01:00:00]