Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Zelenskyy Marshals Support for Ukraine at G-7; Beijing Summons Japanese Ambassador Over Summit Talks on China; Ruling Party Wins Big in Greece; Officials: Oversold Tickets Linked to Crash at Soccer Match; Paul Whelan on His Detection: 'There Will Be an End to This'; Former Pakistani PM Imran Khan Speaks to CNN; Storm Poised for Direct Hit on Guam; Climate Activists Dump Charcoal in Rome's Trevi Fountain; NYC Mayor: 70,000 Migrants Have Come to New York; All-Private Mission Takes First Saudi Woman to Space. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired May 22, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome. I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company.
 <br>[00:00:32] 
 
Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy returns from the G-7 with pledges of military aid for his country, but he's also facing a difficult situation in Bakhmut. 
 
Elections in Greece. The ruling Conservative Party wins big, but still short of the majority needed to form a government. 
 
And as Italy's prime minister visits areas affected by flooding, climate activists protested from one of Rome's most iconic landmarks, shouting, "Our country is dying." 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Michael Holmes. 
 
HOLMES: Japan's prime minister says G-7 nations are striving to bring just and lasting peace to Ukraine as soon as possible. The group wrapped up their high-stakes summit in Japan on Sunday, which included, of course, a visit from the Ukrainian president. 
 
Volodymyr Zelenskyy, well, he headed home from Hiroshima with pledges of unwavering support and more military aid for his country. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden alone he enacted, or announced a new security assistance package worth $375 million, as the two leaders sat down for talks. 
 
Zelenskyy says now is a, quote, "crucial moment" for the fate of peace in Ukraine. He says his forces are still fighting inside the battered city of Bakhmut, which he says is not fully occupied by Russia. 
 
The Ukrainian leader says photographs of Hiroshima following the atomic bomb reminds him of Ukrainian cities like Bakhmut that have been devastated by the war. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Let me be sincere, that the pictures of ruined Hiroshima really remind me, totally remind me of Bakhmut, and other similar settlements and towns. Just the same, nothing alive left; all of the buildings have been ruined. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Now one day after claiming to have control of that bitterly- contested city, Bakhmut, the Wagner chief, Yevgeny Prigozhin, says his forces will be pulling out of Ukraine on Thursday. 
 
I want to show you now how that city has been completely decimated after all the intense fighting, with people's homes now just masses of concrete and rubble. 
 
Prigozhin says Wagner will hand over its positions to the Russian military, but there's been no response on that yet from the Russian ministry of defense. 
 
A top Ukrainian commander who visited troops on the front line near Bakhmut says his forces control what he called an insignificant part of the city, although they had made significant progress in the suburbs, and other areas immediately outside the main city area. 
 
Meanwhile, President Zelenskyy is closer to obtaining the long-desired F-16 fighter jets for Ukraine after a very eventful agenda at the G-7 summit in Hiroshima. 
 
CNN's Nic Robertson with the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Well, undoubtedly, getting agreement on the --
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): -- F-16 fighter aircraft was the single biggest take-away for President Zelenskyy at the G-7. 
 
In fairness, there was a lot of diplomatic legwork done in advance, but by virtue of having all those leaders there together, it gave a focus point for -- to bring an agreement to conclusion. 
 
When President Zelenskyy spoke at a press conference after, it was not just about the importance of the F-16 aircraft to help give the Ukrainian air force better reach, better able to tackle the threat for -- of the Russian forces, but he said that he, by virtue of being there in the room, face-to-face with the leaders, he gets better results that way.
 
So -- so bringing everything together, bringing allies and partners together, showing unity to Russia that they're unified behind Ukraine was important. But for Zelenskyy, I think just having this meeting, being there in
 
 person with so many allies is a bolster, and certainly that's what we hear on the ground here. Talked to commanders and troops at the front line, the F-16 very important for them.
 
And knowing in this very, very hard fight against Russia, a much bigger enemy, in this hard and tough fight, they know they've got allies and partners in the rest of the world that are supporting them. 
 
But I think the other takeaway from the G-7 was that President Zelenskyy was able to meet with people like the prime minister of India, the leader of Indonesia, as well, and try to break the Russian narrative of victimhood, that Russia is the victim of Western and NATO aggression. 
 
To put it plainly to these leaders and say look, Russia has invaded our territory. And this is going to be very important when President Zelenskyy is looking at these nations around the table at the United Nations, ultimately trying to get a peace deal agreed with the U.N. 
 
And for these other countries to put some kind of pressure and bring some reality to bear on Russia.
 
So the takeaway for Zelenskyy --
 
ROBERTSON: -- a big trip, a big reach around the world, a big diplomatic reach. And take away successes. When those F-16s actually arrive and are in service, not clear. But for Zelenskyy, a good trip to Japan. 
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Eastern Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Beijing and Moscow are lashing out at G-7 countries after the leaders of those countries slammed what they call China's economic coercion, and pledged new measures targeting Russia, as well. 
 
Beijing has now summoned Japan's ambassador to China, accusing Tokyo of collaborating with other countries to, quote, "smear and attack" China during the G-7. 
 
CNN's Anna Coren is following developments; joins me now live from Hong Kong. There was a lot of concern at the G-7, Anna, about Russia's war in Ukraine. But also, China's growing influence in a number of areas, and the need to mitigate exposure to China. 
 
What has been the regional reaction to what we heard in Hiroshima? 
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR/CORRESPONDENT: Well Michael, you know, China has certainly voiced its anger towards G-7 countries, in particular, the host, Japan, after summoning Japan's ambassador to China to express serious demarche, regarding discussions on China during that three-day summit in Hiroshima. 
 
China's increasing aggression, and Russia's war in Ukraine very much top of the agenda at the group of seven. 
 
Now let me read you some of that segment released by China's foreign ministry late last night following Japan's dressing down. 
 
It says, quote, "Japan, as the host of the G-7, collaborated with relevant countries to smear and attack China in the series of activities and in the joint communique." 
 
It went on to say that such activities have "grossly interfered in China's internal affairs, violated the basic principles of international law, and the spirit of the four political documents between China and Japan." 
 
Now, at the G-7 summit, Michael, the leaders of the world's richest democracies were united in their growing concern over China, stressing the need to, obviously, cooperate with the world's second largest economy, but also to counter its, quote, "malign practices and coercion in that joint communique." 
 
The U.S., as we know, views China as the most serious long-term challenge to the international order. Well, this was backed up by the British prime minister at the G-7, who said that China posed, quote, "the greatest challenge of our age" in regards to global prosperity and security. 
 
Now the leaders of the G-7, they also pledged new measures targeting Russia, to choke off its ability to finance and fuel its war in Ukraine. 
 
And as we saw, you know, that surprise visit by the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy certainly cemented leaders' resolve and commitment. 
 
The U.S. president Joe Biden, he pledged ongoing support, saying, quote, "We have Ukraine's back."
 
As you would expect, China and Russia both hit back. Russia's foreign minister slammed the Group of Seven for indulging in their own greatness with an agenda that aim to deter Russia and China, while China's foreign minister accused the G-7 leaders of hindering international peace and said that the group needed to reflect on its behavior and change course. 
 
Now Michael, it's clear that from the G-7, the world is even more polarized and divided, and that those opportunities for improving, you know, constructive dialogue between those two blocks is becoming less and less likely. 
 
HOLMES: Anna, thanks so much. Anna Coren there in Hong Kong with the latest for us. 
 
Turning our attention to Greece now, and the ruling Conservative Party has won Sunday's parliamentary election but fell short of the majority needed to form a government. 
 
With most votes counted, new democracy took a significant lead with more than 40 percent of the votes, trouncing the opposition, leftist Syriza, which got only around 20 percent. 
 
The prime minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, hailed his party's win, calling it a political earthquake. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KYRIAKOS MITSOTAKIS, GREEK PRIME MINISTER (through translator): I am proud. I am also touched as I feel the heavy responsibility that has been placed on my shoulders by such an impressive percentage. 
 <br>[00:10:04]
 
I pledge that I will work even harder in order to honor your trust. The dynamic of the result is more than clear. Citizens want a strong government with the horizon of a four-year term with bolder changes so that we can cover the lost ground that separates us from Europe even faster. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The prime minister also ruling out the possibility of trying to form a coalition. That's going to likely set the stage for a second election in about a month or so. Meanwhile, the opposition says the result was a disaster for them. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEXIS TSIPRAS, OPPOSITION SYRIZA PARTY LEADER (through translator): The election result was particularly negative for Syriza. A short while ago, I contacted Mr. Mitsotakis, and I congratulate him on his victory. Battles have wins and losses. Our collective organs will meet imminently to take stock of the result. 
 
The electoral cycle has not ended yet, in view of the fact that it's very possible there will be a second election. Therefore, we don't have the luxury of time. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And joining me now from Washington is Harris Mylonas. He is associate professor of political science at George Washington University. 
 
It's great to have you stay up and join us. The Mitsotakis administration they faced a scandal over wiretapping politicians and journalists. There was controversy over a deadly train crash. More than a third of Greeks say they can't pay their monthly bills. That's the highest number in the E.U. 
 
Why did New Democracy do so well, compared to the predictions, given all that? 
 
HARRIS MYLONAS, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OFF POLITICAL SCIENCE, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY: Thank you for having me. It's a good question. 
 
The simple -- the simplest answer I can give -- I know on TV we have to be quite quick on our answers, quick on our feet -- is that he promised stability and continuity, and heh could deliver it, given that he was already in government. 
 
It helped a lot that New Democracy was polling first for a long time, actually, all the time since it was won in 2019. So as a result, Syriza, Tsipras, Alexis Tsipras's party, couldn't really propose as the main message a victory.
 
So Syriza had to focus its campaign on how it would bring about the coalition government, or some form of a government of the losers, as it was called, at the time of the election. 
 
And that -- that setup scenario, I think, turned off a lot of voters. In fact, you know, interpret some of the general trends. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, yes. When it comes to the runoff, I mean, it's complicated. And we don't want to get into the weeds on how Greece counts its votes or their seat. 
 
But there will be new rules in place for the runoff, which would give New Democracy almost certain victory. I think. Is that how you see the runoff playing out? 
 
MYLONAS: Well, the victory or not would only be given by the voters, right? So, I think the point we can make is that if Nea Dimokratia, New Democracy, manages to have a similar -- I think that's what you meant -- if he has a similar percentage on June 25, which I think is going to be the next election date. 
 
Then, it would have, with a new electoral load that would go into effect in this next election, a new democracy will have sufficient seats in the Parliament to rule to form a one-party government, which has always been its goal. 
 
Prime Minister Mitsotakis was very clear that that was the goal from the get-go. 
 
HOLMES: I wanted to ask you, too. Mitsotakis, he's from a major political family. His father was prime minister. His sister was foreign minister. His nephew is the mayor of Athens right now. 
 
Has there been any voter disquiet over the political dynasty aspects of parts of grid politics, often the same names or families in positions of power? 
 
MYLONAS: It's true that this is an issue. Prime Minister Mitsotakis, I believe, handled this quite well in the past when he got elected for the first time in 2019. 
 
In the sense that the strategy then was to address it head-on and, as a result, it kept on coming up less and less, because in a way it was already addressed quite by the way I mean he owned it, right? 
 
It's not that he could do anything to change it, but he didn't try to evade the questions. He tackled them head-on. And in a way, the -- you know, the voters are the ones who are choosing how to evaluate that. [00:15:14]
 
The same, thing as you know, as you alluded to, that I think you're alluding to that. The Papandreou (ph) family had a similar dynasty, if you want to put it that way. 
 
So -- so it's not uncommon in Greek politics, and it's not uncommon in American politics. 
 
HOLMES: No. You're -- you're right about that. There have been Clintons, and there have been Bushes. 
 
MYLONAS: And Kennedys. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, and Kennedys. It's not just Greece. Just before we go, I want to ask you how my term number to be different for the prime minister in terms of how he governs? 
 
MYLONAS: Well, there is a reality, and there is the hopes that some of the voters are hoping that some of the liberal -- classical liberal voters of New Democracy are hoping for more liberal policies.
 
Some of the right-wing voters of New Democracy. New Democracy is a catch-all party, as most governing parties. They're hoping for a different type of policy.
 
So Kyriakos Mitsotakis will have to, you know, steer the direction, and the truth is that, given the, you know, huge victory that he delivered, I think he's going to have -- my prediction is that he's going to have more -- more opportunities to do what he actually wants to do, rather than constantly be pulled in different directions by this balancing act that I tried to sketch out in a few seconds here. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, yes, he'll have the mandate, and that will give him some freedom. 
 
Harris Mylonas, professor, I really appreciate it. Thanks so much. 
 
MYLONAS: Thank you for having me. 
 
HOLMES: All right. Well, officials investigating the deadly crash at a soccer stadium in El Salvador believe the overselling of tickets and issuing of fake tickets may have contributed to the tragedy. 
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Authorities in El Salvador are investigating the causes behind a stadium crash that killed at least a dozen people on Saturday night during a football match. 
 
The match between Alianza FC and FAS, two of the country's most popular football teams, was suspended around the 20th minute as fans attempted to enter the Cuscatlan stadium in San Salvador, the largest sports venue in the country, causing what authorities have described as a stampede. 
 
El Salvador interior minister, Juan Carlos Bidegain, said that one of the causes could be the overselling of tickets, with fans outside the venue allowed to enter the stadium without a valid ticket. 
 
The attorney general also said on Sunday that the company that manages the stadium, as well as the leaders of the two football clubs, are being investigated. 
 
For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Now the two warring sides in Sudan both voiced their commitment on Sunday to a weeklong cease-fire, raising hopes for millions of desperate civilians.
 
The Sudanese armed forces and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces have agreed to the U.S.-and-Saudi Arabia-brokered cease-fire that is set to begin Monday evening. 
 
It is hoped that the cease-fire will enable aid groups to get vital supplies through to civilians trapped by the conflict. At least 850 people have been killed, almost 3,400 wounded and millions displaced because of the fighting. 
 
And Pope Francis, on Sunday, called for the two warring parties to, quote, "set aside their weapons." 
 
Still to come here on the program, Paul Whelan, the American detained in Russia, tells CNN that he's confident the wheels are turning, as he put it, towards his release. We'll have more of that exclusive interview when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:21:10]
 
HOLMES: Paul Whelan, an American citizen detained in Russia, says he feels confident his case is a priority for the U.S. government but wishes it could be resolved faster. Here's what he told CNN in an exclusive interview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAUL WHELAN, AMERICAN DETAINED IN RUSSIA (via phone): I feel that my life shouldn't be considered less valuable or important than others who have been previously treated. And I think there are people in D.C. that feel the same way, and they're moving towards a compromise and resolution to this as quickly as they can. 
 
There will be an end to this, and that end, I hope, is coming sooner than later, but it is depressing, on a daily basis, you know, going through this. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) HOLMES: Whelan was detained in Moscow in 2018 for espionage, charges he denies. CNN Jennifer Hansler spoke with him and has our report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JENNIFER HANSLER, CNN STATE DEPARTMENT PRODUCER: Paul Whelan was actually able to watch his sister's speech before a U.N. Security Council meeting last month, that the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, chaired. 
 
And in that speech, Elizabeth Whelan called for the Russians to immediately release her brother.
 
Paul Whelan also said he was able to watch parts of President Biden's speech to the White House Correspondents Dinner, in which the U.S. president called for the release of America's wrongfully detained around the world, including Paul himself.
 
Now Whelan claims that he believes that the Russians allowed them to view these speeches, because they could spin it as propaganda of U.S. officials, quote, "begging for the release of one of their own." 
 
But for Paul Whelan himself, this was a big boost to his confidence that the U.S. was doing all that they could to secure his release. Here's what he said about seeing those public events. 
 
WHELAN (via phone): The public displays and events, such as the, you know, press corps dinner, and the U.N. visit demonstrate to, not just me, privately, but to the world that our leaders are impacted by this. And they do want me back, and they are working to try to get me home/
 
If you consider all the people and all the agencies in my four countries that are working on this, it's incredible. And I think they're going to get it done. 
 
HANSLER: Now it's important to note that Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said the U.S. has put forward a proposal to the Russians to secure Whelan's release, but the Russians have yet to engage on that proposal. 
 
Jennifer Hansler, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Former prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, is lashing out at the law-and-order situation in his country. Speaking to CNN on Sunday, Khan says there is, quote, "no rule of law," and the Pakistani government is violating the constitution and his rights. 
 
Khan has been involved in an intense standoff with the military for months now. That has deepened political instability and led to violent protests. 
 
For more, let's go to CNN's Paula Hancocks, who joins me now live from Seoul in South Korea. So, tell us more about what he told our Fareed Zakaria. PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Michael those
 
 tensions have exacerbated since a couple of weeks ago, when Imran Khan was arrested by paramilitary groups. He spoke about that with -- with Imran Khan. And also pointed out that his house in Lahore, where he is holed up at the moment, is surrounded by police, as officials claim that he is harboring, quote, "terrorists," those who started fires and who damaged property of the military and government during those protests against his arrest. 
 
Now Imran Khan has said it is simply not true that he is harboring those who have broken the law. And he also criticizes the fact that they are going to carry out military court cases against some of those who were arrested, some of his supporters. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IMRAN KHAN, FORMER PRIME MINISTER OF PAKISTAN: Everything that's being done to -- to dismantle our democracy. So right now, as we speak, over 10,000 workers have been arrested. My entire senior leadership is in jail. 
 <br>[00:25:09]
 
On Tuesday, I'm going to make an appearance for various bills in Islamabad. Eighty percent chances are that I'm going to be arrested. So, right now, there's no rule of law. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS: Imran Khan was ousted as prime minister in April of -- last June in a no-confidence vote. He blames the military chief, the army chief for instigating this, along with the current governments, and working together to try and take him out of power, pointing out that it is because of the upcoming elections and the fact that he believes that he will win those elections. 
 
Now, certainly, his popularity has increased over the past year since he was ousted from power. He does have a tremendous amount of support within Pakistan. 
 
But he was at pains to say that he's not picking himself against the very powerful military in Pakistan. That it is important that Pakistan has a strong military. But he is calling for free and fair elections. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KHAN: Well, all I know is that the last six months he has worked to remove my government. He's -- he' s openly, afterwards, in an interview decided that I was too dangerous for the country. And so my government was -- was ousted. 
 
Since then, all that I have said is that the solution to Pakistan's problems are in free and fair elections. Because that's the only thing that would bring political stability in this country. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) HANCOCKS: Now Imran Khan also went on to say that political stability is very necessary because of the financial and economic situation in Pakistan. 
 
The economy has been tanking, and Khan says the only way to try and stabilize the economy is to stabilize the political system. 
 
Now, Fareed Zakaria also spoke to him and asked him about an assassination attempt that happened last November when Imran Khan was injured. A concept that he did believe that his life was in danger. 
 
Also pointing out that he will have to go to the Islamabad high court on Tuesday to -- to answer other charges against him. And, certainly, he does have concerns for his safety -- Michael. 
 
HOLMES: All right. Thanks for the update. Paula Hancocks there in Seoul. Appreciate it.
 
All right. Quick break here. When we come back, Typhoon Mawar is slowing down and gaining strength in the Pacific. We'll tell you where it's posing the greatest threat. 
 
Also, climate activists stage a protest in one of Rome's most iconic landmarks. Details on what prompted the demonstration, when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:30:19]
 
HOLMES: Authorities in Canada are hoping cooler weather and rain showers this week will help slow the wildfires burning in Alberta. Smoke from the fires began drifting into parts of the U.S. late last week, prompting air quality alerts in several states. 
 
Canada has closed some parks and campgrounds over the Victoria Day holiday to lessen the chance of more fires being started. 
 
More than 10,000 people have been evacuated in Alberta, as nearly 3,000 firefighters battle close to 100 active fires. 
 
Typhoon Mawar is gaining strength in the Western Pacific, and it is slowing down as it heads for Guam, the outer bands already starting to impact that U.S. island territory. The typhoon currently the equivalent of a Category 2 Atlantic hurricane. 
 
Heavy rainfall, flooding, damaging winds and high surf all possible as the storm heads for shore in the days ahead. Meteorologist Britley Ritz is at the CNN Weather Center with the latest on the typhoon and its current path. 
 
Good to see you, Britley. What are you seeing out there? 
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: You, top, Michael. It is starting to strengthen quickly, as it hits that warm ocean water, and you can tell by the visible satellite that other bends in the center are really starting to billow up with the convection. Rather impressive itself as it narrows in on Guam and Rota. 
 
So we're watching this closely over the next 24 hours. Current winds, sustained around the center of below 160 kilometers per hour. Gusts of 195 kilometers per hour. And like you mentioned, Michael, it's slowing down, down to the Northwest at 15 kilometers per hour. 
 
Typhoon warnings now for Guam and Rota and tropical storm warnings for the Northern Mariana Islands. The system, pushing off to the North, Northwest very quickly, but starting to slow down, which allows it to strengthen to now a major typhoon by the time it makes landfall over the next 48 hours, coming in close to Guam. Then pushing out to sea towards the Philippines, the Northern provinces over the next hundred and 20 hours and expected to strengthen to roughly about a Category 4 for the Atlantic. 
 
Now, the system, it's starting to narrow in with the model runs, the American versus the European. I want you to pay attention to the center, and that gives us confidence on where landfall will be. 
 
Some of the strongest winds are coming in on Rota, as we move into Wednesday, 11 a.m. in the morning local time. The strongest winds in the upper right-hand quadrant. Still dealing with stronger winds in Guam, but strongest in Rota, then finally, pushing up toward the Philippines.
 
The winds themselves already extend 168 kilometers from the center for tropical storm force, and by the time we get into Wednesday, we are dealing with typhoon-force winds. 
 
So pay attention to that into Wednesday. That's when you can expect some of the strongest winds heading in, also coming into Guam by the time we work our way into Wednesday morning. And finally pushing out to sea, once we get into Saturday afternoon -- Michael.
 
HOLMES: All right, Britley. Good to see you. Britley Ritz there with the very latest for us. 
 
And now, after cutting short her trip to Japan for the G-7 summit, the Italian prime minister, Giorgia Meloni, has returned home and visited the flood-ravaged Northern region of her country on Sunday. 
 
Now residents there cleaning up, as you see, from the damage from these floods and mudslides, as well, which killed 14 people. More than 36,000 have been evacuated during the storms. And by Sunday evening, about a third of them were able to go home. 
 
Here's what the prime minister had to say about what she saw. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIORGIA MELONI, ITALIAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator): That's Italy. We can always make a strong recovery in the face of tragedy. I've seen so many young people who are there trying to help, people coming from outside the affected areas to want to be key players and participate in a moment like this. 
 
I've seen so much pride in the affected citizens. People motivated by the desire to rebuild to participate. I found it incredible. Usually, when you have these catastrophes and tragedies, there's a risk that resignation takes over everything. That is not what we found. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Meanwhile, climate activists staged a protest in Rome on Sunday to bring more awareness to extreme weather conditions, like the floods in the Northern region of Italy, which experts believe are linked to climate change. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES (voice-over): A black cloud spreads through the waters of one of Rome's most iconic landmarks as climate activists dumped charcoal into the Trevi Fountain. 
 
All seven were arrested and charged with vandalism, city officials referring to the protesters as eco vandals, calling their acts a protest of worrying escalation. And Rome's mayor calling it an absurd attack on the city's artistic heritage. 
 <br>[00:35:15]
 
The activists condemned the use of fossil fuels, pointing to the recent situation in Northern Italy, where deadly floods have displaced tens of thousands, which researchers say is a sign of the accelerating climate crisis. 
 
This latest protest comes after the same activist group dumped charcoal in the Fountain of Four Rivers in Piazza Navona in May. And in the Fontana della Barcaccia, found near the Spanish steps in April. And while the Trevi Fountain is now being cleaned, the climate crisis and the mounting anger of activists is far from over. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: The New York Mayor Eric Adams says the city has received more than 70,000 migrants in recent weeks and that 42,000 of them are still in the city's care.
 
As more asylum seekers are expected to arrive, he is calling on Congress to deal with the immigration issue and for the federal government to send migrants to cities all over the country, instead of just a few. 
 
CNN's Gloria Pazmino with more from New York. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And for several days, Mayor Eric Adams has been talking about the city of New York and needing financial intervention from the federal government. In recent weeks, he has been asking the surrounding suburbs around the city of New York to help and to share the, quote unquote, "burden" of having to provide shelter and resources to migrants that continue to arrive here in New York City. 
 
In the last several days, since the expiration of Title 42, the city has continued to see a record number of arrivals in the city every single day. According to city hall, they are seeing hundreds of people arrive per day. 
 
The city has set up the Roosevelt Hotel, what you see here behind me, as a welcome center, a place where migrants can arrive and be connected to resources and eventually be placed in a shelter while migrants figure out their next move. 
 
Now in the meantime, Mayor Eric Adams is asking the federal government to step in and for neighbors around the city of New York to help out. 
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS (D), NEW YORK CITY: If this is properly handled at the border level, this issue can be resolved while we finally get Congress to -- particularly, the Republican Party, to deal with a comprehensive immigration policy. 
 
PAZMINO: Now it's not the first time that the mayor makes this request of the federal government, and he has also clashed with his neighbors outside of the city of New York in recent weeks.
 
Some municipalities in the area have filed lawsuits, trying to stop the city from busing migrants to their suburbs, citing a lack of resources and saying that they don't have the infrastructure to help migrants. 
 
But the city has said that they also are running out of space and resources, specifically shelter capacity, continues to be a major issue here in the city as more migrants continue to arrive and many of them are in need of shelter. 
 
In New York City, Gloria Pazmino, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Still -- still to come, another crew of all private astronauts launches up to space. We'll tell you which member of the acts into mission is making history on this journey. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:40:44]
 
HOLMES: In the coming hours, a SpaceX craft will dock with the International Space Station, carrying the latest crew of all private astronauts.
 
Among them, the first Saudi woman in space. Stem-cell researcher Rayyanah Barnawi, will spend the next eight days conducting breast- cancer research before returning to Earth with the other three crew members. 
 
CNN's Carlos Suarez has more on Sunday's launch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The mission commander called it a phenomenal ride into space. The Axiom 2 mission is on its way to the International Space Station, after lifting off from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Sunday. 
 
According to Axiom Space, it will take the four-member crew 16 hours to get to the ISS as where the crew will spend about eight days. The stage one rocket booster successfully landed at Kennedy Space Center, some eight minutes after liftoff. 
 
A sonic boom was heard as the rocket landed. Two Americans and two Saudis make up the Axiom 2 crew. Commander Peggy Whitson, is a former NASA astronaut who has spent 665 days in space and served as commander of the International Space Station. 
 
She's joined by mission pilot John Shoffner. Ali Alqarni and Rayyanah Barnawi are mission specialists. Barnawi made history on
 
 Sunday, becoming the first Saudi woman in space. 
 
Carlos Suarez, CNN, Kennedy Space Center, Florida. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: And, finally, when a Taylor Swift fan missed out on tickets to the singer's popular U.S. tour, he went outside the box to attend. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVIS PERRIGO, SECURITY GUARD AT TAYLOR SWIFT CONCERT: It really was a blessing that I didn't get tickets. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Yes, that's Davis Perrigo, an accountant from Tennessee. And what he did was he got a job as a security guard at a concert venue where the singer performed. 
 
While he was working, he started singing along to the music. And videos of him have now gone viral. His singing was so passionate Taylor Swift's personal security told him at one time he needed to, quote, "take it down a notch." 
 
Thanks for spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes. WORLD SPORT coming up next, and then Laila Harrak with more news. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:37]
 
(WORLD SPORT)