Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: At Least 3 Killed, Dozens Hurt As Powerful Storm System Hits Several States; Trump Expected To Surrender Next Week Following Indictment; Republican Rivals, Leaders Rally Around Donald Trump After Indictment; Congresswoman Taylor Greene Says She'll Protest in New York City After Previously Calling for Trump Supporters Not to; Biden Visits Mississippi to See Tornado and Storm Damage; CDC Investigating Salmonella Outbreak Linked to Flour. Aired 6-7a ET

Aired April 01, 2023 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:00:29]
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: You have made it to the weekend. We are glad you're here. Good morning. Welcome to CNN This Morning. It's Saturday, April 1. I'm Victor Blackwell.
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: It's April Fool's Day. Hi, Victor. I'm Amara Walker. Thank you so much for spending a part of your Saturday with us. Here is what we are watching this morning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We don't know what's left. Oh my neighbor's house is about destroyed. My two boys are out now trying to help dig people out of their homes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: At least five people are dead and have hundreds of thousands or without power this morning. I met a tornado outbreak across several states. We are live in hard hit Kansas and tracking the threat for more severe storms as tornado watches remain in effect this morning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KENNETH COREY, FORMER NYPD CHIEF OF DEPARTMENT: The challenge for the NYPD is going to be protecting everybody's first amendment right, allowing everybody to have their voice heard. And to do so in a way that keeps the peace.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: New York City is preparing for President Trump's first court appearance after he was indicted by Manhattan grand jury what we're learning about the charges and how this historic moment is expected to play out. WALKER: We're following a developing story out of Rome Pope Francis out of the hospital after being treated for a respiratory infection. His words to well-wishers following his release.
 
BLACKWELL: And an undefeated season comes to an end and one team mountain epic comeback. Coy Wire standing by live in Houston with highlights.
 
We begin with the severe weather ripping through the middle part of the country. Look at this. This is across seven states Friday afternoon with more than 50 tornadoes reported. At least five people are dead and dozens more are injured.
 
In Illinois, 200 people were inside the Apollo Theater in Belvedere when the roof collapsed. First responders arrived in minutes to what they are describing as absolute chaos one person was killed, dozens of people had to be pulled to safety.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF SHANE WOODY, BELVIDERE POLICE: When officers are first on the scene when the fire department first responders get here, they do the best they can to control the chaos as much as possible. But ultimately you know we go in and ultimately try and find people and save as many people as we possibly can.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: This small town of Wynne, Arkansas was basically cut in half by the damage according to the town's mayor, and apparent twister carved out a large swath of damage as you can see splintering homes and ripping off roofs of buildings. Two people there have died.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Here a lot of commotion and stuff didn't it was just over. I go outside and it's crazy as people got blood all over their faces.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: Gosh, another person is dead 100 miles west and Little Rock. The damage is extensive after a twist or touchdown there. The National Guard has been deployed to help.
 
BLACKWELL: Now, the threat of severe weather is not over. CNN meteorologist Britley Ritz is tracking it from the weather center. Several states are at risk this morning. Talk us through it.
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Absolutely. And over the last 24 hours we've had over 450 reports from Minneapolis all the way down into Texas and all of this is going to track eastward. This was a true tornado outbreak, definition of that six to 10 tornadoes with one system. We had 57 starting on Friday and all of that pushes eastward.
 
There's that area of low pressure centralized over the Great Lakes. The cold front out ahead of it still dealing with the threat of severe storms across the Tennessee Valley back into the southeast tornado watches in effect for eastern Tennessee back into North and Central Alabama until 7:00 Central time, 8:00 Central time for Northwest Georgia, and again that tornado threat still resides.
 
In fact, we have one tornado warning in place for Southeast Tennessee. The areas that you're seeing highlighted in orange tornado warnings will lead or rather severe thunderstorm warnings where we'll have guns -- wind gusts over 58 miles per hour times.
 
Areas highlighted in yellow, that's what we'll have the best threat for severe weather today. Later this afternoon and again into the evening across the Northeast. That air area includes places like Philadelphia up into Syracuse back into Pittsburgh, a few tornadoes are possible. These are areas that are most vulnerable for that tornado threat.
 <br>[06:05:00]
 
More of a wind threat, though that is our biggest concern for the Northeast back into parts of the southeast where we're seeing areas in yellow there. The timeframe expect that to pop up around five, six o'clock into the evening, especially across the Northeast for that tornado threat. Victor, Amara.
 
BLACKWELL: All right, Britley Ritz watching it for us. Thanks so much. Now let's go to meteorologist Derek Van Dam. He is in one of the hardest hit areas. They're in Arkansas. Derek, what are you seeing?
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, Victor, when we approached this town late last night, we weren't ready for the destruction of scope and the magnitude of the destruction that we were about to witness. Quoting what the mayor had said from Wynne, Arkansas it's like the tornado or the twist or literally split the town in half.
 
And where we find ourselves this morning is within that destructive path, one side of the town completely unharmed by this tornado the other side as well but right down the middle. Unfortunately, leaving this path of destruction, a deadly path of destruction, we have to confirm fatalities. There were search and rescue operations ongoing throughout the middle of the night.
 
And I want to just set the scene show you where we are. This is the Wynne High School and you're looking at an auditorium this is some sort of pickup or drop off lane for students who attend this particular school. Look at the shrapnel the roof completely collapsed in on itself.
 
And if we take the aerial shots take us more of a bird's eye view, you can almost see that path that tore the town in half, quite literally ripping the turf off of the football field as if the Vortex the actual sucking power from the middle of the tornado took everything in its path and threw it strung up to the sides and literally snapping power poles toppling trees moving houses off of their foundations, if not completely destroying them, scattering them across the neighborhoods here. And I want to show you what we filmed last night because there was active search and rescue operations that were taking place. We spoke to some of the search and rescue first responders and they were going house to house to house checking to see if there was anyone inside and the way that they confirmed that no one was indeed indoors or there was no immediate help, as they would spray paint a green X on the side of the building.
 
All too familiar sight been covering natural disasters for years, we see that it's not something we want to witness. But it's an honest part of the story here when we start talking about this type of catastrophic damage. Victor. Amara. 
 
BLACKWELL: And we've seen this damage for several days now across several parts of this country with these really strong tornadoes passing through and the threat. The threat continues as we heard from Britley. Derek Van Dam for us there, we'll check back. Thanks so much.
 
Donald Trump is expected to travel to New York on Monday and then voluntarily surrender the next day to the Manhattan district attorney. It will be a first in U.S. history for former president. As you might expect, security is tight in and around the courthouse ahead of Tuesday's arraignment. That's when we expect that the lengthy indictment against the former president will be unsealed.
 
WALKER: And as you can imagine, this will not be like a routine court appearance. The fact that the former president is also a current candidate for 2024 with his own secret service detail makes this a much more complicated. For a preview of what we expect next week, here is CNN's Jessica Schneider.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What are the charges against President Donald Trump?
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): And historic court date set for former President Donald Trump on Tuesday in Manhattan, where District Attorney Alvin Bragg has brought an indictment against him.
 
Trump is planning to leave his Mar-a-Lago estate on Monday for New York. And then on Tuesday, authorities will take his mug shot and fingerprints before escorting him to his arraignment. NYPD and Secret Service already working together to bolster security at the courthouse as they track any threats and possible protests.
 
The indictments still under seal styled the people of the state of New York against Donald J. Trump. CNN learning the grand jury voted to charge him with more than 30 counts related to business fraud after hearing from an unidentified witness for about 30 minutes Thursday.
 
MICHAEL COHEN, TESTIFIED TO GRAND JURY THAT INCDICTED TRUMP: I am a convicted felon and disbarred lawyer, but I also brought the documents. There's plenty of testimony corroborating testimony to go around. SCHNEIDER: Former Trump fixer Michael Cohen met with prosecutors and testified to the grand jury on multiple occasions in this year's long investigation.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Raise your right hand.
 
SCHNEIDER: Cohen was convicted on federal charges and sentenced to three years in prison in part for his role paying off porn star Stormy Daniels to keep her quiet in the lead up to the 2016 election about her alleged affair with Donald Trump.
 
CLARK BREWSTER, STORMY DANIELS ATTORNEY: It's a fight against his rejection of truth and his manufacturing of stories that really motivated her to try to cooperate anyway certainly way to get the truth out.
 <br>[06:10:00]
 
SCHNEIDER: Trump denies the affair and any wrongdoing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, did you know about the $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels?
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: No.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Then why -- why did Michael Cohen make this, if there was no truth to her allegations?
 
TRUMP: Well, you have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael's my attorney and you'll have to ask Michael.
 
SCHNEIDER: Cohen though admits to writing the $130,000 check and claims he was reimbursed by the Trump Organization. That reimbursement and the way Trump accounted for it appears to be at the heart of the case against Trump.
 
COHEN: For Donald since we're talking about convicted felons. See on Tuesday, pal.
 
SCHNEIDER: Sources tell CNN the grand jury also heard testimony about a catch and kill scheme to bury a story about another alleged Trump affair with former Playboy Playmate of the Year Karen McDougal. Trump's longtime friend and then Chairman of the National Enquirer's parent company, David Pecker is believed to have orchestrated that $150,000 payment. Pecker testified before the grand jury Monday. Trump also denies any affair with McDougal. Trump's lawyers are now vowing to fight saying they will move to get all charges dismissed before any trial.
 
JOE TACOPINA, TRUMP DEFENSE ATTORNEY: There's no crime. I don't know if it's going to make the trial because we have substantial legal challenges that we have to front before we get to that point.
 
SCHNEIDER (on camera): CNN has been digging into who this last witness was Thursday before the grand jury voted to indict Trump. Of course, a lot more could become clearer as this case progresses. And we'll also see how strong this case might be after the indictment is unsealed likely Tuesday at the arraignment.
 
In the meantime, former Attorney General Bill Barr is the latest now speaking out joining that chorus of Republicans to say that this is all a political hit job and a very weak case. Notably though no one has seen the exact charges or any of this evidence. Victor and Amara.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALKER: All right, Jessica Schneider, thank you for that. Let's get some perspective from former federal prosecutor Michael Zeldin. Good morning to Michael. Look, you just heard there from Jessica Schneider. We don't know what the charges are. We don't know what the evidence is. The indictment is under seal at least until Tuesday when Trump will be arraigned in New York. Well, we know according to sources that there are more than 30 charges in this indictment.
 
Do you believe that all of these charges will have to do with the hush money payments? Or do you think there's more there?
 
MICHAEL ZELDIN, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: Well, that remains to be seen. But if you look at the facts of the case, as we know them in the public domain, Trump is alleged to have authorized $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels. He then repaid Michael Cohen who made that original $130,000 loan in 10 or 12 installments, calling them legal fees.
 
So, each of those installments is a false record on the business records of the company. So you have in each of those cases, one count, two counts, three counts, it's really one bundle of activity, but they break it down in these cases, by each payment being a separate count.
 
So you can get that easily to 30 if you have 10 false statements and they're all misdemeanors, then you have 10 false statements, which are designed to evade FEC, Federal Election Commission reports, that's 10 more charges, if those same 10 are then made to evade tax requirements, that's 30 charges. And it's really just one scheme, just, you know, sort of broken down into these bite sized pieces.
 
WALKER: And if such a misdemeanor is used to cover up a crime, then that can amount to a felony, correct?
 
ZELDIN: That's right. So the theory would be that each of these 10 misdemeanors become 10 felonies, if they were done in furtherance of a tax violation or in furtherance of an election law violation.
 
WALKER: Got it. So Trump's Attorney, Michael, says that he won't accept a plea deal and that he's gearing up for a fight. Let's listen to that first.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TACOPINA: You know, President Trump will not take a plea deal in this case, it's not going to happen. There's no crime. I don't know if it's going to make the trial because we have substantial legal challenges that we have to front before we get to that point.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) WALKER: We also heard from his attorney yesterday saying that they're going to file motions to get these charges dismissed. I mean, what are the chances of that?
 
ZELDIN: Well, on the question of whether these misdemeanor violations become a felony when they are undertaken to evade federal campaign finance laws, I think there's a argument there, and I think that Trump's lawyer is right to say we will file motions to challenge that theory.
 
I don't think they have much of a theory with respect to the individual misdemeanor charges for the false entries on the business records of the company. And then I think if Trump took tax deductions for those payments, which he called legal fees, which really warrant legal fees then that's a pretty straightforward tax case.
 <br>[06:15:05]
 
So, he has some arguments on some aspects of this, but I don't think he's going to get this thing dismissed outright before trial.
 
WALKER: I want to show you The Washington Post's editorial board and this opinion piece. The headline reads the Trump indictment is a poor test case for prosecuting a former president. And, Michael, I'm sure you're aware, you know, several legal experts have questioned why bring these charges against Trump first, to set this really ground shaking precedent, right, when there are more serious ones that he's facing that have to do with protecting our democracy. Where do you stand on that?
 
ZELDIN: Well, I've not been a gigantic fan of this case. I thought that there were holes in it, as we've just discussed that making misdemeanors into felonies. But really what we're talking about here is accountability.
 
And, yes, he's a former president. But these actions weren't taken in his capacity as President. These were taken in his capacity as a private citizen, who, like anybody else needs to be held accountable. So whether it's a strong case or a weak case, whether it should be the first case, or the second case, I think the issue that the prosecutors have here is, should we hold him accountable? How should we hold him accountable?
 
And because we have statute of limitations, issues, in all likelihood, we've got to move forward as the law and facts require us to so maybe it's not the strongest, but that really shouldn't necessarily be the determining factor by a prosecutor in deciding when to charge.
 
WALKER: Michael Zeldin, appreciate it as always, thank you.
 
ZELDIN: My pleasure.
 
WALKER: Well, New York's mayor says the city has seen no credible security threats, but it remains vigilant to possible protests and unrest. The courthouse is now under 24/7 blanket security. BLACKWELL: And the floor where all this will happen has been sealed off from the public. It'll stay that way until Tuesday's arraignment. CNN Shimon Prokupecz reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): With an unprecedented indictment comes immense security challenges. The NYPD along with court officers, U.S. Marshals and the United States Secret Service are running through logistics of how Tuesday's historic arraignment of the former president will go down.
 
Tonight law enforcement sources telling CNN officials are conducting a dry run of Trump's movements, including his motorcade route to the courthouse in downtown Manhattan, where he is expected to be arraigned Tuesday afternoon. How he will get inside the courtroom flanked by Secret Service.
 
And what will the arrest process look like? Will he be treated like any other defendant? The former president expected to be fingerprinted and photographed for a mug shot. It's a massive effort starting when Trump arrives by plane Monday securing Trump Tower, the court and the motorcade route.
 
KENNETH COREY, FORMER NYPD CHIEF OF DEPARTMENT: In this case, though, where you have a former president and certainly a president with his larger following as former President Trump, there's a lot of unique concerns that are going to come into play. I think that the bigger unknown here is going to come in the form of protests or potential protests.
 
PROKUPECZ: Officials are also bracing for protests after Trump urged his supporters to protest his arrest when news of the indictment reportedly neared. So far, the mayor's office says there are no credible threats to the city. And out of an abundance of caution. Every member of the NYPD some 35,000 officers are reporting for duty in uniform and prepared for mobilization.
 
COREY: The challenge for the NYPD is going to be protecting everybody's first amendment right, allowing everybody to have their voice heard. And to do so in a way that keeps the peace.
 
PROKUPECZ: The big question will the public see images of Trump as he enters the court where many of his associates have already passed?
 
PROKUPECZ (on camera): Amara and Victor, we've now learned that there actually will be a camera on the 15th floor where the former president is expected to walk through that floor on the 15th floor and then go inside the courtroom. So perhaps we will capture some of his movement.
 
And behind me here is where we right now think the President will surrender to doors that he will walk through, as he turns himself in to the Manhattan DA's office on Tuesday. We're still waiting on word on exactly the security plans and what's going to take place. But security here already has been heightened as folks here anticipate his arrival on Tuesday. Amara, Victor. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLACKWELL: All right, Shimon Prokupecz reporting for us thanks so much. And key House Republicans are now lining up to slam the Manhattan DA and defend the president. But there are some powerful members of the GOP who have so far not come to the former president's defense. The political reaction to Trump's indictment, that's ahead.
 <br>[06:20:00]
 
WALKER: Funeral services will be held today for two more of the victims in that Tennessee School shooting earlier this week. The tributes coming in from well-wishers, that's coming up.
 
BLACKWELL: Pope Francis is out of the hospital after being treated for a respiratory infection. What he had to say to reporters as he headed back to the Vatican.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: We are following the reaction is to this week's historic indictment of Donald Trump the first time ever a former president has been criminally charged.
 
BLACKWELL: And the charges against Trump have not been made public but that's not stopping some Republicans in Congress from lining up to defend him. CNNs Manu Raju has more on the GOP response.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CORESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It didn't take long for many Republicans to rise to Donald Trump's defense.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I've said from day one this is a political stunt.
 
RAJU: Even before seeing the evidence attacking Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg's case against the former president.
 <br>[06:25:03]
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER U.S. PRESIDET: I think the unprecedented indictment of a former president of the United States on a campaign finance issue is an outrage. The message that this sends to the wider world is a terrible message about the American justice system.
 
RAJU: And the Speaker of the House Kevin McCarthy warning that Bragg would be held to account. Today, Bragg's offense defended the probe, sending a scathing letter to three House Republican chairman who have sought his testimony and internal records, accusing them of doing Trump's bidding and writing as committee chairman, you could use the stature of your office to denounce these attacks, and urged respect for the fairness of our justice system, and for the work of the impartial grand jury.
 
Sources say Trump is expected to be accused of falsifying business records to cover up 2016 payments to adult film actress Stormy Daniels to keep quiet allegations of an extramarital affair before the election.
 
RAJU (on camera): Does that underlying conduct concern you?
 
REP. BARRY MOORE (R-AL): No.
 
RAJU (voice-over): Indeed, one congressman claimed that the prosecutor could have indicted the ham sandwiches he was handing out on Capitol Hill.
 
MOORE: So I know how to spot a pile of garbage and this thing looks like a pile of garbage.
 
RAJU: Even without seeing the evidence here certainly is innocent?
 
MOORE: I'm not certain of anything except this. This is the first time in the history of the country we've indicted the president. And I think that's a concern.
 
RAJU: Top Republicans agree, despite not seeing the charges.
 
RAJU (on camera): You don't know what the charges are against from the former president?
 
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH) JUDICIARY CHAIRMAN: We're going on what you guys have told us. That's all been reported.
 
RAJU: And you're jumping to conclusions. I mean, he might have broken the law. Is that concern you?
 
JORDAN: We don't think President Trump broke the law at all.
 
RAJU (voice-over): But there has been silence from Senate GOP Leader Mitch McConnell and his number two John Thune underscoring the party's divisions over Trump, who told CNN earlier there were legitimate questions about Bragg, he would not align himself with the House GOP.
 
RAJU (on camera): Do you support House Republican efforts to call Alvin Bragg up here and get him to testify?
 
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): I'm not going to get into what the House is doing there.
 
RAJU: Some members of Senator McConnell's leadership team did come out and criticize the prosecutor that includes Senator John Cornyn of Texas and Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming Cornyn, Barrasso, and John Thune all seen as potential successors to Mitch McConnell down the line.
 
Now, there was also some Republicans who took a different tone and urged Republicans and Democrats to look at the evidence first before forming a conclusion about what happened here that senator, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, one of the senators who voted to convict Donald Trump in his second impeachment trial. She said that while everyone deserves a fair legal process, people should take their time and not rush to judgment, as many on Capitol Hill already have. Victor, Amara. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLACKWELL: Manu Raju, thank you. Let's dig deeper now with POLITICO White House reporter Daniel Lippman. Daniel, good to see you. We heard a bit of Manu's interview with Congressman Barry Moore. Let's listen to a little more because he goes after the Manhattan DA album break here.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Well, what about just the underlying issue here, which is sounds like it's can falsifying business records to cover up a an extramarital affair with an adult film actress? Does that underlying conduct concern?
 
MOORE: No, I mean, did it concern me about when Bill Clinton that it will Paula Jones. I mean, that's the problem with this. They have weaponized the DOJ, the impeachment process, the Russian collusion, the spying on campaigns, so much has been done to this man that fell on that, that we found out he didn't do anything wrong, that now it falls on deaf ears. So it looks politically motivated.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: He says it's politically motivated. We're hearing from a lot of Republicans slamming Alvin Bragg. Not everyone is also going to the step of defending the former president because there is a distinction here. What's the breakdown we're seeing from Republicans on Capitol Hill?
 
DANIEL LIPPMAN, WHITE HOUSE REPORTER, POLITICO: I think the breakdown is the usual Trump loyalists are many in the artillery and they're saying, Hey, this is a political prosecution -- persecution, that this would not happen unless he was a current candidate to run in 2024, and that he was a former president who divided the country.
 
But then you have Republicans like Mitch McConnell and John Thune who are pretty silent and McConnell of course, not a huge surprise because remember, Trump has attacked his own wife using racist language, Elaine Chao, and Trump's and McConnell's relationship totally severed. And last couple of years. McConnell, what didn't want anything to do with the January 6 matter.
 
BLACKWELL: Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene says that she's going to be in New York to protest Trump's indictment. Earlier this month though she said that there would not be a need for protests. She pushed back on calls for protests. Is there any clear reason for this reversal?
 
LIPPMAN: Well, she hasn't addressed the reversal but she's in close communication with former President Trump, and so, I'm sure that she was talking to him this week, and Trump has been talking to his key congressional allies, and if Trump said, you know, jump, she would say how high? And so, I think she is basically doing what he wants her to do in this scenario. I don't think most congressmen want to be out there on the -- on the Manhattan courthouse steps with Trump supporters. 
 
And we don't even know how many people are going to show up. Look what happened to all the people who stormed the capital in January 6th, they received stiff penalty term penalties in the justice system, and they lost jobs and marriages. And so, there's a lot of Trump fans who are willing to give money, but they're not willing to basically stick their necks out again, because they could face huge consequences like in January 6th. 
 
BLACKWELL:  That's an interesting point, because several months ago, I think it was last Summer, Senator Lindsey Graham said that there would be riots in the streets if there was some prosecution of the former president. Former President Trump has himself said that, there would be violence, now we hope there is none. 
 
We know that New York City is preparing for protests next week, but thus far, there's been a pretty muted response from Republican voters. They're certainly giving money, but we're not seeing these massive protests that Graham and Trump and others expected, or at least said would come. 
 
LIPPMAN:  Yes, I think some of what they were saying was pretty a pure PR that they wanted to basically avoid an indictment, because they were warning of death and destruction. And so, I think most Americans, they are not -- you know, they want to focus on their own lives, and they're taking their kids to soccer and, you know, feeding their families and working harder at their jobs. 
 
They are not interested in being a political pawn. And so, you only have the true die-hards who were threatening Alvin Bragg, and are willing to, you know, get in front of, you know, help Trump physically too. I think most Americans want to focus on their own lives and dismiss this. And do they have their own opinions on whether this is a good thing or a bad thing? But they don't want to get involved personally. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Or if it matters at all. I mean, it could have been just a scare tactic to try to avoid the indictment. Beyond the tweets and the accusations and any scare tactics, what should we expect from Speaker McCarthy, house Republicans? Officially, Alvin Bragg has pushed back against this idea of coming to testify before these house committees.
 
But will this influence investigations into Trump or investigations into Biden in the house for that matter? 
 
LIPPMAN:  I don't think it will influence those investigations that much. They were going to do that no matter what. And so even if Alvin Bragg didn't file these charges or get a grand jury to agree to them, then we would be seeing investigations into Hunter Biden's art, and any, you know, shady deals that Joe Biden has made. 
 
And so, I think it's a lot of political posturing. McCarthy wants to be seen as very pro Trump, I'm also kind of curious how this case will affect the other investigations into Trump's conduct in Georgia and in D.C., whether it's going to put a damper on that or whether we're going to see a lot more charges in the next few months. That's a real question. 
 
BLACKWELL:  All right, Daniel Lippman, thanks so much. 
 
LIPPMAN:  Thanks Victor. 
 
WALKER:  Well, today, loved ones will say their goodbyes to two more victims of this week's Nashville school shooting. We're going to have the details on the funeral's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:35:00] 
 
BLACKWELL:  Top stories now. The state of Mississippi is preparing for more severe weather today as a community of Rolling Fork is still reeling from last week's devastating tornado outbreak. President Biden and the first lady, they toured the damage yesterday, they got an update on how recovery efforts are going. The president promised federal support for as long as it is needed. 
 
WALKER:  The CDC is investigating a salmonella outbreak linked to flower a dozen illnesses, including three hospitalizations have been reported in connection to the outbreak. The CDC says the scale of the outbreak is likely much larger. Most of the patients claims -- claimed to have eaten raw dough or butter in the week before falling ill. 
 
BLACKWELL:  NATO is the latest organization to ban staffers from downloading TikTok on NATO-provided devices. The ban is now official according to sources, but TikTok was not really usable before because of internal tech restrictions. NATO joins a long list of other organizations and governments banning the Chinese own app, including the U.S., the U.K. European parliament. 
 
It's all prompted by concerns that the Chinese government could have access to user's data through its Chinese parent company, ByteDance.
 
WALKER:  Later today, two more funerals will be held for victims killed during this week's mass shooting in Nashville at a private Christian school. 
 
BLACKWELL:  The first funeral for nine-year-old Evelyn Dickhaus was held yesterday. Here's CNN's Carlos Suarez. 
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Victor and Amara, as you can imagine, this community is still grieving days after the shooting, and we're talking about six funeral services over the next week. The first funeral service was for nine-year-old Evelyn Dickhaus. Family, friends and loved ones were seen entering and leaving the service on Friday. 
 
We're told the private service lasted about an hour, the pastor at the church here said that here in Nashville, we know that music heals. So there was a lot of music and obituary for Dickhaus really captured her spirit. She was described as being a quote, "beacon of joy to her family, someone whose faith was pure and her prayers were sincere."
 <br>[06:40:00] On Saturday, there will be two more funeral services. The first will
 
 be for nine-year-old Hallie Scruggs. Her father is the lead pastor at the school's church. And in 9-1-1 calls that were released on Thursday, the father is heard telling a 9-1-1 dispatcher that he'd heard there was a shooting at the school. Now, at no point during that call, does it seem that the father knew his daughter had been shot.
 
The other funeral service that will take place on Saturday will be for 61-year-old Cynthia Peak, she was a beloved substitute teacher, Tennessee Governor Bill Lee said his wife, Maria, was best friends with Peak. The remaining funeral services will take place through Wednesday. Victor and Amara.   
 
BLACKWELL:  Carlos, thank you. Pope Francis is now out of the hospital after spending the past few days receiving medical treatment. CNN spoke with him after he was discharged. Hear what he had to say. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:45:00]
 
BLACKWELL:  Pope Francis has been released from the hospital today after about bronchitis just in time for Palm Sunday tomorrow. 
 
WALKER:  Yes, the 86-year-old pontiff was admitted to Rome's Gemelli Hospital on Wednesday after complaining of breathing problems, and he was given an antibiotics infusion. CNN Vatican correspondent Delia Gallagher is in Rome. Hi, Delia. So I hear you spoke with the pope outside the hospital this morning. What did he say? 
 
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, you know, Victor and Amara, as the pope was leaving here at the entrance, he stopped the car and got out, and he thanked journalists for their work. I asked him how he was feeling? He said, still alive. Typical Francis likes to joke. I asked him if he had been afraid on Wednesday with his breathing difficulties, he told another joke about a man who said I didn't see death, but I saw it   coming, and it's ugly. 
 
So that's difficult. Francis trying to deflect questions, but it was also a moment where he met with some of the public. There was a couple there, very poignant moment, they had just lost their daughter, Angelica, last night, and he prayed with them and comforted them, signed a cast of another young boy who had broken his arm. 
 
And of course, we know he was also busy during his stay here in the hospital yesterday, visiting the children's oncology unit, bringing them Easter eggs and rosaries, and even managed to baptize a newborn baby boy. So the good news for the pope is he's back on his feet. He has gone back to the Vatican. 
 
He also confirmed to us that he will be present tomorrow, and he will be speaking, not saying the mass, but he will be there. His voice is a little bit soft as you would imagine somebody who's just getting over bronchitis, but he certainly looks strong and in good spirits, we'll see now how this goes, is the busiest week coming up for Easter week. A lot of services happening here at the Vatican, Pope is expected to
 
 be at all of them, so we'll see starting tomorrow, because the spotlight is back on his health. He has a knee issue, he has mobility issues, but now we're looking at his speaking and his breathing. But certainly, from just an hour ago, having seen him right up close, he looks in good spirits. Victor, Amara? 
 
WALKER:  Great to hear, hope his health holds up. Thank you so much, Delia Gallagher. Well, and then there were two. The Women's Basketball National Championship is now set after a pair of thrillers on the hardwood. We're going to show you how a pair of underdogs rose to the challenge to make the final. 
 
And a quick programming note. It started with the disappearance of 20 people from a small town in Oregon, and ended with the largest suicide on U.S. soil, changing the face of new age religion forever. "HEAVEN'S GATE: THE CULT OF CULTS" airs tomorrow at 10:00 on CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:50:00] 
 
WALKER:  Final four weekend is here and it started with a bang and an undefeated season up in smoke. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes, one school will be able to call itself a national champ for the first time ever tomorrow. But Iowa and South Carolina last night had all the makings of a heavyweight title bout. The unstoppable Caitlin Clark and her Hawkeyes taking on the undefeated Gamecocks and Aliyah Boston, a battle of the last two national players of the year in front of a sold-out crowd in Dallas. 
 
In the end, it was the 2023 edition of who came out on top. Clark was lights out all night, setting a national semifinal record, scoring 41 points for a second straight game, Aliyah Boston had just 8 as Iowa holds on to win 77-73, snapping South Carolina's 42-game win streak. The Hawkeyes heading to the national championship for the first time in team history. 
 
WALKER:  Very cool. Well, earlier, LSU put an end to their final four curse? They were 0-5 all time entering the night, but at 22-3 run lead by Angel Reese and Alexis Morris in the fourth quarter against Virginia Tech, got the job done. Hall of Fame Coach Kim Mulkey, the stylish coach, very stylish, taking the Tigers to the title game in her second season in Baton Rouge. Iowa and LSU tip off tomorrow at 3:30 Eastern. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Come on sleeves, and in this week's difference makers, Coy Wire spoke to the four coaches in the men's final four.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JIM LARRANAGA, HEAD COACH, UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI HURRICANES MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM:  I tell everybody, a leader is someone who has to create a vision, a crystal clear picture of what you want your team to accomplish. Then you have to empower them. You've got to motivate them, inspire them to reach far beyond what they think they can accomplish. And we've done that this year. 
 
DAN HURLEY, HEAD COACH, UCONN HUSKIES MEN'S TEAM, UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT:  I just think, you know, somebody that invests time and energy in someone else, and tries to bring out the best in them, that they allow me to coach them and push them to higher levels of performance and habits, because they know I love them, and I show them how much I love them by how much time I spend with them and, yes, I think that's the key to all the -- 
 
DUSTY MAY, HEAD COACH, FLORIDA ATLANTIC:  We serve each other every single day, and our staff serves you guys, all you have to do is compete, and that would be more than enough. It allows us to share what we're about and who we are as people, because our guys, it's a throwback team, they're selfless, they put each other ahead of themselves. And those are things in today's society, they're not common. 
 
BRIAN DUTCHER, HEAD COACH, SAN DIEGO STATE MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM:  We have a team full of student athletes. We have seven guys on the roster in the business school at San Diego State. They're all either pursuing undergraduate degrees or four or five of them graduate degrees. And so, this is what you want college athletes, you want kids that are good citizens, that are good students and then play a high level of basketball, and that's what we do. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BLACKWELL:  We'll check in with Coy Wire a little later this morning. But for now, another deadly tornado outbreak, at least five people killed, dozens injured after a wave of twisters hit the middle part of the country. 
 <br>[06:55:00] 
 
The latest coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
WALKER:  Hi everyone, good morning, welcome to CNN this morning, it is Saturday, April 1st on, I'm Amara Walker.
 
BLACKWELL:  I'm Victor Blackwell. Last hour, you noted that it's April Fool's Day, I'm wondering if there's something coming my way, I'll watch out for that -- 
 
WALKER:  Yes, you better be careful. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes, all right. Here's what else we're watching this morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We don't know what's left. All my neighbors' house is about destroyed. My two boys are out now trying to help dig people out of their homes.