Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Harris Making Final Address in Washington; Trump Back in Pennsylvania; Harris and Trump Targets Battlegrounds; Republican's Big Money TV Advertising Push; Lebanon Reports Highest Daily Death Toll; Hezbollah Names Naim Qassem as New Leader; Israel Bans UNRWA in Israel; Northern Gaza Airstrike Kills at least 93; N. Korean Troops Inside Ukraine; Bezos Defending His Decision; Washington Post Facing Backlash; Taiwan Braces for Storm; SoftBank CEO Says Future of A.I. is Much Bigger Than Current Market Valuations Suggest; Cubans Without Clean Water; Dodgers Just One Win Away from World Series. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 29, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TERI GARR, ACTRESS:  -- just, I'm perfectly fine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  It's a role for which she was nominated for an Academy Award. But under Garr's sometimes wacky wit, there was serious 
 
 talent. She will be missed. May her memory be a blessing.
 
The news continues on CNN with one Mr. Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room. I will see you tomorrow. Only six days until Election Day tomorrow. I'll 
 
 see you then.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, "First Move":  It's 6:00 a.m. in Taipei, 7:00 a.m. in Seoul, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move." As always, here's today's need to know. Campaign Countdown. Kamala Harris making her final major address in 
 
 Washington. While Trump's back in Pennsylvania, seven days out from the U.S. election. Bezos backlash, the owner of The Washington Post defends its 
 
 decision not to endorse a presidential candidate. Soldiers swindle. Kim Jong Un, keeping North Koreans in the dark over his decision to send troops 
 
 to Russia, according to the South. And Dodger's Delight. Shohei Ohtani now just one win away from a World Series sweep against the New York Yankees. 
 
 All that and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris is about to make a major speech in Washington, D.C. as the race for the presidency reaches its final 
 
 days. The event set to take place at the Ellipse, the same location, incidentally, where Donald Trump rallied his supporters before the Capitol 
 
 insurrection. Harris is expected to contrast their two visions. A preview of her address has the VP saying she will welcome disagreement.
 
Trump, meanwhile, appearing in Pennsylvania, which, by the way, has a significant number of residents from Puerto Rico. Trump telling the crowd 
 
 that no president has done more for the territory than he has. That's following controversial comments, of course, from a comedian at the Trump 
 
 rally earlier in the week -- or at the weekend, comparing Puerto Rico to garbage.
 
For more on all of this, we're joined by Stephen Collinson. Stephen, always great to have you on the show. Headline from your op-ed this week, "Trump 
 
 Unveils the Most Extreme Closing Argument in Modern Presidential History." Back to October 21st, your headline, "Trump's Wild and Lewd Rhetoric 
 
 Reaches a New Extreme." Back two weeks, "Trump's Extreme Vision for America Hikes Pressure on Harris."
 
The story hasn't changed. For me, the question is that hiking of the pressure and her ability to make outreach to those that have perhaps turned 
 
 off to Trump succeeding? Because she's going to send that message again tonight.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  Yes, and that shot you just put up of the stage for this event is eerily familiar, because it's 
 
 exactly the same shot with the blue stage, the American flags, the backdrop of the White House behind them, that reminds us all of where Trump was 
 
 standing on January 6, 2021.
 
I think what the Vice President is trying to do here is not just remind Americans about what happened then, she's trying to say that if you elect 
 
 Trump next week, you're going to get more of the same. That is the emblem of what his presidency was like. Whereas, she will argue that instead of 
 
 having enemies lists and being consumed by revenge, as she will describe Trump, she will actually get to work for the things Americans want to get 
 
 fixed, like high grocery prices, the prohibitive cost of rent and mortgages, expanding health care, et cetera.
 
You know, fear is a staple of the end of American elections. Bush used it against Kerry in 2004. Obama used it against Romney, his opponent in 2012. 
 
 So, it's not surprising they're going with this hard-line message. The question I have is, if it hasn't worked before, if -- you know, it's not a 
 
 surprise to most Americans what Trump is like, is it going to really be the decisive issue at the end of this election?
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, fear is OK, as a tool in a campaign. The question is, are you presenting a vision that you're a viable alternative irrespective 
 
 of what you say they represent and will represent for the next four years? Even just the latest CNN polls, I mean, we're taking, what, Arizona now and 
 
 Nevada, again, two swing states has them absolutely neck and neck. Harris, 48 percent support among likely voters, Arizona. He's at 47. It's flipped 
 
 when you look at the Nevada numbers.
 
Do you believe it's this close, Stephen, or are we -- and should we take these polls with it, enough of a pinch of salt?
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
COLLINSON:  I mean, I think it's very difficult for pollsters to actually forecast what exactly the electorate will look like after such a tumultuous 
 
 election. But putting that aside, in those two polls as well, Trump was seen as the candidate who is most qualified to enact change, and that is a 
 
 big problem for Harris given that she is an incumbent in a very unpopular administration.
 
You know, in one of our colleague's stories today on cnn.com, Matt Egan, he had this really interesting statistic, and he wrote that, the cost for the 
 
 average American family of the same package of goods and services now as it compared to four years ago when Biden took office, it's 1,100 bucks more 
 
 expensive now.
 
So, I think, with that in mind and watching Harris today and the comparison she's trying to make, that's the election right there. Do Americans want to 
 
 take the risk of Trump, who they think will make them better off and fix some of their problems at everything that comes with Trump, or do they just 
 
 decide that it's all too exhausting? Four more years of having Trump back and everything that brings. The insults and the chaos we saw at that rally 
 
 the other night, you know, do they decide, you know what, we might not think Harris can affect change but we don't want what we had until four 
 
 years ago?
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. I mean, I guess the argument could also be made that we wouldn't have known about those insults had there not been widespread 
 
 coverage of it, but that's a moot point. Set aside the politics of fear, how about the politics of putting food on the table? And I think that's the 
 
 takeaway point from this, Stephen, as you quite rightly made it. Stephen Collinson, always great to have you on the show, sir. Thank you.
 
COLLINSON:  Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY:  New CNN analysis of television campaign advertising reports that Republicans are poised to spend more in these final days before 
 
 November 5th. In the three months, though, since Kamala Harris launched her campaign, Democrats buoyed by record setting financial support have 
 
 actually outspent Republicans by wide margins in the key swing states.
 
Just to give you a sense, the 2024 U.S. presidential election is expected to be the most expensive ever, with one estimate placing the final cost of 
 
 political ad spending at nearly $11 billion. Yes, you heard me right.
 
And right now, battleground Pennsylvania is the leading target for both sides in spending. The second ranked state, though, is Michigan, where 
 
 Harris and her allies have outspent Republicans by nearly $58 million dollars.
 
And joining us now from the battleground State of Michigan is the politics editor of the Detroit Free Press, Emily Lawler. Emily, great to have you on 
 
 the show. I just want to get a sense of how all that ad campaigning spend feels when you're living in a state. What's it been like for the last 
 
 couple of months?
 
EMILY LAWLER, POLITICS EDITOR, DETROIT FREE PRESS:  So, certainly, people are getting inundated, not only with what you'd think of in terms of TV 
 
 advertisements, mailers turning up in your mailbox, but also the texts this cycle are just pretty intense.
 
So, you know, if you're a Michigan voter, you might be getting 5, 10, 15, 20 texts a day from numbers that you don't know, who don't show up in your 
 
 phone, from different interest groups, not necessarily the campaigns themselves, but packs and other groups supporting them, urging you to 
 
 either register to vote, get your absentee ballot, vote early, or vote a certain way.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I think there will be people listening to that thinking that sounds completely exhausting. How does that compare to the level of, let's 
 
 call it, bombardment that people received in 2020 and in 2016? Can you give us any sense of relative comparison and what are people saying about that?
 
LAWLER:  Yes, I would say definitely more than in 2020. You know, particularly just the visible signs. If you drive down a highway right now, 
 
 a lot of billboards that you see are about the presidential campaign. And, you know, in addition to all the other contact methods I just mentioned, I 
 
 really do think people are getting a certain amount of fatigue from all this bombardment of advertisement, especially because for the first time in 
 
 a presidential cycle, we have early voting and a lot of people have already cast their ballots or they voted absentee.
 
I think, you know, more than a million people in Michigan have already voted and I think they deserve some sort of an escape clause from all this 
 
 targeted messaging.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, stop after every text message. Just don't send any more. But your point is very interesting one, which is the more people vote early 
 
 than the less people there are to convince in these final days. I know it's difficult, but we are still trying to gauge and obviously, it's very 
 
 anecdotal, whose support is underestimated and whether we can look at the polling and suggest that it's as close really as the numbers suggest. 
 
 Emily, what do you feel from talking to people?
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
LAWLER:  Yes, it really seems like, you know, Trump supporters are not confident yet that Trump will win. Harris supporters are not confident yet 
 
 that Harris will win. I think that reporters are on edge as much as the general public here in terms of what.
 
But, you know, on the ground, it doesn't feel like anybody thinks this is a foregone conclusion. It feels like both sides are kind of fighting from 
 
 this underdog position and working as hard as they can in these final days.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, it's peak uncertainty, to your point. I think it's fair to say no one knows. Emily, great to have you with us. We're almost there. 
 
 Just a few more days. Hang in there. Emily Lawler, great to have you.
 
LAWLER:  Thanks for having me.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you. All right. In the Middle East now, Israel continuing military operations in both Lebanon and Gaza. This video shows 
 
 the aftermath of Israeli strikes that hit several cities in Eastern Lebanon on Monday night. The Lebanese health ministry says 82 people were killed. 
 
 The strikes are among the most deadly since the Israel-Hezbollah conflict escalated last month.
 
Today, Hezbollah has named Naim Qassem as its new leader after Israel killed Hassan Nasrallah.
 
Meanwhile, a host of nations have now also criticized the move by the Israeli parliament to ban the U.N. aid agency, UNRWA, from operating in 
 
 Israel. Experts warn the ban will restrict UNRWA's humanitarian work in Gaza.
 
Well, hospital director in Northern Gaza is describing a catastrophic situation after an Israeli airstrike killed more than 90 Palestinians. 
 
 Jeremy Diamond has more and a warning, the video in his report is disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (through translator):  These men aren't looking for survivors. Amid the rubble of another Israeli 
 
 airstrike, they are here for the bodies. After all, how could anyone survive destruction on this scale?
 
More than 90 people were killed in this Israeli strike in Northern Gaza early Tuesday morning, including 25 children, according to the Palestinian 
 
 ministry of health. An Israeli military spokesman said the military was targeting a suspected terrorist in the area and did not intend to collapse 
 
 the building.
 
But the bodies have not yet all been counted, as this man can attest.
 
Here's a body, and here's another, and another, he says, pointing out their locations. And then there are the bodies of this boy's uncle and cousin, 
 
 wedged between two thick slabs of concrete. A pair of feet is all that is visible.
 
Gaza's rescue workers cannot reach this part of Northern Gaza, which has been besieged by the Israeli military for nearly a month. That means no 
 
 heavy machinery, just bare hands sifting through the rubble.
 
Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya (ph) is one of just two doctors here and he's growing desperate, calling for a humanitarian corridor to bring surgical teams to 
 
 his hospital.
 
There are children with bones protruding from their bodies needing orthopedic surgery. There are brain injuries that require neurosurgeons, he 
 
 says.
 
But Israel's parliament may make matters worse. In an overwhelming vote, Israeli lawmakers moved to ban UNRWA, the main U.N. agency aiding 
 
 Palestinians, from operating in Israel or engaging with Israeli officials.
 
Israel accuses UNRWA of ties to Hamas, after linking a handful of its thousands of employees to the October 7th attacks, a blanket charge UNRWA 
 
 vehemently denies. It's a move the U.S. says could not come at a worse time.
 
MATTHEW MILLER, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON:  There's nobody that can replace them right now in the middle of the crisis. So, we continue to 
 
 urge the government of Israel to pause the implementation of this legislation.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  In Gaza, that urgency is all too real. If UNRWA is gone, who is going to feed us? Who will provide us security, this young man 
 
 asks, who is going to take us in?
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  U.S. President Joe Biden says he's concerned about the presence of North Korean fighters in Russia. It comes as both the Pentagon 
 
 and NATO say roughly 10,000 troops have joined Russia's war effort. Some already appear to be inside Ukraine, according to two western intelligence 
 
 officials.
 
Meanwhile, South Korean lawmakers say families of the soldiers have been left in the dark and suggest that the move has been unpopular inside North 
 
 Korea.
 
Mike Valerio joins us now from Seoul. Mike, there's two things there. That goes further than certainly NATO was suggesting that North Korean troops 
 
 may already be inside Ukraine, but the suggestion too that the North Koreans are perhaps trying to mask what's taking place from their own 
 
 people, quite fascinating too.
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Absolutely, Julia. That was, I think, certainly the most striking piece of intelligence that has come out that 
 
 North Korea is trying to dissemble what is going on here.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
Now, to set the table of what we're going to talk about. You know, a couple hours ago, Julia, we had a briefing here in Seoul from South Korea's spy 
 
 agency. So, they briefed lawmakers. Two of those lawmakers come out and say, you know, when we're thinking about this synergy between Russia and 
 
 North Korean troops, we've always been wondering how is that synergy going to work? And the top line from South Korea's spy agency is that it's not 
 
 really working out very well, at least at this point.
 
So, talking about what we know, according to the spy agency and these lawmakers, to your point, Julia, North Korea is telling at least some 
 
 family members of these troops that the troops are participating in a, quote/unquote, "military exercise," not saying that these troops are going 
 
 to Russia or ultimately going to Ukraine, and that apparently, according to the spy agency here in Seoul, has caused episodes of unrest in North Korea, 
 
 which, of course, is so remarkable to hear, considering that Kim Jong Un tolerates no dissent against the regime.
 
No phone communication is apparently allowed for North Korean officers who are going to the frontlines of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. And 
 
 when we're talking about how communication is going on a micro level, apparently that is not going so well either. South Korean intelligence 
 
 saying that North Korean troops are being instructed in give or take about a hundred key words and phrases in Russian like open fire or get in 
 
 position. And this Duolingo language lesson on the battlefield, so to speak, it's not going so great. There have been reports that communication 
 
 is faltering between Russian and North Korean troops.
 
Now, earlier, South Korea's president spoke broadly on this subject. Listen to what he told us.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOON SUK YEOL, SOUTH KOREAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  This illegal military cooperation between Russia and North Korea is a significant 
 
 security threat to the International Community and could pose a serious risk to our national security.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VALERIO:  So, when he's talking about why this poses a risk to South Korean national security, the thinking is, Julia, when we talk to analysts and 
 
 North Korea watchers, that this is a fighting force that has been contained to the hermit nation for decades.
 
So, when you send troops out to the battlefield, and if they survive and come back to North Korea, that could give them new modern warfare 
 
 experience that they never would have otherwise had, making the North Korean fighting force more formidable and potentially more of a threat to 
 
 here in South Korea.
 
So, as we look forward, as you mentioned, the secretary general of NATO confirmed that there are North Korean fighting forces on the frontlines in 
 
 Russia. Two western intelligence officials, according to our friend at the Pentagon, Natasha Bertrand, CNN's own, have said that, yes, a small number 
 
 of North Korean troops are actually in Ukraine, which takes this thing a little bit further.
 
It's already Wednesday here in Seoul, but when we look forward to Wednesday in D.C., South Korea's defense minister is going to be meeting with the 
 
 U.S. secretary of defense. We're going to be watching, Julia, to see what other descriptive pieces of this story they can give us, because it is 
 
 fascinating about how this conflict has reached East Asia here, how the Korean peninsula has become involved, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, on so many levels. I was just looking back over time and physical wars that the North Koreans were involved in. And I'm going back 
 
 to obviously the 1960s, the DMZ conflict and the Vietnam War. Obviously, the Korean War than in the 1950s to get actual live experience, which is 
 
 what the South Koreans are warning about. You have to go back a really, really long way.
 
VALERIO:  Exactly, exactly.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Fascinating. Mike Valerio, great to have you. All right. Straight ahead, Taiwan in the eye of the storm. Residents bracing for a 
 
 powerful typhoon that could hit later this week. We'll have the very latest.
 
Plus, the Bezos brouhaha. The owner of The Washington Post defending the paper's decision to end presidential endorsements. And thousands have 
 
 cancelled their subscriptions. We'll have all the details, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back. And a very good morning if you're just waking up with us. A NASDAQ trading triumph and the cloud making Alphabet proud. All 
 
 that and more topping today's Money Move. U.S. stocks closing, well, we'll call that mixed, but the NASDAQ finishing at fresh record highs as U.S. 
 
 bond yields eased from three-month highs.
 
Alphabet higher in afterhours trading too. The parent company of Google, easily beating on both the top and bottom lines. Cloud revenue was up more 
 
 than 30 percent from a year ago, and we can chalk that up, of course, to strong demand for artificial intelligence.
 
And in Asia, Japanese stocks gaining as the yen weakens further, all this after the Japanese ruling party lost its majority in last weekend's 
 
 elections. We were discussing that, of course, on the show yesterday. Chinese stocks under a bit of pressure issue. You can see, the Shanghai 
 
 Composite there down some 1 percent. But we did see new comments from President Xi Jinping. He is now urging officials to do all they can to hit 
 
 this year's growth target of 5 percent, which the government has yet to achieve.
 
And a new research study says the number of Chinese billionaires has fallen by more than a third over the past three years as the economy, and no doubt 
 
 the stock exchange as well, weakens.
 
The billionaire founder of Amazon, Jeff Bezos, is defending his newspaper's non endorsement of a U.S. presidential candidate. Bezos described the 
 
 decision as, quote, "principled" and argued that Americans believe that the media is biased. In the aftermath, newspapers staffers have resigned and 
 
 hundreds of thousands of readers have cancelled their online subscriptions, and that number continues to grow. Critics have called Bezos cowardly.
 
Sara Fischer is senior media reporter for Axios, and she joins us now. Sara, fantastic to have you on the show. There's separate issues here for 
 
 me and we'll try and separate them at least. There's the decision to no longer endorse the presidential candidate after what, 50 years of doing so? 
 
 And the second one is the timing of this decision, just a week or so out from a presidential election. What do you make of the decision and what do 
 
 you make of the justification from Jeff Bezos?
 
SARA FISCHER, CNN MEDIA ANALYST AND SENIOR MEDIA REPORTER, AXIOS:  I think the justification makes sense and that's why you're seeing so many 
 
 newspaper groups announcing that they're not going to endorse. But to your point, so many other papers have made that announcement months, if not 
 
 years ago.
 
The best example being Alden Golden Capital, which is a huge hedge fund, announced in 2022 that it wasn't going to do national election 
 
 endorsements. And so, their logic was very similar to Bezos', that in a hyper polarized environment, it impacts impartiality and the perception of 
 
 impartiality. And so, I don't think anyone is questioning Bezon's logic. But the problem was, coming out 11 days ahead of the election and also 
 
 killing an opinion editor's already written endorsement, that's when it starts to look like you're doing this because you're scared of retribution 
 
 from Donald Trump.
 
And by the way, just my own two cents here, Donald Trump is one of those types of people who can really sniff fear. I almost wonder that in doing 
 
 this, in creating this whole big news cycle now around the non-endorsement, he actually, Bezos, whose companies have millions of dollars of government 
 
 contracts, it could make it worse for him if Donald Trump were to win.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I mean, the challenges, the timing makes it almost look like a de facto Trump endorsement, which I know had a lot of Democrats, I 
 
 read. You could also argue at this stage that Kamala Harris' talk about attacks on unrealized capital gains for one of the world's richest men and 
 
 enormous owner of Amazon stock could also be a reason not to endorse her. So, just to be -- and add some balance here.
 
One of the arguments that I've seen though, Sara, and I'd love to get your opinion on this is, look, there's a new side and there's an editorial side. 
 
 They have an editorial board. Now, I would argue that the average voter doesn't know the difference, but the editor board can make a decision and 
 
 endorse a candidate or make a judgment call or be objective about something and share a view. Does that count in this era or is the point that Bezos 
 
 makes about the lack of trust overriding everything?
 
FISCHER:  I think it absolutely counts. Remember, a lot of these editorial boards, even though they're not endorsing national elections and 
 
 presidents, they are endorsing ballot measures, key state races, key local races. And I think those endorsements are very powerful for people in local 
 
 communities.
 
You do touch on a really sticky point though, which is that, you know, if you want to be this unbiased, trusted news outlet in an era where 
 
 everything is so hyper polarized and hyper partisan, does having an opinion page, having an editorial page take away from that?
 
I mean, our company, we are a digital first outlet. We don't have an opinion page for that very reason, because you're worried about the 
 
 perception of bias. You also mentioned something critical, which is that a lot of people can't quite tell the difference between opinion and straight 
 
 news.
 
You know, in the newspaper era, this was very obvious, Julia, right? It was a physical distinction that was shared amongst all newspapers. You had the 
 
 editorial, and then you had the opposite of the editorial, the op-ed, which indicated opinion.
 
In the online era, there's no uniform disclosure for how we talk about things that aren't straight news. Some companies will call it analysis, 
 
 some companies call it view, some companies call it opinion. So, it's become so conflated that I do think it's damaged trust. Again, I don't 
 
 think that the decision to poll endorsements is necessarily a bad one. I don't think the decision to have endorsements is a bad one either.
 
But to the point up top, it's all about the way you communicate it and the timing. And coming in 11 days before a hot election as a billionaire who 
 
 has, you know, government contracts, is just not sending a very good message about the true reason as to why you are cutting the court on this.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. I want to disagree with you profusely over something, but I can't because you always speak wisdom on my show. And just for balance, I 
 
 will add according to Sensor Tower, which is a market intelligence firm that specializes in mobile app data Washington Post app downloads in the 
 
 United States increased 12 percent week over week when comparing this Saturday and Sunday to the past weekend and increased daily active users by 
 
 10 percent as well. So, that balances, perhaps to some degree, those that canceled their subscriptions. It's going to be interesting to watch. Sara, 
 
 great to have you on, as always. Thank you.
 
FISCHER:  Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. In our Weather Move, typhoon Kong-rey rapidly intensifying in the Western Pacific so much that it's soon expected to 
 
 become a super typhoon. Wind speeds have increased to 145 miles per hour in the past day alone. Just to give you a sense, that's more than 230 
 
 kilometers per hour.
 
Kong-rey is bringing additional rain and winds to the Northeastern Philippines, a country that was already hit by flooding and deadly 
 
 landslides from tropical storm Trami. Forecasters predict Kong-rey will directly impact Taiwan on Thursday.
 
Chad Myers has the latest. Chad, I'm not sure I want to hear it, but tell us more for people there specifically.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  I mean, we're only nine kilometers per hour from that super typhoon that you mentioned. There is Kong-rey, a very 
 
 impressive storm, 231 kilometers per hour. Right now, you have to get above 240 to get to that super typhoon category. But this thing went from 120 to 
 
 230 in 24 hours. And yes, it's hard to miss Taiwan when you're already this close.
 
Obviously, these things do get impacted by the topography of Taiwan and we saw that with Gaemi, how it made this big jog. Will that do the same thing 
 
 here? We'll have to see. But even getting up toward Kyushu here at a 75 kilometer per hour storm or so.
 
There goes the storm right over Taiwan. And it's one of the reasons why the eastern part of Taiwan is not as populated as the western side. 500 
 
 millimeters of rain expected in that white area there. An awful lot of rain as well into China and also down toward Kyushu.
 
Here's the wind speeds. So, all over 200 kph as we work our way through the area here. So, big wind event all the way for China and still some wind on 
 
 up toward the north to the northeast.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
Here's what's happened in Taiwan over the last 75 years, more than 30 Taiwan landfalls were like equivalent to the Category 4 and Category 5 
 
 Atlantic hurricanes. And this year alone we had Krathon and then Gaemi. There's that little dip I'm talking about that happened because of the 
 
 topography. The whole thing kind of wobbled a little bit.
 
But Signal 2, Signal 1 here for parts of the Philippines. Philippines do not need any more rainfall. They're likely to get probably 200 or more 
 
 still to come, but on the northern, northern part. This is a Taiwan storm. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. And it's a big one. Those ducks being very smart though, hanging out on the roof in those images there as devastating as they were. 
 
 Chad Myers, thank you. Stay with CNN. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back. The CEO of SoftBank says the future of artificial intelligence is much bigger than current market valuations 
 
 suggest. Masayoshi Son is known for taking pretty big bets with successful investments in firms like Alibaba, but also unsuccessful ones like 
 
 companies like WeWork. Now, he's focused on A.I. and telling our Richard Quest he expects major advancements. Just take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MASAYOSHI SON, CEO, SOFTBANK:  AGI definition is same level of as a human brain. That's a AGI, Artificial General Intelligence. But people have a 
 
 different point of view definition of artificial super intelligence. How super? You know, 10 times super or 100 times super? My definition of ASI is 
 
 10,000 times super smarter than human brain. That's my definition of ASI, and that's coming in 2035. Ten years. Ten years from today. 10,000 times 
 
 smarter. That's my prediction.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST, "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS":  What is different in that? What will it do that we should either look forward to or 
 
 be worried about?
 
SON:  Both. Both. We should be looking forward to that. Of course. We have to also be careful. We have to regulate. If such a superpower comes and no 
 
 regulation, it could be super dangerous. Of course, automotive industry was very, very beneficial, productive to human, but we have a regulation. Same 
 
 thing.
 
QUEST:  No, I don't -- I -- with respect, because we don't have anybody in the world who's willingly building or wanting to build automobiles that are 
 
 dangerous. When it comes to A.I. there may be state actors, there may be independent actors that want to build A.I. that can be harmful to other 
 
 people. How can we guard against it? How do you guard against it?
 
SON:  Of course, there is always some bad guy, you know, 1 percent, 2 percent of humans are bad guys, OK? But 99 percent of humans are actually 
 
 good guys, OK? So, the bad guy, of course, tries to use A.I. for the bad intention. However, those bad guys don't necessarily have enough capital.
 
This is a massive capital. Hundreds of billions of dollars of investment is required to make super intelligence. The bad guy, how do they sponsor? 
 
 There is not enough money to sponsor the bad guys.
 
QUEST:  If you take, for example, NVIDIA, the number of people who will say, oh, NVIDIA's in trouble, oh, NVIDIA's got problem. Blah, blah, blah, 
 
 blah. Oh, A.I.'s -- really all that's happened is that the market has overvalued too soon.
 
SON:  That's a good question. That's a good question. Many people will still doubt. OK. So, I think NVIDIA is undervalued.
 
QUEST:  What?
 
SON:  Undervalued.
 
QUEST:  On what basis?
 
SON:  Because the future is much bigger.
 
QUEST:  But the market's concentrating, as we heard in a panel earlier, it's quarterly reports. It's, oh, if NVIDIA tells us that it's going to be 
 
 longer and slower, we all get -- 
 
SON:  Yes, yes, yes. NVIDIA is just one example.
 
QUEST:  Right.
 
SON:  OK. What about the total, you know, gen A.I. future, what is the value of the future? Is this a bubble today or not? OK. Some critics, the 
 
 most negative guy says, oh, this AGI, ASI, in 10 years, maybe only 5 percent is actually useful or, you know, replacing people's job, but 95 
 
 percent still the same, no change. It takes time. So, I said, OK, let's accept the most negative critic's view, that is only 5 percent change, 95 
 
 percent unchanged.
 
But what is that, you know, ASI investment required to take? OK. 10,000 smarter than mankind. How many gigawatts? We were talking about gigawatts 
 
 just before me.
 
QUEST:  Yes.
 
SON:  I have predicted it will take 400 gigawatts of. A.I. data centers power, 400 gigawatts. That's bigger than total U.S. electricity. And it 
 
 will require 200 million chips, OK? The cumulative capex, $9 trillion. $9 trillion. How do you recoup? How do you recoup? It's too much investment 
 
 for many people's view. I say it's still very reasonable capex. $9 trillion is not too big, maybe too small.
 
QUEST:  You like to think big?
 
SON:  Yes. Yes. So, let me say, what is $9 trillion cumulative? But if the 5 percent of GDP in 10 years from today replaced by ASI, what is the 
 
 number?
 
QUEST:  Right?
 
SON:  5 percent of global GDP is $9 trillion. $9 trillion per year. If the ASI produce you $9 trillion per year, cumulative investment of $9 trillion, 
 
 small money.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Every nation's going to use A.I. to build weaponry every nation. OK. More to come stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." Cuba only recently restored electricity on the island after a complete power grid failure due to severe 
 
 weather. But more than a million people are still enduring a month's long water shortage despite watching it flow through the streets due to poor 
 
 infrastructure. Patrick Oppmann is in Havana and has more details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Some days, in many parts of Cuba, it seems there's water everywhere but actually inside people's 
 
 houses. Like the power grid that crashed across the island for more than three days earlier this month, the island's aging, poorly maintained water 
 
 system is also barely functioning.
 
Enough water spills in the street in some places to even wash your car. The day we first visited this hardscrabble neighborhood on the outskirts of 
 
 Havana, residents tell us they've not had running water in over two weeks.
 
Some people, like Ani (ph), say they walk to areas where water does come in, even if only for a few hours, to carry back to their homes.
 
We carry water to be able to bathe and cook, she says. I have four tanks for water in my house, but there's not even a drop in them.
 
Cuban officials blame U.S. sanctions, in part, for the failing water system, but acknowledge the crisis has grown to impact nearly 10 percent of 
 
 the population.
 
We have around 1,013,000, 1,018,000 people without water, he says, because of the pumps, energy cuts, pipe breakages.
 
The water shortages have led some Cubans to take to the streets in protest, something the government usually does not tolerate. The worsening power 
 
 situation has a direct impact on the water supply.
 
OPPMANN:  Many people have not -- most people in Cuba don't get water every day. You might get water for a few hours every other day, every third day. 
 
 It's what's known as El dia del aqua, water day. But when there's a power cut, you don't get any water that day either.
 
OPPMANN (voice-over):  The government says it sends water trucks to help with the problem, but there are not enough to go around. And residents here 
 
 tell us you have to pay to get one of those trucks to actually come.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
That's an impossibility for someone like Ani (ph), who says the more frequently the power goes out, the less water she will likely have. She 
 
 says the country's leaders need to remember how poor people like her here live.
 
The power doesn't go out for them, she says. They need to put themselves in our place.
 
Just down the hill from Ani's (ph) house, a small river of drinking water runs in the street where a pipe is broken. She says residents have reported 
 
 the problem for years to the local government, but no one has ever come to fix it.
 
Patrick Oppmann, CNN, Havana.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Patrick there. OK. Now, this is one of my favorite stories. Science nerds, listen up. Scientists at China's JUNO 
 
 Observatory are sealing up their experiment in order for it to work. They're trying to understand neutrinos, a mysterious subatomic particle. 
 
 Stick with me. There's still much we don't know about them, such as which are heavier and lighter, but Marc Stewart has been investigating from 
 
 Beijing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  More than 700 meters underground, researchers in Southern China are busy solving a mystery, one 
 
 that could lead to a scientific breakthrough.
 
For a decade, these scientists have been constructing JUNO, an underground observatory. With construction almost complete, they're ready to execute 
 
 their plan to better understand neutrino. These tiny subatomic particles are among the most abundant particles with mass in the universe, and they 
 
 move at nearly the speed of light. Neutrinos are all around us, even passing through our bodies, and scientists need to know more about them.
 
WANG YIFANG, PROJECT MANAGER, JUNO:  The goal of this facility to study properties of neutrinos. In particular, the mass hierarchy of neutrinos.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  That is they want to study which types of neutrino are the heaviest and lightest. JUNO's experiments also seek to solve 
 
 multiple other mysteries, including why they change types while in flight.
 
CAO JUN, STANDING DEPUTY MANAGER, JUNO:  So, we don't know the answer yet. That's why we need the JUNO experiment to measure the neutrino and get 
 
 answer of the fundamental rules of our nature.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  They'll measure neutrinos emitted by two nuclear plants located about 50 kilometers away. Knowing what makes up the 
 
 fundamentals of neutrinos can open the door to learning more about the past and future of the universe and discover the nature of matter and energy.
 
China isn't the only country working to understand these tiny particles. Other countries are in the race to be the first to solve the enigma.
 
YIFANG:  So, the one in the us, the one in Japan is in the construction. There's one in France and the seawater is in the construction. There's one 
 
 in South Pole in the planning. So, all of this is trying to understand neutrino mass hierarchy.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  In a few months, JUNO will be sealed off for 30 years running experiments and collecting data. And while it may take 
 
 decades, JUNO's team says they're confident they'll be the first to finish their research and solve the mysteries. If they come first, they could set 
 
 the tone for what we know about the universe moving forward.
 
Marc Stewart, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Marc there. Now, coming up, the L.A. Dodgers dominate while the New York Yankees yelp. It's all on the line in Game 4 of 
 
 the World Series. The details next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. At least one person has died, up to nine 
 
 others are missing after a 10-story hotel collapsed Tuesday morning in Argentina. According to local authorities, the hotel was undergoing 
 
 renovation and operating, quote, "without complying with municipal regulations."
 
Donald Trump's former chief strategist, Steve Bannon, has been released from prison. Bannon served a four-month sentence for failing to comply with 
 
 a congressional investigation into the January 6th attack. Upon his release, he said he's quote, "empowered" and is continuing to appeal his 
 
 conviction.
 
A troubling sign of the times at Japan's Mount Fuji. Officials note that the iconic mountain has not seen any traces of snow so far this fall. The 
 
 latest appearance of snow in some 130 years. At this time of year, it's got at least a dusting of snow. All of this after Japan experienced its hottest 
 
 summer on record. Just compare, by the way, the pictures you just saw with these. Now, that was taken at Mount Fuji just four years ago. Wowzers.
 
OK. the L.A. Dodgers just one game away from winning the World Series, trouncing the New York Yankees Monday night 4 to 2. That's despite star 
 
 player Shohei Ohtani appearing to be in pain due to that shoulder injury, if you remember.
 
Hope fading fast, however, for the Yankees. No team has been able to bounce back from a three-game loss to win the World Series until now perhaps, 
 
 always a qualifier. For more on this, we're joined by Don Riddell. The question is can they do it because, wow, they look like they're on form.
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Yes, the Dodgers look great. The Yankees do not. Aaron judge, their power hitter, who's had such a great season, just 
 
 hasn't got it going at all in this postseason and he's even worse in the World Series. Julia. So, yes, it's hard to see how the Yankees can dig 
 
 themselves out of this hole. And if they can, it would be historic.
 
As you just noted, no team has ever come back from three down in the World Series. Only once has it ever happened in a seven-game series in the 
 
 baseball playoffs, and that was the Red Sox, actually, against the Yankees 20 years ago.
 
So, it kind of seems to be over for the Yankees. And the Dodgers just go from strength to strength. They won Game 3 in the Bronx by four runs to two 
 
 on Monday night. And it was this guy, Freddie Freeman, who has just lit up this World Series with yet another home run. He has now homered in five 
 
 consecutive World Series games. That ties a record. Two of those games were his last two with the Atlanta Braves when he won the World Series with them 
 
 a few years ago, and he has led his team to the brink of another World Series championship.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FREDDIE FREEMAN, LOS ANGELES DODGERS FIRST BASEMAN:  I guess when it's all said and done, I can look at that. But the most important thing is what you 
 
 said, one more win. That's all I care about right now. I don't care how it happens. I just want to get one more win.
 
DAVE ROBERTS, LOS ANGELES DODGERS MANAGER:  We have got to stay focused. Stay urgent. I think offensively, to be quite honest, we left a lot of runs 
 
 out there tonight. Still found a way to win a ball game and there's just got to be urgency. I just don't want to let these guys up for error.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIDDELL:  You know, Julia, everybody loves Freddie Freeman and there's a lot of love to go around. He's well known for his hugs. He's overcome a lot 
 
 of adversity in his life, though. He always plays in long sleeves in honor of his mum who died of melanoma skin cancer when he was just 10. Even this 
 
 season, one of his young sons has had to overcome a really, really worrying illness.
 
And yet, here he is on top of the world. And it's not just those five consecutive World Series homers, he's also made history by becoming the 
 
 first World Series player ever to hit a walk off Grand Slam in this World Series. So, he is absolutely on top of the world.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, strong physically and mentally, it seems as well. What about Shohei Ohtani? Because I saw some of the pre-match sort of ramble and 
 
 he was talking about being strapped up. He was also talking about keeping it warm as well. He was wearing some kind of heating device. What can we 
 
 expect from Game 4?
 
RIDDELL:  Well, we don't really know what to expect. I mean, to be honest, if you ask me, I thought it was amazing that he was just playing last 
 
 night, given that he partially dislocated his shoulder at the weekend. But he was out there.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
He hasn't done too much in this World Series. It's his teammates who've taken a lot more of the attention. But he did manage to get on base last 
 
 night. He was walked. And with a player like Ohtani, you just never know when he's going to do something special, and just having him in the lineup 
 
 and standing there at the plate just gives the Yankees so many more things to think about and worry about.
 
So, I think if he's just a part of the game, again, that's going to be a positive for the Dodgers. And it does seem that he's almost certainly going 
 
 to be winning his first World Series ring pretty soon, if not tonight, then surely in the next game or the one after that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Phenomenal. I think your point is so correct, just having him there gives them all a lift and, obviously, puts fear in the minds of 
 
 the other team, which is what you want to. Don, great to have you.
 
RIDDELL:  All right.
 
CHATTERLEY:  We shall see. Don Riddell. And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. We'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END