Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Beryl Traverses Jamaica; SCOTUS Gives Trump Absolute Immunity; Kenyan Activists Call for Ruto's Resignation; USA Ends Copa America Campaign with a Loss to Uruguay; Vatican Approves Carlo Acutis to be Canonized as the First Millennial Saint. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired July 02, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and to everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead, Hurricane Beryl picks up strength. The Category 5 storm now churning towards Jamaica, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake. 
 
Plus, the U.S. Supreme Court hands down a monumental ruling giving Donald Trump broad immunity from prosecution in his election subversion case. 
 
And Kenyan activists head to the streets to call for President Ruto's removal. We're live in Nairobi with the details. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from Atlanta, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH: Thanks for joining us. Hurricane Beryl has strengthened into a Category 5 storm and has winds of 270 kilometers per hour as it speeds across the Caribbean toward Jamaica. It's the earliest ever Category 5 storm in the Atlantic Ocean, driven by extreme heat and rising water temperatures. 
 
The U.S. National Hurricane Center calls Beryl potentially catastrophic and says it's expected to bring life-threatening winds and storm surge to Jamaica starting Wednesday. The storm made devastating landfall across the Windward Islands on Monday, knocking out power and destroying homes.
 
Parts of St. Vincent and the Grenadines have no water or power, and at least one person was reported killed there. The Prime Minister of Grenada says Karayaku, the country's second largest island, was flattened in half an hour.
 
And the nation of Barbados suffered considerable damage to its fishing vessels. One woman explains what this means for her livelihood and the fishing industry. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KERRYANN NOWELL-BROWNE, FISHERWOMAN: I can't amount to tell anybody the loss, it is total devastation, total, total devastation. So many people have lost their boats and all the boats in the water now are being destroyed because they're clashing against one another and they're destroying the one another. There's nothing more we can do but stand and watch total destruction, our livelihood going down the drain. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Patrick Oppmann shows us what Beryl left behind and how residents prepared.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): With wind speeds of 150 miles per hour, Hurricane Beryl makes landfall in the Windward Islands. The storm closed schools, businesses and airports across the islands of Grenada, Barbados and St. Lucia. As Beryl rapidly intensified, officials urged residents to seek shelter immediately.
 
RALPH GONSALVES, PRIME MINISTER OF SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: You have to be off the road, you must be off the road. There are instructions to the police to enforce this. You have to take care of yourself. You have to look out for your neighbors and your friends and your families. 
 
OPPMANN (voice-over): The hurricane knocked out power in about 95 percent of Grenada. In Barbados, over 400 people were evacuated and housed in hurricane shelters, the nation's chief shelter warden said. Some people only had hours to prepare and lines formed at gas stations and grocery stores. 
 
UNKNOWN: I think that I am well prepared but I'm just getting a few more canned items. But in terms of the house preparation and things like that, I have my water, bottled water and collected water. I have my extra food stuff, my batteries, my battery lights and so on. So I'm well prepared. 
 
OPPMANN (voice-over): The National Hurricane Center warned life- threatening storm surge would raise water levels six to nine feet above normal tide levels, leading to potentially catastrophic damage in low-lying islands. Abnormally warm waters fuel Beryl's alarming strength, record temperatures driven by climate change. 
 
Hurricane season began June 1st, but already there is no shortage of pain and destruction caused by a history-making storm. 
 
Patrick Oppmann, CNN, Havana.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Noman Khan runs the travel blog, The "Khanadians." He and his family are currently staying near Worthing Beach in Barbados. Appreciate you being with us.
 
NORMAN KHAN, TRAVEL BLOGGER, "KHANADIANS": Glad to be here, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: So you are there with your family on vacation since Friday. How bad has this been so far for everyone? 
 <br>[03:05:07]
 
KHAN: Rosemary, well, Friday and Saturday, actually most of Sunday, were really good quintessentially Barbadian weather. You might know or your audience might know there was a huge cricketing tournament here in Barbados on Saturday, the finals of the cricket T20 World Cup played between India and South Africa. 
 
So Barbados was already just teeming with tourists, primarily from India and South Africa in time to watch that World Cup game. So I think the authorities were kind of ready to welcome a lot of tourists. The resorts were all full, the airport was very busy. And Sunday morning is when the hurricane watch was issued. And it was, I would say from our experience, it was really a calm sense of preparation.
 
The government issued strict orders to all the hotels and resorts to essentially shut down by 8 p.m. Sunday night. And our hotel and I understand other resorts really heeded that call. We were all given takeout containers for dinner. We're okay with that. We're in the middle of a hurricane. And we all ate our dinners inside our rooms.
 
And same thing for this morning. To be honest, things really got bad late last night, so just about 24 hours ago when the first outer bands of hurricane barrels started to lash the southern coast of Barbados. I think Barbados got luckier than Grenada in the sense that the eye of the storm did not make landfall. It passed by us at sunrise this morning, or Sunday morning, and I think that really helped ensure that the power was not lost on the island. 
 
The water supply was not cut. There's no reports of major damage or accidents or death on Barbados. So it did, and I think a lot of people heeded the call to stay indoors. So all of those factors combined together I think really made this not as bad as it could have been or as bad as it probably is in Grenada. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah. It sounds like you got some good instruction there from the government and of course from the resort that you're staying at. And of course we know that Hurricane Beryl is gaining strength as it moves towards Jamaica after making landfall across the Windward Islands on Monday. What's your advice to those experiencing this storm right now? 
 
KHAN: Rosemary, I would say from experience, listen if you're a local, listen to your government and local authorities. If you're a tourist in Jamaica and other parts of the Caribbean that's about to witness this storm, really listen to what people are saying. I think that really helped us out. 
 
We were driving all across Barbados all day Sunday, different beaches, because it was glorious weather. And we really saw that I think, at least from a Barbadian perspective, this is really a way of life. People expect during the summer months to have to prepare at very short notice for major storms. So we had to stop at a petrol station or a gas station. It was busy, but again, nothing crazy.
 
We stopped at a grocery store, busy, but again, organized, busy. The tap water in Barbados is actually safe to drink, so you don't see tourists or locals buying a lot of plastic bottles, because it is safe to drink. But again, yesterday we saw some people carrying water bottles out with them in case the water supply got cut.
 
So I think my advice is listen to what the authorities are saying. Stay indoors if there's an evacuation order, follow that as well. Our experience in Barbados, it wasn't a very wet, soaking kind of a storm.
 
There was a lot of wind, a very high wind. And we actually are staying in an oceanfront room, so we had front row seats to the storm. The storm surge was really dangerous. So stay away from the beaches, stay away, and listen to what the authorities are saying. 
 
CHURCH: Some really good advice there. And I do want to ask what your plans are for getting home after the winds die down, after the weather allows you to actually leave.
 
KHAN: Thanks, Rosemary. Great question. We were actually on a beach on Sunday afternoon when I got an email from our airline here in Canada. We are, as you said, we are Canadians and we are here from Toronto, but our flight has been canceled. 
 
But it said we're trying to rebook you. Luckily, once we had come back from the beach, I got another email that the flight has just been delayed by an hour. I think the airport was shut down Saturday and Sunday, sorry, Sunday and Monday today. It is supposed to reopen tomorrow, that's Tuesday. And I think it will be busy because we've also been hearing that the World Cup cricket champions, the team of India, also got stuck on this island and they're eagerly awaited by over a billion fans back home.
 
So I think authorities are doing their best to reopen the airport tomorrow. It will be busy. I think it might be a little bit chaotic, but I think most people I've met here during this trip understand that we just experienced a hurricane. So people are patient and people are not panicking. 
 
CHURCH: Noman Khan, thank you so much for talking with us and we are happy that you and your family got through this hurricane experience unscathed. Thank you so much for talking with us.
 
KHAN: Thank you, Rosemary. 
 <br>[03:10:05]
 
CHURCH: The U.S. president is issuing a strong warning about the power of the presidency and a possible second term for Donald Trump after the Supreme Court ruled that American presidents have absolute immunity from prosecution for official acts. Joe Biden insists no one is above the law and is calling on Americans to show their dissent by voting against Trump in November.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Today's decision almost certainly means that there are virtually no limits on what a president can do. The power of the office will no longer be constrained by the law, even including the Supreme Court of the United States. The only limits will be self-imposed by the president alone.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The 6-3 ruling deals a huge blow to the election subversion case against Trump for his behavior on January 6, 2021, and alleged crimes he committed to try to reverse the 2020 election results. The Supreme Court, with its conservative majority, did not dismiss the trial entirely, but guaranteed it won't happen before the November election. It was supposed to start in March.
 
Trump wrote on Truth Social that the decision is a big win for our constitution and democracy and that he's proud to be an American. Trump also said the ruling should, quote, "end all of crooked Joe Biden's witch hunts against me. There is zero evidence, of course, that President Biden is behind Trump's legal problems."
 
CNN's Katelyn Polantz has more details on this historic decision. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SR. CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: The U.S. Supreme Court, in a split 6-3 decision, decided that there is some ability for the president of the United States to have immunity for what he does when he's serving in that office. Now, it doesn't expand over everything that happens while someone is serving as president.
 
And specifically, in the case against Donald Trump, the Supreme Court does not sign off on what Trump wanted, which was to toss the entire criminal prosecution against him in federal court. 
 
Instead, what the Supreme Court says is there are official core duties under the constitution, things like working with or delegating or giving direction to people underneath the president in the executive branch. That's all protected.
 
But what's not protected is things that are in what the court calls a twilight zone or the unofficial actions of someone serving in the office, someone as a campaigner or someone doing things outside of the presidency. 
 
What that means for Trump is that there is a possible path for the Justice Department still to take him to trial, but there's going to have to be a lot of determinations on exactly what Donald Trump faces in his allegations with fake electors, with his communications with Vice President Mike Pence after the 2020 election, what he was saying publicly on the campaign trail. 
 
All of that is going to have to be looked at now by a trial judge with the possibility of further appeals delaying any trial that still has no date on the calendar.
 
Katelyn Polantz, CNN, Supreme Court. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: -- spoke with CNN legal analyst and former White House ethics czar Norm Eisen. He was also counsel to the House Judiciary Committee during Donald Trump's first impeachment trial. And I asked him what the immunity ruling means for the special counsel's prosecution of Trump's alleged attempt to overturn the 2020 election results. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NORM EISEN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST AND SR. FELLOW, BROOKINGS: The Supreme Court sent the case back down to the trial court to Judge Chutkan to make a determination of which acts are official, which acts are not. 
 
And it laid out, there's a few that it knocked out of the indictment, but the majority of the indictment goes back down. And Donald Trump's communications with individuals out in the states, such as the infamous call to Brad Raffensperger in Georgia, just fined 11,780 votes, his communications with private individuals, his fabrication of these phony electoral certificates.
 
So much of this case can still be found by the judge to be unofficial. It is unofficial. And she should have an evidentiary hearing right away where America can follow along and see that this conduct is not protected. 
 
CHURCH: Right. And Norm, in part of her dissenting opinion, Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor said this in every use of official power. The president is now a king above the law, orders the Navy SEAL Team Six to assassinate a political rival? Immune. Organizes a military coup to hold onto power? Immune. Takes a bribe in exchange for a pardon? Immune, immune, immune, immune. Very strong words. 
 <br>[03:15:08]
 
And then President Biden spoke to her dissenting opinion Monday night, adding that the court ruling gives virtually no limits to what a president can do and represents a dangerous precedent. What's your reaction to this dissenting opinion and to the president's response? 
 
EISEN: The dissent was one of the most powerful that I have ever seen in my more than three decades of reviewing Supreme Court precedent.
 
The extent of official power that is given to a president, when we have a candidate, Rosemary, who says he wants to be a dictator on day one, the official power is shocking and disturbing. We'll see if those specific examples pan out or not. There's a debate to be had.
 
And the president called attention to that. But there still is this safe harbor of the unofficial acts. And that's why we need to have that hearing before Judge Chutkan as soon as possible. It's kind of a mini trial to go through these allegations of 2020 attempted coup and make that determination. The nation and indeed the world is now waiting to see what the judge will do to make that assessment. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: U.S. House Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is seeking articles of impeachment against Supreme Court justices, she wrote on X, the Supreme Court has become consumed by a corruption crisis beyond its control. She added that the ruling represents an assault on American democracy.
 
It's up to Congress to defend our nation from this authoritarian capture. I intend on filing articles of impeachment upon our return. Ocasio-Cortez did not say which justices should be impeached, but her references to corruption align with Democratic allegations against Justices Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas. 
 
A surge of support at the polls for France's far-right in the first round of parliamentary elections. What might the second round of voting bring? We'll take a closer look.
 
Plus, former Donald Trump adviser Steve Bannon rallied supporters outside a federal prison before he started his four-month sentence. What he told them, that's just ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone.
 
France's top political leaders are eyeing the second round of parliamentary elections after the first saw the far right take the lead. Now, rivals of the National Rally are seeking a united front in hopes of preventing them from reaching an absolute majority. 
 
Most candidates elected in the first round represent National Rally and its allies. Projections show the far right party could win as many as 280 seats in the lower house after the second round on Sunday. Today marks the deadline for candidates to confirm whether they will compete. France's current prime minister is issuing a warning ahead of the decisive vote.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GABRIEL ATTAL, FRENCH PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Quite sincerely, the stakes are so high for the French that I'm secondary in all this. What I want is to avoid the R.N. having an absolute majority because I sincerely believe that would be catastrophic for the French, for our pensioners and their savings. And I want a National Assembly where our candidates carry enough weight to protect the French people from the disastrous projects that have been put forward in this campaign.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: CNN's Melissa Bell has more details from Paris. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Jubilation mixed with disbelief. France's far-right supporters celebrating their historic win. The long controversial party's lead in the first round of parliamentary elections. But that was hardly surprising given the National Rally's victory in European elections last month. 
 
SEN. HELENE CONWAY-MOURET, FRENCH SOCIALIST PARTY: When I saw the figures yesterday of people voting, I kind of felt, well, you know, they do not want the extreme right. But in fact, it's a vote that has been consolidated from the three weeks ago, the European elections, where we thought maybe it was just a message. No, it's not a message. It's an actual movement.
 
BELL (voice-over): Marine Le Pen's party held just 88 seats in parliament before Macron called the snap elections. Now it leads the votes, securing outright 38 seats in the first round, with projections showing that it leads the race in more than half of 501 seats that are up for grabs in the second round. The far-right now poised for a parliamentary majority, with the remaining question of whether or not it will be absolute. And with that, whether the 28-year-old Jordan Bardella will become the next prime minister. 
 
JORDAN BARDELLA, NATIONAL RALLY PRESIDENT (through translator): I'm the only one in this election who can talk about the substance and the day-to-day concerns of the French people, purchasing power, security and immigration. 
 
BELL (voice-over): But it is on France's relationship with the rest of the world that some of the biggest questions arise, in particular, what a far-right French government would mean for Europe and for Ukraine.
 
DONALD TUSK, POLISH PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This is all really starting to smell of great danger. Not only the results of the first round of the French elections, but also the information about Russian influence and Russian services, many parts of the radical right in Europe. 
 <br>[03:24:46]
 
BELL (voice-over): Long seen as a fringe party, considered too toxic by some to be electable, its move to center stage has led to calls for the country to unite against it ahead of this Sunday's second round of voting, which will see an unprecedented number of races between three candidates representing the far-right, the left-wing New Popular Front Alliance, which came second, and Emmanuel Macron's centrist Ensemble coalition.
 
Within that coalition, the Renaissance Party, eight years after it was created, looks set to be the main victim of an election its founder never even had to call.
 
Melissa Bell, CNN Paris. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: The Biden campaign is in damage control mode after the U.S. president's poor debate performance last week. Mr. Biden is vowing to stay in the race with his family's support, and Democrats are mostly sticking by him. But there are talks behind closed doors that things could change. One Democratic lawmaker told CNN that his colleagues would feel compelled to speak out if polling and research show that Mr. Biden's performance could cost them the House in November.
 
Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is trying to calm fears that Biden is losing his footing on the world stage. He says allies see Mr. Biden as a president who's reinvested America in the world. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Well, I think what the world knows, the world has experienced over three and a half years, not one night is exactly the kind of leadership that he's brought to bear on problems that are common for so many countries, particularly so many of the democracies around the world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: CNN political and national security analyst David Sanger joins me now from Berlin. He's also a "New York Times" White House and national security correspondent. Great to have you with us.
 
DAVID SANGER, CNN POLITICAL AND NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST AND WHITE HOUSE AND NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER, "NEW YORK TIMES": Good to be with you, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: So we are seeing high anxiety across Europe and within NATO in the wake of President Biden's dismal debate performance Thursday night and after the first round of French parliamentary elections Sunday, which saw the far right take a commanding lead. How deep is the concern that the vulnerability of both Joe Biden and Emmanuel Macron could threaten support for Ukraine in its war with Russia? 
 
SANGER: You know, I really haven't seen anything like this in modern times, Rosemary. I'm not sure any of us have. We start with the U.S. Former President Trump had a pretty remarkable four days of events that people had not predicted would break his way. First, of course, came the disastrous performance that the president had during the -- the debate. 
 
Then, of course, came the Supreme Court decision yesterday that vastly increases presidential power, but also probably will result in the dismissal of a number, not all, but a number of the charges against Mr. Trump. 
 
Then comes the French election, as you point out. And it's part of the wave of a move to the right. And I'm here in Germany. And I have to say, among the Germans I've spoken to so far, including a number of former German leaders and diplomats and so forth. I think their -- their concern about the next few months and years is that you could simply see support for Ukraine crater, but more importantly, the pushback on Russia crater.
 
CHURCH: Yeah, interesting. Of course, many critics of Joe Biden's debate performance have suggested that if he's not replaced by a younger candidate at the Democratic Convention in August, then Trump will win this 2024 race. What would a Trump win mean for Europe and, of course, NATO? 
 
SANGER: Well, I think Mr. Trump's been pretty clear. I think it would look a lot like the first Trump term. But you have to think of it as less like the first three years of that Trump term and more like the last year. 
 
You know, one of the things I think the allies, American allies, benefited from in the first years of the Trump presidency is Mr. Trump really didn't know how to use the levers of power.
 
By his fourth year in office, he was beginning to understand. He didn't surround himself initially with loyalists. He surrounded himself with people who he thought looked like they fit well into the job. He won't make that mistake again. So I think you would end up with a Trump cabinet that looked a lot more like what you saw in 2019, say, than what you saw in 2017. 
 
And the support for NATO, I think, would be a razor thin. I think all of the major allies would think that they could not necessarily rely on the U.S. to come to their aid. And I think for -- for states like Germany that don't have an independent nuclear force, Britain and France, of course, do.
 <br>[03:30:00] 
 
They're going to wonder about the quality of their ability to rely on the U.S. 
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: And David, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is downplaying the impact of President Biden's debate performance and the perception of American leadership overseas. He insists that U.S. allies are judging President Biden on what he's done over the last three and a half years, not on this one debate. Is that the case? 
 
SANGER: You know, it may well be the case, and I wouldn't doubt Secretary Blinken on this, but they're not thinking about what the president has done over the next over the past three and a half years. They're thinking about the next four years and what that could look like.
 
And there, their choices don't seem to be terrific. President Biden's performance clearly led a number of European officials, as it led many Americans, to wonder whether or not he can make it through four years able to do the kind of leadership that he's been able to perform in the past for. And the alternative of former President Trump returning to power
 
 brings up all of the issues that we were just discussing. So while I think even if you accept the secretary's view of Mr. Biden in the past three and a half years, I don't think that's where the allies are focused right now. They're focused on the future. 
 
CHURCH: David Sanger, I appreciate your analysis. Thank you so much for joining us. 
 
SANGER: Thank you. 
 
CHURCH: And still to come, how Donald Trump is using the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on presidential immunity to challenge his hush money conviction. We're back with that in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Former U.S. President Donald Trump is trying to get his hush money conviction overturned in New York. Sources say his attorney sent a letter to the judge hours after the Supreme Court ruled that Trump does have immunity when it comes to his official acts as president.
 
Trump's team says the ruling backs up their claim that some evidence should have been barred from the trial, including witness testimony and social media posts from when Trump was president. They have suggested postponing his sentencing next week. CNN reached out to the district attorney's office, but they had no comment.
 
In another blockbuster decision from the Supreme Court on Monday, the justices declined to rule on Texas and Florida laws meant to protect conservative viewpoints on social media. It means the laws will remain blocked in those states while the lower courts sort out the constitutional questions involved.
 
The laws aim to place limits on how websites like Facebook and YouTube moderate their content. Proponents say it would help guarantee freedom of speech on the Internet. But critics believe it would make social media an unworkable mess. 
 
Well, meantime, Donald Trump's former adviser, Steve Bannon, is now in a federal prison in Connecticut. Bannon reported to the facility on Monday to serve a four month sentence for defying a congressional subpoena. CNN's Sara Murray has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEVE BANNON, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE STRATEGIST: It's time for me to surrender up at Danbury.
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Steve Bannon reporting to federal prison in Connecticut with his usual extremist fanfare. BANNON: I have not only no regrets, I'm actually proud of what I did.
 
 And I felt terrible if I didn't do it. I don't mind going to prison today. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): The far-right podcast host. 
 
BANNON: You're hosted tonight by federal prisoner number 05635509, formerly Stephen K. Bannon.
 
MURRAY (voice-over): Joined by a smattering of Trump supporters, Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene and his daughter, Maureen, in his final sendoff ahead of his four-month sentence. 
 
MAUREEN BANNON, STEVE BANNON'S DAUGHTER: Steve Bannon's voice will not be silenced while he's in there. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): The one time White House chief strategist was convicted in 2022 of two counts of contempt of Congress after defying a subpoena from the House committee that investigated the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol.
 
LIZ CHENEY (R), THEN VICE-CHAIR, HOUSE JANUARY 6TH COMMITTEE: He said all hell would break loose on January 6th, and he was right. Ask that over 140 Capitol Police officers who fought for hours and were injured. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): Bannon tried and failed to postpone his sentence while he appeals his conviction. Now he's the second former Trump aide to head to prison for contempt of Congress after Peter Navarro began serving his four month sentence earlier this year. Now, Bannon is banking on Trump to get reelected in November --  
 
BANNON: The message of President Trump is very simple. Fight on. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): -- and promising revenge. 
 
BANNON: I don't give two (expletive) about going to Danbury prison, OK? Well, here's what I give (expletive) about. We're going to take down Merrick Garland, Lisa Monaco and the corrupt DOJ and the FBI and all of it.
 
MURRAY (voice-over): In custody, Bannon was expected to endure the same treatment as any other prisoner passing through a metal detector, undergoing a strip search and reporting to his housing unit. 
 
UNKNOWN: We will be here in four months to collect him in good health, maybe a little thinner. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): But Bannon's universe is shrinking. He won't have access to Internet and he'll have a limited number of phone minutes each month to use in 15 minute increments on a wall mounted phone. 
 
BANNON: I'm totally prepared mentally, physically, everything for prison. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): Preparing to turn himself in, Bannon projected an air of defiance, insisting his show would go on, even though he will be barred from running the business from prison.
 
BANNON: It's next man up. They can't stop this. This is our power. Our power is right here. 
 
MURRAY: Now, Steve Bannon's prison consultant, Sam Mangal, put out a statement after Bannon was taken into custody, saying he worked with Bannon to prepare him for the practical realities of life here at this low security prison. He also noted that Bannon is going to be in a housing unit for veterans because, of course, Bannon served in the U.S. Navy. 
 
Sara Murray, CNN, Danbury, Connecticut. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: A judge has declared a mistrial in the murder trial of Karen Reid. The Massachusetts woman was accused of drunkenly driving into her police officer boyfriend and leaving him to die in 2022. The jury told the judge twice Monday it could not reach a verdict. The state trooper who helped lead the investigation was also relieved of his duty. He had admitted on the witness stand to sending sexist and offensive text messages about the defendant to friends. Here's what Reid's attorney had to say after the ruling.
 <br>[03:40:04]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALAN JACKSON, ATTORNEY FOR KAREN REID: This is what it looks like when you bring false charges against an innocent person. The Commonwealth did their worst. They brought the weight of the state based on spurious charges, based on compromised investigation and investigators and compromised witnesses. This is what it looks like. And guess what? They failed. They failed miserably, and they'll continue to fail no matter how long it takes, no matter how long they keep trying. We will not stop fighting. We have no quit. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Police in Australia have arrested a 14 year old boy after an apparent stabbing at the University of Sydney's Camperdown campus. Authorities say a 22 year old man was treated at the scene, then taken to hospital where he's in serious but stable condition. Police say there's no longer a threat to the community. A counterterrorism unit is investigating.
 
Still to come, deadly protests last week have not stopped Kenyans from calling for an end to government corruption. More on their plans to organize today when we return. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: As the war in Gaza nears 10 months, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says his forces are close to eliminating Hamas in the territory.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): We are advancing to the end of the phase of eliminating the terrorist army of Hamas, and there will be a continuation to strike its remnants. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Mr. Netanyahu also said he visited his Gaza division on Sunday and saw very considerable achievements in the fighting in Rafah. Before launching the military operation in Rafah in May, Israeli leaders had said that the southern Gaza City was the last stronghold of Hamas.
 
Meantime, Israel has ordered residents in several parts of Khan Younis to evacuate immediately after rockets were fired from the area toward Israel. 
 <br>[03:45:06]
 
Residents say they received audio messages from Israeli phone numbers on Monday, asking them to leave. 
 
Kenyan activists are calling for crowds to fill the streets today to protest government corruption and demand President William Ruto step down. It comes amid calls for police and government accountability for the deaths of protesters last week. Youth led demonstrations erupted over a controversial finance bill that Kenya's president ultimately threw out. 
 
CNN's Victoria Rubadiri is covering this live for us from Nairobi. She joins us now live. So, Victoria, what is planned for today's protests? 
 
I think we're having problems with Victoria. We will try to come back to her after a short break. 
 
But a striker brought to tears ahead of what caused Cristiano Ronaldo to break down on the field as Portugal battles Slovenia at the Euro 2024. Back with that in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
CHURCH: OK, so let's go back to CNN's Victoria Rubadiri, who's covering protests called by activists in Kenya. She joins us live from Nairobi. So, Victoria, what's planned for today's protests? 
 
VICTORIA RUBADIRI, CNN REPORTER: Well, the youth expect to occupy literally everywhere, Rosemary. They moved from their targets of last week, which were State House and Parliament, to literally major roads across the country.
 
And what they're protesting is the biggest, having the president step down to essentially resign. They're also calling for dealing with corruption in the country, as well as hiring of doctors and teachers, bringing down the high cost of living. Those are just a few of the issues that will bring them to the streets today.
 
Right now, it's relatively quiet, though. We're seeing a police presence across town. But what we expect to be a bit different from the protests today, Rosemary, will be the use of excessive force by police. By that, we mean last week, the high court had banned police from using tear gas, water cannons and live ammunition against the protesters. The president also committed to not having a military presence in the streets. 
 
That is unless things escalated and that would be a last resort. So we'll be monitoring to see if police show some level of restraint today. 
 
CHURCH: All right. Our thanks to Victoria Rubadiri joining us live from Nairobi. I Appreciate it. 
 
Well, it is the end of the road for Team USA and the Copa America after losing to Uruguay on Monday. Members say they didn't play well enough to win and their fighting spirit was visibly crushed after Uruguay scored in the second half. The loss raises questions about Coach Greg Berhalter's position. He remains deeply unpopular with some American fans who could push for him to be replaced ahead of the 2026 World Cup. 
 
Portugal is now set to face off against France at Euro 2024 after both teams advanced to the quarterfinals on Monday. CNN World Sport's Don Riddell has all the highlights and drama from the tournament. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, just an absolutely remarkable sequence of events in Frankfurt on Monday night between Portugal and Slovenia. This was a game that had to be decided on penalties, but it was actually a penalty in extra time of this game that made all the headlines.
 
It finished goalless after 90 minutes. Cristiano Ronaldo had that penalty saved towards the end of the first period of extra time, and he was just a mess afterwards. Look at that. He was absolutely distraught. Had to be consoled by his teammate. The game went to penalties.
 
Portugal saved the first one. Then Ronaldo was up and he made it much to his relief. 
 
Portugal scored all of their penalties. Slovenia only got to take three. And the Portuguese goalie Diego Costa saved all of them. Absolutely remarkable drama in Frankfurt. It is Portugal and Cristiano Ronaldo who progressed to the quarterfinals. 
 
The other game on Monday was a game that had the potential to be a blockbuster clash between France and Belgium in Dusseldorf. Unfortunately, it didn't at all live up to the hype, but it might at least have served as a bit of a distraction for any French fans who are concerned about the political situation back home right now. This was a largely uneventful game. It seemed to be heading for extra time until the 85th minute when the French went in front with an own goal. Substitute Colomwane's shot was turned in by the very unfortunate Belgian defender Jan Vertonghen. And that was the difference in the end. Les Bleus edging it by a goal to nil. France have yet to inspire at the Euros this summer, but they are at least into the quarterfinals on Friday when they will face Portugal.
 
It's going to be Ronaldo versus Mbappe. That is a pretty epic showdown. Can't wait. Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: A video gaming Italian teenager will become the Catholic Church's first millennial saint. Carlo Acutis was so renowned for using his computer skills to spread awareness of the Catholic faith. He earned the nickname God's Influencer. He died from leukemia in 2006 at the age of 15. The pope approved his canonization on Monday.
 
Being recognized as a saint usually takes decades, but this case has moved swiftly with the teenager developing a devoted following across the world. Some say Acutis' story might help the church better connect with younger people. 
 
Researchers say more than a quarter of Albania's butterfly species are at risk due to urbanization and climate change. CNN's Elisa Rafa explains how the decline of the butterfly is making room for destructive, invasive moths. 
 <br>[03:54:59]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST (voice-over): Nets in hand, students and professors from the University of Tirana explore the hills of southwestern Albania, identifying what is left of the yellow, black, red and blue butterfly known as the Alexanor. 
 
FJONA SKENDERI, UNIVERSITY OF TIRANA STUDENT (through translator): Human activity and climate change have had a major impact on nature, taking along with butterflies and other already extinct species a piece of my soul and happiness.
 
RAFFA (voice-over): After collecting, students gather around to observe the butterflies as the professor inspects them. This butterfly pavilion displays a diverse array of unique species, shapes and sizes. But sadly, this museum may be the last place many of them will be seen. Scientists warn that 58 of the country's 207 butterfly species are at risk, blaming rapid urbanization, pesticides and warming temperatures. 
 
ALTIN HILLA, AGRONOMIST (through translator): This year was the most disastrous for butterflies, and I think, according to my experience, it is linked mainly to the climate. 
 
RAFFA (voice-over): Expert Altin Hilla explains that the life cycle of these insects is being disrupted by climate change. With warmer temperatures in January and February, the eggs hatch early, but then the larvae can't survive the cooler temperatures in April. And as butterfly populations decline, some non-native moths are flourishing. 
 
ABDULLA DIKU, FOREST ENGINEER (through translator): The Chinese boxwood moth is a pest that has arrived in Albania in recent years, causing big damage to our forest ecosystem across all of the country, from north to south, east to west, destroying at least 80 percent of the boxwood forest.
 
RAFFA (voice-over): It adds up to a complex series of negative impacts that all began with a butterfly. 
 
Elisa Raffa, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And thanks so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Have yourselves a wonderful day. "CNN Newsroom" continues next with my colleague Max Foster.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)