Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Democratic National Convention to be held in Chicago on Monday; Secretary Blinken to Meet Netanyahu and Gallant for Ceasefire Deal; CNN Gains Access to Ukrainian-held Russian Town. "Uncommitted" DNC Delegates Want Answers From Harris On Gaza; Iran Weights Possible Retaliation Against Israel; Ernesto Regains Cat. 1 Hurricane Strength En Route To Canada. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired August 19, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[02:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN HOST:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and to everyone streaming us on CNN Max, I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead, after a whirlwind four weeks that have fundamentally reshaped the U.S. presidential race, a reinvigorated Democratic Party prepares to kick off its convention in Chicago.
 
America's top diplomat arrives in Israel ready to make a fresh push for a ceasefire and hostage release deal, saying right now is the best and maybe the last chance to get something done. And --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  You can see the damage that's been done to the street. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Inside Ukraine's surprise incursion, CNN gains access to one of the Russian border towns recently captured by Ukrainian troops. 
 
Good to have you with us. And we are just hours away from the start of the Democratic National Convention where the party is hoping to build on the momentum sparked by Kamala Harris and her dramatic rise to the top of the ticket. Delegates from across the country have gathered in Chicago for the four-day event. The theme of day one, "For the People."
 
President Joe Biden, the man who many once thought would be accepting the nomination, will deliver remarks on opening night. Former President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, are expected to address the convention Tuesday. On Wednesday, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz will deliver his speech. And on Thursday night, Kamala Harris will accept the Democratic nomination for president. 
 
Harris spent Sunday on the campaign trail in the key battleground state of Pennsylvania alongside her running mate, Tim Walz. During one stop, she appeared to call rival Donald Trump a coward without mentioning him by name.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  This campaign is about a recognition that, frankly, over the last several years, there's been this kind of perversion that has taken place, I think, which is to suggest -- which is to suggest that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat down. When what we know is the real and true measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you lift up. Anybody who's about beating down other people is a coward.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Harris is looking to keep the enthusiasm going as the race remains tight. The latest CNN poll of polls, which includes the most recent national surveys, shows no clear leader with Harris at 50 percent support and Trump at 48 percent. CNN's Jeff Zeleny is following developments and has more now from Chicago.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  The Democratic National Convention opens on Monday night in Chicago where Vice President Kamala Harris now is the party's standard bearer. But President Joe Biden will arrive here in Chicago and deliver something of a valedictory, talking about his accomplishments and his record in office before turning the page and literally passing the torch to his vice president. 
 
There is no doubt this party is in an entirely different place than it was just one month ago before President Biden made that difficult decision to step aside. But after he addresses the convention on Monday night, he will take his leave and this will be Vice President Harris's party, her convention. She's campaigning across Pennsylvania on Sunday, making her way here to Chicago. She talked a bit about her speech and called herself an underdog in this race.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  There's obviously a lot at stake, but there's also a lot to feel good about in terms of the future of our country. So there will be a lot that is about what I believe is a way forward, a new way forward and bringing everyone along in that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENY:  The vice president making the case there that she's still working on her speech. And clearly, this is a big moment for her, one for her to introduce herself to the country, fill in some of those blanks for what people may not know about her. Of course, she's famous in some respects in political circles, but also so much is unknown about her. And that's what this convention is also about.
 
Former presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton will be making the argument for her, trying to give Democrats a roadmap and draw a contrast with former President Donald Trump. Of course, in the final some 70, 75 days of this campaign, she is certainly in a much better position than President Biden was. 
 <br>[02:04:58]
 
But the purpose of this convention is to try and build on that momentum here in Chicago and take it for the rest of the general election that is still a very, very tight race to come. Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Chicago. 
 
CHURCH:  Joining me now from Los Angeles is Caroline Heldman, a democratic strategist and professor of critical theory and social justice. Appreciate you joining us. 
 
CAROLINE HELDMAN, PROFESSOR, CRITICAL THEORY &amp; SOCIAL JUSTICE:  Good to see you, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  So we're just hours away from the DNC getting underway, and Vice President Kamala Harris is calling herself the underdog, despite enjoying a honeymoon period that's put her ahead of rival Donald Trump in some key battleground states and in national polls. That's boosting morale, of course, within the party. But how tough will this fight be for Harris? And can she maintain that momentum with panicked Republicans suggesting the honeymoon is over? 
 
HELDMAN:  Well, Donald Trump is really giving her this honeymoon, right? He is not staying on script. He's not doing what his handlers and his campaign are telling him to do, which is stop the personal attacks and focus on policy. Instead, he is going into these grievances. He's talking, for example, about how he's better looking than Kamala Harris or how a magazine cover didn't reflect her. It looked more like his wife.
 
So he is giving her this honeymoon period. I think she may have seen a slowing of that had he actually given her some competition. At the end of the day, you're right, Rosemary. She has really bounced. I mean, three weeks in the polls, five out of seven key swing states. She is ahead in national polls. She's finally pulled ahead enough that she's out of the margin of error. 
 
But she's right. She's an underdog. There are many pathways to 270 for both Donald Trump and for Kamala Harris. And I would say don't discount the bias that women and especially women of color face when they're going for the highest office that is so often associated with masculinity. 
 
CHURCH:  And Caroline, how will the DNC differ from the RNC and how much effort will go into trying to contrast the hope and joy offered by the Democratic ticket compared to the fear and gloom on the Republican side? 
 
HELDMAN:  Well, you noted that the Republican National Convention was really talking about how they were going to win. There were a shoo-in. But Kamala Harris is going to be talking about how she's an underdog. So that'll be a big difference in the framing, I think. Another big difference is we will see past presidents from the Democratic Party. Donald Trump kind of burned the Republican Party down and rebuilt it in his own image. So you didn't see George W. Bush there. But you will definitely see,
 
 as we know, we'll see Bill Clinton. We'll see Barack Obama. We'll even see Jimmy Carter's grandson. We're going to see Hillary Clinton, Michelle Obama. So the party royalty will be there as a sign of continuity. Of course, Joe Biden, who will be passing the baton. All of this is vitally important because it validates her leadership. And she has such a short period of time to prove that she is up for the task. And you'll notice, you know, one of the criticisms they've lobbied at her is that she's not doing a lot of interviews and that sort of thing. She's really being cautious about how she's defining herself early on. 
 
CHURCH:  And how much will the controversial issue of abortion feature this week with Democrats highlighting a woman's right to choose? And how will the party deal with the high number of pro-Palestinian protesters expected to turn up as they try to put a spotlight on the Biden administration's support for Israel and its war in Gaza? 
 
HELDMAN:  Well, we know that there will be protesters outside starting tonight in Chicago and every single night. But she has and the Democratic Party has put an immediate ceasefire on the agenda. Harris seems to be more aggressive and appealing to young voters. And indeed, we've seen a swing with young voters supporting Harris more so than Biden. Abortion is going to be a huge issue. We also know the economy is going to be a big issue. The tax on billionaires, you know, cutting costs. 
 
And I would also add to that one of the party platforms that will be highlighted is clean energy. So taxes on billionaires, clean energy, abortion and a ceasefire, I think, are themes we're going to hear a lot this week. 
 
CHURCH:  And what are the main highlights that we should look out for and how will Trump deal with all the attention being focused on Harris and the Democrats this week? 
 
HELDMAN:  Great question. I think we'll probably see what we have seen, which is when Harris has the headlines and the spotlight, Donald Trump doesn't like it. He goes off script. He has maybe, you know, unscripted moments, some meltdowns. I would imagine that he is not going to respond positively. He'll have a lot of counterprogramming. And we will see Donald Trump in kind of his most untethered form, which, again, you know, his folks are definitely trying to rein him in.
 
CHURCH:  Caroline Heldman, many thanks for joining us. Appreciate it. 
 
HELDMAN:  Thank you, Rosemary.
 <br>[02:10:00]
 
CHURCH:  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says the current ceasefire proposal could be the last chance to get Israel's hostage's home. He met a short time ago with Israeli President Isaac Herzog in Tel Aviv as he tries to push for a ceasefire and hostage release deal. Blinken says this is a crucial time in the negotiating process. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  This is a decisive moment, probably the best, maybe the last opportunity to get the hostages home, to get a ceasefire and to put everyone on a better path to enduring peace and security. It's also time to make sure that no one takes any steps that could derail this process. And so we're working to make sure that there is no escalation, that there are no provocations, that there are no actions that in any way could move us away from getting this deal over the line.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Blinken will meet separately with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Yoav Gallant later today. Netanyahu says Israel will not give in to demands to end the war in Gaza as a condition for a deal. And Hamas claims Netanyahu is obstructing a possible agreement. 
 
In Gaza, hospital officials say an Israeli strike on Sunday killed six children and their mother and injured their father. Since the start of the war last October, more than 40,000 Palestinians have been killed and much of Gaza has been reduced to rubble. CNN's Jennifer Hansler has more on the ceasefire talks and Blinken's Middle East mission.
 
JENNIFER HANSLER, CNN STATE DEPARTMENT REPORTER:  Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived here in Israel on Sunday evening ahead of high- stakes talks on Monday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant, as well as the Israeli President Isaac Herzog. 
 
Now, these talks are perhaps the highest stakes ones he has held here in Israel on his ninth trip to the region, as he is pushing for a ceasefire and hostage release deal in Gaza to come to a close. U.S. officials have expressed extreme optimism around this deal. They have said that it is in its end stages and at an inflection point, and some have even suggested a deal could come together this week. 
 
Now, Blinken is here for difficult conversations with the Israeli government, urging them to take the deal to make sure that this can come into fruition. Now, the U.S. optimism comes in contrast from things we're hearing from Hamas, for example, who has suggested that the deal is too beholden to Israel, as well as the prime minister's office, who says they are not going to go to the demands of the Israeli government.
 
So we will be watching closely what comes out of Blinken's meetings here in Israel. He will then travel on to Egypt to continue discussions around the need for a ceasefire deal, as well as what happens in the day after these plans come together. Jennifer Hansler, CNN Tel Aviv.
 
CHURCH:  Gideon Levy is a columnist for the "Haaretz" newspaper and a former advisor to Shimon Peres. He joins me now from Tel Aviv. Appreciate you being with us.
 
GIDEON LEVY, COLUMNIST, HAARETZ NEWSPAPER:  Thank you. 
 
CHURCH:  So U.S. officials are optimistic about this latest round of talks for a ceasefire and hostage release deal. But now Hamas says Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is obstructing a possible agreement by adding new conditions, while Netanyahu says Israel will not give in to demands to end the Gaza war as a condition for a deal. So how can this end in a negotiated deal, do you think? 
 
LEVY:  I wish I could share the optimism of the American negotiators, but I think they think that spreading optimism will bring a deal. But it doesn't work like this and it seems now that we are very far from a deal, and spreading optimism is not the way to bring a deal. Your reporter just mentioned now that Blinken is urging the Israelis to go for the deal. No, it's not about urging them. It's about taking measures, because urging the Israelis will not change their mind.
 
And Israel wants to continue this war, at least the Israeli prime minister and the Israeli cabinet. And as long as the United States will not turn into real actions, real pressure and not talking, nothing will move, I'm afraid. 
 
CHURCH:  But U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, he says he will meet separately with Netanyahu and Defense Minister Yoav Gallant to push ahead with ceasefire talks. What is it that he needs to say then to make a deal happen? Is there anything he can say? Would he use leverage, perhaps, with weapons from the United States? 
 
LEVY:  That's the only way. He does not need to say much, and he is saying too much. He needs to explain to Israel that it is the interest of Israel and the United States and the world to stop this war immediately.
 <br>[02:15:02]
 
And he has the best leverage to do so, namely supplying Israel weapons and ammunition. As long as he does not use this leverage, all the talkings are really hollow. I'm sorry to say so, but they are really hollow.
 
And Israel knows to ignore those good advices from the good friend in Washington. No, that's not the way. The way now, because the situation is so serious and at stake is no less than preventing a regional war with a lot of possible bloodshed, the way now is to move from talkings to real actions. You want our aid? We are very happy to supply it, but it must be conditioned in stopping this war today. 
 
CHURCH:  Iran, of course, meantime, is still weighing a possible retaliation against Israel for the killing of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh, saying revenge is coming. Could Iranian retaliation be averted if, by some miracle, a deal is reached in the next few days, perhaps weeks? 
 
LEVY:  The Iranians say so, and Hezbollah says so, and the real danger right now is Hezbollah more than Iran, because Hezbollah is much more eager to retaliate for the assassinations. And Hezbollah was very clear once there is a ceasefire, we will get into diplomatic negotiations about the border with Lebanon. 
 
In any case, a ceasefire will create a new atmosphere, and in this atmosphere, it will be very hard, neither for Iran nor for Hezbollah, to continue their attacks on Israel, sure not direct attacks. So the key is stopping the war, and the key to this key is in American hands, I'm afraid.
 
CHURCH:  And critics say Netanyahu doesn't want a ceasefire deal. You've pretty much said this yourself. Some go even further, suggesting he is sabotaging US efforts to make a deal. Do you agree with that assessment? 
 
LEVY:  I agree. I tend to think that he does not do it only, as most of the commentators say, only because of personal reasons, namely that he knows that his government will not continue to serve the moment their war is over. I don't think that's his only consideration. I think also he does not believe in any agreement with the Palestinians, and this is true for all his years, that he does not believe in any kind of settlement with the Palestinians.
 
And maybe, I hope I'm wrong, but maybe he sees this time now as an opportunity to attack Iran together with the Americans. This is a very explosive and dangerous scenario, but he might want to push the United States into a war against Iran, which will so-called solve the problem of the Iranian nuclear. I hope he does not go so far, and if he does, that's a very dangerous adventure.
 
CHURCH:  Yeah, very sobering indeed. Gideon Levy, joining us from Tel Aviv. Many thanks for your analysis. Appreciate it. 
 
LEVY:  Thank you. 
 
CHURCH:  The sound of war is not far away and a Russian town recently captured by Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALSH:  The sound of small arms fire we can still hear, so clearly there is a bid for the Russians to push back, but it simply isn't working, and the humiliation for Putin endures.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Still ahead, CNN gains access to the town of Sudza where Russian troops have fled, but hardship for civilians is far from gone. Back with that and more in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:00]
 
CHURCH:  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country's forces continue to make progress inside Russian territory, gaining a stronger foothold and reinforcing their positions in the Kursk region. They also say they destroyed a second bridge in the past few days using precision airstrikes, likely further disrupting Russia's supply lines. 
 
It's been nearly two weeks since the surprise incursion, and Ukrainian forces say they now control more than 1,000 square kilometers of territory in south-western Russia. CNN was among the first news organizations to go into the part of Russia's Kursk region now controlled by Ukraine. We were accompanied by Ukraine's military, which reviewed the video you're about to see for operational security reasons, but the military did not hear the sound and had no editorial control. Here's CNN's Nick Payton Walsh. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (voice-over):  This was never in Putin's plan, but still, into Russia we cross with Ukrainian forces moving forwards. Through the border post they destroyed in their surprise assault 10 days ago. 
 
(On camera):  As we get closer towards Sudza, we can see more smoke on the horizon, but still it's bizarrely calm on this road.
 
(Voice-over):  Pause a moment in these open fields, and remember this is the Cold War superpower. Unguarded, open, and never expecting when Russian President Vladimir Putin launched his war of choice two years ago to be invaded back. A Russian dead soldier still in the road. Ukraine only claimed here a day ago. 
 
(On camera):  Well, not even the statue of Lenin is unscathed here. This Ukrainian assault, so persistent, and Russia, despite its sense of history and sort of past as being so impregnable, completely unable to push the Ukrainians out here. The sound of small arms fire we can still hear, so clearly there is a bid for the Russians to push back, but it simply isn't working and the humiliation for Putin endures. 
 
(Voice-over):  Days ago locals had honored their war dead, but none since the Nazis led Russia to face occupation. 
 
(On camera):  You can see the damage that's been done to this street here from the intense fight that raged. Still, clearly active fighting happening here. 
 
(Voice-over):  A sign, in the basement here, live peaceful people, no soldiers. Ina, 68, says 60 civilians are there.
 
UNKNOWN (through translation):  The Ukrainians brought a lot of boxes. There is food.
 
WALSH (on camera):  Just like we've seen in multiple Ukrainian towns over the last two years, here the locals trying to find some shelter from the war around them. 
 
(Voice-over):  Danislav (ph) shows his grey. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translation):  It's existing. It's not life. 
 
WALHS (voice-over):  In the dark, huddled like so many Ukrainians now, the infirmed, isolated, begging for calm. UNKNOWN (through translation):  I don't know how it will end. At least
 
 a truce, so we can live peacefully. We don't need anything. I have a crutch, I can't walk. It's very hard.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  Day, night, light, dark, news or blackout, all blur into one. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translation):  A week. No news, we don't know what's happening around us.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  Yefimov (ph) is over 90 and wants to leave to Ukraine, but there is no route out, he says. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translation):  You're the first to come here. My daughter, niece and grandkids are there. I'm Russian, but they are married to Ukrainians.
 <br>[02:25:09]
 
WALSH (voice-over):  Again, ordinary streets that never guessed of their destruction or newfound fame days ago, vacant in the storm around them. Normal life here vanished in a hurry, leaving store floors as barracks. And Nina (ph), 74, out looking for a pharmacy for her medication. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translation):  If I wanted to leave, I would have. Why leave? I've lived here for 50 years. My daughter and mother are buried here. What about Ukraine? I live on my own land. I don't know whose land this is. I don't know anything anymore.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  It is a war that keeps turning the world order on its head, where wreckage that lined Ukraine's fields now haunts Russia's. Ukrainians learn to paint over their road signs to confuse the invaders, but still here, the signs ask God to protect and save Russia. That was Putin's job, it is not clear when he's coming back. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Sudza, Ukrainian-held Russia.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Meanwhile, Russian forces are having more success in eastern Ukraine. They have launched a massive assault around the city of Pokrovsk, a key supply hub for Ukrainian forces in the Donetsk region. Ukraine's president says Russia has targeted the area with 750 guided aerial bombs, 200 unmanned drones and more than 40 missiles in the past week alone.
 
Nearly 2,000 civilians have been evacuated in recent days, and Ukrainian officials are urging anyone still remaining to leave. President Zelenskyy says defense forces are doing everything to hold the positions and have destroyed Russian equipment in another frontline town. 
 
Still to come, dozens of uncommitted Democratic delegates are still not backing Kamala Harris. CNN speaks to some of them to find out why. Plus, Iran is still vowing to retaliate against Israel over the
 
 killing of a top Hamas leader. More on the tensions in the Middle East when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:16]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  More now on our top story this hour, the Democratic National Convention is set to begin in Chicago in the coming hours. 
 
The party will formally nominate Vice President Kamala Harris for the White House after President Joe Biden bowed out last month, Mr. Biden will speak on the opening night Monday. Security is tight across the city as tens of thousands of protesters are expected to march on the convention. 
 
The Illinois governor says around 250 members of the National Guard will be on standby. The speaking lineup features prominent Democratic names and key Harris allies, including Bill and Hillary Clinton, and Barack and Michelle Obama.
 
Well, not all of the delegates have pledged to back Harris's nomination at the convention. Dozens say they will withhold that support until she addresses their concerns about civilian casualties in Gaza. 
 
CNN's Donie O'Sullivan caught up with some of them in Chicago. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ABBAS ALAWIEH, MICHIGAN UNCOMITTED DELEGATE:  We've got 30 uncommitted delegates that are representing over 740,000 uncommitted voters nationwide who voted uncommitted as a pro-peace, anti-war vote in the Democrat primary.
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  This is a meeting of uncommitted Democratic delegates here in Chicago on the eve of the Democratic National Convention. 
 
ALAWIEH:  But it's not sustainable for our own government to fund that the mass killing of civilians.
 
JEREMIAH ELLISON, MINNESOTA UNCOMMITTED DELEGATE:  Folks become delegates at their state party and then they come to the national convention and they are either committed to the candidate -- to one of the candidates or not. In our case, we're not committed because we haven't heard what we wanted to hear, looking for a ceasefire, we're looking for a strong commitment on a cease-fire. We're looking for an arms embargo for us to stop sending weapons that are contributing to the genocide there.
 
ALAWIEH:  I represent some of the over 101,000 voters in Michigan who voted uncommitted as a pro-peace, anti-war vote. LEXIS ZEIDAN, CO-DIRECTOR, LISTEN TO MICHIGAN:  Nobody wants to see
 
 Trump in November. We are a very anti-fascist movement. We are actually doing what we can to save the Democratic Party by saying, listen VP Harris, there is a key base of over 730,000 anti-war voters who are telling you that we want to turn the page on as the policy and save Palestinian lives.
 
O'SULLIVAN:  What do you want to hear from Harris in Chicago this week?
 
ALAWIEH:  I want to hear from Vice President Harris how it is that she's going to turn a new page on Gaza policy from the destructive and disastrous policy of the last ten months to one that saves lives. 
 
O'SULLIVAN:  You got to meet Harris briefly in Michigan.
 
LAYLA ELABED, CO-CHAIR, UNCOMMITTED NATIONAL MOVEMENT:  Yes. We wanted to be able to speak to her directly in the fact that Michigan voters would want to support her in the November election. But we can't do that right now while our family members, our friends, our loved ones, are being killed with U.S.-funded bombs. I told her that we need a policy shift that will save lives in Gaza.
 
My community is telling me that they're losing tens and hundreds of their family members. And she said it's horrific. She's been incredibly empathetic. I do have to say that. More -- we have seen more empathy and compassion from Vice President Harris, but that is not enough. Palestinian children can't eat words. 
 
O'SULLIVAN:  Is there more hope in this movement right now with Harris at the top of the ticket than there was when Biden was there?
 
YAZAN KEDER, WASHINGTON UNCOMMITTED DELEGATE:  I think that in general, we would all say we're cautiously optimistic. There's a little bit more wiggle room we feel like with Vice President Harris. We've already seen her changed the rhetoric a little bit, but words are not enough. 
 
O'SULLIVAN:  You heard some cautious optimism there. Those delegates -- those activists, they're going to be in here, they're going to be in the convention, most of this week, working the room. 
 
Of course, there is expected to be thousands potentially -- tens of thousands of demonstrators outside the convention for the pro- Palestinian cause. And look a question these activists get a lot is, could this uncommitted movement, this saying we will not vote for Harris unless she changes policies on Gaza could that potentially help Trump win the election? Those activists that we spoke to said, that's not their problem. That is for the Harris campaign.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  More details on the tensions in the Middle East.
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is currently in Israel, working to achieve a Gaza ceasefire fire and hostage release deal. There's hope an agreement there could potentially tamper Iran's expected retaliation for the killing of Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran. 
 
But Iranian parliamentarians are still vowing revenge and serious concerns remain over the potential for a wider conflict in the region. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen has this report from Tehran.
 <br>[02:35:02]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over):  Iran says its drones and missiles are ready for an attack against Israel in retaliation for the killing of Hamas chief Ismail Haniyeh, but as tensions remain at a boiling point, Iran's political transition continues.
 
The new president, Masoud Pezeshkian's cabinet appointees going through confirmation hearings in Iran's parliament, the Majles. 
 
Once Masoud Pezeshkian's cabinet has approved by Iran's parliament, the new government will have its work cut out for it. The Middle East, of course, is in severe terminal as the region awaits Iran's possible harsh retaliation for the assassination of Ismael Haniyeh.
 
While Iran's response appears delayed, parliamentarians hearsay, make no mistake. Revenge is coming and will be harsher than Tehran's last strikes against Israel after Iran's consulate in Damascus, Syria, was bombed in April.
 
This time, they attacked our mainland. The world will witness a serious reaction by us. The time, the place, and the type of reaction is to be decided, he says, and then ads, you saw the first example. You can multiply that as much as you'd like. 
 
We will teach our enemies a lesson, so they will not attack us anymore, this parliamentarian says. We are seeking peace and calm in the region and are not warmongers at all. 
 
The U.S. says it's seeking a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas, also in the hopes a deal to end the violence in Gaza could persuade Iran not to launch the retaliatory strikes against Israel.
 
But Washington has also deployed substantial forces to the Middle East, senior Biden administration official warning Iran could face, quote, cataclysmic consequences if it attacks Israel.
 
Iranian parliamentarians brushing off that warning.
 
If they attack or threaten us, the Iranian response will be jaw- breaking, he says. Iran has showed in practice, it will do so and has the means to do so. The capabilities we have are not what the world knows about. They are far beyond.
 
But when, where and how Iran plans to use those capabilities remains shrouded in secrecy, keeping the Middle East on edge.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Tehran.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Still ahead, we are monitoring Hurricane Ernesto as it makes its way north towards Canada. The latest forecast after a short break.
 
Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. 
 
Ernesto is a hurricane once again. The storm regained category one strength on Sunday, but conditions will likely change as it moves toward Canada.
 
CNN meteorologist Elisa Raffa has the latest forecast.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Ernesto has regained hurricane strength as it sits over some warmer waters in the Atlantic. 
 <br>[02:40:03]
 
But as it continues to move north, gets into colder waters, it will weaken some, but it could still bring some hurricane force or tropical storm force winds to parts of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland as we get into the work week here. 
 
The hurricane center in Canada is also warning that there is a brief window for some heavy rain. They're warning for up to 60 millimeters of rain. That's about two inches or more as we go into the workweek, the wind field right now is pretty wide, again, some of these gusts could scrape some of the coast here with some hurricane force or tropical storm force winds. 
 
By late Monday and then going into Tuesday, those winds will kick up some significant wave height, large swells, rough surf up and down the east coast. But as that center gets a little bit closer to parts of Canada, the hurricane center, there is warning that there could be some minor damage to things like docs coastal structures, coastal flooding as well some of these waves kind of kick and try to make their way farther inland. 
 
Like I mentioned, either way, were looking at a risk of rip currents from Miami to Maine, up and down the East Coast, the lot of beaches have been closed all week and would double red flags up meaning that the rip current risk is just too high, it is too dangerous to get into the water. 
 
So please heed those warnings. If you do find yourself in a rip current, remember to swim parallel to the shore to get out of it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Turkish officials warn there is a high risk of wildfires this week and parts of the country due to dry weather and high temperatures. Crews have contained more than 200 fires since Thursday morning, including a large blaze in the western province of Izmir. Other fires are still burning, but Turkey's forestry ministers there's none of them, a cause for concern right now. Turkey has seen intensifying wildfires in recent years, which experts attributed to climate change.
 
Anti-hero icon, a legend, just some of the words used in tribute to the French movie star Alain Delon, who died Sunday at 88. French President Emmanuel Macron posted on X: Melancholic, popular, secretive, he was more than a star, a French monument.
 
With his good looks and cool demeanor, Delon became an international sex symbol, but his attitude toward women and his support for former far right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, made him a polarizing figure. He suffered a stroke in 2019 and rarely left his home after that.
 
I want to thank you so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. "WORLD SPORT" is coming up next. Then I'll be back in about 15 minutes with more CNN NEWSROOM. Please stick around.
 
(WORLD SPORT)