Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Soon: Biden Attends State Dinner With French President Macron, Rescued Israeli Hostages Reunite With Family; Four Israeli Hostages Rescued In Gaza Military Operation; Tuskegee Airman Remembers Flying Missions Over Europe During WWII; Burbank Investigating Incident Of Homeless Man Left On Sidewalk By Officers; Trump To Campaign In Vegas Amid Fundraising Swing Across The West; "Violent Earth With Liev Schreiber" New Episode Airs Tomorrow at 9 PM ET/PT. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired June 08, 2024 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:01:21]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. We're watching several breaking news stories at this hour. Right now, emotional moment in Israel after a dramatic rescue operation frees four hostages from Hamas.
 
Family and friends reuniting with their loved ones after eight months of captivity in Gaza. More on that in a moment.
 
But first, an important moment in the face of worldwide threats to democracy. Two of the world's oldest allies, the United States and France, coming together in Paris. President Biden soon to attend a state dinner at this hour at Elysee Palace. You see people in position, the band in position, the red carpet in position for guests to arrive. The guest of honor, the Bidens, for their arrival for the state dinner.
 
All right. Let's begin with the breaking news underway in France. Right now, President Biden and the first lady soon to arrive there at the Elysee palace in Paris for the state dinner with the French President Emmanuel Macron.
 
It's all part of Biden's high-stakes trip to France, aimed at strengthening the alliance with a critical U.S. ally. And reinforcing the commitment to support Ukraine in its war with Russia.
 
We are looking at pictures right now of more guests arriving. CNN's Melissa Bell is in Paris for us. Melissa, what more can you tell us about the state dinner, how it will all play out, who are among the distinguished guests? We have been looking at folks are arriving there and the purpose behind this dinner -- the importance of the dinner.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: A lot of beautiful people on their way into Elysee Palace.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. BELL: In fact, I just posted on my way to speak to you, Fredricka, and it's a pretty glitzy affair. The entire surrounding area of Paris has been entirely blocked off for ordinary people. But for those invited, I think it's going to be a pretty spectacular occasion. So, it's the state banquet.
 
We expect the president to arrive in a short while. The dinner is due to get underway officially in about 40 minutes, Fredricka. And this is really the culmination of a state visit that has been an awful lot about optics. It's been about President Biden, standing in parts of Normandy that American heroes had helped liberate 80 years ago.
 
Him, speaking to his domestic audience, but to the world as well about the ongoing need to continue helping out Ukraine. And what we saw today was some pretty impressive pageantry from the Champs-Elysees.
 
Remember that today is the day that marks, Fredricka, the official end of World War II. So, the surrender of the Germans. And we celebrated on the eightfold, though the defeat was signed on the seventh, because it's when it came into effect.
 
So, traditionally, each year, Emmanuel Macron, places a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier there at the Arc de Triomphe, and makes his way down the Champs-Elysees. Today, he did it with President Biden.
 
So, again, the optics of that really important. And lots of references over the course of the day from President Biden about France's being America's oldest ally. Very much what we had heard when President Macron, you'll remember, had been received for his first state dinner under the Biden presidency in December of 2022.
 
They have been able to celebrate that alliance then. Now, this dinner tonight about welcoming the American president, in return, reminding the world and again, domestic audiences back in the U.S of the importance of the transatlantic alliance, how anciently, how old it is rooted, of course, in the histories of both United States and France, and really cementing that.
 <br>[13:05:02]
 
So, what you're seeing at the Elysee tonight, and what you've heard very much from both presidents say lots of warm words about their complicity on questions like Ukraine, their intention to go further. Still, to help President Zelenskyy tonight, though, a lot about the pageantry, and the show.
 
The Elysee Palace will deck out, and as I say, a lot of pretty well- known people -- Salma Hayek, actresses Pharrell Williams as well. John Kerry (PH) invited as well ahead. We've watched them arrive ahead of the presidential couple that are due to arrive soon, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: And Melissa, while we've spent a lot of time talking about the messaging on this global stage, coming from the American president, how about the messaging to the French president Macron, because, early on, there were a couple of moments where some feathers were ruffled, right, in terms of during the Biden administration, and France was unnerved by being left out of say like the submarine deal (INAUDIBLE),
 
And how much of this moment is all also about re-solidifying the relationship between these two administrations, even though it is an election year, and there are a lot of frayed nerves of that have been expressed about what could happen in November.
 
But for the present, how much of this was also about, you know, just re-solidifying the relationship between Macron and Biden?
 
BELL: I think you're right, Fredricka, that relationship has come a long way, when you remember that as a result of that orchestra that you mentioned, the submarine deal, stolen as a French twist from under their noses and handed to the Australians by Washington.
 
This, what led to the extraordinary measure of President Macron recalling the French ambassador to Washington, and no one can really remember the last time that, that had happened at the time as I recall.
 
So, it had been a pretty important step in showing just how grieved -- a grieved France was by the move. So, there had been some rebuilding to do.
 
But I think for both presidents, you're right. We've been talking a lot about why this visit and all the messaging that's come from in it matters to President Biden at this particular point, but remember that President Macron is also facing some pretty difficult elections this weekend. European elections are being held across the European Union.
 
The far right is expected to do extremely well. We'll know by tomorrow night, who is -- which parties have done best. But here in France, Emmanuel Macron parties don't expect you to terribly well. So, these, this messaging mattered to him about the importance of the center holding in the face of more conservative forces. I think it was messaging that mattered to both president's domestic audiences. Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Melissa Bell, thank you so much. I hesitated for a moment when we are looking at the pictures, because we are waiting for the live pictures -- the live entrance of President Biden and the first lady.
 
And what we just saw a moment ago, was earlier in the day when they were there at the Elysee Palace.
 
But meantime, we look live pictures right now.
 
Meantime, let's continue this conversation. I want to bring in now CNN contributor Frida Ghitis. She is also a global affairs columnist.
 
Frida, great to see you. I mean, there was so much symbolism over what has transpired during this five-day visit for President Biden, while in France. Is this the moment, this state dinner, is this the punctuation there? Is that, you know, its meaning, the punctuation of this relationship of reestablishing the commitment of the U.S., not just to France, but to all, you know, allies, NATO allies? Is that what this is about?
 
FRIDA GHITIS, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Well, you're right. There is been so much symbolism during this entire visit. And we've seen these visits before we've seen these D-Day commemorations for 80 years. There is never been one quite like this.
 
Europe is facing two threats that are really overshadowing everything that occurs during this visit. One is this Russian war against Ukraine, the other one is the possibility that a president, a former president, who is threatening to change the entire character of the alliance between the United States and Europe could return to power and all these -- all these commitments -- all these reassurances from President Biden are going to be not worth very much.
 
There is a -- there is a story that Biden tells that when he met Macron after taking office, he told them -- he told them, Mr. President, or Emmanuel, whatever he called him, America is back and Macron responded, yes, but for how long? And I think that really encapsulates the anxiety that is -- that one senses in Europe now.
 
WHITFIELD: So, you're not being subtle at all. There is great anxiety right now with these five months ago before elections here in the U.S. about how permanent or how temporary, this rearticulated commitment is.
 
GHITIS: Absolutely.
 <br>[13:10:00]
 
No, Biden has really reinvigorated NATO that he has reinvigorated the Atlantic alliance, the relationship between the United States and Europe. He has made it -- made it a central piece of his -- of his administration to maintain a commitment to Ukraine's survival in the face of this aggression from Russia. And he has repeatedly said that the United States and Europe are a solid, solid alliance.
 
But, no, everybody knows that there is an election coming. And, you know, you talk to people in Europe and they wonder what's going to happen, and there is nothing by them can say that can completely dispel that fear. Because people have heard, you know, they heard Donald Trump himself say that when he was asked by a NATO member if the United States would stand by NATO -- by a non-NATO country if you are attacked, that Trump said, I would encourage Russia to do, in his words, whatever the hell they want if these NATO countries haven't made whatever financial commitments they had -- they had agreed to do. So, it's a -- it's a -- it's a difficult time. It's an anxious time.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Frida Ghitis, thank you so much. I'm going to have you stick around, though, right, because we are awaiting the arrival of President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden there to the state dinner. And then, we also expect that there will be comments coming from Emmanuel Macron, as well as Joe Biden, the presidents of these two nations, France and U.S. during this dinner. And then, I've got you, Frida, to help us through it all. Thank you so much Frida. Appreciate it.
 
All right. Now, to other breaking news, we are following four Israeli hostages, rescued in a daring IDF operation in central Gaza. Palestinians describing the mission as hell on earth, amid a heavy barrage of shelling and artillery fire. Gaza officials say those blasts killed more than 200 people and injured hundreds more.
 
The four hostages are now safe in Israel for the first time, since Hamas abducted them at the Nova music festival on October 7th. Emotional moments right there today as family and friends reunited with their loved ones.
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks and Priscilla Alvarez are tracking all of the developments. Paula, let's go to you. You are outside the hospital where these hostages are still being evaluated. Bring us up to date on their condition, and all that we know about this rescue operation.
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: So, Fred, they all came for their medical checkup here. And now, we heard from one of the doctors who had looked at them saying that they were all stable, and they were all in good medical condition.
 
Some of them still undergoing checks at this point, though, but it has been a day of high emotions here as friends and family have been coming in to see those four Israeli hostages who have spent the last eight months in captivity in Gaza.
 
Now, we heard some of the details of that mission that happened in Nuseirat in central Gaza. From the IDF, we understand it happened at 11:00 a.m., a joint mission between the military, the security agency, and the police that they say was weeks in the planning.
 
The Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu giving the green light for it to go ahead on Thursday. Now, they say it was focused on two buildings that they entered to try and rescue these four hostages. They say, they were under fire as they went in and as they left. But you see images of those hostages on board, the helicopters touching down in Israel. Celebrations, relief on their faces.
 
And we've been hearing from some of the families of those that were released, saying there are more that needs to be released. The 120 more. All of them that we've heard from, they are calling for a ceasefire deal. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Paula, what more have you heard about these some 200 people that were killed in the middle of this operation and 400 others injured.?
 
HANCOCKS: Yes, Fred. The price paid for this mission has been unquestionably high. We do have images from our CNN producer on the ground, I have to caution, they are very distressing to watch.
 
But we see a constant chain of dead and injured coming into the Al Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in central Gaza, some saying that this happens in the early morning that there was this initial operation ongoing. More than 210 killed and more than 400 injured, according to the media office in Gaza.
 
Now, we don't have clarity on the breakdown at this point of civilians versus fighters. But we do know that many of those that were brought into that hospital were children, many were women, as well, really some horrific images coming through, one of them saying, it was hell on earth. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Paula Hancocks, thank you so much. Let's bring in now, Priscilla Alvarez from Washington. So, Priscilla, one U.S. official is telling CNN that an American cell supported this rescue effort.
 <br>[13:15:05]
 
What more our officials saying about the kind of U.S. involvement that may have happened here?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Fred. That U.S. official is saying that an American cell in Israel did aid this effort working with Israeli forces. We do not know how or to what extent. Yes, but we have asked the White House for more information on this.
 
Now, earlier today, President Biden welcome to the news of this rescue alongside the French president.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I want to echo President Macron's comments, welcoming the safe rescue of four hostages that were returned to their families in Israel. We won't stop working until all the hostages come home and a ceasefire is reached. That is essential to happen.
 
ALVAREZ: Now, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan echoed that in a statement that follow calling this a successful operation to rescue those four hostages from the grips of Hamas in Gaza.
 
Now, the US, of course, has been pushing for hostage talks to continue for there to be a deal, which would include the release of hostages as well as a ceasefire. In fact, I mean, the president had laid out that proposal publicly putting enormous pressure on all parties to try to reach an agreement.
 
And this week, the U.S. along with 16 other countries called on Hamas, to, close the deal. So, this is all part of this ongoing pressure, that the U.S. is building for there to be this agreement that would pave the way for a ceasefire and also the release of all of the hostages that are being held by Hamas.
 
We also know that senior U.S. officials returned to the Middle East to try to give momentum to some of those talks. We don't know the seed of them, whether they will reach an agreement. But today, the U.S. is touting this as a successful operation, as they have seen the rescue of these four hostages. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Priscilla Alvarez and Paula Hancocks, thanks to both of you ladies. Appreciate it.
 
All right. Still to come, remembering D-Day 80 years later, Tuskegee airman Lieutenant Colonel Harry Stewart, a member of the greatest generation who defended liberty. He'll join me live, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:21:55]
 
WHITFIELD: Less than one percent of America's 16.4 million service people who served in World War II are with us today, and perhaps, reliving June 6, 1944. We all watch live television and were enamored by these remarkable heroes. Most now centenarians, who helped defeat Nazi Germany, free occupied France and save Europe.
 
This amphibious assault that U.S. President Eisenhower called Operation Overlord, was carried out by sea, land, and air, including America's Tuskegee airman. The 332nd fighter group fought in the European theatre and was noted as one of the Army Air Force's most successful and most decorated escort groups.
 
And we are honor to have Tuskegee Airman Lieutenant Colonel Harry Stewart with us today. He is one of four in the 332nd Tuskegee Airman fighter jet group, who also earned the distinction of Top Gun in 1949. The best of the best in the U.S. Air Force, an acknowledgement that they finally officially received in 2022.
 
Lieutenant Colonel Harry Stewart, great to see you.
 
LT. COL. HARRY STEWART JR., TUSKEGEE AIRMAN: Hi, Fredricka. How are you?
 
WHITFIELD: I'm doing great. Even better now that I get to talk to you.
 
STEWART: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: First off, thank you for all that you and your comrades, including my dad, your fellow comrades, Second Lieutenant Mal Whitfield did and continue to do.
 
You served with a 301st fighter squadron as part of the 332nd fighter group known as the Red Tails. You then went to Italy with the 15th Air Force, escorting B-17, B-24 Bombers over Italy, Germany, and Austria.
 
So, I wonder what this week and the ceremonies have felt like to you? Did it rekindle your experiences? Are you reliving it?
 
STEWART: I am. And I got up early. The day before yesterday morning, they are to watch the festivities over at Normandy. And as does every year, you know, I well up with the sadness. And I guess the joy also that I was able to get back home and I was able to be a part of the founding of the World War II victory there. But also, the loss of the comrades that we had overseas at the time there.
 
The Tuskegee airman as far as the Red Tails were concerned and that stands for the fighting arm of the 332 had 355 pilots go overseas and only two of them remain today.
 <br>[13:25:07]
 
But I do remember just about all of them.
 
And even after the war, I assure him that youngest is coming into the service at that time then and guess who one was, your father. And I met him, he was in the 100-fighter group and we were at Blackburn Air Force base there. And, anyway, yes -- 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. I love -- II love -- 
 
STEWART: It just amazing how -- 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Go ahead, just amazing -- 
 
STEWART: Just amazing how much time can you go by, you know, and how fast it goes by in 100 years in the blink of an eye, you know, and we're 80 years as far as the -- as far as the invasion was concerned.
 
WHITFIELD: Extraordinary. I love that. That recollection that you have as if it were just yesterday, and you know, Lieutenant Colonel, I mean, it's remarkable. I think we've all been reminded that, you know, you, so many other servicemen and women, you were just 19, 20 years old, some were 16.
 
You know, my dad was drafted right out of high school. I now have a 19-year-old son in college. And I cannot imagine how you all were able to shoulder such a huge mission. Are you able to kind of recall what you were thinking? Or did you think about the gravity of what you were encountering? And how old were you when, you know, you were beginning these missions?
 
STEWART: Well, when I began, I was 18. And then, I got my pilot's wings and my second lieutenants bars at 19. And I did not recognize at the time, the gravity of what we were facing. And I just felt as though it was a duty of mine at the time there. And yes, I just stood up to my duty. My -- 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh. Lieutenant Colonel, I wonder if you can hang with me here, because we've got live pictures now from Paris. And President Biden and First Lady Dr. Jill Biden have just arrived there at the Elysee Palace. You know, there will be a state dinner being hosted by a French President Macron. And their limousine, also called, "The Beast"" has just arrived there. Jill Biden is now stepping out of the limo, looking ever so gorgeous in her black and white gown there, and navigating, you know, the pebble walk there, before getting to the red carpet.
 
Right behind her there -- and she's also being greeted by the first lady of France and the president, Emmanuel Macron. And also there, now, you see, President Biden also arriving.
 
And I wonder, you know, Lieutenant Colonel, as we marvel at these, you know, gorgeous pictures of these two presidents and the two first ladies there in Paris, and we heard President Biden speak this week on this five-day trip about every generation must defend liberty.
 
And the importance of standing against tyranny with the rise of authoritarianism. I mean, can you -- could you have ever imagined that here it is, 80 years after you described you were 18 years old on these missions there to help liberate France and Europe, from Nazism -- German Nazis.
 
Did you ever imagine that here, we will be 80 years later, and we're hearing from the sitting president now talking about the growing rise of authoritarianism and the growing fears of history repeating itself potentially.
 
STEWART: No, I did not. And I did not. And I still do, I have those fears right now. And I just hope and pray that we can overcome this problem, just like we overcame those during World War II.
 
WHITFIELD: Again, we are looking at live pictures right now of President Macron, the first lady of France. President Biden, the first lady of the United States, now, enter the Elysee palace for this state dinner. And then, I wonder too, Lieutenant Colonel, yes, you were hopeful and you're praying, as you just articulated, when, perhaps, you saw and listen to the Navy see woman on Thursday's ceremony there at Normandy. And she said -- she said a number of beautiful things. But most succinctly, she says, you World War II veterans stand relieved. We have the watch.
 <br>[13:30:01]
 
Did that restore confidence that you, perhaps, now, embrace as a result of hearing this acknowledgement of the next generation that must, and does embrace the responsibility of the continued fight for freedom globally?
 
STEWART: Yes, I still -- I meet with everything that she said. 
 
But I guess the feeling that I get right now is I wish I could be back there with the energy that I had at that time and with the gusto that I had at the time to stand up and face these problems that we have today, along with what the -- what they had to say about them.
 
WHITFIELD: Lieutenant Colonel Harry Stewart, you've still got gusto and you are certainly continuing to be an inspiration. 
 
Thank you so much for being with us today. We celebrate you, your commitment and dedication to freedom, all that you and your comrades have done. 
 
And an early happy 100th birthday right around the corner. Next month, I look forward to seeing you --
 
STEWART: Oh, thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: -- you're magnificent-ness. 
 
Lieutenant Colonel Harry Stewart, thank you so much. 
 
STEWART: Thank you, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:35:52]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, we're getting new details on a story that is putting the Burbank Police Department under scrutiny after surveillance video captured two of its officers dumping a clearly distressed homeless man outside the Los Angeles city council's office and then driving away.
 
joining me right now is CNN's Camila Bernal. 
 
Camila, what are we learning about this?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred. So the council president saying that he now wants a state investigation. 
 
And Burbank police saying they're looking at this incident and saying they're looking not only at the action of the police officers, but also at the surveillance video and the video inside of the patrol car, the body cam video, and also conducting interviews with people who witnessed this. 
 
So this video came out as the council president released it and showed this man who was dropped off essentially at the street here behind me. You see that patrol car pulling up to this street. 
 
The man was in the street so the police officers get out of the car, helping get -- help him get out of those. And you see this man sort of waving his arms. He falls on all fours and the police officers get back into that patrol vehicle and drive away. 
 
Now, it's unclear exactly how long this man was on the sidewalk here behind me. But in that video, you then see him laying on the floor on his belly. 
 
And so of course, this council member is extremely concerned. Take a listen to what he said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAUL KREKORIAN, (D), LOS ANGELES CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENT: I was outraged by it and continue to be. 
 
And I just -- it's almost impossible to fathom, you know, professionals who are trained and paid to protect and serve the public to take somebody at this moment of maximum vulnerability, somebody seeking medical care, and dumping, literally dumping him on a sidewalk to fend for himself. It's a disgrace.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: Now the Burbank Police Department released a statement explaining things a bit differently. 
 
They said they got a call about a naked man. The officers went and spoke to this man. He got dressed. And the officers offer him to take him wherever he wanted. They agreed to take him to the metro station. 
 
And I want to read part of this statement because here's what the police department says:
 
"He voluntarily got into the patrol vehicle and was driven towards the Metro Red Line Station. Along the way, the individual as to be let out of the petrol vehicle to get coffee. So the officers complied immediately with his request, pulled over and let the individual out of the patrol vehicle."
 
So again, they say they did help them essentially. But the question is, what happened here at the sidewalk behind me. 
 
Now, when you look at the issue, overall, homelessness here in Los Angeles and really in California has been a challenge for politicians and continues to be a problem for both the city, the county, and really the state.
 
And politicians may take different approaches to how they want to handle homelessness. But it is a problem that continues to be just front and center here in California.
 
The council members said that after learning about this video, his staff drove around this area trying to find this man. He eventually called the fire department, were able to get them some medical attention. 
 
But again, the key issue here is what to do with homelessness. And I think a lot of the politicians here do not know exactly what the solution to this will be -- Fred? 
 
WHITFIELD: OK, Camila Bernal, thank you so much. 
 <br>[13:39:29]
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right, welcome back. As record-breaking temperatures hit Las Vegas, so is the Republican frontrunner, Donald Trump. Back on the campaign trail a week after being found guilty on 34 charges in a Manhattan courtroom. 
 
His west coast fundraising swing has already taken him to Arizona and California. 
 
CNN's Alayna Treene is in Las Vegas for us right now.
 
Alayna, we're hearing that they are doubling EMS staff for tomorrow's rally because they expect that the crowds to be high, but the temperatures are going to be high, too. ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Thats right. And this rally is actually starting at noon. So one of the hottest points in the day. And it is going to be outside in Las Vegas at Sunset Park. 
 
And so the Trump campaign is very much worried about the dangerous temperatures. Now the forecast shows that temperatures could climb here on Sunday to about 104 degrees. 
 <br>[13:45:07]
 
So again, they're doing what they can to try and lessen the potential dangers to those who are going to be attending this rally. 
 
Now we do have some information, as you mentioned, Fred, that they are going to be doubling EMS staff on the ground. I'm also told that they will provide more than 38,000 water her bottles at this event.
 
They're going to have a tent with some misting fans. They're also adding more of the magazines that you walk through so that they can get through security faster. 
 
But again, this is going to be an outdoor event. And I can tell you I've gone to dozens of Donald Trump's rallies. They're normally very long. They're outside in one area for a very long amount of time. And so there are some concerns about how people are going to fare in this type of weather. 
 
And of course, I think it's important to keep in mind, on Thursday, 11, people were transported to the hospital during his Phoenix, Arizona, rally due to the heat. That's according to the Phoenix Fire Department. 
 
And remember, Fred, that rally was actually indoors. The people who were transported to the hospital from heat-related illness, that was because they were waiting outside to get into the venue for so long. 
 
And so given this event on Sunday is going to be outdoors, there's definitely more concerns to be keeping in mind. 
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Alayna, the Trump campaign says it will launch a new group, the Latino-Americans for Trump group during Trumps visit there to Las Vegas. What do you know about that? 
 
TREENE: Well, it's no coincidence they're trying to launch this group in Nevada, Fred. And part of that is because Donald Trump's team does believe that this is a state where the Hispanic vote could very much not only make a difference in the state, but also potentially deliver Donald Trump the White House. 
 
And that's because they've seen, in recent months, an uptick in Hispanic voters moving away from President Joe Biden and toward Donald Trump. 
 
And they really believe that they can siphon enough away, enough of those voters away from the president that they'll be able to help Donald Trump succeed in November. And part of the reason they believe that Nevada is such a good place
 
 to launch this program is because they make -- Hispanic voters make up a huge portion of the electorate. 
 
They also, an advisor tells me, believe that Covid was really a key part for some of those voters in the state, given the date is - relies on hospitality -- hospitality -- excuse me -- and tourism. That it's a state that was hit very hard by this. And this specifically has impacted Hispanic voters -- Fred? 
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Alayna Treene, in Las Vegas, thanks so much. 
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:52:13]
 
WHITFIELD: Right now, the U.S. is experiencing record-high temperatures in parts of the west, along with multiple wildfires. And as we've seen in recent years, these fires can wreak havoc on communities, causing extreme destruction and the loss of lives.
 
CNN's Bill Weir has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Since climate change has helped create the most flammable earth in human history, every new wildfire season brings new reminders that resilience is everything. 
 
It determines which communities burn to ash and which ones survive and rise, like Paradise, California.
 
WEIR (on camera): So this whole thing was like --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WEIR: -- your home was burned to the ground?
 
HEIDI LANGE, PARADISE RESIDENT: House burned to the ground. I never made it home that day.
 
WEIR (voice-over): It's been just over five years since a mile-wide blowtorch known as the Camp Fire came roaring over the mountains and into this town of 26,000. It took 85 lives, 90 percent of the structures, and two-thirds of the population never returned. 
 
But the people who rebuilt, like Heidi Lange, really want to be here.
 
LANGE: I kind of took an inventory of, you know, everything that was still here. My community and my neighbors and my friends and my church and my job was all still here. So my little village, my little village is here in Paradise. WEIR: The native tree species of California had millions of years to adapt to wildfire, to survive and thrive. Now the people of California have to do the same in much less time. 
 
And here's a perfect example. If you didn't know, you'd never know that this was once a neighborhood of hundreds of families, middle- class workers, retirees, mostly living in prefabricated, highly flammable homes, the kind that right now would cost more to insure than the home is worth. 
 
And this insurance crisis is creating sort of a perverse natural selection of survival of the richest. 
 
(on camera): So how old is this house?
 
CARL JOHNSON, PARADISE RESIDENT: I was born in '39. This was born in '40.
 
WEIR (voice-over): Carl Johnson's house survived the Camp Fire. But when he went to renew his $1,100 a year insurance policy --
 
JOHNSON: I got one quote from Farmers Insurance that said $14,702 --
 
WEIR (on camera): A year? 
 
JOHNSON A year.
 
WEIR (voice-over): As major insurers decide that places like this are just too risky to cover, Carl is among those forced to go uninsured.
 
GARY LEDBETTER, PARADISE RESIDENT: A lot of people that were here the day of the fire never came back. But the people that chose to stay, I think that's amazing.
 
WEIR: While Gary Ledbetter managed to find decent insurance after rebuilding what may be one of the most fireproof new homes in all of the West.
 <br>[13:55:04]
 
LEDBETTER: I had my own torch and my own Bic lighter and I tested materials these guys wanted to use.
 
WEIR (on camera): Is that right? 
 
LEDBETTER: Yes. 
 
WEIR: You're trying to burn their samples? 
 
LEDBETTER: Yes. And as it's flaming in my hands, I throw it down and say, we're not using that.
 
WEIR (voice-over): During the Camp Fire, all the fire hydrants lost pressure. So Gary connected his swimming pool to a sprinkler system. That includes the roof. And every vent and window is engineered to survive an ember storm. LEDBETTER: And its fiberglass instead of vinyl. So it's not going to catch fire. It's not going to melt. And with these windows, the screen is on the inside.
 
LANGE: I did a metal roof and stucco Vulcan vents, which are engineered to close up when they're exposed to a certain degree of heat. So they don't let the embers draw in. And I have more gravel than any normal girl would.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
WEIR: Wildfire is as vital to a forest as rainfall. But human fear of it has shaped and reshaped entire ecosystems, often for the worse. 
 
But by shifting the way they think about nature, shelter and community, Paradise is out to prove to the rest of the overheating world how to live with fire. Because there's no other choice.
 
Bill Weir, CNN, Paradise, California.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Tune into an all-new episode of "VIOLENT EARTH WITH LIEV SCHRIBER." That airs tomorrow night at 9:00 Eastern only on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)