Headline: Inside Politics
Sub-headline: Sources: Harris Plans To Pick A Running Mate By August 7; Top VP Contenders Include Sen. Mark Kelly, Gov. Josh Shapiro; Gov. Roy Cooper, Secy. Pete Buttigieg, Gov. Andy Beshear; Older PA Dem Voters Re-Energized With Harris Replacing Biden; Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff Steps Into Brighter Spotlight. Aired 12:30-1p ET

Aired July 26, 2024 - 12:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:30:00]
 
FRANK LUNTZ, POLLSTER AND COMMUNICATION STRATEGIST: -- candidates who would do that. The only one that you included that it went by is Beshear from Kentucky, because yes, he's popular there. He didn't just win reelection. He's not bringing Kentucky. All the other ones that you showed are viable candidates that would change the electoral map meaningfully and measurably.
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR: It's a really good point because you can actually have -- there's a smart or a sharp comparison to 2020 in the sense of both in North Carolina and in Arizona. Governor Roy Cooper was on the ticket and won statewide, a state that Biden and Harris lost.
 
Mark Kelly obviously ran for Senate. Cooper did 2.9 percent points better, 75,000 more votes than Biden-Harris. Kelly had 44,000 more votes than Biden-Harris, won the state by just shy of two points. In terms of -- you make a good point, there's five or six people on this list who represent the states, have the political rationale, have the profile that you would think of.
 
They're white and they're male, which apparently is something that everybody's kind of pushing towards right now. Kelly, in particular, is interesting because he's got a bio that you would think from a -- somebody in politics, is kind of a dream on some level.
 
LUNTZ: Yes. And the fact that his wife was the victim of a horrific gun crime would allow him and the vice president to speak about gun violence, gun safety. And it opens up the debate. It opens up the discussion, not just electorally, but ideologically and through policy. And it also allows her to shift some of the focus to her running mate on issues that she may not want to address day after day after day.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes, I mean, there's video of, I think, we have it of -- I don't know -- Kelly, like, floating in space. There it is right there. You know, that's -- if you're a political consultant, if you're a campaign adviser, you're saying, well, that's probably something that people would want to see on some level. What do you think is the make or break here? Because there are similar profiles for these individuals. LUNTZ: In the end, it's to make sure that there's nothing in their background that's going to come back to bite them. So she's going to do a full vetting process, make sure that there are no mistakes -- 
 
MATTINGLY: Even in the compressed timetable that they've got. Can they do that?
 
LUNTZ: They can do that and it's going to be all encompassing for the next few days. I expect the candidates that are really under consideration to let's say disappear, to be able to answer the questions, be able to go through their background. If someone didn't pay taxes, if someone had an illegal immigrant working in their household, these are things that disqualified people in the past that and they will disqualify them now.
 
Make no mistake, if there's any weakness, Trump will pounce. So she's got to make sure that, absolutely sure, that there's nothing that's going to come back to bite her.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes, huge opportunity clearly given how these candidates came to be, but also huge risks here. I got to ask, because you brought it up. I talked to Republicans right now related to the former president's pick, and there's concern.
 
You talked about how it was a pick that was more ideological, more relationship based, not necessarily swing state or additive from an electoral base. Do you think it was a mistake?
 
LUNTZ: He chose to double down. And J.D. Vance comes from the background that Trump's focusing on, so he's credible. He -- and he's got the language because this is how he grew up. To me, the most important segment of the population, the one that makes or breaks, are these paycheck to paycheck voters.
 
People who have jobs, they've been working, they may not be college graduates, and they're struggling. And it represents one fourth of the American electorate. Normally, they vote Democrat over Republican by about two to one.
 
Trump brought it to three to two, even closer. That's -- that segment, if they break for Harris, she's the next president. If Trump can keep them, he's the next president. J.D. Vance appeals to them because it's who he -- or I should say it's who he was.
 
It's not a segment we talk about. It's not a segment we see. I get them in focus groups because I go out to these states.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes.
 
LUNTZ: But they are really suffering. The economy is not doing well for them. These are not shareholders. These are not people who have a cushion. If they get fired or one check doesn't work, they could lose their homes. They could lose their cars. And we are very sympathetic towards them as a country watch, because I think that's going to be the focus going forward.
 
MATTINGLY: It's certainly where people should be looking if they aren't already.
 
Frank Luntz, always appreciate your time, my friend. Thank you very much.
 
LUNTZ: Thank you.
 
MATTINGLY: Well, Vice President Kamala Harris snagging one of the biggest endorsements, probably the biggest for presidential race, from the Obamas. But will it be enough to make a difference in critical battleground states?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KING, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Show of hands if you think Harris can win Pennsylvania. There's a head shake.
 
PAMELA ALTA, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: No.
 
KING: Tell me why.
 
ALTA: No. I don't think a lot of men will vote for Harris. I just don't.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: Recognize the sharp looking dude sitting at the table. John King back, the key swing state of Pennsylvania and his latest in the all over the map series.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:39:36]
 
MATTINGLY: ?Some older voters in the key swing state of Pennsylvania say they are energized by Vice President Harris replacing President Biden on the Democratic ticket, while others aren't sure the switch will lure in more voters. Our John King revisited the Keystone State to see what people had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Here we go.
 
KING (voice-over): Mahjong requires focus, patience, a clear strategy to build matching sets of tiles. Changing course deep into the game is risky, but sometimes even experienced players see no choice but to try.
 <br>[12:40:05]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can I have your joker, please?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK. Heads up.
 
KING: See how easy it is to swap out a candidate in the middle of the game? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
KING (voice-over): This game ends in a draw.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nobody wins.
 
KING: Nobody wins?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nobody wins.
 
KING (voice-over): And a visitor brings up another big change.
 
KING: Show of hands if you think Harris can win Pennsylvania. So you're more optimistic now than you were with President Biden leading the ticket. There's a head shake.
 
ALTA: No.
 
KING: Tell me why.
 
ALTA: No. I don't think a lot of men will vote for Harris. I just don't. Whether you're Democrat, Republican, whatever, I just don't think the majority of men are ready for a female president.
 
KING: These three hands went up pretty quickly. So do you have more energy and enthusiasm about the campaign now?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my God, yes.
 
KING: One more time, show of hands. Who wants to see them debate?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh yes.
 
KING (voice-over): Suddenly, Democrats like retiree and Mahjong instructor Darrell Ann Murphy are bursting with energy. Suddenly, they see at least a chance to win battleground Pennsylvania and keep Donald Trump out of the White House.
 
DARRELL ANN MURPHY, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: I don't even like to hear the word Trump.
 
KING: What do you call him?
 
MURPHY: The monster.
 
KING (voice-over): At this same table five months ago, three of the four thought President Biden was up to the job, and they called criticism of his age unfair. But they began to see things that worried them. Biden's debate debacle left no doubt.
 
MURPHY: From experience, I know how quickly things can go downhill when you are an older person.
 
KING (voice-over): Now a new challenge.
 
MURPHY: You know, she's at the perfect age. She's committed. She's vigorous. And I overwhelmingly, the women I talk to are, let's go, let's go.
 
KING (voice-over): Civil rights activist Marvin Boyer organized the black history display at this museum in downtown Easton. The debate changed his mind, too. And in Harris, Boyer sees what was missing in Biden.
 
MARVIN BOYER, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: You have to be aggressive because he's coming after you. And I think she's up to the challenge in that regard.
 
KING (voice-over): The winner here in Northampton County tends to be the winner statewide. Every vote matters.
 
BOYER: It also reenergizes a strong constituency of the Democratic Party, meaning black females. So I think it's a good thing in that regard.
 
KING: Do you think America is ready to elect a woman of color its president?
 
BOYER: There's still racism, misogyny in this country in 2024. No question. Well, can we overcome it with this election enough that she can be elected? I hope so.
 
KING (voice-over): Geology professor Lawrence Malinconico changed his mind after the debate, too. His wife donated to Harris as soon as the news broke. And Malinconico believes students will be much more energized now.
 
LARRY MALINCONICO, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: There is an acceptable choice now when -- before I think there was real skepticism about the viability of President Biden for another four years.
 
KING: Do you think she could win Pennsylvania?
 
MALINCONICO: I hope so. I think part of it will depend on her choice of vice president.
 
KING: Do you think the country's ready for that, a woman of color as president?
 
MALINCONICO: I hope so. I'm a little nervous about that.
 
KING: Are you looking forward to Harris debating Trump?
 
MALINCONICO: Absolutely.
 
KING: Why?
 
MALINCONICO: I'm hoping she'll just eat him alive.
 
KING (voice-over): Pat Levin became politically active in the 1940s during FDR's third term.
 
PAT LEVIN, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: So, you know, I've never seen anything like this. KING (voice-over): She's just a few weeks from 95. Performance, not age, is Levin's test. And she sadly came to see President Biden couldn't pass it anymore.
 
LEVIN: I love him. I think he has been just wonderful. But he is definitely impaired in terms of his thinking, in terms of his presentation, in terms of his energy.
 
KING (voice-over): Simple advice for Harris.
 
LEVIN: Get into those swing states and show her enthusiasm and her stamina and her strength and be able to communicate strongly.
 
KING (voice-over): And one defining issue, if anyone, seeks her wisdom.
 
LEVIN: It's democracy. It's -- actually, this might be our last free and fair election if we don't win it. We cannot afford to lose this election for the American people.
 
KING (voice-over): A big twist at crunch time in what for Pat Levin will be presidential vote number 19.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTINGLY: And the man himself, John King, joins me now, looking limber after that. I mean -- 
 
KING (on-camera): Still a little sore.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes. You get out of the studio and all of a sudden you're doing everything to loosen up.
 
KING (on-camera): Yes. She's good.
 
MATTINGLY: In almost every state or commonwealth, you usually have a county or two -- 
 
KING (on-camera): Right.
 
MATTINGLY: -- that you key on. You were in one here. What does the data say about what this switch may mean going forward?
 
KING (on-camera): So just look at the difference here. That's 1,200 votes. Joe Biden just barely wins it. You go back to 2016, Donald Trump just barely wins it, right? You win this county, you tend to win Pennsylvania.
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
What does the data tell us? Well, let's leave it on the 2016 map. We don't have good data about Harris yet. What you're seeing in these polls, she's certainly more competitive, right? She's certainly more competitive than Biden was. That's a given.
 
Just wait. Let's wait a few weeks before we know, but here's the key, right? Look at this. This is just Pennsylvania. White men, right? Hillary Clinton got 32 percent. She lost. Joe Biden got up to 37 percent. He won, right? That's Pennsylvania.
 
Think about Joe Biden wins the blue wall. These are national numbers, but we have tend to have nationalized elections now. So again, among white men, Hillary Clinton gets 31. She loses Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, the Electoral College.
 
Biden gets a little higher, 38 percent. He wins the blue wall states and he's more competitive elsewhere. Now, if Harris is closer to this, then to this, sure, she can make it up. If you get more younger voters, if you get more African-American voters.
 
But this is something to look at, one of the things to look at, two or three weeks from now, maybe even a month from now after the Democratic convention, where is she in the polling? This will tell you, this number for Harris, when that's a Harris, not a Clinton, or a Harris, not a Biden, if it's up around here, she's competitive in the blue wall states. If it's not, she better have a huge African-American enthusiasm to make up for it.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes. Important point that John King makes. He knows some things about this stuff, wait on the polls.
 
KING (on-camera): Yes.
 
MATTINGLY: Wait on the polls.
 
KING (on-camera): Wait on the polls.
 
MATTINGLY: Real quick. We only got like 10 seconds left. Older voters were a -- 
 
KING (on-camera): Right.
 
MATTINGLY: -- rare reservoir of strength for the Biden campaign. Do they stick around for Harris, do you think?
 
KING (on-camera): That's another fascinating question. That was the key for Biden. These -- the blue wall states, let's look at 2020 right there. They are in 2016, they're red. They're there here. They're blue. They're older. They're more white. They're closer to the median in terms of education level. Fewer college educated voters.
 
If Harris can stick close to Biden numbers, yes. If she's below them, you got to make it up elsewhere.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes, which is why they're looking at some belt as well.
 
John King, always appreciate your time, my friend. Thank you very much.
 
Well, the first gentleman has been given a new title on social media, wife guy extraordinaire. We take a look, closer look at the man behind the woman up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:51:17]
 
MATTINGLY: Have you thought to yourself this week, what's up with Doug Emhoff? He's the second gentleman, and potentially the future first gentleman, who proudly plans to play the role of plus one.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DOUG EMHOFF, SECOND GENTLEMAN: I'm married to the first woman ever to hold this role. So, first of all -- 
 
I'm her husband first, and be a supportive husband so she can do her job as vice president.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Your reaction to the names he's already -- he's calling her?
 
EMHOFF: That's all he's got. Look, you heard the Vice President yesterday making the case against Donald Trump very clearly.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: And to be clear, while this week the olds may have discovered the power of Gen Z targeted Kamala Harris brat memes, Gen Z also can't get enough of Doug Emhoff. Several old pictures of him, right by Harris side, have resurfaced. And in being such a, quote, "good wife guy," Emhoff has also become a pretty cool model for the first male White House spouse.
 
My panel is back with me now. And Kadia, the genesis for this for us was Betsy Klein, our colleague who covers the White House, sees Jeff (ph) often. I believe, is currently in Paris. Has this great story kind of breaking down. This is a role that had no parameters or rules or rule books or manuals, and not only did he embrace it but he's also become kind of all things to the vice president in terms of his -- her defender, he's her supporter.
 
If she doesn't want to go out, he's the guy who's going to be out kind of meeting with folks. And I'm interested, how do you see his role going forward with the campaign?
 
KADIA GOBA, POLITICAL REPORTER, SEMAFOR: Yes, well, I think like Kamala Harris, he is among the first to be a second first -- a second husband and also the first Jewish one, right? So we saw him before October 7th out on the road talking about antisemitism.
 
Now -- but he also does it in a nuanced way. He adds, you know, talks about Islamophobia. He's not afraid to do that. So I would imagine that's also going to be his role going forward. And then when you talk to people, people just say like, he is just a really, really nice guy.
 
He's the person in the mix after the White House Correspondents Dinner and at the parties. I am personally looking forward to what is going to be his walkout song, because we know in 2020, there was a debate whether or not he was going to do, you know, Teach Me How To Dougie. They went with another song then. But now in this Brad era, we'll see if that changes.
 
MATTINGLY: It is an interesting -- I had not considered that question. That is definitely a question. You know, what's interesting, Jeff, is his portfolio. Can he hits on a key point here in terms of the Jewish community, his outreach, his presence as well, but also on reproductive rights?
 
Obviously, that's been central in the Vice President's portfolio, but he's been out saying that there's a role for men in this debate as well. Mr. -- does he build on that going forward?
 
JEFF MASON, WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT, REUTERS: Oh, no doubt. I mean, I think he probably builds on that. I think he builds on the things that you were saying. He also is just -- sometimes you need a spouse of a candidate, male or female, to humanize the person at the top. And he does that for her.
 
I mean just watching the state of the -- I think it was the State of the Union address this year where she came up and was standing behind the podium before President Biden came and they both waved at each other from opposite sides of the room and laughed. That was humanizing.
 
And when he comes to the White House Correspondents Dinner or the parties or goes out for dinner with others in D.C. while she's working, that is a voice about this is who she is. This is my wife. She's a person, and that will -- that's no doubt something that will be helpful to her.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes, look, political spouses that like each other. Novel concept on -- 
 
MASON: Yes.
 
MATTINGLY: -- some level.
 
MASON: They'll figure.
 
MATTINGLY: Also, by the way, like, being a good husband shouldn't be like a high bar on some level. It should kind of be what you're supposed to do, but I appreciate what it means. Go ahead.
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN POLITICAL REPORTER: Well, what I was going to say, though, is just contrast that with Melania Trump. I mean, obviously, very different situations, but I think it is interesting, like -- and I don't cover Harris and I don't know Doug as well as both of you do. I'm off, I should say, the second gentleman.
 
MATTINGLY: No, no, if you try -- 
 
TREENE: I'm not on first day basis.
 
MATTINGLY: If you try and say Mr. Second Gentleman to him -- 
 
TREENE: Yes, he will say.
 
MATTINGLY: -- he will say, it's Doug.
 
TREENE: Right. But, I mean, if you contrast, you see him all the time. You're seeing him campaigning, you're seeing him try to be that support system for the Vice President. Whereas, we've rarely seen the former first lady, Melania Trump, out this cycle. She has made it a point to not appear that much on the trail.
 
It's only been three appearances so far. The last of which came during the convention, but she didn't speak. And so I just think like that contrast as well has been very interesting.
 
MATTINGLY: It is a very clear contrast. We'll see how it plays out going forward. Not the biggest part of this entire race -- 
 
TREENE: Right.
 
MATTINGLY: -- but it's -- there's an interesting element to it. No question about it.
 
Thanks guys very much as always.
 
As we go to break, we'll show you pictures just in from Mar-a-Lago, former President Trump meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. CNN News Central will have more after the break. Have a good weekend.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)