Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Mounting Pressure for Biden; Prices Fell in June; Ivo Daalder is Interviewed about NATO; Russian Summer Camp in North Korea. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired July 11, 2024 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:33:15] 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: A live look now at the White House and Capitol Hill, where calls for Joe Biden to step aside are growing, where we are standing by this morning to hear or learn any new details. And there will be a press conference as well today as President Biden prepares for his highly pivotal news conference later on as he fights off growing calls to step aside in the 2024 race.
 
With us now to discuss, CNN political commentator Karen Finney, good morning.
 
KAREN FINNEY, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Good morning.
 
SIDNER: And Maura Gillespie from Bluestack Strategies, founder, and former press adviser to former House Speaker John Boehner. 
 
Thank you, ladies, both for coming in.
 
I want to start with this brand-new polling. We will go to the House and talk a little bit about the Senate as well and what's happening there. But first, we've got this new polling just in from ABC News. And if you look at it, it shows how people are feeling. This is not pundits. This is not elites, as we've been hearing from the Biden camp. These are potential voters who are registered. And it shows that 67 percent of the people who were polled think that Biden should step aside. It also talks about Donald Trump. Fifty percent saying he should also step aside. This is like the double haters thing right in their faces when it comes to this. 
 
But let me - let me first talk to you. When it comes to this poll, and you're looking at this, Karen, is this going to be the thing that may push more Democrats to tell Joe Biden to step aside? Is this a key here that could push this and make the dam break?
 
FINNEY: Not if they actually look a little farther into the poll. I mean those numbers that you said are important. But also in that poll it shows the race is otherwise static in terms of - in the question of who would you vote for, you see, I believe actually Biden may be up one point. 
 <br>[08:35:09] And so, again, that's sort of - you know, for - for the - for Biden, who has said that, you know, I'm in this to win it and believing that he - that there's a path. 
 
Now, here's what I think is important today. Both the press conference, and we've seen reports, and I've heard that the campaign is putting together some data to take to The Hill to make the case, right? To say, here's the pathway that we see, and here's the way we're going to get those votes, that could help stem the tide. But we'll see, because the press conference today is critical.
 
SIDNER: It seems like every time everything he does now since the problematic debate, its critical because people don't want to see the same person they saw on that stage. And if they do, it's going to make it worse for him. 
 
I want to talk to you just now - we've gotten "The New York Times" opinion piece has just come out. Initially, we saw one that called for Biden to step aside. Now its saying this about Donald Trump. Let's take a look at that opinion piece. It says, "Donald Trump is unfit to lead." 
 
And so too you, Maura, why aren't Republicans having the conversation about Donald Trump? And I can guess what your answer is.
 
MAURA GILLESPIE, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Well, what's interesting to me is, we did - you know, say what you will about Republicans, we let 13, 14 people run in the primary. We at least had that opportunity. 
 
Dean Phillips, who tried to run against Joe Biden, was shunned from the party for even speaking up and saying it's time to pass the torch.
 
Now, I will say, Republicans ultimately ended up with Donald Trump, and then he gutted the RNC potentially for letting that happen of 13, 14 people and then he put his daughter-in-law in place, in charge there, and that is what transpired.
 
What we at least tried, right? We at least tried and had this conversation. But 13, 14 people said, he's not who should be leading us into this next cycle. We have not won with him at the helm. So, at the beginning, people understood that. They've largely ignored it because he has pushed forward and he is the nominee. 
 
But they're not wrong. And these polls are telling you what the American people have been saying this whole cycle, we do not want this rematch of 2020. And that's been repeated. And it feels as though the American people aren't being heard because the big money that is in play here is what's pushing these two old, white men in front of our faces. And it feels as though it's not - we're not being heard. And I think that's - is frustration. And my biggest fear is the lack of voter turnout. 
 
SIDNER: I think that's the biggest fear too.
 
Karen, I know you have something to say about that. Go ahead. FINNEY: Yes. Well, I was just going to say, let's remember, Donald
 
 Trump changed the rules in two of the states to make it harder, specifically targeting some of those people who are running against him. So, you know, both - I mean in both instances, these two men were determined to be their nominees. They got the votes. They've got the delegates.
 
But again, I think your ultimate points, Sara, is right, which is, I think we're in a situation now, both men, right? There's plenty of criticism on both sides. You know, I would argue Donald Trump is a criminal, charged and found guilty, over 34 counts. Joe Biden believes he has a record to run on. 
 
But I do think, again, that the press conference today is an important moment. We'll see if they're able to turn the tide. I mean, again, I think the strategy was, try to get through this week, get through the NATO conference. He's now got this interview scheduled for Monday at NBC. I don't know if it's going to be enough, to be perfectly honest. 
 
But I think there's also a feeling among some that see the vulnerabilities of Donald Trump, which makes them think that perhaps Joe Biden can win and perhaps it is too risky to try to, you know, go through a process and have a new candidate at the top of the ticket, whether that would be Vice President Harris or someone else.
 
SIDNER: Karen, I'm really curious about what you think about - you know, you talked about he's doing an interview. He's now doing a press conference. But we haven't seen much of this. Shouldn't he have been doing this all along to sort of prove all along that he's rigorous and ready for ready for the work ahead?
 
FINNEY: Yes, look, my way, as a press person, as a comms person, I would have. I'm much more into being aggressive and get out there. So, I don't know the answer to why not. I don't know if that was a staffing decision or if that was, you know, a decision made with the president. 
 
Yes, and I think it would have been better to - even if he was working the phones that first weekend after the debate, or that we were hearing that, right, that there were - that they were moving quickly to show momentum. I think that would have helped. I certainly think that was part of what hurt them in the beginning. 
 
SIDNER: I want to talk about Kamala Harris. Vice President Harris has been on the trail. She has been very, very, very - there's no daylight between them. You see her standing by Joe Biden, as you would expect a vice president to do. 
 
But, of course, she's on the ticket and she would likely be the person who takes over if Biden steps down. 
 <br>[08:40:02]
 
Already we're seeing a lot of attacks from Republicans. And, Maura and Karen, I want you to listen to this. We heard from Mr. Gorka, who is a conspiracy theorist and also a former Trump White House adviser. But Sebastian Gorka said this in his line of attack.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN GORKA, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE ADVISER: She's a DEI hire, right? She's a woman. She's colored, therefore she's got to be good. And at least her brain doesn't literally freeze in mid-sentence.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: She's -
 
FINNEY: She's colored.
 
SIDNER: She's colored. That's -
 
FINNEY: Come on.
 
SIDNER: And it's also this thing. It's like every racist person says the achievements of black people are because of their, you know, their color or, in this case, he said a woman and color. 
 
Is this line of attack - and I'm going to go to you, Maura, first, going to backfire to try to use that kind of language against Kamala Harris?
 
GILLESPIE: I didn't see what network he was on, but I'm assuming that because of the fact that he was on a far-right network, no, it's not going to backfire on him. A lot of what most people in the Trump world say and do actually gets them positive reactions, which as - for me, as a woman, is infuriating because my worth is not based on my body part. It is my intellect. And it's who I am and who I bring to the table and what I bring to the table. It's really frustrating when we - when this - this is the kind of comments we hear across the board. We hear it. I've been hearing this my entire career. 
 
But that being said, it doesn't mean that just because she is a woman, or if she weren't -
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
GILLESPIE: That she is the next best person to be in the White House. I think we take things based on her work, her merit. And again, she is standing behind Joe Biden. She is staying with him and has not said that she is trying to, you know, lead ahead of him or anything like that. 
 
But what I think is - and the bigger context here is the vice president role. In any election before we haven't - r ally haven't paid as much attention to it. 
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
GILLESPIE: And this election, because of their ages, is becoming more and more important. And it's critical that we take a look at that as voters and really think about who Donald Trump ends up choosing and looking at Vice President Kamala Harris, if that's the end of ticket come November. That's what we need to really look at because China (ph) will - you know, ill will on anyone. But the reality is, is 78 and 81, life happens. And these things could happen.
 
SIDNER: And the attacks are coming fast and furious at Kamala now because there is some far on the right (ph).
 
GILLESPIE: Because there's fear. Right, because its warranted. Right. Right.
 
SIDNER: Karen, I know you want to say something, but I - we - I'm going to let you very, very quickly. 
 
FINNEY: No, just very quickly. Trump was always going to attack her with classic tropes against women and black women in particular, I think it will backfire, particularly with suburban women who don't like seeing that nastiness from him, but not in right-wing circles, as Maura pointed out. 
 
SIDNER: Maura Gillespie, Karen Finney, thank you so much for this great conversation. Appreciate it. 
 
FINNEY: Thanks.
 
SIDNER: Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: And just in, the latest read on the country's fight against inflation. Good news for consumers. New data just out showing a favorite inflation gauge cooling further.
 
Let's get over to CNN's Paula Newton. She's got the numbers for us.
 
Paula, what are you learning?
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Kate, cooling a little bit more than expected as well. If you see annual inflation there at 3 percent. But this is what is so interesting, Kate. The month to month down 0.1. 
 
Listen, I know these numbers perhaps don't mean much in the grand scheme of things when you're going to the grocery store. But think about it, what cost you $100 in those basket of goods. Last year, on average, it cost you $103. That is very good news, not just for consumers, but as you were just having the political discussion, it is a number that the White House will welcome as well. 
 
I want you to look at this annualized chart, though. When we talk about what has happened since the pandemic, and you will see post pandemic that spike in prices. That is what everyone is feeling at the grocery store, with insurance costs, whatever, you name it, we were feeling it. Now, not so much. You will see the dip and then now what is so key, Kate, is that this is the first time we have seen any signs of deflation since the pandemic. And that is truly significant news. 
 
It is being noticed by the markets, Kate, as you can imagine. Dow futures kind of popped when we saw this. I will, though, say that the S&amp;P and the Nasdaq already in record territory. We could set a new record for the Dow today if this kind of strong market continues. That is good for the 401ks that everyone has. 
 
But what I really want to focus here is on interest rates, right? Everyone is looking for a little relief on that. We had last week the jobs report. It showed unemployment rising just a little bit to 4.1 percent. Combined and with these new numbers, Kate, that gives Fed chair - Federal Reserve Chair Jay Powell a little bit more room here to decrease rates, perhaps as soon as September. Good news for consumers all around this morning, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Good news consumers all around and hitting that mark, as you see in the bottom of your screen, prices falling for the first time since the pandemic. That's a big deal.
 
Paula, thank you so much.
 
John. 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: That is a thing indeed. 
 <br>[08:45:00]
 
All right, this morning, for the first time, NATO leaders are calling China I decisive enabler of Russia's war in Ukraine. This declaration came with a not-so-thinly-veiled threat of repercussions.
 
With us now, former U.S. ambassador to NATO, Ivo Daalder.
 
Thanks so much for being with us, Ambassador. 
 
How important is this statement? And why do you think they're making it now?
 
IVO DAALDER, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO NATO: Well, because the Chinese are helping the Russians to build up its defense industry. Russia is engaged and has changed its economy into a war economy. And that is fundamentally enabled by the Chinese who are providing everything short of fully made weapons to allow Russia to continue to fight this war. 
 
In that regard, China has become not just an enabler, I would say a participant in this direct confrontation, which is in direct violation of international law, which is in direct violation of every norm and custom that Chinas seems to talk about and uphold. And therefore, it's just appropriate to say, we see you and we're going to do something about it if you don't stop.
 
BERMAN: So, let me put a picture up here on the wall here. That's why I'm here. You can see Vladimir Putin and President Xi meeting. They had this summit, you know, some two years ago. A very close relationship they declared.
 
NATO has said there will be repercussions. What can NATO do about this?
 
DAALDER: Well, the most obvious thing it can do, and the United States has already done this, is to put sanctions on those businesses that are directly engaged in helping the Russians. If other NATO countries were to do the same, or in the case of most Europeans, the European Union were to do the same, that will have a significant impact on their ability to be part of the more global market. 
 
You can go further and actually put sanctions on banks and - that are enabling these companies to continue to do this and basically say you can't be part of the dollar financial system. So, there are means economically to really pressure the Chinese to say, you know, there are costs here that are going to cost you dearly, and you better rethink the extent of which you want to continue to support this war. 
 
BERMAN: Obviously, in political spheres today, everyone has their eyes on President Biden. He holds a news conference today at the end of this NATO summit. Very important for the U.S. campaign. How are the other NATO leaders looking at that news conference? Will they be watching in the same way? 
 
DAALDER: No, they won't be watching it the same way because they don't - they don't have a direct view on the elections, other than the fact that the question of whether Joe Biden runs raises the issue of who's going to be the next president. And they do have a really big stake in that because if one thing is clear is that Donald Trump's view of NATO, which was just stated a couple of days ago and is a rally in Doral, Florida, Doral Gables, in which he once again repeated that those nations that are, quote, delinquent, which no nation is by the way, he would not defend them against a Russian attack. So, they are concerned about who is going to lead the United States. Is it going to be Joe Biden or another person who believes in NATO, or is it going to be a return to Donald Trump, who threatened to leave NATO in his last major summit?
 
BERMAN: Certainly hanging over this entire meeting, over the course of this week.
 
Ambassador Ivo Daalder, always good to talk to you. Thank you very much.
 
Sara. 
 
SIDNER: All right, ahead this morning, what witnesses are saying on the stand in Alec Baldwin's involuntary manslaughter trial, where he could face 18 months in prison if convicted. 
 
And look at this dangerous situation. A flight came to a very quick end after, look there, you see multiple tires blowing out when the plane was just about to take off. We'll have that story coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:53:27]
 
BOLDUAN: Protesters marched in the streets of Milwaukee Wednesday, demanding four security guards be charged in the death of Dvontaye Mitchell. He is the black man who died after being pinned down by those security guards outside of a hotel. Some of the encounter was captured on video. His family is demanding answers and says they have not gotten any. They have drawn comparisons between his death and George Floyd. Now the city's district attorney says his office is reviewing the death as a homicide case. The security officers have been terminated from their jobs.
 
Convicted murderer Alec Murdaugh is now asking South Carolina's supreme court to review part of his case and is hoping to get a new trial. His legal team wants the court to take another look at a judge's decision that denied his plea for a retrial based on allegations of jury tampering. His team point to and accuse a now former court clerk of making comments to the jury that crossed the line, implying Murdaugh guilty while the trial will still underway. Murdaugh is in prison after being convicted of killing his wife and son at their estate in 2021.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa. A blown tire. Roll the trucks. Roll the trucks. Roll the trucks.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: That is the moment American Airlines Flight 590 was forced to abort takeoff yesterday morning at Tampa International Airport. More than one tire blowing out there. The FAA says the crew reported multiple blown tires. The very good news here, no one was injured, albeit probably very scary. 
 <br>[08:55:02]
 
All onboard were OK. 
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER: Yikes.
 
All right, summer camp in North Korea looks a whole lot different than the summer fun American kids are used to. We're now hearing from a Russian student who opens up about the brainwashing he says he experienced while spending weeks in North Korea as a teenager.
 
CNN's senior international correspondent Will Ripley gives us a look inside at this different kind of summer camp.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The Russian and North Korean leaders budding alliance at full speed for the world to see. Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un toasting a stronger partnership than ever before. Intent on taking down the U.S.
 
YURI FROLOV, Russian GRADUATE STUDENT IN THE U.S.: My president is also a murderous dictator. So, there is no surprise.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): Yuri Frolov is a Russian graduate students studying in the U.S. He was in high school in Russia in 2015 and 2016 when his parents sent him on two summer trips to North Korea. Russia, one of the only nations Pyongyang still allows in on government controlled sightseeing trips.
 
FROLOV: We landed in Pyongyang. And we spent two days in the capital. They showed us some attractions. They showed us like their museum. This - this show has like dolphins.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): Frolov says he's not surprised to see rising Russian tourism in Kim's heavily sanctioned secret state.
 
FROLOV: Russian tourists is one of the pipelines they can use to get this currency in the country. Because once I was there, it was one of their purpose, just to use the people like milk cows just to get like the most - the money they wanted. 
 
RIPLEY (voice over): He visited the same souvenir shops I did on my 19 reporting trips to North Korea. 
 
RIPLEY: You don't need to read Korean to know what this means here. The U.S. Capitol there. Symbolism says it all. 
 
RIPLEY (voice over): Shops overflowing with anti-U.S. propaganda. 
 
FROLOV: It wasn't like - like straightforward propaganda. It was brainwashing you like in - through different ways.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): Frolov spent two weeks at this international children's camp on North Korea's east coast. Summer fun mixed with daily chores, like cleaning giant statues of the late leaders.
 
FROLOV: Which was also very strange. It was like 6:00 in the morning and we were just called to clean some dust out from this monument.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): After morning chores, mandatory music lessons.
 
FROLOV: Sometimes the people were forced just to sing propaganda songs about like the great leaders of North Korea, Kim Il-Sung, Kim Jong-il, and Kim Jong-un. And basically we were forced to speak the song as well. But they were like in Korean, but they were translated into Russian.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): He says even the video games had an anti-American theme. 
 
FROLOV: They were like driving tanks, like destroying the White House in the U.S. 
 
RIPLEY (voice over): It reminds me of this exchange with two North Korean campers playing that same video games.
 
RIPLEY: Who do you want to fight?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): To fight the sworn enemy, Americans.
 
RIPLEY: What if I told you I'm an American. Do you want to shoot me too?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Yes. 
 
RIPLEY (voice over): Lesson from Kim and Putin to the next generation.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY: You know, Sara, I remember those youngsters later asked me, you know, are you a good American or a bad American? I said, oh, I'm a good one. And they said, OK, we'll allow you to live. So, they were actually very polite and friendly even as they were telling me they want to annihilate the United States. I experience that a lot in North Korea. And it was interesting for me to speak with that Russian youngster, and he was kind of fed the same propaganda that we were during all of our reporting trips there. 
 
SIDNER: It was interesting when you said, who do you want to kill? And I thought they were going to say you. But they pretty much did in the end, but you said you were a good American. 
 
Are there any other nations besides Russia that are able to visit North Korea at this point?
 
RIPLEY: Right now, based on all of the conversations I'm having with my sources, including tour operators, it is only Russians who are getting visas right now. You know, before the pandemic, the largest source of inbound tourism to North Korea wasn't even Russia, it was China. But Chinese tourists are not allowed in. Even nations like Sweden, that have diplomatic relations with North Korea and have embassies that have been closed for the last four years during the pandemic, they are not even being allowed in to continue their diplomatic work. 
 
So, North Korea, right now, is arguably the most isolated it has been in decades. The only people who are getting in, right now at least, Russians, Sara.
 
SIDNER: It tells you a lot about where they are in the world right now and their relationship with Russia. 
 
I know you have been in many, many, many, many times. We will see what happens next. 
 
Will Ripley, thank you so much. That was a really interesting story. 
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now.
 <br>[09:00:05]
 
BERMAN: Well, the brand new poll showing the two-thirds of Americans want him to drop out.