Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: $95B Foreign Aid for Ukraine, Israel, and Taiwan Approved by U.S. House; Secretary Blinken Scheduled to Visit China to Strengthen Ties; $26B Provided for Israel "To Defend Itself" in U.S. Assistance Plan; Israel-Hamas War; Israeli Operation in West Bank Refugee Camp Claimed 14 Lives, According to Palestinian Ministry of Health; West Bank Ambulance Driver Slain While Assisting Wounded Palestinians During an Attack by Israeli Settlers; Attacks on West Bank Ambulance Staff Denounced by Palestinian Ministry of Health; U.S. and Russia Vying for Influence in Africa; Niger Asked the U.S. Forces to Leave; Russia Attempting to Increase Authority in Africa, U.S. Official Says; Doctors' Strike in Kenya; Columbia University Still Staging Pro- Palestinian Protests; Many Kenyans Seeking Medical Attention After Health Workers' Strike. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired April 21, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  Welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom."
 
There's relief in Ukraine following a vote giving it billions of dollars in aid from the U.S. Where the money from the funding bill will go, and how Russia is responding.
 
Palestinian leaders are calling for a strike today in the West Bank after Israeli defense forces carried out a deadly raid.
 
Plus, the U.S. agrees to withdraw its troops from Niger more than a month after the country revoked a military cooperation deal. How this could affect the fight against terror there and beyond.
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from Atlanta, this is "CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber."
 
BRUNHUBER:  After months of bitter Republican division in the U.S. Congress and frustration among American allies internationally, the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $95 billion in foreign aid for Ukraine, Israel, and Taiwan. The package includes $61 billion for Ukraine, $26 billion for Israel and $8 billion for Taiwan and Indo- Pacific allies.
 
It now goes to the Senate on Tuesday. The Upper House is widely expected to pass the funding, which would then head to President Biden who says he is ready to sign it. Biden applauded the move saying, "Members of both parties in the House voted to advance our national security interests and send a clear message about the power of American leadership on the world stage."
 
All right. For more on all that, I'm joined by CNN's Clare Sebastian in London. And Clare, those billions of dollars in aid can't come soon enough for soldiers on Ukraine's front lines.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, absolutely. Kim. They've been waiting a very long time for this and that in itself has had a profound impact on the war in terms of how quickly it can get there. Well, the Pentagon hasn't been specific, but certainly a spokesperson in a briefing last Thursday, before this vote happened, said that they are poised to move quickly. He said -- and that has previously been showing they can move within days.
 
Of course, we still have the Senate vote and the president's signature, but this should happen relatively quickly. And of course, there may be a more immediate impact. We could see the impact on the battlefield even before the aid lands if Ukraine can anticipate a delivery of more artillery ammunition. For example, they may have to ration less stringently in the meantime which could have an impact in a war where President Zelenskyy has said in recent days that Russia is firing 10 artillery shells for every one that Ukraine is firing.
 
So, they are significantly on the backfoot in the ground war right now. But this is not a silver bullet, obviously. We know that, yes, artillery ammunition is a major factor. But for example, Russia has been having a significant and deadly impact with aerial guided bombs recently, which had dropped from planes. Ukraine desperately needs F- 16s to try to combat those. And this bill will not speed up the delivery of that. We know that training, for example, is a bottleneck there.
 
But it will boost morale on the front lines, and that is significant. Take a listen to what President Zelenskyy had to say in response to the passing of this vote.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  We appreciate every manifestation of support for our state and independence, our people, and our lives which Russia wants to bury in ruins. America has shown its leadership from the first days of this war.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN:  So, he also made the point in a statement that the passage of this vote will prevent and more military aid to Ukraine. Of course, it will prevent the war from expanding, which is an argument that Zelenskyy and other Ukrainian officials and those in Congress in Washington who are in favor of more aid have used repeatedly to try to push this issue forward.
 
As for Russia, we've heard from the foreign ministry spokeswoman, Kim, who said that direct this military aid to Kyiv is direct sponsorship of terrorist activity.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Appreciate that update. Clare Sebastian in London, thanks so much.
 
And Taiwan is expressing its gratitude after the U.S. House passed more than $8 billion in Indo-Pacific security aid. A statement from Taiwan's defense ministry said, "This fully demonstrates the U.S.' rock solid commitment to Taiwan. We will continue to coordinate with the U.S. side on the use of budget -- of the budget through existing mechanisms, so as to strengthen our military prowess, and ensure peace and stability on the Taiwan Strait."
 
So, as the House approved those funds for Taiwan and Indo-Pacific allies, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced he will head to China next week. The aim is to firm up relations with Beijing amid rising global tensions. Blinken will meet with senior officials in the Chinese capital and in Shanghai, and is expected to discuss a range of issues, including the Middle East and China's support for Russia.
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
Now, this is his second trip to China as top diplomat. Blinken visited last summer to calm potential conflict after an American fighter plane shot down a Chinese surveillance balloon over the U.S.
 
Som as we mentioned earlier, the U.S. aid package includes $26 billion for Israel, the reaction from Israeli officials was immediate. CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson has more from Jerusalem.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Very strong thanks coming from Israeli political leaders here. Thanks to the bipartisan support, the thanks given to Speaker Johnson, the thanks given to Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries.
 
The Prime Minister saying -- Benjamin Netanyahu saying that this shows bipartisan support for Israel which is, kind of, interesting because there's been this assessment in Israel that the Prime Minister has been alienating Democrats in the United States because of the way that he's fighting the war in Gaza. Because so many Palestinians are being killed, more than 34,000 now.
 
So, the Prime Minister kind of framing it in a way that that is actually important to him to -- he shows he still has, the country still has a bipartisan support. The defense minister, Yoav Gallant, pointing out that there are -- Israel has seven enemies at the moment and important to show. Again, he said that this shows the strong support and strength between the United States and Israel. We heard similar things from the foreign minister as well, Israel Katz, saying that this shows a strong ties, a strategic partnership between the two countries.
 
But the speaker of the Knesset, perhaps framing it in what could be the, sort of, most important language here or the way that he explains it. He says, this shows Israel's enemies of the strong support between the United States and Israel.
 
And why is that so important? Well, there's a -- there's an understanding in Israel at the moment that one of the reasons Iran decided to hit Israel in a way that it never done before, more than 350 missiles and drones directly from Iran into Israel was because the perception here in Israel, at least, is that Iran thought the tensions between the White House and the Prime Minister here meant that that U.S. support for Israel wasn't as strong as it was before, and therefore they could attack Israel in a way that they hadn't done before. So, the speaker of the Knesset making it clear for Iran, for others that that strong support is there.
 
So, this isn't just about having the armaments to continue to fight all the wars that Israel is fighting. It is about sending that clear message to their enemies.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  And the Palestinian Authority slammed the aid bill, calling it a, "Dangerous escalation and aggression against the Palestinian people. Now, it comes as 14 people were killed during an Israeli operation at the Nur Shams refugee camp in the West Bank, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry. They say, they have now been able to go in and tend to the wounded after Israeli forces partially withdrew from the area. The IDF is calling it a, "Extensive counterterrorism operation."
 
Elliott Gotkine joins us now from London. So, Elliott, what is the latest on the rising violence in the West Bank?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN JOURNALIST:  Kim, I suppose there's three events that we should discuss as to what's been happening over this past weekend. First and foremost is what the IDF is describing as a counterterrorism operation and what appears to be the biggest operation by the IDF in the Israeli occupied West Bank since the Hamas attacks of October the 7th.
 
Now, Israel says that it has killed 10 terrorists. It says, that it has arrested eight wanted men and also discovered explosives and other weapons such as M-16 rifles. The Palestinian Ministry of Health says, that 14 people have been killed, among them a child and a teen.
 
Now, that operation actually began on Thursday evening. Up until this morning, it was still ongoing. I understand that this operation has now ended and that Israeli forces has have withdrawn. And as you were saying, that has allowed authorities in the West Bank to go in to try to recover the bodies and also treat those who have been injured.
 
Now, the second incident was an ambulance driver for the Palestine Red Crescent Society who was killed while transporting other Palestinians who had been injured off in clashes with Israeli settlers. Now, according to the Palestinian Red Crescent Society, they say that the ambulance came under fire from Israeli settlers and that as a result of that, the 50-year-old ambulance driver there was killed. And he's been named as Mohammed Awad Allah Mohammed (ph). So, that is another aspect that we've been watching this weekend. And then this morning, the IDF saying that in -- near Hebron in the West Bank, that at a junction -- at a road junction to, in its words, terrorist approached their soldiers. One tried to carry out a stabbing attack, the other opened fire and that both of those militants were neutralized.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
And I suppose what this all points to, although these are three separate incidents, what this all points to is the rising violence that we are seeing in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, particularly since October the 7th, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health, almost 500 Palestinians have been killed since October the 7th.
 
Now, those figures don't distinguish between combatants and civilians, but certainly we are seeing an uptick in violence and an uptick in the death toll since October the 7th. There were, of course, raids before October the 7th by the IDF. There was also a violence by Israeli settlers against Palestinian civilians in the West Bank before October the 7th.
 
But as I say, there has been a notable uptick since then. And of course, as a result of that rising violence, we have seen, for example, the United States enact sanctions against individual Israeli settlers in the West Bank, something that the Israeli government is not particularly happy with. But that is no doubt something that would be expected to continue so long as violence continues to rise in the West Bank. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Elliott Gotkine in London, thank you so much for that.
 
Friends and family of Damian Sobol, one of the seven aid workers killed in Gaza earlier this month, gathered for his funeral in Poland on Saturday. He was killed when Israeli forces attacked a World Central Kitchen convoy delivering food in Gaza.
 
The IDF called the strike a grave mistake and has fired two senior officers. In a letter that was read aloud at Sobol's funeral, Poland's president said, "We're saying farewell to a wonderful young man, courageous and general -- generous activist who followed the idea of solidarity."
 
There's a new diplomatic battlefield involving the United States and Russia. It's a fight for influence in Africa. Next, why some U.S. officials say, it's key to Africa's future. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  U.S. troops are planning to leave Niger, and some U.S. officials are concerned that it will allow Russia to expand its presence in the region. U.S. troops have been working to help fight terrorism there, which has grown over the past decade. This week, Niger asked the U.S. to leave. Last weekend, hundreds of people demonstrated in Niger's capital demanding the departure of U.S. troops. Last year, France pulled its troops out of the country, and Niger has recently welcomed Russian military instructors. Some demonstrators say they're bearing the brunt of the battle against terrorism.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARIA SALEY, PROTESTER (through translator):  We've come here to support the CNSP and to say no to the American military base. We don't want Americans on our territory. And by the way, it's not just the American military base, we don't want them on our territory. Because we can't understand it. There's the French military base, there's the American military base on our territory. Nevertheless, the terrorists are killing our soldiers. We've never seen a Frenchman fall on the field of honor, nor an American fall on the field of honor. It's only Nigerians who are dying.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, Nigerians there. Military junta overthrew Niger's government last July. It was the latest in a trend across the part of Africa known as the Sahel. Since 2019, the region has seen no fewer than 10 coups in seven countries.
 
Olayinka Ajala is a senior lecturer in politics and international relations at Leeds Beckett University and joins us now from Motherwell, Scotland. Thank you so much for being here with us. So, the U.S. was a major donor to Niger as well as a security partner. That all seemed to change after the coup. So, why this rupture between Niger and the U.S.? What brought this about?
 
OLAYINKA AJALA, SENIOR LECTURER, LEEDS BECKETT UNIVERSITY:  Yes, thank you very much. As you rightly said, when you started talking about these, the key reason was the coup which happened last year. So, since the call in 2023, the relationship has changed dramatically between the U.S. and Niger.
 
Initially, the military junta kept a level of relationship with the United States even after they told France to leave, they still maintained a kind of a cordial relationship with the U.S. But everything changed in October because for the first few months, the U.S. did not label this a coup because it has constitutional implication on how the U.S. could support Niger.
 
But when the U.S. labeled it a coup in October 2023, the dynamics changed. The U.S. reduced funding, and also importantly, the U.S. also reduced intelligence sharing, which for me, is actually even more important than the withdrawal funds. Because when the U.S. stopped sharing intelligence with them, it raised the question of what is the point of having the U.S. if they would have this drone base, I would not share intelligence.
 
So, there are cocktails of issue which led to the deterioration of relationship between the U.S. and Niger.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. So, let's get to the effects of this now. The U.S. has an air base and about a thousand military personnel there that were instrumental for counterterrorism operations throughout much of Africa. So, why is losing them such a big deal?
 
AJALA:  Big deal because this drone bass, which you mentioned, is the largest U.S. drone bass for such activity in the whole of Africa. So, since it's opened a couple of years ago, it's been used for intelligence gathering. It's been used to monitor GID (ph) activities and movements in the region. And then the U.S. then share -- shares the information with the allies in West Africa and the Sahel.
 
So, it's a very strategic drone base as well, because the location of the drone base in Agadez is almost right at the center of the entire Sahel. So, drones flown from this area could easily cover many countries and almost the entire Sahel.
 
So, losing this drone base would weaken counterterrorism operations in the region because it would be more difficult to gather intelligence. The Sahel is a massive, massive area. And being unable to capture the -- and understand the movement of terrorist organizations would weaken counterterrorism operations.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, we're talking about groups like, Al Qaeda, Islamic State, which have been very active. So, what has been -- America's loss has presumably been Russia's gain this month, as I mentioned earlier, Russian troops have been arriving there. They're planning to build an air defense system. There are signs of greater ties between the two countries. And for many who support the, the junta, there seems to be this growing anti-American sentiment, and they seem to be welcoming Russians with open arms, like this woman. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  We cooperated with the Americans and the French. Did we have to do that all these years? No. Russia is like a guarantee for the African people, for Niger in particular.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  So, let me ask you, why is Russia taking an interest in Niger? And what will that mean, do you think?
 
AJALA:  Firstly, before I talk about why they're taking an interest, the information on ground, which we've seen even through research and intelligence gathering, is that despite the presence of the French and the Americans, terrorist activities have increased in the last couple of years. So, the sentiment is rife all across the region in Burkina Faso, in Mali.
 
And going back to Russia, I think Russia just found this gap and they feel this is an opportunity. And personally, I think it's due to a bit of poor diplomatic relationship. Diplomatically, I think it's not been handled very well from the U.S. perspective, but that's another discussion. But interestingly, Russia found a gap and they are willing to fill the gap.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
One other issue is the issue of human rights. The U.S. and the allies in the E.U., France, always maintained and insist on human rights in founding terrorism. And this creates an issue because Russia comes in with this idea or this notion of, we will give you all the required equipment. We would allow you -- I would even supply and give you the troops to fight the terrorists.
 
So, on ground, they feel Russia is more willing and ready to commit more in terms of weapons, in terms of resources and in terms of personnel to help them fight terrorists side by side. They feel they would benefit more with this kind of assistance than what the U.S. and the allies are providing.
 
BRUNHUBER:  And presumably Russia is interested in resource extraction, which obviously China has been very active with as well in Africa. So, I'm wondering -- we only have about a minute left, but I'm wondering what comes next? I mean, the U.S. is looking for alternatives to its lost drone base in Niger. So, what options do they have?
 
AJALA:  They've muted the idea of Ghana, of Cote d'Ivoire and Benin as possible areas. Chad was also mentioned, but just last week, we also have that there was an issue with Chad, asking some battalion -- or some sections of the U.S. military to leave as well.
 
So, it creates a dilemma because Niger is very central. All these countries muted. They are not as central as Niger. So, it remains to be seen how this would unfold. But I think they could still -- the U.S. could still salvage this by having a kind of agreement to continue to use the base. Even if they move out the military, they should, respectfully, because this is one of the things that was talked about, that the U.S. Talk to them in a condescending manner.
 
I think, there should be improved diplomacy in dealing with them on how to find a way to continue to use the drone base in Agadez.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. We'll have to leave it there. Really appreciate your analysis. Olayinka Ajala, thank you so much.
 
AJALA:  Thank you for having me. Thank you.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Still to come here on "CNN Newsroom", an ongoing doctors' strike paralyzes Kenya's health system. How it's affecting some patients in need of care. We'll have that after the break. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Here in the U.S., pro-Palestinian protests continued at Columbia University for a fourth straight day.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We want justice, you say now.
 
CROWD:  We want justice, you say now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  A student from Barnard College, which is affiliated with Columbia tells CNN she was suspended temporarily and banned from campus for participating in the demonstrations. Maryam Iqbal says, she was given only 15 minutes to pack up her belongings and leave the campus. Iqbal was one of more than 100 people arrested on Thursday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARYAM IQBAL, SUSPENDED BARNARD COLLEGE STUDENT:  I don't regret anything that I did. I -- like, this is probably the best moment of my life. I remember, like, for the last so many years of my life, it's been like nobody knew what Palestine was.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Pro-Palestinian students and faculty members have camped out on the lawns of Columbia since Wednesday, demanding that the university divest funds from companies connected to Israel.
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
?Turning now to Kenya, where thousands of doctors have been on strike for weeks demanding better working conditions, but the situation is leaving many people in dire need of health care. CNN's Larry Madowo has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Thousands of doctors in Kenya have been on strike for over a month now, leaving many people struggling to find health care. Public health care doctors are asking the government to honor a collective bargaining agreement set back in 2017, but talks are at a standstill.
 
The Kenyan Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union is demanding better wages, better work conditions and health insurance for its members.
 
MADOWO:  The government says, it cannot afford what you're asking for, that we have to live within our means. What's your response to that?
 
DAVJI BHIMJI ATTELLAH, KENYA MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS, PHARMACISTS AND DENTISTS UNION:  It's not about affordability, it's about priority. You can't say that healthcare is essential when you don't budget for it, as has been said. That's why doctors are out to show that they need to be actually factored and they need to be budgeted for. That is for payment of salaries for those who are -- who need to be posted as per the agreement. Not being reduced, and also to pay for the doctors who are actually working. Because you have doctors who work and their salaries delay for up to six months. MADOWO:  Public health facilities across Kenya have been paralyzed by the doctors' strike. But there's no shortage of private hospitals if you can afford it. But for those who don't have the money, it's a matter of life and death.
 
JANE AKOT, MOTHER OF CANCER PATIENT (through translator):  We were meant to see the doctor today because she cannot swallow any food. The doctor was supposed to perform a procedure on her so that she can be able to eat, but we got sent back and asked to come tomorrow at midday because there were no doctors available today. We shall try again tomorrow to see if we shall find any.
 
MADOWO (voice-over):  Hundreds of doctors and medical students have taken part in demonstrations in the Kenyan capital to show support for the strike. Last month, the Kenyan Health Ministry assigned the interns to various health care facilities nationwide to address the growing need for health care and urged doctors to end their strike and resume work.
 
MADOWO:  For how long can you keep this strike going?
 
ATELLAH:  It's doctors who are tired, who feel like there's nothing they're losing by being in the hospitals when the only thing they can do is to supervise deaths of patients. And therefore, we can go as long as it takes. Most of the instances, doctors in the hospitals, they don't have the emergency drugs. So, you end up losing a patient that otherwise you would have saved.
 
MADOWO:  Larry Madowo, CNN, Nairobi.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: I'm Kim Brunhuber. I'll be back with more "CNN Newsroom" at the top of the hour. "Marketplace Asia" is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
(MARKETPLACE ASIA)
 <br>[05:00:00]