Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Widow says she will Carry on Fight against Putin Regime; Gaza Death Toll Surpasses 29,000; Israeli Economy Slumps; W.H.O. says Pandemic Accord will not Force Governments to Cede Sovereignty; Top Winners of 77th British Academy Film Awards. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired February 19, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Alexei Navalny's widow has just arrived at an EU Foreign Ministers meeting bringing her husband's 
 
 message to the world. It is 3 pm in Brussels, 5 pm in Moscow where remembering the deceased Russian opposition figure can be a punishable 
 
 offense. And it is 6 pm here in Abu Dhabi in the UAE. This is "Connect the World", I'm Becky Anderson.
 
Here's what else we are following over the next two hours for you. Those European Ministers are discussing what else they can do to support Kyiv 
 
 after Russia takes over a new battleground city. Gaza's largest functioning hospital now completely out of service. And another brutal storm threatens 
 
 the U.S. West Coast.
 
Share with me in rage, that message from the widow a Russian Opposition Leader Alexei Navalny. Yulia Navalnaya, vowing to carry on her late 
 
 husband's fight against Vladimir Putin's regime take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YULIA NAVALNAYA, WIDOW OF ALEXEI NAVALNY: In a cowardly way, they're hiding his body not showing to his mother, not giving to his mother. They're lying 
 
 and they're waiting for the traces of another of Putin's Novichok to disappear.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Rights group says hundreds were detained over the weekend for vigils for Navalny that some of them at least have been released. For 
 
 more let's bring in Clare Sebastian from London. Clare first it's been three days since we got word of Navalny's death. What do we know about the 
 
 details of his death? Now has anybody from his family actually seen his body at this point?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We know very little, Becky and no, as far as we're aware, at this stage, no one has seen his body his mother and 
 
 his lawyer we understand arrived in that remote far north polar region where he was being held in a prison there. They arrived on Saturday this 
 
 morning.
 
I think for a second time we understand went to the morgue to try to see if they can recover the body. They were turned away. They were told nothing 
 
 separately. According to the spokesperson for Navalny, Kira Yarmysh, she has posted on X today that the Investigative Committee in that region has 
 
 extended the investigation into his death for an indefinite period.
 
They don't know when it will be finished. They have previously said that until that investigation has finished that they will not be releasing the 
 
 body and no official cause of death as of yet. Separately, we heard from the Kremlin as well today confirming very briefly without as is tradition 
 
 mentioning the name Navalny, Dmitry Peskov saying that an investigation is quote, underway.
 
So it's all a little cryptic, seems a little unclear at this point, but no sign of the body as of yet. That is the situation it may be that they are 
 
 trying to test how long his mother and his lawyer are willing to wait in that remote far north region.
 
ANDERSON: Tell us more about Yulia's comments, his wife's comments. It does sound like she's ready to pick up the fight at this point.
 
SEBASTIAN: Yeah, I mean, this was the approach essentially mandated by her husband, he said, you'll remember Becky in a CNN documentary in 2022, that 
 
 if he was to die, there was no option to give up everyone should carry on and she is now essentially taking that baton no time to be sad.
 
She's rebranding herself as a political force saying that she will essentially pick up where her husband left off and keep the movement going. 
 
 Take a listen to a little more of what she said in the video clip posted just a short while ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NAVALNAYA: I asked you to share your rage, rage, anger and hatred with me towards those who are daring enough to kill our future. And I address you 
 
 with Alexei's words, which I believe it is not a shame to do. It's not a shame to do little but it's a shame not to do anything. It's a shame to 
 
 make yourself intimidated.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So she is taking this very emotional moment associated with the death of her husband and essentially trying to use that to spur this 
 
 movement forward. And she has an opportunity. She has the international spotlight she has right now. As you mentioned meeting with European Foreign 
 
 Ministers in Brussels, she could pick up that baton use this spotlight to try to keep this going.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
Although of course in the country where we've already seen you know videos of people removing memorials to Navalny. People tried to leave flowers 
 
 being forcibly removed by police. It is unclear how an opposition movement could flourish in that climate, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Clare Sebastian is on the story out of London. Let's see if we can get to CNN's Matthew Chance now. He is joining us from Moscow. Not sure 
 
 that we've got him as of yet, but he is just where a memorial for Alexei Navalny is sort of growing in size. It has to be said, people leaving 
 
 flowers, leaving notes, leaving photographs.
 
And you know, this is obviously in an atmosphere where you can be taken in, taken off the street, you can be arrested for just showing support for any 
 
 sort of sense that you are not in support of what is going on politically in Moscow. So do we have Matthew? All right, this is a report that Matthew 
 
 filed earlier.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, I mean, it's been a shocked reaction. Everybody knew who Alexei Navalny was as the 
 
 country's most prominent Opposition Leader. And everybody is shocked if not surprised that he met this untimely death in his penal colony in the far 
 
 north of the country.
 
You're joining me now in the middle of Moscow, right outside the FSB headquarters where you can see people are still coming in, there's a lady 
 
 just done that man. Some more people over here. They're coming to pay their respects to offer sympathy and condolences to the family and friends and 
 
 the organization of Alexei Navalny.
 
These are all the flowers that have been put down so far. Just go ahead -- and as I say, this is a monument to the victims of repression during the 
 
 Soviet period. And so it's interesting that this is the place where people have chosen to come and pay their respects to Alexei Navalny.
 
There's a photograph of him here, somebody is laid that. People are putting traditional red roses, children's picture over here, saying on the 
 
 tombstone there, Alexei Navalny -- which means hero.
 
And that's how, of course, many people in this country see him her as. Now, just the act of putting that flower on this memorial is risky in a country 
 
 like Russia, because all kinds of dissents, all kinds of political opposition have been crushed by the Kremlin.
 
And even though people are doing this now, it's not large numbers, but as I said -- flows, you can say, shows just how angry and how much people are 
 
 sort of braving that repression to come out and put these flowers on this - - Remember, across the country, hundreds of people have been dragged from these snowy parks, in towns and cities across Russia, and taken away and 
 
 detained for doing exactly this.
 
And so it is a huge risk that people are taking, because there's a whole line of people coming here now, a huge risk that people are taking to come 
 
 out and pay their respects to Alexei Navalny, Russia's most prominent opposition figure.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: And Matthew, joining us now from Moscow and you've been there now, for some time, as people pay their respects. And as you rightly point 
 
 out, I mean, this is a risky thing to do. Who is it? Who is prepared to take that risk? How would you describe those who are paying their respects? 
 
 And what's the mood?
 
CHANCE: Well, I mean, the mood is very dark and people are very shocked. And there are a lot of people in real grief and crying, not just that the 
 
 fact of Alexei Navalny died in such difficult circumstances in the Arctic prison, but also what it means about the state of Russia, and what it means 
 
 for their future.
 
That's what people are largely concerned about. And in terms of the kinds of people that are gathering here, what you're seeing young and old, you 
 
 know, men and women, you know, across the political gender divide in this country, and that was one of the key things about Alexei Navalny.
 
He was able, unlike other opposition figures, to talk to everybody because he emphasized this issue of corruption. And if you know anything about 
 
 Russia, or you live in Russia, you know that corruption touches everybody's lives. And, and it was a real sensitive nerve that he managed to sort of 
 
 focus on and that's why he was able to bring tens of thousands of people out onto the street in various demonstrations over the years.
 
And when millions of people watched his highly produced online investigations into official corruption, but you're right, in the culture, 
 
 in the climate of Russia right now.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
It takes a very bright person to come out put your head above the parapet, put flowers like these people are doing right now in such a public way in 
 
 the view of the authorities. I mean, there's a petition that's been signed by tens of thousands of people as well, calling on the authorities to 
 
 return the body to the family as soon as possible.
 
I mean, just to put your name on a petition, it means you have to give your name, you have to give your email, you have to give your address, that 
 
 raises your profile in a way that can be dangerous in a country where hundreds if not thousands of people have been put away for political 
 
 reasons particularly in the course of the past couple of years, as Russia really cracks down on opposition and on dissent, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Matthew Chance is in Moscow. Matthew, thank you. I want to get you to Ukraine now where Russian troops raised flags in several parts. So 
 
 of the eastern town of Avdiivka in Donetsk, that's after Ukrainian troops withdrew. Now Russia also appears to be building up its forces along the 
 
 front lines and Zaporizhzhia, for example, in the south, some analysts say a Russian force of up to 50,000 troops as gathered.
 
Fred Pleitgen is on the story for us today. He is in Berlin, but you've been in and out of Ukraine, of course, reporting on this story for now, 
 
 what is nearly two years the anniversary of the beginning of Russia's war in Ukraine just a week or so away? Just how significant has this loss of 
 
 territory been for Ukraine?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think it's quite significant for the Ukrainians. They certainly believe that they 
 
 were going to be able to hold on especially to argue for a little and maybe even a lot longer than they actually have been one of the things about 
 
 Avdiivka though it's a very small place.
 
It's kind of a suburb of the very large town of Donetsk, the main town in Donetsk Oblast. It was also nearly encircled by the Russians for quite a 
 
 while the Ukrainians were able to hold on however, the Russians had been pounding the place for quite some time. But I think there's several things 
 
 that we can see now, that certainly are really significant for how the future of the battlefield could shape up and you mentioned a lot of them 
 
 just there, Becky.
 
Right now, the Russian is pressing on several fronts pressing, for instance, in that area of Zaporizhzhia, as you said, which is the place 
 
 where in last year, the Ukrainians attempted that massive counter offensive, which of course, in the end fizzled. Now, it seems as though the 
 
 Russians are pushing back on those areas.
 
And then across the eastern front line, there are two things that really stand out. And that is that the Ukrainians are badly outgunned, of course, 
 
 very difficult for them to get enough ammunition from the NATO allies that have been pledging to send ammunition but of course, the main thing is that 
 
 US AID has dried up.
 
And that's really something that you can feel on the battlefield and that we could also see when you went to frontline Ukrainian positions. And the 
 
 other thing is that the Ukrainians are also very badly outmanned, as well. The Russians have a lot more soldiers who are on the front lines, the 
 
 Ukrainians have had difficulty getting enough people mobilized to go to the front lines and fight there.
 
So right now is a very difficult battle for them. And some of the numbers of the Ukrainians have been putting out had been quite staggering where 
 
 they said that in order to get Avdiivka, the Russians have expended thousands, if not tens of thousands of soldiers to try and take that place 
 
 and hundreds of tanks and armored vehicles.
 
So apparently comes, huge casualties to the Russians. The other big thing that appears to have changed is that the Russian air power has become a lot 
 
 more prevalent, the Russians have managed to allow their bombs to fly a lot further than they have in the past, leaving them out of range of Ukrainian 
 
 air defense systems, at least in the battlefield area, so that's definitely very difficult for the Ukrainians to cope with, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Fred Pleitgen on Ukraine for you, Fred, good to have you. Thank you. Well, the Israeli Cabinet Minister Benny Gantz says that Israel's 
 
 military operations in the Southern Gaza City of Rafah will expand if Hamas does not return the remaining hostages by Ramadan.
 
Now the Muslim holy month is expected to start in the second week of March. Meanwhile, Israeli forces have put Gaza's largest functioning hospital the 
 
 Nasser medical complex completely out of service, according to Gaza's Health Ministry. The IDF moved into the hospital last Thursday after 
 
 bombarding the area for days or the situation in Gaza growing worse after at least 107 Palestinians were killed in the last 24 hours.
 
The Gaza Health Ministry says that the death toll since October the 7th is now more than 29,000. Well, at The Hague today, the International Court of 
 
 Justice is opened hearings on the legal status of Palestinian territories are occupied by Israel.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
The Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad Maliki demanded an immediate end to Israel's occupation. Let's bring in CNN's Nic Robertson in Tel Aviv. Let's 
 
 start with Rafah, what's been the international reaction to threats of an incursion and I have to say, a more scheduled threat than we have had to 
 
 date, Nic.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: It is, and the threat really appears intended not only to put pressure on the 1.5, close to 1.5 
 
 million people that are living in Rafah, this most confined and constrained area. The area that U.N. says is now the most sort of populous place, 
 
 densely populated place in the world, not only to put pressure on the civilians there.
 
Although the government here says, they will get the civilians out of the way to safety. But what we saw over the weekend, civilians leaving the 
 
 Rafah area where they've been hiding out in tents, trying to sort of stay warm and dry, and got caught in bombing elsewhere, so even leaving the area 
 
 of Rafah, no guarantee of safety.
 
But this is also pressure the government's putting on Hamas by giving it a deadline and saying you need to, you know, succumb to the our position on 
 
 the handing over of hostages, you need to accept our terms for whatever kind of ceasefire we the Israeli government are willing to offer.
 
And also they've been talking about, you know, where is Yahya Sinwar, the Political Leader of Hamas suggesting here that he is sort of absent that 
 
 he's no longer really in command that Hamas is looking for another leader, all of which Hamas is just knocking down and saying that's not true.
 
But by setting a deadline on Rafah, this really ramps up, attempts to ramp up negotiating pressure on Hamas, but the Israeli government is very 
 
 clearly intent to move ahead militarily. And of course, this is causing massive concern internationally, it doesn't matter which NGO or U.N. 
 
 department you speak to, they all have massive concerns, because the people there really have nowhere to go.
 
They are already short of food, their medical facilities available to them that ever shrinking you've just mentioned in the Al Nasser Hospital, a 
 
 second largest in Gaza effectively, you know, out of bounds to Palestinians for treatment. So all of this is causing massive concern, but a call for a 
 
 ceasefire, but no one seems to have enough pressure internationally to actually get Israel and its government to change course, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: And those courses continue. Nevertheless, they have been some 120 odd, maybe 130 odd days in the making now. Our next hour, thank you, Nic, 
 
 I'll speak to the Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki, who spoke at the ICJ this morning and demanded once again an immediate end to 
 
 Israel's occupation.
 
Not everybody was celebrating as Israeli swimmer Anastasia Gorbenko won the silver medal in the women's 400 meter individual medley at the World 
 
 Aquatics Championship in Doha in Qatar on Sunday. 20 year old was met with jeers and boos from the crowd on the metal podium.
 
She was born to Ukrainian parents and raised in Israel. She said after the race, it's not the first time she's been heckled at an event she told a 
 
 reporter quote, I've been here a week, I heard all these noises, but I'm with earplugs. I'm in my zone. I'm here to do what I love to do, which is 
 
 sports.
 
So I'm just so happy to be here, representing my country in this hard time. Being here with the Israeli flag means a lot to me and to my country. So 
 
 that is the best that I can do. The U.S. West Coast is already soaked by extreme weather is being targeted by another so called atmospheric river 
 
 and it could bring floods to tens of millions of people.
 
We'll hear from our weather center folks, up next. And China says the Lunar New Year holiday was a boom time for travel spending but the world's second 
 
 largest economy remains under pressure. More on that is coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: You're watching "Connect the World", I'm Becky Anderson. Another round of storms hitting the U.S. West Coast nearly the entire population of 
 
 California is facing heavy rain, potential flooding and high winds and the state is already waterlogged from what was the previous storm.
 
Let's get you CNN's Meteorologist Derek Van Dam who is tracking all of this just how unprecedented is this, Derek?
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: OK, well, Becky, you know, atmospheric rivers provide about 50 percent of California's precipitation throughout 
 
 the course of a year. This is yet another atmospheric river but what it's doing is adding to the De Luz that this month and previous months this 
 
 winter have seen so far across the state, in fact some locations including Los Angeles chasing their wettest February on record.
 
And this is the result of that heavy rain when you combine that with its steep terrain in the mountains. You get landslides, you get rock slides, 
 
 and those are obviously extremely dangerous that can close roadways, isolate communities. Here's that moment when it happened overnight in the 
 
 Del Norte region in California.
 
Now when we talked about some of the wettest February's on record, we only have a few 100 millimeters to go really before we reach that record in Los 
 
 Angeles. So this is significant. We are well above average for San Diego, Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, over 200 millimeters in some locations.
 
And it's all thanks to this atmospheric river. What is that? Well it is in a river of moisture or water vapor in the upper levels of the atmosphere. 
 
 What that does is it picks up this moisture and water from the ocean and deposited as rain and heavy snowfall into the mountain ranges of the West 
 
 Coast.
 
This time it's aimed at California. You can see the rain better in Los Angeles, there's the snow with the shading of white, that's the Sierra 
 
 Nevada mountain range. We could be measuring that in feet, not in inches here going forward. So nearly the entire state under some sort of flood 
 
 alerts that shading of red just to the west of Los Angeles, that's Ventura and Santa Barbara Counties.
 
They're under flash flood warnings because we are getting the consistent rainfall and it is running perpendicular to the mountain ranges that are 
 
 located across this region. So the atmosphere, almost pushing a wet sponge against the wall, kind of extracting that available water producing the 
 
 rainfall, especially on those hillsides slopes.
 
The rain continues in the day tomorrow, focusing its attention on the San Francisco Bay area but for today, it's really Santa Barbara, Los Angeles to 
 
 a lesser extent but certainly some minor urban flooding. And along the northern coastline there you can see storm totals anywhere from 100 to 125 
 
 millimeters going forward.
 
So there's a snow it will extend inland. There is also a lot of wind associated with this. We could see gusts in excess of 100 kilometers per 
 
 hour on some of those higher elevations. So a stormy starts, Becky to say the least. This by the way, I have to mention very rare chance of tornadoes 
 
 today across the Central Valley as well.
 
ANDERSON: Wow! Derek Van Dam in the house was good to have you sir. Thank you.
 
VAN DAM: All right, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Still to come. China reports record travel and spending data as the Lunar New Year draws to an end. But concerns remain over the world's 
 
 second largest economy, why more on that coming up and London rolled out the red carpet for the BAFTA Awards on Sunday. We'll find out who won big 
 
 in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, you're watching "Connect the World" here on CNN. U.S. stock markets shut today. It's 
 
 Presidents Day with plenty to catch you up on right here in this region, starting with a sharp slump in Israel's economy. GDP in the fourth quarter 
 
 fell nearly 20 percent amid the war against Hamas. 
 
The Bank of Israel predicting the conflict will cost the country around $70 billion by the end of 2025. Well, the Shanghai Stock Exchange got a boost 
 
 Monday the first day of trading after the Lunar New Year holiday. Chinese government figures showed spending by travelers in the holiday week was up 
 
 sharply from the same time last year. But there are still concerns that a crisis hit property sector is continues to act as a drag on the world's 
 
 second largest economy. CNN's Marc Stewart has more from Beijing for you. 
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: China is reporting record travel data for the Lunar New Year holiday as the world's second largest economy works to 
 
 regain its footing. But there is some room for skepticism. There is no question people were on the move domestically. 474 million trips according 
 
 to the government up from pre-COVID days, although international travel was below pre-pandemic levels. But you can look at this at its face value.
 
CNN calculations based on official data show the average tourism related spending per trip was below pre-pandemic. This most recent holiday season 
 
 took place over eight days from February 10th to February 18th, which was one more day than previous periods. 
 
China's economy is dealing with many challenges. In January, consumer prices fell by their fastest pace in 15 years, marking a fourth straight 
 
 month of decline and the property sector remains sluggish while the job market is still under pressure. 
 
Perhaps a sign of people trying to escape all the gloomy news, movie ticket sales reached a record of more than $1 billion during the holiday. The end 
 
 of the holiday mark the opening of the Chinese stock market with the Shanghai Composite and the Shenzhen index seen modest gains. Marc Stewart 
 
 CNN, Beijing. 
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, it's nearly 10 months since the World Health Organization ended their global emergency status for COVID-19. Can you believe it? You 
 
 remember COVID, that bizarre time in our lives when you had to keep apart from your mates when hand sanitizer and toilet paper were in short supply 
 
 and when being negative was a positive thing. 
 
But if that seems like a distant memory, the W.H.O. is urging us not to forget, because two years before COVID-19 emerged its Director General 
 
 Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned at the World Government Summit in Dubai that the world was not prepared for a pandemic. 
 
Last week standing on the same stage reflecting on everything that's happened since then he said we were still not prepared. He said, and I 
 
 quote, the cycle of panic and neglect is beginning to repeat. The painful lessons we learned are in danger of being forgotten, as attention turns to 
 
 the many other crises confronting our world. But he said if we fail to learn those lessons, we will pay dearly, next time. 
 
And that is why Dr. Tedros told me, he thinks we need or he knows we need, he says, a global pact for governments to coordinate on a future pandemic 
 
 response, what the W.H.O. calls a pandemic accord. He explained what that would look like and addressed concerns over a disease x, in what was an 
 
 exclusive interview that I have with Dr. Tedros, have a watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TEDROS ADHANOM GHEBREYESUS, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION: You know, W.H.O. for decades lists the, you know, this is of focus, if you 
 
 like and then this could be merged or Ebola, SARS, these are the known ones. But then a question came, OK, we know this, but how about an unknown 
 
 this is emerging. Then we decided we have agreed to put a placeholder and that's the disease X for the unknown. And we did that in 2018 for the first 
 
 time, and in 2019 COVID-19.
 
ANDERSON: There isn't some mysterious disease out there that you call disease X that we should be worried about that you're not telling us about 
 
 at present.
 
GHEBREYESUS: No. So, the first disease x is actually COVID. And we may have another one in the future. So we can have a placeholder that could be this 
 
 is Y, Z or X. And this helps us to prepare because many of the pathogens need you know, have something in common like many of the tools you use 
 
 could be used for the unknowns as well. 
 
And we are not prepared because still many of the problems we have seen during the pandemic are still there. For instance, information sharing, you 
 
 know, timely and transparent, especially related to surveillance. There is a problem sharing of pathogens, there is a problem sharing of technology 
 
 that is a problem. Coordination, global coordination, there is a problem.
 
ANDERSON: You are calling on member states the world to sign up to a pandemic pact, there's a self-imposed deadline of May this year, some 15 
 
 weeks from now. Why is a pandemic pact important? What does it look like? And you are well aware that there is much skepticism in some parts of the 
 
 world about the W.H.O. organizing around this accord. It worries people.
 
GHEBREYESUS: The party is about sharing information, which has a problem with sharing timely information that makes us safe. And then when anything 
 
 happens, we developed tools. So sharing those tools will be in the agreement. What's the problem with sharing tools, like the vaccines or 
 
 medicine for treatment? What's the problem?
 
And then sharing pathogens, what's the problem with that, as well? So conspiracy theory, which is coming is W.H.O. is going to, you know, we're 
 
 going to cede sovereignty to W.H.O. which is not the -- 
 
ANDERSON: Seed sovereignty.
 
GHEBREYESUS: Seed sovereignty to W.H.O.
 
ANDERSON: That's the talk out there.
 
GHEBREYESUS: Exactly which is not true. This agreement is by countries for countries and it will be implemented when agreed by countries. So they will 
 
 not see any sovereignty when they implement, they implement the pandemic code based on their national laws.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
ANDERSON: Can you make a prediction about how far away we are from another pandemic? And what that might look like today? 
 
GHEBREYESUS: You know it's very difficult to call it a prediction not only me and many others were also talking about it. It's from what we see the 
 
 gaps are in our system. So if anything happens, we're not prepared, so anything can happen. 
 
It's a matter of time. It's a matter of when, but we can avoid that, we can prevent it in the first place. Or we can identify it early and respond 
 
 quickly and we can minimize the damage and we will not suffer like what we suffered during this pandemic. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: The head of the W.H.O. speaking to me recently. Well next up, Bayern beware, a third street defeat for German football team Bayern Munich 
 
 questions now being asked about their manager. And from big defeats to big wins a great night for Emma Stone and Cillian Murphy at the BAFTAs, more on 
 
 that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, it was a night of glitz and glam in London on Sunday. Oppenheimer is the big winner at the 77th British Academy Film Awards or 
 
 otherwise known as BAFTAs. The biopic about the man who helped usher in the nuclear age got 30 nominations and won seven awards. My colleague, Max 
 
 Foster has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): London, rolling out the red carpet. 
 
FOSTER: Welcome to the BAFTAs the biggest night of the year for the British movie industry. 
 
PHOEBE DYNEVOR, NOMINEE, EE RISING STAR: So much talent comes out of England. So to be here, it's exciting. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm having the best time kind of absolutely mental, but also just in the best way. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): The British Academy Film Awards are where cinema royalty meets UK royalty. But some glamour was missing this year as the 
 
 Princess of Wales continues to recover from surgery. Prince William attended alone, signaling that Kate is at least well enough for him to 
 
 return to public duties. The night is a celebration of British culture. 
 
Seeing Sophie Ellis-Bextor perform her 2001 single "Murder on the Dancefloor" currently experiencing a social media explosion after his 
 
 appearance in "Saltburn". 
 
SOPHIE ELLIS-BEXTOR, SINGER AND SONGWRITER: Other songs have had resurgence like many decades after they're released, never in a million years thought 
 
 I would be able to experience that. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): The ceremony also paid tribute to those impacted by the war in Ukraine as "20 Days in Mariupol" took home the prize for best 
 
 documentary.
 
MSTYSLAV CHERNOV, DIRECTOR, "20 DAYS IN MARIUPOL": Thank you for empowering our voice. Let's just keep fighting.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
FOSTER (voice-over): But alongside the impassioned political statements, the ceremony found some lighter moments.
 
HUGE GRANT, ACTOR, "WONKA": Most of these films were frankly too long. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a national emergency. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): Despite taking some heat for his three hour runtime, Oppenheimer cleaned up, bringing home seven BAFTAs in total. 
 
CILLIAN MURPHY, ACTOR, "OPPENHEIMER": I want to thank my fellow nominees and my up and homies I was trying that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The BAFTA goes to.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: "Poor things".
 
FOSTER (voice-over): An imaginative feminist take on Frankenstein. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Good evening.
 
FOSTER (voice-over): "Poor Things" also took home five awards, including leading actress.
 
EMMA STONE, ACTOR, "POOR THINGS": Thank you for the line, I must go punch that baby. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): And in a BAFTA's first, the award for the best film, not in the English language went to a British film "The Zone of Interest". 
 
CLAIRE FOY, ACTOR, "ALL OF US STRANGERS": I think the BAFTAs celebrate smaller films in a way, which I think is really amazing. But I think it's 
 
 really important that younger filmmakers are appreciated and that it's a diverse set of filmmakers. 
 
FOSTER: So what does this tell us about who might win or the Oscars are not very much, it seems because only two of the winners of Best Movie here are 
 
 the BAFTAs have gone on to win at the Oscars as well as over the last 10 years. So it's all sorts of play for. Max Foster, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, it seems it's all to play for in German football as well. There's growing pressure on Bayern Munich's manager after a miserable 
 
 defeat in the Bundesliga. Ten-man Bayern lost 3-2 to Bochum, Bochum, it's the third straight defeat for Thomas Tuchel side and questions now being 
 
 asked about his leadership. 
 
Let's get you more on this with Amanda Davies joining me now. I mean, it feels like he's already just got there. And he's already been talked about 
 
 as a sort of marked man. Just explain why. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yeah, I'm very much in keeping with the BAFTA film theme, one of his players at Bayern Munich, Leon Goretzka has 
 
 actually described what is happening at Bayern Munich at the moment as like a horror film that never ends. That puts into context just how bad from a 
 
 player's perspective it feels at the moment.
 
And there really does seem to have been something of a split in the dressing room. Bayern Munich, you know the team that have won the 
 
 Bundesliga 11 times in a row, but are on their worst run for nine years having won these three competitive games in a row, three games in nine 
 
 days. 
 
The official word from the club is that they're not looking at the future of Thomas Tuchel yet, but we are about to hear from a man who believes 
 
 differently. He's coming away in "World Sport" in just a couple of minutes.
 
ANDERSON: You're such a tease. That's "World Sport" coming up after this short break. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END