Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Kamala Harris Secures Enough Delegate Support to Win 2024 Democratic Presidential Nomination; Secret Service And Its Chief Under Pressure Over Trump Shooting; Netanyahu Visits Washington Amid Presidential Chaos; Bodycam Video Reveals Chaotic Scene Of Deputy Fatally Shooting Sonya Massey; Rare, Bipartisan Call for Secret Service Chief to Resign; Can Harris Beat Trump; Harris Team Vetting Potential Runing Mates; Hundreds of Women and Girls Say They Face Regular Harm Online; Delta Still Cancelling flights Due to Global Tech Outage; Protecting Paris During the Olympics; Meteorologists Keep Eye on the Weather During Games. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired July 23, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[01:00:25]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Ahead here on CNN Newsroom.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: So hear me when I say I know Donald Trump's type. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: It's the former prosecutor versus the convicted felon, Kamala Harris securing enough delegates support to win the Democratic presidential nomination.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You're full of shit today. You're just being completely dishonest.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Those words sum up almost four hours of testimony by the director of the Secret Service before the U.S. Congress.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Netanyahu is now sitting down with a man who is squarely focused on his legacy, untethered from the constraints of electoral politics.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Biden said to meet with the Israeli prime minister, whose war in Gaza costs U.S. president vital support among Democratic voters.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: On the first full day of campaigning as a candidate for U.S. president, Kamala Harris appears to have secured enough support among party delegates to win the Democratic nomination. According to a CNN estimate based on public statements of support from delegates and state delegations, CNN reporting, as well as conversations with delegates, the Vice President has well over the 1,976 delegates needed to win on the first ballot. 
 
One day after President Joe Biden withdrew from the campaign, Harris met with her campaign staff in Wilmington, Delaware, and outlined how she will take on her Republican opponent, Donald Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: This campaign is not just about us versus Donald Trump. There is more to this campaign than that. Our campaign has always been about two different versions of what we see as the future of our country, two different visions for the future of our country. One focused on the future, the other focused on the past.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Biden's decision to withdraw has ended weeks of uncertainty and division within the party and appears to energize Democrats. The 24 hours after Biden's announcement saw a flood of political donations for the Harris campaign, a record $81 million along with endorsements from key party elders like former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, former President Bill Clinton. But perhaps more importantly, every credible challenge to the party's nomination also endorsed the vice president. 
 
Meantime at the Trump campaign shifting strategy, now taking Harris and calling her dangerously liberal. Trump's running mate J.D. Vance accused house of lying about Biden's fitness for Office.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
J.D. VANCE, U.S. REPUBLICAN VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot for three and a half years take a guy who clearly didn't have the mental capacity to do the job. Kamala Harris lied about it. My Senate Democratic colleagues lied about it. The media lied about it. Every single person who saw Joe Biden knew that he wasn't capable of doing the job and for three years they said nothing until he became political deadweight.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Coverage of this unprecedented moment in U.S. history will begin at the White House, and CNN's MJ Lee.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Kamala Harris stepping into the brightest political spotlight of her career. Vice President making her inaugural visit Monday to what happened until Sunday, the Delaware headquarters of the Biden-Harris campaign that quickly transformed into the Harris campaign. 
 
Harris rallying campaign staff at an unprecedented political moment. Following President Joe Biden's stunning announcement Sunday to drop out of the 2024 race, Harris earlier on Monday paying tribute to not only the President's first term record.
 
HARRIS: Joe Biden's legacy of accomplishment over the past three years, is unmatched in modern history.
 
LEE (voice-over): But also his character and his patriotism.
 
HARRIS: His honesty, his integrity, his commitment to his faith and his family, his big heart and his love deep love of our country. 
 
LEE (voice-over): With just three and a half months until Election Day, Harris now running full steam ahead with Biden's full support and endorsement in hand. The new Harris campaign quickly staffing up and welcoming a boon in fundraising. Team Harris boasting an $81 million haul in its first 24 hours while future forward a major democratic super PAC securing $150 million in commitments.
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
Major democratic donors making clear to CNN the money drought is over. Her first order of business Sunday, reaching out to more than 100 individuals over the span of 10 hours, including democratic elected officials, labor leaders and civil rights and advocacy leaders, a furious effort to quickly get the party to coalesce behind her in an unprecedented political moment.
 
REP. JIM CLYBURN (D-SC): He decided to run and so I've decided to support Vice President Harris. 
 
SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): I support Vice President Harris.
 
SEN. ELIZABETH WARRNE (D-MA): When you're up against a convicted felon who better than a former prosecutor to take it straight to Donald Trump. 
 
REP. ERIC SWALWELL (D-CA): I fully support Kamala Harris. And in fact, she has been trained by the best.
 
LEE (voice-over): Former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi who worked largely behind the scenes to nudge Biden towards his decision publicly endorsing Harris on Monday. Other high profile Democrats widely seen as having presidential aspirations of their own or potentially ending up on a future Harris VP shortlist also getting behind Harris.
 
ADNY BESHEAR, KENTUCKY GOVERNOR: The Vice President is ready. She has my full endorsement. I'm going to do everything I can to support her.
 
LEE (voice-over): Biden's remarkable decision this weekend coming after he was presented with polling that showed his path to victory was basically non-existent. A person familiar telling CNN, that decision so closely held even senior most advisors barely getting a heads up.
 
In a letter addressed to the American people Biden writing, it is in the best interest of my party and the country for me to stand down and focus solely on fulfilling my duties as president for the remainder of my term.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: With me now Caroline Heldman, a professor at Occidental College and a Democratic strategist, as well as Rina Shah, Republican strategist and former senior presidential campaign adviser. Thank you both for being with us. 
 
CAROLINE HELDMAN, PROFESSOR, OCCIDENTAL COLLEGE: Good to see you, John.
 
RINA SHAH, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Thank you.
 
VAUSE: OK, so Democrats wanting to challenge Harris for this presidential nomination have until the end of the week to get into the race. Our CNN is reporting that the Democratic National Committee Chair Jim Harrison also pledged to the party being committed to an open and fair nominating process that reflects the dedication to democracy our party stands for, end quote. 
 
So Caroline to you, is that really a fair democratic process? Or is it as close as time will allow, and at this point is Kamala Harris really the best candidate to try and beat Donald Trump?
 
HELDMAN: Well, I think the party is coalescing around her. I think that that statement is a little disingenuous, because whoever wants to challenge her would have to get at least 300 pledged delegates by the end of the week, and that's a tall task. 
 
The Democratic Party is very clearly coalescing around Harris. She is the chosen candidate. All of the potential competitors have endorsed her from Newsom, right to Beshear, to Shapiro to Governor Whitmer. So she doesn't really have competition, and she already has 1,000 delegates. She only needs about 2,000, just under 2,000 delegates. So she is well on our way. And that is because the party is really coalescing behind her.
 
VAUSE: Is she the best candidate?
 
HELDMAN: Is she the best candidate? Well, you know, it would have been very risky for them to step over her. And I think what's happening now the enthusiasm I'm seeing is really unusual. So, $81 million raised in 24 hours, mostly from small donors there. The 20,000 volunteers coming forward. That is 100 times the daily average.
 
VAUSE: Well, Harris met with former Biden campaign staff now Harris campaign staff on Monday, President Biden called in. Here's part of what was said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: The name has changed the top of the ticket, but the mission hasn't changed at all. And by the way, I'm not going anywhere. I'm going to out to campaign with her.
 
HARRIS: It is so good to hear our President's voice, Joe, I know you're still on the call. 
 
BIDEN: I'm watching. I'm watching you, K. I love you.
 
HARRIS: I love you, Joe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Lot of love, Lot of love in that room. Rina, to you, a you candidate, same record as Joe Biden. But there's also real contrast here as well, the prosecutor versus a convicted felon, the woman of color against the old white man, the age factor has been flipped. So how do Republicans now orientate towards that?
 
SHAH: Well, in many ways, the identity race is already being shaped and has been shaped for some time because this matchup is the one that Kamala Harris did want back in the approach the 2020s election, now she's getting it and the Trump team should be ready to take her on.
 
You know, if they're not ready, then they've frankly been lying to the American public because so many of them that have taken that tone that this is going to be a race between Trump and Harris, no matter how long Joe Biden is able to remain in office. And now we know he's going to serve out this term. And here comes Harris with a war chest, it seems and it is, you know, that foregone conclusion that she is going to be at the top of the ticket for the Democrats in 100 some days.
 
So the time is ticking. And of course when we talk about solutions, I think that's the part of the race that I was ready to start and it's already started.
 <br>[01:10:03]
 
Kamala Harris can go after Trump on all these areas where she seems to be quite strong when it comes to abortion, for example, she does tend to pull those independent voters and even sent her right women. But at the end of the day, it comes down to the numbers and her being able to best him overall, and I am still not sure about the polling because post RNC last week's Republican National Convention, we haven't got a good readout of what people are thinking of Trump's VP pick either. 
 
VAUSE: OK, well also during that meeting with campaign staff, Harris laid out her qualifications. She also hinted at how she would go after Donald Trump. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: Before I was elected as vice president, before I was elected as United States Senator, I was the elected Attorney General. I've mentioned California before there was a courtroom prosecutor. In those roles, I took on perpetrators of all kinds. Predators who abused women, fraudsters who ripped off consumers, cheaters who broke the rules for their own gain. So hear me when I say I know Donald Trump's type.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Caroline, a Republican Congressman on Monday described Harris's presidential nomination as a DEI, reference to diversity, equity and inclusion programs in many workplaces, which are despised by those on the right. 
 
So is that a winning message from the GOP, especially when you listen to Harris's resume there, basically what they're saying is that only straight old white men can be President?
 
HELDMAN: Well, that bias is definitely built in. We know that women have a voter bias against them. And because they're not seen as properly masculine enough to be good leaders, we know that people of color face that bias as well. And Harris is facing something really unusual, right called misogyny Noir. It's bias that has both gender and race aimed at black women. And we've already seen plenty of this framing. You just brought some of it up this idea. 
 
A DEI candidate suggests she's not qualified. She obviously is. She's also been framed with the decibel frame that she slept her way to the top. It's just overt racism and sexism all wrapped up into one and your question about how it's going to play. 
 
I think it plays really well to Donald Trump's base. I think it plays less well with independents. And I think it is probably going to cause a lot of Democrats to get very angry. We saw a lot of misogyny in 2016. And I think we'll see even more of that now in 2024.
 
VAUSE: Rina, how do you see those comments and how that plays into the campaign, especially with you know, Trump's face?
 
SHAH: Well, I think Republicans ought to be a bit more scared of Kamala Harris than they are projecting at this point. You know, she has this appeal that is supposedly there with young progressives, we can expect it to sort of widen, you know, there's been a lot of frustration that's pent up between Millennials and Gen Z. Politically with Gen Z, because they delivered the White House to Biden-Harris. And would they have felt on some level is disregarded over the past couple of years by Biden. 
 
So will they take it out on Harris? I don't think so. I think they may look at her with a fresh set of eyes. And that's problematic for Republicans, because I've seen some polling that suggests that younger people are sometimes looking to be a little bit more conservative. But then, you know, we always got to take these bowls with a grain of salt.
 
VAUSE: Well, yeah, we talked about the money, which was $80 million, which jumped into the Harris campaign in the last 24, or the first 24 hours after Biden dropped out of the race. So the former Biden campaign now has cash on hand, just talking about $250 million. Rina, very quickly to you. 
 
Should the Trump campaign be concerned about that? Or is it simply a surge in fundraising, which had been on hold?
 
SHAH: Well, I do think this influx of money may have a lot more to do with people just so relieved and happy that the Democrats infighting is no longer spilling outside the beltway. You know, look, people are generally pretty happy that there's now unity in the party. There's no longer Democrats in disarray on the headlines every day of news media, and in essence, what they feel is a good energy about a very qualified vice president, she is the most accomplished and experienced one that we have seen in this office in our young country's history. 
 
So I think that has a lot to do with it. Is it personal entirely? I'm not sure. But I will say this last bit. It was good to see Kamala Harris signal that she's open to an open convention in the statement that she put out on the day that Joe Biden stuff designed. I think that can encourage some more donors and perhaps give another influx of money when it's needed. But I don't think the Republicans are that scared right now because they're counting on big dollar donors and billionaire types to come through for them.
 
VAUSE: It's good, that billionaire friends. Caroline and Rina. Thanks, you both. Good to see you. 
 
HELDMAN: Thank you, John. 
 
SHAH: Thank you.
 
VAUSE: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is in Washington right now but before leaving Israel, he spent time with the families of hostages held in Gaza.
 <br>[01:15:07]
 
Netanyahu is scheduled to address a joint session of Congress on Wednesday. Normally, Kamala Harris would preside over that session, but she declined because of scheduled travel. An aide says they will meet later this week. 
 
President Joe Biden will meet with Netanyahu Thursday. While the White House is unhappy with Netanyahu over the war in Gaza, as well as ceasefire and hostage negotiations. There is also the added political factor. Biden's support for Netanyahu's war cost the President a lot of support among Democratic voters. CNN Jerusalem correspondent Jeremy Diamond has more on the visit. And the talks.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Hanging over those negotiations as well as over the Israeli Prime Minister's trip to Washington this week is one key question. Does Netanyahu actually want a ceasefire deal? If you listen to the conventional wisdom and Israeli media politics even on the streets of Tel Aviv, the answer to that question would be no that the Israeli Prime Minister actually has much more to gain by prolonging this war than by ending it. You know, this war has allowed him to stave off elections that he
 
 would likely lose at this moment. His right wing governing coalition partners have also threatened to collapse his government if he agrees to a deal that stops the fighting. There's also evidence that the Israeli prime minister has been throwing up 11th hour obstacles to a potential deal, reneging on at least one key Israeli concession and also throwing up a new demand regarding Israeli control of that Philadelphi Corridor along Gaza border with Egypt. 
 
But the Israeli prime minister is also coming under enormous pressure right here in Israel, as well as in the United States. And he's going to face that pressure directly from President Biden and other top U.S. officials. The question is, will that pressure actually be effective coming from Biden, who is now effectively a lame duck president.
 
But at the same time, Netanyahu is now sitting down with a man who is squarely focused on his legacy, untethered from the constraints of electoral politics. So that will be a fascinating dynamic to watch. 
 
But then there's also this other possibility, which is that Netanyahu will actually be looking to someone else, perhaps, for an answer on which way he should lean regarding striking a ceasefire deal or not. And that man could be former President Donald Trump. 
 
Netanyahu is an avid and very keen watcher of U.S. politics. He will certainly be keeping a close eye on the polls and on Donald Trump's chances to become president. But it should be noted that their relationship despite Trump's steadfast support for Israel during his presidency, it is far from perfect. It has suffered a lot of turbulence actually over the last couple of years. 
 
And as of now, the Israeli Prime Minister while he will certainly meet with Trump's allies in Washington, there's no meeting scheduled yet for him with Donald Trump.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Thanks to Jeremy Diamond there reporting in from Jerusalem. Meantime, in Gaza, Israeli strikes not far from the southern city of Khan Younis have killed at least 70 people, wounded 200 others according to Gaza's Ministry of Health. 
 
Israeli military says before the strikes, evacuation order was issued for parts of Khan Younis. But some residents in the evacuation zone say they received no such warning. According to hospital officials, women and children are among the dead. The health ministry says they are among more than 39,000 Palestinians killed since the war began 290 days ago. 
 
Still to come, a grilling like no other the head of the U.S. Secret Service, facing bipartisan calls to resign after a contentious hearing on Capitol Hill over the attempted assassination of Donald Trump. 
 
Also head, Illinois Police have released a body cam footage of the moment a woman was shot and killed by police in her own home. Details of her family's call for justice is next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:20:52]
 
VAUSE: In the United States. Illinois Police have released body camera footage showing the moment and officer fatally shot 36-year old black woman in her home. Deputy Sean Grayson was charged with murder after shooting Sonya Massey three times. Here's is part of that footage and a warning the video you're about to see is disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stack right there maybe.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK.
 
SONYA MASSEY, SHOT BY POLICE OFFICER: Once second.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We don't need a fire while we're here.
 
MASSEY: Right. Where you moving?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You.
 
MASSEY: Where you going?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Away from your hot steaming water.
 
MASSEY: Away from my hot steaming water.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
MASSEY: I rebuke you in the name of Jesus.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Huh?
 
MASSEY: I rebuke you in the name of --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You better fucking not. I swear to God. I'll fucking shoot you at your fucking face.
 
MASSEY: OK. I'm sorry.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Drop the fucking pot. Drop the fucking pot.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Ben Crump the lawyer representing Sonia Messey's family says she had called 911 for help. She thought there was an intruder in the home. Crump says she was dealing with some issues and needed a helping hand not a bullet to the face. As his family says they will seek justice for her death.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES WILBURN, SONYA MESSEY'S FATHER: You know you always get the same thing these platitudes from people. You know you have my prayers and my sympathy. But you know what I want? I want justice for my baby. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah. Yes, sir.
 
WILURN: You killed the wrong black woman this time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Deputy Grayson has pleaded not guilty to three counts of first degree murder and remains in jail for the crime. The head of the U.S. Secret Service has managed to bring unity to Republicans and Democrats with members of both parties demanding her resignation of a security failures which led to the attempted assassination of Donald Trump.
 
During an appearance before the House Oversight Committee on Capitol Hill, Kimberly Cheatle left lawmakers outrage by stonewalling questions about the shooting at a Trump rally earlier this month. She admitted the incident was a colossal failure. She took full responsibility but then in the same breath refused to step down. CNN's Paula Reid has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REP. MELANIE STANSBURY (D-NM): Madam Director with all due respect. The answers that we've received here in this hearing today are completely unsatisfactory
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Republican and Democratic members of Congress frustrated with the head of the Secret Service, many calling for her immediate resignation. 
 
REP. JAMES COMER (R-KY): It is my firm belief director Cheatle that you should resign. 
 
REP. JAMES RASKIN (R-MD): The director has lost the confidence of Congress at a very urgent and tender moment in the history of the country. And we need to very quickly move beyond this.
 
REID (voice-over): There are still a lot of unanswered questions after a horrific assassination attempt on former President Donald Trump nine days ago.
 
KIMBERLY CHEATLE, U.S. SECRET SERVICE DIRECTOR: As a director of the United States Secret Service, I take full responsibility for any security lapse of our agency.
 
REID (voice-over): Kimberly Cheatle facing bipartisan theory over her agency's failures. 
 
REP. NANCY MACE (R-SC): Have you provided all audio and video recordings in your possession to this committee? As we asked on July 15, yes or no?
 
CHEATLE: I would have to get back to you --
 
MACE: That is a no. You're full of shit today. You're just being completely dishonest. REID (voice-over): Both Republicans and Democrats growing frustrated
 
 with Cheatle's lack of forthcoming information, as she repeatedly stonewalled lawmakers deferring to the ongoing FBI investigation.
 
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZZ (D-NY): It has been 10 days since an assassination attempt on a former president of the United States, regardless of party. There needs to be answers.
 
REID (voice-over): Cheatle acknowledged that Secret Service was told about a suspicious individual several times before the shooting. 
 
REP. ANDY BIGGS (R-AZ): Why didn't they put a security hold on President Trump going on stage at that rally?
 
CHEATLE: At a number of our protective sites, there are suspicious individuals that are identified all the time. That doesn't necessarily mean that they constitute a threat. 
 
REID (voice-over): She pledged to complete an internal investigation of the incident within 60 days and defended her position.
 <br>[01:25:06]
 
REP. VIRGINIA FOXX (R-NC): You think you are the best person in the country to hit the Secret Service.
 
CHEATLE: I think that I am the best person to lead the Secret Service at this time. 
 
REID: Cheatle told lawmakers there have been adjustments made to security for other protect days after the Trump assassination attempts. And on Sunday after Joe Biden dropped out of the presidential race, this service adjusted security for a Vice President Kamala Harris, and she said that they stand ready to provide whatever adjustments they need to security for whoever she ultimately chooses as her running mate. Paula Reid, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: To Palm Springs, California now and Bobby Chacon, retired FBI special agent, it's good to see you.
 
BOBBY CHACON, RETIRED FBI SPECIAL AGENT: Good to see you, John.
 
VAUSE: So this appearance before the House Oversight Committee was so bad, both Republicans and Democrats want the director of the Secret Service to stand down. Here's Congressman Jamie Raskin.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RASKIN: The director has lost the confidence of Congress at a very urgent and tender moment in the history of the country. And we need to very quickly move beyond this.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) VAUSE: That seems to be the rub here. Director Cheatle didn't really inspire a lot of confidence in the Secret Service in the midst of what is a very heated presidential campaign, yet another misstep by the Secret Service.
 
CHACON: Yes, that was one of them all kinds of comments that were made today, it was shocking. I can't recall in recent memory, a witness before Congress getting such a bipartisan beating in that the criticism, the harsh criticism unwarranted came from both sides of the political aisle. It's hard to remember. Because usually, in these cases, one party or another comes to the aid or the defense of the witness. And there was nobody, there were no friends out there for her today.
 
VAUSE: So should she resign as both sides of politics are calling for?
 
CHACON: Well, I think her job is she needs to be replaced, I think. But unfortunately, I don't think this is probably -- I'm probably going against the majority here. But I don't think that she should be replaced right now, because of the fact that this investigation needs to be done with her at the top. She was there when it all happened. She's responsible. 
 
And I think and I'm fearful that if you replace her now, it would be harder to call her back as a private citizen. She would get a lawyer, she would maybe take the Fifth Amendment, you know, plead the Fifth Amendment. And I'm afraid that it would kind of slow down everything. By keeping her in place now, she can be called back to Congress, even though she had to be subpoenaed to do so. As the head of the agency, she could be called back more easily. 
 
And then when investigation is done, then an evaluation can take place. And you know, at that point, she should probably be replaced. 
 
VAUSE: Director Cheatle had to wait a week to gather the information as well by members of the Oversight Committee. She seems to simply ignore that request. She also refused to answer questions a lot. Why not throw the committee a bone some non-sensitive information? Isn't that how this game is played?
 
CHACON: Yes, it often is. And I was actually watching and waiting for that to happen. Normally, when you could tell many of the committee members were upset because in advance of a testimony like this, it's often requested for certain documents and certain evidence that the agency might have to be forwarded to the committee so that they can formulate some better questions. 
 
In this case, the Secret Service apparently ignored all those requests provided nothing. Zero to the committee members and that clearly inflamed them. But in my view, she would have been better served bringing something along to give them some even if it's not crucial, just something to at least say here's what we're doing his here's, where we're at, instead of the stonewalling, which she clearly was doing. 
 
VAUSE: But then there are questions which often happen like these. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): You knew that everyone knew the people there knew that there was a danger, they knew there was a threat to President Trump, and it was allowed to happen. Was there a stand down order, Ms. Cheatle? Was there a conspiracy to kill President Trump?
 
CHEATLE: Absolutely not.
 
GREENE: Then how did this happen? And why are you still sitting here not turning in your letter of resignation?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: There's no such thing as a stupid question they say but you know, the House Oversight Committee. It's not really the venue to reveal a plot to kill a former president. I want you to take one more moment. Here it is. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACE: Both sides of the aisle today have asked for your resignation. Would you like to use my five minutes to draft your resignation letter yes or no? 
 
CHEATLE: No, thank you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: What seems typical here is where do you draw the line between what was essentially genuine outrage and concern and what was essentially kabuki theater by Congress playing for -- playing up for the cameras.
 <br>[01:29:45] 
 
CHACON: Sure. And we see that almost in every committee hearing, right. So in this case, the Republicans were kind of trying to push or some of them at least, were trying to push some kind of conspiracy theory while the Democrats were trying to push in somewhat -- some of them -- a gun-control agenda.
 
They both kind of backed off. It wasn't a lot of them. But each side had those moments and you know, usually they are very non-productive in these kind of things. To get at the point we need to get at, we need to find out how this happened.
 
As far as why it was done, how it was done, that's the FBI's investigation. The Secret Service investigation really needs to look at their security lapses and what that led to this. The how of it and the why of it and the shooter's role in it is going to be the purview of the FBI's investigation that's ongoing. 
 
VAUSE: Bobby Chacon, it's always good to see you. Thanks for being with us. 
 
CHACON: Great, John. Thanks for having me. Good to see you again.
 
VAUSE: Thanks, mate.
 
Well, the money is flowing into the Harris campaign. Democrats are falling in line, but can she defeat Donald Trump? A closer look at the latest polls when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back everyone. I'm John Vause. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden is scheduled to return to the White House after almost a week of self-isolating due to COVID with his vice president taking over the presidential campaign, holding a campaign event in the key state of Wisconsin.
 
According to a CNN estimate, Kamala Harris has support from enough Democrat delegates to secure the party's presidential nomination. While the endorsements are non-binding, no other serious Democratic presidential challenger has come forward. Harris is expected to be confirmed as the nominee by August 7. 
 
But the question remains, is replacing Biden with Harris a net gain can the vice president win back disgruntled Democrats like young voters angry over the war in Gaza or not losing blue collar and white male voters loyal to Biden? 
 
CNN's Harry Enten has the numbers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Now, Kamala Harris looks to be in. The big question is can she secure the Democratic nomination and then go on to beat Donald Trump in the fall?
 
Let's take a look at the numbers to find out. 
 
Let's start off first with the Democratic nomination. Turns out that 76 percent of Democrats nationwide say they'd be satisfied if Harris gets the nomination. So it looks like she's the likely Democratic nominee. 
 
Beyond the voters, Harris also has picked up a lion's share of endorsements so far. And it turns out that when it comes to presidential nominations, the person who gets at least 50 percent in the endorsements normally goes on to win their party's nomination. 
 
Well, let's put aside the primary for a second and let's talk about the general election. Can Kamala Harris beat Donald Trump? 
 <br>[01:34:51]
 
ENTEN: Well, when looking at a national polling average from 2024, she can't do any worse than Joe Biden who led on zero days during the calendar year against the former president. 
 
And indeed, when we look at the net favorability ratings -- that is favorable minus unfavorable -- in a poll taken by ABC News/Ipsos after the Republican National Convention, we see that while Harris isn't exactly beloved, she comes in with a net favorability rating of minus 11 points. 
 
That was actually tied with Donald Trump, both of whom did considerably better than Joe Biden who came in with a net favorability rating of, get this, minus 23 percentage points. 
 
Of course, elections ultimately are won in the key battleground states. And while we don't have any polling post-Republican National Convention from them, we do know that in pre-Republican National Convention polling, Harris seemed to be doing slightly better than Joe Biden. She was down just one point with Trump in the battleground state of Pennsylvania. Well within the margin of error.
 
While Biden did somewhat worse being down three points of Donald Trump in the same New York Times/Siena College poll.
 
That may not seem like a big difference, but remember, elections in this country are determined by the slimmest of margins. 
 
Harris may also be able to put back in place some states that Joe Biden didn't seem particularly competitive in this time around. I'm talking about states like Arizona, Georgia, and Nevada, states that tend to have younger and more diverse populations.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: CNN's Harry Enten there with that analysis and thank him for that. 
 
Now, British pop singer, Charli XCX has called Kamala Harris a "brat" in social media. Apparently it's a compliment.
 
(MUSIC) 
 
VAUSE: The singer's popular new album "Brat" has taken off on TikTok. It's now being used to show approval for the presumptive Democratic nominee.
 
Charli XCX seemingly endorsed Harris with this rather simple tweet. 
 
And Harris is leaning in, adopting the font and look of the "Brat" album cover on her presidential campaign page on X, formerly known as Twitter, making a clear pitch to the young people on social media.
 
The search for a running mate for Harris is now underway in earnest. Sources tell CNN potential running mates are being vetted and they all have one thing in common.
 
Brian Todd has Details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: If Kamala Harris is the Democratic nominee, she has what many regard as a deep bench to choose from for a running mate.
 
EDWARD-ISAAC DOVERE, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL REPORTER: Now Kamala Harris, it seems like, will have a lot of options to choose from as she tries to figure out what kind of balance she wants to put out, what kind of additional arguments she wants on the ticket. 
 
CNN's Jeff Zeleny citing people familiar with the process reports Democratic lawyers are vetting potential vice-presidential hopefuls. And that Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro, North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper, and Arizona Senator Mark Kelly are among Democrats who've been asked to submit financial information and other personal detail.
 
GOV. JOSH SHAPIRO (D-PA): I'm not going to engage in hypotheticals. This is a deeply personal decision. 
 
TODD: The 51-year-old Shapiro has high approval ratings in Pennsylvania and simply benefits from being from that crucial swing state. 
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: He's very popular, he's very skilled. And maybe most importantly, Pennsylvania is a state that Democrats almost certainly can't win without.
 
TODD: Cooper from North Carolina is also popular, analysts say, in a state that the Democrats try to win, but rarely do, especially in important national races. 
 
He praised Harris on Monday on MSNBC.
 
GOV. ROY COOPER (D-NC): She's going to bring that excitement to the people that we need to bring to the polls. The young people, women, suburban women.
 
TODD: Kelly, a military veteran and former astronaut, rose to prominence when his wife former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, survived an assassination attempt.
 
SENATOR MARK KELLY (D-AZ): Really nice day here in Washington. 
 
TODD: He's well-regarded nationally, but also occupies a senate seat in Arizona that the Democrats might have trouble holding onto in 2026 if he were to become vice president. 
 
DOVERE: He has won in a state that Democrats want to keep winning in. He makes it maybe a little hard for people to think that they should take him out of that seat.
 
Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear, a youthful 46 years old, has also been floated as a potential running mate for Harris.
 
On MSNBC, he touted his ability to win multiple elections in a deep red state. 
 
GOV. ANDY BESHEAR (D-KY): I was reelected by about percentage points being a Democrat in Kentucky, that's like 30 anywhere else.
 
TODD: Whoever Kamala Harris picks will obviously have to be adept at debating J.D. Vance, but analyst Edward-Isaac Dovere says, we shouldn't focus too much attention on that because he believes Kamala Harris will likely want her running mate to make this race as much about Donald Trump as possible. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN -- Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Well, the global stock market seemed to have had a positive reaction to President Biden stepping out of the 2024 race and endorsing Kamala Harris. 
 <br>[01:39:47]
 
VAUSE: European stocks rose. The U.S. market made solid gains Monday. The S&amp;P 500 closed up more than 1 percent. The Nasdaq jumped 1.6 percent. 
 
One expert says Biden's endorsement of Harris prevented a possible market spiral by reducing uncertainty about the race. The market does not like uncertainty.
 
The E.U. is moving its next high-level meetings out of Budapest in protest over the outgoing prime minister's stance on the war in Ukraine. Viktor Orban recently angered E.U. leaders by claiming the union was a pro-war policy.
 
The informal E.U. council meetings of foreign and defense ministers were set to take place in Budapest late next month as Hungary currently holds the rotating E.U. presidency.
 
He also upset E.U. lawmakers (INAUDIBLE) -- upset E.U. lawmakers with his recent so-called peace missions where he met with Vladimir Putin in Moscow, Xi Jinping in Beijing and Donald Trump in Florida.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSEP BORRELL, EUROPEAN UNION HIGH REPRESENTATIVE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND SECURITY POLICY: I understood that we have to send a signal, even if it is a symbolic signal as being against the prime policy of the European Union and disqualifying the policy European Union as the party of war (ph) has to have some consequences.
 
Well, former consequences, symbolic consequences.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Young women and girls around the world tell CNN they often face dangerous or harmful situations online but they have ideas on how to make the Internet a safer place and we'll share some of those in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) VAUSE: Hundreds of young women and girls across three continents, some as young as 13 years old have told CNN they face harm online every month. 
 
More than 600 took part in a survey by "CNN As equals" and the global NGO Plan International about how their gender affects their experiences online. 
 
Many say they regularly suffer harm on social media platforms or other online spaces. From discrimination, hate speech, bullying, unwanted sexual images or videos. And overwhelmingly they say the companies which own those platforms must do more to try and keep them safe.
 
CNN's Kristie Lu Stout live for us again this hour from Hong Kong.
 
So you know, what are the dangers they're actually facing here.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, quite a number of dangers, you know, from exposure to unwanted sexual images, to harassment, discrimination. 
 
And the headline is as follows, "Gendered online abuse continues at a global scale despite calls and pledges for action." This is according to a new exclusive study by "CNN As Equals" and Plan International. They surveyed more than 600 young women and girls from the age of 13 to 24 in South America, in Africa, in Asia, across nine countries, including here in Asia in Nepal and the Philippines.
 
And let's bring you some of the findings. According to this survey 75 percent of those surveyed have faced harm online with more than one in ten experiencing it daily or almost daily. 
 <br>[01:44:52]
 
STOUT: And again, these are girls -- girls some as young as 13 and almost half of them say that they have received unwanted sexual images or videos and a quarter have faced discrimination or hate speech online. 
 
And as a result, you can imagine a third of these women and girls say that they feel depressed, they feel stressed and anxious as well, John. 
 
VAUSE: So they say they're under threat online and we also -- part of the survey was what do they want done so they can have a safe future. 
 
So what do they want done? 
 
STOUT: Yes. That's right. 
 
What they want is they want change and the majority of them are asking for digital literacy, in particular. In fact, 61 (ph) percent are calling for digital literacy, education programs, awareness programs for digital safety. 
 
And they say that the burden should not be on the girls to protect themselves but on the platforms. 
 
I want to show you one response from participant in the Philippines. Her name is Reyna and she shared this. She said "Those who provide digital literacy lessons should be the companies that make the apps. They are responsible for what can happen to us or what we can encounter."
 
And experts point out that the world's top social platforms, they need to do more, you know. And earlier this year, these platforms, including Meta, the big one, this is the parent company of Facebook, WhatsApp, and Instagram. They did announce new restrictions on teen users. Meta says it is working with experts, including Plan International to better protect young women and girls.
 
And we did hear from Cindy Southworth (ph), who is -- who works with Meta and she's the head of women's safety there. She says that what they do builds on years of developing tools, features, and policies to help keep them safe.
 
TikTok, we reached out to them, they did not provide comment. A spokesperson shared that it prevents users under age 18 from seeing sexually suggestive content, it also makes under 16 accounts private. 
 
But experts warn that online abuse is spiraling and these platforms -- these platforms that are very powerful, they are failing to stay ahead of this problem. 
 
And John, just want to encourage our viewers out there. They can find the full study and the story online at CNN.com/AsEquals, John.
 
VAUSE: Just very quickly before you go, we've known about this problem, especially on Instagram for young girls for a very, very long time the harm that it can do. Clearly, it's not getting fixed. It's getting worse. 
 
So you know, until there is some kind of real progress here, What's the advice for women and girls to deal with, you know, online harm and abuse. 
 
STOUT: Yes, and you know, being targeted is awful. You know, it's happened to me, especially when I was younger. It's a very alienating experience. It's a distressing experience.
 
Young women and girls should know, first off, you're not alone. You should ask for help from people who you trust. Or if things escalate and you need that help, don't be afraid and contact a mental health professional. 
 
And this is important if you are physically at risk, contact security, contact the police, and there's also a list of organizations that can support victims. You can find it through the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative. 
 
More information is online. Again, at CNN.com/AsEquals. Thank you, John. 
 
VAUSE: Yes. That's a really good point, Kristie because you feel very isolated at times. Speak out, get help.
 
STOUT: Yes.
 
VAUSE: Kristie, thanks. Thanks so much. Well, the research conducted with Plan International, part of "Systems Error" (ph), a series by "CNN As Equals", which investigates how gender shapes someone's online life.
 
Read more at CNN.com/AsEquals as Kristie mentioned. (INAUDIBLE)
 
Now, Delta Airlines canceled almost a thousand Monday. The Atlanta- based carrier is struggling to recover after a global tech outage four days ago which threw air travel into chaos.
 
Over the weekend, thousands of flights around the world were grounded, thousands more delayed, leaving passengers stranded and struggling to find a way home. 
 
The outage was caused by a faulty update from cyber security provider CrowdStrike. For Delta, the glitch has shut down the crew scheduling software, which they say will take days before it's fixed. 
 
And amid all of this chaos, the U.S. government and security professionals have warned hackers are setting up fake Web sites, which appear to offer information about the worldwide IT meltdown. 
 
But in reality, those Web sites are used to lure (INAUDIBLE) users in to spread malicious software. CrowdStrike has issued its own guidance. Officials are warning people to only follow instructions from legitimate sources.
 
When we come back, securing Paris. With the biggest sporting gathering in the world just days away, a look at the massive security operations around the city.
 <br>[01:49:22]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Just days before the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games, France remains on its highest terror alert. Parts of Paris are on lockdown. All part of a massive security operation for an unprecedented security challenge.
 
CNN's Melissa Bell has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Paris is taking no chances. Hopes of a spectacular Olympics stopped by fears of the worst.
 
Part of the problem for French authorities is the sheer ambition that lies at the heart of these games. 
 
For the very first time, an Olympic opening ceremony is going to happen not inside a stadium but actually through the very city on its main artery on the Seine River itself.
 
Despite a terror threat in France that's still at its highest level some 320,000 people are expected to line the banks of the river over six kilometers to watch, the biggest crowd ever to attend such an event in person. 
 
GEN. ERIC CHASBEOUF, OLYMPIC GAMES MILITARY FORCE. We'll have more than 10,000 soldiers, more than 35,000 policemen. It will be completely secure.
 
BELL: Street patrols leave regularly from the largest military camp erected in France since the end of World War II. 
 
And beyond the terror threat, there are also fears linked to crime, social unrest, and cyberattacks.
 
NICOLAS NORMAN, PARIS DEPUTY MAYOR FOR SECURITY: There are lots of exercises, crises simulations, sometimes quite extraordinary events where everyone during an entire day tries to anticipate and then to manage them. And so today, we're ready and we're calm.
 
BELL: The Olympic flame arrived in Paris to welcoming crowds, but nothing compared to what is to come. Officials say that some 10 to 15 million people are expected, far too many for human eyes only to watch so A.I. has been brought in to help monitor CCTV.
 
MATTHIAS HOUILLIER, CO-FOUNDER, WINTICS: They need to detect abnormal situations like, for example, when there is intrusion of people on railways, when there is unattended item that could be suspicious package, et cetera.
 
We detect them and then the operator gets notified in real-time so that he can decide what should be done. 
 
BELL: An unprecedented security operation made up of police, military, foreign forces and even A.I. startups that officials hope has made Paris ready for anything.
 
Melissa Bell, CNN -- Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Three-time Olympian Lebron James will be team U.S.A.'s male flag bearer. Organizers announced Monday they've chosen the four-time NBA champion to represent the U.S. at the opening ceremony. 
 
Team U.S.A. posted a video showing the moment the basketball superstar found out he'd been selected.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: on behalf of the entire men's Olympic basketball team. We would like to nominate Lebron James to be the flag bear for all of Team U.S.A. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You got that honor. So you get to wave the flag in Paris, my man.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: James will be the first male basketball player to carry the flag for the United States. 
 
Well, one of the toughest opponents of the Olympians could be the heat. CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam looks at how they're preparing for climate crisis. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: The Olympics are about to kick off in Europe's most vulnerable city to heat. Extreme weather fueled by increasing temperatures may be one of the event organizers' toughest challenges.
 
While rain could postpone the events, heat waves threaten spectators and athletes in the city. 
 
This device detects heat using infrared. The yellows are the hottest, the purples are the coolest, something meteorologists will be watching closely.
 
CNN spoke exclusively with a meteorologist responsible for monitoring incoming severe weather and advising the Olympic committee on potential impacts. 
 <br>[01:54:48]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So we have something I can show you here. We have really hot summers that we never had before the 21st century in Paris.
 
VAN DAM: This year's games will take place around the same period of the year as France's most lethal heat wave in 2003. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was the worst event that we had in France overall and especially in Paris. Paris is vulnerable because we have very big urban heat effect.
 
VAN DAM: Because Paris is such a densely-populated city, heat is amplified by various surfaces like asphalt, concrete, and even buildings.
 
While Olympic athletes strive to break records, our own planet is breaking records too, as 2023 was earth's hottest year ever with 2024 on track to be even warmer.
 
And what I see is a concerning trend of more frequent extreme heat. And longer lasting heat.
 
Well, extreme heat is just one element monitored here. Forecasters from Meteo France will use an arsenal of tools to warn of any incoming severe weather. 
 
ALEXIS DECALONNE, HEAD, METEO-FRANCE SPORTS: It's like rain detection at street level. 
 
VAN DAM: This little-known device could determine whether or not an Olympic event is postponed or canceled. It is the mobile radar that measures rain in real time. So Meteo France forecasters can advise the Olympic Committee.
 
DECALONNE: If the threshold for a given sports is exceeded, postponement or calendar adaptation or even worst, cancellation could happen. 
 
VAN DAM: Heavy rain already postponed an opening ceremony rehearsal on the Seine as the river was flowing too quickly.
 
The last time Paris hosted the Olympics in 1924, the French capital was 5.5 degrees cooler than it is today, helping fuel the climate with more extreme weather. 2024 is certainly on track to rewrite both the climate and Olympic history books.
 
Derek Van Dam, CNN -- Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: There you are, everything you wanted to know about the weather in Paris but are too afraid to ask.
 
Thank you for watching. I'm John Vause. 
 
CNN NEWSROOM continues with Rosemary Church after a very short break. See you tomorrow.
 <br>[01:56:58]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)