Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: EU, Cyprus say they will Open Maritime Aid Corridor to Gaza; Trump to Host Hungarian Far-Right Leader at Florida Estate; Malaysia May Renew Search 10 Years after MH370 Disappeared; Michigan School Shooter's Father on Trial for Manslaughter; U.S. Added 275,000 Jobs in February; McLaren Boss Seeks Transparency over Horner Probe. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired March 08, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: The U.S. President in his State of the Union address announced a plan to try to help civilians in 
 
 Gaza, how the world is mobilizing to facilitate these new routes over water. It is 9 am in Washington. It's 4 pm in Gaza. It is 6 pm here in Abu 
 
 Dhabi. I'm Becky and this is "Connect the World".
 
Also happening, this Friday presidential candidate Donald Trump in Florida welcoming Hungary's Prime Minister whom he praises as a strong man. 
 
 Families in Uvalde, Texas angry over police after police are cleared of wrongdoing in the mass shooting that continued for hours on elementary 
 
 schools in 2022.
 
That even as the question of responsibility in another school shooting looms large in a Michigan courtroom. Trial against the mass shooters father 
 
 resumes this hour. And the U.S. government versus TikTok, how a new bill could limit where you see that app.
 
And the stock markets in New York will open in about 30 minutes time fresh off the latest U.S. jobs report a strong headline number 275,000 jobs 
 
 created in February if the futures markets are any indication, the markets look as if they are will be flat to slightly higher. We start as Israel's 
 
 closest ally says humanitarian assistance for Gaza cannot be treated as a bargaining chip.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden had strong remarks about what he called the gut wrenching crisis in the Enclave during his State of the Union address on 
 
 Thursday night, and he gave details of the newest plans for getting critical aid into Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Tonight, I'm directing the U.S. military to lead and merge the mission to establish a 
 
 temporary pier in the Mediterranean on the coast of Gaza. I can receive large shipments, kind of food, water, medicine and temporary shelters. No 
 
 U.S. boots will be on the ground.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well the temporary move is designed to complement an international plan to start aid deliveries by sea from Cyprus. Now the 
 
 Cypriot President stressing today, Gaza needs as many paths open as possible.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKOS CHRISTODOULIDES, CYPRIOT PRESIDENT: The Cyprus maritime corridor aims at scaling debate by complementing other routes that includes the all-
 
 important Rafah crossing points from Egypt and their drops from -- It is also clear that we are at the point where we simply have to unlock all 
 
 possible routes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: All this of course, underscoring the extreme urgency of Gaza's appalling humanitarian crisis. Jeremy Diamond, joining us from Israel a 
 
 crisis, that is ongoing, free fall into famine, at this point, Jeremy.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, certainly. I mean, we are watching these images on the ground as people grow more and more desperate, simply 
 
 not enough aid getting into Northern Gaza. And we are also seeing as the efforts that are underway right now, like these air drops.
 
The reasons why these were last resorts, we're already getting reports that today, multiple air drops, killed several people injured others as well. It 
 
 appears to be some kind of a fault in the delivery mechanism there. But this is the very reason why these air drops were viewed as a last resort to 
 
 end.
 
So what we're seeing from President Biden and from these multiple European countries who are going to facilitate this maritime humanitarian corridor 
 
 of aid, these are efforts that are going to take weeks to actually stand up if not months, and are not responses to or will not actually address the 
 
 immediate situation.
 
But nonetheless, they are important and they do underscore the urgency of the situation. As you said, the United States is set to build a temporary 
 
 pier off the coast of Gaza in the Mediterranean Sea that when it is up and running could provide hundreds of additional truckloads per day of aid.
 
The aid will initially arrive at a port in Cyprus, where we'll be undergoing Israeli security inspections before arriving at that temporary 
 
 port.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
But as these European officials are underscoring this will be a very complex operation and it certainly doesn't replace the need for more aid to 
 
 be getting into Gaza by land. And that's why President Biden last night also underscored the urgency of Israel to quote do its part and to allow 
 
 more aid to Gaza.
 
He said that Israeli officials had committed to opening up an additional crossing point directly from Israel into the northern part of the Gaza 
 
 Strip, something that humanitarian aid officials have been calling for weeks now. We've yet to actually get confirmation directly from the 
 
 Israelis.
 
But that, of course, will be an essential step. But major questions still remain about security for those convoys, the effective deployment of that 
 
 aid. So much of that remains to be seen in the coming weeks, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Right. And the Israeli response to what is being termed the Cypriot initiative there see the UK, the EU, the U.S., the UAE, where I am? 
 
 The response is the following the Cypriot initiative will allow the increase of humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip, after security checks are 
 
 carried out in accordance with Israeli standards. Can you just explain for our viewers how you or we should read that?
 
DIAMOND: Well, Israeli officials, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs, have actually been talking about the idea of this maritime 
 
 corridor for months now. One of the main impediments to this is the fact that Gaza doesn't have a deep sea port. And that's where the U.S. stepping 
 
 in with this board is perhaps the thing that unlocked this initiative.
 
Israeli officials, for their part, though, are continuing to insist that they are not imposing restrictions on aid going into Gaza that they are 
 
 that there is sufficient humanitarian aid going in even denying altogether that there is a humanitarian crisis unfolding on the ground.
 
Of course, we know from accounts on the ground, from multiple humanitarian aid agencies from the United Nations that there is a crisis on the ground. 
 
 Right now that not enough aid is getting in, in fact, only a quarter of all planned U.N. aid missions into Northern Gaza were actually approved by the 
 
 Israeli military.
 
And that just gives you a sense of the struggles on the ground and the fact that it's clear that Israel could be doing more to allow more humanitarian 
 
 aid into Gaza. Certainly the pressure is mounting on them now to do just that, and perhaps it is unlocking some additional steps.
 
ANDERSON: Jeremy Diamond on the story. Thank you. Or fiery, forceful, political all words used to describe U.S. President Joe Biden, the State of 
 
 the Union address on Thursday night, a crucial opportunity for him to deflect widespread criticism that he's too old to run for reelection.
 
He uses speech to cover a wide range of contentious topics including the wars in Gaza and Ukraine, women's reproductive rights and Republican 
 
 dismissals of the January the 6th Insurrection. The president also took direct aim at Donald Trump without ever mentioning the name of his looming 
 
 November Challenger.
 
Instead, he criticized the man he called my predecessor for urging Republicans to torpedo a border security bill. Their own party helped craft 
 
 with many of the provisions they wanted, when some Republicans in attendance ignored the House Speaker's request to show decorum during the 
 
 speech. Mr. Biden was ready.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: Oh, you don't like that bill? That conservative got together and said it was a good bill. I'll be darned. That's amazing. You're saying oh, 
 
 look at the facts. I know. I know you know how to read.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Lauren Fox is in Washington for us. How did this speech go down from a domestic voter's perspective, Lauren?
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, I think a lot of Democrats who were in the audience last night, Becky. They were very 
 
 relieved that Biden delivered this speech with vigor that he was able to convey to the audience not just in that chamber.
 
But at home, that he has what it takes to campaign and to serve another four years as Senator Joe Manchin, a moderate, who has sometimes not always 
 
 see eye to eye with the president told me last night it really felt like Biden had more gas in the tank. I also talked to Democratic Congressman 
 
 Gerry Connolly before the speech.
 
And he told me he was nervous about how this delivery was going to go because there are so many Democrats who are worried about the president's 
 
 age. After the speech, Connolly said he did everything that the president needed to do and more or although Connolly cautioned, it really does matter 
 
 where it goes from here.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Can he continue to have had this kind of force on the campaign trail? Can he continue to pepper Republicans in this way on the campaign trail, but a 
 
 lot of Republicans were frustrated with that speech or arguing it felt like a campaign rally that he was using what is supposed to be an address to 
 
 unite the country to divide the chamber.
 
You played that moment there, where he did go after Republicans pointedly a few times, not just on immigration, not just on Ukraine aid and 
 
 reproductive health, but he also needled them about an infrastructure bill that some House Republicans have gone back to their districts and argued 
 
 that they got money for their districts, when in fact, they voted against the proposal, Joe Biden making a joke that, you know, if they don't like 
 
 the money, they could send it back to him.
 
Pete Buttigieg, his Transportation Secretary thought that was pretty funny and had a little giggle there. But you know one thing to just keep in mind 
 
 here is that Republicans had their own comeback, and a lot of Republicans were setting the table before this that they weren't going to like the 
 
 speech. Katie Britt gave the Republican address. She's a young Senator from Alabama. Here's what she said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. KATIE BRITT (R-AL): Right now, the American dream has turned into a nightmare for so many families. The true, unvarnished state of our union 
 
 begins and ends with this. Our families are hurting, our country can do better. President Biden's border policies are a disgrace. This crisis is 
 
 despicable. And the truth is it is almost entirely preventable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOX: Biden also argued that the border needed fixing but his argument last night at the State of the Union was that Republicans had an opportunity to 
 
 pass a bipartisan bill a hard fought negotiation between Chris Murphy, James Lankford, Kyrsten Sinema, and instead it did not get over the finish 
 
 line because of Republican opposition. He said that if Republicans want a solution, they have one and they can pass it, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Lauren Fox on the story for you, Lauren, good to have you. Donald Trump recently said it is nice to have a strong man running the country. 
 
 The country he was referring to was Hungary and that strongman is its Far- Right Prime Minister Viktor Orban. Will today Trump will get to show his admiration in person who's the Mr. Orban at his Mar-a-Lago home.
 
CNN's Kristen Holmes is in West Palm Beach in Florida. Mr. Orban was not invited to meet with President Biden on this visit. So should we read that 
 
 as a snub?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: There was no formal invitation from the White House, but also Viktor Orban did not reach out to 
 
 them. We did not ask for a formal invitation or a formal sit down now, Donald Trump's team senior adviser telling me that this is a social 
 
 meeting.
 
And if you're wondering what that means, it means that this is a casual and this is their words friendly meeting with no agenda. Now obviously, if you 
 
 are talking about someone like Viktor Orban and someone like Donald Trump and it is, hard, to believe that there is a meeting with no agenda, but 
 
 there is particular significance here.
 
You mentioned the fact that Donald Trump has routinely praised Viktor Orban. Well, it's a two way street. Viktor Orban has time after time 
 
 adopted some of Donald Trump's language, praised and at one point even said the war in Ukraine wouldn't have happened if Donald Trump was still in the 
 
 White House.
 
That might sound familiar to you, because that is something that the former president has said himself. Now this trip does mean something because it's 
 
 not just a former president, former president who is now the presumptive Republican nominee and could be president, again, when you look at that, it 
 
 gives you an idea of where Donald Trump is likely to align himself if he is voted back into the White House.
 
He has always had an affinity for authoritarian leaders, he has always praised them. As you noted, the actual full quote was this. It was some 
 
 people don't like him. This is from Trump, because he is too strong. But it's nice to have a strong man in control of the country. He likes that 
 
 kind of leadership.
 
And this kind of meeting here gives you an idea of how he would again align himself on a world stage if he was elected back to the White House. Now, we 
 
 don't expect any sort of pictures of them in terms of a video, but look to social media, we'll see if there's anything that presents itself as well as 
 
 a possible read up as what the two talked about, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Viktor Orban is a controversial figure. He is seen as Europe's closest ally to the Kremlin, to Vladimir Putin, to Russia. And is there a 
 
 sense that this will come into play during his talks with Donald Trump especially with regard Donald Trump's position on the war in Ukraine.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
HOLMES: Well it's certainly possible. Again, when I'm talking to Trump Senior Advisors, they are painting this as a friendly meeting with no 
 
 agenda, they're certainly not going to tell me ahead of time that there is a plan to talk about Vladimir Putin or the Kremlin, or the war in Ukraine.
 
However, they have both publicly said over and over again, that the war Ukraine wouldn't have happened if Donald Trump was still in office. It is a 
 
 common talking point for both of them. So the likelihood of it coming up seems pretty high. However, again, they are really trying to downplay this 
 
 as any sort of formal sit down between two leaders, Donald Trump, of course, not actually the leader of the country right now.
 
They are trying to paint this more as just two people who admire each other having a conversation. But Becky, we of course will be on this. We will be 
 
 talking to people who are in the room. We will be looking for that readout to see if this does in fact come out and if they share that with us, 
 
 because we are also at a point here where Donald Trump doesn't have to share anything.
 
He is not the President of the United States. He is not having a meeting in the White House that has certain restrictions and you meet with foreign 
 
 leaders, certain obligations that you have, this is technically a private citizen. So he doesn't have to share anything whether or not they do is 
 
 that it's possible, but we'll keep an eye out for that.
 
ANDERSON: Well, perhaps this is a meeting of the mutual appreciation society that's so where we will leave it. Kristen, thank you. Still to 
 
 come, families in Texas are furious after an investigated clears the police of any wrongdoing in the deadly school shooting in the City of Uvalde, more 
 
 on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: It's a sad day for families still seeking answers. 10 years after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared. Malaysia give me back my family 
 
 relatives shout outside the Malaysian Embassy in Beijing. Earlier this week, the Malaysian government said it may renew the search for the doomed 
 
 flight. And aviation experts tell CNN improved detection technology could help solve the decade old mystery. Anna Coren reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Somewhere in the depths of this vast, seemingly endless Indian Ocean is believed to be the resting place 
 
 for the 239 souls on board MH370, the Boeing airliner that vanished a decade ago. Multiple searches spending hundreds of thousands of square 
 
 kilometers found nothing. Dozens of pieces of floating and washed up debris the only evidence of the 777.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
The families and loved ones of those who made that fateful flight on the 8th of March 2014 from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, it has been an agonizing 10 
 
 years. At a memorial in Malaysia, time has not eased their anguish and pain.
 
SARAH BAJC, PARTNER OF MH370 PASSENGER PHILIP WOOD: Families need closure. The world needs closure, and somebody needs to be held accountable.
 
COREN (voice-over): But Sarah Bajc hasn't spoken to the media for many years.
 
COREN: So lovely to meet you and --
 
COREN (voice-over): Her partner Philip was on board MH370. And the search for answers consumed her life as it did for so many others, who shared in 
 
 the collective anger, frustration and grief.
 
BAJC: waking up in the middle of the night and expecting him to be there. That still happened for a while. And maybe that's because of a lack of 
 
 closure.
 
COREN (voice-over): She believes closure only comes once MH370 is found and there is now renewed pressure from the families and a verbal commitment by 
 
 the Malaysian government to reactivate the search.
 
ANTHONY LOKE, MALAYSIAN TRANSPORT MINISTER: This is the biggest mystery of aviation in the whole world. And we must solve this mystery. It is a 
 
 commitment and a promise that the --
 
COREN (voice-over): Malaysia has agreed to speak to Ocean Infinity, the U.S. Marine robotics company that ended its last search in 2018. But world 
 
 renowned Aviation Expert Richard Godfrey believes they'd be looking in the wrong place again. Armed with new information from the latest technology, 
 
 he believes he knows the coordinates of the crash site and the area they need to search 1500 kilometers off the coast of Perth.
 
RICHARD GODFREY, AEROSPACE ENGINEER: I think it will only take one more search. Search technology has improved. The crash location has been more 
 
 narrowly defined. It will take them I think just a few weeks to find MH370.
 
COREN (voice-over): A bold statement yet one family's -- who lost his mother on MH370, has taken Malaysia Airlines to court on behalf of the 
 
 Chinese families that represent nearly two thirds of the victims. He says he knows his hard working mother who instilled the same ethos in him is 
 
 driving her son to find the truth.
 
I can find her shadow in me he says whatever I am doing now is what my mother wants me to do. As for Sarah, the trauma has forced her to rebuild 
 
 her life running an eco-tourism resort in Panama with her new husband. But she says on this day, her thoughts are always with Philip.
 
BAJC: I make my coffee exactly like Philip was drinking. And I sit and I think about him and maybe look at some pictures and then I put it away. You 
 
 know I don't think that you can effectively walk forward. You can't walk forward and positivity and confidence if you're always looking backwards.
 
COREN (voice-over): Anna Coren, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well in Texas family members of the Uvalde School shooting victims are in shock and they are furious once again. A report by an 
 
 independent investigators clear local police of any wrongdoing for their response to the mass shooting at Robb elementary school.
 
19 school children and two teachers were killed by a gunman in that 2022 massacre. Investigator presented his findings to a packed City Council 
 
 meeting on Thursday. Families are outraged by his report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FELICHA MARTINEZ, SON XAVIER KILLED IN UVALDE SHOOTING (ph): My son survived the 77 minutes fighting for his life. He was transferred by 
 
 ambulance to -- another -- hour. He was trying to come home to be with his dad, with his family. But he didn't make it. Help us get --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: You may recall it took 77 minutes for law enforcement to stop the killing even as children were calling 911 from inside pleading for help. 
 
 The result of the city's independent investigation is swirl of multiple probes into what other agencies have agreed was a botched police response 
 
 to the massacre.
 
CNN has reached out to the Uvalde County District Attorney for comment. Well now to another school shooting that we are following closely, a 
 
 Michigan father is on trial today facing charges for the deadly crime carried out by his son.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
Prosecutors say James Crumbley was grossly negligent and should not have allowed his son Ethan to have access to the weapon he used in a shooting at 
 
 his Michigan High School in 2021. Crumbley faces four involuntary manslaughter charges, one for each student that his son killed. 
 
Last month James's wife Jennifer was found guilty in a separate trial on the same charges. Well CNN's Jean Casarez is following the trial. Jean, 
 
 this trial like the one against James Crumbley's wife set to test the limits of who is responsible for a mass shooting, correct? 
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's exactly right because Ethan Crumbley alone somehow got that gun in the house. Ethan Crumbley alone went 
 
 to his high school, November 30th 2021 and he carried the gun in his backpack. And around noon time when all the kids are out walking the halls, 
 
 he comes out and he just starts shooting point blank range at some of them. It's just horrific what happened.
 
And this is the first case in the country mother and father both charged with homicide saying the judge saying the law saying prosecutors say that 
 
 there can be more than one cause of death. And maybe your son did it. But you know, what you're responsible to, because of what you did and what you 
 
 didn't do, how you stored that gun? 
 
Plus and here's the thing, you have to know that your son could commit harm to others of foreseeability. So there's a two prong approach there, you let 
 
 you keep the gun non-secured. But you also know that your son's got mental issues and he could harm somebody else. And that's the clincher right 
 
 there. Because the question is how much did James Crumbley know of his son's mental health? 
 
Because he would do it at night at home in his room, he would write in his journal and the parents never looked at that journal of what he was 
 
 plotting and what he was planning which then gives us another issue right? Do parents have a duty when they have a minor child to look at all of their 
 
 electronic devices, look at their journal, see exactly what they're writing? So the case is just about to start today but one thing that 
 
 happened yesterday and it's a mystery. All right, but I'll just very quickly in jail, there is no privacy in jail.
 
And the Sheriff's Department confirmed with us today that he's been making some threatening communications James Crumbley on his email and on 
 
 electronic devices. And so now the communications are curtailed it can only be his counsel. That's the only person he can have a conversation with 
 
 until this trial ends. 
 
ANDERSON: Fascinating. The trial continues, Jean good to have you.
 
CASAREZ: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Still to come. It is mega popular but it may be going away in the United States at least. We'll explain what could be in store for TikTok, 
 
 that's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, you are watching "Connect the World". The trading just started in the U.S. that is the state 
 
 of the markets they are mixed. But you see the NASDAQ on a somewhat more of a clip than the other two moving these markets today, the latest U.S. jobs 
 
 numbers for February.
 
U.S. employers added 275,000 jobs last month that surpassed expectations. Keep in mind in an election year there will always be a keen eye on data 
 
 like this, particularly these U.S. job numbers on whether or not this economy has the potential for growth or a slowdown. 
 
These jobs numbers have now for some time become an increasingly critical economic barometer. Well, I want to bring in CNN's Vanessa Yurkevich then 
 
 to walk us through. Vanessa if you will, what these numbers are telling us?
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: This is a strong number, this beat expectations but it's still in a nice sweet spot. 
 
 This is not something to be too concerned about. But it is a little bit more than what analysts expected they were expecting about 200,000 jobs 
 
 added in February 275, 275,000 is the number in this report. 
 
It also pushes the unemployment rate up to 3.9 percent is you have more people who are unemployed, more people looking for work right now. But 
 
 we're still below a 4 percent unemployment rate, something we have not seen really for this long since President Nixon was in office. 
 
Also the sectors that added jobs in February they're the sectors that we've seen consistent job growth, so you're talking about healthcare 67,000 jobs 
 
 added there, government 52,000. And actually food and that should be food and drinking is 42,000 jobs added. 
 
Also worth noting people keep an eye on wages. This report reveals wage growth, wage growth cooling on an annual basis to 4.3 percent. So for 
 
 everyday Americans they're thinking well wait a minute, I don't want to see less wages in my paycheck. But it's actually good news for the job of the 
 
 Federal Reserve who doesn't want to see wages outpacing inflation as much as it has been here in the U.S. 
 
The Federal Reserve wants to see wage growth annual rates growth at about 3.5 percent. So still a little ways to go in the Federal Reserve's mind. 
 
 But clearly, Americans are not going to be too happy about their wages going down on an annual basis. Also Becky just to mention last in January 
 
 rather we saw an eye popping jobs report here in the U.S. 
 
We saw 353,000 jobs added in January. That number actually has been revised down to 229,000. So January's number December's number which were over 
 
 300,000 jobs added here in the U.S. actually coming in 167,000 jobs added fewer than expected between the two months. So we are in a good trend right 
 
 now robust job growth over 200,000 not too concerning. 
 
This is something that President Biden is going to tout, it is something certainly that the Federal Reserve is going to be looking at closely as 
 
 they look to possibly entertain interest rate cuts this year, which would be further good news for Americans hoping to have people take out 
 
 mortgages, credit card loans, student loans.
 
So a very strong report, a good report, a Goldilocks report, some might say 275,000 jobs added in the month of February, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Those revisions to the ones before are quite significant. And so it was amazes me how off the mark they can be. Anyway good to have you 
 
 Vanessa, important stuff and the context and analysis is crucial, thank you.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
TikTok could be going away in the United States. That is because the U.S. House Committee has advanced a bill that could lead to a nationwide ban on 
 
 the super popular app. Super popular is probably an understatement if enacted. This measure will give the social media platform just five months 
 
 to divest from its parent company ByteDance which is linked to China. 
 
Lawmakers say they are concerned Americans personal data collected by TikTok could end up in the hands of the Chinese government. Well TikTok 
 
 pushing back saying a ban would strip 170 million Americans of their constitutional right to free expression and harm businesses. CNN's Brian 
 
 Fung joins me now live from Washington. What else is TikTok saying about this bill, Brian?
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: Well, Becky TikTok has launched a call to action campaign within its app targeting Americans who are aged 18 and 
 
 older saying you know; please call your members of Congress to oppose this bill. And many congressional officers have told us that they've received 
 
 you know, hundreds if not thousands of calls from TikTok users expressing that opinion. 
 
And you know, they've basically been overwhelmed by the response at TikTok. According to some of the lawmakers who are behind this legislation, they 
 
 say that this call to action campaign shows that China or the Chinese government you know, what the Chinese government can do when it puts its 
 
 mind to trying to influence the users of TikTok. 
 
But you know there are a lot of other concerns with this bill that civil society groups have raised including the First Amendment concerns that you 
 
 spoke about with regard to you know, Americans ability to access information. But then also the tech industry says there may be the First 
 
 Amendment rights of app stores. Because you know, app stores could be banned from hosting otherwise legal information in the form of TikTok.
 
And you know, the tech industry says this could be a real problem for this bill going forward. Now we know that this bill cleared the House Energy and 
 
 Commerce Committee unanimously last night and House leaders say that they plan to bring this bill to a floor vote as soon as next week. 
 
The White House meanwhile has said it supports this legislation and President Biden is prepared to sign it. But it's not clear whether or not 
 
 it has enough support in the Senate for to be able to send this bill to the president's desk. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: You are up-to-date folks. Brian, thank you. All right, your sports news coming up. And Red Bull has reportedly suspended the female 
 
 employee you accused Formula One team Principal Christian Horner of inappropriate behavior, more on that coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well the Japanese manga artist and creator of the popular Dragon Ball series is passed away at the age of 68. Akira Toriyama's death last 
 
 week was due to a brain condition according to his production studio. Dragon Ball was the story of an outer space boy with superhuman strength. 
 
 He was searching for seven dragon balls. The series began in the 1980s and was one of Japan's biggest hits around the world.
 
Toriyama's creative career spanned more than four decades. Well programming note for you starting Monday, CNN International will feature a new lineup 
 
 for the evening hours. If you are watching here in Abu Dhabi "Connect the World" will remain at 9 am Eastern if that's where you are seeing is. 
 
But because of the clock change we will be starting an hour earlier in the UAE, that's 5 P through 7 P, 11 pm in the evening in Abu Dhabi 3 P Eastern. 
 
 CNN Newsroom with Jim Sciutto will debut followed by "Quest Means Business" with my colleague Richard at 4 pm Eastern that is midnight in Abu Dhabi. 
 
Well, in the world of sports, the boss of Formula One team McLaren Zak Brown calling for greater transparency over Red Bulls investigation into 
 
 inappropriate behavior. Allegations made against the team's principal, Christian Horner. Look I want to bring in Amanda Davies here with "World 
 
 Sport". This Amanda is just the latest twist in what is a highly controversial story. Just explain if you will. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Controversial and murky with a lot of he said, she said, he said and lots of different people briefing from the 
 
 Formula One paddock. Christian Horner the Red Bull team principal has said he wants to draw a line and move on after he was cleared in the internal 
 
 investigation which Red Bulls overarching body carried out into these allegations of inappropriate behavior towards a female employee.
 
Horner has always denied any wrongdoing. He was ultimately cleared by the investigation. But it has now emerged that the female employee according to 
 
 reports herself has been suspended. And not surprisingly it is the talk of the paddock, despite the cars hitting the track for the second weekend of 
 
 racing. 
 
And all the talk is how much damage is this story doing to Formula One and its reputation? And I was catching up with the McLaren boss Zak Brown just 
 
 a few hours ago. He's given his take and what he would like to see happen next, that's coming up in "World Sport" Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah important stuff. That is after this short break. Amanda has got "World Sport". I'll be back top of the hour with the second hour of 
 
 "Connect the World" here on CNN, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END