Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Iran is Preparing an Attack on Israel; Blois Olson is Interviewed about Tim Walz. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired October 01, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00] 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: The way "Politico" puts it today is as follows. "Today is what could be the last big opportunity for either ticket to make an impression on a wide swathe of Americans." 
 
What do you think Tim Walz then needs to do tonight to be successful against J.D. Vance?
 
REP. ERIC SWALWELL (D-CA): Hammer home the cost of electing Donald Trump as president. 
 
First, Donald Trump is almost 80. He will be the oldest person to ever finish a presidential term. So, that means J.D. Vance could get the call. And J.D. Vance is the poster boy for Project 2025, which takes a wrecking ball so many freedoms. And really make sure people are clear that we can't have this guy as the person who gets the call.
 
But also to emphasize that Kamala Harris, you know, is the new way forward and that she's - she has middle class capitalism where an opportunity economy can come to all Americans if they want to buy a house because they work hard and they believe they should not just get by but do better. If we're going to invest in small businesses and gives small businesses a $50,000 deduction if they start a business and create jobs. 
 
So, it's a contrast of looking forward and looking back. But also again, Kate, reminding people, if J.D. Vance gets the call, this guy is going to be a real wrecking ball to your freedoms. 
 
BOLDUAN: That also begs the question, and some have been asking, do you think Tim Walz is best served focusing on J.D. Vance tonight, or focusing more on Donald Trump?
 
SWALWELL: We don't want to attack down. You know, again, we should remind people that J.D. Vance, again, if he's handed the ball, would be a disaster, particularly for women. And he's gone on the attack against women. But we want to attack the person who, for the last - for his four years, you know, as a president, saw the most jobs lost, you know, was fired from his job and then sent a violent mob to attack his office place. We want to remind people who that person is and then contrasted it with who will be a partner with Tim Walz as president, and that's Kamala Harris.
 
BOLDUAN: So, managing expectations is always the job of the campaign ahead of - ahead of any debate. I want to play for you what Jason Miller, of the Trump campaign, he is very good at staying on message and pushing the message of the campaign, what he told Kasie Hunt today, especially in contrast to what you just heard from Donald Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON MILLER, TRUMP CAMPAIGN SENIOR ADVISER: J.D. Vance has been in official office for two years, but Tim Walz has been in office for two decades. He's good. He was in Congress. He's in his second term as governor of the state of Minnesota. When he shows up and hits that stage, he's disciplined, he's on point, and he lies through his teeth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: Contrast that from what you heard was how Donald Trump is managing expectations and calling - in targeting and calling Tim Walz a moron. 
 
What do you say to that? Who do you think is the better debater among the two men that will be taking the stage tonight?
 
SWALWELL: Well, I mean, Tim Walz, you know, didn't go to Yale, you know, didn't work with Silicon Valley billionaires to make pitches, you know, for most of his career. He's a teacher. He's a football coach. He was a governor. And, of course, he served his country in the military. 
 
But this is really about, you know, Kamala Harris' vision for every American. And also, again, contrasting that with the Trump tax. Eighty percent of the goods at Walmart, by the way, Kate, are imported from outside the United States. Donald Trump would put a 60 percent tax on all of those goods. So that means four out of five of the items in your cart are going to have a 60 percent Trump tax. That's going to cost American families a lot of money in contrast with the opportunity economy that Kamala Harris is going to bring. That's what Tim Walz is going to hammer home tonight.
 
BOLDUAN: So, you - do you think Tim Walz is the better debater and will win the debate tonight?
 
SWALWELL: I think Tim Walz and Kamala Harris have a better vision for Americans. And that's going to come through.
 
BOLDUAN: I'm going to take that as a yes.
 
Congressman, thank you for coming on. 
 
SWALWELL: My pleasure. Thanks, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right, western North Carolina is dealing with just a mess. It's known for its beautiful mountains and it's the last place you'd think would be hit by a hurricane, but it is dealing with absolute disaster. We'll take a look at the shifting weather patterns of the climate crisis and why scenes like this might just be the new normal. That's ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:38:54]
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, we do have breaking news. Perhaps very important breaking news stemming from the tension, the conflict in the Middle East right now. Israel launched ground incursions into Lebanon overnight targeting Hezbollah, the terror group that operates inside Lebanon. We are getting a sense this morning that Hezbollah, which is a client of Iran, may be about to get assistance for Iran itself. 
 
I believe CNN's Arlette Saenz is ready at the White House for us. 
 
Arlette, the White House has new concerns about what Iran may be about to do. What are you learning? 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, John, a senior White House official is telling us that the U.S. believes that Iran may imminently launch a ballistic missile against Israel. I want to read you a quote that we have from a senior White House official who says, "the United States has indications that Iran is preparing to imminently launch a ballistic missile attack against Israel. We are actively supporting defensive preparations to defend Israel against this attack. A direct military attack from Iran against Israel will carry severe consequences for Iran."
 <br>[09:40:04]
 
Now, this comes as U.S. officials had had some concern that Iran might try to launch some type of a retaliatory they attack against Israel in the wake of Israel's killing of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah on Friday. The U.S. has been in close coordination with Israel over the past few days, particularly zeroing in on their joint defense efforts. And various statements from the Pentagon have made clear that the U.S. would be ready to protect the interests of U.S. personnel, as well as U.S. allies and partners, if Iran or any of its proxies were to  take steps to try to launch this type of attack against Israel. 
 
So, we will see what exactly the U.S. is preparing to do in this moment. The Pentagon has stressed that they have significant capabilities in the region, including a carrier strike group. The U.S. has also made moves to try to increase the force readiness posture in the region, to activate potentially if needed. But it does come as U.S. officials have been watching the situation with great concern and the possibility of an attack by Iran. 
 
Now, you'll remember that back in April the U.S. actually lead a multinational effort to try to defend Israel in the wake - or in anticipation of some attacks from Iran. So, we will see if there is a similar type of mobilization that goes into effect to try to intercept any type of missile that could be coming Israel's way. But this morning we are receiving word from a senior White House
 
 official that the U.S. is preparing for the possibility of an imminent ballistic missile attack by Iran against Israel at any time.
 
BERMAN: All right, standby for a second here just to give people a sense of geography about what we're talking about here. Israel, right here, launched these ground incursions into Lebanon overnight, focusing and targeting on Hezbollah. What we're concerned about now, the White House is, is not return fire from Hezbollah and Lebanon, but this turning into a more regional conflict. Iran launching ballistic missiles into Israel. 
 
Now, as Arlette noted, this did happen once before. There was this exchange, frankly, between Iran and Israel, where Israel launched into - where Iran launched into Israel, then the United States, with the Israelis, the Jordanians, the British were able to repel almost all of those launches. Israel retaliated. Again, that was seen a little bit as a show. Both Israel and Iran, while they were firing at each other, showed some restraint. 
 
Arlette, if you're still with me, any sense whether the United States has concern this time that what Iran will try to do here is perhaps a more intense strike or a strike with the intention to target Israeli cities, maybe even Tel Aviv?
 
SAENZ: It's not exactly clear what the U.S. is expecting in this moment. All that we know is that they are saying that they believe that Iran will be eminently planning an - a ballistic missile attack against Israel. Now, it does come as you have heard U.S. officials really across the board stress their belief that there needed to be some preparations for the possibility of an Iranian attack against Israel in the wake of the killing of Nasrallah. You have seen the Pentagon talk about some of the capabilities that they have on hand to potentially respond or deter any type of attack. But it has just come as U.S. officials have been watching this closely. They haven't detailed exactly what or where this Iranian missile attack might be heading. But it will be something that they will be trying to work with the Israelis to try to prevent if they can.
 
BERMAN: And to be clear, Arlette, the United States has had a presence in the region. You know, carrier fleets that have been operating both in the Mediterranean, that at times down here, or at times even in the Red Sea. There has been an effort by the Biden administration to position military assets in case something like this would happen, correct?
 
SAENZ: Yes, and that is something that the Pentagon has been stressing over the past two days. They've said that they have significant capabilities in the region, specifically pointing out that that they do have that carrier strike group. You also had - just yesterday they said that an unspecified number of troops from the U.S. had been preparing to potentially deploy if needed. So, this is something where the U.S. could try to utilize some of their defense capabilities to try to help Israel defend themselves in this moment. 
 
BERMAN: All right, Arlette, stand by as we get more information from the White House. 
 
I want to go back to Tel Aviv. CNN's chief national security analyst, Jim Sciutto, is with us now.
 
And, Jim, the breaking news, new reporting that the White House has intelligence that Iran could be preparing a ballistic missile strike on Israel. The significance of that and what it means for the place that you're standing right now? 
 <br>[09:45:01]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Listen, its enormously significant. This is just the outcome. A direct conflict between Iran and Israel that, frankly, President Biden and other U.S. officials had been hoping to avoid. It's not unprecedented. Of course you'll remember that in April Iran launched dozens of missiles and drones towards Israel, which, we should note, the vast majority of which were shot down, not just by Israel, but by U.S. forces, as well as other partners in the region, including Jordan. 
 
So, we have been here before. But for this to happen in the midst of what has become a multi-front war for Israel now, not just in Gaza, of course you now have Israeli boots on the ground in southern Lebanon, and you had a strike just in the last couple of days by Israel, 1,500 miles away against Houthi rebels in Yemen as well, to add another front to that is really - it's - it's extremely volatile. It's dangerous. And, of course, why I'm standing here would be a likely target. 
 
Now, we should note that Tel Aviv has its own formidable missile defenses at several levels. Of course, you talk about the Iron Dome, but you also have ones at higher altitudes intended for ballistic missiles, including what's known as David's Sling. So, they have capabilities to defend, but the risk, the danger, the fear, John, is that Iran might attempt to overwhelm those defenses by firing a large number of missiles at the same time so that Israel could not shoot them all down, or Israel and its allies. 
 
It's a significant - it would be a significant escalation. And I think it's notable for the White House to say this so publicly right now.
 
BERMAN: So, Jim, obviously this is in response to what's happening inside Lebanon. Israel, of course, has conducted all these operations against Hezbollah leaders there over the last few weeks, ground incursions overnight. Hezbollah is a client of Iran. 
 
You have done significant reporting, not just in Israel where you are right now, but also here in Iran. What pressures do you think the new Iranian leadership is facing to respond to what's happening in Lebanon?
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. Listen, you know, these proxy fighters, when you talk of Hezbollah, Hamas, the Houthi rebels, these were built deliberately by Iran over many years to be means of projecting force in the region and targeting Israel. With these most recent attacks against Hezbollah, Israel has
 
 significantly depleted, it hasn't eliminated, but it's significantly depleted, at least for now, not just the leadership of Hezbollah, but it seems some of its firing capability. So, that is a blow to Iran's influence. And - and this has been exactly the fear, including of U.S. officials, that as Israel escalates inside Lebanon against Hezbollah, that Iran might escalate as well and feel that to demonstrate its power, it needs - it needs to strike back. 
 
I mean you have this - it's such a familiar - it's such a familiar game here. I mean game is not a great word for it, but - but it's - it's a constant, you know, testing of red lines. One side fires. The other has to reestablish deterrence, as does the other. And you find yourself in an escalation ladder, which is exactly the outcome that so many in this region had been worried about. 
 
BERMAN: Yes, and the question is, how much higher on that ladder will it all go? 
 
Jim Sciutto, in Tel Aviv, the breaking news, CNN learning from the White House that it believes that Iran preparing a ballistic missile strike against Israel. Obviously, we'll stay on top of this.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: And it's these major issues, just like this, that could now also become major issues for the big debate tonight. We are hours away from the one and only vice presidential debate between Tim Walz and J.D. Vance getting ready in the final hours of preparation before they walk onto that debate stage to face off. And we have new details. 
 
Also, potentially the most disruptive strike to hit the United States in decades. It set in overnight. And ports along the East Coast and Gulf Coast are effectively paralyzed today.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:53:36]
 
SIDNER: A few hours from now, J.D. Vance and Tim Walz square off in a vice presidential debate. The first and only. While Donald Trump has continued to insult Walz on the campaign trail, calling him a moron, his surrogates and aides are taking a much different tone, warning that Walz is very good at debating and should not be underestimated. 
 
Perhaps no one has more knowledge about Tim Walz's debate style and skill than Blois Olson. He has moderated three debates with Walz, and he joins us now. 
 
Thank you so much for coming on. 
 
You've moderated these three debates with Walz. What did you see there? And Walz has warned Harris during the vetting process that he was a bad debater. Is that your takeaway? 
 
BLOIS OLSON, MODERATED THREE DEBATES WITH TIM WALZ: Thats not my takeaway at all. He's - he's a pro at underestimating himself and then delivering. 
 
In those three debates, he came in with clear themes, he knew his numbers, and he was very disciplined. He also - I think one of the pieces was that he rarely tried to get his opponents to react to him. Instead, he just stayed very steady in his own messaging.
 
SIDNER: It will be interesting to see because these are two very different debaters than you have between Trump and Harris.
 
Just out of curiosity, what are his strengths and what are his weaknesses? Because you've seen him three separate times doing this. 
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
What is it that he needs to be careful of, and what is it that his opponent can attack? And what will he do very well in?
 
OLSON: You know, I think his weaknesses are that he's emotional. We've seen that on the campaign stage. And I saw it in the third debate that I moderated, which was in August of 2022. His team did not like his performance. He was criticized heavily for not opening the state fast enough over Covid, the riot after George Floyd's killing, and really his team didn't do it. That's when they kind of started to wrap him in bubble wrap and protect him from tough questions. He then didn't debate much more. 
 
His strengths are that he's going to have quips. He's going to be folksy. He's going to tell a good story. The real question is, does he try to be the moderate, middle of the road, roots in rural America Tim Walz, or is he the progressive seller of progressive policies that he has advocated for here in Minnesota?
 
SIDNER: How well does he do under pressure in your estimation? Because you said, if the other side can sort of get him to be emotional, things can go downhill.
 
OLSON: That's his biggest weakness. When he is asked tough questions, when he is challenged on facts or stories or whether it was fraud in Minnesota due to Covid, he doesn't answer the questions. He avoids them. And he is quick. 
 
The thing today is, he won't be able to escape the stage, but he's been able to escape those in press conferences. Even while he was at the Minnesota State Fair last month, he really had this challenge with - he got a question about the Middle East, and they immediately cut it off. And so I think he's comfortable playing the role as vice presidential candidate. But tonight he'll be the one that has to answer all the questions. 
 
SIDNER: Blois Olson, thank you so much for coming on and explaining. That was great. Appreciate it.
 
BOLDUAN: The big debate is tonight.
 
SIDNER: It's coming.
 
BOLDUAN: And there's a lot that they've got to be asked.
 
Thank you all so much for joining us. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "CNN NEWSROOM," up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)