Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: CNN International: Israel to Call Up Two Reserve Over Hezbollah Conflict; Historic Meeting Between UAE President and U.S. President; New Report Details Secret Service Leadership Failures; U.S. All but Paused Push for Gaza Ceasefire Deal; Ukraine's Zelenskyy Addresses U.N. General Assembly. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired September 25, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this is the scene at United Nations Headquarters, where day two of its annual gathering is 
 
 kicking off right now. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will take to the podium in the coming hours. It is 09:00 a.m. in New York. It's 05:00 
 
 p.m. here in Abu Dhabi in the UAE. I'm Becky Anderson. This is "Connect the World".
 
As we monitor what is happening in New York, also making news this hour, Israel intercepts a ballistic missile over Tel Aviv. It's the first time a 
 
 Hezbollah attack has reached this far, close to the Israeli city. The UAE's Presidential Adviser tells me what he believes went wrong in the United 
 
 States's strategy towards Israel and the Palestinians. And a new report details the stunning failures by the Secret Service in the first 
 
 assassination attempt against Donald Trump.
 
Well, World leaders at the United Nations calling for peace in the Middle East. On the ground, a new escalation between Israel and the militant group 
 
 Hezbollah. Israel says it intercepted this missile as it approached Tel Aviv. This is Hezbollah's deepest strike ever into Israel. The group says 
 
 it was targeting the Israeli Intelligence Agency Mossad. 
 
Israel also firing into Lebanon again today. More than 20 people there were killed. Officials say some half a million people in Lebanon have now left 
 
 their homes. Some are sharing grim descriptions of remains strewn along the road. Villages in Southern Lebanon have been heading north, and the Israeli 
 
 military has a warning for them. Don't come back yet. It is not safe. 
 
Let's get you to the region with Jomana Karadsheh in Beirut and Nic Robertson, who is in Tel Aviv. Nic, we've known that Hezbollah has missiles 
 
 capable of reaching Tel Aviv. The graphic that I want to put on the screen now shows the various types and range of its rockets. As I understand it 
 
 this is the first time a missile of this kind launched by Hezbollah has ever reached close to the city. What do we understand happened?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yeah, Hezbollah said it was a ballistic missile which flies high, carries a much heavier payload, 
 
 hundreds of kilograms of explosives, than the shorter-range missiles that they're using have been using across the border, continue to use, and the 
 
 medium range missiles which go maybe 30 miles or so, 45 kilometers or so, inside of Israel. 
 
So, this was bigger and it flew higher, and it was intercepted, not by the Iron Dome, which is used for those to intercept those smaller missiles, but 
 
 by David Sling, which is Israel's missile interceptor for those much higher altitude, much faster flying missiles of the ballistic type that Hezbollah 
 
 said that it fired today and it was intercepted. 
 
It didn't reach its target, the Mossad Headquarters, which is what Hezbollah said where it was targeted to go. It's not -- we understand that 
 
 there were no casualties on the ground that this detonated in the air. But it does represent an escalation, not an escalation that some in Israel 
 
 feared could happen, whereby Hezbollah would fire multiple of these missiles to try to get around the defensive missile system here. 
 
So, one so it is a signal, but it really speaks to that escalation, and we've heard in the last hour that Israel has decided to call up two reserve 
 
 brigades of troops. This does seem to bolster the possibility and growing expectation that Israel may send troops across the border. 
 
They currently have their 98th division paratroopers up along the border, which are according to the defense minister who was visiting with them 
 
 yesterday when they were training their best prepared ever unit, they're best equipped. He said that they've been in combat for a year. So, they 
 
 were -- they were more than battle ready, that they had a lot of experience. 
 
So, it does appear as if this step change with the missile is bringing a step change with the way that Israel will respond. 
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
Nevertheless, it is continuing with this continuing round of missile strikes into Lebanon that they say are targeting Hezbollah infrastructure, 
 
 command and control, senior command, but that are killing civilians as they do that.
 
ANDERSON: Let me bring you in Jomana. Thank you, Nic. Beirut is providing shelter meantime for about 10,000 people displaced from Southern Lebanon 
 
 and the Israeli military warning them not to return home until further notice. As I understand it, there have been more extensive strikes on 
 
 Lebanon today. What do we understand? Or is it clear at this point what those strikes are targeting?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, Becky, first of all, when it comes to the mass displacement that we are seeing across Lebanon, 
 
 from Southern Lebanon, from Eastern parts of the country, from Lebanon -- from Beirut southern suburbs as well. There's no exact figure that has been 
 
 provided by authorities.
 
But as you had mentioned earlier, we are talking about, according to the foreign minister, a number that is approaching nearly half a million 
 
 people, which, if you put it into context, that's nearly 10 percent of Lebanon's population that has been displaced right now. 
 
I mean, you have people in their thousands, Syrians and Lebanese who are trying to cross back into Syria in search of safety into Syria Becky. And 
 
 you also have, for example, here in Beirut, in the hotel where we are staying at, we have seen an influx of displaced families who have arrived 
 
 from Southern Lebanon and also from the southern suburbs as well, with nowhere to stay. 
 
They are staying in hotels. So, this is definitely a crisis that this country cannot afford to deal with in terms of supporting mass displaced 
 
 population right now. And then you have the continuing air strikes. The Israeli military saying that they are carrying out extensive strikes that 
 
 are mostly focused on Southern Lebanon and the eastern Bakar region. 
 
They say that they have hit 100 Hezbollah targets, but that was earlier in the day. We've had reports of more strikes since the Israeli military says 
 
 it has continued or begun striking in -- in Southern Lebanon. So, we expect to get more updates during the day. 
 
Lebanese authorities are confirming these areas have seen heavy air strikes today, at least 23 people killed, according to the health ministry, a 
 
 number that is continuing to rise again by the hour, from what we are seeing dozens more injured. And it's unclear Becky, how many of those who 
 
 were killed and injured are Hezbollah fighters? How many of them are civilians? 
 
But as we have seen in the past few days, there are many women and children, according to Lebanese authorities, among the casualties. And then 
 
 you talk about the injured. You've got health care, the medical system in this country that was already on its knees before this because of the COVID 
 
 crisis, the financial and economic crisis.
 
The Beirut Port blast, as you know very well, they have been struggling to deal with the influx of thousands of injured in the past week, and everyone 
 
 you speak to here, Becky is bracing for what might come next, so much fear and apprehension.
 
ANDERSON: Jomana Karadsheh is in Beirut. Well, frustration, disappointment and contempt. Countries from this region are voicing all of those reactions 
 
 to Israel's role in the expanding Middle East violence, both inside the UNGA and on the sidelines. Take a listen to what the Emir of Qatar and 
 
 Iran's President had to say at the new -- the UN in New York on Tuesday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MASOUD PEZESHKIAN, IRANIAN PRESIDENT: Naturally blind Israeli state terrorism over the past few days in Lebanon, followed by a massive 
 
 aggression with thousands of victims, cannot go unanswered. The responsibility for all consequences will be borne by those governments who 
 
 have thwarted all global efforts to end this horrific catastrophe and have the audacity to call themselves champions of human rights. 
 
TAMIM BIN HAMAD AL THANI, EMIR OF QATAR: The blatant aggression against the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip today is the most barbaric, heinous 
 
 and widespread aggression and a violation of humanitarian values and international conventions and norms. This is not a war in international 
 
 relations in its well-known and common concept, rather, it is a crime of genocide using the latest weapons against the people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, there is also criticism of U.S. President Joe Biden's speech coming from Lebanon's Foreign Minister. President Biden only briefly 
 
 referenced the fighting Foreign Minister, Abdullah Habib, said it was not strong, it is not promising, and it would not solve this problem. While 
 
 adding, I am still hoping the United States is the only country that can really make a difference in the Middle East. And with regard to Lebanon.
 
He also said, the only way Israel's government can survive is with wars. And more on the region and what is being said in New York later in this 
 
 show. Meantime, we are watching for Volodymyr Zelenskyy's big speech at the United Nations. Ukrainian President set to give his address to the General 
 
 Assembly today, on Tuesday, Ukraine's wartime leader told the UN's most powerful body, the Security Council, that Russia would have to be, in his 
 
 words, forced into peace. 
 
Well, CNN's Former Moscow Bureau Chief, Jill Dougherty, is standing by in Washington, D.C., first let's join CNN's Fred Pleitgen live in Kyiv. We've 
 
 heard a little bit Fred from Zelenskyy while he has been in the States yesterday at the Security Council. Today he will be looking to shore up 
 
 support for his touted victory plan. Let's just hear what he said yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: Putin has broken so many international norms and rules that he won't stop on his own. Russia can 
 
 only be forced into peace, and that is exactly what's needed, forcing Russia into peace at the sole aggressor in this war, the sole violator of 
 
 the UN Charter.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, he is touting a victory plan. What that will entail is unclear. Jill Dougherty, joining us now. I'll get back to -- get back to 
 
 Fred we seem to have lost communication with him. It is good to have you, Jill. What do you make of what we heard from Zelenskyy? What we might 
 
 expect to hear from him later today, in an hour or so at the UN? And what do we know about what he is touting as this victory plan at this point?
 
JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Becky, I think the most important thing that he said in the UN is really this idea that you have to force Russia 
 
 into peace, force Putin into peace. Now, you know, the world has been focused on, how do you bring about peace? Could there be negotiations, et 
 
 cetera? 
 
And essentially, I think what Zelenskyy is saying is it's not going to happen that Putin is not interested in negotiations and does not, at least 
 
 at this point, want peace. So, what he's saying is you essentially have to force him. And forcing is short term and long term. And that's where it 
 
 gets complicated for Zelenskyy.
 
He needs the weapons he would argue. He needs far more weapons than he has. He needs the approval of the United States and some of the other countries, 
 
 UK and France, although they are farther down the road on this. You need the approval to use long range missiles to hit military targets in Russia. 
 
And then longer term, you need to have kind of a psychological diplomatic part of this, which is to show Putin that there is some type of security 
 
 guarantee for Ukraine that goes way beyond now. Ukraine would like that to mean NATO being members of NATO, but it also could be bilateral security 
 
 guarantees or commitments by different countries. 
 
He already has some of those. And they would make sure that Putin knows that attacking again, let's say the war ends, attacking again will not be 
 
 possible. It's really, I think it's a very critical point for Zelenskyy, because we can talk about this, but militarily, he has problems within his 
 
 own country right now, of the Russians moving ahead in Donbass.
 
ANDERSON: Zelenskyy will be keenly aware of the timing of this visit, this opportunity to address world leaders at the United Nations coming, as it 
 
 does with U.S. elections just around the corner. I want to play a little bit of what Donald Trump had to say yesterday stand by.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Every time Zelenskyy comes to the United States, he walks away with $100 
 
 billion. I think he's the greatest salesman on Earth. But we're stuck in that war on -- I'm president. I'll get it done. I'll get it negotiated. 
 
 I'll get out. We got to get out. Biden says we will not leave until we.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: What do you make of what you heard from Donald Trump and how Zelenskyy may treat his words?
 
DOUGHERTY: Well, Zelenskyy already has treated his words by saying, actually, pretty overtly, that Donald Trump does not know or does not 
 
 understand the situation and that negotiation at this point isn't going to work. I mean, this is Donald Trump, and a change in administration at least 
 
 two Republicans, or to Donald Trump would be really, really difficult.
 
And that's mildly put for Zelenskyy and for Ukraine, because, after all, Donald Trump, you can hear here, is saying enough already. We've given 
 
 enough, and we're not going to give any more. So, this in addition to the military, diplomatic, economic, et cetera, challenges Zelenskyy has 
 
 worldwide. He has the election in the United States coming up very soon, like 40 some days. 
 
So, he will on Thursday, tomorrow, he will be meeting, or is expected to meet with Biden and with Harris. He does not know, or at least we don't 
 
 know at this point whether he will meet with Trump, but he has a huge challenge here in the United States, domestically.
 
ANDERSON: Fred, let me bring you in here at this point. What's the perspective on the ground where you are as we focus keenly, of course, on 
 
 this upcoming speech by the Ukrainian President?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think the feeling on the ground here, Becky, is that this is definitely a key 
 
 week for the Ukrainian President, certainly also keen week -- a key week for the entire country. And the way forward, really, to try and bring this 
 
 war to a close and to a close that is acceptable for the Ukrainians. 
 
One of the things, of course, that we have to see in the backdrop of all of this as President Zelenskyy is there in the United States and at the United 
 
 Nations, is that right now, it's a really difficult situation for the Ukrainians on many areas of the battlefield. 
 
If you look, for instance, in the east of the country, the Russians have been made -- making faster gains than before. They're not very fast gains, 
 
 but they certainly are faster than before in the east of the country. And in some areas, there, the situation is quite critical for the Ukrainians, 
 
 where they remain outmanned by far, and still remain outgunned as well, even though they are getting more from their allies than they had been 
 
 before. 
 
The Ukrainians, of course, at the same time launching that incursion into Russian territory, hoping to relieve some of the pressure on those other 
 
 front lines. And President Zelenskyy has said that all of that is also part of what he calls his victory plan. 
 
So essentially, what he's trying to tell the Biden Administration is, look, stick with us for now. Stick with us in the long term, and we will try to 
 
 bring this war to an acceptable close in the not-too distant future. And I think one of the things that we've really seen over the past couple of days 
 
 is Volodymyr Zelenskyy trying to put in place, if you will, the building blocks to set all of this up.
 
First on the international stage we saw yesterday in the United Nations Security Council. On the one hand, you already said that. he said, that. He 
 
 said that Russia can only be forced into peace, as he put it. But he also made very clear that from Ukraine's perspective, and certainly from many 
 
 nations in the international community as well, that it is the Russians who are in gross violation of the UN Charter, the basis of which is, of course, 
 
 the territorial integrity of nation.
 
And that's the message that he's going to take the General Assembly and then also to the Biden Administration to say, look hold up international 
 
 law. Hold up international norms. Stay with Ukraine. Ukraine has a path forward. It's a high stake and very difficult task for the Ukrainian 
 
 President, and certainly it's going to be something that the Ukrainian nation will have their eyes on as he meets with President Biden. But of 
 
 course, then also tries to meet with the presidential candidates as well Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you both. Thank you very much indeed. Well, folks, you're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson. Time in Abu 
 
 Dhabi in the UAE is 18 minutes past 5, just after quarter past 9 of course, in New York. When we come back the UAE President at the White House earlier 
 
 this week for an historic meeting between Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, as the two countries underscore the importance of what has 
 
 been a 50-year partnership talking geopolitics and geo-tech.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, an historic White House meeting on Monday between President Joe Biden and U.S. UAE President Mohammed bin Zayed underscoring what the 
 
 UAE describes as a 360-degree partnership between the two nations. Well, traditionally rooted in defense and security. Today, the U.S./UAE 
 
 partnership is focused squarely on the global tech race. 
 
The UAE is investing billions of dollars in advanced technologies and the clean energy required to power AI, and much of that investment is in 
 
 partnership with U.S., companies including Microsoft and AI giant Nvidia. 
 
Well, the two countries pledged to work together to ensure the responsible deployment of advanced tech has both looked to scale up the necessary 
 
 infrastructure to take a lead in what you could describe as a new Geotech era. While AI took center stage at the meeting, the volatile geopolitical 
 
 landscape was also discussed with President Biden, naming the UAE a major defense partner.
 
And Vice President Harris also at the meeting, highlighting the evolving relationship between the two on X writing, we are also working to 
 
 strengthen regional stability and address the grave humanitarian crises in Gaza and Sudan. 
 
Well, I spoke to Anwar Gargash, Diplomatic Adviser to the President, who is traveling in the U.S. with him, to get the UAE's perspective on this 
 
 escalation in the region and discuss beyond the considerable ongoing humanitarian effort by the UAE and Gaza. What else the UAE can or will 
 
 offer in terms of support for the region now and in the future? Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
H.E. DR. ANWAR GARGASH, DIPLOMATIC ADVISOR TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UAE: We see de-escalation right now as the main goal. De-escalation in Gaza, de-
 
 escalation in the West Bank. De-escalation in Lebanon. The events of the last 48 hours have been disturbing and have been very concerning. And you 
 
 know, our concerns, together with the rest of the world, of an expanded war, remain a priority. 
 
The history of conflict in the region has shown us that you cannot settle big differences, historical differences through conflict and UAE believes 
 
 that maximalist positions from all parties, Israeli parties, some of the Arab non-state actors, are really leading the area to more and more 
 
 complex. 
 
In parallel to the de-escalation, we are also emerging as a major believer and a major player in terms of addressing the humanitarian needs. 
 
 Unfortunately, every crisis comes at a huge humanitarian cost. And what you are seeing really in Gaza is heart wrenching. 
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
We think that maximalist views are hindering consensus on a day after, and we're worried without a clear day after, any attempt really at the 
 
 ceasefire might appear futile.
 
ANDERSON: A recent tweet by the UAE Foreign Minister was pretty definitive. The UAE would not play any role in the day after in Gaza, unless a 
 
 Palestinian state is established. Is a Palestinian state a viable path towards a Palestinian state even viable in narrative, in conversation, is 
 
 it a reality at this point?
 
GARGASH: What we are saying is that longer term, clearly, the policy of containment has failed. The idea, basically of trying to sort of 
 
 circumnavigate the Palestinian issue has led to these-continued-crisis. We really have to address these issues as much as we have to address Israel's 
 
 right to exist and to security.
 
We also have to address the legitimate right of the Palestinians to a state. Unfortunately, what we are seeing there is an example of a 
 
 locomotive that is being led by the most extreme on both parties, whether it is non-government organizations on the Arab side or such as Hezbollah 
 
 and Hamas or the right wing that we are seeing today in Israel, dictating and influencing policy.
 
And we do really need to go back to the center on both sides, the Arab side and the Israeli side. The security of the region, the livelihood of future 
 
 generations and their expectations for the region, really depend on a policy that goes beyond containment. 
 
ANDERSON: As the war continues does the UAE see this impacting the Abraham Accords and further such accords around the region?
 
GARGASH: Well, I'm not going to speak about further such accords. But I will definitely come and say that the Abraham Accord is a strategic 
 
 decision by the UAE. It has allowed us to play and continue to play a role in talking to all parties and spectrums of Israeli politicians. 
 
You will have ups and downs in terms of the -- you know the surrounding environment, but the courts remain, in my opinion, a major component 
 
 really, of different architecture for the region, architecture based on greater communication stability, and I would say longer term prosperity 
 
 also.
 
ANDERSON: We live in an era of real geopolitical volatility, not least in the Middle East. We also do live in what seems to be a new era of geo-
 
 economics and increasingly, geo-tech, geopolitics, geo-economics, geo-tech, what role does the UAE see itself playing?
 
GARGASH: The two pillars of our policy are stability and prosperity. On the national level, they are concerned about UAE stability and UAE prosperity. 
 
 But beyond the national level, I think we also have a responsibility towards regional stability and regional prosperity. 
 
We are a firm believer that, on the one hand, we want to work on the prosperity of the UAE, but we also want a spillover effect, a cascading 
 
 effect. You can't prosper alone. You have to prosper collectively. The UAE is a trailblazer. But also, I think we have a mindset where see -- where we 
 
 see cooperation as the future, not competition.
 
ANDERSON: For some time, your country has sought deeper regional security assurances from the United States. Following the meeting with President 
 
 Biden, he posted on X and I quote, I spoke with the UAE President about carrying our nation's relationship forward, including the UAE becoming a 
 
 major defense partner of the United States.
 
GARGASH: The visit of His Highness the President was mostly and almost exclusively about the future. It was about the economy. It's about 
 
 technology. And about the UAE's bid to partner in what is the technology of the future partner and an investor, and so on so forth.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
These meetings will always cover some regional issues, especially looking at the sort of environment that we see today. I think the U.S. announcement 
 
 in this area, and understanding that the UAE and India have that designation, is again another sign of a huge trust in the UAE by 
 
 Washington.
 
From a practical point of view, it will mean a lot of things in terms of procurement, in terms of training, and so and so forth. And in terms of how 
 
 that relationship is being seen by people who actually, you know, manage that relationship in terms in the defense area.
 
But I think the political signal here is extremely important, a signal of trust, a signal of a partnership that has really gone through a lot of 
 
 difficult tests and has emerged, you know, even stronger.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: The Diplomatic Adviser to the UAE President Anwar Gargash, speaking to me from New York just after the show yesterday. Well still to 
 
 come, shocking new revelations, brand new details on the security failures surrounding the first assassination attempt on Former President Trump, that 
 
 is coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. All hour we've been laser focused on the expanding conflict between Israel and Lebanon and 
 
 what world leaders are up to at the United Nations annual gathering in New York. We are tracking several other developing stories for you.
 
Let's get you up to speed on some of those. Just 10 days before Donald Trump is set to return to Butler, Pennsylvania. We are learning new details 
 
 about the stunning Secret Service failures that led to the attempt on his life there. A U.S. Senate report finds there was no sole decision maker at 
 
 the July rally.
 
Secret Service leadership was nonexistent, and it was unclear who was in charge of what. Even more troubling, the report says those failures were, 
 
 quote, foreseeable and preventable. CNN's National Security Reporter Zachary Cohen is live in Washington with the very latest, Zachary.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yeah, Becky, lawmakers say that this report details what they're calling a perfect storm of security 
 
 failures that can largely be attributed to incompetence on the part of the U.S. Secret Service. And as you mentioned, one part of this report that 
 
 lawmakers are specifically saying that they're shocked by.
 
Frankly, is the fact that they interviewed several U.S. Secret Service agents who were involved in the planning, the security planning around 
 
 Donald Trump's July 13th rally, and not a single one of them could identify who was actually in charge of the rally that day from a security 
 
 perspective, and who was the ultimate decision maker, telling lawmakers that it was a more collaborative process.
 
But as we know, that collaborative process resulted in several things falling through the cracks, balls being dropped, including no plan to 
 
 secure that building that ultimately the shooter was able to climb up on the roof of and have a clear line of sight at Donald Trump. And look, this 
 
 report is the latest in a series of concerning revelations about the security failures around Donald Trump's July 13th rally.
 
Obviously, those have been exacerbated in the wake of the second attempted assassination of the former president, and also this persistent and 
 
 lingering threat that U.S. intelligence officials say is posed by Iran, who is increasingly planning to ramp up their attacks and their plans to target 
 
 Donald Trump and people around him.
 
So really, this evolving threat environment adding to concerns about Donald Trump's security and really prompting calls from lawmakers for the Secret 
 
 Service to overhaul the way that they protect not just Donald Trump, but anyone under their protection.
 
ANDERSON: Understood. It's 09:36 in Washington, D.C. Thank you. The U.S. aerospace giant Boeing, facing no shortage of challenges right now, it is 
 
 in the grips of a major labor strike on top of months of lingering questions about its plane's safety, which erupted after that frightening 
 
 door plug incident back in January.
 
A new report out today from the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration or the FAA, reveals the troubling results of a special investigation. It says 
 
 factory workers felt pressure to put speed over quality. Some workers said they lacked proper job training. CNN Aviation Correspondent Pete Muntean 
 
 joining us now with the details. This is pretty damning staff, Pete. Just walk us through this audit and what else it found?
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: Some egregious findings here. Becky in this never before published audit of Boeing's plant in Renton, 
 
 Washington, the same plant where that brand new 737 MAX 9 rolled off the production line without the critical door plug bolts installed, leading to 
 
 that terrifying door plug blowout you just saw on Alaska Airlines Flight 1282.
 
The findings include the results of an FAA survey of 2100 Boeing workers on the 737 line, and about half said that schedule pressure is still 
 
 significant, essentially putting speed over quality, which is huge, since this was a quality control failure that led to that door plug incident, one 
 
 more big finding.
 
Workers said they felt inadequately trained by Boeing to do their jobs, and some said that Boeing was not providing them with the proper tools. The FAA 
 
 audit found that one worker was using a tool he made himself to check the gaps between certain parts of the airplane.
 
The report says this, this tool is mechanic-made unauthorized, uncalibrated, unmarked, and when asked how other door mechanics take this 
 
 measurement, that mechanic said they all do the same thing. Now these findings were released by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on 
 
 Investigations.
 
And in just a few hours, it will grill the FAA Administrator, Mike Whitaker, saying that the agency has not stayed on top of Boeing. Yesterday 
 
 during a different hearing on Capitol Hill, Whittaker insisted that the FAA ramped up its oversight of Boeing, and that Boeing has made some strides, 
 
 but I want you to listen now to what he said about a turnaround of Boeing's culture when it comes to safety.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE WHITAKER, FAA ADMINISTRATOR: I think the safety culture change is going to be a long-term project. I think it's going to take years of 
 
 delivering that safety message and the employees actually seeing that safety is more important than production for that culture to change. So, 
 
 it's going to take a very long-term sustained commitment.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUNTEAN: A bit of a different tone during that hearing yesterday. Now today, it seems like the FAA Administrator walking into a bit of a buzz 
 
 saw. Boeing underscores to me that it's taken big steps to empower its workers, but it's a bit of a journey. Remember Boeing workers are still on 
 
 strike now in its 13th day.
 
And interestingly, the FAA Chief said yesterday that Boeing had a new safety plan to roll out to employees, but that rollout has been delayed by 
 
 the strike that's still ongoing, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, Pete, thank you very much indeed.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
Well, tropical storm Helene is churning in the Gulf of Mexico between the Yucatan Peninsula and Cuba, and over the next day, it is forecast to 
 
 explode into a major hurricane with Florida's gulf coast in the crosshairs. And the storm will become so big it is forecast to move so fast that it 
 
 will have major impacts, well in land, after making landfall.
 
We are standing by for a statement from the Governor of Florida. Meantime, CNN's Meteorologist Allison Chinchar is with us. And I will break in if 
 
 indeed we get Ron DeSantis up live. But Allison, just walk us through what we know at this point and what we can expect?
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Right. So, we know it is still a tropical storm, but it's at the highest possible threshold for that, 
 
 meaning the sustained winds are at 70 miles per hour, but at 75 it becomes a hurricane. So, we anticipate the storm will become hurricane strength at 
 
 some point today.
 
There are not one but two different hurricane hunter planes investigating this particular storm to give us back some more data that we will then use 
 
 to help improve the forecast as it continues to go through the Gulf of Mexico. The Gulf of Mexico is incredibly warm right now.
 
That is fuel for storms like this. That's why we anticipate that it will become not only a hurricane today, but a major hurricane by the time we get 
 
 to Thursday. The storm is still expected to make landfall late Thursday, local time, in the Big Bend region of Florida, before continuing to move 
 
 inland.
 
But it's going to be very fast moving as it does so, that means it's going to make it pretty far inland before it really starts to weaken. Areas of 
 
 South and Central Georgia still could end up seeing hurricane force wind gusts as the system continues to slide through. Storm surge is going to be 
 
 a big factor, especially pretty much up and down the entire West Coast of the Florida peninsula.
 
The worst of it is going to be in this Big Bend region here, where we could anticipate 10 to 15 feet of storm surge. The winds are also expected to be 
 
 very high, especially because this will be a Category 3, potentially hurricane at the time of landfall. That means those 100-plus mile per hour 
 
 winds are going to stretch, not only right there along the ocean itself, but even inland places like Tallahassee, Valdosta, Georgia, could end up 
 
 having some pretty significant wind gusts.
 
And a lot of this area too is covered with trees. So even some of those wind gusts, say around 60 to 80 miles per hour, that is plenty to bring 
 
 down some trees and power lines. So, power outages are likely going to be a big problem too. When we talk about rainfall, you can see it's widespread 
 
 across several of these areas.
 
You're talking four to six inches. But it is not out of the question, especially across Georgia and some areas of Western North Carolina and 
 
 Eastern Tennessee, where they could pick up 8, 10, if not even as much as 12 inches of rain before it's all said and done. This is why, over the next 
 
 several days, we have that risk for excessive rainfall and the potential for flooding.
 
And once you get into the higher elevations of the Southern Appalachian Mountains, you could be looking at landslides and mudslides as well. The 
 
 focus for today or on Wednesday is really going to be these areas here, across portions of Northern Georgia, stretching into western North 
 
 Carolina, where we have that moderate risk.
 
And then by Thursday, you can see it really starts to spread out. A lot more areas are going to be impacted as a lot of that moisture from Helene 
 
 really begins to spread inland. We also have a high risk that's a level four out of four, the highest possible category you can get for this flood 
 
 risk that's going to be an impact across portions of Northeastern Georgia as well as Western North Carolina.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. Thank you very much indeed, Allison. And we are waiting on Florida Governor Ron DeSantis to give us a briefing on that 
 
 hurricane. We will be keeping a close eye on that for you. We will get to it as soon as we see him. Ahead on "Connect the World", after months of 
 
 struggling to forge a ceasefire in Gaza, the U.S. is now revisiting its short-term goals. What the White House is saying, is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
ANDERSON: You're watching CNN. I'm Becky Anderson, and this is "Connect the World". Sources telling CNN that the Biden Administration has all but 
 
 paused its attempts to get Israel and Hamas to agree to a ceasefire and hostage deal. They say that the U.S. is recognizing that reaching a deal in 
 
 the near term is almost impossible due, they say, to the lack of political will from either side.
 
National Security Communications Adviser for the White House, John Kirby, spoke to CNN last hour. He went on to insist the Biden Administration is 
 
 continuing its push for a deal, but said Hamas' leader is the main obstacle.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Is a hostage's ceasefire deal with Hamas on ice right now?
 
JOHN KIRBY, WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY COMMUNICATIONS ADVISER: I don't know that I would describe it as on ice, Kate. I would tell you that we 
 
 still have the shoulder to the wheel. The president still has directed his team to continue to work on it. Are we making --
 
BOLDUAN: I'm not trying to -- I have the -- I bet we have the families of these hostages on and Adi Alexander told me last week, optimism is gone.
 
KIRBY: Yeah.
 
BOLDUAN: They're trying to hold on to hope.
 
KIRBY: And I hope they still can. I hope they still can, and I hope that they know President Biden's not going to give up the faith.
 
BOLDUAN: How is it possible that you can get a hostage ceasefire deal in the midst of Hezbollah and Israel now fighting?
 
KIRBY: As the president said, something's unrealistic, until all of a sudden, it's not. And when you're in negotiations, you never know when that 
 
 breakthrough is going to come. Look, it's clear to us that Mr. Sinwar isn't interested in a ceasefire right now. He's dug in in a tunnel somewhere, 
 
 surrounded by hostages --
 
BOLDUAN: -- interested in a ceasefire.
 
KIRBY: The Israeli, the proposal on the table is an Israeli proposal. It's the one that the prime minister and his team put forward, and they continue 
 
 to talk to us about moving this thing forward. I would just tell you that Mr. Sinwar is the main obstacle.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Right. Well, Kylie Atwood is in Washington with more. We, look, we talk to our regional sources here all of the time, and you hear a 
 
 slightly different story. You and I know, Kylie, there is not only a lot of much criticism of Yahya Sinwar, who is now the head and would be the head 
 
 in any negotiations for Hamas.
 
But also, criticism of Benjamin Netanyahu, of course, not least by the hostage families themselves, many of whom we say is sacrificing a ceasefire 
 
 and hostage deal for a coalition that, frankly, will keep him in office. Look realistically, where do these negotiations stand at this point? And 
 
 what of Washington's involvement? Does it have any plan B at this point? 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, listen, we have been saying that the negotiations have been paused for quite some time. I think 
 
 it's more realistic to say at this moment, they have hit a dead end. When we see what is happening between Israel and Hezbollah along that Lebanon 
 
 border, it has made it much more complicated.
 
If not impossible, Becky, U.S. officials say, to drive forth what it is those efforts to bring about an end to the war in Gaza, those ceasefire and 
 
 hostage negotiations that the U.S. officials have been working feverishly on for months, notably, when I visited the region with the Secretary of 
 
 State last month, he went to Egypt.
 
He didn't even travel to Israel. Was the first time since October 7th, that he had traveled to the region and not gone to Israel.
 
ANDERSON: OK.
 
ATWOOD: It was an indication --
 
ANDERSON: Kylie, I'm going to just -- I'm just going to break into you here, and I'll get you back, because Volodymyr Zelenskyy is just about to 
 
 speak at the United Nations, and we must listen in.
 
ZELENSKYY: And a day that must never come. On the night of March 4, 2022, I received one of the most terrifying reports in the beginning of a full-
 
 scale Russian invasion against Ukraine.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
The report, what about Russian tanks firing directly at the buildings of our Ukrainian nuclear power plant, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, 
 
 the largest one in Europe, six nuclear reactors. The Russian army stormed this facility, just as brutally as any other during this war, without 
 
 thinking about the consequences, possibly disastrous.
 
This was one of the most horrifying moments of the war, when no one could know how Russian strikes on the nuclear facility would end, and everyone in 
 
 Ukraine was reminded of what Chernobyl means. Now, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant remains occupied by Russian forces, unfortunately.
 
And it's at risk of a nuclear incident. This is the major source of radiation danger in Europe, possibly in the world. That's why, in the Peace 
 
 Formula I presented, the first point is about nuclear safety. In Ukraine, we know exactly what we are dealing with. And I want to thank you the 
 
 general assembly members for adopting a resolution in July this year on the safety of nuclear facilities in Ukraine.
 
Most in the world understand what's at stake. The General Assembly demanded that Russian return control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant to 
 
 Ukraine, only then real nuclear security will return to Europe and the world. And now about the day that must never come.
 
Since Russia can't defeat our people's resistance on the battlefield, Putin is looking for other ways to break the Ukrainian spirit. One of his methods 
 
 is targeting our energy infrastructure, and these are deliberate Russian attacks on our power plants and the entire energy grid.
 
As of today, Russia has destroyed all our thermal power plants and a large part of our hydroelectric capacity. This is how Putin is preparing for 
 
 winter, hoping to torment millions, millions of Ukrainians, ordinary families, women, children, ordinary towns, ordinary villages.
 
Putin wants to leave them in the dark and cold this winter, forcing Ukraine to suffer and surrender. Just imagine, please, your country, with 80 
 
 percent of its energy system gone with such a destroyed part of the system. What kind of life would that be in? Recently, I received yet another 
 
 alarming report from our intelligence.
 
Now, Putin does seem to be planning attacks on our nuclear power plants and the infrastructure aiming to disconnect the plants from the power grid with 
 
 the help of satellites, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, satellites of other countries. Russia is getting images and detailed 
 
 information about the infrastructure of our nuclear power plants.
 
But what does this really threaten, any missile or drone strike, any critical incident in the energy system could lead to a nuclear disaster, a 
 
 day like that must never come. And Moscow needs to understand this, and this depends in part on your determination to put pressure on the 
 
 aggressor.
 
These are nuclear power plants. They must be safe. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, in the fall of 2022, I proposed a comprehensive strategy to 
 
 end the war and to ensure security, and I presented the Peace Formula at a highly inclusive political platform for world leaders, the G20 summit in 
 
 Indonesia, representing billions of citizens from all parts of the globe.
 
And it's important for us that all these people can understand us, understand that Ukraine wants to end this war more than anyone in the 
 
 world. War always poses a threat to many. You all see in the media and read in reports what is happening in Ukraine because of Russia's war.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
It's something many are imagining happening to themselves. And yes, the smoke from fires in war torn cities can reach other countries. And if, God 
 
 forbid, Russia causes a nuclear disaster at one of our nuclear power plants, radiation will not respect state borders.
 
And unfortunately, various nations could feel the devastating effects, many are concerned but the deepest understanding of war is always found in the 
 
 home it destroys, if the Ukrainian people who feel the full pain of this war. It's Ukrainian children who are longing to distinguish the sounds of 
 
 different types of artillery and drones because of Russia's war.
 
It's our people who are forcefully separated by occupation because Putin decided he could do whatever he wants. It's our heroic soldiers who are 
 
 giving their lives to defend our country from invaders trying to steal our land. That's why we say rightfully so, there can be no just peace without 
 
 Ukraine.
 
And I think every leader, every country that supports us in this, that understands us, that sees how Russia, a country more than 20 times larger 
 
 than Ukraine, in territory, still wants even more land, more land, which is insane and is seizing it day by day, while wanting to destroy its neighbor.
 
And Russia found very special bodies for that, North Korea and Iran telling choice of friends. And now every neighbor of Russia in Europe and Central 
 
 Asia feels that the war could come to them as well. And just think what kind of losses that would mean for the world. And I thank nearly 100 
 
 nations and international organizations that have supported the Peace Formula.
 
It's truly a global community, Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, North America, the Pacific region, all united by the Peace Formula. And I'm glad 
 
 that the first Peace Summit was so reminding of the U.N. General Assembly. Everyone was equal, all nations that participated in the Peace Summit, 
 
 large and small, no veto ride, no blocking authority.
 
Those that have been independent for ages and those that have only recently gained independence, those that have gone through wars themselves and those 
 
 accustomed to peace, all were equal. That is what Russia hates the most and cannot control. That's why Russia says the Peace Formula doesn't suit it.
 
Here at the U.N. I've already met with leaders from India, Guatemala, Japan and Italy, Turkey and Finland, Canada, Paraguay, Slovenia, Germany and 
 
 others and my meetings will continue. These are different absolutely parts of the world and various political waves of life, but they share the same 
 
 understanding peace is needed, and it must be a real, just peace.
 
Unfortunately, at the U.N. it's impossible to truly and firmly resolve matters of war and peace, because too much depends in the Security Council 
 
 on the veto power. When the aggressor exercise veto power, the U.N. is powerless to stop the war, but the Peace Formula can once again, there is 
 
 no veto power in it.
 
That's why it's the best opportunity for peace. Everyone is equal, and it's effective and comprehensive. When some propose alternatives, half-hearted 
 
 settlement plans, so called sets of principles, it not only ignores the interests and suffering of Ukrainians who are affected by the war the most.
 
It not only ignores reality, but also gives Putin the political space to continue the war and pressure the world to bring more nations under 
 
 control.
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END