Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Top U.S. General In Israel Amid Concerns Of Iranian Attack; VP Harris Heads To Arizona For Women's Rights Campaign Push; Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Is Interviewed About House Vote On Modified Surveillance Bill. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired April 12, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:48]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now, concerns over Iran potentially attacking Israel are stoking more tensions in the Middle East right now. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is convening his war cabinet to discuss the country's readiness.
 
Plus, just days after the Arizona Supreme Court revived a 160-year-old law banning abortion. Vice President Kamala Harris is heading to the battleground state to try to rally voters against Donald Trump.
 
And later today, the former interpreter for Shohei Ohtani will turn himself into federal authorities. He's accused of stealing millions of dollars from the baseball superstar.
 
Hello, I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington. And you're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
 
We begin in the Middle East right now, CNN has learned that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is meeting with his war cabinet just ahead of what they anticipate could be a potential attack from Iran. It comes after an Israeli airstrike hit the Iranian consulate in Damascus, Syria last week killing a dozen Iranian military officials.
 
The Pentagon says the top U.S. General for the Middle East is in Israel right now meeting with Israeli military officials about the security threats. And the White House tells CNN that officials there are keeping a very close eye on the situation and are in constant communication with Israel.
 
Let's get to the latest reporting from our correspondents, CNN international diplomatic editor Nic Robertson, who's joining us from Jerusalem. And our Natasha Bertrand who is over at the Pentagon. Nic first to you, first of all, what can you tell us about this Israeli war cabinet meeting? How concerned are Israelis right now that Iran could launch an attack, a retaliatory attack against Israel?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: There's a real concern, Wolf, that Iran could do that in the coming 24 or 48 hours. I've talked to various intelligence sources in the region at the moment, they understand, and this is what we're getting from a lot of different sources, that Iran is poised to respond. Now of course, this could be Iran intentionally disinforming putting disinformation out there just to create that the sense of jitters among the Israeli public here among the leadership in Israel about precisely what they'll do.
 
And it's unclear what they'll do. Will they respond and straight back directly to Israel themselves, whether use proxies to strike into Israel, where they strike Israeli interests elsewhere in the region? That's a question on people's minds at the moment. But that strength of on show of unity and support between the United States and Israel is on display today at the Hatzor Airbase in the south of Israel.
 
The CENTCOM Commander General Erik Kurilla there with Yoav Gallant, the Israeli Defense Minister, the deputy IDF Chief of Staff also there. So this is very much a message of unity and strength and preparedness. So this is what we heard from Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari, the IDF spokesperson just last night, speaking about how prepared Israel is for whatever threat comes from Iran.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANIEL HAGARI, IDF SPOKESMAN (through translator): We're highly alert and prepared for a wide range of scenarios and are conducting a situational assessment. We're ready in both defense and offense with the various IDF capabilities and strategic partners. A strike coming from Iranian territory will clearly prove the Iranian intentions to escalate the situation in the Middle East, and to stop hiding behind its proxies.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERTSON: And I think you'll get a level of the understanding of how this concern is shared jointly between the United States and Israel, the State Department and the embassy here, warning staff not to stray beyond the sort of Tel Aviv area, Jerusalem area, Be'er Sheva area, stay in those areas. The concern is it's just not clear what Iran's move is going to be the sense that it could be soon, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: Yes. There's a lot of concern in those ends. The U.S. Embassy and other embassies in Israel as well are issuing warnings to their citizens to stay put basically and worry -- start worrying about the potential, let's hope it doesn't happen, about the potential of this war escalating big time between Israel and Iran.
 <br>[11:05:09]
 
Natasha, I want to go to the Pentagon with you for a moment. The top U.S. military commander in the Middle East, the commander of the U.S. military Central Command is in Israel right now. We just heard Nic, talk about that. What do we know about his trip, the coordination that's going on between the United States and Israel in anticipation in fear of a formal a full scale Iranian retaliatory response?
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Well, Wolf, Erik Kurilla, the top General for the Middle East, he did say that the U.S. -- the Pentagon did say also that the U.S. stands with Israel against any potential attack that Iran might launch against the Israelis. And President Biden made this very clear as well, that they are in constant coordination with the Israelis to prepare for the possibility that they do launch some kind of attack directly on Israeli soil.
 
And according to a readout from the Israeli side, General Erik Kurilla, he did meet with Yoav Gallant today to discuss readiness for an Iranian attack against the State of Israel, which may lead to regional escalation. So clearly, all sides here are bracing for the possibility that this escalates into a full on conflict between Iran and Israel.
 
However, U.S. intelligence assessments, as we reported a little bit earlier in the week, they assess that this is more likely to be carried out by Iranian proxy forces in the region rather than from Iran directly. And that is for a number of reasons, but most prominently is because the Iranians don't necessarily want to get involved in a full blown war with Israel that the U.S. as they have stated publicly, would then come to Israel's defense with.
 
So the Iranians trying to kind of temper their response, according to our sources. However, it is very possible at this point, according to intelligence assessments that these Iranian proxies carry out attacks against Israeli assets in the region. And so all sides kind of bracing for that and importantly, how Israel is going to respond, because that is also going to inform just how much this conflict escalates, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: So Natasha, just to be precise, if the Hezbollah and Iranian proxy in southern Lebanon starts launching rockets and missiles, bombs towards Haifa, Tel Aviv, elsewhere in Israel, the Israelis presumably would respond big time against Hezbollah, in southern Lebanon tried to destroy their capability. But it wouldn't necessarily attack directly Iranian targets in Iran. Is that the U.S. understanding as well?
 
BERTRAND: Well, it's not clear just whether the U.S. would characterize an attack by an Iranian proxy against Israel as an attack by Iran itself. The U.S. has made very clear, of course, that the proxies are only able to function and really survived because of Iranian support for them. But at the same time, you know, it would definitely be a layer removed from Iran itself if the proxies were the ones carrying out these attacks.
 
However, Israel has said that they are going to respond forcibly to whatever kind of attack they are faced with by Iran or its proxies. And so it just remains to be seen how exactly this is going to play out.
 
BLITZER: All right, very important, very worrisome developments unfolding right now. Natasha, thank you. Nic, thanks to you as well.
 
I want to bring in CNN military analyst, retired U.S. Army Lieutenant General Mark Hertling. General, thanks so much for joining us. As you know, officials are telling CNN, they expect Iran will respond imminently, key word imminently. Do you think Iran is likely to strike Israel directly? Or could that happen through a proxy like Hezbollah, for example, in Lebanon?
 
LT. GENERAL MARK HERTLING, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Everyone's asking that question, Wolf. And what I'd say is General Kurilla is there because he's looking at what is the most dangerous course of action that Iran will take, and what's the most likely. The most dangerous is a strike by Iran inside of Israel, because that could certainly cause an inflection point and expand this war.
 
The most likely, as all your reporters Natasha just said, is likely an attack by any number of proxy groups, whether it's Hezbollah in Lebanon, or any of the PMF forces in Iraq or Syria, or in the area. So that's what General Kurilla and probably he has some of his intelligence officers with them, as well as some of his operators so that they can react with naval and air forces from the U.S., in case anything does happen, because the key is deterring any further expansion of this regional conflict.
 
The Israeli strike on that Iranian Consulate building in Damascus was what about a week or so ago? Why do you think Iran has not waited this long to respond? They immediately issued warnings that they were going to respond, but they haven't yet.
 
HERTLING: Well, part of it is the messaging that Iran off often uses, and they're concerned about attacking inside of Israel because, truthfully, Wolf, as you know, Israel's force is pretty extensive and pretty competent. They can certainly go after Iranian forces if they do these kind of things. So I think Iran is trying to get their proxies together to determine what would be the best and most effective attacks by their proxies and potentially themselves without being deterred or countered by any Israeli forces. So again, that's why everyone is on the edge to see which kind of force Iran will use and how they will use it.
 <br>[11:10:23]
 
BLITZER: Yes, very, very nervous situation unfolding. Right now, Israel's defense minister says a direct Iranian attack against Israel will be met. And I'm quoting him now with appropriate Israeli response against Iran. How worried are you General that this could start a much larger regional conflict unfolding in the Middle East right now?
 
HERTLING: Yes, I'm very concerned truthfully, Wolf, this is one -- like I said earlier, this is an inflection point. If this begins a fight between Iran and Israel, that is in each other's territory, then we're talking about a much wider conflict. And the U.S. may get involved in this. And that's what the administration is attempted to do is limit the conflict that we're seeing. So there, it doesn't come to this.
 
So yes, this is one of those things that I think. And the State Department is watching very closely, and hoping it doesn't come to blows between Iran and Israel because if it does, that's not going to be the limit of the operation.
 
BLITZER: It's an extremely dangerous moment in the Middle East right now. Because if there were a full scale war between Israel and Iran, it would make what's going on in Gaza look like relatively small potatoes because that war would be devastating to both sides. Israel's got enormous capabilities, so does Iran. And let's hope that doesn't necessarily unfold. Retired Lieutenant General Mark Hertling, thanks so much for joining us.
 
Other important news we're following right now at any moment, Vice President Kamala Harris will depart for Arizona to campaign for reproductive rights. It's a top issue in that key battleground state after the state's Supreme Court upheld, a Civil War era law banning nearly all abortions. This afternoon, Harris is expected to blame Donald Trump for that ban and argue that he'll sign a national ban if he wins in November.
 
CNN White House correspondent Priscilla Alvarez is in that Tucson getting ready for those meetings over there. Priscilla, what is the Biden campaign saying about the Vice President's trip today to Arizona?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, Wolf, they're seeing this as an opportunity to really hammer the threat that they say, former President Donald Trump faces or at least poses on health care and personal freedoms tying these unpopular abortion bans directly to him. Now, in prepared remarks that were shared with reporters, the vice president is expected to cast this court ruling from this week as, quote, one of the biggest aftershocks yet after the overturning of Roe and say that Trump, quote, is the architect of this healthcare crisis.
 
Now, of course, the Biden campaign sees the issue of abortion as a salient political issue, one that can mobilize voters, especially in the battleground state of Arizona. And just this week, they launched a seven figure ad buy on the issue, again, placing the blame squarely on Donald Trump. And the vice president in particular has been positioned over the course of the year to speak on reproductive rights.
 
She launched a reproductive rights freedom tour in January and has been crisscrossing the country on this issue. So her argument is going to be here in Arizona that this court ruling is the aftermath of Donald Trump and that there is risks posed if he is to take a second term. Now I spoke to a Democratic strategist who said look, this is ultimately another data point in a continuing argument by Democrats and ultimately, one that they're going to be bringing here to Arizona today with the Vice President.
 
BLITZER: All right, Priscilla Alvarez on the scene for us in Arizona. Thank you very much.
 
Still ahead this hour, the House Speaker Mike Johnson is heading to Mar-a-Lago down in Palm Beach, Florida. He and the former president will hold a joint news conference. They're there to try to draw attention to what they claim are election related issues.
 <br>[11:14:13]
 
And in just a few minutes, Congress is expected to vote on whether or not to reauthorize a key foreign intelligence surveillance law. I'll speak live with Democratic Congressman Steny Hoyer about that and more. Stay with us. You're live right here in the CNN NEWSROOM.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) BLITZER: Happening today, the House Speaker Mike Johnson will join the former President Donald Trump for a joint news conference at Mar-a- Lago about the upcoming presidential election. They plan and I'm quoting them now to draw attention to state proposals and lawsuits they claim will allow non-citizens to vote. But there is absolutely no evidence of that being a widespread concern.
 
And to add some context, Johnson was a key congressional figure in the former president's failed efforts to try to overturn the 2020 presidential election results. Just before the January 6th insurrection, the Louisiana Republicans spread a lot of misinformation that has been debunked repeatedly. Listen and watch this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA), HOUSE SPEAKER: You know the allegations about these voting machines, some of them being rigged with the software by Dominion, look there's a lot of merit to that. When the President says the election is rigged that's what he's talking about. That it was -- the fix was in. When you have, you know, a software system that is used all around the country that a suspect because it came from Hugo Chavez's Venezuela. And in Georgia it really was rigged it was set up for the Biden team to win. The system is set up for massive fraud.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:20:12]
 
BLITZER: And clearly, none of that was true. CNN's Kristen Holmes is in West Palm Beach, Florida for us right near Mar-a-Lago. Kristen, what more do we know about this news conference, and what Trump and Johnson wants to achieve?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, we are told that part of today will be them relitigating the 2020 election, which of course, as you just mentioned, is not that surprising, given the role that those of them took in trying to overturn the election back in 2020. But the other thing is talking about these voting non-citizens essentially trying to potentially put forward a bill or at least draw attention to this idea of non-citizens voting in the election.
 
As you noted, Scott, any kind of indication that this is a widespread problem, but on top of that there is actually a federal law that bans non-citizens from voting. But this issue has become somewhat of a rallying cry for Republicans. We know Donald Trump himself has actually gone as far as to say the Democrats want undocumented immigrants coming over the border so that they can help them in the 2024 election.
 
We also know that there has been a series of legislation, of lawsuits brought in various states to, quote unquote, ban non-citizens from voting. Again, federally that is already not allowed, which is what these two men, the elections that they deal with. However, I will give you some nuance here. There are some cities in various states who have pushed to have non-citizens vote in local elections. We're talking about school boards, but not a widespread issue. However, Republicans are talking about this, they are linking their pet issue of the election to what is a very real concern for voters this election cycle, immigration. They're stoking fear that it's going to impact the election. They are also saying that immigration is something that the Biden team wants, so they are using this in that way, in order to further their agenda, moving into 2024.
 
BLITZER: Kristen Holmes, reporting for us. So Kristen, thank you very much. You're going to have a very busy day today.
 
Minutes from now, embattled House Speaker Mike Johnson will try to untangle the latest embarrassment to his leadership in the House of Representatives. Just two days after Donald Trump led a Republican revolt to defeat a foreign spying bill, some Republicans reportedly have warmed to a revised version, and lawmakers are about to vote on it.
 
The stakes are considered huge, not just for Speaker Johnson but for national security. The intelligence community has warned that FISA, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, is essential, absolutely essential. They say to protect the United States from terror attacks. The law allows the U.S. to collect communications of non-Americans overseas without a warrant, and is due to expire a week from today. We have a lot to discuss.
 
I want to bring in Congressman Steny Hoyer. He's a Democrat from Maryland. Congressman, thank you so much for joining us. First of all, how confident are you that this revised bill will pass? And what are the stakes for the American people if it doesn't?
 
REP. STENY HOYER (D-MD): Well, I think you made clear what the stakes are and what the intelligence community says. They believe our intelligence gathering efforts will be deeply damaged at a time of great conflict in the world and great threat to the American people and to America itself.
 
So that I am very hopeful that the majority of members of the House having listened to the intelligence people, not the politicians, not the Biden administration, but the intelligence community professionals who have indicated that this bill is critically important to the national security and safety of our country.
 
It is ironic that the Speaker of the House, you have just indicated how important this bill on the floor is that the Speaker of the House is down as a conspirator with the former president of the United States to spread misinformation that clearly is a lie, is not true. Keeping beating this dead horse of the election was stolen after scores of courts have looked at the evidence and said they were absolutely wrong and that contention, but he's able to vote on this floor.
 
This is a critically important bill for the national security of our country. And he's down in Florida with the President continuing the President's bleeding and yelling about something that they should know and I think do know is untrue, so. BLITZER: Given all this Republican infighting, Congressman, on FISA, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, do you still have hope that Speaker Johnson will bring the desperately needed military aid package for Ukraine to the House floor for a formal vote anytime soon?
 <br>[11:24:59]
 
HOYER: If he doesn't it will undermine the security of the United States of America. We need to make sure that Putin understands that we are for freedom, we're against invasion. We're against the breaking of international law. And we're against the killing of people in their own country, because you want to take them over. If this doesn't come on the floor next week, we ought to raise hell. And we are raised this issue and have the American people see how irresponsible this is for the security of America, not just Ukraine, but of America and our NATO allies.
 
President have said, the Congress of the United States has said, we have an agreement with Europe if a single inch of their soil is invaded, Ukraine is not a member, but all the Europeans believe that Putin is not going to stop, our own people think he's not going to stop if we don't beat him, and make sure that Ukraine is not overrun by the invader, Russia.
 
So that this is a critical issue, the wheat for 450 plus days, we have not done anything to help our ally and friend and victim of this international aggression, 450 days have gone by in America has not helped. Now, very frankly, the President of the United States has in fact, had some authority to give some relief to give some weapons, they're running out of bullets and trying to defend their country with our help. But we have not helped them in a way that is absolutely essential so, he needs to put this bill next week. He needs to put it on next week.
 
BLITZER: Critically important to be sure.
 
HOYER: Absolutely.
 
BLITZER: Quickly, I want to shift gears very quickly to the Middle East. Our top story this hour sources telling CNN that the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu has convened his work cabinet to discuss readiness for a possible attack by Iran. What is your level of concern that Congressman, that the world could be on the cusp right now of a much wider potential conflict in the Middle East?
 
HOYER: Well, my own thought is that if we have been given a very strong message to Iran, that we will not allow Israel to be destroyed. That's Iran's objective. Very frankly, backing up historically, you can go to Chamberlain and Churchill. But you can go much more recently, in 2014, Russia invaded and occupied and took Crimea, a part of Ukraine, the West did little to send a message that you can't do that. They still occupy Crimea.
 
And as a result, they're now trying to occupy Eastern Ukraine and perhaps all of Ukraine. We cannot allow that to happen. And we've sent a message to Iran. The Secretary of State has sent that message. The President of the United States has sent that message. And very frankly, the Congress of the United States has sent that message. Iran, we will not stand for your invading Israel, for your attacking Israel.
 
And I think the President will stand by that. I think the Congress of the United States will stand by that. And I think we should take the action that is appropriate to not only inform Iran that there will be a grave crisis. But if they do something that grave consequences will occur. Do we stand at risk? I frankly think we stand at risk in either instance. And that's why I brought up the Crimea.
 
We did not respond forcefully. And as a result, the aggressor thought that they could keep on regressing that is Russia. That is Putin. And we learned that lesson in World War II as well to the tragedy of losses of millions of lives. So in this instance, we cannot allow Iran with impunity to damage one of our closest allies, the State of Israel.
 
BLITZER: It's clearly a very, very dangerous moment of the region right now. Congressman Steny Hoyer of Maryland, thank you so much for joining us.
 
HOYER: Thank you.
 <br>[11:29:16]
 
BLITZER: Coming up, sources now tell CNN that the Trump attorney who became a witness in the classified documents case has left the former president's legal team. We have details just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)