Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Harris Campaign Pushes For Another Debate Against Trump; Biden Under Pressure To Ease Restrictions On Ukraine; Tropical Storm Francine Weakens, Moves Inland. Aired 5-5:30a ET

Aired September 12, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:40]
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  It's Thursday, September 12th.
 
Right now on CNN THIS MORNING:
 
Fallout from the debate. Democrats cautiously optimistic. Republicans assessing the damage after Kamala Harris and Donald Trump faced off.
 
And --  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  In Springfield, they're eating the dogs, the people that came in. And it's a shame.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Baseless statement. 
 
Debate night's viral moment now has Ohio officials weighing in on the former president's fake claims. 
 
And delayed but still a go. The crew of the SpaceX "Polaris Dawn" mission about to embark on the first commercial spacewalk in history.
 
(MUSIC)
 
HUNT:  All right. Five a.m. on the East Coast. A live look at Capitol Hill on this Thursday morning. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us.
 
Kamala Harris and Donald Trump both looking to gain momentum after their showdown in Philadelphia, their first and possibly only debate ahead of the election. There was a brief break in the bitter campaign. Both Harris and Trump were in the same place yesterday, shaking hands again. This time it was at the 9/11 Memorial in Lower Manhattan.
 
But that break was short-lived. Trump later declaring victory in the debate and casting doubts about whether he was going to do another one. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  We're looking at it, but, you know, when you when you don't really necessarily have to do it a second time. So, we'll see. When you don't win, it's like a fighter. When a fighter has a bad fight, gets knocked out or loses the fight, the first thing he says is we want a rematch. 
 
So we won the debate according to every poll, every single poll. I think that -- are we going to do a rematch? I just don't know that. We'll think about it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  The Harris campaign doesn't need any more time to think about it. They do want another debate. Harris advisers say they're happy with how things went, but they still feel the race is extremely close, largely unchanged. 
 
The vice president is setting off on another tour of battleground some states today. She continues to call herself an underdog.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  We got some work to do because listen, I think that we think today was a good day, and it kind of was, but we have 56 days to go. And, guys, we're still the underdogs in this race. It's tight.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  All right. Joining us now to talk about all of it, Jackie Kucinich, CNN political analyst, Washington bureau chief for "The Boston Globe".
 
Jackie, good morning. 
 
JACKIE KUCINICH, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  Good morning. 
 
HUNT:  Happy to have you here to start us off this morning. 
 
I -- so the race, we're settling back into the final stretch of this race where both Harris and Trump planning to campaign in battleground states, we learned that there were 67 million people that tuned in to this debate. That's a 30 percent jump from the number who tuned in June. That's a lot of people who saw President Trumps struggle. 
 
But the fundamental question still remains whether or not this is going to fundamentally matter in what is ultimately going to be a very close race. 
 
KUCINICH:  So I think some of the issues that were discussed will matter. You're right. Anyone who's -- who tuned into that race probably didn't -- didn't end up coming away with new view of the former president. We'll put it that way. But I keep on focusing on the issue of abortion that was something,
 
 one of the few things that actually was substantively discussed during that debate and on like President Biden, Vice President Harris really does have a clear message on that issue. It's something that we know has moved votes in prior elections. And so that is -- that that is something that I think potentially could change. 
 
HUNT:  Well, you know, it's worth just stopping to remember that this is going to be our first presidential election since the fall of Roe versus Wade. We have some information obviously about how voters have reacted to this at the ballot box, we know that when it's a valid initiative, it's just a question about abortion policy. People seem to be overwhelmingly siding with abortion rights.
 
KUCINICH:  And that is in swing states. There are some of those in swing states.
 
HUNT:  Like Arizona, for example, has an initiative like that on the ballot, but we've also see it. We saw it help Democratic candidates in 2022 in the midterm elections, in blunting what many thought was going to be a red wave. There is a big question to me about how it impacts presidential politics, but it's this giant X factor that we have received before.
 
KUCINICH:  Yes, absolutely right. But we've -- we have seen as you -- as you rightly mentioned, we've seen these ballot initiatives.
 <br>[05:05:04]
 
I think they have a perfect record at this point. They have passed in every state no matter of, you know, red or blue. But the true test is presidential politics, whether it will -- people vote cross ballot, that's an open question. 
 
But in these critical swing state, you mentioned Arizona, I know Democrats are optimistic that that will bring -- that will drive more turnout for potentially Democratic candidates on down-ballot.
 
HUNT:  Yeah, for sure. So let's take a look at what some Republicans are saying about how Donald Trump performed in his debate. It's not. The reviews were not great. Watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR. (I), FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Vice president Harris clearly won the debate in terms of her delivery, her polish, her organization, and her preparation. 
 
TREY GOWDY, FOX NEWS HOST:  I know the president listed several people that he had fired during his administration, hey, may want to add to that the people that prepped him for the debate last night. He -- it was the land of missed opportunities. 
 
SEN. MIKE BRAUN (R-IN):  I don't think he should say stuff that may be may make it harder for people to vote for you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  So, some pretty blunt assessments there. RFK Jr., obviously an independent, not a Republican, but now a Trump supporter, acknowledging what a lot of people could plainly see.
 
KUCINICH:  When you show up in the spin room, which is where usually each candidate -- each campaign has their people come out and talk about how much they win, when that candidate shows up in the spin room, you know they didn't have a good night. That usually does not happen at these events. 
 
And listen, I don't think you could objectively as a Republican look at that debate, certainly the ones I spoke to yesterday, and say, yes talking about eating cat -- immigrants eating cats and dogs is really where we want to be as a party. No, they wanted Trump to be able to really take apart Vice President Harris and really focused on some of her flip-flops, some of the issues that did not happen because he took the bait again and again and again. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Jackie Kucinich for us this morning, Jackie, so grateful to have you. 
 
KUCINICH:  Thanks, Kasie. It's 50 something days left. Oh my gosh. 
 
HUNT:  Here we go.
 
All right. Up ahead here on CNN THIS MORNING: pressure mounting on the White House to give Ukraine the green light to use U.S. weapons inside Russia.
 
Plus, in just minutes, SpaceX's "Polaris Dawn" mission is going to make you can run of history in the first spacewalk by a civilian crew.
 
And with the race in a virtual coin toss, can vice president's debate performance change the course of the election? Democratic Congresswoman Debbie Dingell joins us live to discuss. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA):  I thought he looked silly. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I think President Trump actually won the debate because I think the American people didn't get a chance to hear at all how Kamala Harris can explain the pivoting of every single position that she's taken.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:12:18]
 
HUNT:  All right. Welcome back.
 
Pressure is building on President Biden to allow Ukraine to use American weapons to strike deep inside Russia. Secretary of State Antony Blinken meeting with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv on Wednesday. Zelenskyy is urging the U.S. and the U.K. to ease restrictions on the locations he can target inside Russian territory.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE:  We have adjusted and adapted as needs have changed, as the battlefield has changed. And I have no doubt that we'll continue to do that as this -- as this evolves.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Russia has been hitting key infrastructure targets in Ukraine with stepped-up rocket and drone attacks in recent weeks. Ukraine's foreign minister making the case, its time to respond decisively. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDRII SYBIHA, UKRAINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER:  We must remove all obstacles and limitations on the use of British equipment and American weapons against military targets in Russian territory.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  All right. Max Foster joins us live now from London. 
 
Max, good morning to you. Thank you so much for being here. 
 
So, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, warned the U.S. last week not to cross a red line with Russia. If the White House removes these restrictions that are currently being placed on Ukraine, what might Putin do? What might the reaction be? 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, it's very hard to figure out because the red lines keep moving, don't they, for America on what it allows Ukraine to do with its weaponry, what sort of weapons is allowed to use? 
 
So really looking to Moscow for that interpretation of when a red line is crossed. 
 
So we're talking here about the long-range missiles that America would supply. They wouldn't arrive in Ukraine for some time, for months, probably. So the debate is looking ahead. I think the Ukrainian foreign minister is really doing the groundwork for that, being able to use those missiles to fire into Russia. 
 
If Russia views that as a major escalation, there is cause concern about World War III. We're nowhere near that yet. But there is talk about in diplomatic circles about an escalation which would potentially prompt Russia to respond by firing into a NATO country in Europe, which is something that I don't think either side wants. So that's the biggest defense is whether or not Ukraine uses these long- range American weapons to attack inside Russia and how Russia reacts to that. 
 
And there's a big debate in diplomatic circles in NATO countries about that currently, Kasie.
 
HUNT:  Max, we saw this really unusual public meeting of the head of the CIA and the director of MI6 in London at this "Financial Times" festival where we actually heard them talking publicly about this. 
 <br>[05:15:02]
 
And the CIA director express some admiration for what Zelenskyy had done with these incursions into Kursk -- into the Kursk region Russia saying that that has sort of changed the game, but its also part of this possible escalation that you're talking about, no? 
 
FOSTER:  Well, I think is understanding Ukrainian position and how they are being expected to only defend and not attack into Russia, while Russia is on the attack. So it's seen by many people in intelligence circles as an unfair battle because Ukraine can defend itself properly without any targets within Russia. 
 
So that is the view, but at the same time, it's what point is this seen as NATO versus Russia? As opposed to Ukraine versus Russia.
 
HUNT:  Yeah, fair enough. 
 
All right. Max Foster for us this morning, Max, very to have you happy to have you back after you spent the last few days covering the royal family, but really appreciate it. Hope to see you tomorrow. 
 
FOSTER:  Thanks, Kasie.
 
HUNT:  Coming up next here on CNN THIS MORNING: NFL star Tyreek Hill demanding change. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TYREEK HILL, NFL STAR:  Gone, gone, gone. He got to go, man.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Why the Dolphins star receiver says the officer who yanked him from his car should be fired. 
 
Plus, history unfolding in space. "Polaris Dawn" astronauts about to attempt the first private spacewalk. We're going to show it to you live.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:21:05]
 
HUNT:  All right. Twenty minutes past the hour. Here's your morning roundup. 
 
We are just minutes away from the first all civilians spacewalk. SpaceX's "Polaris Dawn" team will well take their first steps toward history when two crew members make their exit from their crew Dragon capsule, hundreds of miles above the Earth. All four private citizens aboard will be exposed to the vacuum of space when the capsule's hatch doors open for their walk while in orbit. Their only protection from the risky and daring void, well, it will be SpaceX's brand new EVA space suits. 
 
Spacewalk is expected to last roughly two hours. CNN will provide live coverage throughout the hour. Don't miss it. 
 
And then there's this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  He got to go, man, because in that instance, right there, like not only did he treat me bad, you know what I'm saying. he also treated my teammates with, you know, disrespect.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Miami Dolphins wide receiver Tyreek Hill says the officer who detained him should be fired during a press conference yesterday. Hill also admitted that there are things he could have done differently the Sunday incident, but said that still doesn't give officers the right to treat him the way that they did.
 
Taylor Swift is adding to her record haul at the Video Music Awards last night. She won six of the 12 awards that she was up for, including best video. She's now won 28 VMAs in her career, more than any other artist. Fresh off her endorsement of Kamala Harris, she also encouraged people to register to vote right. 
 
All right. Time now for weather in Louisiana. More than 400,000 homes and businesses have been left without power overnight. Tropical Storm Francine causing flooding in parts of the state. The storm weakening as it moves inland, but a flood threat continues today across the Southeast, around 8 million people are still under a tropical storm warning. 
 
Let's get to our meteorologist, Allison Chinchar with more on this. 
 
Allison, good morning. 
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  And good morning, Kasie. 
 
Yeah. The video is coming in from yesterday, last night. They're very, very impressive. Again, you can see all of the heavy bands of rain just pushing all of that water, not only the water coming down, but the water coming in from the ocean. 
 
This is some of the storm surge here. You can see that wind just pushing all of that water inland on the streets, roadways, even parking lots. The system itself right now, down to sustained winds of 45 miles per hour, but the gusts are still up around 60. Those rain bands are really starting to spread inland Atlanta, Birmingham, Jackson, Mississippi, all getting rain from some of those outer bands on the north side of this system. 
 
And it's not moving very quickly, so it's going to take all of that moisture in, spread it elsewhere. Winds are starting to get a little bit calmer as we get towards the coast, but they're starting to go up the farther north you go. So were starting to see more of those 30, 40 mile per hour gusts.
 
Flood watches are in effect, not necessarily the focus along the coast, but are starting to spread a little bit farther to the north as that system also begins to make its way there. You also have wind advisories and effect for portions of Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. Tornado watch in effect right here along the Gulf Coast region of Florida and portions of Alabama. 
 
This is valid until 6:00 a.m. Central Time this morning, but the potential for tornadoes and damaging winds exists a little bit further north of there, just a little bit later into the day. So that tornado watch maybe extended and expand a little bit as we go say into the later morning and into the early afternoon hours -- Kasie.
 
HUNT:  All right. Allison Chinchar for us this morning -- Allison, thanks very much.
 
Still come after the break, one of the most daring missions to date, SpaceX sending civilian astronauts into orbit. In just moments, they're expected to push the limits even farther. 
 
Plus, a look at how an unsubstantiated rumor about migrants ended up as one of Donald Trump's talking points on the debate stage. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. MIKE DEWINE (R), OHIO:  This is something that came up on the Internet, and the Internet can be quite crazy sometimes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:29:40]
 
HUNT:  All right, 5:29 a.m. on the East Coast, but we're going to take a live look at outer space, where in just moments, SpaceX astronauts are planning to attempt the first civilians spacewalk in human history. 
 
We're going to keep an eye on it and we will show you what but all live as the mission unfolds this morning. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us.
 
Let's do some politics first. There is no truth to any of this. That is the word from Ohio officials after Trump's repeated false claims.