Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Sean 'Diddy' Combs Facing Seven New Lawsuits; Hyundai Motors India Makes Public Debut after Record IPO; U.S. Ramps Up Diplomacy in the Middle East; Far-Right Israeli Activists Call for Gaza Settlements; Kamala Harris Campaigns with Former Republican Congresswoman Liz Cheney; U.S. Pentagon Chief Announces $400 Million in Military Aid for Ukraine; Moldova Backs Joining E.U. by Very Narrow Margin. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired October 22, 2024 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[00:00:01]
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome. I'm Anna Coren. Ahead here on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
The U.S. ramps up diplomatic efforts in the Middle East marked with daily Israeli strikes in Lebanon and Gaza. A ceasefire deal does not appear to be in it. 
 
Two weeks from the U.S. election, both candidates are seeking to grab support where they can. Liz Cheney hits the trail with Kamala Harris while Donald Trump tapes an interview in a New York barbershop. 
 
And India's largest IPO, Hyundai Motors India makes its public trade debut. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Hong Kong, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Anna Coren. 
 
COREN: Lebanese authorities say an Israeli airstrike near the country's largest public hospital has killed at least four people. The IDF says it hit a Hezbollah terrorist target near the hospital, but not the hospital itself. 
 
A CNN analysis shows the area was not covered by evacuation orders from the Israeli military. The U.S. is turning up its diplomatic efforts to end the fighting in Lebanon and Gaza and secure the release of the remaining hostages. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is expected to arrive in Tel Aviv in the coming hours. 
 
Another U.S. envoy visiting Lebanon is urging stronger enforcement to the U.N. resolution that ended the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah war. Amos Hochstein met with the speaker of Lebanon's parliament on Monday. 
 
Israel has struck another branch of a financial institution in Lebanon, which the U.S. accuses of managing Hezbollah finances. Israel claims the group is hiding hundreds of millions in cash and gold under a Beirut hospital. 
 
Well, meanwhile in Gaza, huge crowds of displaced Palestinians left the Jabalya Refugee Camp, where more than 400 people have been killed in recent weeks. The U.N. says Israel has besieged the area and is forcing the evacuations. 
 
Well, far-right activists are calling for Israeli settlements in Gaza and the expulsion of the Palestinian population. They held a rally near the border on Monday. 
 
CNN's Jeremy Diamond was there. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There is much more to this right-wing conference on the Gaza border than just singing and dancing. Amid maps of Gaza and children's puzzles promoting the creation of Israeli settlements in Gaza, there are also calls for the mass expulsion of Palestinians. 
 
DANIELLA WEISS, DIRECTOR, NACHALA: As a result of the brutal massacre of the 7th of October, that Gaza Arabs lost their right to be here ever. So they will go to the different countries of the world. Then we must stay here. 
 
DIAMOND: But if you thought this conference was contained to the far- right fringe of Israeli politics, think again. Among the hundreds of settler activists, a dozen members of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's parliamentary coalition, including three ministers and several members of his own party. 
 
AVIHAI BOARON, MEMBER OF ISRAELI KNESSET: We want again to establish settlements in order to bring security to the south of Israel. OK? Without it, it won't be peace to the south of Israel, even to Tel Aviv. 
 
DIAMOND: The Israeli prime minister has said Israel does not intend to resettle Gaza, but some of his own ministers seem to think he can be swayed. 
 
Prime Minister Netanyahu has said that there won't be any civilian settlements in Gaza. You're a member of his governments. Why are you here? 
 
MAY GOLAN, ISRAELI MINISTER OF SOCIAL EQUITY: First of all, the Likud Party is a democratic party, a liberal party. We have variety of opinions. And I came here today from one reason, we have the right and these people have the right to put everything on the table, every tool is legitimate in order to protect yourself and save ourselves. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): That push to settle Gaza comes as Israel has killed more than 400 people in northern Gaza over just the last two weeks, according to Gaza officials, where tens of thousands have been forced to flee. And as the U.S. launches another diplomatic push to encourage Netanyahu to end the war in Gaza and strike such deal. 
 
But it's people like far-right National Security Minister Itamar Ben- Gvir, who are keeping Netanyahu in power, as I asked him what will become of Gaza's Palestinians, his response is stark. We will encourage emigration, he says. 
 
But on the outskirts of this conference, others including October 7th survivors are raising their voices, too, rejecting those who point to October 7th to justify settling Gaza. 
 
RON SHIFRONI, KIBBUTZ BE'ERI RESIDENT: They take advantage of the situation that happened in order to further their agenda and their agenda is not about security, it's about settlement. It's about conquest. 
 <br>[00:05:02]
 
We have to find some sort of negotiation with the other side. We can't first fully come inside and take land and stir up violence. 
 
DIAMOND: A call so far unheeded by those in power. 
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Be'eri, Israel. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: For more, I'm joined by Aaron David Miller, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and a former U.S. State Department Middle East negotiator. 
 
Aaron, great to see you. This is obviously Anthony Blinken's 11th trip to the region since October 7th. I dare say the situation is possibly worse than his last visit. What can he realistically hope to achieve? 
 
AARON DAVID MILLER, FORMER STATE DEPARTMENT MIDDLE EAST NEGOTIATOR: You know, right now no agreements for sure. He can press hard on the one issue where the United States has really had some success and needs to have more. Press the Israelis on humanitarian assistance, particularly into northern Gaza, which is an increasingly fraught situation. Needs to find out from the Israelis exactly what they intend to do, what they are doing in northern Gaza. That's clearly one objective. 
 
Number two, he needs to work with the Qataris and the Egyptians to try to identify or at least through cutouts, trying to learn who or what is going to replace Yahya Sinwar because without a decision maker, there won't be a negotiation. And finally, I think he's got to talk seriously to the prime minister about what is Israeli tactics and strategies are in Lebanon. So could be an important trip, but nobody ever lost money betting against breakthroughs in the Middle East and they're not going to do it this time around. 
 
COREN: U.S. special envoy Amos Hockstein is in Lebanon. He says the only way the Israel-Hezbollah conflict can be resolved is by enforcing an 18-year-old U.N. resolution. Do you agree? 
 
MILLER: Yes. As a final end state, that's right. But even Amos suggested that 1701 may have to be -- certain things might need to be added to 1701 to make it more effective. And right now, again, who's the negotiator? Hassan Nasrallah, the Israelis basically have killed most of the senior veterans. 
 
The Lebanese government? Maybe this is an opportunity to stand up and assert Lebanese sovereignty, but I think it's going to be very difficult, even though the Hezbollah threat -- organized threat to Israel is much reduced, Hezbollah still remains a very potent actor, far stronger than any other Lebanese factor. 
 
COREN: Well, staying with Lebanon, Israeli strikes on Hezbollah financial institutions, we've seen in recent days and then now claims that Hezbollah is operating beneath a major hospital in southern Beirut. That there's a large command center there, and that could now be targeted. 
 
Is Israel's limit expanding in Lebanon? 
 
MILLER: Yes, although on the ground they are still operating pretty close to the border. Follow the money. There's no question that that's critically important. Without money, Hezbollah can't pay new recruits, again provide social services even though the Shia constituency is badly in need of them, their legitimacy as the protector of the Shia community I think is really at stake. So the money staunching the money of, it's in gold or cash, destroying that is I think pretty basic. 
 
But again, you know, it raises the problem of civilian casualties. Some of these bank officers are on the ground floor residential buildings. This is an increasingly difficult problem, I'm afraid, and the Lebanese are paying the price. 
 
COREN: Settlers held a rally on to the border with Gaza with a number of Likud Party members attending. Tell us, what are Israel's plans for Gaza? Do they see a post-war Gaza or can Netanyahu be motivated to pursue this far-right rhetoric of settling the strip? 
 
MILLER: I mean, look, I think that Ariel Sharon who built to settlements in Gaza or at least acquiescent them in 2005 disengaged. The IDF does not want to re-occupy Gaza for a long period of time. But I have to say, given the fact that the Israelis or at least the prime minister, won't discuss the day-after arrangements, he's allergic to the PA, to the idea of Palestinian statehood, I think there's no alternative. 
 
The Israelis are not going to withdraw as long as there is not some credible security and projector. It's the same problem they have up north. 1701 implemented, it is fine, but if the LAF, the Lebanese Armed Forces, and UNIFIL can prevent a resurgence of Hezbollah, that I think the Israelis will want it. They've already made clear that they're going to insist not only on overflight rights but they're going to insist on freedom of action and maneuver in Lebanon as a part of 1701 and the Lebanese and most of the international community are not going to accept that. 
 
COREN: Aaron David Miller, always great to get your analysis. Thanks so much for joining us. 
 
MILLER: Anna, thanks for having me. COREN: Two weeks from today, American head to the polls to choose a
 
 new president and the two candidates are barnstorming across a handful of battleground states in a quest to pick up new support. 
 
Donald Trump spent the day in North Carolina where he visited the Hurricane Helene relief workers and criticized the White House response to the devastating storm. Asked about the arrest earlier this month of an armed man who allegedly threatened to attack FEMA employees, Trump replied you have to be able to speak. 
 
Well, FOX News released clips on Monday of an interview it did with Trump at a New York barbershop where Trump talked about how he plans to improve the nation's economy and to keep Americans safe from what he falsely says is a rampant migrant crime. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You have to get the criminals, the murderers. You got to get them out. You got to get them out fast before they prey on our people. And we're going to do two things. Interest rates are going down. It's going to be brought down, it's going to be brought down fast, but much more importantly and quicker, we're going to drill, baby, drill. You've heard that, right? Drill, baby, drill. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, Trump also spoke about his status as a Washington outsider, telling the barbershop workers how much he related to them and their lives. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: You guys are the same as me. It's the same stuff. We were born the same way. I grew up in Queens and all of that, I mean, you know, it's -- I had a great father. I had a father was a great guy. I know you people so well without knowing you, I know you so well. When I walked in here, I said this is home territory. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Kamala Harris is also hoping to attract new support from people disillusioned by Donald Trump. And on the campaign trail Monday, she brought in backup. Well, former Republican congresswoman Liz Cheney joined Harris in Michigan, urging Republicans and others who might not normally vote Democrat to vote their conscience on November 5th. 
 
Priscilla Alvarez has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Vice President Kamala Harris targeting a small but potentially decisive group of voters, Republicans turned off by former president Donald Trump. Harris is focused on vote rich counties in the key swing states of
 
 Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin, making an aggressive bid to win over independents and moderate Republicans. With Liz Cheney by her side. 
 
Harris started her day in the Philadelphia suburb of Chester County with a warning about the danger Trump poses. 
 
KAMALA HARRIS (D), VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: There are things that he says that will be the subject of skits and laughter and jokes. But words have meaning coming from someone who aspires to stand behind the seal of the president of the United States. 
 
ALVAREZ: The vice president's swing includes populous suburban areas like Waukesha County outside of Milwaukee. A longtime GOP stronghold where the Harris team believes they can make inroads. Biden lost the county in 2020, but performed better than any Democrat in decades. 
 
Harris is trying to appeal to those undecided and persuadable voters in places like Oakland County, Michigan, again outside of Detroit, including those who backed Nikki Haley in the Republican primary. 
 
HARRIS: I hope and I pray that we, the American people understand not only what is at stake for us in this election but how much we mean to the rest of the world. 
 
ALVAREZ: Monday's moderated conversations centered on a second Trump term serving as a warning to voters. Harris has been sharpening her attacks on Trump, frequently casting him as, quote, "unstable and unhinged," including taking aim at what she described as Trump's off script moments. 
 
HARRIS: Generally for the life of him cannot finish a thought. And he has called it the weave. But I think we here will call it nonsense. 
 
ALVAREZ: She's also resorted to near rapid response of her Republican rival including his profane criticism of her time as vice president. 
 
TRUMP: So you have to tell Kamala Harris that you've had enough, that you just can't take it anymore. We can't stand you, you're a shit vice president. The worst. 
 
ALVAREZ: Harris responding on MSNBC. 
 
HARRIS: It demeans the office, and I have said and I'm very clear about this, Donald Trump should never again stand behind the seal of the president of the United States. He's not earned the right. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:15:04]
 
ALVAREZ (on-camera): Now the vice president and her team are hoping that this message resonates, especially with white college educated voters. That is where they want to make more inroads to try to peel off votes from former president Donald Trump especially in these suburban areas in the key swing states. 
 
Now the vice president also indicating that reproductive freedom will also feature prominently in the following days, as that is another issue that they think that they can capitalize on as they try to shore up support going into election day. 
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, Brookfield, Wisconsin. 
 
COREN: I'm now joined by Jessica Levinson, professor of law at Loyola Law School, and the host of "Passing Judgment" podcast. 
 
Jessica, great to see you. Kamala Harris has been campaigning with Liz Cheney in Pennsylvania. Harris has vowed to not be a continuation of Biden's presidency. We are hearing that more and more from her. But with two weeks to go, will that message get through to undecided voters? 
 
JESSICA LEVINSON, PROFESSOR OF LAW, LOYOLA LAW SCHOOL: I mean, this is the question. At this point I think the conventional wisdom is that it has been and continues to be, and will be a coin toss election. And so Harris and Trump, they are both sending out every surrogate that they possibly can. I think the Harris campaign is focusing on surrogates a bit more to the swing states. 
 
We're not going to see campaigning anymore in the safe states, but to the swing states and the undecided voters there's going to be hundreds of millions of dollars spent on these voters. And as you said, for Vice President Harris, I think a big part of the strategy is saying that one bucket of the undecided voters may be more conservative women who do not like the Supreme Court's decision, for instance, in Dobbs that overturned Roe v. Wade, who don't like Trump and who might, if somebody like Kiz Cheney is there holding hands with Kamala Harris, might be willing to say, yes, I will cast my vote for her. Will it work, that we don't know yet.
 
COREN: Jessica, there are commentators out there who believed that these undecided voters are actually Trump supporters. They just don't want to admit that to pollsters. What are your thoughts about that? 
 
LEVINSON: So I think there are some undecided voters who are truly undecided. They are typically lower information voters. The indications we have this time around is that these tend to be younger voters. A significant percentage of them tend to be minority voters, black voters, Hispanic voters, where they really don't know or they really haven't made a decision. But then I think there is, to your question, there is a real phenomenon of people picking up the phone or responding to a pollster and not wanting to say, yes, I'm voting for foreign president Trump because they don't want to admit that. 
 
They think the pollster doesn't want them to say that. They certainly has been something that pollsters and political strategies have been talking about. And we've also seen former president Trump historically underperform in polls. So this is a phenomenon. We don't know how big it is. I wish we had specific answers, but yes, I think there's something that happens. COREN: And Jessica, we've been looking at images of Donald Trump. He
 
 was in North Carolina visiting communities devastated by Hurricane Helene. Once again, he was stoking fears about the invasion of undocumented immigrants. Let's take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: I will invoke the Alien Enemies Act of -- no, of 1798. Think of that. 1798. That's when we had real politicians that said we're not going to play games. We have to go back to 1798, 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: 1798. I mean, what is he on about? The scare-mongering, the misinformation, the lies about immigration. I guess my question to you is, is this working outside his base? 
 
LEVINSON: So first, he has to get his base out and then the question is how much is the discussion about immigration and the discussion about these old laws that we have not used in modern history, how much will that help? I just have to note that he's talking about the Alien Sedition Act. There's only one part of that act that still stands because the rest of it was either repealed or declared unconstitutional. 
 
What he's talking about specifically is using presidential power to try and deport or remove people from countries where he's going to say that we are either at war or we're experiencing an incursion. And he's talking about an expansion of presidential power and I don't know and we will not know, I hate to say it, for two to three weeks if this is a selling point for those swing voters or not. 
 <br>[00:20:03]
 
COREN: Whilst in North Carolina, Trump was asked about whether he's seen proof of election cheating. Obviously, early election is underway. Early voting, I should say, is underway in some states. He said no, but he does continue to sow doubts about the integrity of the election. Obviously, if he loses, then this election has been rigged. 
 
LEVINSON: Well, that's right. I think he's been very consistent about saying that the 2020 election was stolen from him despite the fact that, as we know, there was no systemic voter fraud. And that that was a free and fair election. And I think that he and many of his surrogates have set this up so that if he is not the clear winner, then he's saying the election is rigged. 
 
One thing that I think is important for people to know is that based on who votes and who votes earlier and when votes are counted, it's entirely possible that it will look like a better night for Republicans on election night. This is something called the red mirage and so, as time moves on, if things shift to Democrats that frankly just shows that our models of who votes earlier and when their votes are counted hold true and that we are systemically and methodically counting them as votes. But I think for former president Trump again has been extremely consistent on saying if he doesn't win the election it's rigged. 
 
COREN: Jessica Levinson, great to see you. Appreciate your time as always. Thank you. 
 
LEVINSON: Thank you. 
 
COREN: A surprise visit to Kyiv and a new infusion of military aid. Ahead, the latest U.S. commitments to Ukraine as Russia makes gains. Plus we're following two crucial votes in Moldova, and allegations of Russian election meddling. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: The U.S. Defense secretary makes a surprise trip to Ukraine and offers another $400 million in American military aid, which will include munitions, armored vehicles, and anti-tank weapons. The visit comes about two weeks before the U.S. presidential election. The results of which could have a sharp impact on the war. 
 
CNN's Clare Sebastian explains. 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, the U.S. Defense secretary's visit carries enormous weight for Ukraine, not because of the latest $400 million aid package that was announced or the optics and handshakes but because we're now two weeks out from U.S. election that Ukraine really sees as existential. 
 
Former president Trump's rhetoric has become increasingly negative towards Ukraine and his running mate J.D. Vance is actively opposed sending military aid. Now for his part, Lloyd Austin was there to offer some reassurance that the Biden administration remains committed and was doing what it could to frontload aid before the election. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: We'd move heaven and earth to help Ukraine and their inspiring coalition of more than 50 allies and partners continues to stand united to provide your country with the security assistance that Ukraine needs to prevail. 
 <br>[00:25:13]
 
Under President Biden's leadership the United States remains committed to keeping up this support. And so I'm pleased to announce today the commitment of a $400 million presidential drawdown package to provide your forces with additional munitions, armored vehicles, and anti-tank weapons. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: All of that will be welcomed, but this is a dangerous moment for Ukraine. Russia is inching forward on several fronts. It's counter-attacking in Kursk and it's launching almost daily aerial attacks. In fact, just hours before this visit, Russia launched an attack involving 116 drones and three missiles. It's also, according to Ukraine and South Korean intelligence, actively preparing now to bring up to 12,000 North Korean soldiers into the fight. 
 
Video provided to CNN by Ukraine appears to show North Korean soldiers speaking Korean and being issued with Russian military uniforms at a training ground near Russia's border with China. Now the Kremlin did not explicitly deny this was happening, simply saying its cooperation with North Korea was, quote, "not directed against third countries." 
 
Ukraine's president for his part is now urging a strong reaction from his allies. 
 
Clare Sebastian, CNN, London. 
 
COREN: More than two years after Russia's invasion of Ukraine triggered global condemnation, the Russian president is hosting a gathering of world leaders. The BRICS Summit will get underway in (INAUDIBLE), Russia in the hours ahead. 
 
And the group of leading emerging economies meant to be a counterweight to the West is expanding. Newcomers include Egypt, Iran, the UAE, and Ethiopia. The summit which runs through Thursday marks an opportunity for President Vladimir Putin to prove Russia still has global allies despite Western attempts to isolate it. 
 
The former Soviet country of Moldova is a step closer to becoming part of the European Union. During a pivotal referendum, Moldovans voted to join the E.U. by an extremely narrow margin with just 50.4 percent in favor. In a separate vote, the country's pro-E.U. president failed to secure enough support for an outright majority and will face a runoff next month. 
 
CNN's Anna Stewart has been covering both of these critical votes. 
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Moldova voting yes to the E.U. but by a wafer thin margin. It certainly wasn't the strong mandate that the incumbent president Maia Sandu had hoped for. She also didn't win an outright majority in the presidential election, which means she'll go for a second vote now on November 3rd. Speaking after results came in, the incumbent president spoke about the controversy around a Kremlin- backed organization buying votes. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAIA SANDU, MOLDOVAN PRESIDENT: Their target of buying 300,000 votes documented by state institutions and paying 150,000 people to vote shows we must look closely at where mistake were made and learn from this miserable attack on our sovereignty. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: Moldova has long been torn between Russian and Western influence. Russia's invasion of Ukraine really galvanized the E.U. movement and accession talks began in June of 2022. Now these talks will continue for the country appears divided, mired in corruption, which won't make the process any easier. 
 
Anna Stewart, CNN, London. COREN: Sean "Diddy" Combs' legal troubles take another turn for the
 
 worse. When we come back, the details on the music mogul's latest round of lawsuits. 
 
You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Welcome back. I'm Anna Coren. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM.
 <br>[00:31:20]
 
The latest development in the tragic death of musician and former One Direction member, Liam Payne. Buenos Aires police tell CNN a preliminary toxicology report is being delivered to the local prosecutor's office, but the final results have not yet been released. 
 
Payne died Wednesday after falling from the third floor of his hotel in the Argentine capital. He was 31 years old. 
 
The prosecutor's office suspects Payne was potentially experiencing some kind of episode due to substance abuse at the time.
 
New allegations against music mogul Sean "Diddy" Combs as he sits in jail awaiting trial on federal racketeering and sex trafficking charges. He denies any wrongdoing. 
 
But as CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister reports, the latest lawsuits he's facing allege that other celebrities were also involved.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Disturbing details emerging and seven new lawsuits filed against Sean "Diddy" Combs, including allegations that the music mogul assaulted minors and that other unnamed celebrities took part. 
 
One plaintiff, identified only as Jane Doe, alleges she was drugged and raped by Combs at a party after the MTV Video Music Awards in 2000, when she claims she was just 13 years old. 
 
The accuser says that a limo driver who allegedly worked for Combs invited her to an after party, telling her Combs liked younger girls, and she fit what Diddy was looking for. She says she was asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement when she arrived at the party and, after having one drink, she felt woozy and lightheaded and needed to lie down in a bedroom.
 
It wasn't long until she claims Combs, along with a male and female celebrity, entered the room. "Plaintiff was held down by Celebrity A who vaginally raped her while Combs and Celebrity B, a female, watched," according to the lawsuit. "Combs then vaginally raped plaintiff while Celebrity A and Celebrity B watched." 
 
The mention of unnamed celebrities marks the first time since the indictment that claims against Combs have accused other stars of engaging in alleged assault. Combs's parties were known to attract world-famous celebrities.
 
Another suit filed by a John Doe says, at 17 years old, he was invited to a party in 2022 in Manhattan with Combs. After one drink, he says he felt dizzy, weak, and confused, and witnessed multiple people engaging in group sex, including Combs and another artist he recognized.
 
Doe alleges that Combs later sexually assaulted him on a bed while others laid next to them, engaging in sexual activities. 
 
Attorneys for Combs did not respond to specific allegations in the new lawsuits but referred CNN to a previous blanket denial, stating "Mr. Combs has never sexually assaulted anyone -- adult or minor, man or woman." 
 
Over the weekend, Combs's team requested that the judge overseeing his criminal case block prospective witnesses and their lawyers from speaking out about their allegations outside of court, arguing that the public accusations will interfere with Mr. Combs's right to a fair trial. 
 
The latest lawsuits add to a growing web of legal troubles surrounding the music mogul, who now faces more than 25 civil suits. 
 
Combs remains in custody in New York as he awaits trial in May. 
 
WAGMEISTER: Now, it's not just the sheer volume of lawsuits that is noteworthy. As the investigation continues into Combs's criminal case, legal experts that I spoke with say that this continuum of lawsuits and these new accusers coming out every week can actually serve as a roadmap of sorts to prosecutors.
 <br>[00:35:13]
 
Recently in court, prosecutors said that it is possible that more charges or more defendants are added to this indictment. And it's possible that these lawsuits can provide some information to those prosecutors. 
 
Again, Combs denies all of these allegations, not just in these seven new suits, but in any lawsuit that he has faced. And he is fighting to be released from jail as he awaits his trial in May. 
 
Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Officials in Havana say power has now been restored to most of the capital, but service is believed to still be down in much of Cuba.
 
The island nation first lost power Friday when one of the country's major power plants failed. Since then, Cuba's power grid has collapsed four times.
 
Making matters worse, Cuba was hit by Hurricane Oscar on Sunday as millions of people had already faced days without power. People headed outside in the dark to escape the heat indoors and to protest the outages.
 
A much-anticipated debut in India's markets for Hyundai. Coming up, a look at how its stock is performing after the country's largest IPO ever.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Hyundai Motors India made its public trade debut just a short time ago after a record setting IPO. It was India's largest IPO ever, first offering $3.3 billion worth of shares. 
 
But demand was so great, they received $5.5 billion in bids. 
 
It's the world's second largest IPO this year.
 
Well, CNN's Mike Valerio is following the story from Seoul. Mike, good to see you. How's the market reacting? 
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, trading is a little lower than expected, so it may not be a smooth road for Hyundai, because the rollout was a little weaker than expected with retail investors. We'll get to all that in a second. 
 
But I think the larger picture and why people should care about this story, if you're not involved in this IPO, if you're outside of Asia, is really this is a story about the astounding rise of India's economy and how India is accelerating, in a few interesting ways, ahead of the Chinese economy. 
 
So, let's put this all in perspective and tell you how we got to where we are here today. A big day for Hyundai, headquartered here in Seoul. India now ranks, Anna, as the world's third largest auto market with the company of the United States and China leapfrogging over Japan. 
 
And this is expected to be the largest IPO in Asia for the year. 
 
So, according to analyst reports, what Hyundai is trying to do with this IPO, in very broad brushstrokes, is make a boatload of money with this IPO and use that cash to expand its presence in India and really try to narrow the gap, Anna, with India's largest automaker, which is Suzuki's subsidiary in India. 
 <br>[00:40:09]
 
So, try to close that gap and also try to make its India operation a real bastion of exporting EVs and SUVs to the wider region. 
 
So, all stories in Asia, so many of them lead to China. Why not expand to China? A lot of interesting analysis that we're hearing in Seoul, also quoted in the pages of "The Financial Times" a few days ago.
 
Analysts are saying that Hyundai is really trying to look for a market alternative to China. We have a government that is giving out generous subsidies to domestic automakers.
 
So, from Hyundai's point of view, you know, that policy by Beijing and other regional governments, that's crowding out a lot of the international automakers out of the Chinese market. So, from Hyundai's point of view, it makes sense to expand its operation in India, where it's still pretty relatively cheap to manufacture things. You have a burgeoning middle class, an expanding urban consumer class, as well. 
 
So, we're going to see how this stock motors throughout the day. Weaker demand than expected with retail investors, people like you and me, Anna, not people like BlackRock or the government of Singapore; put a lot of money into this IPO. Vanguard, as well as Fidelity. 
 
So, we're going to see how this performs throughout the day. But those wider themes, those larger themes about the future of India's economy stay true, remain true, regardless of how the stock performs today, Anna. 
 
COREN: Mike, I'll let you go so you can buy your shares. 
 
Mike Valerio, joining us from Seoul. Many thanks.
 
The Walt Disney Company will soon see another changing of the ranks with their fourth board chair in just over three years. Morgan Stanley veteran James Gorman will take over the post at the start of 2025 after current chair Mark Parker, who served on Disney's board for nine years. 
 
Gorman's priority will be to find a replacement for current CEO Bob Iger, who returned to the position after a brief hiatus. The company says it will announce a new chief executive in early 2026.
 
And before we go, the bear hug, the group hug, and other hug named embraces can be as long or short as you want them to be, but now we know the max time limit of the goodbye hug, at least at one New Zealand airport. 
 
A new sign imposes a three-minute limit on hugs in its drop-off zone, adding, "For fonder farewells, please use the car park." 
 
Well, the airport CEO told New Zealand Radio that the move is meant to help keep traffic moving and defended the introduction of the signs, pointing to a study suggesting a 20-second hug is enough to get a burst of the so-called "love hormone." 
 
Twenty seconds. Yes, I think that works.
 
Thanks so much for watching. I'm Anna Coren. WORLD SPORT is next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:39]
 
(WORLD SPORT)