Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Harris and Trump Tout Economic Records; Trump and Harris Fight for Pennsylvania; Bryan West is Interviewed about Swift and Kelce. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired September 06, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[06:30:00] 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Across the Florida panhandle as well. 
 
Lots of rain. Kind of the elongated frontal system that's going to eventually spread more precipitation through the course of the weekend. And from Atlanta southward, through the Florida peninsula. But again, the heaviest rainfall right near the coast. 
 
The other big story, the heat out west. And this is just oppressive. In Phoenix, we reached a high of 116. That is the highest September record, or at least tying that. Incredible to see. Los Angeles, we think you'll top 100, which is the first time in two years. And the heat continues across the northwest where a lot of people don't have air conditioning. Portland, Oregon, that's a great example. You reached 102 yesterday. Uh.
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: Yikes. Yikes.
 
All right, Derek Van Dam for us this morning.
 
Derek, I always grateful to have you. Thank you so much. 
 
VAN DAM: All right. 
 
HUNT: Still ahead here on CNN This Morning, season two of the Swift- Kelce show kicking off in Kansas City. There was also a football game. Taylor Swift, once again, spotted at the Chief's game supporting her man. But there was some controversy recently involving a possible breakup. We're going to get to the bottom of that.
 
Plus, Donald Trump's visit to Arlington National Cemetery is still under scrutiny as new details about that scuffle between campaign officials and a worker at the cemetery come to light.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was there. I didn't see any altercation. This is the new hoax. I didn't see anything. You know what I -
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:36:01]
 
HUNT: All right, just 60 days to go now until Election Day. The Harris-Walz campaign releasing new fundraising numbers a short time ago. $361 million in August, nearly triple what the Trump campaign raised Harris now has more than $400 million in cash on hand.
 
And while Election Day may be 60 days away, voting is about to begin. North Carolina is scheduled to start sending out mail-in ballots today. 
 
And with the big debate just four days away, both the Harris and the Trump campaigns are focusing on the top issue for voters, the cost of living.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And I'm very proud of the work that we have done that his brought inflation down to less than 3 percent. The work that we have done to cap the cost of insulin at $35 a month for seniors.
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: For four straight years I fought for American workers like I would fight for my own family. I took care of our economy, like I would take care of my own company.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: All right, panel is back. 
 
Jeff Zeleny, this is a significant fundraising haul for the Harris team. Can you help us put it in context and understand where she stands, especially in comparison to the Trump campaign?
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Looked, that cash on hand money is real. It's $404 million for the Harris and Democrats, compared to about $295 million Trump and Republicans. It is significant. There's no question that fundraising has been one of the metrics here, one of the signs of enthusiasm and excitement for the Harris campaign since she jumped into this. There's just no doubt about it.
 
Money is not going to win this campaign. It could lose it if you don't have it, obviously. So, this is going to allow them to keep fundraising and open offices and have a very large grassroots campaign. But at the end of the day here, money is not their biggest challenge. Convincing voters and undecided, you know, to come her way is. 
 
But look, I mean, what they've been doing - I was talking to a - fundraising official last evening as we were looking into these numbers. And what is extraordinary now, it's the grassroots money that's coming in. That was something that was really not coming in during the Biden era, I guess, of this campaign as much. The big money, it's generally always there. But what they believe is - is so important here is the grassroots money, that a third of all these donors, 1.3 million donors were making their first contribution since she became the nominee. That means that they can give money again and again.
 
But again, money is not likely to win this election.
 
HUNT: Yes, Brad Todd, I mean, how concerned should the Trump campaign be about this? I mean it's obviously different than when they were running against Biden.
 
BRAD TODD, PARTNER, ONMESSAGE INC.: Well, you know, I've been in politics long enough to remember when Democrats used to complain all the money was on the Republican side. And Democrats now outraise Republicans in every race. Every Senate race, every House race, and the presidential race, Democrats will have more money because wealthier people in America now skew to the left.
 
You know, there's a need for it. I mean this weekend Pittsburgh Steelers kickoff there season in what is arguably the most important market, the most important state of Pennsylvania. One television ad will go for $80,000 just in Pittsburgh in that game. So, they're both going to need it. But, I - Jeff, I think they both will have plenty.
 
HUNT: Yes. 
 
So, the - part of what we saw yesterday, and we played a little bit of it there, was Donald Trump making this speech at the New York Economic Club. And one of the issues that has come into focus here is childcare costs. And Trump had - was asked specifically what legislation he would support to lower the cost of childcare. 
 
I want to show you what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I have to stay with childcare. I want to stay with childcare. But those numbers are small relative to the kind of economic numbers that I'm talking about, including growth. But growth also headed up by, what the plan is that I just - that I just told you about, we're going to be taking in trillions of dollars. And as much as childcare is talked about as being expensive, it's, relatively speaking, not very expensive compared to the kind of numbers we'll be taking in (ph).
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[06:40:01]
 
HUNT: Elliot Williams, the Harris campaign posted this with no comment, this clip.
 
ELLIOT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yes. 
 
HUNT: Why would they have done that? WILLIAMS: Well, I think a couple things. Sometimes it's better to just
 
 take the "L" and say I don't know. And you probably - you could probably just get out of a clip like that.
 
Number two, if Kamala Harris had given the same answer, that would have blown up right-wing media in terms of, oh, you know, vice president engages in more word salad. And we know how that would have gone. That was an incoherent answer from someone who, frankly, at this point, ought to have his talking points down.
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
ZELENY: Even separately though, that, I mean, the actual issue of childcare is an issue to Republicans and Democratic voters alike. 
 
MEGHAN HAYS, FORMER BIDEN WHITE HOUSE DIRECTOR OF MESSAGE PLANNING: Yes. 
 
WILLIAMS: And swing voters. Yes.
 
ZELENY: That's not a partisan issue. 
 
WILLIAMS: Yes.
 
ZELENY: It is a thing. So, he's - he didn't answer (INAUDIBLE).
 
HAYS: And working class people who are, you know, the same with groceries and gas and childcare, it's all part of how people are affording to live. And if people want to continue to knock Kamala Harris for bringing down the cost of groceries and inflation, then we also need to address childcare, because that also is a huge costs for families. And if you don't want to address that, then that's another problem of why then are you attacking reproductive freedom? So it's - all these things are tied together.
 
HUNT: Brad Todd, could you make sense of what he had to say there? 
 
TODD: You know, I think what he's talking about is the fact that childcare actually is - could be provided at a fairly cheap rate. I'm going to give him a policy idea to flesh it out right here on CNN.
 
HUNT: OK. Go right ahead.
 
WILLIAMS: Oh, yes.
 
TODD: I - we have a lot of daycares and childcare facilities in this country are based in churches. They're also in communities with a lot of low-income people. I think Donald Trump should flesh that out today and say, we're going to provide - give states the ability to provide a voucher, but it has to be able to go to religious institutions as well. Watch how fast Democrats run from that if he does it.
 
HAYS: Yes, because you're putting values on someone that you don't have - you don't have to have your kids watched by people over (ph) a religious thing. There's a separation of church and state. That's putting values on people. TODD: But you could go to a - you could go to a secular childcare facility as well.
 
HAYS: But that's - I just don't think you should be putting - imposing values on somebody for their childcare. Just like J.D. Vance said that the grandparents should watch and the aunts and uncles. 
 
TODD: It'd be your option.
 
HAYS: Like, again, this is coming from a place of privilege that a lot of people in this country do not have. 
 
TODD: It'd be your option. But if Democrats and Republicans want to come together, you're going to have to see some compromise like that, where religious institutions are involved. 
 
HAYS: And we wanted (ph) separation of church and state.
 
ZELENY: But he still didn't answer the question.
 
HAYS: Correct.
 
TODD: I'm trying to help them here.
 
HUNT: I was going to say, I'm unclear what this has to do with tariffs.
 
ZELENY: Gotcha.
 
WILLIAMS: Just say I don't know. Dude, just say you don't know and get out of there. I -
 
HAYS: Yes.
 
HUNT: So - well -
 
ZELENY: The whole economics speech is -
 
WILLAIMS: Yes, I know.
 
ZELENY: You know, was - was something.
 
HUNT: What else would you highlight in that speech, Jeff?
 
ZELENY: I mean the tariff thing, like that is one thing that - I mean there actually is a policy debate that's going on right now out in the country. He's talking about the economy a day after the vice president was. But his proposals, you know, also have to be looked at a little more carefully and they're inflationary in many respects. But the - the - the tariff aspect of - of that is something that will be probably come up at the debate on Tuesday I would seem.
 
It did not seem to be that thorough of an economic speech I guess to be charitable.
 
HUNT: Fair enough. All right, coming up next here, in just four days Kamala Harris,
 
 Donald Trump will meet in Philadelphia for the debate everyone has been waiting for. Do follow CNN for complete coverage, exclusive analysis before and after the debate. The ABC News presidential debate simulcast is Tuesday, 9:00 Eastern, right here on CNN.
 
And straight ahead here on CNN THIS MORNING, that viral document circulating online that hinted at a high-profile breakup. It's been called fake. But are Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce contractually obligated to split on September 28th? We will explain that controversy, next.
 
Plus, we're going to talk to Michael Smerconish because it's Friday about how the road to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue runs straight through our shared home state of Pennsylvania. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:48:03]
 
HUNT: All right, 47 minutes past the hour. Here's your morning roundup. 
 
Boeing's troubled Starliner spacecraft is finally headed home. The capsule is scheduled to undock from the International Space Station later today before a touchdown in New Mexico. Its crew, however, will remain aboard the ISS until February. Their original mission, which began in June, was just supposed to last a little bit over a week. So much for that.
 
All right, sources tell CNN that several top officials in New York City Mayor Eric Adams' administration had their phones seized by federal investigators yesterday. Investigators also served a subpoena to one of Adams' special advisors. Sources confirm that this is not connected to the bureau's investigation into Adams' campaign fundraising.
 
And tonight's the night the Philadelphia Eagles face the Green Bay Packers and Sao Paulo, Brazil. It is the NFL's first regular season game in South America and its first Friday night game in more than five decades. Huh.
 
All right, as we've been noting this morning, we're just two months out from the election. The first ballots set to be mailed out this afternoon. And this race is so incredibly close. CNN's latest polling shows an incredibly tight race across six battleground states. And it is closer - this - no - it is so close in Pennsylvania, it is the closest of these contests. The keystone state, of course, the biggest prize for both campaigns. Trump and Harris both at 47 percent in our battleground poll. Pennsylvania also one of the keys to the Senate. Incumbent Democrat Bob Casey is polling, according to this, tied with Republican challenger Dave McCormick. 
 
Here was Democratic Vice Presidential Candidate Tim Walz, who was campaigning in Erie, PA, yesterday, taking a page from the state's popular Democratic governor. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN), VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: It's very clear that our opponents in this race see the world differently. Now, I'm going to quote, which I think is a brilliant quote, by your great governor, Josh Shapiro. 
 <br>[06:50:00]
 
He often says, and I hear him say this, whenever Donald Trump's talking about America, he (EXPLETIVE DELETED) talking America. He does not believe in the promise of America, and he continues to put this country down.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Now is CNN political commentator Michael Smerconish. He is the host of CNN's "SMERCONISH." 
 
Michael, wonderful to see you. Thank you so much for being here. 
 
Let's talk about Pennsylvania. I mean, honestly, we could probably do every political segment from here until Election Day on Pennsylvania because, at the end of the day, it might be the entire ball game. 
 
What are you hearing? What are you seeing? What do you think it's going to come down to here? 
 
MICHAEL SMERCONISH, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: So, to your point about the -- good to see you, by the way. Thank you, Kasie, for having me back.
 
HUNT: Of course.
 
SMERCONISH: To your point about just how close the race is. Real Clear Politics, as of this moment in time, says, 47.2 to 47.2 in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. It can't get much more close than that. Tim Walz, Governor Walz, why is he an Erie? Because Erie, is you well know, is one of those bellwethers. If you win Erie, Pennsylvania, you're going to win the commonwealth. And if you win the commonwealth, chances are you're going to win the presidency.
 
Can I put on your radar the concern that I have about where this is all going because the pre canvassing process doesn't begin until 7:00 a.m. on Election Day. They can't touch those mail-in ballots until that morning at 7:00 a.m. This is one of the reasons why in 2020 you'll remember Wolf Blitzer called the race the Saturday after the election. And I'm really concerned that if it's, in the end, as close as people envision, and if it comes down to Pennsylvania, that we could have a process where there's a window of ballot counting where a lot of disinformation, misinformation is spread, not only by domestic forces, political parties, one perhaps more than the other, but look at what the Russians and the Iranians are up to. There's like this perfect storm that's brewing. And if I'm hoping for one thing, as we are nine weeks out, it's that there be a decisive outcome, one way or the other, so that we're not having to pick up the pieces and figure out who's telling the truth.
 
HUNT: Yes, Michael, I mean, what do you think the likelihood is of that at this point? I mean, candidly, with - when Biden was at the top of the ticket, this race was increasingly becoming not a close one. It seemed clear that Trump was on track to win. That's not the case now. And we've heard Trump start to use some of the language that honestly it has echoes to what we heard him saying back in 2020 as that week, basically, was unfolding between Election Day and that call on Saturday.
 
And, yes, I barely slept that week, as I'm sure you didn't too, as we were all covering it. There for definitely some signposts that show that we may be facing a period where, again, there are - it's not just people on the outside, but potentially one of the major candidates themselves.
 
SMERCONISH: Totally. And I think it becomes incumbent upon all of us in the media, those of us with platforms, to educate the public about the fact that if there's not a decisive outcome that night, it doesn't mean that there's been shenanigans involved. We remember the red mirage and the blue wave, right? Because so many more Democrats were voting by absentee ballot in that 2020 cycle. And many of us tried to educate people, don't go looking at the initial returns as they come that Tuesday night and think that's the victor because this thing is going to have to play itself out. 
 
I don't think there will be as much mail-in voting in this cycle as that cycle, because that was the pandemic. I might be wrong because more Republicans are now receptive to voting by mail. But this is a really important issue. And I think for the next several weeks the media need to be talking about it so that people understand and are prepared to watch these events play out. 
 
HUNT: Michael, since you are so focused on Pennsylvania, and we could all be watching it on election night, you mentioned a red mirage. Are we going to see a red mirage, a blue mirage initially out of Pennsylvania?  
 
SMERCONISH: I think that we could see a red mirage because more will probably be Democrats who are - who are waiting and voting by mail. Republicans who are doing so old school, showing up on Election Day. So, the initial burst, you know, there's going to come that moment, nine weeks, I guess, from this past Tuesday, when we're watching CNN, and there will be the big board and John King's going to be standing in front of that map. Just wait. Hang in until the events play out. 
 
And by the way, one of the thing - and it's Pennsylvania focused - what does this all mean if it's really 47.2 to 47.2? It means that Tuesday night is damn important. And by the way, where's that debate taking place? In Pennsylvania.
 
HUNT: Obviously. And where is Kamala Harris parked? Pittsburgh, while she prepares. 
 
SMERCONISH: Right.
 
HUNT: Michael Smerconish, so grateful to have you. See you next Friday, I hope. And don't miss "SMERCONISH."
 
SMERCONISH: OK, Kasie. Thank you.
 
HUNT: All right. And, oh, we've got a new book for you, "Smercomics." It's available for preorder now. 
 <br>[06:55:01]
 
I love it. I'll have to - send me one.
 
SMERCONISH: Thank you.
 
HUNT: And for our viewers, of course, "SMERCONISH" is tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m. Eastern right here on CNN. Don't miss it.
 
All right, let's turn now to this, which is, let's be real, the thing everybody's actually talking about. It combines two of my favorite subjects, Taylor Swift, football. And, of course, that world, those two worlds, colliding once again last night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Runs away to find space. Fires on the run to Kelce to the 30 yard line. A perfect play for Patrick Mahomes to set the Chief's record for most passing yards as they -
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Oh, look, there she is. And there was a fearless Travis Kelce and his Kansas City Chiefs. They clinched this win by literally a tow last night. It was a thrilling season opener against the Baltimore Ravens. Kelce's girlfriend, Taylor Swift, the one and only, was there to celebrate with him despite rumors that have been swirling online. There is this viral picture of a document that it seems to outline a PR plan for how to handle a breakup between these two that was allegedly planned for September 28th. Kelce PR team, however, shaking off those allegations. They call the document false and fabricated.
 
Joining us now is Bryan West, who is "USA Todays" Taylor Swift reporter. He basically has the dream job.
 
And, Bryan, I'm so happy to have you on the show. I've been wanting to meet you since we all learn that this was going to be a job that you were going to take. Can you help us understand what is going on here? Because there also have been reports of like a proposal. So, is it - are they breaking up or are they getting married? Like, which one? 
 
BRYAN WEST, TAYLOR SWIFT REPORTER, "USA TODAY/GANNETT": Good morning, Kasie. Thank you for having me on. 
 
They went public about a year ago. If you remember, it broke the internet that time during the Chicago Bears in Kansas City Chiefs game. She showed up next to Donna Kelce. And that is when we saw Taylor returning to the NFL. A lot of Swifties last night were joking that this is season two of Taylor Swift goes to Arrowhead. That's premiering on television. I can tell you though, the breakup contract, as you said, has
 
 completely been shut down. This all originated on Reddit. There was a photo that was posted there of an alleged contract. That post has since been deleted. Travis Kelce's PR team has come out. They've definitively said that this is fake, this is fraudulent and never originated in our office. 
 
And I think you can see, even just looking now, at watching the games, watching her hug his parents, watching her point to him and him point to her, it really is this rom-com (ph). I think most people that are watching this would tell you of proposal as much more emanate that a breakup.
 
HUNT: Yes. Well, I think there are going to be a lot of people that are very happy that that would be - that is your reporting on what is going on here. Bryan, one of the other parts of this is there is this kind of persistent swirling about whether the relationship in - is one that is totally for the PR benefit of both of them, because one of the members of Kelce's PR team has apparently acknowledged doing that in other instances, media manufacturing of a romance to try to accomplish some other goal. 
 
Do you see any truth to that here or, as you have been kind of reporting on this, like, how do you understand that piece of it?
 
WEST: When it comes to their relationship, anything that's been a rumor has been just that. It's been speculative. It's been conjecture that this might be a PR stunt. I've seen over the past year that they have showed up, they've supported each other. I was on the road internationally, watched him in Paris, watched him in Australia. Just seeing him dance long to all of her music, again, points or her, she points to him. She's never done this in the past where she dedicates songs and mash-ups. You can tell they're for him. On the 87th show, she just said, hey, it's my 87 show, which is his number. And all the wristbands lit up in bright red. The crowd went wild. There's just - there's never been anything to suggest that this is not real. It - it's just been wonderful to watch them, especially when it comes to football. 
 
And I know you had said September 28th was the alleged date. I anticipate she's going to be at the September 29th game against the Los Angeles Rams - or Chargers. So, we're going to have to see.
 
HUNT: All right. You heard it - you heard it here first. Bryan West, I clearly am in the wrong line of work covering politics. I - you win - you win the game of life. Thank you so much for being here. I hope that you'll come back. We would love to have you back.
 
WEST: Look forward to it.
 
HUNT: Guys, I have to say, I'm obsessed with - I'm obsessed with all of this, which is why we're talking about it at all. Because it's really like the biggest - I mean, first of all, the boots. Do we have a picture of the boots, guys. She wore these boots to this game last night. I'm glad that Bryan thinks that there on track for marriage.
 
WILLIAMS: Yes, but - but if it seems that they're breaking up, I guess they might have had a cruel summer. 
 
HUNT: They might have.
 
ZELENY: Oh.
 
HUNT: Who else - who else has one.
 
WILLIAMS: Oh - oh, come on, you said we were talking about Taylor Swift. Look what you made me do.
 
ZELENY: Oh, man.
 
HAYS: I was - she's originally from Pennsylvania. There's 60 days out to election. I mean if it goes through Pennsylvania, then we can - might have an endorsement soon.
 <br>[07:00:04]
 
ZELENY: One of the highlights of my summer was seeing Taylor Swift. The summer I finally saw what it was all about in Lisbon. It was a very cool experience. 
 
HUNT: Oh, you went to (INAUDIBLE).
 
ZELENY: My question for her, as a political reporter, what is she going to do in the next 60 days, politically speaking.
 
HUNT: Could she win the election for Harris if she endorsed Harris, Brad Todd?
 
TODD: I think she already - her fan base is already pretty much for Harris, I think. I think she's already got that vote locked up.
 
HUNT: Do you think she could activate people who otherwise wouldn't vote is actually I think the question.
 
TODD: Well, I don't know, low - low-income, I mean low propensity voters are the - the target from here on out. But, you know, Taylor's been pretty political already. I think - I think her fans already get to cues. They read everything she does.
 
HUNT: All right. Well, it's 7:00 a.m., so, unfortunately, we have to cut our Taylor Swift conversation short. Thanks to our panel. Thanks to you for joining us. I'm Kasie Hunt. Don't go anywhere, "CNN NEWS CENTRAL" starts right now.