Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Trump Wins South Carolina GOP Primary as Haley Vows to Stay in Race; Ukraine Marks Second Anniversary of Russia`s Invasion; Scientists Confirm Discovery of a New Species in Japan. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired February 27, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: What`s up lovely people. Let`s get our energy up, up, up, and make this a terrific Tuesday. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, 
 
 where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. 
 
Tomorrow`s #YourWordWednesday, where we use your word in the show to help boost our vocabulary. So submit those words in the comment section on my 
 
 most recent post @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok, along with the definition, your school name, your name, the city, state, teacher`s name, 
 
 if you like. Rise up.
 
Let`s start in South Carolina, where former president Donald Trump won the Republican primary on Saturday. Trump triumphed with the nearly 60% of the 
 
 vote. He has now swept every 2024 GOP nominating contests so far and is quickly closing in on clenching the Republican nomination ahead of 
 
 November`s presidential election. After this series of decisive wins, Trump is optimistic.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I have never seen the Republican Party so unified as it is right now.
 
(CHEERING &amp; APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Meanwhile, the former president`s Republican rival Nikki Haley is vowing to stay in the race, despite the losses, including this South 
 
 Carolina race, which is her home state, where she served as governor for six years, until 2017. 
 
Haley says she`s committed until Super Tuesday, that`s March 5th. It`s a hugely important presidential primary election day with more states voting 
 
 than any other date. 15 states, one territory in all. Haley says she doesn`t believe Trump can beat president Joe Biden in the November general 
 
 election.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Nearly every day, Trump drives people away.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: For more on what these latest events mean for the former president`s campaign strategy going forward, here`s our Kristen Holmes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I`ve been talking to a lot of Trump`s campaign advisors this morning and they say it is time to move on 
 
 to the general election, regardless of whether or not Nikki Haley is still in the race. Four resounding primary wins. Every contest on the horizon, 
 
 Trump is favored. And they believe that they need to have a campaign reset ahead of November to start looking towards that general election. 
 
Now, to be very clear, this is not a Donald Trump pivot. He`s not going to stop his messaging. He`s not going to stop being who he is. And his 
 
 campaign is very aware of the candidate that they have. This is about campaign infrastructure and about strategy. They want to build out their 
 
 operations in critical battleground states. We`re talking about Michigan, Arizona, Georgia. They also want to shift their messaging away from primary 
 
 messaging and towards President Joe Biden. 
 
Now, you saw some of that shift in messaging from the former president himself in his speech when he didn`t mention Nikki Haley once. But I am 
 
 going to put forward a very important caveat, which was talking to Trump`s senior advisors. They know that they cannot control if he does that again. 
 
 They are trying to keep him on message. They are telling him it`s important to focus on President Joe Biden. But again, they can`t control what he 
 
 says, and he`s going to say what he feels and what he thinks. 
 
Now, in addition to all of that, we did see in the election last night, there were some warning signs for Donald Trump in a 2024 general election 
 
 rematch with President Biden, particularly among independent voters. His team knows that. His team knows that he is a very polarizing figure, and 
 
 that is part of the reason why they believe it is important for them to start shifting towards that general election. To start going through that 
 
 data, to start coming up with a game plan to take on Joe Biden before November.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Pop quiz, hot shot. Who is the only president to leave the White House and return for a second turn four years later?
 
Thomas Jefferson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Grover Cleveland, or George H.W. Bush. 
 
If you said Grover Cleveland, put your hands up. He served as the 22nd and 24th president of the United States after losing his first reelection 
 
 campaign to Benjamin Harrison, he returned to defeat him in a rematch four years later.
 
Next up, Saturday mark two years since Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine serving as the impetus to this ongoing war. And now the 
 
 Ukrainian military says it does not have enough ammunition or money and it`s calling on the United States to help them further. 
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told CNN that millions of people could die if U.S. lawmakers don`t approve more aid. President Joe Biden 
 
 says continuing to support Ukraine is important and it`s a matter of national security, both abroad. And in the U.S. He will host a meeting with 
 
 the top four congressional leaders. Senate majority leader, Chuck Schumer, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Mike Johnson, and 
 
 House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries to discuss.
 
Johnson has been resistant to sending further aid without addressing U.S. border security more thoroughly. The Biden administration and U.S. Congress 
 
 have already directed approximately 75 billion worth of humanitarian, financial, and military aid to Ukraine. Our Christiane Amanpour shows us 
 
 now what life looks like in three Ukrainian cities as this war drags on.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (voice-over): This bookstore is called Sens or "The Meaning" and opening in Kyiv just days 
 
 before the Russian war enters a third year sends a clear message.
 
And Ukraine`s greatest living novelist, Andrey Kurkov tells us there is much to say about Ukraine`s culture, identity and resistance. He wrote the 
 
 foreword for this tome full of 12th century artifacts.
 
AMANPOUR: So when Putin says this is all greater Russia, what`s your answer?
 
ANDREY KURKOV, AUTHOR, "THE SILVER BONE": Well, he`s silly. And he`s not a historian. Kyiv is 1,540 years old. Moscow is only 870 years old.
 
AMANPOUR (voice-over): Ukrainian identity helps them fight and resist, says Kurkov, reminding us that Russians have looted and destroyed libraries, 
 
 theaters and museums in parts they now occupy.
 
Kurkov, like most Ukrainians, see themselves, their land, as the front line between the authoritarian and the democratic world.
 
Kyiv is further away from the fighting, but over in the northeast, Kharkiv, the second largest city, the danger is real and ever present. Some 40 miles 
 
 from the Russia border, their massive S-300 missiles reached the city in less than 40 seconds, no time to hide. Memorials to the recent dead spring 
 
 up all over.
 
This Kharkiv radio station is called "Boiling Over." It started up 10 years ago after Russia`s first invasion as an alternate voice.
 
Natalka, the radio host, tells us it`s also become a sounding board for the terrified and depressed Kharkiv listeners.
 
"Feedback can be varied," she tells us. "Sometimes they just thank me for the show, and for the fact that they got out of bed thanks to the program. 
 
 And I consider this a victory, because it could be someone in a state of absolute despair.
 
Lychakiv Cemetery in the western city of Lviv is like cemeteries all over Ukraine today. 
 
Two years ago, this was a grass field. Today, it`s a field of flags and the graves of those who`ve fallen defending this country. 
 
A woman seems to be talking to her fallen loved one.
 
And this widow, Nataliya, moves in for a kiss. Her husband, who had volunteered for the eastern front, was killed just shy of his 30th 
 
 birthday.
 
"I`m proud of my husband because his sacrifice is worth a lot," says Nataliya. 
 
(On camera): On this two-year anniversary, families are asking whether Ukraine can continue leaving it up to their volunteers or whether there 
 
 needs to be a call-up to mobilize for the Front.
 
(Voice-over): Nataliya agrees. "Yes, definitely," she says, "because, if we don`t defend ourselves, what kind of fate awaits us next? And if we don`t 
 
 defend our lands, Russia will be here soon."
 
And that`s the point. Starting a third year of full-scale war against the Russian invasion, they are heavily outmanned and vital weapons and 
 
 ammunition for their fight are tangled up in Washington`s political gridlock.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a new species of animal in Japan. And you know what, I was today years old when I learned that 
 
 scientists discover about 18,000 new plant and animal species each year. But this one very cool. The skeleton panda sea squirt officially recognized 
 
 even though "a-panda-ntly," it was first seen years ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is one of Japan`s new species. The skeleton panda sea squirt, the distinctive sea squirt first caught the attention of a 
 
 researcher in 2018. 
 
NAOHIRO HASEGAWA, RESEARCHER, HOKKAIDO UNIVERSITY (through translation): The white parts that look like bones are the blood vessels that run 
 
 horizontally through the sea squirts` gills. The black parts on the head that look like a panda`s eyes and nose are just a pattern, and we don`t 
 
 really know why the pattern is there. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the first-time scientists have studied the tiny sea creature, which can measure up to two centimeters long, which is less 
 
 than an inch.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: All right, shout out time now. This one goes to the Thunderbirds at Zia Middle School, bringing the Thunder from Las Cruces, New Mexico. Let`s 
 
 go. 
 
And this shout out goes to the "sand-sational" Stingrays of Sumner High School in Riverview, Florida, officially. Awesome. 
 
Remember, #YourWordWednesday tomorrow. Submit those vocab words @coywire on social. See you tomorrow, lovely people, rise up.
 
END