Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Report: Israeli Missile Strike On Damascus Hits Building Killing Several; Last Push Before New Hampshire Primary On Tuesday; Biden Hopeful To Have Bipartisan Immigration Package Next Week; Alec Baldwin Indicted For A Second Time In Film Set Shooting. Aired 7-8a ET

Aired January 20, 2024 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning, and welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. It is Saturday, January 20. This just turned 7:00. I'm Amara Walker.
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Victor Blackwell. Thank you for joining us this morning. Here is what we are watching for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): An Israeli missile strike has reportedly killed several people including Iranian military leaders in Damascus. Our team is live in the region with the latest.
 
SEN. TIM SCOTT (R-SC): We need Donald Trump.
 
WALKER (voice-over): Donald Trump secures another endorsement, this one from rival Nikki Haley's home state. Plus, how Nikki Haley is trying to close the gap with Trump in these final days ahead of Tuesday's New Hampshire primaries?
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): Texas mayors say they're fed up with the partisan response to dealing with the migrant surge at the border. A group of them met with President Biden to share their concerns. And we're joined live by one of the mayors who was in that meeting.
 
WALKER (voice-over): Actor Alec Baldwin has been charged again in connection with that fatal shooting on the "Rust" movie set. The charges he's facing and how his attorneys are responding.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALKER (on camera): We begin with breaking news out of Syria. Several people are reportedly dead after an Israeli missile struck a multi- story building in Damascus.
 
BLACKWELL (on camera): CNN's Ben Wedeman is following this story and joins us from Beirut. What more have you learned, Ben? BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, what we noticed about just over four hours ago, Victor and Amara, there was a massive explosion in the Mazzeh, suburb of Damascus. A suburb a high -- sort of a high-end suburb where there are UN offices, embassies, as well. There was a massive blast there.
 
What we saw on social media as well as Syrian T.V. was a man -- a large column of smoke rising from the area. Apparently, a three-story residential building was hit in this strike. Now, Syrian media is saying it was an Israeli airstrike. The Syrian Ministry of Defense says that Israeli planes came up through the -- from the direction of the Israeli-occupied Syrian Golan Heights toward Damascus before firing missiles toward the Syrian capital.
 
Now, CNN has reached out to the Israeli military who says that they do not comment on foreign reports. And in fact, they rarely claim responsibility for fairly frequent strikes, apparently, from Syria -- or either, apparently from Israel on Syria. Now, the Tasnim, a semi- official Iranian news agency is reporting that eight bodies have been removed from this now completely destroyed building.
 
Now, the same news agency has quoted the Iran -- the Iran -- the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. That's the Islamic -- the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, saying that among the dead are four military advisors belonging to them. Now, this obviously is not the first time that there has been strike -- there have been strikes in the Syrian Capital.
 
Everyone assumes -- takes it for granted these are Israeli strikes. On the 25th of December, there was a similar strike on a suburb of Damascus, again, killing a senior adviser from the IRGC. So, this really fits the pattern.
 
Now, it's not clear why the Israelis struck these particular Iranian military advisors. But it's within the context of what we're seeing with the war in Gaza, with Hezbollah striking Israeli targets, and Israel striking back. We have seen these strikes on in Iraq and in Syria as well. So, it really does -- it's all within the broader context of this slowly spreading -- war spreading from Gaza to throughout the Middle East, Amara, and Victor.
 
WALKER: Yes. Obviously, raising concerns for those watching this closely. Ben Wedeman, thank you very much.
 
Well, we are just three days now from the New Hampshire primary. And the 2024 Republican hopefuls are making their final push for votes. Now, former President Trump and Nikki Haley have events today in New Hampshire, but Ron DeSantis has an event in South Carolina after appearing to shift his campaign away from The Granite State.
 
BLACKWELL: Haley hopes that a strong showing in New Hampshire will set her up for a one-on-one race with Trump. Trump is projecting confidence ahead of next week's primary. He says a big win would finish off the race.
 <br>[07:05:10] CNN's Omar Jimenez is live in New Hampshire. Comfy-cozy out in single- digit weather for this morning. He laughs it out.
 
Omar, President Trump got a big endorsement last night. Maybe means more in South Carolina, but it comes in New Hampshire. Tell us about it.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Look, I heard you guys talking about 70-degree weather somewhere at the end of the year -- at the end of the week, last hour. And I got really excited. But that's not where I am right now.
 
We're obviously talking about the primary coming up in a few days. And yes, President Trump got a pretty major endorsement from a former presidential candidate in South Carolina, Senator Tim Scott. And as campaigns sort of look for ways to inject energy into a voting population days before a primary like this, the Trump campaign is hoping this is one of those moments.
 
And as you mentioned, Trump does believe that a big win here in New Hampshire after that landslide victory in Iowa could effectively lock up the nomination for him. That said, he told his supporters last night at a rally that they shouldn't pay attention to the polls. They need to show up almost as if acting like he is down in this particular race.
 
Now, for --- as for the endorsement itself, when Trump introduced Tim Scott to the stage, Trump actually said that this endorsement happened days ago. So, what's clear about this is that they really wanted to play up this endorsement. Doing it the way that they did. Take a listen to some of what we heard last night at the rally.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCOTT: We need a president who understands the American people are sick and tired of being sick and tired. We need -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: That's quite the delivery. Now, remember that Nikki Haley was the person who appointed Tim Scott to the Senate. And so, this happening, of course, in the way that it did is a major blow to the former South Carolina governor.
 
And they easily could have chosen to do this before the South Carolina primary. But choosing to do it now clearly means that they are trying to make a statement before the primary. And it lines up with some of our reporting that a source familiar with the planning says that there were talks of this endorsement, but the acceleration or the endorsed -- the timeline, I should say it was accelerated once they saw Nikki Haley's positioning in the polls.
 
So, it's a question of how much competition Nikki Haley will be able to give the former president. But very clearly, they're paying close attention to what could happen here. WALKER: All right. Omar Jimenez, thank you very much. Well, Nikki Haley says she was looking for a strong finish in New Hampshire. But she stopped short of saying she will win in the state.
 
BLACKWELL: Voters registered as independents or as they're called undeclared can vote in the primary. And that could bring a boost to Haley's campaign. CNN's Kylie Atwood spoke with voters about Haley's run.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Nikki Haley courting all New Hampshire voters, women included. Some saw it as an opportunity to take her by the hand and deliver a blunt message.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No party is going to tell me how to vote.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Others unexpectedly stumbling upon Haley's event, sat back, and watched her work the room. Feeling inspired to cast a ballot for the former South Carolina governor at the end of their tea. Driven by a desire to move on from Trump.
 
PEGGY CHIDESTER, NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTER: Did vote for Trump. I thought he was a fresh voice. I thought he was bringing something new into government. But I also at now feel like he's much too divisive.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Chidester isn't the only New Hampshire woman we spoke with who's planning to shift support from Trump to Haley.
 
LINDSEY MAUST, NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTER: Yes, I did vote for Trump.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Trump has been ramping up his attacks on the woman he once chose to serve in his administration. He has used well- worn tactics, calling her nicknames, using her birth name, Nimarada, to criticize her on social media, and promoting the falsehood about Haley's eligibility to serve as president despite being born in the United States. He's also questioned her ability to lead the Republican Party.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: She is not going to make it. She has no chance. She's got no way. MAGA is not going to be with her. And if she wins, Biden wins.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): New Hampshire women shrugged off those attacks saying they're really nothing new for Trump.
 
JENNIFER NASSOUR, NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTER: He has this primal instinct to lash out and choose lies -- promote lies. If he were a cornered animal, he would -- (INAUDIBLE) but instead, he's using words. So, whatever.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Those looking to Haley just want something new, explained Lindsey Maust, who came to see Haley with her mother and her two young children.
 
MAUST: I think it's good to bring some feminine power to our country and just a different mindset because I don't think what we have gone on is gone so well right now.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): While Haley speaks about being a mother and a wife on the campaign trail, she's avoided making her female identity central to her pitch.
 <br>[07:10:06]
 
NIKKI HALLEY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: May the best woman win. All kidding aside, this is not about identity politics. I don't believe in that. And I don't believe in glass ceilings either.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): And it's an approach that has gained her respect.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She's been a legislator, a governor. She's been the UN ambassador. She's an accountant.
 
She's a mom. She's a daughter, right? She has friends. So, she understands people in a different way.
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): But so far, being the only woman in the Republican race has not translated to an outsize female support. In the Iowa caucuses, CNN entrance polls showed Haley lagging far behind Trump among women. Whether she can close the gap in New Hampshire may determine how much of a challenge she poses to Trump on Tuesday night.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ATWOOD (on camera): Now, Nikki Haley has said that she wants to do better here in New Hampshire than she did in Iowa where she came in third place, more than 30 points behind former President Trump. And over the course of the weekend, she's going to be barnstorming the state, of course, with the goal of trying to make that aspiration or reality. Victor. Amara.
 
BLACKWELL: Kylie Atwood, thanks so much. Joining us now is Juliana Bergeron, a member with the Executive Committee of the New Hampshire GOP and a member of the New Hampshire Federation of Republican Women. Thank you so much for being on with me.
 
All right. So, both Governor DeSantis and Ambassador Haley agree this is a two-person race. Undeniably, the other person in those equations is Donald Trump. They disagree on who the second person is. Do you believe that this is a two-person race?
 
JULIANA BERGERON, MEMBER, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NEW HAMPSHIRE GOP: I do think, at this point. Particularly, here in New Hampshire, it's a two-person race. It's between Nikki and Trump.
 
BLACKWELL: And do you think that the former ambassador is building momentum that could make this a contended race, that she couldn't win this instead of coming just close?
 
BERGERON: I'm not sure if she can -- if she can win it. But New Hampshire is completely different than Iowa. And I think she had a lot of -- you know -- he -- Trump had a lot of the evangelicals there. And here, I think she is beginning to pick up more independents that are allowed to vote, you know, Republican or Democrat.
 
I think it'll -- I think it'll be closer. And I think she's still gaining ground here.
 
BLACKWELL: The former president has said several times that Democrats, in his characterization, are going to infiltrate the Republican primary. Of course, Democrats -- registered Democrats cannot vote in the Republican primary. Only the undeclared can.
 
The breakdown here. 344,000 registered as undeclared. 270,000 registered as Republicans. The governor says that just before the deadline to switch party registration, about 4000 Democrats moved to undeclared or Republican. Do they play any significant role here considering those numbers?
 
BERGERON: They always play a significant role in New Hampshire. The Republicans -- either the Republicans or the Democrats can't win an election without pulling the independents in this state. So, they will -- they'll be the deciding factor here, I think.
 
BLACKWELL: But the -- to the -- to the extent that -- 
 
BERGERON: (INAUDIBLE) Over to us them to go that come over to -- you know, at this point, there's not, you know, a real race on the Democrat side. So, more of them are going to be voting Republican. This side.
 
And I think more of them will be voting for Nikki. I think she's picking up you know, Chris Christie's people. And I think she -- I think she has a greater following here in New Hampshire than she had in Iowa.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes. That's about the 344,000 undeclared. But when the former president says that Democrats are infiltrating the Republican primary, your reaction to that characterization?
 
BERGERON: Yes -- no, I don't think that's true. I don't think that's true. I think it's another made-up story. I mean, I don't know how much we can believe of what the former president says anyway, but this is just another exaggeration.
 
BLACKWELL: He's got Tim Scott's endorsement now, maybe makes a big difference in South Carolina. A popular sitting senator going around the state campaigning essentially against the former governor. How much difference if at all do you think it makes in New Hampshire that Tim Scott's backing Donald Trump?
 
BERGERON: I think it had very little difference when Tim Scott came out with his position on abortion. I think most -- particularly women here in the state of New Hampshire knew he wasn't going to last very long in New Hampshire. Like, I don't think he had a lot of following -- people following him. And I don't think it's going to make much difference. It sounds to me like it's mostly trying to run for vice president.
 
BLACKWELL: If you sight Tim Scott's position on abortion as a reason that Republican women would not have supported him, had he come this far in the process, Former President Trump brags that he's the one who ended Roe. So, how was -- what is his standing then with Republican women in the state?
 <br>[07:15:16]
 
BERGERON: I don't think his standing is great with Republican women in the state. I think he has the women that he had as part of his base. And I think it's -- it seems to me, it's a group of older women.
 
And I don't think he's gained a lot of women -- of women here. I think, you know, when you -- when you listen to him, and when you watch him, and when you read the papers, it's hard to think of women flocking to Trump.
 
BLACKWELL: On the question of debates, the former ambassador said that she would not debate only Ron DeSantis. The next debate that she would engage in would be either with Donald Trump or if she's the nominee, with President Biden. So, CNN had to cancel its debate.
 
And I believe in ABC/WMUR debate was canceled as well. What does that mean to the voters of New Hampshire? Did they need to hear from these candidates again?
 
BERGERON: I think the voters of New Hampshire were disappointed. We generally have a WMUR debate. I am a member of the RNC debate committee. And we -- you know, we've been planning it for well over -- well over a year.
 
I wish she had decided to -- decided to debate. But I think that you know, with Trump winning in Iowa, I think the -- you know, the pressures on. And he seemed to -- you know, he said he would never be in any of the debates, and he -- and he hasn't been. And I think that's why she made that move. I think people are disappointed though.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes. You know, I read a piece, either yesterday or sometime this week, in which the writer said that the New Hampshire primaries are a bust. You've got three candidates now who are still in the race.
 
Essentially, Governor DeSantis has moved on to South Carolina. He's got his events there. Trump had one event last night. He's got one today, and one tomorrow.
 
Nikki Haley has four. Are you seeing the typical quadrennial whirlwind that you expect in New Hampshire, or is it feeling a little light this year?
 
BERGERON: I don't think it feels light this year. I think you know, Nikki's going to be here in my town later this morning, and she'll pack it. I think that there have been just as many events I think that a lot of people want to -- want to think that it slowed down, and particularly President Biden, who was afraid to come here. And that's why he started messing, or at least trying to mess with our primary.
 
My number one job is, as the committeewoman for New Hampshire was to make sure we maintained our first-in-the-nation status. And at least on this watch, it has been I think, a good primary.
 
BLACKWELL: Juliana Bergeron, I appreciate the conversation. Thanks so much.
 
WALKER: All right, coming up. Several Texas mayors said are fed up with the hyperpolarization over immigration as tensions between President Biden and Texas Governor Greg Abbott continue to escalate. We're going to speak with a mayor who just sat down with President Biden.
 
Also, new charges against actor Alec Baldwin in that deadly shooting on the "Rust" movie set. We're going to break down what it could all mean with an attorney.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:22:34]
 
WALKER: President Joe Biden says he is hopeful that a bipartisan immigration package will emerge next week in the Senate after weeks of haggling and back and forth in Congress. This comes as authorities they apprehensions at the U.S.-Mexico border are ticking up again. Border authorities have encountered on average around 4000 migrants per day this week, and that is up from an estimated 3000 migrant apprehensions per day earlier in the month. But that is still a significant drop for more than 10,000 per day in mid-December.
 
Yesterday, the president met with a bipartisan gathering of mayors from across the U.S. Many of whom represent border communities in Texas. Joining me now is one of those mayors, Ramiro Garza. He is the mayor of Edinburg, Texas.
 
Mr. Mayor, really appreciate your time. You know, first of all, I just want to hear what the mood was amongst, you know, your colleagues, the mayors you know, who have a shared border with Mexico. I know there's been a lot of frustration about the partisan bickering, you know about the border. And, of course, the tensions that we've been seeing play out between federal and local officials. What was the mood like?
 
RAMIRO GARZA, MAYOR OF EDINBURG, TEXAS: Well, the mood going in, obviously, we're hoping to hear what the solutions are for what is happening on the border. But we left there hopeful because the president committed to working with the Senate and the House to make sure they move towards a solution, and he promised massive changes. And so, we're looking forward to that. And we're hoping that does take place.
 
WALKER: OK. So, you left hopeful. So, tell me more about this conversation. You were there yesterday afternoon at the White House. What exactly -- what massive changes did President Biden promise you?
 
GARZA: So, what he's talking about is adding more agents to the border. Border Patrol. Our Border Patrol has been doing their job. They've been doing the best they can with the laws that are in place.
 
Adding more asylum officers, some judges, and technology also to our border to make sure it's secure. And so, I think a lot of these things are going to be needed. And I think a lot of these things have been talked about. We just need action on this.
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
GARZA: And that's what we're hoping happens.
 
WALKER: So, you were promised more resources by the president, was this as a part of this bipartisan immigration package that, you know, has been at an impasse for weeks now, that's been tied to the aid to Ukraine, Israel, and Taiwan, or did -- was he talking about this separately as a comprehensive package?
 <br>[07:25:08]
 
GARZA: No. It's part of what has been discussed to add more resources. I think this is part of what has been talked about.
 
I think by many. But it just needs to be acted on. And I think as mayors, that's what we all talked about and making sure that this moves forward.
 
WALKER: Talk to us about the day-to-day what it's been like for you and your community. I mean, Edinburg, I was looking on the map is just, what, 20 miles or so from the border. What have you been dealing with?
 
GARZA: So, in our community and a lot of communities within our border, a lot of the migrants, they pass through our communities. They don't stay in our area. So, you know, the -- what you see on the border is obviously a challenge all throughout the entire border region.
 
But for us in our community, I was telling our -- my fellow mayors, we have the same challenges that every other area. We don't have migrants going through our streets or anything. Our border patrol is doing their job. Our law enforcement is doing their job.
 
And it's relatively safe in our community because people are doing their job. But we -- this is a humanitarian crisis. We need to make sure that there is a solution that is brought forth quickly because if not, again, this is taking a toll on many people.
 
WALKER: You talk about this being a humanitarian crisis. I'm just curious to know, you know, what your thoughts are on what has been happening, you know, between Texas State officials been extraordinary, you know, blocking access to federal Border Patrol agents. And of course, there's legal action being taken by the Biden administration. But what are your thoughts on what's unfolding there?
 
GARZA: Well, I personally don't agree with you know, our state has been involved on this to the extent that they have been, you know. It's causing -- it's -- the way we see it as mayors, it's political stunts. It's things that are unnecessary.
 
But I -- look, our governor in Texas is doing this because nothing's being done about this issue, right, on the federal level. And so -- but we need it to stop, you know. We need to -- the bickering to stop. We need to make sure that, you know, we come to the table, and we find solutions to address this issue.
 
WALKER: You know if Congress ever gets its act together with a comprehensive immigration solution, what would be on your -- what would be the top few things on your wish list to see?
 
GARZA: Well, we need -- for -- number one, we need to make sure everything's secure, right? But also, we need to make sure that there's a more clearly defined process on how someone can legally come here and, you know, get their citizenship or their work visas. (INAUDIBLE) It's so -- it's such a complex issue.
 
But we need to make sure that it's -- you know, more efficient that we have more agents on our border. We have more technology. We have the things that are needed to make sure that we help facilitate the legal trade because we have a lot of trade happening.
 
Our area accounts for more than two-thirds of all the trade between Texas and Mexico, you know, through the Texas-Mexico border. And we contribute over 350 billion to our GDP.
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
GARZA: We're so -- you know, we need to make sure we get this right. And as mayors, we were talking to yesterday, so we don't have the luxury to have standoffs -- 
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
GARZA: Because our residents expect us to make decisions on what the effects on their lives.
 
WALKER: We're going to have to leave it there. Mayor Ramiro Garza, thank you very much.
 
BLACKWELL: Still ahead, actor Alec Baldwin is facing new charges in the deadly shooting on the "Rust" movie set. We'll discuss with an attorney. Next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:32:33]
 
WALKER: Actor Alec Baldwin has been indicted for a second time in the fatal movie set shooting of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins in 2021. He is now facing two felony charges of involuntary manslaughter.
 
BLACKWELL: Prosecutors in New Mexico dropped similar charges last year, but a grand jury was presented new evidence this week. Baldwin has denied pulling the trigger and his attorneys say that they look forward to their day in court.
 
CNN security correspondent Josh Campbell has more on the new charges. JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Victor and Amara, actor Alec Baldwin, once again criminally charged. That according to an indictment issued Friday by a grand jury in New Mexico.
 
The actor's new indictment for involuntary manslaughter pertains to his alleged role in the fatal shooting on the set of the movie, "Rust" in 2021, in which a gun that Baldwin was holding discharged, killing cinematographer Halyna Hutchins.
 
Baldwin has long proclaimed his innocence, insisting he never pulled the trigger on the gun before it fired. His attorneys issued a brief statement after Friday's indictment was announced, indicating, "we look forward to our day in court."
 
Baldwin had been previously charged with involuntary manslaughter, the lead prosecutor at the time described for CNN, a culture of alleged negligence on the movie set.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARY CARMACK-ALTWIES, DISTRICT ATTORNEY, SANTA FE DISTRICT, NEW MEXICO: There was such a lack of safety and safety standards on that set. That there were live rounds on set. They were mixed in with regular dummy rounds. Nobody was checking those or at least they weren't checking them consistently. And then, they somehow got loaded into a gun handed off to Alec Baldwin. He didn't check it. He didn't do any of the things that he was supposed to do to make sure that he was safe or that anyone around him was safe.
 
And then, he pointed the gun at Alyna Hutchins, and he pulled the trigger.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMPBELL: Those initial charges against Baldwin were dropped early last year, after authorities learned the gun used in the shooting may have been modified.
 
A law enforcement source told me, however, prosecutors said the case could be refiled at a later date. Forensic analysis commissioned by authorities, indicated the gun could not have been fired without someone pulling the trigger.
 
In October, a prosecutor said, "additional facts have come to light that we believe show, Mr. Baldwin has criminal culpability in the death of Halyna Hutchins." And signaled a grand jury would be deciding on recharging the actor. If convicted of the new accusations. Baldwin faces up to 18 months in prison. Victor, Amara?
 
WALKER: All right. Both charges are involuntary manslaughter, but one is negligent use of a firearm. The other is without due caution. Here to break down the indictment is attorney Areva Martin.
 <br>[07:35:01]
 
First off, Areva, is this unusual to be indicted for a second time? AREVA MARTIN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: It is unusual, particularly, in this case, Amara, where you have prosecutors who pretty much acknowledged that they couldn't move forward with the fate -- first case, dismissing those charges. And now having a second case brought forward grand jury, though, issuing this indictment. But it's pretty much the same evidence, although they said new evidence came forward.
 
We've been hearing before even before this new indictment, that there was evidence that the trigger was pulled, even though Alec Baldwin has maintained that he did not pull the trigger.
 
I think this is going to be a very difficult case for prosecutors, because they're also taking the position that anyone that's handed a gun has an obligation to ensure that, you know, they use a gun in a proper way.
 
And I think that's generally the case. But Alec Baldwin is going to push back on that, saying that, look, I'm an actor, I want to set I'm handed a gun, there's an armorer there. There are other people who were responsible for, you know, what was in that gun, and he was told, he's going to testify that there were no live ammunitions. That the gun was safe to use at the time.
 
So, I think it's going to be a pretty difficult case for the prosecutors.
 
BLACKWELL: Let's talk about the two counts of involuntary manslaughter in court documents one described as negligent use of a firearm, the other involuntary manslaughter without due caution or circumspection. Both for degree -- fourth degree felonies. Ultimately, he can only be convicted of one. So, what's the distinction between the two?
 
MARTIN: Well, the more serious involuntary manslaughter charge, Victor, includes a determination that there is some kind of willful discharge.
 
And again, I think, because Alec Baldwin was serving not just as an actor, but a producer on this set, is what we're going to hear a lot about from the prosecution when this case does move forward to trial, we're going to hear about his responsibility as a producer that distinguishes him from just being an actor on a set.
 
So, again, his defense that, look, I was told by the armorer that the gun was safe to use, that there wasn't any live ammunition is going to be a juxtapose with his obligations, which are more responsibilities that you have in terms of safety, when you are a producer on a set.
 
But the big question in this case, that's still remains to be unanswered is how did that live ammunition get on the set in the first place? We know the armorer has been charged, her trial is set to begin this February. But we still have not heard these prosecutors state how that ammunition got on that set, how it got mixed in with the dummy ammunition, and how that ammunition that design ammunition was in a gun, loaded, that Alec Baldwin was using in that particular scene? I think that's the unanswered question We all can agree that no one should die on a movie set. And this was a horrible tragedy. And of course, someone should be held accountable. But I'm not sure Alec Baldwin is that someone?
 
WALKER: Yes. How do you think, Areva, then, these changes are impacts that the movie industry? I mean, if I were an actor, and you know, I had a scene where I had to use a, you know, a gun, a fake gun, what have you, I probably wouldn't want to handle it in case, you know, something happens and I am facing charges.
 
MARTIN: Oh, absolutely, Amara. And let's be clear, this gun was not a prop gun. This was an actual, you know, pistol. This was a real gun. So, I think, if you're an actor on a set, one of the things you're going to want to do in your contract is make sure that you are not handling a real gun. That you are using a prop gun, or that the gun scene is somehow, you know, rolled out by technology, that technology is used in a greater way than what was used in this case.
 
There have been a lot of actors and producers talking about this case, and talking about how technology can be used, how advanced artificial intelligence is at the stage, and how actors don't have to handle real guns, and we don't have to have ever again a situation occurred like this on a movie set.
 
BLACKWELL: Areva, there was new evidence presented to this special purpose grand jury. We don't know what that is yet. When will that be public? When will we know what the new evidence is in this process?
 
MARTIN: Well, there is going to be an arraignment that will occur with respect to Alec Baldwin, who have to go into court and state whether he's pleading guilty or not guilty.
 
And we may, if there's an arraignment hearing here about some of that new evidence. But I suspect even before the trial that the prosecutors may start to leak what some of that new evidence is.
 
And there is always the possibility of a plea deal that Alec Baldwin could enter into some kind of plea deal with the prosecution where he wouldn't serve any jail time.
 
We know these charges carry up to 18 months in jail if he is convicted. He is a working actor. He's already said that he has experienced a downturn in the job that he's been offered, and he suffered financially just from the original charges being brought.
 <br>[07:40:04]
 
So, he is going to be pretty motivated to get this case resolved and to get it resolved in a way that presumably will give him an opportunity to continue to earn a living as an actor.
 
WALKER: Areva Martin, we'll leave it there. Thank you very much.
 
MARTIN: Thank you.
 
WALKER: Still ahead, a plane makes an emergency landing on a Virginia highway. We'll have the pictures and details, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:45:00]
 
WALKER: In your "HEADLINES THIS MORNING", President Joe Biden, signed a temporary funding extension yesterday, preventing a government shutdown. But it's another short window until the next shutdown threat. Legislators now have to try to approve a set of annual spending bills before the new deadlines on March 1st and March 8th.
 
BLACKWELL: Officials in Uvalde, Texas selected a new Grand Jury yesterday to investigate the 2022 tragedy at Rob Elementary School. As was first reported by the Uvalde leader news, this would mark the first known step within the criminal justice system to address the botched police response to one of the worst school shootings in U.S. history.
 
19 students, two teachers were killed while law enforcement officers waited for more than an hour before they moved in to stop the shooter.
 
CNN has contacted the prosecutor and court officials for comment but has not yet heard back.
 
WALKER: And talk about unexpected traffic, a small commuter plane made an emergency landing on a Virginia road. Witnesses say, the Cessna narrowly avoided hitting cars and a traffic light before safely coming to a stop near a guardrail yesterday afternoon. It departed from Dulles Airport near Washington just minutes earlier.
 
Seven people were on board, but no one was hurt. The cause of the emergency landing has not been released, but the FAA is investigating.
 
All right. "FIRST OF ALL" starts at the top of the hour. Victor, what's coming up?
 
BLACKWELL: We have a lot coming up. We're starting with former Ambassador Nikki Haley, who on Thursday night at the CNN town hall, for a second time, she doubled down, it says that America has never been a racist country, despite the evidence it's been codified in local, state, and federal law. So, we'll get into that.
 
And if this helps her with those moderates and undeclared voters, she'll need in New Hampshire to win or get close to former President Trump.
 
Also, if a child of color, black, Asian American, Native American, Latino, let's say breaks his arm playing baseball, he is far less likely than a white child to get pain medication. Once he gets to the hospital.
 
There is a review of children's care that shows that from the moment children of color are born through their entire childhood, they get worse care than their white counterparts.
 
So, we'll talk about the person -- (CROSSTALK)
 
WALKER: Wow.
 
BLACKWELL: Oh, talk with the person who did that review. We got a lot more coming that start at the top of the hour.
 
WALKER: All right. Looking forward to it, Victor. Thank you. "FIRST OF ALL" starts in just a few minutes at the top of the hour. Make sure to tune in.
 
Well, when every moment is precious, the memories matter even more. So, for a handful of kids from the Make a Wish Foundation, a day with Tom Brady and other sports superstars was a dream come true.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:51:48]
 
WALKER: The Boston Celtics perfect season at home coming to an end at the hands of the reigning NBA champs. Andy Scholes is here.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes.
 
WALKER: I mean, it took more than two months, but the Celtics finally lost in Boston.
 
SCHOLES: yes. Yes, Amara. You know, no NBA team has ever gone undefeated for an entire NBA season. With the Celtics, I mean, they were halfway there. They entered last night's game against the Nuggets a perfect 20 and 0 at home, but they ran into reigning in -- NBA Finals MVP Nicola Jokic.
 
He was playing with a heavy heart in this one, were his assistant, fellow Serbian Dejan Milojevic, who passed away suddenly earlier this week was Jokic's mentor.
 
Jokic honored him, scoring 34 points to go along with 12 rebounds and nine assists. Now, Celtics did have a chance to tie this game in the closing seconds but Jayson Tatum shot right here, going to be no good. Nuggets hand the Celtics their first home lost this season, one or two to 100, the final there, and that's probably a potential NBA Finals preview as well.
 
All right. NFL divisional round kicks off today, starting with the Ravens hosting the Texans. Can C.J. Stroud continue his amazing play and get the Texans to their first ever AFC Championship Game. Lamar Jackson, the Ravens, 9-1/2 point favorites in that one.
 
The 49 is also 9-1/2 point favorites over the Packers. Now, Jordan Love looking at pull off his second straight huge upset for United's and Packers. One of the best playoff rivalries in sports, this is their record 10th meeting in the postseason. San Fran has a five and four record in those games, including winning the last four in a row.
 
All right. Finally, our difference makers series is back. The Make-a- Wish Foundation and Fanatics teaming up over the holidays giving kids a chance to meet the likes of Tom Brady, Aaron Judge and Jayson Tatum.
 
Our Coy Wire was there to capture it all.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR (voice over): The smiles on faces and teary eyes said it all.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Dad, this is so cool.
 
JAYSON TATUM, BOSTON CELTICS GUARD: Seeing the smiles and how genuine their reactions are, you know, that's the best, best feeling.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I'm feeling great because I have a smile. And yes, I'm just feeling awesome.
 
WIRE: I don't know if that's why I was ever coming up.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just seeing how tall all of them are, first, but I just kind of seeing him in person, and talking to him. It was amazing, incredible experience.
 
TOM BRADY, SEVEN-TIME SUPER BOWL CHAMPION: To see a lot of these kids that I been -- had a chance to meet during really fun experiences has made a big impact in my life.
 
TATUM: I was excited to see Tom Brady today. Right? So, I felt like a kid.
 
LESLIE MOTTER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, MAKE-A-WISH FOUNDATION: To be able to dream big, to wish for anything that they want. It really allows them to reclaim their childhood.
 
TATUM: Nothing more rewarding or inspirational or being around, kids, and kids that, you know, have challenges, but you know, continue to fight. And, you know, as much as we can inspire and motivate them, they do the same for us.
 
WIRE: I know you came here to inspire some kids.
 
But how inspired were you today by seeing them?
 
AARON JUDGE, NEW YORK YANKEES OUTFIELDER: Well, these, you know, these kids are talking about, hey, you're our hero. You know, we're waiting to meet you.
 
And it's like, no, you guys are my hero. The strength you show on a daily basis. You know, the smile you have, you know, whatever you're going through, it's truly inspiring.
 
BRADY: We're all blessed with a lot of things, and the opportunity to give back to a lot of these children and families, and friends of the families that are doing a lot under pretty tough circumstances is a great thing.
 
MICHAEL RUBIN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, FANATICS: My goal is just that each one of these kids and their families just leaves her saying you know I'm not much more inspired and we all learn and grow from each other.
 <br>[07:55:05]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To see him so happy and read all his ideas this has been a great experience.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, and to be helping out other kids make their wishes come to.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My hearts exploding, you know? Just amazing to see him so happy and his wish come true. He's been talking about it for years. It's been his wish. It's been amazing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SCHOLES: Yes. Just so great to see all those kids so happy in that moment.
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
SCHOLES: And for the likes of Tom Brady, Aaron Judge and Jayson Tatum, to be, you know, so engaged and getting so much out of meeting those kids is just awesome to see.
 
WALKER: Yes, yes. And also, the parents right to see their children that happy too, it's just so heartwarming.
 
Thanks for bringing that to us, Andy.
 
SCHOLES: Right.
 
WALKER: And thank you for being with us this morning. "FIRST OF ALL" with Victor Blackwell is up next. Have a great day, everyone.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)