Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Qatar Slams Israel Prime Minister, Accuses Him Of Undermining The Country's Mediation Efforts; FAA Announces Boeing 737 MAX-9 Jets Could Be Back In Operation As Long As They Pass A Set Of Inspections; Jury For E. Jean Carroll Case To Decide How Much Former President Trump  Will Have To Pay For Defamatory Statements; Parents Of A Convicted High School Shooter In Michigan Face Criminal Charges; Ozzy Osbourne Plans To End His Touring Days With Two Final Concerts. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired January 25, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello everyone, live from New York, I'm Bianna Golodryga. Zain is off today. You are watching ONE WORLD. Well, a 
 
 brand new and potentially troubling diplomatic row is emerging amid the Israel-Hamas negotiations, and this one involves a key player in the talks. 
 
Qatar is slamming Israel's Prime Minister, accusing him of undermining the country's mediation efforts. Now, it comes after a leaked audio recording 
 
 airing on Israeli television allegedly captured Benjamin Netanyahu criticizing the Gulf nation, describing it as, quote, "problematic". CNN 
 
 cannot verify if the voice is indeed that of Prime Minister Netanyahu, but take a listen to what was leaked. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  For me, Qatar is no different in essence from the U.N. It is no different in essence from the Red Cross. And in a 
 
 certain sense, it is even worse, more problematic. I was very angry recently, and I didn't hide it from the Americans, that they renewed the 
 
 contract on the military base they have with Qatar. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Netanyahu also reportedly says that Qatar is not doing enough to put pressure on Hamas to free the hostages. As you may recall, Qatar has 
 
 already helped to broker a deal to release hostages and enforce a temporary truce in Gaza. Doha says that it is appalled by the recording. And just a 
 
 few hours ago, CNN also got a reaction from the U.S. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VEDANT PATEL, PRINCIPAL DEPUTY SPOKESPERSON, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT:  Our hope is that this important work continues. We have not parsed our words on 
 
 how critical it is that every hostage, every unaccounted American that is being detained or held hostage by Hamas needs to be released and that's 
 
 something that will continue to work in close coordination with, of course, our partners in Qatar, but also our partners in the Israeli government, as 
 
 well.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Nic Robertson is live in Tel Aviv with the latest on this fallout for us. So, Nic, it's no secret that there has been some public 
 
 criticism and questioning of Qatar's role in all of this, specifically given that Qatar does house some of Hamas leadership. That having been 
 
 said, they have been an integral player in this and did help facilitate the release of over 100 hostages. Give us the reaction in Israel among the 
 
 public and within the government to this released audio. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Excuse me, I'm sorry. So this, of course, comes at a time just a couple of days ago where the 
 
 Qatar. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Take a minute. Nic, take a minute. 
 
Robertson :  It's okay. I'm good. It comes just a couple of days after the Qataris had said that the talks, their mediation role between Israel and 
 
 Hamas was going well, they indicated, that the communications were working well, there was positivity on both sides. 
 
So, this sort of comes in somewhat of stark contrast to this. You know, the Qataris, from their point of view, have a very clear perspective on their 
 
 role as the Prime Minister, if it was him speaking, alluded to, that yes, they do give the money to Hamas. 
 
The Prime Minister would indicate they could put more financial pressure on Hamas. This was something that Qatar has done in conjunction with the 
 
 Israeli government and with the United States, part of a broader initiative in the region.
 
I think the way that this is falling with the Israeli public is perhaps reflected by those members -- those family members of hostages who were in 
 
 the room with the Prime Minister when this recording was apparently leaked from. They said, look, when we go into the room, we hand over our phones at 
 
 the door and the Prime Minister and his officials record the conversation that goes on in the room. 
 
And they question the judgment of the Prime Minister's office in the fact that this audio was leaked. They, of course, focus very clearly on getting 
 
 their loved ones released, and this is their priority, and it concerns them. It perhaps reflects a little bit what the Qataris have also alleged 
 
 in this case, if in fact it was the Prime Minister speaking.
 
They have said in their very barbed diplomatic response, and they put it very personally on the Prime Minister here, not sort of labeling Israel, 
 
 but saying about him, that if it is him, he appears to be putting his own political leadership ahead of the lives of people in Gaza and the lives of 
 
 these Israeli hostages. 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
And I think there's a -- with some segment of the population here in Israel, that resonates because there's an understanding that the Prime 
 
 Minister is unpopular, that he is partly to blame for what has happened here. If the war ends, then he would be out of office. 
 
And if the hostages were released as part of a broader peace initiative with a longer truce, then that really, in real terms, could trigger the end 
 
 of the war and therefore perhaps the end of the political career for the Prime Minister. So, this is what the Qataris are getting to. It is a 
 
 question that perhaps we're hearing the families of the hostages raising, and it is a perception in society here. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yeah, it is notable that a former Mossad chief called the timing of this purported leak puzzling, if in fact it is Prime Minister 
 
 Netanyahu who is uttering those words. Nic Robertson, always great to see you. Please take a well-deserved drink of water, and I appreciate you 
 
 joining us. 
 
Well, one former Israeli Prime Minister is putting Netanyahu's situation this way, "For the love of God, go."
 
Coming up, my conversation with Ehud Barak. But first, Boeing 737 MAX-9 jets could be back in the sky this weekend, as long as they pass a set of 
 
 inspections. The Federal Aviation Administration has announced that. The planes have been grounded since a door plug on an Alaska Airlines plane 
 
 blew out mid-flight earlier this month. Alaska says the grounding of the planes will cost the airline about $150 million. 
 
Meanwhile, the FAA says that it won't grant any production expansion of the Boeing 737 MAX line-up until it satisfied quality control issues are 
 
 resolved. Boeing CEO recently took the opportunity to defend his airline. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVE CALHOUN, CEO BOEING:  We fly safe planes. We don't put airplanes in the air that we don't have 100 percent confidence in. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  In Russia, though, we could seem soon get more answers following the crash of a military plane. Moscow says the flight recorders 
 
 from that plane are being decoded at a military lab. Now, it's still not clear who or what was on board the plane when it crashed near the Ukrainian 
 
 border, but Russia says there are no survivors. 
 
Now, Kyiv is raising fresh doubts about Russian claims that Ukrainian POWs were on board. And Moscow continues to insist that Ukraine shot down the 
 
 plane. In the coming hours, the U.N. Security Council is set to meet over the incident. 
 
So, let's talk about all of this with CNN aerospace analyst Miles O'Brien. So, Miles, very tough to crack inside what is going on as far as how Moscow 
 
 is investigating this crash. But from what we know, we do know that they have had access now and have found the black box recordings. What, if 
 
 anything, can they tell us about this incident? And do you think a flight manifest would even be available? 
 
MILES O'BRIEN, CNN AEROSPACE ANALYST:  Well, these are all important questions. What the authorities on the ground there may be able to discern 
 
 and what the rest of the world will know could be two very divergent things. In cases like this where there is the high probability of a shoot 
 
 down, there's an awful lot you can learn, Bianna, just by looking at the metal. 
 
Which way did it fail? Was it bent inward or outward? Inward would suggest, you know, air -- surface to air missile. Outward would suggest some sort of 
 
 explosive on board the aircraft. Those kinds of things don't require black boxes but what whatever thing -- what we do need is a public disclosure in 
 
 a candid way and I'm not sure we're going to get that.
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yeah, good luck getting that from the Russians. It is interesting that the Ukrainians have been silent on this. The big issue, 
 
 though for -- it appears for them, is who was on board, whether that was a legitimate target in their view, taking down a Russian plate inside of 
 
 Russia, or was this a tragic error if, in fact, there were Ukrainian POWs on that flight. So, we will continue to follow that developing story. 
 
Let me bring you back to the U.S. here and the scandal over Boeing. So, we know the FAA had halted the 737 MAX production expansion but it also 
 
 cleared the 737 MAX-9 inspection instructions, paving the way for the planes to be ungrounded in the coming days. How should we interpret that? 
 
O'BRIEN:  Yeah, it seems like it's going in two separate directions, Bianna, but there is a 12-hour process of inspecting these aircraft to make 
 
 sure they're safe to fly for now. And I think that's probably going to be okay. That'll probably make those aircraft safe enough and certainly that 
 
 door which blew out on January 5th on the Alaska Airlines flight. 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
That would certainly be double, triple-checked and secured. 
 
The larger issue of Boeing's ramp-up of production speaks to the overall picture here, that this particular event is part of a continuum and part of 
 
 a series of problems with the 737 MAX, the 787, all kinds of issues that Boeing has had to contend with over the past few years. And it raises 
 
 fundamental questions about what corners may be cut on the factory floor there, as this manufacturer tries to produce 737s and meet market demand. 
 
So, I think it's a wise thing for them to stand down. And I do think that the FAA really needs to think about having actual inspectors on the factory 
 
 floor in greater numbers. As you well know, Bianna, over the years, they've had these designated inspectors who are Boeing employees who work 
 
 ostensibly on behalf of the FAA. There's obviously a fundamental conflict of interest there. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yeah, the FAA is known to be the gold standard in air traffic security around the world, and obviously we cannot risk losing that, as 
 
 well. So, every precaution still needs to be taken, though we should note Alaska said it would resume the 737 MAX-9 flights this Friday. 
 
United plans to return the planes to service beginning on Sunday. Miles O'Brien, haven't seen you in a while. It's good to see you. Thanks so much 
 
 for joining us. 
 
O'BRIEN:  You're welcome, Bianna.
 
GOLODRYGA:  Now, to the U.S. economy which finished out 2023 with a bang. Literally, the GDP in the final three months of the year grew at an annual 
 
 rate of 3.3 percent, dropping from the third quarter, but far exceeding expectations. Rahel Solomon is live in New York for us. 
 
So, this miracle economy continues to chug along here, Rahel. This is almost double, I believe, what estimates had called for. What's behind this 
 
 continued growth? 
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, miracles -- what a way to put it. Our remarkable, resilient, lots of sort of ways to define this 
 
 economy right now. But yes, it is more than twice what economists were expecting. 
 
So, what's behind it is really what we saw is consumers. I mean, consumer spending was a really large driver here, Bianna. Government spending 
 
 continued to be a strong driver at the end of the year. Business inventories, as well. 
 
Consumer spending is an area of the economy that has really left a lot of economists sort of scratching their heads because, of course, as we know, 
 
 the Fed has raised interest rates 10 times. They have done a remarkable amount in a very short time, and yet the consumer continued to spend in the 
 
 last quarter. 
 
We saw continued spending on both the good side of the economy and the services side of the economy. The report pointing out that people continue 
 
 to spend on food services, restaurants, on accommodations, traveling, hotels. I mean, that is not an economy that is in contraction. That is not 
 
 an economy where folks are necessarily tightening their belts, at least according to this report. 
 
Now, if you look at sort of the last few quarters or so, we don't have this for you, but I can tell you that 3.3 percent on an annualized basis. Yes, 
 
 it is cooler than the prior quarter, but if you go back a few more quarters, it's actually -- it's stronger. I mean, this is a healthy 
 
 quarter. 
 
Now, when you put it all together, you have also some inflation data in this report that suggests that inflation continues to cool, and yet growth 
 
 continues to be strong. So, it's sort of looking like, Bianna, that soft landing that everyone was looking for -- the soft landing that the Federal 
 
 Reserve has been trying to engineer. 
 
I talked to Mark Zandi, the Chief Economist of Moody's a few hours ago -- a short time ago, and I asked him, is a report like this illustrative of -- 
 
 maybe the Fed got it right. Maybe they did it. Here's what he said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARK ZANDI, ECONOMIST:  I think we've got to wait until the Federal Reserve actually starts cutting interest rates, which I think is pretty soon. But 
 
 once that happens, then I think we can say, okay, the coast is clear. We soft landed. We made our way through. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON:  So, Bianna, again, 2023 was supposed to be the year of the recession. That is not materializing. That has not materialized in the data 
 
 -- 2024, of course, is a different story. There are still those calls out there, although they have waned as the months have gone on. 
 
I should say that the Federal Reserve's first meeting of 2024 kicks off next week. There's not a lot of hope that we'll start to see rate cuts in 
 
 that meeting, but perhaps in March, certainly a lot more support for a May rate cut. So, we're getting there. We are getting there, Bianna. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  B=Yeah, the European Central Bank also keeping rates unchanged today, though the U.S. economy continues to outshine virtually all other 
 
 developed nations' economies right now. Rahel Solomon, always great to see you. Thank you. 
 
SOLOMON:  Yeah.
 
GOLODRYGA:  Well, coming up -- death, destruction and chaos. An up-close look at life of one of the young Palestinian women who lived through the 
 
 unimaginable in Gaza and lost two of her best friends in the war. 
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
Plus, Republican Presidential Candidate Nikki Haley is facing a tough crowd in her home state ahead of the South Carolina primary. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN:  I think she should drop out, apologize to President Trump, and join forces so we can try to save this country. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA:  "In the name of God, go." Those words from the former Prime Minister of Israel imploring its current leader to resign immediately. Ehud 
 
 Barak says the only way for Israel to avoid sinking into what he's calling the Gaza quagmire is to hold early elections. 
 
In a blistering interview with "The Telegraph", the former Labor Party leader accused Netanyahu of being politically dependent on his far-right 
 
 coalition, comparing him to a hostage. And he said Israel is currently experiencing a vacuum in leadership. And in a separate scathing op-ed in 
 
 "Haaretz", Barak accused the Prime Minister of failing to consider or even discuss post-war plans in Gaza, thereby threatening Israel's security. 
 
 And joining me now is Ehud Barak. Thank you so much for joining me, Mr. Prime Minister. In the "Haaretz" piece, you also go on to write, "For about 
 
 three months now, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has prevented discussion of the day after in the inner cabinet. This is unconscionable. 
 
 Israel needs different leadership. There must be an early election." 
 
Now, that may be easier said than done. As you know, this Prime Minister will likely not leave voluntarily, and despite his unpopularity, it's still 
 
 quite an uphill battle to even call for new elections. 
 
From everything I've read, and you're the expert here, first you would need the 12 Knesset members who joined the emergency war government to leave. 
 
 Then you would need an additional five members of the original 64-member government to leave and join the opposition to only then hold a three-month 
 
 mandatory campaign calling for a new election. That seems to be a lot of ifs and an uphill battle to say the least. Do you see this happening? 
 
EHUD BARAK, FORMER ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER:  Yeah, I see it happening. I don't want to drag the American viewers into the complications of Israeli 
 
 politics. They won't find their way even with my help. It's possible it will become a result of the rage that motivates the families of those who 
 
 were slaughtered, as well as the communities who were forced out of the places. 
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
Some of them lost about 25 percent of members of the community, either had been slaughtered or abducted. So basically, there is a lot of rage there. 
 
 There is a lot, and the public lost any trust in Netanyahu. 
 
Polls are telling us for two months now that 80 percent of adult people in Israel believe that Netanyahu is the main responsible for this 
 
 unprecedented blunder in our history. And 70 percent of the public want him to resign. 
 
So, with this kind of total loss after 110 days of fighting, it's a time to decide who will lead Israel through the next faith, and it should be 
 
 decided through either election or certain process called constructive, no confidence. And one of them will happen in the coming months -- in coming 
 
 several months. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  How is that impacted if in fact maybe the war in Gaza does subside? But we do see the opening of a second front in Lebanon, which 
 
 there's been a lot of concern about as you know, Israel has an unprecedented quarter of a million people who are displaced, if you put 
 
 collectively those that live near the Gaza border and those that live up north. 
 
And there is concern, regardless of how much Hezbollah is willing to escalate this, that this is perhaps a risk Netanyahu is willing to take to 
 
 hold on to his job and to hold on to leadership. 
 
BARAK:  You basically described the truth. There is a significant risk that we will deteriorate into full-scale regional kind of war of treason or war, 
 
 however you call it, with the Hezbollah in the north, probably with terrorists in the West Bank and with the Houthis, which the United States 
 
 and the U.K. are dealing with, and even Iranian-backed militias in Iraq. So, we have the probability of we're being drifted into a much worse 
 
 situation. 
 
But the basic issue is simple. Israel has to remove Hamas from power in Gaza and make sure it cannot threaten us. Number two, Israel does not want 
 
 to stay in Gaza forever. Number three, the Gazans are not going to anywhere. So, as a result of those three elements, we have to find a body 
 
 which is internationally recognized and legitimized to hand over the Gaza Strip to. 
 
This force could only be kind of under coordination with the Americans, made of inter-Arab force that will take it for a limited time and then pass 
 
 it to the Palestinian Authority. This simple reality somehow is ignored by Netanyahu for reason that some of them are politics, some of them are 
 
 ideology. It doesn't matter. That's the only practical way. 
 
And as long as he does not accept this reality and Israel cannot run even the regional war that you have just mentioned with Hezbollah and others 
 
 without the close coordination with the United States. United States provide our munitions. United States provide the deterrence against Iran 
 
 and Hezbollah. United States provide the protection for Israel, safety net in the U.N. Security Council and even certain support Criminal Court in The 
 
 Hague.
 
So, basically we cannot run it without America. Netanyahu is planning to lead it into a kind of climbing down from the trees and instead of 
 
 admitting that he is unable to run the situation, he will blame President Biden, he will blame the leadership of the IDF, he will blame the 
 
 opposition leader and probably even myself. 
 
So, basically we are in a tough situation. But on the Israeli side, the cork stuck at the bottleneck and prevent us from doing the right thing is 
 
 exactly Netanyahu and his two racist messianic, mischiever, Smotrich and Ben-Gurion. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  So, as you know, I don't have to tell you, President Biden is far more popular in Israel right now than Prime Minister Netanyahu. And 
 
 thus far, President Biden has resisted the call by even some supporters of Israel in the Congress to either put some parameters on the aid that Israel 
 
 continues to receive through the United States or publicly speak of more -- much more tough love when it comes to some of these decisions that he has 
 
 to implement the day after, what leadership will look like, the road to a two-state solution. Do you think that President Biden should be doing more 
 
 of that now? 
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
BARAK:  You know, I now think that it would be fair to ask President Biden, who did, more than anyone -- anyone in the White House in the past, to ask 
 
 him to do more. It's upon us, the Israelis, to stand up from our sofas and make sure that what's needed will happen. It has to do in a certain way by 
 
 the political leaders of the opposition. 
 
Basically, when I try to convince people in Israel, stand up and let's fight for our future --our collective future. They tell me, what me, the 
 
 ordinary citizen, knows that Eisenkot and Gantz, the leaders of the opposition who joined the cabinet war, do not know, or that President 
 
 Herzog doesn't know, or Lapid, who is the head of opposition, doesn't know, Lieberman, who is another leader in the opposition, doesn't know. 
 
As long as they are quiet, I, the ordinary citizen, feel that the time has not yet come. I think it had come, and that's the reason why I called for 
 
 election, not just calling for something abstract. I call upon Gantz and Eisenkot, the two generals, former heads of the IDF, who are now 
 
 politicians, which have joined, probably rightly so, the war cabinet, to stand up and tell Netanyahu, we demand to set a -- election date at most, 
 
 early June. And we are calling upon other leaders of the opposition, other members and the whole public to stand up and demand it. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Mr. Prime Minister, before you go, I want to get you to respond to what's being reported that the directors of the Mossad, the CIA and 
 
 Qatar's Prime Minister, reportedly expected to meet in Europe this weekend once again to discuss the Gaza ceasefire in exchange for the remaining 
 
 hostages and their release. 
 
What is your response and reaction to what is reported to be Prime Minister Netanyahu speaking in leaked audio, really chastising the role of Qatar in 
 
 this? Do you find that productive and helpful at this point?
 
BARAK:  It's a great mistake, but nowadays Netanyahu is out of balance. He makes many mistakes along the way, and this is only one of them. It's a 
 
 mistake. It shouldn't have been done. 
 
The Qataris are short of perfect, and they bear heavy responsibility to many events in the Middle East, including in regard to the Hamas. But 
 
 Netanyahu is the one who set a strategy which collapsed on the 7th of October, saying that Hamas is an asset and the Palestinian Authority, the 
 
 only internationally recognized legitimate player, which is also short of perfect, he said Hamas is an asset and the Palestinian Authority is 
 
 liability. 
 
And he helped Qatar to pay protection money, I call it, to the Hamas over five years, some $1.5 billion, which financed this tunnel operation and 
 
 these heavy, heavy kind of weaponizing of Hamas and even the Tuwali. 
 
So, he's directly responsible to what happened with Qatar. So in a way, he's the last person who can complain about the role which now, in regard 
 
 to the hostage relief, is positive role. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yeah, no doubt, according to reporting from multiple sources, he did green light the billions of dollars in aid over a number of years. 
 
 Former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak, thank you so much for your time. We appreciate it. 
 
BARAK: Thank you, Bianna, for having me. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Well, since the war in Gaza broke out, 20-year-old Nowara Diab has lost her two best friends, who she says were killed by Israeli 
 
 airstrikes. Diab and her family were forced to flee their home in northern Gaza and have moved too many times to count. Now, in Rafah, Diab describes 
 
 the life and friendships lost since October 7th. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOWARA DIAB, DISPLACED 20-YEAR-OLD PALESTINIAN IN GAZA (voice-over):  As I walk on the streets in Gaza, death, destruction, and chaos is all around 
 
 me. I often think about how my life could have been, and how I would still have a home, and how my two best friends, Maimana and Abraham, would still 
 
 be alive. 
 
DIAB:  My heart aches every single day for Maimana and Abraham who were killed in their homes by the Israeli air strikes. 
 
DIAB (voice-over):  Maimana was a beautiful soul and so creative. I'd always brag about how great she was. We talked for hours on end, talking 
 
 about anything and everything, or just being silly. 
 
DIAB:  Is it me or are we best friends? 
 
Maimana:  Yeah. 
 
DIAB (voice-over):  Every moment with her was full of love and laughter. Her talent for painting was extraordinary. 
 <br>[12:30:00]
 
This painting of a yellow flower will always hold a special place in my heart. Little did I know, it would be her last gift to me. It broke my 
 
 heart having to leave it behind, just like I had to leave her. 
 
Abraham was the most kind and funny person I'd ever met, not to mention also, the smartest. 
 
DIAB:  This kingdom needs a king. 
 
DIAB (voice-over):  We got to know each other when working on a play about King Odysseus at a theater project in Gaza. He played the role of a king 
 
 and would just make everyone laugh, and was rarely seen without his camera capturing the good times. 
 
DIAB:  But with both of them gone, I don't think that there will be any good moments. I need them so much right now and I need them more than ever. 
 
 But I know that they are now in a better place. I just know. 
 
DIAB (voice-over):  Now, life in Rafah is hard. I wake up trying to survive another day. Thankfully, my family and I are alive. For two weeks, we 
 
 stayed in a tent in Khan Younis shared by seven people. Water is the hardest thing to ever find here. Rarely, bottles are given to us, like this 
 
 on a truck. But with so little, we were forced to drink salty water for a while. 
 
DIAB:  So, if we don't die from airstrikes, we're going to die from dehydration and starvation. When this war is over, there's another one 
 
 waiting for us. The agony in our hearts, going back home and seeing everything crumbled into pieces. 
 
Gone just like the tens of thousands of Palestinian men, women, and children killed in this war. I hope that my story has meant something to 
 
 you and you can think of us as human beings, not just numbers, because this is me giving you a sneak peek into hell. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  A 20-year-old bravely telling her story about life during war, which involved sadly the loss of two best friends. Well, the Israel Defense 
 
 Forces say they do not target civilians and that their war is against Hamas, not the people of Gaza. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Welcome back to ONE WORLD. I'm Bianna Golodryga. Lawyers for E. Jean Carroll have referenced their case in her civil trial against Donald 
 
 Trump. The jury has to decide now how much the former President will have to pay Carroll for defamatory statements about her in 2019. She's seeking 
 
 at least $10 million. 
 
During witness testimony, Trump was heard making comments, which led him to be admonished by the judge. Lawyers also played video clips of Donald Trump 
 
 making disparaging statements about Carroll. 
 
Well, next up is the defense, but no word yet if, when, or if at all Trump will testify himself. Reminder, he doesn't have to be there. Their first 
 
 witness is a TV reporter and friend of E. Jean Carroll. 
 
Well, the final two Republican presidential candidates are making a push to win South Carolina primary. Nikki Haley campaigning in her home state 
 
 today, while Donald Trump, as you just saw, is in court defending himself in his defamation trial. Sources tell CNN that Trump is seething, that 
 
 Haley has yet to drop out. 
 
Overnight, Trump unleashed on Haley, threatening to blacklist her donors from the MAGA camp if they keep giving her money. Well, today, Haley is 
 
 trying to convince voters in South Carolina that she is the best person to lead the country. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  This is a choice between more of the same or going forward. More of the same is not just Joe Biden, 
 
 more of the same is Joe Biden and Donald Trump. When you look at Joe Biden and Donald Trump, what do they talk about? They talk about the past. They 
 
 talk about grievances. They're focused on their investigations, both of them. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Well, it appears Haley has a lot of work to do in the state she once governed. Dianne Gallagher shows us how Trump's support runs deep in 
 
 the Deep South. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  At Coastal Coffee Roasters in Summerville, a cup of coffee this time of year comes with a 
 
 splash of politics. 
 
UNKNOWN:  It's been a rough few years. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  We'll head out to South Carolina where I think we're going to win easily. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  Nikki Haley fresh off another decisive loss to former President Donald Trump, looking to voters in the state that elected 
 
 her governor twice to keep her in this race. 
 
HALEY:  But South Carolina voters don't want a coronation. They want an election. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  But voters here, over and over again, told us they've already made their choice. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Donald Trump, 200 percent
 
UNKNOWN:  I'll be voting for Donald Trump. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  Support for Trump remains strong with Republicans in South Carolina, despite his legal troubles and the fact it's now a one-
 
 on-one race with their former governor. 
 
UNKNOWN:  I just think that Trump is a stronger presidential figure than she is. 
 
UNKNOWN:  I think she should drop out, apologize to President Trump and join forces so we can try to save this country. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  Voters frequently citing Trump's long list of high-profile South Carolina endorsements. 
 
TIM SCOTT, U.S. REPUBLICAN SENATOR:  This election is over. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  None more than Senator Tim Scott, who was appointed by Haley in 2012. 
 
UNKNOWN:  I think there's going to be a surprise where I think Trump's going to landslide, light it, yeah, I do. With Tim Scott backing him, I do. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  But not everyone is ready to forfeit the race. Stephanie Bennett says she's technically undecided but likes Haley.
 
UNKNOWN:  It's her track record as the governor here and then what she did on the United Nations. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  And yet she's worried in a month her vote won't matter. 
 
UNKNOWN:  I wonder if people aren't going to go into it with a preconceived notion of he's already won. You know, with -- I just -- that is a fear. 
 
 Like get out and vote. Don't think he's already won because I don't think he has. 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  A similar concern about half an hour down the road from William Cogswell, the first Republican elected as mayor of Charleston 
 
 in over a century. 
 
WILLIAM COGSWELL, CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA:  There seems to be the attitude that it is a foregone conclusion. I think she brings a breath of 
 
 fresh air and I think our country needs that. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  He endorsed Haley back in November and still believes in her campaign. 
 
COGSWELL:  I think she is a fighter. She has beat the odds repeatedly. 
 
GALLAGHER (voice-over):  The Dorchester Republican Party Chair Steven Wright, who says he's remaining neutral for now, believes even with a month 
 
 to go, Haley may already be out of time. 
 
STEVEN WRIGHT, REPUBLICAN PARTY CHAIR, DORCHESTER COUNTY:  I think people like Nikki Haley but South Carolina is Trump country. The polls indicate 
 
 that. The enthusiasm on the ground indicate that. 
 
GALLAGHER:  Now, the Haley campaign insists they're not going anywhere. They have two ads up on the air already, part of a $4 million buy. They 
 
 have a Wednesday night rally and several other campaign events over the next couple of days. And when we talked to her supporters, many of them 
 
 said simple things like democracy and choice are part of why they want her to stay in. 
 
But they did admit that when they think about what could happen if she does lose her home state in a landslide, they worry it could negatively impact 
 
 any sort of future political campaigns for her. Dianne Gallagher, CNN. Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Our thanks to Dianne. Time now for The Exchange and a closer look at the presidential race in the upcoming primary. Joining me now is 
 
 former Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson who suspended his campaign for president earlier this month. 
 
Governor, thanks for joining us. You're the perfect person for this interview, especially coming out of that segment. You know the Deep South 
 
 well. Do you think Nikki Haley still has a chance in this month to catch up to Donald Trump and win in her home state, where she's trailing him now by 
 
 30 points? 
 
ASA HUTCHINSON, FORMER ARKANSAS GOVERNOR:  Well, she does, even though it is uphill. And I do know the South, but I also know South Carolina. I 
 
 actually went to college there. I have connections there. I've campaigned there. And Trump does have the significant lead in the polls. 
 
There's a couple of things that could change the dynamics. First of all, Trump overplays his hand. He's already gone on such severe personal attacks 
 
 on Nikki Haley and that could cause a backlash of pride there in South Carolina. Whenever he is promising to ostracize anybody who supports Nikki 
 
 Haley, clearly it demonstrates he wants to have a revenge presidency. 
 
And the other thing is that Nikki's going to have to campaign hard, not just in South Carolina, but she's got to identify those states like 
 
 Michigan and other places that she can make the inroads, bring in the independents. 
 
The case that she can bring in independent voters makes sense because that's the weakness of Donald Trump when it comes to general election. 
 
 Republicans want to win and that's what they're going to have to evaluate who can best lead them.
 
GOLODRYGA:  Well, it makes sense in a general election versus going with their gut favorite right now. I mean, that seems to be the debate right 
 
 now. And there's an allegiance to Donald Trump, no matter what you explain to voters about his continued problems in a general election that doesn't 
 
 seem to generate -- to resonate yet. 
 
You and Chris Christie are, I believe, the only former candidates vying for the Republican nomination that have not thrown your support behind Donald 
 
 Trump. We've seen Tim Scott now do it, obviously Lindsey Graham, Marco Rubio, John Cornyn, Ron DeSantis. 
 
Nikki Haley says this is not a coronation, but there are those in the party with a lot of authority in the Senate today that are saying now it is time 
 
 to coalesce around one candidate to unify the party. Why do you think they're doing it so soon?
 
HUTCHINSON:  Well, because they see Donald Trump is inevitable and they want to jump on that bandwagon, but that's very unfortunate. First of all, 
 
 he's a -- we've lost with him twice in the previous election cycles where we lost the Senate and we do not do well. And so, that has to be 
 
 considered. 
 
But also, they just get in too much of a hurry. This, to wrap it up, shortly after New Hampshire has never been done before. And so, we do need 
 
 a contest. We've got to test the metal on our candidates. And Trump is like an incumbent, and he's perceived in that way, and his strength is growing. 
 
 But that has to be evaluated over time with all the challenges that he has. 
 
And so, let's have a legitimate contest. 
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
Nikki Haley has proven that she can win with knocking out me and the other candidates. And not like Senator Susan Collins who has not endorsed Donald 
 
 Trump yet. And I don't expect her to. 
 
And so, there's a significant part of the Republican Party says he's going to be very dangerous for our country in a second four-year term. And I look 
 
 at our allies abroad, they're looking for some continuity. They are looking for strength in America and trusted allies. I think we can go a better 
 
 direction than Donald Trump in that way. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yeah, some of our allies abroad, I just came back from Davos, are very nervous about what a second Trump term could look like given all 
 
 of the grievances that he's publicly laid out and some of the projections that he's made and things that he said that he would do in a second term. 
 
 Governor Asa Hutchinson, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
HUTHINSON:  It's good to be with you today. Thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Thank you. Well, coming up for us, emotional testimony from a teacher wounded in a Michigan school shooting. The historic trial that 
 
 could see the shooter's parents punished for what their son did. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Happening today in Michigan, a trial that could be making history as a convicted high school shooter's parents are facing criminal 
 
 charges in connection with their son's actions. Jennifer Crumbley's trial continued with opening statements. 
 
The prosecution says she may not have pulled the trigger that day, but she is responsible for those deaths. Her 15-year-old son, Ethan, shot and 
 
 killed four high school students in 2021. Both his parents are charged with involuntary manslaughter. 
 
Jean Casarez has been following the story and joins us now. Jean, we've been talking throughout the day about the precedent-setting case this 
 
 really is. Explain for our viewers how and why. 
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, this is the first time that parents in this country have been charged with homicide, involuntary manslaughter 
 
 that they caused the death because of the gross negligence that they exhibited toward their son. 
 
Prosecutors saying that he showed that he had mental issues, he was in his room all the time, alone, no friends. And they did nothing about it, but 
 
 what they did do was they purchased him a gun on November 26. 
 
Now, since this is a homicide case, they are having some victims -- some surviving victims take the stand. One was Molly Darnell. She was an 
 
 educator at the school. She, by luck, survived, but she was shot by Ethan Crumbley, the shooter, in the shoulder. And she testified because an 
 
 element of involuntary manslaughter is the jury has to believe beyond a reasonable doubt that the parents caused the death of these four students 
 
 that died. Listen to her emotional testimony. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN:  You just described you saw something in your peripheral vision. You looked up. You locked eyes. 
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
MOLLY DARNELL, OXFORD HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER WHO SURVIVED SHOOTING:  I locked eyes. He didn't hesitate. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Okay. About how long was that from the time you saw the peripheral vision and then the gun was raised? 
 
DARNELL:  A second. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Okay.
 
DARNELL:  If that, I kind of jumped and turned my body this way at the same time. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Okay and for the record, you're motioning, turning your shoulders to the right. 
 
DARNELL:  To the right. And I feel like my left shoulder moves back a bit, and I feel a burn like hot water had stung me. I had texted my husband, I 
 
 love you, active shooter, and then I started feeling blood dripping down my arm. I have to tell you something very unusual that happened in the 
 
 courtroom today. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CASAREZ:  I have to tell you something very unusual that happened in the courtroom today after this testimony and then another, the Vice Principal -
 
 - Assistant Principal testified -- emotional testimony at the school that day. The prosecutor, after the jury left, argues so strongly, she says, 
 
 your honor, the defense attorney is sobbing during this testimony. 
 
We can't have this emotion because they don't want to taint the trial. And the defense attorney said, look, I'm human. I'm trying my best. But this is 
 
 horrific testimony. Very unusual for the defense to be sobbing. And she said she wasn't sobbing, crying, in regard to this testimony of these 
 
 victims. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Fascinating. Of course, we'll be watching for the decision in this case very closely. Jean Casarez, thank you. 
 
CASAREZ:  Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA:  And we'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Japan has recently crowned a new Miss Japan 2024. It's a move that's sparking some debate. The winner is a 26-year-old Ukrainian-born 
 
 model, Karolina Shino. Miss Shino, along with her family, moved to Japan about 20 years ago and is a naturalized citizen. Her victory is shedding 
 
 light on what it means to be Japanese. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAROLINA SHINO, MISS JAPAN 2024 (through translator):  I believe the Japanese spirit doesn't manifest itself in the body but rather in the soul. 
 
 I hope to continue passing on the true Japanese spirit to create a society that respects who people are without passing judgment on appearances.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Also, Ozzy Osbourne is planning to end his touring days with a proper goodbye to his fans with two final concerts. 
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
("MAMA, I'M COMING HOME" BY OZZY OSBOURNE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Osborne's wife Sharon told Rolling Stone U.K. that he will perform in Birmingham, England, the city where he grew up. The 75-year-old 
 
 singer has had health issues in recent years, needing several surgeries after a fall in 2019. His wife says Ozzy's voice is absolutely perfect and 
 
 that he's ready to give his fans a legendary send off.
 
Well, that does it for this hour of ONE WORLD. I'm Bianna Golodryga. Thank you so much for watching. Amanpour is up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END