Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: President Yoon Under Fire Over Martial Law Decree; Lawmakers Vote to Oust PM Michel Barnier; Embattled Defense Secretary Pick Pete Hegseth Vows to Fight On; Manhunt Under Way After CEO's Killing in New York; Bleak Outlook in Southern Lebanon as Tenuous Truce Holds; Russia Warns of 'Stronger Military Means' in Ukraine. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired December 05, 2024 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:00:36]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, I'm Paula Newton, live in Atlanta. Ahead right here on CNN Newsroom.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What would you like to say to President Yoon?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: F(bleep) you. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Growing calls for South Korea's president to resign or be impeached after his failed attempt to impose martial law. 
 
France's Prime Minister is being forced to resign after the left and right unite to pass a no-confidence vote.
 
And a manhunt is right now underway for the person suspected of shooting and killing a health insurance CEO in midtown Manhattan. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN Newsroom with Paula Newton.
 
NEWTON: So the future of South Korea's President hangs in the balance after his abrupt martial law declaration that plunged the capital into chaos. Lawmakers in Seoul are debating whether to impeach Yoon Suk Yeol with a vote expected in the next few days.
 
Now, members of his People Power Party say they will oppose the motion, although AFP is reporting that Yoon has been asked to actually leave his party. Lawmakers and protesters descended on Parliament late Tuesday after Yoon's declaration only to be met by hundreds of soldiers. The president rescinded his martial law decree a few hours later amid fierce opposition.
 
South Korea's Defense Minister is the latest political casualty from this debacle. President Yoon accepted his resignation early Thursday. CNN's Anna Coren has been following the latest developments for us, and she joins us now from Hong Kong.
 
I mean, Anna, look, the country, there's no question, is still reeling from all of these developments. Do we expect to hear from President Yoon today? I mean, we've not heard from him since all of this went down. And what are the expectations about his impeachment?
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Paula, there was expectation that he would address the media this morning, but that has not transpired. It's just gone 2 p.m. in Seoul. But what we are learning from local media is that impeachment vote will take place Saturday 7 p.m. These are local media reports. And the reason they're delaying it by a day is to give the opposition Democratic Party, which holds majority in parliament, time to win over votes from the minority-ruling People's Power Party. The PPP have come out. They've rejected the impeachment bill against President Yoon.
 
But, you know, President Yoon, he is refusing to resign, and his party cannot force him out. The opposition, Paula, they need to win over eight votes to get a two-thirds majority to pass that impeachment bill. 
 
It's a big call, but it's not out of the question, especially if the public protests, which we have seen, continue. And there are expectations that they are only going to ramp up as the weekend approaches. 
 
Now, before we recap on the political upheaval, which has been labeled by some as a coup attempt by the president, right now, as you mentioned, a plenary session is happening in parliament. We heard from the martial law commander, who said he did not give orders to enforce martial law.
 
We also heard from the Vice Defense Minister, who said that he learned about martial law through media reports. As you mentioned, the defense minister, who resigned a few hours ago, it appears that he recommended martial law to President Yoon, who then made that declaration. 
 
But let's have a listen to an opposition lawmaker who spoke earlier today. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KIM SEUNG-WON, SOUTH KOREAN MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT (through translator): It was a moment of military treason that we considered disappeared in the history he has committed an unforgivable sin.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: President Yoon, you know, his approval ratings, they fell below 20% last month. He's been engulfed in scandals, you know, some involving his wife. He's struggled to push through his agenda because of that opposition the majority holds in the National Assembly, which he has described in becoming a monster. He even implied that its members were collaborating with North Korean communist forces, obviously without providing any evidence. After martial law was declared, banning political activity and censoring media on Tuesday night, armed troops attempted to force their way into the National Assembly building. And that's where they were confronted by members of parliament and then thousands of protesters.
 <br>[00:05:08]
 
And then, of course, six hours later, martial law was withdrawn. Last night, we saw protests and vigils throughout the country. And we have to remember, Paula, the reason this is such a big issue is because we have South Korea is Asia's fourth largest democracy. It is a key ally to the United States. There are 28,000 U.S. troops stationed there. Not even the U.S., its closest ally, was warned in advance of this declaration of martial law. And we heard a short time ago from U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Kurt Campbell, who said that Yoon had sadly misjudged his martial law declaration. It obviously, you know, caught everybody off guard.
 
And we also have to remember that this country is a beacon of democracy in the world. And it's come so far, you know, since its days of authoritarian rule. Back in the 1980s, it was under military rule, which is why if President Yoon refuses to step down or he isn't impeached, I think it's guaranteed that civil unrest and protests will certainly continue.
 
NEWTON: Yeah, and as you point out, Anna, right, they are already organizing for this in the next few days and afternoon right now, Asia time. Anna Coren, you'll continue to keep us up to date as we watch developments closely there in South Korea. Appreciate it.
 
Jean H. Lee is an Adjunct Fellow at the East-West Center and former Pyongyang Bureau Chief for the Associated Press. And she joins me now from Honolulu, Hawaii.
 
I mean, look, still incredible events that we watch unfold hour by hour there in South Korea. The anatomy of this political crisis yet to be revealed to people, really. And that seems even to the majority of South Koreans that it is mystifying, not to mention the lawmakers themselves. What is your take, your sober second thought on what happened here and what led to it?
 
JEAN H. LEE, ADJUNCT FELLOW, EAST-WEST CENTER: Yeah, I should point out that I was also the Bureau Chief in Seoul. So I spent many years in South Korea and spent, of course, all my life going back and forth. And I will say that I was woken up here in Honolulu at 4:00 in the morning with this news alert the other night.
 
And when you see the words martial law, it just strikes fear. You think, has North Korea invaded? Is there a war? It's a reminder that this region is a tinderbox. When I did watch the events unfold, it was shocking. This is something that older South Koreans may remember.
 
And it's a reminder that democracy is really only a generation old, that it's a young democracy. But I would say that the way that it wrapped up so quickly, six hours of martial law before it was turned over, also shows that it's a resilient democracy. 
 
Now, I think the South Koreans are tough. They're resilient. They are also people who want to hold their leaders accountable. So I know that they will take to the streets. We've seen it before. It is freezing cold in South Korea right now. But they have a history of standing up to authoritarianism. And I'm sure we will see that again.
 
NEWTON: They have certainly seemed just so engaged on the streets of Seoul from what we've seen. You speak certainly about the resiliency of that democracy. I want you to listen now to Secretary of State Antony Blinken and what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Korea has been an extraordinary story, an extraordinary success story over the last three or four decades. And the story that it tells of building this strong democracy and one, again, where we see the institutions functioning as they should.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Functioning as they should. And yet, I do want to ask you, what do you see as the risks going forward in the coming days? And do they all hinge on President Yoon if he decides he's not going to resign?
 
LEE: It is about that issue of accountability and stability. We should remember that South Korea is one of the world's major global economies, the world's 10th or 11th largest economy. It is also situated right smack dab in the middle of a very tense region.
 
And so economic and security stability is essential in South Korea, in this region. And I think that that's part of the calculation that the president is making. This is still political upheaval. It's still a political issue. It's a polarized country. So he may also be thinking, what decisions do I need to make to maintain my party's hold on power? 
 
But I have to say that they have to move quickly in some fashion to reassure allies, to reassure their own people that this instability, this political upheaval won't go on. Again, you know, we saw in 2016 what we called the candlelight revolution, when, again, in the middle of the night and in the freezing weather, people of all ages, children to grannies, went out with candles to march to protest their president with what they thought was egregious corruption. And so we've seen them sweep leaders from office.
 <br>[00:10:17]
 
I'm waiting to see. The president has not emerged. I am waiting to see what kind of accountability he takes, how the party responds in the next few days. As you may have mentioned, with impeachment, the opposition would need to woo at least eight of the ruling party legislators over to their side. So lots developing, I think. We'll see things happen -- we'll see things unfold over the next couple of days, for sure. NEWTON: Yeah, probably over the next few hours. Given your expertise in North Korea, I do want to get your analysis of that. Before we do that, I want you to listen to the opposition leader here.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEE JAE-MYUNG, DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF KOREA LEADER (through translator): The risk of provoking North Korea and eventually leading to military conflict is significantly high. Dear citizens, we need your vigilance and solidarity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: You know, you mentioned it yourself, just the powder keg that the entire region is at. How do you believe North Korea is interpreting all of this right now? And do you believe they will see it as weakness in South Korea?
 
LEE: This is one of the things that concerns me, is any kind of instability certainly could provide an opening or an opportunity for North Korea. I do think this is part of the calculation. North Korea has been trying to find a way to disrupt and create a sense of anxiety in South Korea.
 
They've really been targeting South Korea. And the South Korean people, remember, they have been flying these balloons filled with garbage over the border. And so there has been an extensive campaign by the North Koreans to create this sense of anxiety.
 
So this has to be part of the calculation is, does this instability provide an opening for North Korea? Does it show weakness that could give the North Koreans an opportunity? So that has to be part of the calculation. Certainly part of the concern in Washington, in Tokyo, and elsewhere.
 
NEWTON: But it might also be the impetus, hopefully, for them to try and find some kind of compromise to, as you point out, have been incredibly divisive politics. Jean H. Lee, we will leave it there for now, but really appreciate it. 
 
LEE: Thank you.
 
NEWTON: Now, France is now facing its own political chaos. President Emmanuel Macron will address the nation on Thursday as he works to name a new prime minister. 
 
Now, Prime Minister Michel Barnier is expected to resign in the coming hours after left- and right-wing lawmakers united to support a no- confidence vote against him, mostly over his proposed annual budget for next year.
 
CNN's Jim Bittermann reports now from Paris.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The government of Michel Barnier forced to resign, not only the Prime Minister himself, but all the rest of his ministers, after a vote of no confidence in the National Assembly. 331 people voted against the government. It only takes 288 to oust the government in the rules of the National Assembly.
 
So Michel Barnier and his ministers are out. They will probably take over in a caretaker role until some new prime minister can be named. The President of France, Emmanuel Macron, will be the person who has to find that new prime minister.
 
He arrived back in France just an hour before the voting tonight from Saudi Arabia, where he was on a diplomatic mission. It's unclear if he's going to be able to find someone who will be able to please all the factions within the divided, the much-divided French parliament. Before the vote was taken tonight, Michel Barnier stood up and told the members of the National Assembly that he was honored to have served, but, in fact, they were going to do something that would have some very, very drastic consequences.
 
Here's what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHEL BARNIER, FRENCH PRIME MINISTER (through translator): What I'm sure, ladies and gentlemen, what I say seriously before you is that this motion of no confidence, at the moment when you are probably preparing this coalition of opposites, this no confidence motion will make everything more serious and more difficult. I'm sure of it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BITTERMANN: So the caretaker government will take care of things until there's a new prime minister that has been named. It will be a prime minister who will almost certainly be challenged once again by this parliament, because the vote tonight was, in fact, very much against President Macron as much as it was against Michel Barnier. 
 
So another prime minister has to be named, and we'll just see if that is someone who could be pleasing to all sides of the various factions in the National Assembly.
 
Jim Bittermann, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:15:03]
 
NEWTON: Donald Trump's embattled pick for U.S. Defense Secretary is vowing to fight on amid growing controversy. Pete Hegseth held a series of meetings with Republicans on Wednesday, but concern over a series of misconduct allegations against the former Fox News anchor. It's not dying down, Hegseth says, he has the president-elect's support.
 
Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PETE HEGSETH, TRUMP'S PICK FOR U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: I spoke to the president-elect this morning. He said, keep going, keep fighting. I'm going to win.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: But sources tell CNN Trump is already considering other options. Hegseth denies all the allegations against him, including claims he mismanaged a veterans group and it was publicly intoxicated at work events and sexually assaulted a woman. Iowa Senator Joni Ernst was one of the Republicans who met with Hegseth Wednesday, but she wouldn't say much about their conversation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Senator will you support Mr. Hegseth's nomination?
 
SEN. JONI ERNST, (R) IOWA: It was a frank and thorough conversation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Michael Genovese is a Political Analyst and President of the Global Policy Institute at Loyola Marymount. He's also the author of "The Modern Presidency: Six Debates that Define the Institution." And he joins us now from Los Angeles. 
 
Very good to see you. And not a dull moment, whether it's in Mar-a- Lago or Capitol Hill. So, Hegseth made the rounds today. We just saw that. But he also sat down with Megyn Kelly for nearly an hour and really tried to portray himself as the victim through all of this. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HEGSETH: That's what they're trying to do to you. That's their playbook. Get ready for more. And they're going to make it up, just like they have so far. All anonymous, all innuendo, all rumor, nothing sourced, no verification.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: You know, Michael, could this work, not just with MAGA allies, but crucially with people on Capitol Hill, the senators that he needs to be confirmed by them, right?
 
MICHAEL GENOVESE, POLITICAL ANALYST: You know, he's desperately trying to save a teetering nomination. And his chances seem to be from slim to none. This is an incredibly serious post. It's the Defense Secretary. Too serious a post to be given to an unserious man. And that's the consensus in Washington, D.C., that he is not serious. And that some of these charges, he's not been formally charged with anything. And we should presume he's innocent until proven guilty. But there are so many questions. And there is precedent for this. In 1989, George H.W. Bush nominated John Tower to be defense secretary. He lost in a vote with the Senate, 47 to 53. The charges against Tower, womanizing and alcohol. The same things that are being said about Hegseth. So he's in real trouble. And it's hard to see him pulling out with any success.
 
NEWTON: It's interesting because he continues to say that he does have the confidence of the President-elect. I do want to point out that beyond his personal life, what has just been outlined, this was always going to be a contentious choice. For starters, he has said openly that he does not believe women should be in combat. 
 
I want you to listen to the current defense secretary on that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: And everywhere that I've gone on the battlefield, I've seen women fighting for America. And they are incredibly capable, incredibly accomplished, and incredibly brave. If I get a little fired up about this, it's just because this isn't 1950. It isn't 1948. It is 2024.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: You know, powerful comments there. And when I listen to those comments, again, I go back to Capitol Hill, right? When we look at perhaps the women, the senators, who are going to have to look them in the eye and say, is this the best choice for the Defense Secretary in 2024?
 
GENOVESE: You know, we in the United States are suffering from a kind of male status anxiety, where males generally feel threatened by the rise of women. In the Senate, it's going to take 50 votes to get approved. He doesn't have that many votes, especially because there are several women in the Senate who have been not very critical at this point, but have been very suspicious.
 
He has to get approval of these women, Republican women. If he's going to get approved, it just doesn't look like that's in the cards. He's someone really, as your previous person said, someone from the 1950s, not from today.
 
NEWTON: You know, as someone said, and this is a MAGA ally, you know, you don't need, Mr. Hegseth, to blow up the Pentagon. Other people will also do it. I do want you to listen, though, to kind of the philosophy that he's following, something that he says he's doing because it's what the president wants him to do.
 
Listen.
 <br>[00:20:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HEGSETH: That's what Donald Trump asked me to do. Your job is to bring a warfighting ethos back to the Pentagon. Your job is to make sure that it's lethality, lethality, lethality. Everything else is gone.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Everything else is gone. I mean, Michael, I wonder what you think in terms of when we discuss, OK, if it's not just his candidacy and he pulls out or he is not confirmed. How serious do you believe the President-elect is of getting someone with that ethos, right, that he just articulated there into the Pentagon?
 
GENOVESE: Well, Donald Trump likes to blow things up. Chaos is his friend. And so what he wants to do is make radical changes for the sake of change. Some of these changes are probably necessary, but a lot of them are just to basically create more chaos so that Donald Trump can come in and take command. 
 
And so Donald Trump is dead serious about this, but there are better vehicles to do what Donald Trump wants than Hegseth. I mean, if you want him to fail, Trump to fail in defense, you want Hegseth because he probably can't do the job. There are some very capable people that have already been mentioned as a replacement in Plan B who could do what Donald Trump wants to do. And Donald Trump wants to basically pull the plug on a lot of this.
 
NEWTON: Yeah, and the bottom line is we just discussed what was going on in South Korea where there are nearly 30,000 American troops. Who's the person you want in the room when all of a sudden you find out that South Korea has declared martial law? 
 
Michael, we will leave it there for now, but I'm sure we'll have more discussions as these nominees continue to come up. Appreciate it.
 
GENOVESE: Thank you, Paula.
 
NEWTON: Now, we are more than 17 hours now into a manhunt that's underway in New York where the CEO of a major health care company was gunned down on the street. Police believe it was a targeted attack and it was caught on camera, as you can see there. 
 
Now, this video obtained by "The New York Times" appears to show suspected gunmen arriving minutes before the shooting while talking on a cell phone.
 
CNN's Brynn Gingras has more. And a warning, some of the images you are about to see are quite graphic.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Stunning new video obtained by CNN showing the moments a gunman carries out a brazen attack in the heart of New York City. At about 6.40 a.m., the suspect waiting for Brian Thompson, the CEO of UnitedHealthcare, and then firing several shots, killing him. 
 
COMMISSIONER JESSICA TISCH, NEW YORK CITY POLICE: I want to be clear. At this time, every indication is that this was a premeditated, preplanned, targeted attack. GINGRAS: Police say that gunman camped out for about five minutes
 
 before Thompson arrived. You can see from these images he's wearing a mask, hooded sweatshirt, and backpack. Sources say a silencer was attached to his handgun. 
 
Police say he watched as people walked by and then at approximately 6.45 a.m., fired at Thompson from behind, hitting him before the gun jams.
 
JOSEPH KENNY, CHIEF OF DETECTIVES, NEW YORK CITY POLICE: It appears that the gun malfunctions as he clears the jam and begins to fire again.
 
GINGRAS: He fires another shot, then the suspect fled, likely following this route, according to police, down a back alley of a Midtown theater before jumping on an electric bike. Police losing his track after he entered Central Park.
 
KENNY: We're still tracking video. There are GPSs on those bikes. We'll be working with the company.
 
GINGRAS: Investigators also recovering a cell phone, three shell casings at the scene, and are asking the public for help in identifying the gunman. Police also releasing these images of what appears to be the gunman in a Starbucks shortly before the shooting. 
 
50-year-old Thompson was the CEO of the health insurance unit within the Minnesota-based UnitedHealth Group. He arrived in New York City on Monday for an investors conference. As of now, police don't believe he and the gunman crossed paths until this morning and are still searching for a motive. 
 
Thompson's wife, Paulette, told "NBC News," quote, there had been some threats, but she didn't know why. Thompson was father of two boys. His wife also released a statement saying, "Brian was an incredibly loving, generous, talented man who truly lived life to the fullest and touched so many lives."
 
ANDREW WITTY, CEO, UNITED HEALTH GROUP: There are no words to describe how so many of us are feeling right now. Brian was a truly extraordinary person who touched the lives of countless people throughout our organization and far beyond.
 
GINGRAS: The brazen murder happening at the start of morning rush hour in an area of New York City crawling with tourists for the holiday season.
 
MICHELLE WYCKOFF, HILTON HOTEL GUEST: So we just heard sirens going off. I thought, oh, gosh, what's going on? I did not think it was actually right here.
 
KENNY: You know, we really don't know what it was about, but we're shocked that somebody would be killed in broad daylight in New York. That's really quite shocking.
 
GINGRAS: Brynn Gingras, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Still ahead for us, heavy damage and anger toward Israel. CNN asks people in southern Lebanon about their hopes for the future amid the fragile ceasefire.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:27:02]
 
NEWTON: Now to the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Amnesty International says there is enough evidence to accuse Israel of genocide in the enclave. The rights group's latest report details numerous instances of mass killings and other atrocities.
 
Amnesty International says it can only infer that genocidal intent has been part of Israel's conduct in Gaza since the October 7th attacks. The Israeli military called the report entirely baseless, saying it ignores Hamas' violations of international law as well as the operational difficulties the IDF soldiers are facing. 
 
Meanwhile, Israeli attacks killed dozens of people in Gaza on Wednesday. The Israeli military says it carried out a precise strike on senior Hamas militants in a humanitarian zone in Khan Yunis. A local hospital says 11 of the 20 people killed there were children. Gaza authorities say women and children were among the 10 people killed by strikes in Gaza City. 
 
Israel's Defense Minister is expressing new hope that a hostage agreement can be reached, but he did not get into the specific reasons for his optimism or say whether a deal would include a ceasefire. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISRAEL KATZ, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): I think that thanks to the intense activity, the intensity of the pressure on this monstrous organization called Hamas is increasing, and there is a chance that this time we will really be able to advance a hostage deal. And we are working on this matter and see this goal before our eyes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Meantime, the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says Israel's ceasefire with Hezbollah in neighboring Lebanon is holding. And despite some back-and-forth strikes, both sides seem to want the truce to work.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLINKEN: We get reports of violations. We look at them, we engage the parties, and that's exactly what we've done. The mechanism that we established with France to make sure that the ceasefire is effectively monitored and implemented, is working.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Antony Blinken also said that what's most wanted right now is, quote, "people being able to return to their homes." CNN's Clarissa Ward has our report now from southern Lebanon.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: From the balcony of his apartment, a man gazes out at his city. Tyre, once renowned for its glittering waters and ancient ruins, now in ruins itself. Moussa Saad has lived through many wars in Lebanon, but none like this.
 
Twenty-five years. We have been here in Tyre, he tells us. An Israeli strike pulverized the next-door building where his neighbors once lived. Their clothes still hang ghost-like in the closet. 
 <br>[00:30:00]
 
"America did this to us, not Israel. It's America that goes like this. Like she didn't see anything, and she didn't want to know anything." 
 
Lebanon is a country where loyalties are divided, but bitterness towards the West for its support of Israel is everywhere.
 
In villages around Tyre, Hezbollah flags fly proudly. No community has been spared. 
 
The Melkite Greek Catholic Church had been a refuge for displaced people when it was hit by an Israeli missile on October 9th. Eight people were killed. 
 
Eighty-one-year-old church caretaker Milad Iliya has prayed here as long as he can remember. "This is my house," he says. 
 
Next to the church, a mosque connected by a shared hall for events. 
 
"If our homes were hit, and the church stayed, it would be better," he tells us. "If the church is gone, there is no coexistence between people here." 
 
Tyre is one of the world's oldest inhabited cities, mentioned several times in the Bible. As the light falls, Kamal Istanbouli does what fishermen have been doing here for thousands of years. For 60 days during the war, Israel's military barred boats from going out on the water.
 
"Of course, it was tough," he says. "We fishermen must work every day to feed our families." 
 
WARD: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) What's your dream for the future? 
 
WARD (voice-over): "We don't have a future here," he tells me. "With Israel as your neighbor, occupying your land, there's no future for you. There's just war after war, destruction after destruction. And the country collapses and collapses." 
 
A bleak outlook shared by many in this historic city, even as a shaky ceasefire continues to hold.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: And our thanks to Clarissa Ward there, who is in Southern Lebanon for us.
 
Now, Russia recently raised the stakes in Ukraine with its use of a new nuclear-capable missile, but in an exclusive interview with CNN, one of Russia's top diplomats says Moscow is prepared to go even further.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:35:05]
 
NEWTON: You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Paula Newton. 
 
Russia is cautioning the West not to let its support for Ukraine drag out the war indefinitely. Moscow recently fired a nuclear-capable missile armed with conventional warheads in an attack on Ukraine's energy infrastructure.
 
But in an exclusive interview with CNN, Russia's deputy foreign minister says the Kremlin will resort to, quote, "even stronger military means," if needed. 
 
He spoke with our Fred Pleitgen in Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): As Russia makes some of its most rapid advances since the beginning of the full-on war in Ukraine. 
 
Moscow warning the U.S. and its allies it will hit back hard if the West continues to step up support for Kyiv, Russia's deputy foreign minister tells me in an exclusive interview.
 
SERGEI RYABKOV, RUSSIAN DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER: In NATO, there are a group of people -- I would even call them cheerleaders -- that stand there and clap and shout and just want big boys in the field to go into this game further and further. 
 
They will be defeated, like the U.S. was defeated by Soviet Union in basketball in 1973. Irrespective of how many billions of dollars will be burned in this conflict by the U.S.; irrespective of what people at the European Union believe they should do to support Kyiv, to assist U.S., we will prevail there. No doubt. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): After the Biden administration allowed Ukraine to use longer-distance, U.S.-supplied missiles to strike deep inside Russia, the Russians responded, hitting central Ukraine with an experimental intermediate-range ballistic missile capable of carrying nuclear warheads. 
 
And Moscow continuing to showcase its nuclear power with navy drills featuring sea- and ground-launched missiles designed to carry nukes. 
 
PLEITGEN: Do you think that right now, as far as escalation is concerned, are we in a more precarious place than, for instance, during the Cuban missile crisis? 
 
RYABKOV: We have no comparison. We have no roadmaps. We have no routines. We have no culture of how to manage this type of situation. And absence of common sense in many places, absence of sober analysis in different offices in the West is so alarming. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): The Russians now waiting for the Trump administration to take office, Trump saying he wants to end the war in Ukraine ASAP. 
 
At an event in Moscow, Vladimir Putin once again praising the president-elect. "Mr. Trump is a person who does not need advice or recommendations," he says. 
 
PLEITGEN: Do you think that the Trump administration will follow through on its pledge, or Donald Trump will follow through on his pledge to try and solve the crisis as fast as possible? 
 
RYABKOV: Please make no mistake. Not at the expense of what are the basic elements of our national position. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Moscow.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: A brutal government crackdown against protesters is intensifying right now in Georgia. 
 
One opposition party says a lawmaker was severely beaten by police and detained. Georgia's interior ministry tells CNN the opposition leader was arrested on charges of what they call, quote, "disobedience to police." 
 
Now, massive protests began last week after the ruling Georgian Dream Party decided to suspend talks to join the European Union. 
 
Critics have accused the government of moving towards authoritarian and pro-Russian positions. Tensions have been simmering since October, after the Georgian Dream Party claimed victory following a disputed election. 
 
All right, we are taking a short break. We will be right back with more news in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:41:06]
 
NEWTON: Bitcoin's value has smashed through the $100,000 mark for the first time, as President-elect Trump named key crypto advocates to his new administration. Now, notably, they now include Paul Atkins, whom Trump intends to
 
 nominate as chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC is responsible for regulating cryptocurrencies, among other things.
 
Bitcoin has been surging in value since Trump's election victory in November. 
 
Overall, Bitcoin is up by 130 percent so far this year. 
 
The FBI says the Russian woman who stowed away on a flight from New York to Paris has been arrested after being flown back to the United States. 
 
Fifty-seven-year-old Svetlana Dali is expected to face a federal charge of being a stowaway on a vessel or aircraft without consent and could face up to five years in prison. 
 
The Transportation Security Administration spokesperson told CNN Dali was able to get on the flight to Paris last week by going through a lane reserved for airline flight crews. 
 
Authorities say she will appear in court in the coming hours.
 
And that does it for us right now. I'm Paula Newton. I'll be back at the top of the hour with more CNN NEWSROOM. But first, WORLD SPORT starts right after a quick break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:10]
 
(WORLD SPORT)