Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Hurricane Helene Expected to Make U.S. Landfall Today at Cat 4 Strength; U.S., Allies Call for 21-Day Israel-Hezbollah Ceasefire: Harris' Economic Plans Come into Sharper Focus; Ukraine Aid Questioned; New York City Mayor Eric Adams Indicted. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired September 26, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Make sure you have gas, make sure you have non- perishable food, water, all those things. It's not a matter of whether we're going to get effects, it's just a question of how significant those effects will be. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you're a godly person, pray.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We stand with Ukraine, now and in the future.
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), REPUBLICAN VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: I don't appreciate Zelenskyy coming to this country and telling the American taxpayers what they ought to do, he ought to say thank you.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: We continue to give billions of dollars to a man who refuses to make a deal, Zelenskyy.
 
ERIC ADAMS, (D) NEW YORK MAYOR: If I'm charged, I know I'm innocent. These charges will be entirely false based on lies.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Christina Macfarlane.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us from around the world. I'm Max Foster. It is Thursday, September the 26th, 9 a.m. here in London, 4 a.m. in the big bend of the U.S. state of Florida where residents have been warned to evacuate as a major hurricane is set to make landfall later today.
 
Hurricane Helene is a Category 1 storm now, but it's expected to crash into Florida at Category 4 strength with catastrophic winds, record rainfall and a life-threatening flooding situation. The hurricane is on track to be the strongest storm to hit the U.S. in more than a year. Evacuations have been ordered in at least 15 counties and five states across the southeastern U.S. They're taking the threat very seriously. Tampa International Airport has also suspended all operations for the time being. This will be the third hurricane in just over a year to hit the area of Florida's big bend and residents tell CNN affiliate WCTV this one has them worried.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This one here has got me a little bit more nervous than the others. I mean, for the extent of how wide and vast it is.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We got to be more ready this time than we've ever been before. It may take us a little bit of time to put everything back together, but we're resilient. We'll come right back.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you're a godly person, pray because I don't really need this. Neither do any of us.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: It still may be hours until the actual storm hits Florida, but emergency workers are already lined up and prepared to offer assistance. CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam is in Florida as residents prepare for the storm's arrival.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: If this storm surge measurement is any indication of what's to come with approaching hurricane then here in Apalachicola, we need to prepare for the worst. This shading of blue represents the potential storm surge inundation from a category four land flying hurricane which we are anticipating here. This is for a category three and this shading of red is inundation with a category two hurricane.
 
Now with over 10 feet of storm surge right here where I'm located, that's what's in the forecast. You can see that that is nearly twice as high as how tall I am. This is the storm that people here have feared for their entire lives and the reason this area is so susceptible to storm surge and hurricanes is because of the shallow nature of the Gulf of Mexico over my right shoulder.
 
You can go 50 miles out into the Gulf of Mexico and have only 10-20 feet of water underneath you. Now that shelf actually drops off very quickly so an approaching storm pushes up the water from the eastern Gulf of Mexico and that hits the shelf and it has nowhere to go but up of course inundating this portion, the low-lying area of Florida's Big Bend. 
 
Now we're under a mandatory evacuation here. Now we know that this storm is not only going to bring the catastrophic winds to the coastline of Florida, the Gulf coastline of Florida, but the feeling, the expanse of the storm is going to be significant because it's only growing in size. So not only intensifying in strength but also growing in size. It could be one of the largest storms in terms of its wind field in modern record keeping. That is incredible, even eclipsing Hurricane Katrina. That means the effects of this system will be felt well outside of the center. Now once the storm races inland it's going to bring these hurricane-force gusts into central and southern Georgia as well.
 
There's a lot of trees between here and Atlanta Metro for instance. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
So expect extended duration power outages and then not to mention the potential at least for unprecedented catastrophic flooding as this system dumps over at least 10 inches, maybe upwards of 15 inches in some locations across portions of South Carolina, Georgia and into North Carolina. 
 
Derek Van Dam, Apalachicola.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Let's go live to Atlanta where CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar is following Helene's latest movements and just take us through all of the, you know, dynamics here because schools are closing and people are deeply affected.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, and it's impacting so many areas that are far from the coast. I think that's what really separates this storm from so many others. 
 
Now, we look at the current statistics. Winds of 85 miles to 105. The movement right now is to the north at 12 miles per hour. Pay attention to that because we will circle back.
 
It's now moving into the Gulf of Mexico. This is where we really anticipate this storm is going to strengthen and quickly because it's moving into very warm waters. That is fuel for these types of storms, so it's expected to intensify as it continues to make its way north, eventually into a Category 2, 3. And the forecast calls for this to make it all the way up to a Category 4 hurricane just before landfall in the Big Bend region. 
 
The other thing to note, though, is the forward speed is expected to pick up. We talked about 12 miles per hour. That is expected to jump to 25 miles per hour right at landfall. I know that may not seem all that fast to us, but for a tropical system, especially in the Gulf of Mexico, that is incredibly fast. And the important part of that means once it makes landfall, it can make it very far inland before it really weakens.
 
So you have hurricane warnings and tropical storm warnings for cities that are hundreds of miles away from the coastline. They're expected to have winds that are very strong, 60 to 80 miles per hour, and a lot of the rain will also still be a factor, even well inland. So to recap, we are expecting a Category 4 at landfall.
 
The biggest concern is going to be not just widespread power outages and heavy rain, but un-survivable storm surge numbers. That's what the Hurricane Center is calling this, and it's not surprising when you look at the numbers. Up and down the entire western coast of Florida's peninsula, there is some level of storm surge.
 
For places like Tampa, you're talking 5 to 8 feet. Just north of that, you get 8 to 12. In this Big Bend region right here where you see a lot of this purple color, you're talking 10 to 15 feet. Some of these areas could see inundation up to 20 feet. So again, you are talking tremendous high amounts of storm surge. 
 
Wind is also going to be a factor because it is a Category 4 storm, and the categories are based off of wind speeds. You're really going to see that ramp up as we go through the day today on Thursday. By late Thursday afternoon and into the evening, you really start to see those incredibly strong wind gusts from Tampa all the way up through Apalachicola, and especially as it makes landfall. 
 
But even on the other coast, say the Atlantic side of this, cities like Savannah, Charleston, they're likely going to have very strong wind gusts and some very heavy rain too.
 
So this isn't just going to be the area right near landfall that's impacted. As the storm continues to slide up, cities like Atlanta, Columbia, South Carolina, Asheville, North Carolina, all of those areas, as we mentioned, could see very strong wind gusts, very capable of bringing down trees and power lines. So you're looking at pretty widespread power outages expected.
 
Again, not just for Florida, but for a lot of the surrounding states as they take some of those impacts as well. Rain also going to be a big factor. It's a twofold.
 
You have not only the moisture coming from Helene, but we also had a cold front that was here. So it's the combination of the two that's triggering huge amounts of water for these areas. Widespread locations, you're talking six to 10 inches.
 
But there will be some spots that could easily pick up, Max, at least a foot of rain before this system finally exits the area.
 
FOSTER: OK, Allison, keep us updated. Thank you. 
 
Israel is launching a new round of strikes against Hezbollah in Lebanon as the U.S. and its allies are calling for a 21 day ceasefire.
 
The IDF says at least 75 targets were hit overnight. It also says several projectiles fired from Khan Younis in Gaza were intercepted. Another 81 people were killed by Israeli strikes on Wednesday, according to the Lebanese health ministry. That puts the death toll since Monday at well over 600. 
 
Meanwhile, the top Israeli general is warning of a possible ground incursion into Lebanon. He met with troops along the Israeli Lebanese border on Wednesday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LT. GEN. HERZI HALEVI, CHIEF OF THE GENERAL STAFF, ISRAELI DEFENSE FORCES (through translator): Today, we will continue. We are not stopping. We keep striking and hitting them everywhere.
 
The goal is very clear to safely return the residents of the north. To achieve that, we are preparing the process of a maneuver, which means your military boots, your maneuvering boots will enter enemy territory.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu left Tel Aviv for New York just a few hours ago. He is scheduled to speak to the U.N. General Assembly on Friday. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
An Israeli official says talks over a 21 day ceasefire proposed by the U.S. and its allies are a main motivator for Netanyahu's trip.
 
In the meantime, Israel and Iran are trading blame for the conflicts in Lebanon and Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANNY DANON, ISRAELI AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: Every act of terror on foreign soil traces back to one source, the Islamic regime of Iran. It is the spider at the center of this web of violence. And we have to fight this web of violence.
 
ABBAS ARAGHCHI, IRANIAN MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS: The only way to prevent further escalation is clear. Israel must immediately cease its war on Gaza and its attacks on Lebanon must stop. Let me be clear, Mr. President, without the ceasefire in Gaza, there would be no guarantee for peace in the region.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Let's join Paula Hancocks. She's in Abu Dhabi. First of all, this fear now spreading of a ground invasion into Lebanon and what that actually symbolizes.
 
How likely is it based on what the general was saying?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Max, certainly the public messaging is that it is imminent. Now, of course, a lot of this could also be to show what could happen if Hezbollah were not to pull back or if there were not to be some kind of a ceasefire proposal. And that is what the U.S. is trying to do at this point.
 
They say they have countries in Europe, they have some countries in Asia, also here in the region that are supporting this 21-day ceasefire plan. Now, we've heard from one senior U.S. official, they've called it an important breakthrough. As to whether or not Hezbollah and Israel would sign up for this, when you are hearing these public statements, for example, from the Israeli military chief, is an unknown.
 
We have heard from the U.S. officials that both sides know the contours of this deal. They have been briefed on them and they are also optimistic about the fact that it's being made public. So this won't come as a surprise to them.
 
We've also heard from an Israeli official that Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister, has given his government the green light to go ahead and mediate, to talk to the mediators. But of course, there are simply no guarantees at this point that this could be a possibility. We did hear from the U.N. Secretary General at the U.N. General Assembly in New York, talking about how hell is breaking out in Lebanon.
 
Let's listen to him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL: To all sides, let us say in one clear voice, stop the killing and destruction, turn down the rhetoric and threats, step back from the brink. An all-out war must be avoided at all costs. It will surely be an all-out catastrophe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS: So clearly, there is a lot of diplomatic work happening behind the scenes. But then you do see on the ground that the Israeli Air Force, for example, said 75 Hezbollah strikes were targeted overnight. We know that there have been launches from Hezbollah coming the other way as well.
 
There are tens of thousands in Lebanon that have been displaced, as there is a mass movement from southern Lebanon, the area that is a Hezbollah stronghold. Further north, we also know there's even some thousands trying to cross into Syria at this point. That's Lebanese and Syrians who were in Lebanon.
 
So there is a lot going on, on the ground that would suggest that a ceasefire is not imminent. But we are hearing from the diplomatic side that over the past 48 hours, there has been a massive effort behind the scenes, and of course, with all the world leaders in New York at the same time, in the hope that they could have this 21-day ceasefire -- Max.
 
FOSTER: Paula, thank you.
 
New York City Mayor Eric Adams has been indicted on at least one federal criminal charge. That's according to sources familiar with the matter, who say Adams will have several days to turn himself in. The charges he's facing are not publicly known at this time. This follows months of federal investigation into campaign fundraising violations. The Mayor says he's innocent and he won't step down.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERIC ADAMS, (D) NEW YORK MAYOR: These charges will be entirely false, based on lies. But they would not be surprising. I always knew that if I stood my ground for all of you, that I would be a target. And a target I became.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Well, the indictment intensifies the legal troubles gripping City Hall, where federal probes have been targeting the Mayor's inner circle. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
Now to the race for the White House. Kamala Harris is slamming Donald Trump's economic plan, saying his tariff hikes would lead to a recession and that he has a history of only taking care of very rich people.
 
The Democratic presidential nominee also explained how she intends to drum up funds for her signature programs.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: We're going to have to raise corporate taxes and we're going to have to raise -- we're going to have to make sure that the biggest corporations and billionaires pay their fair share. That's just it. It's about paying their fair share.
 
I am not mad at anyone for achieving success, but everyone should pay their fair share. And it is not right that the teachers and the firefighters that I meet every day across our country are paying a higher tax than the richest people in our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: A close look now at Harris's vision for the U.S. economy then. CNN's Eve McKend reports from the battleground state of Pennsylvania.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: The vice president called for greater investments in manufacturing for new technologies that would impact communities like the ones right here in Pittsburgh. She also called for increased investment in aerospace and artificial intelligence in a nod to how that would impact factory towns across the state of Pennsylvania. 
 
But ultimately, she seemed to want to make a cultural argument here that when it comes to the challenges that everyday Americans have to confront, that former president Donald Trump simply doesn't get it.
 
HARRIS: Donald Trump intends to take America backward, to the failed policies of the past. He has no intention to grow our middle class. He's only interested in making life better for himself and people like himself, the wealthiest of Americans.
 
MCKEND: And the criticism didn't end there. The vice president accused the former president of being one of the biggest losers when it comes to manufacturing. She accused him of selling out America, saying that that is something that she would never do, sell out the nation to America's adversaries or competitors.
 
Mark Cuban, the billionaire businessman, was in the crowd speaking to reporters after the event, and he was asked why the vice president continues to trail the former president in polling on the economy. And he simply said that she needs more time, that all in all, she is a relatively new candidate, and she's still out here making her case, but that most Americans will be able to connect with her argument when they get a better understanding of her economic vision for the country. 
 
Eva McKend, CNN, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Well, Donald Trump calls Volodymyr Zelenskyy probably the greatest salesman on earth and threatens to cut aid to Ukraine if he's re-elected. We'll have the details. 
 
Plus, Hurricane Helene rocked parts of Cuba with heavy rain and strong winds. We'll get a report from Havana after the break. 
 
And a special welcome for two giant pandas, gifts from Beijing to Hong Kong. We'll have the details. Stay with us.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Russia says it has changed its official nuclear policy because of Ukrainian strikes that are backed by the West. President Vladimir Putin warned nuclear weapons could be deployed if Russia is struck by conventional weapons.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The conditions for Russia's transition to the use of nuclear weapons are clearly established. We will consider this possibility upon receipt of reliable information about a massive launch of air and space attack weapons and their crossing of our state border. I mean strategic or tactical aircraft, cruise missiles, drones, hypersonic and other aircraft.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: He also said Moscow would consider any attack on its territory by a non-nuclear state that's supported by a nuclear power to be a joint attack. He said ally Belarus is now under its nuclear umbrella. The change comes as the U.S. and U.K. consider whether to give Ukraine permission to fire conventional Western missiles into Russian territory. 
 
Meanwhile, Ukraine's president visits Washington later today to make an urgent in-person plea for more help. Vladimir Zelenskyy is set to meet separately with U.S. President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris. Mr. Zelenskyy is expected to share his victory plan with the White House. The Biden administration is pledging long-term support for Ukraine despite political uncertainty. 
 
The U.S. announced a new aid package for Kyiv on Wednesday worth $375 million and more could be on the way. 
 
On Wednesday, Mr. Biden and other world leaders signed a joint declaration promising to support Ukraine's recovery and rebuilding efforts. Mr. Zelenskyy also addressed the U.N. General Assembly and called on the world to stand against what he called Russia's colonial war.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: The world needs a peaceful future and sustainable development. And I say this as a president of Ukraine, a country resisting Russia's brutal colonial aggression. Putin has stolen much already, but he will never steal the world's future.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Meanwhile, Donald Trump is lashing out at Mr. Zelenskyy, blaming him and not Russia for the ongoing war. Trump's wild, false and unsolicited remarks about Ukraine include claims that millions of people have died there since the invasion and that the country has been obliterated and is beyond hope. CNN's Alayna Treene picks up the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Former President Donald Trump was back in North Carolina on Wednesday for a speech that his campaigned billed as being on the economy. But it was very clear during his remarks that he also had an eye on the foreign leaders who are currently in the United States for the U.N. General Assembly. 
 
Now, at one point during his remarks, Donald Trump unprompted brought up the war in Ukraine and also began sharply criticizing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's handling of the war.
 <br>[04:25:02]
 
He argued that Zelenskyy should have accepted a deal much earlier on, even if it was a bad deal with Russia, to avoid what Trump argued was Ukraine now being gone as a country. Take a listen to what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Those buildings are down. Those cities are gone. They're gone. And we continue to give billions of dollars to a man who refuses to make a deal -- Zelenskyy. There was no deal that he could have made that wouldn't have been better than the situation you have right now. You have a country that has been obliterated, not possible to be rebuilt.
 
TREENE: Now, Donald Trump also sharply criticized both Joe Biden as well as Kamala Harris's handling of this war. He argued that the two of them have been, quote, feeding Zelenskyy money and munitions like no country has ever seen before. 
 
And the reason this is so important is because this is really the first time we have heard Donald Trump publicly be so critical of Zelenskyy. And it also is one of the clearest indications yet that if he is elected in November, he will significantly pare back support to Ukraine. 
 
Now, the context of this is also notable. It comes as President Joe Biden is expected to meet with Zelenskyy this week. It also comes, as I'm told, that Donald Trump has no plans to meet with Zelenskyy, even though the former president is slated to be in New York City on Thursday. 
 
And one thing to keep in mind as well is, behind the scenes, Donald Trump has been also pretty critical of Zelenskyy this week. It comes after Zelenskyy made -- did an interview over the weekend where he was critical of J.D. Vance and argued that Donald Trump's running mate would want to end the war in Ukraine, even at the expense of Ukraine as a country. 
 
Alayna Treene, CNN, Charlotte, North Carolina.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: All right, Clare Sebastian's here. I want to start with this change in nuclear policy in Russia, which will be alarming a lot of viewers.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I think, look, the calculation for Russia is that there is now a risk. We see that Biden is increasingly open to the idea of giving permission to Ukraine to use these Western-made long-range missiles on Russian soil. So their concern is that the saber-rattling so far has not been enough to convince the West in the power of Russian escalation.
 
So they are taking the rhetoric and now putting it into action. They are sort of clarifying, updating the nuclear doctrine. It's not that specific. They still seem to be sort of treading a fine line. But what they look like is a sort of lowering of the threshold for a first strike. So they have said before the nuclear doctrine did already contain the ability for Russia to use a first nuclear strike if it felt its very existence was threatened by conventional weapons.
 
Now they are clarifying that if they believe that an attack is coming from a non-nuclear state but supported by a nuclear state, then they will consider that a joint attack. Putin also said that if Russia detects a sort of mass aerial assault using drones, missiles, aircraft, then it could consider using a nuclear strike. 
 
But he didn't clarify which missiles, he didn't clarify which countries, although of course the three countries that have supplied long-range missiles to Ukraine, the U.S., the UK and France, are the three nuclear-armed countries in NATO.
 
So it's definitely a response to that, to the sort of the military environment as they call it. But Russia of course has its own calculations when it comes to escalation, not least of course the reaction or possible reaction of its now key ally, China.
 
FOSTER: Yes, and in terms of affecting the U.S., it does play into politics, doesn't it? Because a lot of people will be worried about escalation. President Biden's worried about escalation. Perhaps they won't therefore allow these missiles to be used into Russia. 
 
And meanwhile you've got Donald Trump laying a lot of doubt at Zelenskyy's door.
 
SEBASTIAN: So I mean, Zelenskyy is in the middle of this political roller coaster, essentially. He's having to sort of navigate what may end up being a binary choice in November for the U.S. to help Ukraine or to not help Ukraine. I think it's worth comparing the comments that he had on Wednesday from both President Biden and Donald Trump's running mate, J.D. Vance. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: I'm determined to ensure that Ukraine has what it needs to prevail and fight for survival. Tomorrow, I will announce a series of actions to accelerate support for Ukraine's military. But we know Ukraine's future victory is about more than what happens on the battlefield.
 
VANCE: Look, it is not in America's interest. It's not in Ukraine's interest. It's not in Europe's interest for this war to go on.
 
But look, I don't appreciate Zelenskyy coming to this country and telling the American taxpayers what they ought to do. He ought to say thank you to the American taxpayers.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So because of this, perhaps more than when it was initially planned, there is a lot riding on this meeting with Biden today. There's just over a month to go to the U.S. election. Biden says he wants to sort of fast-track military aid, but of course Congress holds the keys to any more military aid getting through long-term security guarantees.
 
FOSTER: And he's not getting the meetings there, is he?
 
SEBASTIAN: Right, well, he'll be meeting with the House Minority Leader, Hakeem Jeffries, but Mike Johnson, the House Majority Leader, who is, of course, the key player here, is now not scheduled to meet with Zelenskyy.
 
FOSTER: OK, Clare, thank you.
 <br>[04:30:00]