Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: One Week Until Election Day; Iceland Entering a New Period of Volcanic Unrest; Iceland Embraced a Shorter Work Week. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired October 29, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. Welcome to CNN 10.
 
I want to take a moment to show some love to all the teachers out there today. Keep on informing and inspiring, and I sure do hope you get a 
 
 handshake, a high five, or a hug to know that you are appreciated today. Thank you for spending part of your day with me and my team right here on 
 
 CNN 10.
 
Now to your news. The clock is ticking, and the race for the White House is heating up. Today marks one week until the 2024 presidential election, and 
 
 with just days until America makes its big decision, both candidates are crisscrossing the country, focusing on the crucial swing states.
 
There are seven battleground states, Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and Wisconsin, as well as Nebraska`s second 
 
 congressional district that both candidates are focused on. 
 
In order to win the election, one of the candidates must get to 270 electoral college votes. The race is neck and neck. The latest CNN poll 
 
 found the candidates deadlocked among likely voters nationwide. 
 
In the final days of the election, Vice President Kamala Harris is leaning into her messaging on women`s reproductive health rights, while former 
 
 President Donald Trump is focused on immigration. 
 
Now, did you know that more than 40 million Americans have already cast their ballots, either by mail or through early in-person voting?
 
And there`s more on their ballots than just the race for the White House. Americans aren`t just picking a president, they`re also deciding who will 
 
 represent them in Congress as both House and Senate seats are up for grabs. 
 
We`ll hear next from our Senior Political Data Reporter, Harry Enten, with a look at just how close this race is compared with other presidential 
 
 races in history.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER:  The race is close, but if we want to break it down into some numbers here, look, this to me is the simplest 
 
 way to sort of show it mathematically. Kamala Harris likely must carry three of these four states to win. These are the states that are most 
 
 likely going to determine who the next president of the United States is.
 
You look in North Carolina, look at this. Donald Trump with less than a point lead. Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, that great blue wall in the 
 
 great lake states.
 
Harris ahead by less than a point, less than a point, less than a point. When you`re showing the four most important states and the margin in all 
 
 four of them, is one of the candidates up by less than a point? I`m not quite sure there`s any other way to put it than this race is really, really 
 
 close.
 
So let`s just say that the polls were exactly 100% correct. And so the results match the polls and Harris wins Pennsylvania up here in blue. What 
 
 does that mean?
 
Well, it means Kamala Harris gets 276 electoral votes. Of course, you need 270 to win, hence the road to 270. So she just gets over that mark.
 
But it`s so simple, so simple to give the election to Donald Trump. So I mentioned Pennsylvania. What happens if the results match the polls 
 
 exactly, but Trump wins Pennsylvania, we turn Pennsylvania light red or pink, then we get Donald Trump at 281 electoral votes.
 
When just one state, flipping one state could turn a loser into a winner and vice versa. I`m not quite sure that there`s any way else to put it than 
 
 what I said at the very top. This race is close.
 
So you know, we`re talking about all this and oftentimes I say this race is historically close. And, you know, we look at the popular vote polls. So I 
 
 decided to do it a slightly different way, which is, OK, what I`m going to do is at the end of each election cycle, I said, OK, how did the polls look 
 
 and what was the projected count in the Electoral College? 
 
Well, at this particular point, if the polls are exactly right, Kamala Harris would get 276 electoral votes. That is the lowest level for a leader 
 
 at the end of a campaign in terms of the projected electoral map going back since at least 1972. 
 
In 2000, Al Gore was projected to get 281 electoral votes. Of course, the polls missed in Florida. It flipped. George W. Bush won that campaign. 
 
In 2004, look at that. George W. Bush was projected to get 296 electoral votes. The polls were actually pretty gosh darn close. The only state they 
 
 missed was Wisconsin actually. That state flipped into John Kerry`s column. 
 
But the bottom line is this, at this particular point, this is the closest race heading into an election on record, at least over the last 52 years or 
 
 so.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia. 
 
What country had the first parliament in Europe? 
 
England, France, Iceland, or Spain?
 
Raise your hand if you said Iceland. And that is where we`re headed next.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LAURA PADDISON, CNN SENIOR CLIMATE WRITER:  We`re standing here right next to the crater of the volcano, and it is an assault on the senses. I can 
 
 hear the roaring of the magma as it spews up from underneath the ground. Over the side of the crater, as far as my eye can see, is lava cooling with 
 
 heat rising off it, spewing down towards the sea.
 
And the smell in the air is thick with sulfur. It smells like eggs. Experts say the volcanic activity in this area of Iceland is entering a new era of 
 
 unrest, an era that could last hundreds of years.
 
And this future underscores the complicated history that Icelanders have with volcanoes, a relationship that takes but also gives. Standing here, 
 
 you get such a sense of the power of this volcano, and it`s exactly this power that they`re trying to harness in the north of the country. And if 
 
 they can do it, and it`s a big if, they say the potential could be limitless.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right, you know that feeling you get when a three-day holiday weekend rolls around. It`s pretty nice. Well, imagine getting that feeling 
 
 every week. Folks in Iceland aren`t just dreaming about it. They`re living it. The country is hitting the snooze button on one whole day of the 
 
 workweek by making it four days instead of five.
 
They`re setting out to prove that they can get all of their work that`s expected to be done in a week completed in less time. Let`s head to Iceland 
 
 now, where they`re turning that Friyay feeling into Thursday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:  Imagine working a shorter week for the same pay. Well, for more than 50% of the workforce in Iceland, this has been a 
 
 reality in recent years. It came about thanks to two successful trials in the country dating back to 2015.
 
Two and a half thousand workers were allowed to reduce their hours from 40 hours to 35, 36 a week, and the results were good. Researchers found that 
 
 productivity stayed the same or improved in most workplaces, and workers` well-being increased dramatically. 
 
Now, so much of the country`s workforce has followed suit, so it`s been interesting to look at the Icelandic economy to see if it`s had any sort of 
 
 effect.
 
Well, given it`s growing at a faster pace than much of Europe, and the unemployment rate is low, it certainly doesn`t appear to be a drag. But 
 
 before you all decide that you`re going to take your Mondays off from now on, you might want to ask your employer first, and what works in a very 
 
 small country with an outsized service and tourism sector may not work everywhere.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a kangaroo spotted in a place far, far away from the motherland. You might expect to see kangaroos 
 
 bouncing around the outback of Australia, but downtown Durango, Colorado, that`s about as out of place as a penguin at a beach party. Police officers 
 
 responded to a wild 911 call and found themselves in quite the situation, discovering a kangaroo taking a downtown tour.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hi. So, I know this is going to sound completely insane but I live downtown and I was just walking home from work, there is like a 
 
 baby kangaroo with a diaper on, like wandering around Main Street.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Police in Durango, Colorado, responded to that 911 call, body cam capturing the rest. 
 
OFFICER:  We -- come here (laughs).
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The red kangaroo was allegedly someone`s pet. It`s legal to own a red kangaroo in Colorado, according to Colorado Parks and 
 
 Wildlife.
 
OFFICER:  It`s your mommy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  An officer that responded to the call said, quote, "This was one of the best calls of my career so far. The kangaroo was 
 
 eventually recovered by its owner. The animal was not harmed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Thanks to all of you who`ve been reaching out to say hey @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok. Remember tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. 
 
 Your word can make it into the show and boost our vocabulary. So submit those vocab words and the definition in the comment section of my most 
 
 recent post @coywire on social. Put your school name, city, state and teacher`s name so we can show some love. Can`t wait. 
 
And we`ll see you right back here tomorrow on CNN -- What`s that? You said what? Oh yeah, shout out time. Let`s go to Kanab Middle School in Kanab, 
 
 Utah. Rise up. Thank you for sending all your shout out requests to our CNN10 YouTube channel. 
 
Go on out and make it a great day, everyone. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.
 
END