Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida Meets with U.S. President Joe Biden during Official Visit; Former Mississippi Officers Sentenced for Torture and Sexual Assault of Two Black Men. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired April 10, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  Live from CNN Abu Dhabi, this is CONNECT THE WORLD with Becky Anderson. 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST (voice-over):  Welcome back to the second hour of the show. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. 
 
We are following two major stories happening this hour. 
 
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida will be welcomed on the White House South Lawn at any moment for what is an official visit. 
 
And in Mississippi, six former police officers are due in a state court to be sentenced for charges involving the torture of two Black men. 
 
Well, any moment now at the White House, the president and first lady are hosting an official arrival ceremony for Japan's prime minister and his 
 
 wife. Now this comes ahead of the two leaders' bilateral meeting and joint press conference being held in the coming hours. 
 
We're told Mr. Biden and Fumio Kishida will discuss strengthening military ties between the two nations and China's influence spreads across the Indo-
 
 Pacific region. 
 
Joining me now is CNN correspondent Hanako Montgomery -- she is in Tokyo -- and Joshua Walker, the president and CEO of Japan Society, joining us from 
 
 New York. 
 
Let's start with you. Hanako, just to set the scene as it were. 
 
Why is this meeting so significant?
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Becky, this meeting is hugely significant both for the United States and Japan because the two countries 
 
 right now are trying to express how their cooperation is deepening and strengthening. 
 
Especially right now as they share a common concern, which is China's increasing aggression in the Indo-Pacific region. During our interview with 
 
 the Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida on Sunday, he expressed why Japan needed to accelerate its military buildup. 
 
The fastest acceleration and the biggest build-up we've seen since actually the end of World War II. He talked to us a little bit about some of the 
 
 challenges that he thinks Japan is currently facing in the security sector. Give this a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FUMIO KISHIDA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  In our neighborhood, there are countries that are developing ballistic missiles 
 
 and nuclear weapons and others that are building up their defense capabilities in an opaque way. 
 
Also, there is a unilateral attempt to change the status quo by force in both the East China Sea and South China Sea. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MONTGOMERY:  So because Japan is facing these so-called geopolitical tensions, Kishida  really wants to strengthen his ties to the United States 
 
 and increase its defense capabilities. 
 
According to one senior U.S. government official I spoke with, we can expect Kishida and Biden to announce a joint operations command in Japan, 
 
 which is a move that the United States has long pursued. 
 
Right now, U.S. personnel, joint operations of U.S. Personnel in Japan are directed by INDOPACOM, which is, of course, headquartered in Hawaii. So 
 
 experts tell me that this move would greatly streamline and help organize military operations in real time. 
 
ANDERSON:  Let me bring Joshua in at this point. 
 
This is Kishida's first official visit. You had an opportunity to sit down with the Japanese ambassador to the U.S. recently. 
 
What do you make of the timing of this visit and the positioning? 
 
JOSHUA WALKER, PRESIDENT AND CEO, JAPAN SOCIETY:  Yes, as you said, the timing of this is auspicious in many ways. Obviously, it's spring and 
 
 cherry blossom season around the world, not just in D.C. 
 
But it's also the political season and it's not just in Washington, where there's a big election this year with the presidential, but also in Japan. 
 
 There's a lot of conversations about it. So I think both leaders need the optics of this visit to be significant in a world that is increasingly at 
 
 play with the wars in Gaza and Ukraine. 
 
And so I think all these deliverables, all these ideas that have been put out there, the importance of U.S.-Japan relationship that is entering its 
 
 80th year at the end of World War II, has never been more important.
 
But I think in many ways, most Americans are not paying as close attention because they can take both Japan and our democracy for granted. 
 
So can these leaders in the visit that they have, both at the White House that we're watching right now but also at the U.S. Congress tomorrow and 
 
 also at North Carolina, where the prime minister will visit a Toyota factory at EV, that has a very clear mission about the importance of U.S. 
 
 and Japan globally. 
 <br>[10:00:07]
 
This is important for everyone at this point. 
 
ANDERSON:  We've been hearing talk of what is the so-called cherry or cherry blossom diplomacy. Just explain what lies behind that, if you will. 
 
WALKER:  Yes. I think for anybody who's lived in Washington, you know that one of the key features of the year is the National Cherry Blossom 
 
 Festival. It's the biggest festival we have in Washington, D.C. 
 
But those cherry blossoms were originally gifted by the government of Japan from Tokyo over 100 years ago. William Taft's wife and the governor of 
 
 Tokyo at the time, their wife, came together. 
 
And those cherry blossoms have been a gift that keeps on giving. You see cherry blossoms ubiquitously, not just in the D.C. region but of course 
 
 here in New York and Central Park. 
 
And you see them all over Japan, where people stop what they're doing, come underneath and celebrate for a couple of days as those cherry blossoms come 
 
 together. So it really is important symbolically. 
 
And the fact that Kishida-san has brought those cherry blossoms back to Washington and really reaffirmed that relationship is symbolically very 
 
 important 
 
ANDERSON:  I just want to pause for a moment. 
 
These are live pictures from the South Lawn at the White House. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  And, Joshua, as we listen to the national anthem, there must be a sense from the Japanese administration and from the prime minister 
 
 himself that a second Trump administration, a second administration with a former president, Donald Trump, is a serious possibility at this point. 
 
How then will the Japanese be positioning themselves for that? 
 
WALKER:  I think it's a great question. One of the big topics, not just in Japan but around the world, is what do we do in a second Trump 
 
 administration. I think the Biden administration's made it clear that they're going to be administration of continuity. 
 
Trump in many ways is coming back in a second term in a very different way. You'll remember that Donald Trump had one of the best relationships with 
 
 any world leader, Shinzo Abe, who's no longer here. And in fact, the last official visit, a state visit of the type that took place with Japan, was 
 
 nine years ago under Shinzo Abe. 
 
And Biden's predecessor in terms of Obama. So I think Japan has always done very well in navigating the personal relationships, because U.S.-Japan is 
 
 so strong. But they are certainly here at what the price will be. 
 
Will Trump ask for higher prices? 
 
That's why you're going to see a lot of things coming out today about military defense and technology, space, areas that are bipartisan 
 
 consensus, because Japan will transcend the partisan politics of the presidential election with certainly a lot of concern. 
 
ANDERSON:  Hanako, let me bring you back in. This is an important discussion. This administration in Japan will be attempting to get a better 
 
 grasp of Donald Trump's foreign policy ideas going forward, in the event that he wins in November. 
 
What are you hearing there? 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Yes, Becky, during our interview with the Japanese prime minister, I asked him what he thinks of a potential Trump presidency, given 
 
 that, of course, he is running in the race.
 
Kishida declined to come comment. He said that he couldn't comment about another country's domestic policies. But he said that he hopes a U.S.-Japan 
 
 alliance remains strong no matter which party was in power. 
 
And I think this really speaks to the larger theme here, of Japan just really emphasizing that it has one of the strongest ties with the United 
 
 States. It really emphasizes also this sort of lattice-like structure that a lot of analysts are talking about, where Japan and the United States work 
 
 together. 
 
But also it has allies, such as the Philippines, Australia, the U.K. And really it's just kind of strengthening these alliances in the Indo-Pacific 
 
 region, where, again, it sees introns from, for instance, neighbors such as China and North Korea. 
 
ANDERSON:  Fascinating images. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
The first official visit of the Japanese prime minister, the relatively new Japanese prime minister, to the United States, to Washington, and as a 
 
 guest of the president, Joe Biden. 
 
And if you think about where we started with this Biden administration and the importance of placing the strategy on China, front and center for 
 
 Antony Blinken, and this entire administration. 
 
And you just think about how far that has come. And this was a pivot that we saw during the Obama administration as well, a pivot toward what is 
 
 going on in Asia, the development of that relationship with Japan as Japan experiences a burgeoning of its economic story. 
 
And a better economic story there now than they have had since 1989. Joe Biden will remember those days. I lived in the States in those days when 
 
 Japan had an extremely strong economy. It's been a really difficult period for the Japanese over the last 30 years or so. 
 
But this now a strategically important position for the Biden administration as it continues to work through bolstering its defenses 
 
 against China, if indeed, it believes that is what they need to do. 
 
And really significant and consequential that we see the prime minister of Japan on what is his first official visit today. Priscilla Alvarez joins us 
 
 now.
 
And as we watch these live images, Priscilla, what message is President Biden trying to send to your mind, with your sourcing, with this welcoming 
 
 ceremony? 
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, I think you're exactly right, Becky, in describing this as a really critical and 
 
 consequential moment. Of course, Japan has been at the center of the alliance in the Indo-Pacific. That's the way that the president and the 
 
 White House has viewed them. 
 
And this, of course, is very, very important, particularly as, amid the resurgence of China and trying to reinforce commitments, I mean, for 
 
 example, you have Japan and the U.S. working on their defense posture and trying to tweak that, as well as listing over 70 deliverables. 
 
They really want to cover a lot of ground which just goes to show how important they are to this alliance. That goes for example, from, as I 
 
 mentioned, changing the U.S. force structure in Japan in order to improve how Japanese and U.S. forces are integrated. 
 
And greater defense industrial cooperation, space collaboration -- that is expected to be among one of the topics that they discuss -- as well as 
 
 artificial intelligence research initiatives. 
 
Now of course, even if they have a lot of common ground, there are always points of tension. And one of them has been the sale of U.S. steel to 
 
 Japan. Now an official said that's not expected to be brought up very much. 
 
But it is just another example of where they may have some conflict or more to discuss on the economic front, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Good stuff, Priscilla. Let's just listen in. Washington likes to do pomp and ceremony. They do it well. Let's just listen in, watch these 
 
 images. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Washington pulling out all the stops. You see the U.S. President Joe Biden, standing next to the Japanese prime minister there on what is 
 
 his first official visit to Washington. We are expecting the two leaders to speak at some point. We will keep you across what they say when they say 
 
 it. 
 
It is just before 10:15 am on the East Coast. And the U.S. President, Joe Biden, and the Japanese prime minister, let's have a listen in to what the 
 
 U.S. president has to say. 
 
JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Welcome. Welcome, welcome, welcome.  On behalf of Jill and me, the vice president and the second 
 
 gentleman and all the American people, welcome to the White House. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
BIDEN:  Sixty-four years ago, our two nations signed a treaty of mutual cooperation and security. President Eisenhower said his goal was to 
 
 establish an indestructible partnership between our countries. 
 
Today the world can see that goal has been achieved and that partnership between us is unbreakable. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  The alliance between Japan and the United States is the cornerstone of peace, security and prosperity in the -- in the IndoPacific and around 
 
 the world. Ours is truly a global partnership. 
 
For that, Mr. Prime Minister Kishida, I thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  The prime minister is a visionary and courageous leader. When Russia began its brutal invasion of Ukraine two years ago, he did not 
 
 hesitate to condemn, sanction and isolate Russia and provide billions in assistance to Ukraine. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  Under his leadership, Japan set in motion profound changes in its defense policies and its capabilities. Now, now our two countries are 
 
 building a stronger defense partnership and a stronger Indo -- stronger IndoPacific than ever before. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  As president of the G7 last year, the prime minister rallied Japan's partners to take action on nuclear disarmament, global poverty, 
 
 economic resilience and other critical issues that shape peace, security and opportunity for billions of people around the world. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  And last year, the prime minister took one of the boldest steps yet, when he and President Yun of the Republic of Korea decided to heal all 
 
 wounds and start a new chapter of friendship. 
 
Our historic Summit that I hosted at Camp David marked the start of an entirely new era, infused with hope, shared values and focused relentlessly 
 
 forward, because these leaders know that the division that defined in the past do not need to define us in the future. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  That has also been the story of Japan and the United States. Just a few generations ago, our two nations were blocked in a devastating 
 
 conflict. It would have been easy to say we remain adversaries. Instead, we made a far better choice. We became the closest of friends.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
BIDEN:  Today our economic relationship is one of the strongest and deepest in the world. Our democracies are beacons of freedom, shining across the 
 
 globe. And the ties of friendship, family connect the Japanese and American people as a source of joy, meaning and meaning for millions, millions of 
 
 our people. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  Japanese Americans have made historic contributions across American life for generations. That includes my mentor and one of my closest friends 
 
 ever in the United States Senate, Senator Daniel Inouye, a decorated war hero, a U.S. senator for nearly 50 years and a recipient of the Medal of 
 
 Honor. 
 
Yesterday, Prime Minister laid a wreath at the National Japanese American Memorial in honor of Dan Inouye's 100th birthday, something I truly 
 
 appreciate you having done. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
ANDERSON:  All right. You're listening to the U.S. president. We're going to take a very short break. Back with this and to listen to the prime 
 
 minister of Japan Fumio Kishida after this.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Welcome back. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson. Let's continue to listen in as U.S. President Joe Biden and the 
 
 Japanese prime minister, Fumio Kishida, speak at the White House. 
 
BIDEN:  They'll be planted at the Tidal Basin not far from the Martin Luther King Memorial. And like our friendship, these trees are timeless, 
 
 inspiring and thriving. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
BIDEN:  May God bless the Japanese and American people. may God protect our troops. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Kishida, welcome back to the White House. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
BIDEN:  The floor is yours. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (speaking Japanese).
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Distinguished guests, the prime minister of Japan. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
KISHIDA:  (speaking Japanese).
 
(through translator):  Mr. President, Dr. Biden, distinguished guests, I thank President Biden for the warm words of welcome. I'm very pleased to 
 
 see that the cherry trees that my wife, Yuko, planted with Dr. Biden last year is growing beautifully. 
 
(speaking Japanese).
 
(through translator):  The cherry trees along the Potomac River are a symbol of the friendship between Japan and the United States. These 
 
 Japanese-born cherry trees have been sounding the arrival of spring to the city every year for over 110 years.
 
Just as the local residents have cherished and protected these cherry trees, the Japan-U.S. relationship has been supported and nurtured by many 
 
 people who love each other's country. 
 
(speaking Japanese).
 
(through translator):  The development of the Japan-U.S. relationship is the fruit of the historical cooperation between the two countries. Along 
 
 with the trust between the leaders and cooperation between our governments, numerous people-to-people exchanges in ranging fields have shaped the 
 
 friendship between our countries.
 
(speaking Japanese).
 
(through translator):  The cooperation between our countries, bound together by common values and commitments, has become a global one, with 
 
 the scope and depth covering outer space and the deep sea. 
 
(speaking Japanese).
 
(through translator):  Today the world faces more challenges and difficulties than ever before. As a global partner, Japan will join hands 
 
 with our American friends. And together we will lead the way in tackling the challenges of the IndoPacific region and the world while tirelessly 
 
 developing the relationship between our countries. 
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
With a view to the world, 10 and even 100 years from now. 
 
(speaking Japanese).
 
(through translator):  In Japan, it is said that the Somei yoshino, which are the cherry trees planted in this area, have a lifespan of about 60 
 
 years. However, thanks to the efforts of the cherry tree guardians, the trees have shown their strong vitality, blooming beautifully for more than 
 
 100 years without waning.
 
(speaking Japanese).
 
ANDERSON:  Well, that is the Japanese prime minister, and underscoring why it is that this diplomacy, this relationship between the U.S. and Japan, is 
 
 ofttimes called the cherry tree or cherry blossom or cherry diplomacy. Let's bring in our team standing.
 
Priscilla Alvarez is in Washington. Hanako Montgomery is in Tokyo. And Joshua Walker, who is the president and CEO of Japan Society, joins us from 
 
 New York. 
 
Priscilla, what do you make of what you've heard?
 
ALVAREZ:  Well, this is certainly a reaffirming of their friendship and their cooperation on multiple fronts. You heard President Biden there talk 
 
 about the economic cooperation, the political cooperation and also thanking them for their work on defense policy. 
 
And that's important. Before the show, we didn't talk about this, but the experts I've talked to said that the war in Ukraine is expected to be at 
 
 the forefront here. Of course, as Japan is just a very critical partner in the Indo-Pacific region, the conflicts abroad have been front and center. 
 
And especially the U.S. trying to reaffirm its leadership on the world stage, especially in a very tricky political moment here in the United 
 
 States, where the U.S. is struggling to get that additional aid through Congress for Ukraine. 
 
And so this was something that, when I spoke to experts and officials ahead of this meeting, was really going to be a topic of discussion and one the 
 
 president actually ticked through when he had his remarks there. And, of course, we know that they're going to talk about more than just that. 
 
And officials have previewed some of the deliverables that we anticipate when they head into that bilateral meeting after this ceremony, including, 
 
 for example, again, that U.S. force structure in Japan as well as joint artificial intelligence initiatives and space collaboration.
 
And, of course, another symbolic takeaway of all of this is those cherry blossom saplings here in Washington. There is work that is going to be done 
 
 in the Tidal Basin that's going to lead to some of those cherry blossom trees having to be chopped down. 
 
And here, in a really symbolic gesture, Japan is going to offer more saplings. So just another example of the friendship here as they go into 
 
 that bilateral meeting after this ceremony and, later, a joint press conference. 
 
ANDERSON:  Hanako, remind us what you understand to be the key priorities for prime minister Kishida while he is in Washington. 
 
(AUDIO GAP) 
 
ANDERSON:  OK. Well, we will try and get Hanako. 
 
Meantime, Joshua, I know that you can hear me or I assume that you can. These speeches are over. This is Kishida's first official visit, of course. 
 
When we talked about what you make of the timing of that a little earlier this hour, what are your key takeaways from what you have just heard? 
 
WALKER:  What I heard is very much a symbolic and importance of showcasing the breadth of the U.S.-Japan alliance. I listened carefully to both 
 
 leaders. They focused on the importance of the global relationship, not just the bilateral. 
 
And as we've already heard, the importance of events in Ukraine, events and around the world are critical. The prime minister made reference not just 
 
 to the cherry blossoms and the symbolic importance there in Washington but being able to have an alliance that goes from space to the ground, he said. 
 
And so I think that's really important. Both leaders need each other in this critical moment. Domestically, they needed, as you already referenced, 
 
 the other four visits that the president has hosted in the White House, are around the Indo-Pacific with Korea, that's heading to elections today. 
 
With India, with Australia and then the other one in France. So I think this one is very important for the president and the prime minister. 
 
 There's so much to discuss. They're going to spend the whole afternoon discussing these issues. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
ANDERSON:  Yes, fascinating. 
 
Well, we will leave Washington with these images, the two families there, waving to the assembled press and those gathered on the South Lawn. The 
 
 meeting, of course, will continue. 
 
You're watching CNN. I'm Becky Anderson with CONNECT THE WORLD, live from our Middle East broadcasting hub here in Abu Dhabi. 
 
To our guests, Priscilla and Joshua, thank you. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson. 
 
Well, a sentencing hearing just wrapped up for six former Mississippi police officers. The white former officers pleaded guilty to torturing and 
 
 abusing two Black men last year. One of the men was shot in the mouth. 
 
The attorney for victim Michael Jenkins read his impact statement ahead of sentencing a short time ago. Have a listen. 
 
(AUDIO GAP)
 
ANDERSON:  OK. I didn't have that sound for you. Let me move on. 
 
This group of officers called themselves the, quote, "Goon Squad." All six were already sentenced to federal prison terms. State and federal sentences 
 
 will run concurrently. Well, prominent defense and trial attorney Misty Marris joins me now to discuss this.
 
And we've heard all six sentences now come down. You've been following it. Bring it up to speed. 
 
MISTY MARRIS, DEFENSE AND TRIAL ATTORNEY:  So these are the state sentences. This follows a federal sentencing hearing. So just to explain 
 
 for the viewers, all of the officers in this case were charged with both federal crimes. 
 
And those federal clients relate to the deprivation of civil rights of the two victims in this case. And that relates to them acting, under the color 
 
 of law as police officers, in engaging in these absolutely horrific acts against the two victims. 
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
Now the federal sentence happened a few weeks ago. These are the state sentences. So this is a different set of crimes relating to their conduct 
 
 that falls under the state purview. 
 
Now it relates to conspiracy to -- obstruction of justice, conspiracy, hindering prosecution. And then each of the individual officers who was 
 
 involved in other crimes, such as aggravated assault and burglary, have sentences that are relative to their part in this conspiracy. 
 
So keep in mind, Becky, this horrible, horrible act, this was acts of torture with no -- with no -- with no regard for the law with the Goon 
 
 Squad. And then they actually acted to cover up what they did. So that's what these sentences relate to. 
 
The big issue here was whether or not the sentences would run consecutively or concurrently. The judge determined concurrently. So there'll be at the 
 
 same time as the federal sentences. 
 
ANDERSON:  It's so good to have you, Misty. Thank you very much indeed. 
 
And that is it for CONNECT THE WORLD today. Stay with CNN. "MARKETPLACE MIDDLE EAST" is up next. 
 
(MARKETPLACE MIDDLE EAST)
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END