Headline: Inside Politics
Sub-headline: Milton Now Projected to Make Landfall Near Sarasota; Biden, Harris Get Briefing on Cat-4 Hurricane Milton; Milton to Slam Florida With Life-threatening Floods and Wind. Aired 12:30-1p ET

Aired October 09, 2024 - 12:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:32:10]
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR OF 'INSIDE POLITICS':  We are following the breaking news, Hurricane Milton is now just hours away from making landfall just south of Sarasota, that is according to current projections, it could change at any moment. But the massive Category-4 storm is already packing winds of 145 miles per hour. As officials warn, it could be one of the most destructive storms on record.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR JANE CASTOR, TAMPA, FLORIDA:  That storm surge is still the biggest issue that we are looking at. And if you went through Hurricane Helene, that was four to six feet, and that was more devastation than I've seen in my life. So, Milton is bringing the possibility of bringing twice as much storm surge here, from 12 to 15 feet. That is something that is historical not only for our community, but really for our nation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASH:  I will now turn to Congresswoman Kathy Castor of -- in Tampa. Kathy Castor, no relation to Jane Castor, the Mayor of Tampa, we were just listening to.
 
Congresswoman, thank you so much for being here. You represent Hillsborough County, including the city of Tampa. What is the situation on the ground right now, and what is your biggest concern as we speak?
 
REP. KATHY CASTOR, (D-FL):  Hey, thank you, Dana, so much. It's still, who has not left. The only saving grace from this monster is that we had a couple of days to warn everyone about the triple threat that Milton poses because, I mean, this is inconceivable. Just two weeks ago, people were flooded out of their homes, thousands of my neighbors, due to this historic storm surge from Helene that was a hundred miles off the coast. They were just kind of recovering, just trying to wrap their minds around this. And now, Milton, which is a rain event, a wind event, and a surge event.
 
So the best advice right now is to make sure you are out of the storm surge area. You're going to lose power. So, making -- writing down the numbers where you can call people for emergency information. You are going to hear sirens, you're going to hear other alerts, or watch for other alerts on tornadoes, storm surge, high winds. You have to expect the unexpected. But I want to thank all of my neighbors who've got out of the evacuation and surge zone, and all of our local partners who have done an extraordinary job, along with FEMA, making sure we're prepared.
 
BASH:  And you are one of those, of course, who is now -- you're joining us from outside of the evacuation zone.
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
You are in a safe space, we all hope. What is the biggest challenge for those who have not yet left? I mean, we've seen and heard about gas shortages. Of course, there's traffic. Are there other challenges that people who have not yet left should know about? And how can they overcome those challenges?
 
K. CASTOR:  They're going to lose power. So they're not going to be able to get on and watch TV, get on the internet. You're not going to be able to go shopping because the stores will be closed. Gas stations were largely out as I left the Tampa, the evacuation area this morning. So it's best just to stay put. If you know anyone that stayed, I actually heard from someone yesterday who said, well, I survived the surge for Helene, so I'm going to go up to the second or third storey and ride this out. And that's a recipe for loss of life.
 
People need to safeguard their lives and anyone you know, they need to get out now. But they need to prepare for a number of days without power. This is not a storm where people should rush back in to see their property. You've really got to listen to local authorities and let them save lives and get -- survey the infrastructure. But like I said, follow the emergency alerts. Now, this is a storm unlike anything we've ever seen. It intensified so rapidly. It's just a monster.
 
BASH:  I mean, you called it a triple threat because of the water, the wind, and the surge. I mean, just sticking with one of those, the surge, up to 12 feet of storm surge could inundate the Tampa Bay, or at least parts of the Tampa Bay area. Just to give people perspective, that's double the record of five to six feet that we just saw by Helene. And if you think about it, it's even higher than an NBA basketball hoop, which is 10 feet.
 
K. CASTOR:  And Dana, after Helene, I talked to my neighbors who stood on the top of their beds as the surge came in and they stood on the top of the bed for hours. Then there were neighbors who were carrying their children and carrying their pets through the surging waters to get to higher ground, to get to a second storey. And don't chance it right now. You've got to -- you really have to take personal responsibility to safeguard your life.
 
BASH:  Yeah. And as you and others have said, if you look at the time right now, it's 12:37 p.m. Eastern. The governor and others have said three o'clock is about the time when the window will close. So the time is now, if you can still see and hear us and your congresswoman, evacuate. Thank you so much for being here. Please stay safe.
 
K. CASTOR:  Thanks, Dana.
 
BASH:  And up next, while Hurricane Milton has not yet made landfall, it is already not just affecting most importantly the people of Florida, but where we are on the calendar, the presidential race. We're going to talk about that ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:43:00]
 
BASH:  Welcome back. We want to go right to the White House. President Biden is speaking as he is getting briefings from his emergency teams.
 
JOE BIDEN, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:  Looking like the storm of the century. I'm here with leaders of my administration. We're on the frontlines preparing for this storm and will brief me in our latest efforts. To save lives and livelihoods, I want to emphasize a few things. First, many communities in Hurricane Milton's path do not have a moment to catch their breath between Helene and Milton. two historic storms in two weeks.
 
I want to thank everyone who has followed local guidance to evacuate ahead of the landfall. I know it's really tough leaving behind your home, your belongings, everything you own. But I urge everyone in Hurricane Milton's path to follow all safety instructions as we head to the next 24 hours. It's a matter of -- literally a matter of life and death.
 
Second, for the last week, my team has done everything possible to prepare for this storm. I immediately approved emergency declarations in Florida and the Seminole Tribe of Florida. I also served search and rescue teams, water, food, power generators, ambulances to the region. In my direction, Administrator Criswell will be in the State Emergency Operations Center in Florida tonight. And Kamala and I are going to keep pressure on the company, so prices stay stable on gasoline, flights and goods people need.
 
Finally, we're teaming up with state and local officials to support impacted communities. I spoke with the Florida Governor DeSantis, with Mayor of Tampa, Castor -- the Tampa Mayor, the Clearwater Mayor Rector, and the Pinellas County Chairwoman Peters. I offered them everything we need, everything we have, everything they need, and I made it clear to them they should reach out if there's anything more they need. I gave them my personal phone number here at the White House to contact me directly if that's necessary.
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
Let me close with this. I want to thank the governors of all the affected areas over the last couple of weeks -- Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, Virginia. You know, we've been in constant contact, and they've been very thankful and appreciative of the help the federal government is providing. And I'm appreciative of all they're doing as well. And I've told them to contact me with anything else they need.
 
We have made available an unprecedented number of assets to deal with this crisis. We're going to continue to do so until the job is done. But now, I want to be clear about something. For the last few weeks, there's been a reckless, irresponsible, and relentless promotion of disinformation and outright lies that are disturbing people. It's undermining confidence in the incredible rescue and recovery work that has not already been taken and will continue to be taken. And it's harmful to those who need help the most.
 
There is simply no place for this to happen. Former President Trump has led the onslaught of lies. Assertions have been made that property is being confiscated. It's simply not true. They're saying people impacted by these storms will receive $750 in cash and no more. That's simply not true. They're saying the money that's needed for this crisis is being diverted to migrants. What a ridiculous thing to say? It's not true. Now, the claims are getting even more bizarre.
 
Congressman Marjorie Taylor Greene, a congresswoman of Georgia, is now saying the federal government is literally controlling the weather. We're controlling the weather -- it's beyond ridiculous. It's got to stop. In moments like this, there are no red or blue states. There's one United States of America where neighbors are helping neighbors, volunteers and first responders are risking everything, including their own lives to help their fellow Americans. State, local and federal officials are standing side by side.
 
Let me repeat. No one should make the American people question whether their governments will be making sure that this is (inaudible), they'll be there. We will, all of us. I'm going to turn it over to Vice President Harris, if that's OK with all of you. Thank you. Madam Vice President?
 
KAMALA HARRIS, (D) VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  Thank you Mr. President, and Liz, thank you for the work that you have been doing. As the president said, we've been working around the clock to prepare for Hurricane Milton and to ensure that people are safe, including ensuring federal, state, and local resources are being coordinated in a smart and efficient and effective way.
 
We have also been in constant contact with the leaders in Florida to make sure that we are cutting any red tape that might get in the way of getting relief to folks, to make sure also that communities receive the resources and the support that they need as quickly as possible. Already, we have sent more than 1,000 federal personnel to be on the ground in Florida to assist with what needs to happen in the state to prepare for this hurricane, and we will continue to scale up those efforts.
 
To the people of Florida and in particular, the people of the Tampa region, we urge you to take this storm seriously. As has been said before, this is a storm that is expected to be of historic proportion. And many of you I know are tough and you've ridden out these hurricanes before, this one's going to be different. And so we ask you that by every measure, understand it's going to be more dangerous, more deadly, and more catastrophic. So please listen to your local officials. They know what they're talking about. They know what they're doing. And if you are told to evacuate, please evacuate immediately. Do not wait until it is too late.
 
And in the hours and days ahead, President Biden and I and our Administration will continue to do everything we can to protect the people who have been in the path of this storm. And once the storm has passed, we will be there to help folks recover and rebuild as we continue to do for those communities in Florida, Georgia, North and South Carolina, and across the southeast, who have been devastated by Hurricane Helene.
 
Finally, as the president mentioned, to any company that -- or individual that might use this crisis to exploit people who are desperate for help through illegal, fraud or price gouging, whether it be at the gas pump, the airport, or the hotel counter, know that we are monitoring these behaviors and the situation on the ground very closely, and anyone taking advantage of consumers will be held accountable.
 
The bottom line is this hurricane poses an extreme danger and we urge everyone in Florida to take extreme caution. And we are with you and we will get through this together. And with that, I will hand it over to Homeland Security Advisor, Liz Sherwood-Randall.
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
ELIZABETH SHERWOOD-RANDALL, UNITED STATES HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISOR: Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. President, Madam Vice President, you will now receive a briefing on the latest forecast for Hurricane Milton and actions that we have taken to prepare for it and be ready to respond to it. You'll hear from Administrator of FEMA, Deanne Criswell; the Director of the National Hurricane Center, Mike Brennan; the Director of the National Weather Service, Ken Graham; Secretary of Homeland Security, Ali Mayorkas; and the Commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Linda Fagan.
 
We'll begin the briefing with Administrator Criswell. Over to you, Deanne.
 
DEANNE CRISWELL, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE U.S. FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY:  Thank you, Liz. Mr. President, Madam Vice President, I just want to assure you, we are taking this storm very seriously. As you will hear from Dr. Brennan shortly, Milton is currently a Category-4 storm and will remain a hurricane as it crosses over Florida. At your direction, Mr. President, I will be traveling down to Tallahassee tonight to embed at the Stadium Seat (ph) to meet with my team as well as our state partners. And I will be there to assess the damages and the impacts immediately following the storm, working in close coordination with the state to ensure that they have everything that they need to support their priorities.
 
As you have always directed me to do, I am leaning forward to make sure that we are strategically placing our resources and our teams to be able to rapidly respond in Florida. There are currently, over a thousand federal personnel on the ground in Florida, supporting the efforts from Hurricane Helene as well as the previous storms that have happened over the last few years.
 
And I have directed, at your direction, an additional 1,000 search and rescue personnel from FEMA, the Coast Guard and the Department of Defense, to stage in Florida, so they are ready to take action as soon as Milton makes landfall. This also includes 30 high-water vehicles, helicopters, as well as boats to be able to go in and support the counties in the states as needed. I've also moved over 500 ambulances to help assist with the response. Six incident management assistance teams into one, specifically into Tampa and others throughout the region, multiple power assessment teams and dozens of medical facility assessment teams, so they can go in and check on the health and medical facilities as soon as the storm passes.
 
And Mr. President and Madam Vice President, I have also moved millions of meals and liters of water into Florida to be able to support any of those immediate needs. I really appreciate Mr. President and Madam Vice President, your continuous effort to help lift up the warnings and the guidance that you just gave about what people need to do in the path of Hurricane Milton. This is an extremely dangerous storm, and we need all of the residents that are in the path of the storm to listen to their local officials. They will tell you if there's still time to evacuate or what you need to do if you are still where you're at, they will give you the right information about what you need to do to protect yourself where you are at right now.
 
Sometimes just traveling a few miles inland can mean the difference between life and death, and nobody has to lose their life as a result of this storm. So in short, Mr. President and Madam Vice President, I assure you we are taking this storm extremely seriously. We are focused and we are ready to support the people of Florida.
 
BIDEN:  Deanne, you're doing a hell of a job. You always have. We've been through a lot of this together, all three of us, including the vice president. And I have one question right now though. What are you most worried about today and into tomorrow? And what messaging can we do to help people in the hours before it makes landfall?
 
CRISWELL:  Mr. President, the biggest concern is making sure people have gotten out of harm's way. Over the next 24 hours, we are going to see significant winds. We are going to see storm surge. We are going to see flooding from the rain. People need to be able to take this storm seriously. They need to move, if they still have time to move, out of harm's way. And we are prepared to support Florida with additional search and rescue assets to help save lives. That's our immediate concern, Mr. President, is saving lives over the next 24 hours.
 
BIDEN:  Have you ever seen a storm like this one since you've been in charge?
 
CRISWELL:  I think this is going to be one of the biggest ones that we have seen after it makes landfall. I mean, we saw a lot of impact from Hurricane Ian, but this one is different. This one just looks different and I think we're going to have a lot of impacts and people that are going to need our help, sir.
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
BIDEN:  Well, thank you very much.
 
HARRIS:  Administrator Criswell --
 
CRISWELL:  Thank you. Yes, ma'am.
 
HARRIS:  Are we concerned about any misinformation or disinformation regarding evacuations that we need to clear up at this point?
 
CRISWELL:  There's been a lot of misinformation out there, Madam Vice President, that's for sure. But I have not heard anything specific to the evacuations. I think that the local officials, the state officials have been very strong in getting that message out there and getting people to move out of harm's way. I was in Florida on Monday and met with the mayor of Tampa as well as the mayor of St. Petersburg, and we saw people evacuating. And so they are listening to their local officials and that was encouraging.
 
HARRIS:  That's great. Thank you.
 
SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  I think we'll move on then. Thank you, Administrator Criswell. We'll move to Director Brennan from the National Hurricane Center.
 
MICHAEL BRENNAN, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER:  Thank you, Liz. Mr. President, Madam Vice President, good afternoon. As Administrator Criswell mentioned, we are just hours away from seeing a potentially catastrophic hurricane landfall along the West Coast of Florida. With the center of Milton expected to cross the coast late this evening or very early tomorrow morning, it's a powerful major hurricane and a large hurricane at that.
 
We are already seeing multiple life-threatening hazards playing out across Florida. We have multiple tornado warnings in effect across portions of Southern Florida. We're seeing winds increasing, heavy rainfall spreading across much of the state, and conditions are going to rapidly deteriorate over the next few hours, especially where landfall is going to occur along the West Coast. That's where we're expecting that devastating storm surge of as much as 10 to 15 feet above ground level from somewhere near the Tampa Bay region southward to Port Charlotte, with significant storm surge extending hundreds of miles even farther south to the Fort Myers and Naples area.
 
And that is why we have had been supporting so many evacuation decisions to get people away from that devastating storm surge. Time is running out now for people to leave along the West Coast before conditions deteriorate further. Additionally, Milton is going to be a powerful hurricane when it makes landfall and move quickly across the state and remain at hurricane intensity as it moves across Florida tonight and as it enters the Western Atlantic during the day tomorrow. So, that is going to bring the risk of hurricane conditions to much of the central portion of the state.
 
We have hurricane warnings in effect from Fort Myers up through Tampa to Cedar Key along the West Coast, all the way through the I-4 Corridor across Orlando to Daytona Beach, up to St. Augustine, including the Cape Canaveral area and the East Coast down to Port St. Lucie. So a large area is at risk of seeing devastating wind impacts, widespread power outages, structural damage, and that could lead to a very unsafe environment after the storm, where we tend to see a lot of post-storm fatalities in this very dangerous environment that's left.
 
Additionally, we are expecting very heavy rainfall, six to 12 inches amounts as high as 18 inches across the heavily populated I-4 Corridor from Tampa to Orlando to Daytona Beach, which could lead to widespread catastrophic and life-threatening flash flooding and urban flooding tonight and into Thursday in that area. And that's an area where we lost about 16 people in Hurricane Ian to that same type of flooding, so there's a tremendous risk to both life and property there.
 
I do want to thank the Administrator and FEMA and her -- for her team's support and our coordination on that. And I finally want to thank the NOAA and Air Force Reserve Hurricane Hunters who've been flying into Milton for days now, providing us just tremendously valuable direct data that has really helped inform our lifesaving forecast and warnings.
 
So thank you, Mr. President and Madam Vice President.
 
BIDEN:  Mike, I know you're tired of hearing from me. I've been talking to you so much lately. But I appreciate your constant input you've given me and let me know what's going on. What more can you tell us about how the location of this storm is going to affect the storm surge in Florida? I mean, because that's pretty consequential, right? The surge, I mean that's that what you're focusing on.
 
BRENNAN:  Yes, Mr. President, just a shift of a few miles in the landfall location will make a big difference in what area sees that very worst storm surge. So a track of the center to the north of Tampa Bay would push the highest storm surge into Tampa Bay itself. A track five or 10 or 20 miles south would push that higher storm surge say down to the Sarasota Port Charlotte area. Even as close as we are to landfall, it's not really possible to tell exactly where that worst surge will occur. It's one wobble away from shifting 10 or 20 miles. So that's why we've conveyed that risk across such a large area to help support the evacuation of much of that west central coast of Florida. BIDEN:  But Tampa Bay is particularly vulnerable, correct?
 
BRENNAN:  Correct. Yes, Mr. President. It's one of the most vulnerable locations along the entire West Coast of Florida because water gets funneled up into the Bay. if you were to see a worst-case scenario there, you could see storm surge as much as twice as high as they saw during Helene, where it got up to seven or eight feet in the Bay. It could potentially get up above 10 feet in this event.
 
BIDEN:  Well, thanks a lot, Mike. I appreciate it.