Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Polish Farmers Protest EU Policies, Ukraine Imports; Biden, Congressional Leaders Discuss Shutdown, Ukraine; Warm Winter in Italy Leaves Ski Resorts with No Snow; Bucha Mourns Victims of Atrocities, Two Years On; Birthplace of "Bohemian Rhapsody" Hits the Market. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired February 28, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. If you're just joining us, here are some of today's top stories.
 
American voters are now one step closer to a Trump-Biden rematch in November. Donald Trump banked another win with the Michigan primary and President Joe Biden took the Democratic contest by a wide margin. However, a significant number of voters did cast their ballots for uncommitted in protest against his support for Israel.
 
Mexico's most dangerous active volcano spewed ash and smoke into the sky on Tuesday, causing some flight cancellations at Mexico City's main airport. But authorities say there's currently no risk for people who are living in the area.
 
And the Bank of England has just unveiled banknotes featuring the portrait of King Charles III. The new currency will enter circulation in Britain starting June 5th. The new notes featuring the king will only be printed to replace those that are worn and a bit scruffy, we're told. 
 
FOSTER: Quite rightly.
 
Farmers across Europe have been protesting the EU's economic and regulatory policies in recent weeks amid the rising costs of energy, fertilizers and transport and grain imports as well from Ukraine. Now, Poland's Prime Minister says he may consider a wider ban on Ukrainian food imports after Polish farmers took to the streets on Tuesday. CNN's Isa Soares has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Farmers are angry and have had enough.
 
The piercing sirens echo through Warsaw streets as thousands of farmers gather to demonstrate against EU measures imposed on them. The latest demonstrations escalate an ongoing dispute for weeks where farmers in over a dozen EU countries have been disrupting highways, border checkpoints and city centers against what they say is unfair competition from outside the EU, particularly Ukraine, as well as restrictive environmental policies.
 
KAMIL WOJCIECHOWSKI, POLISH FARMER (through translator): We protest because we want the Green Deal to be lifted because it will bring our farms to bankruptcy as the costs of the Green Deal are not comparable to what we harvest and what we're paid for it.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
SOARES (voice-over): Earlier this month, Polish farmers began a series of protests throughout the country, blocking highway border crossings to Ukraine and spilling at least 160 tons of Ukrainian grain, intentionally dumping corn across train tracks, which angered Ukrainian officials, demanding that those involved be punished.
 
Now their rally cries are being heard within Warsaw city center for marching straight towards the prime minister's office. In an act of defiance, Polish farmers blocked a key highway to the German border on Monday, which they say is a fight for all citizens of the EU.
 
DARIUSZ WROBEL, POLISH FARMER (through translator): We are fighting on behalf of all citizens so that they have access to healthy food produced in the European Union, so that food is not a luxury good and is available to all consumers throughout the EU.
 
SOARES (voice-over): EU ministers huddled together on Monday, trying to streamline rules and reduce red tape as police and protesters clashed outside.
 
Belgium's streets were also paralyzed, with some 900 tractors backed up in the capital. Over in Catalonia, tractors blocked a busy highway between France and Spain, with union leaders demanding more noise.
 
But despite the week's long dispute, there has been no resolution yet. And as the anger grows, so does the test for EU unity. 
 
Isa Soares, CNN, London
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: The White House is ramping up pressure on U.S. lawmakers to pass additional funding for Ukraine, with a partial government shutdown just days away now.
 
FOSTER: President Joe Biden met top congressional leaders for talks on Tuesday. The U.S. House Speaker insisting lawmakers tackle border security before agreeing to any aid deal for Ukraine. 
 
After the meeting, U.S. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer sounded optimistic about avoiding a shutdown.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), U.S. SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: We made it so clear that we can have the shutdown because it hurts so many people in so many different ways, even for a short period of time, was very apparent in the room. And the Speaker did not reject that. He said he wants to avoid a government shutdown. So that was very heartening. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: CNN's Melanie Zanona has the latest from Capitol Hill. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELANIE ZANONA, CNN CAPITOL HILL REPORTER: Well, in a positive sign, all four congressional leaders left a meeting at the White House with President Biden on Tuesday, saying they do not want a government shutdown.
 
And since then, we've heard from key lawmakers expressing optimism that they are going to be able to come to an agreement on four different government spending bills ahead of Friday's first deadline. Let's take a listen to GOP leader Mitch McConnell.
 
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), U.S. SENATE MINORITY LEADER: I think it's pretty safe to say we all agree we need to avoid a government shutdown. Speaker was optimistic that they'll be able to move forward first with the four bills. And under no circumstances does anybody want to shut the government down. So I think we can stop that drama right here before it emerges. We're simply not going to do that.
 
ZANONA: Now, that does not mean it is a done deal. We are at a stage in the negotiations where it could all come together very quickly or it could all easily fall apart. At issue is that Speaker Mike Johnson has been under immense pressure from his right flank to fight for a number of conservative policy wins. And we're told that some of the last-minute hang ups have revolved around WIC, which is the Women, Infants and Children program, as well as provisions related to guns and veterans and background checks.
 
But really, at this point, the ball is seen as in Speaker Mike Johnson's court, as you have Mitch McConnell, Chuck Schumer, Hakeem Jeffries all urging him to drop demands and try to come up with as clean as legislation as possible, clean bipartisan agreement. That is what they are pushing for.
 
Now, if a deal does come together within the next 24 to 48 hours, under that scenario, the House would act first. It would then kick over to the Senate. But in order to move quickly, it would require unanimous cooperation from the Senate. So even if a deal comes together soon, there's a chance that they're going to need a very short-term stopgap spending bill or else stumble into a partial government shutdown.
 
And just to note here, those first four government funding bills are thought to be among the easiest. There are even more complicated bills that are running out of money next Friday. So all of this at this point, expected to come down to the wire.
 
Melanie Zanona, CNN Capitol Hill.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) NOBILO: The longest sled dog race in the eastern U.S. has been canceled this year because of lack of snow, meaning that the trail might be dangerous for participants. Race organizers say the unseasonably warm weather caused by the climate crisis and an unexpected rainstorm could degrade the trails even further.
 
FOSTER: The National Weather Service says snowfall has been about two feet below average this month alone. But the sled dog race organizers are hopeful that the annual event will be back next year. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
The climate crisis also causing a meltdown for the economy in central Italy. The above average temperatures this winter has left ski resorts with no snow on the ground. 
 
CNN's Barbie Nadeau explains how that's impacting tourism. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): These mountains in central Italy used to be a favorite spot for local skiers. Now, the area looks more like a barren, muddy wasteland.
 
NADEAU: February is supposed to be the biggest and busiest month here at Campo Felice ski resort in the Apennine Mountains in central Italy, not this year. As you see behind me, all of these mountains that are brown are supposed to be covered with snow. This year, instead, there just hasn't been the snow. The only snow you see here was made with artificial snow machines.
 
NADEAU (voice-over): The human-caused climate crisis has resulted in snow loss across the northern hemisphere. Here, more than 4,400 feet above sea level, where snow is disappearing fast, people are questioning how much longer skiing can go on. This year, the influence of El Nino means temperatures have been even higher than usual.
 
Normally, on a Sunday in February, you'd have 6,000 people skiing on these slopes. This year, only four of the 14th slopes were open. Of the 250 people who work here normally, only 50 have been able to keep their jobs, because the season has been so mild and short. 
 
This ski resort has been in Andrea Lallini's family for 23 years. First, his father and now, he and his brother, Luca, run it. He says the seasons have been getting shorter over the years. 
 
He tells us the problem is lack of precipitation, plus it has never gotten cold. This year, winter barely even arrived, he says.
 
They tell us that in the 1980s and 1090s, artificial snow wasn't necessary. There was plenty of the natural stuff to go around. This year, snow machines were the resort's only option. 
 
But even that is problematic because, last summer, there was very little rain and lakes like this one ran dry. There was no water to make snow and even fake snow melts if it is too warm. It's a vicious cycle, he says. 
 
And non-skiers feel the impact too. Gennarino Di Stefano is the mayor of Rocca di Cambio. He says the town's livelihood revolves around this ski resort and those nearby. The changing climate is having a ripple effect on the economy.
 
GENNARINO DI STEFANO, MAYOR OF ROCCA DI CAMBIO, ITALY (through translator): Every town has a good number of people who come here to work from the ski instructors, the managers of the bars, the restaurants, the people who run the ski lifts. Many people are not working.
 
NADEAU (voice-over): And for ski instructors like Isidoro Franceschi, the lack of snow and shorter season means these young competitive skiers have to go elsewhere to train.
 
ISIDORO FRANCESCHI, HEAD SKI INSTRUCTOR AT CAMPO FELICE (through translator): For those of us who have always worked in this area, it is heartbreaking to see nature spoiled like this. It isn't good.
 
NADEAU (voice-over): As skiers turn to resorts at higher elevations where there's more snow, skiing in places like this will soon be wiped out for good.
 
Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Campo Felice, Italy.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: The self-proclaimed most magical place on Earth is about to get a bit more expensive too. 2025 tickets to Walt Disney World are now on sale and prices are going up. The cost varies depending on when you plan to go and which parks you visit. 
 
FOSTER: The lowest one, the one-day, one-park ticket, will cost you $119. That's up $10. The most expensive one, one-park ticket, will cost $189. The price of a park hopper ticket will go up $5 to $10. The changes take effect on January 1st. 
 
You know that. Have you been there? 
 
NOBILO: Yes, I've been to loads of them. I once got stuck upside down on Thunder Mountain. But my parents live very close. 
 
FOSTER: Was that what put you off those prices? 
 
NOBILO: I mean, I've stopped wanting to go to Disney World, sorry. To any Disney fans over there. Because when you go as an adult, you then realize that everything looks quite small and isn't that magical. But when you go as a kid -- 
 
FOSTER: Not actually real.
 
NOBILO: -- impressive. Yes, I know. Sad.
 
FOSTER: Hong Kong hoping to boost tourism through fireworks and drone shows. The government has announced plans for monthly shows against the backdrop of Victoria Harbor. 
 
NOBILO: The city's also planning to revamp its nightly light and sound show, a Symphony of Lights. It's all part of a $12 million plan to boost mega event promotion over the next three years. Last year, Hong Kong gave away half a million free airline tickets to boost tourism. 
 
Still ahead this hour, baseball's highest paid player makes his spring training debut with the Los Angeles Dodgers. We'll see how he fared. 
 
FOSTER: Plus, Pattie Boyd, Eric Clapton, George Harrison's love triangle letters will be up for auction in March. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Just into CNN, the funeral for late Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny will take place this Friday. That's according to a spokesperson who posted the news on social media along with the name of the church where services will be held in Moscow.
 
NOBILO: Navalny died under mysterious circumstances earlier this month at the Siberian penal colony where he was being held. His body was handed over to his mother late last week. 
 
Residents in Bucha, Ukraine are remembering the lives lost during Russia's brutal occupation two years ago. The Kyiv suburb was the scene of horrific atrocities early in the war, which Ukraine has long argued amount to war crimes. 
 
CNN's Christiane Amanpour visited Bucha on the anniversary of the invasion. And a warning, her report contains graphic images.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (voiceover): Father Andriy Halavin, of St. Andrew's church, walks me through Bucha's grisly place in history. Hundreds were brutally killed here during Russia's month-long occupation, including women, children, the elderly.
 
FATHER ANDRIY HALAVIN, ST. ANDREW'S CHURCH: Ninety-nine years old.
 
AMANPOUR: Oh my god, 1923 to 2022.
 
HALAVIN: Yes. Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: Ninety-nine years old and a child of two years old.
 
AMANPOUR (voice-over): These people died not during the fighting, but during the occupation says Father Andriy, when the Russian world came here, and this is its face, these are corpses. These are rape people. This is every apartment and house looted. This is the face of the Russian world.
 
Father Andriy became known after the Russians were pushed back for revealing the side of a mass grave just here on his church grounds, filled with 160 people.
 
He shows me the original posting about it on Facebook, March 12th, 2022, when Russian forces were still occupying Bucha. And from this memorial, you can see that red house, most of the family was killed as they tried to flee. When the Russians turned a heavy machine gun on their car.
 
It still haunts and horrifies the grandmother, Valentyna Chekmarova.
 
It's very hard for me to remember this, two years have passed, and it seems like it happened today, she says. I saw them off to get out of this hell, but they didn't. They were shocked.
 
This is the fate they were trying to escape. The main street, Yablunska, in this residential Kyiv suburb, strewn with bodies, all clearly civilians. The discovery of basement torture and execution centers. People forced to kneel and lie with hands tied behind their backs, women and girls raped.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
TETIANA USTYMENKO, RESIDENT OF BUCHA (through translator): How could this happen? How could this happen?
 
AMANPOUR: Standing in Yablunska Street today, feels a little like standing in a graveyard. It's where the horrors of the Russian invasion were first exposed. And it remains a field of evidence, a memorial and a pilgrimage site.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): We believe that these are war crimes, and this all would be recognized as a genocide by the world.
 
AMANPOUR (voiceover): President Zelenskyy came here, April 4th, 2022, right after his forces drove the Russians out. And he brings all his international visitors and world leaders to Bucha to remind the world just what they're fighting against.
 
Moscow has claimed without evidence that this was all staged and was a planned media campaign. Ruslan Kravchenko was the war crimes prosecutor. He is now governor of the Kyiv region.
 
Do you remember when the Russians said it was fake and the bodies were fake? And that the Ukrainians had killed people themselves? He asked me. When we seize the phones, we proved to the whole world that it was the Russians who killed people -- Ukrainians.
 
Ruslan says the war crimes investigations continue, using a trove of evidence from multiple cameras, phones, and other recordings. But when they inform the Russian soldiers, they identify, they don't cooperate.
 
And Father Andriy tells us the awful truth is, that bodies are still being discovered today. Two years on.
 
From time to time, we find someone by accident, he says. The Russians had hidden their bodies somewhere and we find them. So, unfortunately, the number of people who died is increasing.
 
Christiane Amanpour, CNN, Bucha.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Coming up next, what made a routine landing in London turn into a nail-biting experience for people on board this flight. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Baseball's highest-paid player is off to a fast start with his new team. Japanese superstar Shohei Ohtani hit a home run in his spring training debut with the Los Angeles Dodgers. But it wasn't all fireworks, as he also struck out and hit into a double play. 
 
NOBILO: Ohtani signed a 10-year, $700 million contract with the Dodgers in the offseason.
 
It seems Taylor Swift knows the best way to a man's heart is through his stomach. Kansas City Chiefs head coach Andy Reid says that she baked homemade treats for her boyfriend, tie-end Travis Kelce. How does she find the time? And his fellow offensive linemen during the season? 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDY REID, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS HEAD COACH: She sincerely enjoys the game.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. 
 
REID: And kind of behind the scenes, she likes to cook, so she made the offensive linemen these homemade Pop-Tarts. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, wow.
 
REID: So it was over. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What? Taylor Swift homemade Pop-Tarts? 
 
REID: Yes, so it was over. She knew right where to go.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Amazing. 
 
Stories in the Spotlight, the home where Freddie Mercury may have seen a little silhouette of a man and even did a fandango. It's up for sale.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FREDDIE MERCURY, BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY, SONG BY QUEEN: Mama, ooh, didn't mean to make you cry If I'm not back again this time tomorrow Carry on, carry on as if nothing really matters (END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:55:03]
 
NOBILO: The late Queen frontman composed the famous Bohemian Rhapsody with his grand piano at this Kensington property in West London. Asking price, $38 million and it features a Japanese sitting room, library and music center.
 
FOSTER: Mercury bought the house on the spot when he first visited in 1980, probably at a much better price. He bequeathed it to his close friend, Mary Austin, upon his death 11 years later. She took care of the house and its possessions for decades but has now begun auctioning them all off.
 
NOBILO: And British model Pattie Boyd inspired a number of songs by music legends Eric Clapton and George Harrison like this 1970s hit. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERIC CLAPTON, LAYLA: You've been running and hiding much too long You know, it's just your foolish pride
 
Layla, you got me on my knees ...
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Oh, I didn't know she inspired Layla. That is actually one of my favorite songs. I was about to make a joke, obviously about your age, but I love that song. 
 
Now, the British model has put a collection of mementos up for auction, including love letters from Harrison and Clapton. 
 
FOSTER: Do you want to read them? 
 
NOBILO: I personally could go without.
 
FOSTER: Some of the notes from Clapton were written to her while she was married to Harrison. Song lyrics, postcards, drawings, photographs also up for sale. Auction House Christie says the collection is a fascinating glimpse into the lives of some of music's most influential and iconic figures.
 
NOBILO: And a harrowing landing for travelers on a plane arriving at London's Heathrow Airport on Monday. 
 
NOBILO: Well, it's the wind. Was it the wind? 
 
NOBILO: Yes, I think so.
 
FOSTER: Yes, here we go. It's from Flight Focus 365. The British Airways plane was struggling against heavy crosswinds and it looks pretty unsteady as it try to land. Really did. After failing the first time, it did land safely on the second attempt, I can reassure you. Local media saying the plane was travelling from Berlin. I mean, you've got to have respect for pilots in this situation. 
 
NOBILO: You do. That actually happened to me going into Belfast last time. I flew in there, that exact same thing. And it is impressive. Actually, it's a very good news story about the capability of pilots and planes. 
 
FOSTER: Yes, literally landing sideways. 
 
Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster. 
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. CNN "THIS MORNING" is up next after a short break. We'll see you tomorrow. 
 <br>[05:00:00]