Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Harris Sits Down in a NBC News Interview Ahead of Her CNN Town Hall, Trump Tackles with Latino Voters; CDC issues Food Safety Alert for E. coli Outbreak linked to McDonald's Quarter Pounders; New PSA Features Celebrities Warning the Use of A.I. in Election Disinformation. Aired 3-3:45a ET

Aired October 23, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead. 
 
America's top diplomat meets with the Israeli Prime Minister, pressing him to capitalize on the death of the Hamas leader and end the fighting in Gaza. 
 
A new report suggests Donald Trump privately praised the loyalty of Nazi military leaders, saying he needed quote, "the kind of generals Hitler had." 
 
Plus, A.I. and election fears. How bad actors are using deep fakes of actual celebrities to mislead voters. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from Atlanta, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us and we are following new developments out of the Middle East where the Israeli military now says it has killed three Hezbollah commanders over the past 48 hours as it pushes forward with its military operations in Lebanon. The Israeli military is warning residents in the city of Tyre in southern Lebanon to immediately evacuate some areas due to ongoing military operations against Hezbollah. 
 
On Tuesday, Israeli airstrikes targeted sites in south and northeast Lebanon and Beirut's southern suburbs. The Israel Defense Forces claims two buildings flattened by one strike were Hezbollah weapon storage facilities. There's been no word on casualties there, but Lebanon's health ministry says at least 10 people were killed in two other strikes.
 
The U.N. human rights chief says he is appalled by an Israeli strike on Monday near Beirut's Rafic Hariri University Hospital that caused significant damage and killed at least 18 people. The IDF says it hit a Hezbollah terrorist target. Meantime, the IDF says a possible successor to the late Hezbollah leader and other commanders of the Iran-backed group were killed in an attack in Beirut earlier this month. Hezbollah is yet to confirm that claim. 
 
Well U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in the Middle East and just a short time ago, Sirens delayed the top U.S. diplomat departure to Saudi Arabia. He reiterated the need for a ceasefire in Gaza. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: In the space of a year, it's managed to dismantle Hamas' military capacity. It's destroyed a bunch of its arsenal. It's eliminated its senior leadership, including most recently, Yahya Sinwar. This has covered the cost -- great cost to Palestinian civilians in Gaza.
 
Now is the time to turn those successes into an enduring strategic success. And there are really two things left to do. Get the hostages home and bring the war to an end with an understanding of what will follow. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: On Tuesday, Blinken sat down with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other top officials as part of a push to revive Gaza ceasefire and hostage talks, even as Israel continues its military operations in the enclave. 
 
Let's bring in CNN's Salma Abdelaziz, who is covering this for us live from London. Good morning to you, Salma. So what is the latest on strikes across Lebanon and the push to revive ceasefire and hostage negotiations following Secretary Blinken's visit? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so let's start with Secretary of State Antony Blinken's visit as you mentioned as he was leaving in this very active situation Sirens delaying his departure. He had yesterday a two and a half hour meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu that was described as substantive. 
 
One of the most important topics or described as a prominent topic was the issue of humanitarian aid entering northern Gaza. There's been virtually no aid, no help, no assistance that's gone into that portion that right now is heavily affected, part of a renewed offensive by ground forces in Israeli warplanes.
 
There was evacuation orders and fears that something is being carried out that's been called the General's Plan, which is essentially to force the evacuation of all residents out of northern Gaza and then lay siege to that area. Israeli officials in these meetings with Blinken denied that that's the plan. There was a push from U.S. officials for Israel to publicly declare this, but there was no commitment from Prime Minister Netanyahu to do so. 
 <br>[03:05:00]
 
And it comes as, yet again, humanitarian groups, aid agencies, United Nations is warning that what is unfolding in northern Gaza will only lead to more bloodletting, more suffering, and could potentially amount to war crimes. You also mentioned Lebanon.
 
Again, this morning more airstrikes. The focus right now very much those southern suburbs of Beirut as well as the south of Lebanon, particularly the area of Tyre, where Israel's military says that it's issued what it calls evacuation orders to force people out of their homes. 
 
Israel says that it is working to defeat, dismantle and destroy Hezbollah and it is claiming that it has made major gains. You mentioned three Hezbollah commanders killed in 48 hours, a successor as well, potentially to Nasrallah as well, killed. But healthcare workers on the ground, aid agencies, Lebanese families say that what's playing out is absolutely horrifying.
 
They fear that what's unfolding in Lebanon will look very similar to what has taken place in Gaza. I want to speak specifically about the medical care system, the hospital system in Lebanon. You have five hospitals since the start of this offensive. Five hospitals in Lebanon completely out of operation, 22 who are partially destroyed. 
 
One Lebanese medical official saying, we feel potentially that we feel we are targeted by these Israeli strikes, vehemently denying any of those accusations, those claims from Israeli officials that there's Hezbollah infrastructure in and around these hospitals.
 
He believes this Lebanese official, this healthcare official says that the aim of these Israeli attacks is to destroy and dismantle the country's health care system. We continue to see this offensive expand of course, Rosemary, claiming not just these sites in southern Lebanon, but also public institutions and medical care facilities. 150 health care workers have been killed, according to Lebanese officials. 
 
CHURCH: All right. Our thanks to Salma Abdelaziz. Bring us that live report from London. 
 
Kamala Harris will make her case to voters tonight in a CNN town hall as the race for the White House hurtles toward the finish line with no clear leader in the polls. With 13 days to go, both Harris and Donald Trump are looking for every opportunity to win over undecided voters.
 
It's a decision that could change the future of the United States and as Donald Trump continues to claim without evidence that the upcoming election is being rigged against him, there is growing concern about what he might do if Kamala Harris wins the presidency. Harris spoke with NBC News about how her team is preparing for that possibility. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VICE PRESIDENT KAMALA HARRIS (D), U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We will deal with election night and the days after as they come and we have the resources and the expertise and the focus on that as well. 
 
HALLIE JACKSON, NBC NEWS SR. WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: So you have teams ready to go, is that what you're saying? Are you thinking about that as a possibility? 
 
HARRIS: Of course. This is a person, Donald Trump, who tried to undo the free and fair election, who still denies the will of the people, who incited a violent mob to attack the United States Capitol and 140 law enforcement officers were attacked. Some were killed. This is a serious matter. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Harris campaign surrogate Barack Obama has been hitting the campaign trail hard in key battleground states. On Tuesday, the former president rallied in Michigan delivering a blistering critique of Donald Trump.
 
Our Jeff Zeleny has more on that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Former President Barack Obama visiting his fifth battleground state and his fifth campaign rally for Vice President Kamala Harris, rallying voters on Tuesday night in Michigan.
 
The former president will be making his first joint appearance with Harris on Thursday in Georgia. But here in Michigan, this critical blue wall battle state, he again and again made a case for Harris and drew a sharp contrast with Donald Trump, directly going after him on immigration. 
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: This is their go-to about everything, blame immigrants. He wants you to believe that if you let him round up whoever he wants and ship him out, all your problems will be solved. 
 
ZELENY: Thousands of people turned out to see the former president on Tuesday night in Detroit. He visited Wisconsin earlier in the day, also Arizona over the weekend and Nevada as well. Pennsylvania last week, he's making his way around the battleground states.
 
By next week, he will have hit all seven. Aides say he may go around and do them all again in his biggest blitz of campaigning since leaving the White House in early 2017. Yes, he is trying to amplify Kamala Harris' candidacy, but he is also committed to try and stop Donald Trump. Now Michelle Obama will be making her first appearance on the campaign trail here in Michigan on Saturday. 
 
Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Detroit. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[03:10:06]
 
CHURCH: With polls showing the race for the White House in a dead heat, Trump and Harris are each looking to pick up new support and they're both working to win the votes of Latinos.
 
Our Alayna Treene looks at Trump's efforts to reach out and his latest ugly personal attack on Kamala Harris. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Well with just two weeks until election day, former President Donald Trump spent his Tuesday starting off with a roundtable with Latino and Hispanic voters and leaders.
 
Now, part of that is because Donald Trump's campaign, their strategy in this final stretch is to really target specific demographics that they think could help them on the margins. And that's because they recognize that this election is going to be incredibly close and they want to not only siphon voters away from the Harris campaign but also try and turn out low propensity voters.
 
Now, one of those key demographics is Hispanic and Latino men and that's in addition to them targeting black men as well as female voters. But part of what Donald Trump was trying to do was when he was speaking with them, he talked about the economy, about energy, both things that are of course very core to his stump speech. But then he also went into detail about immigration.
 
Now, it was the typical rhetoric we have heard from Donald Trump. He criticized Harris's handling of the southern border and he claimed that many migrants are coming over illegally to commit crimes in the United States. Now, I often am asked, does this strategy actually help Donald Trump when he's trying to target Hispanic and Latino voters? 
 
But the Trump campaign believes that it does. They think that many voters actually who have immigrated here have done so legally and that the border is one of their top issues. I've actually heard similarly when I'm speaking to Trump supporters at rallies.
 
I talked to many people who have migrated here legally and they do argue that the border is one of their top issues. Now, also part of what Donald Trump did during that roundtable was demean Harris. He went after her for being lazy and slow and also criticized her for having a low I.Q. Take a listen. 
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Who the hell takes off? You have 14 days left and she'll take a couple of more days off too. You know why she's lazy as hell and she's got that reputation. There's something wrong with her too. She's slow, low I.Q., something.
 
I don't know what the hell it is. This stupid person, this stupid person that was the border, border czar, she was made the border czar, now she said she wasn't. She was the border czar for three and a half years. 
 
TREENE: Now there's no question that Donald Trump has really escalated his personal attacks on Harris in recent weeks and I'm told that he's likely to continue doing so in this final stretch. So I don't think this will be the end of some of those personal attacks on her.
 
But I also want to preview just what he was doing on Tuesday night, which was he was back in North Carolina. This was his second day of campaign events in North Carolina. He also made three different stops there on Monday. And I think that just underscores how important North Carolina is to the Trump campaign's strategy.
 
Remember, this is a state that he won both in 2016 and in 2020, but when he was up against Biden in 2020, it was the state that he won by the smallest margin. So this is something they recognize is not guaranteed. 
 
And I will also tell you that from my conversations with Trump's advisors, they had really thought North Carolina was going to be an easier win when they were running, when Donald Trump, I should say, was running against Joe Biden. They recognized that Harris has a lot more enthusiasm in the state, and that's part of why you're seeing him campaign there so aggressively. 
 
Alayna Treene, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Trump's campaign is angrily denying some harsh new claims made against him in a new story published by "The Atlantic". The article claims that while serving as president, Trump praised Adolf Hitler's military leaders, saying he wished U.S. military personnel showed him the same deference.
 
The article says multiple sources confirm that Trump said, and I'm quoting here, "I need the kind of generals that Hitler had, people who were totally loyal to him that follow orders. The article also says Trump was furious when he was told how much the funeral of a fallen service member cost after he publicly offered to pay for it."
 
"The Atlantic" claims when Trump got the $60,000 bill for private first-class Vanessa Guillen's funeral, he said, it doesn't cost $60,000 to bury an f--ing Mexican. Guillen, who was bludgeoned with a hammer on the Texas base where she worked, was Mexican-American. Again, the Trump campaign strongly denies both allegations. 
 
Ron Brownstein is CNN's senior political analyst and the senior editor for "The Atlantic". He joins me now from Sonoma in California. Appreciate you being with us. 
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SR. POLITICAL ANALYST AND SR. EDITOR, "THE ATLANTIC": Hi Rosemary. 
 <br>[03:14:56]
 
CHURCH: So let's start with that bombshell article in your publication "The Atlantic" where Jeffrey Goldberg writes about Donald Trump Apparently saying in the closing days of his presidency that he quote "needs the kind of generals that Hitler had."
 
Two sources confirmed Trump said this, one of them former Trump chief of staff General John Kelly who also said in a "New York Times" interview that Trump fits the Definition of a fascist and has previously said that Hitler did a lot of good things. Now the Trump campaign denies all of this. What's your reaction and what impact will it likely have on voters with just less than two weeks to go to election now? BROWNSTEIN: Yeah, this is an extraordinary moment. I think it is the
 
 testimony from John Kelly, who let's remember is a retired four-star general, the former head of the Southern Command, who was Donald Trump's cabinet secretary at the Department of Homeland Security and later his White House chief-of-staff, saying today publicly, amid all the tradition and reluctance of former military officers to say anything that affects American politics.
 
He is saying publicly that based on his close personal interaction over years with Donald Trump, he believes he fits the definition of a fascist does not understand the basis of American constitutional democracy and is fundamentally an authoritarian.
 
It is a stark a warning as we have ever heard. I believe about a presidential candidate from someone who was at his elbow in the White House for years. I'd believe his longest serving chief of staff. 
 
And you know we can't say yet what impact this will have except it does reinforce what we have already seen what we saw yesterday when Vice President Harris campaigned with former Republican representative Liz Cheney across three white collar suburbs outside Philadelphia, Detroit, and Milwaukee in the states that are most likely to decide the presidential race, appealing to the white collar Republicans, sometimes thought of as Haley voters, who are the most uneasy with Trump.
 
I suspect we're going to hear what General Kelly said quite a bit on television and radio between now and the end, and it really poses I think a very stark choice for all Republicans who are finding a way to kind of bite their lip about their reservations about Trump. This is very stark testimony and a very clear warning. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah, no doubt we'll see them in ads, I'm sure. So Vice President Kamala Harris did two interviews on Tuesday. On NBC, Harris said she and her team were prepared for the possibility that Trump would declare victory before all votes are counted.
 
She also declined to say if she would pardon Trump, if she were to win the election, and refused to be drawn into discussion on any concessions on fundamental freedoms like abortion. What stood out to you in that interview, and could any of it move the needle for Harris, do you think? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, first of all, as I said about Joe Biden, I think there's no chance that a Democratic president will pardon Donald Trump. That the Ford argument that the country would be torn apart by a trial of an ex-president, I cannot imagine them finding persuasive, especially after arguing, as they have, that he is an existential threat to American democracy.
 
So, you know, I don't think there's anything in that interview that's really going to change things very much. I mean, you know, we are we're talking about a race at the margins. You know it's interesting I mean Harris is obviously more competitive than Biden was among voters of color and as a result is more competitive in the Sun Belt battlegrounds of Georgia, North Carolina in the southeast, Arizona and Nevada in the southwest.
 
But even though she's more competitive it's not clear that she can really win any of those which means that her path to the White House may be the same as Biden's in the end which is sweeping the three Rust Belt battlegrounds that were in the blue wall, that Trump dislodged from the blue wall in 2016, places where she was with Liz Cheney yesterday, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. And those are states where the election administration process is, I think, in safe hands, Democratic governors and all of them.
 
Ultimately, the Electoral Count Act reforms passed by Congress in '22 give the governor the final word on certifying the winner. So Trump can rage and storm and you know the speaker of the house, if Republicans hold the house, may support him and create mischief down the road but he doesn't control the government this time. So his ability I think to try to undermine the election is significantly reduced. 
 
CHURCH: Ron Brownstein joining us from Sonoma in California. Many thanks as always. I appreciate it. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Thanks for having me.
 
CHURCH: Just ahead, a show of international unity without influence from the West. We'll have the latest on the BRICS Summit in Russia and what global leaders plan to discuss. Back in just a moment. 
 <br>[03:20:01]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Global leaders have assembled in Russia for the first official day of the BRICS Summit. This year's event is being hosted by President Vladimir Putin. It's been described by some as a convergence of nations who want to see a shift in the global balance of power. Although President Putin has denied it's an anti-West alliance. 
 
CNN's Steven Jiang is following the story from Beijing. But first, let's bring in Clare Sebastian who's standing by in London. So Clare. What all is expected on this first official day of the summit and what is the message being sent to the West? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Rosemary, the summit now expected to get underway. One of the first things we expect to see is a group photo of all the delegations involved.
 
I think that will be a real moment for Russia in terms of the message it wants to send to the West, that it has failed in its efforts to isolate Russia, and I think it is a measure of Russia's ability to sort of gloss over its unprovoked aggression in Ukraine and to find a willing audience for that around the world with this now-expanded BRICS grouping.
 
It's not just rhetoric, it is now taking its place in this very broad global alliance encompassing some 40-plus percent, almost half of the global population. And it is really emphasizing that fact. One of the major Russian talk shows played a montage last night of U.S. Western leaders talking about how isolated Russia is and in a split screen the arrivals that we saw yesterday of Xi Jinping, of Narendra Modi, Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa really making a mockery of those Western statements. 
 
So that is the sort of, the messaging that we're getting from Russia and I think it is something that Western countries now more than ever are going to have to factor into their calculus when it comes to Ukraine and their support for its ongoing defense.
 
So in terms of what we're expecting to see today a meeting of the BRICS there, the nine members of that now expanded group President Putin will continue with his many bilateral meetings that he has trailed that he's going to have over these few days.
 
We're expecting to see him meet with Turkish President Erdogan not a BRICS member. In fact, it is a NATO member, but still attending this summit also with Maduro of Venezuela. So a number of different meetings one thing that has got a lot of attention is that the U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres is attending this summit. Ukraine has expressed extreme displeasure about this, saying that he did not attend a Ukrainian peace summit back in June, but he has decided to go to Russia for this.
 
His spokesperson said that this was simply because there were so many critical world leaders there. He attended the last BRICS summit in South Africa and he would be reaffirming his well-known views on Ukraine and the need for a just peace under the U.N. charter. So a lot of critical optics expected today. 
 
CHURCH: Indeed. And Steven, what came out of the bilateral meeting between Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping and just how strong is that China-Russia relationship? 
 <br>[03:25:04]
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: That's right, Rosemary. You know, Xi Jinping made a point of telling Putin this was their third meeting just this year. And the two men, of course, had met multiple times, dozens of times over the years. So that frequency of their meetings, even after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, really is a testament of the strength of this relationship. 
 
And in recent years, we, of course, have seen bilateral trade soaring and military cooperation increasing between the two countries, really living up to that much touted description of a no limit partnership. Now, of course, China is increasingly being perceived as the more dominant, the bigger brother of this relationship because of the economic cloud and political influence of China under Xi Jinping.
 
But still, Xi could use something from Putin as well, including affordable and steady energy supply, but also Russia's support on a number of important political and ideological issues for China on the global stage. And indeed, we have seen the two governments increasingly in lockstep on many of these policy and messaging fronts in the United Nations, for example, and that is probably going to continue. 
 
But what's interesting is Xi made a note of saying how this relationship is non-alliance, non-confrontational and non-third party targeted, but I think many analysts would back to defer because what's been bonding these two men increasingly, of course, is their shared desire and their willingness to reshape this U.S.-led world order.
 
And that, of course, is why BRICS is increasingly important for both of them as this alternative platform, especially as Xi put it, in times of unprecedented change and chaos. And he said once during their previous meetings that Xi Jinping and Putin themselves, they are on the driver's seat in seeing through these changes and reshape this global balance of power. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH: Steven Jiang and Clare Sebastian, many thanks to you both. I Appreciate it. 
 
Well, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a food safety alert for an E. coli outbreak linked to McDonald's quarter pounders. At least one death has been reported so far and 10 people, including a child, have been hospitalized.
 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration says slivered onions are a likely source of contamination and that onions and patties have been removed from restaurants in 12 states. Nearly 50 illnesses have been reported across 10 of them, with most of the cases originating in Colorado and Nebraska.
 
McDonald's says we are working in close partnership with our suppliers to replenish supply for the quarter pounder in the coming weeks. In the meantime, all other menu items, including other beef products, are unaffected and available. 
 
Still to come, a new dire warning from the United Nations that the war in Gaza may have set the enclave back decades. We're back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: We are following new developments in the Middle East where the Israeli military says it has killed a prominent Hezbollah drone operative in an airstrike in eastern Lebanon. Meantime, air raid sirens went off in central and northern Israel. 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
Hezbollah says it was targeting a military base north of Tel Aviv. The sirens delayed the U.S. Secretary of State's departure to Saudi Arabia. Anthony Blinken is in the Middle East to urge Israeli officials to quote "capitalize on the recent death of Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar to end the war in Gaza and bring the remaining hostages home." This comes amid a dire warning from the UN on Gaza. A new report claims the war has erased 69 years of progress in the enclave. The report looked at key metrics such as life expectancy, education, income and standard of living. They are all expected to drop to a level estimated for 1955. 
 
Our next guest is the author of "Rise and Kill First, The Secret History of Israel's Targeted Assassinations." Ronen Bergman is also a staff writer at the "New York Times Magazine" and comes to us from Tel Aviv. Thank you so much for joining us. 
 
RONEN BERGMAN, STAFF WRITER, "NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE": Thank you for being here.
 
CHURCH: So in his high stakes meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged Israel to capitalize on Yahya Sinwar's recent killing by ending the war in Gaza and securing the release of the hostages. How likely is it that Netanyahu will do that? 
 
BERGMAN: Well, I think that as your reporter just indicated, the Secretary of State was not highly confident that Mr. Netanyahu is on the same page with him. Prime Minister Netanyahu has been saying for a very long time that Israel will continue the fight in Gaza until the utmost of the superior victory, but did not define what's the characterization, what are the characterizations of this victory. And it's not clear what exactly are the orders that the Israeli government is giving to the Israeli military who is contracting the fighting. 
 
And it's not just me who says this, but it's Israeli high-rank defense officials who believe that the war -- that at least most of the goals of the war were achieved long ago. 
 
nd of course, after the killing of the leader of Hamas in Gaza and, say, in the world, Yahya Sinwar, just last week, the difficulty is that the IDF, Israeli Defense Forces, believe that this war cannot be, cannot end and cannot be won without the closing leg of a political settlement without discussing the day after, who will be a viable alternative to Hamas?
 
What can be, what sort of a regime, what sort of government, some kind of a new page that will be an alternative, not just for the Israeli population on the border, and of course to guarantee their safety, that something like October 7th will not happen again, but also for the Palestinians. 
 
Mr. Netanyahu has other considerations that are superior to these, he is afraid to the integrity of his coalition, and he's afraid that if he will call the Palestinian Authority to help, which are basically the only alternative to Hamas, then the right, ultra-right-wingers in his coalition will disassemble that, and he puts that as the first, maybe the only priority. 
 
CHURCH: And that's the thing, I mean what is Prime Minister Netanyahu's endgame here? Because clearly the United States would like to see the situation of a two-state solution once this war ends, but that's not something that Netanyahu and his government is interested in at all, is it? 
 
BERGMAN: On the contrary, while at the beginning of the war, shortly after the beginning of the Israeli maneuver, the invasion into Gaza, which was seeing, I think, quite a significant international legitimacy, also domestic legitimacy in Israel. 
 <br>[03:35:10]
 
Mr. Netanyahu said we are not into staying in Gaza whatsoever. This is a military maneuver that is aimed to dismantle Hamas' military capabilities, and that's it.
 
Now, he has ordered the military under strong, strong objection from the military to start preparation for continuous long military rule of Gaza, which means that the military will need to take upon its own responsibility, not just dismantling Hamas and fighting Hamas, difficult as it is, but also taking care of all the civilian issues of millions of people now refugees, many of them without homes, and they need to take care of them. 
 
And also, the calls from the ultra nationalist extreme part of this coalition to rebuild the settlements in the Gaza Strip, those that were dismantled by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in 2005, that at the beginning we see like some kind of messianic very, or a fraction of minority in Israel are now getting more and more backwind from members of the parliament, not just of the ultra-right, but also from the right-wing Likud party, Netanyahu's party. And just two days ago, there was a massive demonstration for reestablishment and annexing the Gaza Strip. 
 
CHURCH: Ronen Bergman, thank you so much for joining us. I appreciate it. 
 
BERGMAN: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: A.I.-generated deep fakes are coming to a screen near you after the break. How increasingly convincing digital fakes are creating chaos for American voters. We'll have a story on that. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: With the election 13 days away, concern about voter miss and disinformation is at fever pitch. And while political deception is nothing new, the emergence of artificial intelligence is making it more difficult to tell what's real from what's fake.
 
CNN's Hadas Gold has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN MEDIA CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Quick, is this actually Chris Rock? Amy Schumer? Rosario Dawson? Not all of these celebrities are who they seem to be. 
 
JONATHAN SCOTT, CANADIAN TV PERSONALITY: Because this election Bad actors are going to use A.I. to trick you--  
 
LAURA DERN, ACTRESS: -- into not voting. 
 
GOLD (voice-over): With just two weeks left until the election, fears are growing over the influence of artificially generated content. 
 
SCOTT: We hardly know what they're going to do. 
 
AMY SCHUMER, COMEDIAN AND ACTRESS: They'll use fake phone calls. 
 
CHRIS ROCK, COMEDIAN AND ACTOR: Videos or messages to try to change when, how, or where you vote. 
 <br>[03:40:01]
 
GOLD (voice-over): Warnings like this from the nonpartisan anti- corruption group RepresentUs trying to urge voters to think twice. 
 
JOSHUA GRAHAM LYN, CEO, REPRESENTUS: The risk here is if they trick enough people in say one target district in one swing state in a state that really matters to this election, they could throw the whole election. 
 
GOLD (voice-over): Deep fakes have been keeping campaigns and government officials on their toes, now having to fight a new front in the battle against disinformation. 
 
Like this fake robo callback in January, with a voice resembling President Joe Biden urging voters not to go to the polls during the New Hampshire primary. 
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT (A.I. Generated Fake): Voting this Tuesday only enables the Republicans in their quest to elect Donald Trump again. Your vote makes a difference in November, not this Tuesday. 
 
GOLD (voice-over): The FCC fined the political consultant behind the fake call $6 million. He is facing 26 criminal charges in New Hampshire. He's pleaded not guilty. But not all deep fakes are as targeted. Manipulated images are all over the internet. Some showing celebrity endorsements that aren't always true. 
 
Like these images, former President Donald Trump shared on Truth Social, making it appear he has the support of pop superstar Taylor Swift despite a clear marking on one photo labeling it as satire. Swift actually endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris in an Instagram post after the Democratic National Convention. 
 
GOLD: Many experts aren't as concerned about fake celebrity endorsements. They're worried that manipulated content online will confuse voters or, in some way, keep them from going to their polling stations. And it's incredibly easy to make manipulated images.
 
I'm going to use a program called Adobe Access to manipulate a real photo into showing something that didn't actually happen. So I'll take this photo. I'm going to say, show me a car crash. And here we go, what could be taken, several options of what could be a real car crash between two vehicles. 
 
Now experts are worried that somebody might take an image like this and share it online and say something along the lines of, the polling station is closed because of this severe car crash that took place. And that might not actually be true, but that could keep people home. 
 
GOLD (voice-over): So this election, be aware and always double check what you see online with your state's election officials. 
 
Hadas Gold, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Superstar LeBron James and his son Bronny made basketball history by becoming the first father-son duo to play together in a regular season NBA game. The Lakers hosted the Minnesota Timberwolves in Los Angeles on Tuesday, which was the league's opening night. 39- year-old LeBron appeared in the starting lineup as expected. 20-year- old Bronny made his debut in the second quarter. The final score: Lakers 110, Timberwolves 103. 
 
And thanks so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Have yourselves a wonderful day. "Marketplace Europe" is coming up next. Then, "CNN Newsroom" continues with Max Foster and Christina Macfarlane at the top of the hour.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(MARKETPLACE EUROPE)