Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Trump Inherits A Change In World Order; Dutch, Israeli Officials Condemn Attacks As Anti-Semitic; Hostage Families Urge Trump And Biden To Secure Their Release; Trump Names Susie Wiles As White House Chief Of Staff; Exit Polls: 55 Percent Men Voted Trump, 43 percent Voted Harris; Trump Wins majority Of White Women Voters For Third Straight Time; Racist Texts Referencing Slavery Raise Alarms In 20 States; Aired 12-1p ET

Aired November 08, 2024 - 12:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:28]
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN ANCHOR: It's one of the most important positions in Washington, and for the first time, there will be a woman at the helm.
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN ANCHOR: ONE WORLD starts right now. The Woman of the Hour. Who is Susie Wiles? And why has Trump made her his Chief of Staff?
 
ASHER: And while some positions open up to women, the glass ceiling is still firmly intact. We'll take a closer look at how voters viewed Kamala 
 
 Harris.
 
GOLODRYGA: And later, who's up to win the biggest awards in music? Grammy nominations have just been announced.
 
ASHER: All right. Coming to you live from New York, I'm Zain Asher.
 
GOLODRYGA: And I'm Bianna Golodryga. You are watching ONE WORLD.
 
Well, for the moment, the center of the U.S. political world isn't in Washington., it is in the resort of Palm Beach, Florida.
 
Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago home is buzzing with activity as Republican politicians and ideologues are hoping to find key roles within his new 
 
 administration.
 
ASHER: All right. Step one for Donald Trump was naming a chief of staff who will basically run the White House. He did that on Thursday, tapping this 
 
 lady here, Susan Wiles, a political operative who has been close to him for years and who's actually a co-chair as well of his 2024 campaign.
 
CNN sources say that Wiles wants control over who has access to Trump once he is back in the Oval Office, according to sources, while does not want a 
 
 clown car of people coming into the White House.
 
GOLODRYGA: And Russia's president is among those congratulating President- Elect Donald Trump on his election victory. During a forum in Sochi, Vladimir Putin said that he is ready for dialogue with Trump.
 
Putin also said he's willing to talk about Trump's earlier comments about ending Russia's war in Ukraine in, quote, 24 hours. Putin says those 
 
 comments deserve attention.
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, one question that's on the mind of many European leaders is what to do if Donald Trump slashes U.S. support for Ukraine.
 
ASHER: In the Hungarian capital Budapest, E.U. leaders have been talking about the future of Ukraine and the security of Europe at large. That means 
 
 planning how to respond if American dollars dry up. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says the E.U. is up to the task.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, GERMAN CHANCELLOR (through translator): We will continue to work well with the future American president, and the question of how this 
 
 can be achieved has been the subject of our discussions. One thing is quite clear. We must do what is necessary for our security together as the 
 
 European Union, as Europeans.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: When Donald Trump does take office, Europe's leadership, for the most part, will be different from his first term.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. Nic Robertson takes a look at how that might affect future relations between the U.S. and the European Union.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Raging wars in Ukraine and the Mideast, an informal alliance of enemies Russia, 
 
 China, Iran, and North Korea, are the obvious changes in world order President-elect Donald Trump inherits.
 
Less talked about since he left office in 2021, the political weakening of some of his former putative allies, particularly in Europe.
 
Elections in France undermined President Emmanuel Macron standing. Germany's Chancellor Olaf Scholz has a tanking economy and a collapsing 
 
 governing coalition. Both of these E.U. power houses losing political ground to right wing populists. They're on the rise across Europe.
 
In Italy, a right-wing populist Giorgia Meloni won elections, is a fan of Trump, but Trump also lost supporters.
 
BORIS JOHNSON, FORMER PRIME MINISTER OF THE UNITED KINGDOM: Thank you all very much.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): U.K. PM, Boris Johnson gone from power. The Conservative Party trounced in recent elections by trend bucking, Keir 
 
 Starmer, left leaning Labour Party where all these changes get tested first, likely over Trump's campaign promise to end Russia's war in Ukraine 
 
 in a day.
 
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'll have that done in 24 hours.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): And threats to pull America's Ukraine funding. As almost 50 European leaders gathered in Budapest just two days after the 
 
 U.S. elections, Trump's victory and Ukraine a top topic.
 
Trump ally and meeting host Hungarian PM, Victor Orban, in close conversation with Macron and Starmer. Starmer then with Macron, just the 
 
 tip of the iceberg of debate on this frosty issue. And Starmer later with Ukraine's Zelenskyy.
 <br>[12:05:14]
 
KEIR STARMER, PRIME MINISTER OF THE UNITED KINGDOM: But as you know, our support from Ukraine is unwavering.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): The unspoken question in Budapest, can Europe go it alone?
 
ALEXANDER DE CROO, BELGIAN PRIME MINISTER: We should be very clear on this, European security is not something that we outsource to someone else, for 
 
 example, to the United States.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Macron said the same thing, but already clear the opening pitch to Trump, we need you.
 
CROO: We are open to discuss with the United States on how we can work better together.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): And at the sharp end of Europe sell, NATO's new chief, another change for Trump.
 
MARK RUTTE, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: I look forward to sit down with Donald Trump to discuss how we can face the threats collectively.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): It's a bold gambit, but read through it, Europe isn't ready to stand up to Putin alone.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON: You know, and I think some of the messages that President-elect Donald Trump will hear over the coming months as he engages, you know, 
 
 behind the scenes and his teams engage behind the scenes with European diplomats, it's going to be a narrative that, look, President Trump when he 
 
 was president was good for NATO because he got the NATO nations to up their spend. And I think the message will be we can do more of that and it's good 
 
 to have his support in doing that. 
 
But it will also be a message about the hard finances of it all because, of course, that is what Donald Trump focuses on, the finances of it all. And 
 
 they'll point out that if 190 million -- or rather $190 billion of E.U. and U.K. money that's going to Ukraine, almost $30 billion of that is actually 
 
 being spent on U.S. weapons to go to Ukraine. So there's a benefit in there for the United States.
 
That's not clear that that message is going to sell well or hit -- or hit the mark and the absolutely expect and that's their concern that Trump's 
 
 going to push back and say look, OK, this is your problem and you're going to have to deal with it and dip in your own pockets.
 
ASHER: All right. Nic Robertson, live for us, thank you.
 
Dutch and Israeli leaders are condemning violent anti-Semitic attacks on Israelis in Amsterdam. Israel says that hundreds of football fans were 
 
 essentially ambushed and assaulted on Thursday night, and at least 10 Israelis were injured. The violence broke out after a match between the 
 
 Dutch side and Maccabi Tel Aviv.
 
GOLODRYGA: Amsterdam's mayor said that it was an extraordinarily dark moment in the city's history. The Dutch prime minister is echoing her 
 
 sentiments.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DICK SCHOOF, DUTCH PRIME MINISTER: I'm ashamed that this happened in the Netherlands and it's a terrible anti-Semitic attack and we will not 
 
 tolerate and we will prosecute perpetrators. And I'm deeply ashamed that it could happen in the Netherlands in 2024.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: CNN's Melissa Bell is in Amsterdam for us.
 
Melissa, the Amsterdam mayor, in addition to calling it a dark night, went on to say, I understand why people are reminded of the pogroms and noting 
 
 the solemn anniversary here, the 85th anniversary marking Kristallnacht, the night of broken glass will actually fall on this weekend.
 
I have to say when I was watching some of these videos last night, one of the questions many people had is, where were the police? Where were the 
 
 authorities? How was this allowed to go on for as long as it did?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It's a good question and it'll be the subject of an investigation that's now been launched by 
 
 Dutch authorities. But just to walk you through the series of events that have taken place and so shaken the Dutch capital over the last couple of 
 
 days. It was on Wednesday that we saw some of the first scenes emerging of the Israeli Maccabi Tel Aviv fans arriving here in Amsterdam. Some images 
 
 showed them tearing down a Palestinian flag, others chanting F the Arabs.
 
By the next day, Dutch police realized that the tension around this match was likely to continue growing. Extra police were laid on to try and ensure 
 
 the safety of the Israeli fans over the course of the next few hours.
 
What we understand is that as the match took place between these two sides and initially ended, the protesters hadn't turned up yet. Initially, it was 
 
 fairly peaceful. It was later in the night that what Dutch authorities describe as hit and run attacks, people, Israeli supporters, were sought 
 
 out on the streets of Amsterdam, hunted down, and beaten up in those extraordinarily violent scenes that you mentioned.
 
And there were a number of these attacks. It is 63 arrests that have now been made by Dutch authorities. And a lot of emphasis that will now be 
 
 placed on prosecuting these individuals, with Israeli authorities vowing to get involved to ensure that the Dutch police can get to the bottom of who 
 
 was responsible and how this unfolded.
 <br>[12:10:03]
 
You mentioned a moment ago the words of the mayor of Amsterdam, clearly expressing the shock that's been expressed over the course of the day by so 
 
 many Dutch officials. She also spoke to the fact that here in Europe, the tensions have been rising over the course of the last year since the start 
 
 of the war in Gaza.
 
There are very strong feelings, and not just within Europe's Muslim communities, but much more broadly with many pro-Palestine protests. She 
 
 referred to that, but she said, this was not a pro-Palestine protest. This was not about politics. This was not about what's happening in the Middle 
 
 East. This was a crime and will be prosecuted as such.
 
But a great deal of shock that these scenes could have unfolded in a city that really is very most famous for being one of the most open and tolerant 
 
 in Europe. Bianna and Zain.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, a dark night indeed. Melissa Bell, thank you so much.
 
ASHER: All right. Well, the Fed certainly does have some good news for borrowers here in the US. The tension remains between the man leading the 
 
 Federal Reserve and the president-elect. We'll look at how that might play out when Donald Trump takes office.
 
GOLODRYGA: Plus, authorities in several states are investigating racist text messages that were sent to black Americans after the election, 
 
 including one that refers to, quote, picking cotton. 
 
ASHER: Also, Israeli protesters takes to the streets calling for a hostage release deal after the prime minister fires the defense minister. We'll 
 
 talk to an Israeli activist when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the second time in two months. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. The latest cut on Thursday by a quarter of a point comes as the Fed gears up for a new Trump administration.
 
ASHER: Yes. The first time around, relations between the Federal Reserve chair and Donald Trump were rather tense. Trump appointed Jerome Powell, 
 
 but they later clashed over rate policy. Listen to how Powell answers a reporter's question here.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If he asked you to leave, would you go?
 
JEROME POWELL, CHAIR OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE OF THE UNITED STATES: No. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: No. Well, a senior adviser -- 
 
ASHER: That simple.
 
GOLODRYGA: -- to the president-elect says Trump is likely to allow Powell to finish his term, which runs through May 2026.
 
ASHER: All right. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is one of the first leaders of the world to congratulate Donald Trump, calling his win a 
 
 huge victory and certainly a comeback as well.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. And while many in Israel celebrate, there are still questions over what this means for the war in Gaza. In his first term, 
 
 Trump made several major moves benefiting Israel, like relocating the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem. On the campaign trail, he has urged Israel to finish 
 
 this war quickly.
 <br>[12:15:10]
 
ASHER: This week, Netanyahu fired his defense minister, Yoav Gallant, after months of clashes over the war and over politics as well.
 
Gallant says that one reason for his dismissal was a dispute over the abandonment of hostages. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Protests erupted in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem after Gallant's firing. One freed hostage says her heart is with those still being held in 
 
 Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIA SCHEM, FREED ISRAELI HOSTAGE: Look at me. I am proof they can still be saved. In this moment, 60 meters underground, with no air, no light, no 
 
 hope, my friends are still being held by monsters.
 
My heart is still with them, captive in Gaza. I stand here and demand that you bring them all home now. Just be human. Find some morality, find some 
 
 courage, and speak up. Help us bring them home.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Let's bring in Zohar Avigdori. He is an activist with the Hostages and Missing Families Forum. He joins us now live from Tel Aviv, 
 
 Israel.
 
Zohar, we should note that tomorrow marks 400 days since October 7th, since those hostages were taken into Gaza. One hundred and one remain held there. 
 
 I know you had family members who were there as well. You lost loved ones on October 7th. Thankfully, your family has been freed, but that hasn't 
 
 stopped you from pursuing the secure release of all of the rest.
 
And I'm wondering your reaction to the firing of Yoav Gallant. He has been one of the only members of Netanyahu's government as of late, the last few 
 
 months, especially, publicly and adamantly claiming that Gaza, the situation there, now has allowed for a cease-fire and hostage deal, that 
 
 the lives of the hostages were a top priority and they needed to be released.
 
I spoke with a family member of a hostage who currently remains in Gaza following the firing. And he said to me, I'm very worried more than ever. 
 
 Gallant always kept the voice of the hostages the first priority in the government. I don't know what will be the next step.
 
What is your reaction to the news of Gallant's firing?
 
ZOHAR AVIGDORI, ACTIVIST, HOSTAGES AND MISSING FAMILIES FORUM: Well, it is very saddening. We've seen how Yoav Gallant, not only has been very 
 
 faithful to the families of the hostages and to the efforts to return them safely, but also has shifted his mind.
 
I can say from personal experience that at the beginning of the war, there was less attention paid on the hostages issue and more on fighting Hamas 
 
 making it impossible for Hamas to attack Israel once more, but Yoav Gallant as the operation and the efforts, continued -- saw greater importance in 
 
 bringing the hostages back.
 
We are obviously hoping and demanding for the incoming Minister of Defense, Israel Katz, to show the same commitment and the same determination to 
 
 understand that this is the most urgent matter at hand.
 
ASHER: Zohar, you said that the release of hostages should be more important than any other war goals. Now that there is a brand-new White 
 
 House administration here in the U.S. with Donald Trump coming back in January, do you think that the release of hostages in Israel that are being 
 
 trapped in Gaza right now is more likely or less likely with the Trump administration? 
 
AVIGDORI: Well, I think the support in Israel is bipartisan and has been so for so many years, especially during times of war. And I don't think that 
 
 we should wait until the inauguration in January to release people already being held for 400 days in awful, awful conditions of captivity. 
 
These people are suffering. We've just recently heard a report from our doctors division in the forum of the hostages' family saying how awful 
 
 their situation must be right now.
 
And if we're moving ahead and waiting until the Trump administration to step in, we're likely to even put their lives more at risk. So I think 
 
 there is still time for the current administration to put all its effort in into bringing them back as soon as possible.
 
GOLODRYGA: We know that of the 101 hostages currently in Gaza, seven are also American citizens. And last week or earlier this week, following the 
 
 news of Donald Trump's win in the U.S. election, the family members of those seven Americans wrote a letter to Donald Trump and President Biden 
 
 asking for a bipartisan effort between the two of them now, not waiting, as you noted, until January, when a new administration is inaugurated, to do 
 
 everything they can to bring a ceasefire hostage deal to fruition.
 <br>[12:20:12]
 
Can you, using our platform here, share with us your words, your message for both the Biden administration and the incoming Trump administration on 
 
 this issue?
 
AVIGDORI: Well, if I was to very humbly speak to the president-elect or President Biden, I would say that both of you have said repeatedly that 
 
 regardless who votes for you, you are presidents to all Americans.
 
And there are hundreds of millions of American citizens under your ruling, but seven of them are now in a very, very dire straits and are in 
 
 desperate, desperate need of your help. And you are the ones that hold the power to make that happen.
 
Not only, by the way, through -- we thought -- we hear a lot about the pressure on Israel, but there is also pressure to make on Qatar as well. 
 
 We've just recently today heard that the U.S. administration has put enough pressure on Qatar to say to Hamas that they are already a persona non grata 
 
 in Qatar.
 
And I think that's an amazing achievement that only goes to show how much influence and impact America has in bringing this crisis to end -- to end.
 
And I can't but just push and hope and dream and pray for every person in the administration to do so and to put them the best of their efforts to 
 
 make that happen quickly.
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Well, we appreciate your time, Zohar, to join us on this very important issue we continue to cover. We appreciate it. Thank 
 
 you.
 
AVIGDORI: Thank you for having me.
 
ASHER: All right. Still to come here, Latinos embrace Donald Trump and ballot box despite his anti-immigrant rhetoric. We'll look at why they 
 
 supported the president-elect when we come back.
 
GOLODRYGA: Then in the U.S., what became famously known as the highest, hardest glass ceiling to crack? Well, it remains firmly intact. Ahead, 
 
 we'll discuss the race for the White House and the role women played in the outcome.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:25]
 
GOLODRYGA: Welcome back to ONE WORLD. I'm Bianna Golodryga.
 
ASHER: And I'm Zain Asher.
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, returning now to our top story, Donald Trump in transition mode, preparing his return to the White House.
 
ASHER: Yes. On Thursday, Donald Trump named his campaign manager, Susie Wiles, as his chief of staff. So she's going to be the first woman in 
 
 history to hold that powerful position. 
 
CNN's Alayna Treene has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Well, I think it shouldn't come as a total surprise that she was the first person that he selected for a major role in 
 
 his upcoming administration.
 
First of all, remember, Susie Wiles has been incredibly loyal to Donald Trump. As we have discussed, he values loyalty really above all else.
 
But I remind you that after he left the White House back in 2021, particularly after January 6, a lot of people who were close to the former 
 
 president in his orbit really tried to distance themselves from him. Susie Wiles did not. She remained by his side and has remained very loyal since. 
 
 So that's one thing -- one thing to keep in mind.
 
The other thing about this as well is that she is very well respected within Donald Trump's team. And that's very hard to do for someone who has 
 
 been in a top leadership role and really in power for several years now.
 
People beneath her really like her. They see she's disciplined. They like the fact that she's not really someone who's always on camera or trying to 
 
 get media attention for herself. She likes to hang back. That's another thing that they cited.
 
But one thing that's very interesting to your question about how we should think about how she'll operate. I mean, so we had great reporting from our 
 
 colleague, Steve Contorno, who said essentially that, you know, one of the key conditions for her taking this job was that she did not want the clown 
 
 car going to the White House and said that Donald Trump agreed. And that's really kind of been Susie's motto this entire time which is that she wants 
 
 to control the chaos. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Exit polls showed Latino men turned out in a big way for Donald Trump on election day, outpacing votes for Harris in the demographic by a 
 
 double-digit margin.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, that is despite Trump's anti-immigrant rhetoric and campaign promises on mass deportation.
 
CNN's Ed Lavandera spoke with Latino voters in Arizona about why they support the president-elect.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In 2016, this happened at a Donald Trump rally in Arizona.
 
TRUMP: Look at that sign. "Latinos Support Trump." I love you. I love you.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): Next thing Betty Rivas knew, she was on stage with the future president.
 
TRUMP: I love her. I've fallen in love. Melania, I've fallen in love with her.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): Eight years later, Rivas remains fully enamored with the president-elect.
 
Betty Rivas told us she felt a connection with Trump on that stage when they looked into each other's eyes. Betty and her husband, Jorge, own 
 
 Sammy's Mexican Grill near Tucson.
 
In this temple to Trump, they serve tacos and enchiladas and the popular MAGA Burger.
 
LAVANDERA: If someone were to come up to you and say, you're a Latino immigrant, how can you support Donald Trump?
 
JORGE RIVAS, OWNER, SAMMY'S MEXICAN GRILL: I will tell him that the man loves this country.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): He says Trump speaks about the things he cares about, faith, family, and the economy.
 
J. RIVAS: I know he's not perfect. I know he's not like the pope.
 
We believe in, you know, teaching our kids about God, our Christian values, family values. And the Democratic Party is embracing all the woke, left-
 
 leaning ideas that it doesn't go with our values.
 
LAVANDERA: I think there's going to be a lot of people who have a hard time hearing you say, I like Trump because of family values.
 
J. RIVAS: I don't go by his lifestyle. I don't go by what he has done.
 
LAVANDERA: Do you think it's the Democrats pushing Latinos to Trump? Or is it Trump bringing in Latinos?
 
J. RIVAS: I think more Democrats are pushing Latinos to Trump.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): Tony Arias and Idelfonso Armenta are the host of a radio show called "Los Chavorrucos," which loosely translates to "Young 
 
 Geezers," on Campesina radio network, which airs in five states.
 
They take dozens of calls a day on a radio station founded by the iconic labor organizer Cesar Chavez. And they've sensed Trump winning over Latinos 
 
 in the last few years.
 
Democrats did not impress people, said the caller. Donald Trump spoke well and stole their hearts.
 
Another caller said, I fought with my oldest son. He told me Trump is better than Kamala. I said I cannot accept that.
 
LAVANDERA: Are you seeing that it's a generational divide?
 
TONY ARIAS, RADIO HOST: I see a lot of young people voting for Trump, because they -- they're thinking about the economy.
 <br>[12:30:01]
 
RAQUEL TERAN, FORMER DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATOR: We need to do a better job of engaging our communities.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): Raquel Teran is a former democratic legislator in Arizona. She recently ran for Congress and spent months knocking on doors, 
 
 trying to turn out Latino voters.
 
TERAN: What they're hearing from Trump is that there's going to be a better economy under his administration.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): The night after Donald Trump won reelection, Jorge Rivas told us about their path to becoming U.S. citizens.
 
He was born in El Salvador, granted asylum in the U.S. at age 17.
 
Betty immigrated from Mexico. Now, she thinks many migrants are lying and trying to take advantage of the asylum process. They want the immigration 
 
 crisis fixed.
 
J. RIVAS: If they let in hundreds or thousands of people who already have criminal records, if deporting them creates a mass deportation, I'm all for 
 
 it.
 
LAVANDERA: But what if, rounded up in all of that, are people who work on a farm? They're doing the jobs that Americans don't want to do. Does that -- 
 
 does that worry you?
 
J. RIVAS: That wouldn't be fair. Of course, you know, they need to make sure that they don't throw away, they don't kick out, they don't deport 
 
 people that are -- that are family-oriented.
 
LAVANDERA: The question that persists is why Donald Trump's history of offensive comments hasn't fully turned off Latino voters.
 
Some pointed out to us that younger Latino voters, in particular, don't know much about Trump, that they simply see him as a celebrity businessman.
 
And others also pointed out that many Latino immigrants come from countries with truly dangerous and evil political leaders, and they view Trump as 
 
 much more harmless.
 
Ed Lavandera, CNN, Phoenix.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, Donald Trump doesn't just have a history of making racist comments, but he has a history of making sexist ones as well.
 
ASHER: And last week of the campaign alone, Donald Trump and his supporters called his female opponents evil, sick, crazy, trash, and likened Kamala 
 
 Harris to a prostitute.
 
Still, that didn't stop tens of millions of women, including a majority of white women, from casting their ballots in favor of a man found liable for 
 
 sexual assault.
 
GOLODRYGA: Reaching the nation's highest office is a battle American women have been fighting for than 150 years. It began with Victoria Woodhull, the 
 
 first woman to run for president in 1872. Well, one century later, New York Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm became the first black woman to seek the 
 
 Oval Office, but she was careful not to make gender or race a part of her presidential bid.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHIRLEY CHISHOLM, FORMER UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE: I am not the candidate of black America, although I am black and proud.
 
I am not the candidate of the women's movement of this country, although I am a woman, and I'm equally proud of that. I am not the candidate of any 
 
 political bursaries or fat cats or special interests.
 
I stand here now without endorsements from many big-name politicians or celebrities or any other kind of prop, I do not intend to offer to you the 
 
 tired and glib cliches which for too long have been a septic part of our political life, I am the candidate of the people of America.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Other countries have elected women leaders for decades, including the U.K., India, Pakistan, Liberia, South Korea, and most recently, Mexico.
 
Time now for the exchange and a look at women and the U.S. presidency. Joining us live now to discuss this is Bluestack Strategies founder and 
 
 principal Maura Gillespie and CNN contributor and historian Leah Wright Rigueur. Thank you both for being here.
 
Maura, let me start with you, because I do want to talk about this issue of abortion rights in the U.S. and why that seemed to be much more popular 
 
 than Kamala Harris herself.
 
When you look at where abortion rights was actually on the ballot, the 10 states, eight out of those 10 states, the majority of people voted in favor 
 
 of abortion rights.
 
But then at the same time, they voted for the man who was responsible for trying to take those rights away. How do you explain that to people?
 
MAURA GILLESPIE, FOUNDER AND PRINCIPAL, BLUESTACK STRATEGIES: So I think that there is a large swath of the American public, especially women who 
 
 saw that they had the opportunity to enshrine abortion rights by their state with the ballot measures. They were able to do that, but then also 
 
 look at what is going to be best for their economic and safety and security issues.
 
I think that as a whole, we've talked about this on this program, but in others, you know, about women not being a monolith about one single issue. 
 
 And when it comes to the economic strife that has been felt across this country, that played into people's hands, I think as much as anything.
 
And the conversation about safety and security, especially in states like Arizona and Nevada, you know, I think that that was also with border 
 
 protection and border security. That played a part in their vote for Republicans and Donald Trump specifically.
 <br>[12:35:59]
 
GOLODRYGA: Leah, one thing, one of the few things that I would say that democratic pollsters got right in this election cycle is that turnout was 
 
 going to be key. And it looked like turnout was lower, ultimately, than it was four years ago.
 
And while the majority of women did vote for Kamala Harris, 53 percent to Trump's 46 percent, Biden won 55 percent of women's votes, 43 percent went 
 
 to Trump. So in trying to parse through these numbers, and obviously women don't vote as a monolith, I'm wondering what questions you're asking about 
 
 why we saw a decrease in the number of women voting for a female candidate and why you think voter enthusiasm and turnout wasn't as high as it was 
 
 four years ago.
 
LEAH WRIGHT RIGUEUR, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: So I think, you know, one thing to start with is that actually when you disaggregate across racial lines, the 
 
 numbers look radically different.
 
Women of color overwhelmingly went for Kamala Harris. White women split -- effectively evenly split their vote between Trump and Kamala Harris. And I 
 
 don't think we should be surprised about that, because that's actually a trend that has held up for the last several presidential elections.
 
But I think when we think about the larger trends about turnout and turnout being slightly down as compared to 2020, we have to actually revisit a 
 
 conversation that we've been having for essentially the last year, which is that voters are tired. They were tired of their choices. They felt in a lot 
 
 of ways that they were having a rehash of the 2020 election that they voters were very clear that they wanted some kind of new inspiration.
 
And this is actually why we saw a lot of momentum in the initial weeks after Kamala Harris announced her campaign and then got the democratic 
 
 nominee -- nomination to be president of the United States.
 
There were moments where people felt like she had the energy perhaps to be seen as anti-establishment, to be outside of the Democratic Party, because 
 
 voters were very clear that they did not want Trump versus Biden again.
 
And so I think one of the things that we can point to is that even in an election where it feels like there's been this overwhelming shift to the 
 
 right, that Donald Trump may look at this and say, I have a mandate from the American people to do whatever I want, it's also clear that the 
 
 American people are saying very clearly and very loudly that they want something different, that they do not trust establishment politicians.
 
And I would also look at the policy, the way that the policy ballot initiatives shook out during this election, which is that right-wing 
 
 policies weren't actually very -- didn't do very well on the ballot. And policies that we initially associate with, I think, progressive ideas like 
 
 abortion rights and reproductive rights ended up doing really well. The other thing that ended up really doing well are initiatives that address 
 
 the economy.
 
So, these are things that voters are looking for, in particular, women voters and the larger electorate.
 
ASHER: Maura, let me bring you back in because I'm from the U.K. And one thing that I do find quite interesting is that, you know, the U.K. has had 
 
 three British female prime ministers. Certainly one of them only lasted 49 days. But still, and they have all been conservative. Margaret Thatcher, 
 
 Theresa May, Liz Truss. In fact, you know, just recently, now we have the Conservative Party leader, Kemi Badenoch, who is a black woman, very far to 
 
 the right, but a black woman nonetheless.
 
And I do -- I just -- I want to find out from you, just, you know, give me your take on this, why the glass ceiling in the U.S. is so much harder to 
 
 shatter than in Europe. What are your thoughts on that?
 
GILLESPIE: It's really hard. And I worked on Capitol Hill for over a decade and I found on Capitol Hill that misogyny is still ran rampant. And so I'm 
 
 not going to put it all on that. But it's a big factor here.
 
And I am -- I've told you both that I am very determined that a woman -- I will see a woman president in my lifetime. And I still think that is very 
 
 viable. It's definitely an option.
 
I think that there were a lot of factors that, you know, made it hard for Kamala Harris in how she got into this race, not through a democratic 
 
 process, but essentially because Joe Biden dropped out. And there wasn't a lot to differentiate her from the Biden-Harris administration. She was 
 
 still currently in the administration.
 
And so I think there were a lot of factors that went into that really made it difficult for us to succeed in this election.
 
And again, you know, just because she is a woman doesn't mean that every single woman in America was, you know -- had to vote for her. And I think 
 
 that that was a lot of the language that was being kind of shoved into people's TV screens and their airwaves. And just constantly this idea that 
 
 women would turn out for her in ways that, you know, you assumed. And we learned that that's obviously not the case.
 
And so I think that there needs to be a better, more holistic approach to galvanizing women to see the benefits of having a woman who can multitask 
 
 and lead, you know, the peace through strength. I think that that's something that women can do best.
 
And I am hopeful that we will be there, you know, in the near future, but there are a lot of factors that took this opportunity away from us this 
 
 time around because not everyone wanted to see a Kamala Harris administration just based on not knowing what it would look like, or if it 
 
 would look like the last four years. And I think that's really what it came down to.
 <br>[12:40:13]
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. Leah, that just has the hallmarks of what we heard following 2016 and the failed Hillary Clinton campaign. I mean, remember, 
 
 her campaign motto was, I'm with her.
 
And some of the reflections, looking back on the Harris campaign, was it was a freebie to show Americans that she's a woman and she's a woman of 
 
 color. So they didn't spend much time focusing on that. She was a political candidate who the party said is the best person equipped for the job.
 
This is one of the hardest issues to really poll on, because, let's be honest, very few people will honestly say, I just won't vote for a woman or 
 
 I just won't vote for a woman of color.
 
So if the lessons learned from the Hillary Clinton loss was not to harp too much on the fact that history would be made electing the first female 
 
 president, what are the lessons learned here? Because it seems that, oh, I'm all in favor of a woman, just not that woman doesn't tell us much. 
 
RIGUEUR: Well, actually, I think we can look even more broadly than that. We can look at the candidacy of Nikki Haley during the Republican 
 
 primaries. And so there was a lot going on there.
 
You know, there were a lot of voters, I think, who looked at Nikki Haley and said, I like her. But then there were a lot of voters in the Republican 
 
 primary who said, I don't know that I can vote for a woman. I don't know that I can vote for a Nikki Haley type.
 
And who pivoted, again, it's really hard to kind of tease the sound and pull for this. But there were a lot of people who said, I feel just more 
 
 comfortable with Donald Trump and who would articulate necessarily why they felt more comfortable with Donald Trump despite all of, I think, the kind 
 
 of troubles that he was going through, whether it be his criminal liability troubles, whether it be the kind of things that he was saying off the -- 
 
 off the cuff or the way that he was criticizing people, the arguments that he was getting into.
 
And so a lot -- I think one of the things that we can tease out there is that there are real struggles happening with how we understand women in 
 
 politics.
 
But I think the lesson from this, from the 2024 election cycle shouldn't be that women of color can't be president of the United States or certainly 
 
 that women of color can't be president of the United States, and said it needs to be a much, I think, a much deeper, more nuanced assessment of what 
 
 went wrong.
 
You know, Kamala Harris had almost everything running against her. Donald Trump comes back and, against all odds, is incredibly popular with a 
 
 Republican base. An economy that looks great on paper, but in practice, in people's daily and lived experiences, is really just not translating. And 
 
 we hear this over and over again.
 
And then, of course, there's the blame that people put on Joe Biden, not necessarily for dropping out too late, but for being relatively unpopular 
 
 for a number of different reasons, but especially upfront when it comes to Ukraine and when it comes to Israel and Gaza.
 
So there, here you have somebody like Kamala Harris, who's carrying all of this on her back, in addition, and is essentially running an uphill 
 
 campaign.
 
The question needs to be, what does a successful campaign look like for a woman who is not encumbered by all of the baggage that Hillary Clinton and 
 
 that Kamala Harris had? That's a very different conversation to have, but it's also one that is unconstrained by the very realities of, you know, 
 
 incumbency and a very angry electorate.
 
ASHER: All right. We'll have to leave it there. Maura Gillespie, Leah Wright Rigueur, thank you both so much. Great conversation. We'll be right 
 
 back -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: Thank you.
 
ASHER: -- with more after the short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:19]
 
GOLODRYGA: OK. This is just in to CNN. Tesla CEO, Elon Musk, joined a call with President-elect Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy the 
 
 day after the election. 
 
ASHER: Yes. Zelenskyy says he called Trump to congratulate him on his win. Musk has been a key Trump ally. And there's rampant speculation that he 
 
 could be part of the Trump administration. Musk has also offered his Starlink satellite network to Ukraine to provide connectivity during the 
 
 war with Russia. It has been key to helping Ukraine online -- keeping Ukraine online rather.
 
All right. Authorities in the U.S. are investigating a series of racist text messages sent to black Americans across the country, many of them 
 
 children and college students as well.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. The offensive texts were sent from unrecognized numbers the day after the presidential election in at least 20 states. And they make 
 
 reference to slave catchers and picking cotton. A Canadian phone service company tells CNN that some of the messages were sent through their 
 
 service, but those accounts have been disabled.
 
CNN's Gabe Cohen joins us live now from Washington. So, Gabe, these messages were sent to people across multiple states, really offensive 
 
 messages. Just walk us through what we know so far about where they may have come from.
 
GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, first of all, this is becoming much more widespread than we initially realized. People have now gotten these 
 
 messages in at least two dozen states.
 
And I just spoke with one of the people who received one of those texts who said this morning she received an email with similar racist language. So 
 
 this really is growing in a -- in a frightening way.
 
Those texts are personalized in many cases. And a lot of them have been specifically targeted at black and brown individuals, some of them 
 
 children.
 
There on your screen, you can see one of the texts. That one's sent to us by a woman in New Jersey. It's blurred at the top, but the text actually 
 
 had her name in it and then referenced picking cotton, it referenced slave catchers and plantations. And some of the messages even specifically refer 
 
 to President-Elect Donald Trump.
 
Now, to be clear, the Trump campaign tells us they denounce these messages and they had absolutely nothing to do with them, but so many people, as you 
 
 know, are really on edge in these first days since the election.
 
We heard from the president of the NAACP, who put out a statement saying, these messages represent an alarming increase in vile and abhorrent 
 
 rhetoric from racist groups across the country who now feel emboldened to spread hate and stoke the flames of fear that many of us are feeling after 
 
 Tuesday's election results.
 
Since from now there are these investigations underway all across the country. The FBI is part of them. They sent out a statement saying, they're 
 
 now working with the Justice Department. We know that the FCC is also involved, given that we're talking about text messages and emails. 
 
And it does appear, as you mentioned, that at least some of those messages we now know were sent using a service called TextNow. It's a company that 
 
 allows people to create phone numbers for free. That company says they're aware of it. They believe this was a widespread and coordinated attack. And 
 
 now they're working with industry partners and with law enforcement.
 
They are trying to stop any new accounts from being created so that they can stop these messages from going out, and then ultimately they want to 
 
 help track down whoever is sending them.
 
GOLODRYGA: And when you talk about, Gabe, just the magnitude of those who are impacted here, it's all over the country and not particularly targeting 
 
 one area or region?
 
COHEN: Correct. It's all the way from New York to California. A lot of them are on the East Coast, but it has really spread all over the place. And 
 
 there are a lot of questions about how exactly these people have been identified and why they specifically are being targeted beyond what appears 
 
 to be an issue of race.
 <br>[12:50:05]
 
But we really don't know at this point how those individuals, how -- whoever's sending the messages, got their information and why they're going 
 
 after them in this vile way.
 
ASHER: Really scary. Gabe Cohen, thank you so much. Have a good weekend. Thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Rudy Giuliani's garage is going to get a lot more empty. That is because a federal judge has ordered the former New York mayor to hand over 
 
 his car to two poll workers he defamed after the 2020 election.
 
ASHER: Yes. Before the end of next week, Giuliani has to -- also has to send the two Georgia women watches, furniture, and sports memorabilia as 
 
 well. Giuliani calls $150 million judgment punitive and ridiculous. He faces a contempt of court charge if he does not comply.
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Still to come for us, the best of the best in the world of music, a rundown of the just released Grammy nominations, when we 
 
 come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BELL RINGING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: That sound has not been heard for more than five years. It is the ringing of the bells at the Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. They had been 
 
 silent since, remember that devastating fire back in 2019 that nearly destroyed the 850-year-old church.
 
GOLODRYGA: Now the renovated cathedral is expected to open to the public December 8th. One of the new bells was donated by the organizing committee 
 
 of the Paris Olympic Games. It rang when athletes won or broke records in the summer's Olympics.
 
ASHER: All right. And in case you haven't heard, just minutes ago, the Grammy nominations were announced and it should come as no surprise that 
 
 the most nominated artist of all got the most nominations again this year.
 
GOLODRYGA: Ooh. Who could that be?
 
ASHER: I wonder who that could be.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Beyonce scored 11 Grammy nominations for her first country album, "Cowboy Carter," including the two biggest awards, Album of the Year 
 
 and Record of the Year, amazingly. Beyonce has never won Album of the Year prize.
 
ASHER: How? How is that possible?
 
GOLODRYGA: Hopefully that will come to an end this time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:55:01]
 
ASHER: Taylor Swift also scored nominations for record and album of the year on her way to sixth Grammy nominations for her work on "The Tortured 
 
 Poets Department."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, new artists who burst into the scene this summer like Charlie XCX, Chappell Roan and Sabrina Carpenter, each scored multiple 
 
 nominations as female singers dominated the major categories. The winners will be announced in February.
 
Well, it's been quite a week.
 
ASHER: I was just going to just say, what a week. It's so tough this week.
 
GOLODRYGA: We did it, folks. We made it to Friday. That does it for this hour of ONE WORLD. I'm Bianna Golodryga.
 
ASHER: I'm Zain Asher. Appreciate you watching. "AMANPOUR" is up next with the lovely Bianna, right?
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, I'll be back. OK.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END