Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: National Hurricane Center Releases Information that Hurricane Milton Rapidly Increased in Strength; Family Members of Hostages in Gaza Hold Memorial in Israel for Those Killed or Kidnapped by Hamas One Year Ago. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired October 07, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: That is according to this new analysis for the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. It finds that the Harris plan would cost $3.5 trillion. That is nothing to sneeze at. But look at this, more than twice as much as the Harris plan is what Trump's would cost, $7.5 trillion. 
 
Now, let's look at how they got here. The Trump plan's most expensive line item is extending the 2017 Trump tax cuts. That alone would cost more than $5 trillion. Plus, there's his proposals for no taxes on overtime, no taxes on Social Security, no taxes on tips, 15 percent tax on U.S. manufacturers. Now, Trump says he would pay for all of this by imposing massive tariffs. Of course, there are massive cost to that as well. 
 
The Harris plan calls for a number of things would cost a lot of money, including partially extending those 2017 Trump tax cuts. That would cost $3 trillion. She's also got plans to expand the child tax credit and earned income tax credit, expanding pre-k, childcare, ECE, ACA subsidies, paid family medical leave. So you add all this up, this is very, very expensive.
 
And you've got to remember that this comes at a time when the national that is already spiking, right ,$35 trillion national debt right now. It has doubled in the last 10 years. Quintupled over the last 20 years. And yet neither Harris nor Trump really have a plan to tackle this. John? 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  I remember when the national debt used to be a campaign issue. Not so much anymore, at least for the candidates. Matt Egan, thank you very much. 
 
We've got a lot of new information just coming. A brand new hour of CNN News Central starts right now. 
 
All right, we do have breaking news. Brand new, urgent information just in from the National Hurricane Center. Hurricane Milton has exploded in strength. It is now a major hurricane already, a category three storm. It has got the entire Gulf of Mexico to gain in intensity. It is forecast to take an incredibly dangerous path. You can see it right there, Tampa, St. Pete, Clearwater, Fort Myers, Naples, all within its cone. Seconds ago, the National Hurricane Center issued a special forecast advisory. This is something it rarely does. That in and of itself gives you a sense of how urgent this is. 
 
So let's get right to CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam. Derek, this new information, what are you learning? 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes, John, were facing down a monster. The potential here exists for a second major landfalling hurricane in less than two weeks. People along the west coast of Florida are still cleaning up from Helene. You've got to keep that in mind -- 125 mile per hour sustained winds. The bottom is quite literally dropped popping out from this particular storm, major hurricane Milton. 
 
This is the latest 8:00 a.m. update from the National Hurricane Center, a rare feat from the NHC because they wait usually between 5:00 to 11:00 a.m. to have that update. But because of this explosive growth, which by the way, has increased speeds of over 70 miles per hour in less so in 24 hours, doubling the criteria for rapid intensification. You can see this storm now a cat three, likely will remain a cat four. That is a major hurricane teetering on a cat five as it scrapes the northern Yucatan peninsula where there are hurricane warnings. 
 
But of course, we are focusing our attention on what will be a landfalling major hurricane late Wednesday into the day on Thursday. This is new issued from the National Hurricane Center, and this shading of purple from Pinellas to Sarasota to Lee County, that is a major hurricane wind strength that is in the forecast from approaching major hurricane Hilton -- Milton, I should say. 
 
This is interesting, John. The first initial storm surge forecast, eight to 12 feet for Tampa Bay, that actually exceeds what Helene brought, which was a record storm surge for the area.
 
BERMAN:  And just one more time, Derek, when are you forecasting landfall? Has a landfall update changed? 
 
DAM:  The updated time probably from overnight when people were following this yesterday is a slower arrival time, so late Wednesday into early Thursday morning, that's when we anticipate landfall from this storm. 
 
And again, people don't get caught up in exactly where you think it will land in the cone right now. It's a huge area that includes these major population centers. Derek Van Dam, thank you very much. We're going to be talking about this all morning long. And very shortly we're going to be speaking to the director of the National Hurricane Center as well. Kate?
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Many more updates on that to come, for sure. 
 
And also this -- one year later, the somber anniversary being recognized today in Israel and around the world, one year since the nightmare unfolded, a coordinated terror attack by Hamas, 1,200 people were killed, 250 taken hostage. The Israeli government believes some 100 hostages are still being held in Gaza today. [08:05:03]
 
And, today at the site of the music festival that became one of the biggest targets in the attack, survivors and families -- family members of those killed, all gathered. Images of those taken by Hamas were also projected onto the walls of Jerusalem's old city yesterday, a powerful reminder that they are not forgotten.
 
Joining me right now is Abbey Onn. Abbey is an American citizen who lives in Israel. She's joined us many times. Five of her family were either killed or taken hostage in the Hamas attacks, 80-year-old Carmela Dan, 13-year-old Noya Dan were killed one year ago today. Two young siblings, Erez and his sister Sahar were taken hostage. They were released from captivity in November. Their father Ofer Kalderon, he's still being held in Gaza today. 
 
Abbey, thank you so much for being here once again. Once again, I can't believe we are here one year later talking about this after seeing it all unfold. How are you feeling about today? How is your family doing today?
 
ABBEY ONN, FIVE FAMILY MEMBERS ABDUCTED BY HAMAS:  Thank you for having me. Thank you for asking. We just came back from a one-year memorial which is traditional in Judaism, where the family gathered at the place where Carmela and Noya were buried. And I think a year ago we were in shock, and I think now we're at a point of disbelief that it's a year later and we're still here. 
 
It was cathartic in some ways to gather as a family and to cry and to talk about them. And then on the other hand, there are sirens ringing through the country this morning. We have an attack, attacks coming from all different sides. And Ofer and 100 other hostages are still there. And I think that's part of the disbelief.
 
BOLDUAN:  I'm thinking especially about Erez and Sahar. How are they doing? 
 
ONN:  I just saw them. Physically, they're in one piece, but nothing gets better for them until their father is home. They are fighting just as hard as everyone else in Israel to make sure that the world doesn't forget that there are innocent hostages being held in Gaza. And they feel broken. They feel like a piece of it is missing. And they're just kids. They are my children's age, and they were in their own home the day that they were stolen. They are innocent civilians. And they know where their father is. They know the conditions he's being held in. Sahar saw Ofer before she was released. And he said, don't forget me. I don't want to die here.
 
And that's the message that we keep pushing us forward every day, because we don't want to let him or anyone else die there unnecessarily. And the conditions are getting worse by the minute.
 
BOLDUAN:  You've said that you feel that the hostages have been betrayed and abandoned by the Israeli government, by Benjamin Netanyahu. What brings you, if anything, hope in this moment, especially when, as you note, sirens blaring overhead and attention shifts somewhat to now fighting Hezbollah in Lebanon. And I'm wondering what that shift could be in for Ofer.
 
ONN:  Loo, the thing that has always given me hope is the people of Israel and the Jewish people and our friends and partners globally that are fighting for the hostages. I have so many people in my world that have made sure the people they know say Ofer's name every single day, that are praying for him, that are taking to the street to demand justice. But that hope is connected to fear and to reality, knowing that this last year has been awful for the region. But the number one way to allay everything that's happening, to make sure that a regional escalation doesn't happen is to release the hostages, is to end this part of what's happening. And if they come home, I think it decreases the chance of further escalation.
 
BOLDUAN:  Thousands have gathered in cities around the world to support Israel, called for the return of hostages. Thousands also have gathered in cities around the world in support of the Palestinian people, calling on the United States to stop supplying weapons to Israel, protesting against the Israeli offensive in Gaza that has left so many Palestinians dead. How do you feel? What is your view on these protests? How do they affect your family? 
 
ONN:  Look, I think everyone has the right to say what they want, support the people of Israel, support the people of Palestine. I think supporting terrorist organizations like Hamas and Hezbollah is destructive. If I'm being honest, I think that the people of Israel and the people of Palestine aren't going anywhere. 
 <br>[08:10:04]
 
But the extreme terror organizations need to be pushed aside, and we need to look to the people for leadership. And if that happens, if the people who are experiencing the terror and the death and the horror of the last year have a chance to speak and to lead, we may have a better future. I think any terror organization, if you're rooting for them, you're on the wrong side of the field.
 
BOLDUAN:  President Biden said he was going to be speaking with some of the families of some of the hostages still being held. Has your family heard from the White House? 
 
ONN:  No. When Carmela was killed, we stopped being a family of American hostages. I saw both his message today and the vice president's. And while I deeply appreciate the work that they have done in this last year, I want us not to get to a point of thoughts and prayers. I want us to get to a point of action. And that comes from the United States, and that comes from Israel, and that comes from everyone at the table knowing that Israel is facing attacks on all fronts. We need people to put innocent civilians first instead of politics, instead of money, instead of strategy, whatever it is.
 
These people have been in tunnels for a year. We saw what happened on September 1st when six hostages were executed. That cannot be the future for those that are still alive. And Israel and its people cannot move forward until we bury those that have been killed and we return those that are alive. It's the only way for us. BOLDUAN:  Abbey Onn, thank you so much for coming in. Ofer Kalderon now held for 12 months in Gaza as a hostage. Thank you so much for coming on. 
 
ONN:  Thank you for having me.
 
BOLDUAN:  Our breaking news also continues this morning. We are tracking hurricane Milton rapidly intensifying. Now a category three, but on track to become think category four storm in just hours. We're going to be getting an update from the National Hurricane Center, next.
 
And Kamala Harris kicking off a media blitz, how the campaign hopes all the interviews that she is doing will close the gap with undecided voters.
 
And next hour, the Supreme Court begins a new term. A look at the major cases on the docket. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:16:34]
 
BOLDUAN: The breaking news this morning, Hurricane Milton has just exploded in strength overnight and now a major Category Three hurricane and headed for Florida's west coast.
 
Tampa's mayor is warning residents to make a plan now to leave. And moments ago, the National Hurricane Center issued a rare special forecast advisory about all of this.
 
Joining us right now is Michael Brennan. He is the director of the National Hurricane Center. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
How dangerous is this store, Michael?
 
MICHAEL BRENNAN, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL HURRICANE CENTER: It is extremely dangerous and we've seen Milton explosively strengthen this morning, now a Category Three, expected to be a dangerous hurricane as it approaches Florida on Wednesday.
 
We've now got storm surge and hurricane watches in effect for much of the west coast of Florida. Hurricane watches likely to go into the interior and over to the east coast later today and we are going to see significant life-threatening impacts from surge, wind, and flooding. Rainfall start to play out in Florida, beginning overnight, Tuesday night, Wednesday -- and into Wednesday night and Thursday.
 
BERMAN: This is an unusual track for a hurricane. This is not the type of thing that we see very much.
 
Can you talk about the areas in Florida and I know the entire west coast needs to be alert right now, but the areas that are particularly vulnerable.
 
BRENNAN: Yes. Well, you have -- the west coast of Florida is exceptionally vulnerable to storm surge just from a track that's perpendicular to the coast where you're going to push that Gulf of Mexico water well inland into these bays and harbors, but its places like Tampa Bay, Charlotte Harbor down to Fort Myers. These are places that are very vulnerable to surge.
 
And if you look at the storm surge forecast, we put out this morning, we are expecting somewhere between Anclote River and Englewood, including the Tampa Bay area, somewhere in here, they will see eight to 12 feet of inundation above ground level, significant inundation all along the coast from Chokoloskee up to north of Tampa to Yankeetown, Suwannee River. Everyone here is at risk at least seeing four to five feet of inundation above ground level sets really life- threatening surge, that's why we've got evacuations that are starting in many of these coastal communities this morning.
 
You've got today, Monday; tomorrow, Tuesday to get to a safe place. You're going to want to be in your safe place by sundown tomorrow.
 
BOLDUAN: How fast is this moving? Because speed is also a part of the equation when it comes to the damage from these storms.
 
BRENNAN: Yes, right now, Milton is moving at about eight miles per hour. We are expecting a motion -- a faster motion once it gets up here into the eastern gulf of Mexico, but more closer to 15 miles per hour.
 
So it is going to move pretty quickly across the peninsula, which means it is going to bring those hurricane force winds likely all the way across Florida over to the east coast.
 
We are still expecting to see up to 15 inches of rainfall, especially along in north of the tracks. So the I-4 corridor up towards Jacksonville could see some significant flooding potential, even though the storm is going to be moving pretty quickly.
 
BOLDUAN: Michael Brennan, director of the National Hurricane Center. You've got a lot of work ahead of you. A busy, busy, busy couple of days.
 
Thank you so much for taking the time.
 
BRENNAN: Thanks.
 
BERMAN: All right, we are also talking about the anniversary of the October 7th attacks.
 
With us now is Congressman Josh Gottheimer a Democrat from New Jersey, and Congressman, you've got a resolution that you're submitting to commemorate or mark this day. Why?
 
REP. JOSH GOTTHEIMER (D-NJ): Well, 130 of us in the House are introducing a bipartisan resolution today. It has been a year -- it is hard to believe as you've heard others talking about this morning, since 1,200 including 46 Americans were brutally murdered raped, decapitated, burned alive, babies ripped from wombs. It was just so horrific and I can't believe, here we are, a year later with seven Americans still hostage, and with all these Americans who have been killed with Iran and its proxies continuing to attack not only Israel, but the United States of America.
 <br>[08:20:11]
 
We saw an attack again this morning from Hamas, one of the strongest attacks, heaviest fire of missiles in months aimed at Tel Aviv this morning.
 
BERMAN: Vice President Harris did an interview with "60 Minutes" where she was asked about US policy toward the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Listen to this exchange.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL WHITAKER, "60 MINUTES" CORRESPONDENT: We have a real close ally in Prime Minister Netanyahu.
 
KAMALA HARRIS (D), VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think, with all due respect, the better question is, do we have an important alliance between the American people and the Israeli people? And the answer to that question is, yes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN: So she shifted the question from, do we have an alliance with Netanyahu to we do have an alliance with Israel.
 
What do you make of that?
 
GOTTHEIMER: Well, I think that's exactly right. I mean, people shouldn't forget how important the relationship is between the United States and Israel, especially in our fight against terror, against Hamas, Hezbollah, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the Houthis who continue to attack our interests, right, in the region, who attack Americans, our bases, whether it is the Iranian proxies from Iraq or Syria attacking our servicemembers.
 
So we can't lose sight of Iran, which is the parent company of all this terror, who their closest allies are. They're all our adversaries -- China, Russia, North Korea.
 
And every day they wake up seeking to undermine our democracy and our way of life. The Houthis, their slogan is "Death to America, Death to the Jews." That's literally on their flag. So we can't ever lose sight of the fact that these are enemies seeking to do us harm, which is why my resolution calls not only for Hamas to release the hostages and to surrender, but of course continue to get humanitarian aid into the region, which is critically important to innocent Palestinians being used as human shields, as they have been since October 7th.
 
BERMAN: Congressman, while I have you, if I can ask one political question because House Speaker Mike Johnson went on the Sunday shows and was asked a very direct question, about 2020, but it does relate to 2024. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, ABC NEWS: So like Senator Vance, you cannot say unequivocally that Joe Biden won the 2020 election and Donald Trump lost?
 
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): George, I am the Speaker of the House. I work with the president of the United States all the time. Joe Biden has been the president for four years. There is not a question about this, okay.
 
It has already been done and decided. And this is a gotcha game that's played and I am not playing it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN: He called questions about 2020 a gotcha game. How does that concern you given he is the House Speaker and the House Speaker does play a role in the process of accepting the election results. How concerned are you?
 
GOTTHEIMER: I mean, it is deeply concerning. You know, a group of us, in a bipartisan way introduced in the Problem Solvers Caucus, a unity commitment a couple of weeks ago, which said, we will recognize the outcome of the election.
 
I know that sounds like something we shouldn't have to do, but when you hear answers from a lot of people right now who are already questioning the outcome of the next election, including by the way, the former president who refuse -- still refuses to recognize the outcome of the election that he lost, let alone recognize the election coming up in 2024, and he is already questioning it.
 
So I think in the greatest democracy in the world, the fact that we have people who are not without question recognizing that not only did President Biden win, but who will say that the outcome of the next election when the votes are counted and certified that they will not recognize the outcome of the next election is deeply concerning and one that we've got to keep a very close eye on and we've got to make sure that we keep all -- we keep -- and ensure civility and that we all stand together and stand up and keep things calm in the coming weeks because you can see how this could get out of control if those question the outcome of the election.
 
BERMAN: Congressman Josh Gottheimer, appreciate you being with us morning. Thank you very much -- Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: It is not the 1950s anymore. Kamala Harris dismissing criticism over not having biological children during an appearance on one of the most popular podcasts in the nation, how she responds to Donald Trump, and the Arkansas governor.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:28:30]
 
BERMAN: All right, all signs pointing to this election being incredibly close, historically close. We've been talking about huge structural demographic shifts from who supports whom in the race. We've talked about some that seemed to advantage Donald Trump, but there is at least one that is a serious boon to Vice President Kamala Harris. You see him standing right here, CNN senior data reporter, Harry Enten with this information about college grads.
 
Let's start with White college grads.
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Let's talk. Let's start with White college grads because White college grads had been this group that had been moving further and further to the left. All right, this is the Democratic margin among White college grads.
 
Look Hillary Clinton won them by five points. Then Joe Biden won them by nine. Look at this margin that Kamala Harris is polling up in the polls right now among White college grads, it is an 18-point margin, double the margin that Joe Biden had just four years ago.
 
I went back through the record books. This would be the largest win for a Democratic presidential candidate among White college grads in recorded history. That is all the way back since the early 1950s. You could probably go back even further.
 
But the bottom line is that Kamala Harris, amongst this group is doing ridiculously, ridiculously well and is one of the main reasons that she has been able to counter Donald Trump's rising support among voters without a college degree, it is because she is doing very well among White voters with a college degree.
 
BERMAN: What about all voters, not just White voters?
 
ENTEN: All right, so we looked at White voters with a college degree. How about all voters with a college degree? It is basically the same story. It is historically high support for a Democratic candidate.
 
You see right now, Kamala Harris leads in the polls by 21 points. That's three points higher than Joe Biden did four years ago, that's six points higher than Hillary Clinton did eight years ago.
 
The bottom line is this, Mr. Berman, the electorate is becoming more polarized along education and Democrats, at least among those with a college degree, are the beneficiaries of it and Kamala Harris is doing historically well for a Democrat among voters with a college degree.
 <br>[08:30:28]