Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: United States Begins First Airdrops Of Humanitarian Aid Into Gaza; Growing Concerns Gaza Is On Verge Of Widespread Famine; United Nations: Large Number Of Gunshot Wounds Among The Injured At Gaza Food Aid Site Carnage; Icy conditions Force Large Section Of I-80 To Close; Judge Weighing Whether To Remove Georgia DA From Trump Case; Texas Gov. Abbott Issues Disaster Declaration For 60 Counties; Critics: Bill Targets Immigrants After Nursing Student's Death. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired March 02, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
LAWRENCE WRIGHT, AUTHOR AND EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, "GOD SAVE TEXAS": And by the year 2050, is projected to be the size of California, New York combined.
 
So, it will be decisive in American politics.
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: And "God Save Texas" is streaming now on HBO, which is a part of CNN's parent company. And you can watch the rest of that conversation @amanpour.com. And don't forget, you can find all of our shows online as podcast at cnn.com/podcast on all major platforms.
 
I'm Christiane Amanpour in London. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you again next week.
 <br>[12:00:39]
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN HOST: Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining me. I'm Omar Jimenez, in for Fredricka Whitfield. We got a lot to get to today. We're going to start with "BREAKING NEWS".
 
The U.S. has begun air dropping desperately needed humanitarian aid into Gaza. Three C-130 Hercules cargo planes dropped a total of 66 bundles today.
 
They included mainly food, but no water or medical supplies.
 
Now, President Biden pledged the aid, Friday, at the White House.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Aid flowing to Gaza is nowhere nearly enough. Now, it's nowhere nearly enough.
 
Innocent lives are on the line and children's lives are on the line and we won't stand by and but until they -- until we get more aid and -- 
 
I won't standby, we won't let up, and we're not going to pull out kind of pull out every stop we can to get more assistance in. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: CNN's. Priscilla Alvarez is in Washington, and Paula Hancocks is in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, which is also been air dropping aid into Gaza.
 
But I want to start with you, Priscilla, what more are we learning about this aid drop and how it came together?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, Omar, this is a first for the United States. We already had seen that the United Arab Emirates and Jordan has started to airdrop aid into Gaza. It has become increasingly difficult to get aid into that region and to distribute aid in that region.
 
Now, as you mentioned, there, this was the first and it was 66 total bundles, there were 22 bundles on each aircraft. And this was all food, there was no water or medical supplies. But the idea here is to scale up aid into Gaza, as you heard there from President Biden, he has been pushing for this, he has said that there's not enough aid going into Gaza, and that he is trying to pull out every stop to make it happen. And putting pressure on Israel to help in that effort. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: Consistent Israel facilitate more trucks and more routes to get more and more people the help they need. No excuses.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ: Now, this has been an ongoing effort by U.S. official., And they also are exploring other avenues, including, for example, maritime operations, because there has been criticism by aid agencies that this is not an effective way to get aid to the people who desperately need it in Gaza.
 
So, this is just part of an ongoing effort and only the first in what is probably more drops to come.
 
But again, President Biden calling for a temporary ceasefire, and that is also to get more aid into Gaza, as well as to release hostages. But all of this is just another example of how difficult and challenging it has been for the Biden administration. And now we're also resorting to airdrops to try to get that aid to the people who most need it.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And look, Paula, the U.S. is not the first country to airdrop aid into Gaza, UAE as well. So, what impact is it expected to have? And the U.N. has said that a large number of the Palestinian civilians injured in the carnage at a food aid convoy had gunshot wounds. What more are we learning there?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Omar, first of all on the air drops, I mean, certainly any food, or any goods that are getting into Gaza at this point are going to be welcomed. But we are hearing from a number of NGOs, that this is not the ideal way to do it. It is an imprecise way of getting aid in. We've seen in the past, for example, just a few days ago, one of the bundles landing in the sea and desperate residents then got into the water themselves to try and salvage anything they could. So, what we're hearing is more calls to open other crossings between Israel and Gaza.
 
Certainly, there is a couple further north, which would be able, we're here from NGOs to get food, water, and medical supplies into northern Gaza, which is desperately needed.
 
We're hearing that from malnutrition, for example, it's the worst case of child malnutrition in the world at this point. And NGO is saying that there needs to be more access and better protection for humanitarian aid trucks in the Gaza Strip. Not just these aerial drops, which are very imprecise.
 
Now, you did ask about that humanitarian aid convoy that just last Thursday ended with the death of more than 100 people.
 <br>[12:05:08]
 
Now, they were contesting timelines, contesting narratives. The Palestinians and eyewitnesses on the ground, and local journalists we spoke to said that there was a panic after Israeli tanks opened fire, and that is how many did die in that incident.
 
The Israelis say they're two separate events, and it was after they saw a stampede of people trying to get aid, that they opened fire. But what we're hearing from the U.N. now with the managed to send a team up is that they say many people who were injured and survived, did have bullet wounds.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes. And look, as horrific as what happened there was there are still diplomatic efforts that are trying to stay on track. And Priscilla, U.S. officials have said that despite what happened this week, hostage talks are back on track. Where do things stand there?
 
ALVAREZ: That's right, Omar. But what did happen this week did add fresh urgency into these talks because there was concern that it would disrupt these very sensitive diplomatic talks that have been ongoing.
 
Now, again, Qatar, Egypt, in the US have been involved in trying to meet or find some sort of compromise to reach -- to release these hostages. But the big question is whether Hamas is going to agree to what they have worked through.
 
Now, this is part of the president's call for a temporary ceasefire. Again, this is sort of seen as the way to get hostages that are being held by Hamas out of Gaza, but also to get aid into Gaza. And so, these talks have been ongoing for some time. We expect that, that will continue to be the case. But so very, very sensitive Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. Priscilla Alvarez, Paula Hancocks, thank you. Thank you both. Now, we're also following breaking news out west in the United States. Dangerous weather is slamming parts of California. A rare blizzard blanketing parts of the Sierra Nevada Mountains and forecasters are predicting more than 12-feet of snow to drop in some areas.
 
The icing conditions are making travel nearly impossible. Today, a 65- mile stretch of I-80 had to be shut down at the Nevada California border. CNN meteorologist Elisa Raffa joins us now with more.
 
So, where are you seeing the most dangerous conditions right now?
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Omar, we're looking at extreme conditions in the Sierra Nevada. Look at all of this purple -- about impossible travel with whiteout conditions from the wind and the heavy snow. Damaging winds that will cause power outages and extremely heavy snowfall rates up to four inches per hour possible, just incredibly heavy snow.
 
Here is a look at some totals that were already getting in, we're already looking at. One to two-feet of snow from Palisades Tahoe, Donner Peak, all looking at some totals already. And we still have snow that will pop all day today, and going into tomorrow.
 
Blizzard warnings in effect. You see there in the orange along the Sierra Nevada that goes through the day today and into tomorrow. As we just continue to find this snow that continues to pop. I mean, if we zoom in here in California, look at where all the rain is coming in, right? The moisture from the coast. And then, just how it continues to pump in the higher elevations, the spine in the mountain, where all that moisture meets the colder air and the higher elevations, and it's just a machine that won't turn off of all of these snow showers.
 
We'll keep that machine pumping as we go through the day today. And going into tonight as well. And there might be a little bit of a lull, and then you find more of that snow pumping going into Monday. So, again, just continuing to pile on these totals.
 
Here is a look at some of the snow accumulation. I mean, we're looking at up to trophy locally on some of the highest peaks over 5,000 feet. Many people many places really measuring the snow in feet throughout this event.
 
Now, it's not only heavy snow, we're packing winds that are hurricane force. We're talking winds that are topping 100 miles per hour. And look at that Mammoth Mountain, California has a peak wind gust reported. These are reports of 114 miles per hour, nearing 150 miles per hour for some other peaks.
 
We'll keep these winds continuing to pump. That's why you get the blizzard conditions because it's the heavy snow and the very strong wind gusts. This will not only drop visibility, but again, we're talking about dangerous life-threatening conditions with some whiteout conditions and power outages too. Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, and even if it is higher elevation, just to see wind gusts reports over 100 miles per hour is pretty incredible here. Elisa Raffa, thank you so much.
 
For more on this on these dangerous West Coast blizzard conditions, I want to bring in Joe Ervin. He is the city manager for South Lake, Tahoe. Joe, good to see you, even there's plenty of snow behind you, I can tell. But what are you seeing there right now?
 
JOE IRVIN, CITY MANAGER, LAKE TAHOE: Yes. Well, good morning, Omar, and thanks for having me. The snow level on the ground is about three to four feet. And we're forecasted to receive another foot in the next 12 hours, and potentially another flood after that into the evening hours.
 <br>[12:10:03]
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And look, I mean, heading into this, meteorologist had been warning about the potential impact of this storm for days now. I mean, you were describing snow in feet up to this point, and more -- another foot expected in some parts. How was your city able to prepare?
 
IRVIN: Yes. Well, we live at 6,500 feet of elevation. And so, our public works department, our police department, our fire department are always prepared. Emergencies come with the living here. And this really isn't an emergency at this time, it's a big blizzard and a lot of snow and high winds as was discussed.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes.
 
IRVIN: And so, we have eight zones for snow ploughing and 16 ploughs going with blowers, and sanders, and streets that are dangerous, we close and require chains.
 
So, the preparation is in the practice we put in and we're prepared and ready to handle this blizzard.
 
JIMENEZ: And I think you said the key portion there that is not an emergency right now. That so far, everything you all been doing to this point has kept things in order, at least in working order. Now, just north of Lake Tahoe -- Lake Tahoe, excuse me.
 
A 65-mile stretch of I 80, that was shut down because of these conditions. I know you mentioned the roads a little bit. But are your residents having difficulties traveling in this storm?
 
IRVIN: Well, we always advise whether you're a visitor coming from out of town or a resident in town to do your traveling before the storm to minimize the amount of cars that are on the roads.
 
You're right, I-80 is closed. And that's a big stretch from Reno all the way to San Francisco. That whole stretch is not closed. But, you know, that road.
 
U.S. 50 runs through South Lake Tahoe and that's open right now with chains and four-wheel drive vehicles permissible to pass over the past at Echo Summit.
 
JIMENEZ: And I know you all have obviously dealt with snow before. This is -- this is nothing new. But you know -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
IRVIN: Yes.
 
JIMENEZ: When you look at the weather like this and potential progressions, do you worry about emergency services being impacted? What is sort of that first threshold that you would be worried about that would tell you, OK, actually, maybe we need to switch something around because this is actually pretty dangerous. What does that first threshold you'd be looking for?
 
IRVIN: Yes, for me, when we start to lose power, we start to get a little more alert. We want to make sure that all of our residents have safety net systems in place.
 
People that are on medical devices that require power, you know what kind of systems we have in place to provide charging stations for them. And so, we work with our parks and recreation department and agency partners to ensure that our shelter facilities are ready to be stood up should we need to.
 
So, power, we're in close communication with Liberty utilities, our power provider. And really, the snow removal, like I said, it's what we've been doing here for since the city became a city and our plough drivers are some of the best and I take my hat off to the work they do, working around the clock, keeping our streets clear so people can get around.
 
JIMENEZ: 100 percent. And look, I mean, for anyone who is been in these types of mountain environments, especially in the winter, there are a lot of factors that sort of go hand in hand with each other. There is the snow, there is the wind, there is the visibility.
 
I mean, in some cases, for you all, the National Weather Service's warning of high to extreme avalanche danger. How worried are you about the threat of avalanches as the snow continues to fall? And is it different that maybe any worry you might have on a typical snowy weekend?
 
IRVIN: Yes. Here in South Lake Tahoe, I'm not terribly worried about the avalanches. Of course, that skiers that go to the back country need to be prepared for that and have their precautionary equipment with them, if they're -- when they go hiking, and out to the back country.
 
But as you can see, right behind me here, this is the National Forest and right up the hill from there is having a ski resort, and they have been going through their avalanche protocol all morning. I've been hearing the mountain bonds going off.
 
So, they have protocols and they make sure that they keep resorts safe. So, when the locals and the visitors get their chance to get on the chair to get some great turns in on the snow, it's safe for them to enjoy a day out there. JIMENEZ: Yes, yes. A lot of factors to keep an eye, and you, again, said the most important part of it all that is not emergency at this point. You feel like everything you've been doing has been working, which is great news.
 
Joe Irvin, thank you for joining us.
 
IRVIN: Thank you so much, Omar. I appreciate the opportunity.
 
JIMENEZ: Of course. And for everyone else, we're just getting started in the CNN NEWSROOM.
 
Still to come, just days before Super Tuesday, a new poll could be giving Biden and Democrats a real reason to worry. We're going to explain.
 <br>[12:14:45]
 
And later, conditions in Texas only expected to worsen today, as catastrophic wildfires burn out of control. We're going to take you there live.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JIMENEZ: A new poll from the New York Times and Siena College finds some pretty concerning numbers for President Joe Biden. It only finds -- it finds only 18 percent of voters think they've personally benefited from his policies, according to this poll.
 
The same poll also shows 40 percent of those surveyed think they have personally benefited from former President Trump's policy.
 
So, joining me now to break down the number is CNN reporter Alayna Treene, who is traveling with the former president in Greensboro, North Carolina.
 <br>[12:20:06]
 
So, Alayna, what sticks out to you from these numbers? What can you tell us?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN CONGRESSIONAL AND PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS REPORTER: Well, there are a few things, Omar. First of all, what you mentioned about how 18 -- just 18 percent of American voters feel that they have personally been helped by Joe Biden's policies, compared with the 40 percent of Americans who said the same for Donald Trump. I think that really sticks out to me. And it really shows some of the trouble that Biden is facing ahead of a potential general election rematch with president -- the former president, Donald Trump.
 
The other thing that I know, I can tell you that the Donald Trump campaign was looking at this morning was, they were celebrating some of the numbers in this poll, specifically, the part that showed in a hypothetical matchup between Donald Trump and Joe Biden that Trump narrowly led to Biden 48 percent to 43 percent. It's something we also saw some of his allies and advisers share on social media and you can probably expect him to tout some of those poll numbers during his speech later tonight.
 
But look, Omar, Donald Trump has two trips today, one in North Carolina. Nikki Haley is also in the state today. He'll also -- and then, Trump will also be in Richmond later today.
 
These are the only two states that he is visiting ahead of Super Tuesday. And part of that, is because the Trump campaign does see these as battlegrounds ahead of November. And I think from his rhetoric that you can expect today, it will be far more about a general election that it will be about the primary. Donald Trump and his team essentially see that this prime -- or believe that this primary is over that Nikki Haley is just hanging on.
 
But that they will soon have enough delegates to declare him the presumptive Republican nominee.
 
Now, I also just want to share with you some of what I expect to hear from Donald Trump. Today's particularly here in North Carolina. They are really going to be focusing on the economy and inflation.
 
I spoke with a senior Trump campaign advisor last night and he said that is the issue that they believe North Carolina voters care the most about.
 
They think that many of them are feeling the strain on their wallets as well as they really do want to see a change on the economy and blame Joe Biden for that.
 
So, I think you can expect a lot of that rhetoric from Donald Trump when he takes the stage in just a little over an hour. Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, Alayna Treene, it is a skill reporting when there is a full-on event essentially going on behind you. And you did it perfectly. Alayna Treene, thank you so much.
 
All right, everybody. Coming up, any day now, a Fulton County Georgia judge will decide whether to disqualify District Attorney funny Willis from Trump's election interference case in the state. The impact that could have on when or whether Trump will face trial next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:07]
 
JIMENEZ: All right. We've got a little bit of a timeline. A judge in Georgia says he will decide within the next two weeks if Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis should be disqualified from Donald Trump's election subversion case. A high-stakes hearing over Willis's alleged misconduct wrapped up in Atlanta on Friday. CNN's Nick Valencia has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CRAIG GILLEN, ATTORNEY TO DAVID SHAFER: These people, Your Honor, is a systematic misconduct, and they need to go.
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): One after another.
 
JOHN MERCHANT, ATTORNEY TO MICHAEL ROMAN: I think, you know what when you see it.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): Defense attorneys pushed for Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis to be disqualified from former President Donald Trump's Georgia election subversion case.
 
MERCHANT: If this court allows this kind of behavior to go on, the entire public confidence in the system will be shot.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): Willis's arrival during a short break in the hearing took the courtroom by a surprise. She nodded in rock back and forth in her chair as the state argued why she should stay on the racketeering case.
 
ADAM ABBATE, CHIEF DEPUTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY, MAJOR CRIMES DIVISION, FULTON COUNTY: A mere fishing expedition.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): The defense claimed Willis and the case's special prosecutor, Nathan Wade started dating before she hired him for the job.
 
MERCHANT: She put her boyfriend in the spot, paid him, and then reap the benefits from it.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): And that she benefited through meals and lavish trips he paid for.
 
MERCHANT: She's received a personal financial benefit of over $9,200 in this case that she can't account for.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): The lead attorney defending Willis said she paid Wade back in full, arguing this has been an effort to harass and embarrass Willis.
 
ABBATE: An actual conflict has not been shown. And more importantly, in conjunction with that, there is been absolutely no evidence that the district attorney has benefited financially at all.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): Willis, sitting at the prosecutors table just feet from her attorney, as the judge question several of his arguments for why there is no grounds to disqualify the D.A.
 
SCOTT MCAFEE, JUDGE, FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA, SUPERIOR COURT: There is a relationship and that money has changed hands. There is maybe still an open question of where the ledger stands. But I think it was conceded that, that balance could run in one way or -- in the district attorney's favor. Is that contested?
 
ABBATE: Yes. What's not contested is that a relationship did develop.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): Last month, Willis testified she started dating wait after she hired him and denying any impropriety. FANI WILLIS, DISTRICT ATTORNEY, FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA: These people are on trial for trying to steal an election in 2020. I'm not on trial no matter how hard you try to put me on trial.
 
VALENCIA (voice over): Willis has asked multiple times to bring Trump's racketeering case to trial as soon as possible, in the hopes of settling it before the presidential election.
 
But for now, the wait continues.
 
MCAFEE: I hope to have an answer for everyone within the next two weeks.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALENCIA (on camera): So, now, we wait for Judge Scott McAfee to make his decision, which as you heard there, it's going to take two weeks for him to give his order.
 
He says he is going to have to get through some legal issues and make some factual determinations.
 <br>[12:30:04]
 
It will take time. But ultimately, McAfee will have to weigh what the threshold for disqualification is. Is it an actual conflict of interest or simply the appearance of one. 
 
Nick Valencia, CNN, Atlanta.
 
JIMENEZ: All right. Thank you, Nick. Joining me to talk more about this case and other Trump legal matters is Michael Zeldin. He is a former federal prosecutor. So Michael, do you think these attorneys for Trump's co-defendants made the case that Fani Willis should be disqualified from this election subversion case?
 
MICHAEL ZELDIN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: It's a great question. And Nick set it up perfectly to say, will the judge require an actual conflict or the appearance of a conflict? If he's going to fall on the -- it's an appearance of a conflict standard, then I think they may have made their case for disqualification. If it's an actual conflict, I think that the evidence is still a bit soft on whether there was financial gain sufficient to say that Fani Willis's judgment or impartiality was compromised.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And two part question for you because obviously, you know, this is happening in an election year. This is happening not just in the state of Georgia, but also in some ways the Court of Public Opinion as far as confidence in what comes out of this case. If the judge allows Willis to remain on the case, from legal standpoint, do you see it going to trial before the 2024 election? And from a public standpoint, I mean, Fani Willis have said it when she testified that she is not on trial. This is about putting someone who allegedly tried to steal an election on trial. But will the public still have confidence in this case, if she remains on based on everything we've gone through to get to this point? ZELDIN: Where I in charge, and as my children say, thankful you're not, where I in charge, I would ask Fani Willis to step aside. And I'd ask Nathan Wade to step aside. I would want very much for the Office of the District Attorney to remain on the case. If the office is disqualified, then this thing is not going to trial for a very long time. But if she steps aside for appearance purposes, and Wade step aside for the same appearance purposes, then I think this case could go forward, really, probably in very late fall, depending on the timeline of other trials.
 
But if she stays on this case, I think that you raise a very good question of whether or not the public will think that this is as Trump has argued, a political prosecution. And that, of course, is not in the interest of America or specifically the justice system.
 
JIMENEZ: It's a question that I think Trump and his co-defendants across various jurisdictions are trying to raise in various ways. I want to pivot to Trump's classified documents case, which also had a hearing yesterday in Florida and Special Prosecutor Jack Smith's team, they want to start that trial in early July and Trump's lawyers when it pushed back to after the election or August at the earliest. Do you have any sense of how this Trump appointed judge will rule? And I guess on a broader sense, why are we seeing an effort by Trump to delay, delay, delay as much as possible here?
 
ZELDIN: Well, of course, he wants to delay until after the election, after the inauguration, actually, because he would dismiss these charges were he, the new President of the United States. Why he would pick August as a possible intermediary date is I think that his preference would be to try if he has to go to trial, to try the case in Mar-a-Lago with that jury pool up in Fort Pierce, rather than in the District of Columbia with its jury pool. So there's a calculation thereof if I have to go to trial, where is my best opportunity to succeed between the two federal cases? Mar-a-Lago would seem to be the better jury pool for him.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes. Well, we will see these cases and the campaign cycle are not going anywhere. Michael Zeldin, I'm sure we'll see you back soon.
 
ZELDIN: Thanks Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: Of course.
 <br>[12:34:12]
 
All right, coming up, wildfires in Texas already massive and deadly. Now millions are under a red flag warning as weather conditions in the Central Plains threatened to make matters worse, we're going to show you more coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JIMENEZ: Eight million people are under red flag warnings in Central Plains, Texas this weekend as dry and windy conditions threatened to fuel the state's catastrophic wildfires. You see some of the images there, including the deadly Smokehouse Creek Fire, which has already torched 1.2 million acres and killed two people. It is the largest blaze in the state's history.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal is on the ground for us in Fritsch, Texas. So Camila How dangerous are the conditions out there right now? What have you seen out there in the area?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey Omar, so it's definitely significantly hotter than it was over the last couple of days with temperatures are higher. We have wind gusts of 40 to 50 miles an hour. The fires are still raging. And in the meantime, you also have the grieving process, the cleanup.
 
According to officials, about 4 to 500 structures have been destroyed by these wildfires. And it's not just structures, you know, this is a home or this was a home. This was the Johnson family home. This is the entrance to their property. There was a wooden deck here where they watched the sunset. So this is where they had their barbecues and family dinners. And when you walked into the home here, you would walk into the living room area. This is a family that was here for 22 years, they raised seven children in this house.
 <br>[12:40:24]
 
So of course, it's been extremely difficult for them. I talked to Ronnie Johnson about the first time that he came to see his property after the fire. And this is what he told me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RONNIE JOHNSON, TEXAS RESIDENT: We came back about 10:30 that night. We kind of snuck these ranches. Drive fence is gone. This was -- that was pretty tough.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: So you hear the emotion. You know, it's that process of trying to figure out what comes next. This family says they're not leaving. They want to rebuild. So again, it's a really difficult process for the people that live in this area. And also keep in mind, there's a huge ranching aspect to this area, 85 percent of the state's cattle is raised here in the Texas panhandle. So you have a lot of loss of cattle.
 
And they're anticipating even more because a lot of these cows were injured. So it's a -- an emotional process. It's a financial process that's going to be happening here over the next couple of days. And again, it just has not been easy for the community as a whole. But what I have seen is everyone coming together, so many people wanting to help those that have lost their homes, those that have lost cattle, you've -- you're seeing donations of hay, of water, everyone coming together to do everything they can.
 
Unfortunately, there's still a lot of work to be done that Smokehouse Creek Fire only at 15 percent containment at last check. So it's still raging, it is still very much something dangerous and difficult to deal with in the states and even into Oklahoma. So again, this is not going to be over anytime soon. This is just the beginning of this entire process for these families and for this community. Omar?
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. Lives and livelihoods swept up in the middle of it all as this fire continues to grow and it can switch just with the shift in direction of wind. Camila Bernal, thank you for being on this. Stay safe.
 
All right, I want to talk more about this with Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller. Commissioner, thank you for being with us. I mean, what should people in the Texas panhandle in particular be preparing for this weekend?
 
SID MILLER, TEXAS AGRICULTURE COMMISSIONER: Well, we've had a break over the last 48 hours. The winds died down. We had a little wake (ph) in the snow. But that's all over. It did allow firefighters to get in next to the fire. This fire was so intense, you couldn't get the fire trucks anywhere close to the fire. So that's why this big fire is only about 15 percent contained. So we're looking at high winds again today, 40 miles an hour, tomorrow is 50. So it's been very devastating. We've lost over 500 structures. We've got over 120 miles of electric lines burnt and underground. That means these people have no electricity. There's no water to pump for the livestock. There's no grass. There's no water.
 
All the livestock, we've lost over 3,000 head which is a very small number, that will double or triple easily. We've got cattle that we're going to have to euthanize because of the damage to their hooves, their odors. We'll just have to put them down. We've got seven grain and seed dealers that completely lost everything completely wiped out. We've had two fatalities. We've got five firefighters that are injured.
 
It's great, you know, great damage here. Now, I'm asking for people to donate hay. They can go to my website, texasagriculture.gov. We have a hay hotline there. We desperately need feed and hay. If you can't do -- you know if you just donate money, we've got a fund setup for that. It's the STAR Fund, State of Texas Agriculture Relief. We'll help these farmers get back on their feet by buying them fencing material, feed, and things like that.
 
We have our own mental health/suicide hotline. It's called AgriStress Helpline. And I'll give the number in just --
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, go for it. Go for it Commissioner.
 
MILLER: The number is 833-897-2474, 833-897-2474.
 
JIMENEZ: And Commissioner, I just wanted to jump in because I mean, those services are all incredible and hopefully people go in and help you, you know, help donate and help use some of those resources provided. I mean, but this isn't the first time a natural disaster has impacted ranchers in Texas. But I'm curious just for you. How does this time compare? How is this different?
 
MILLER: We've had big fires up here before, a million acres cumulatively. This is the biggest one ever in Texas, ever in the United States actually. This is a monster fire. It's going to take days to get it put out. The damage is going to increase. The numbers are going to go up. So we desperately need to help our neighbors and friends into Texas panhandle. It's all -- it went all the way across the panhandle and is now into western Oklahoma.
 <br>[12:45:16]
 
So like you said, there's -- I think there's eight states that are under fire warning, high wind warnings, 8 million people. So this is a big one. One of the biggest action we've ever had.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And you know, I've covered many wildfires never in Texas, but I've covered them usually in California. And one thing that sticks out to me in situations like this is, look, right now, it is trying to get this fire under control, is trying to make sure this fire doesn't spread.
 
When the fire gets put out, it's not like people can go home to their places that they've lost. It's not like those livelihoods just snap back, you know, in the blink of an eye just because it's smoke instead of fire. What do these fires do to those livelihoods and what livelihoods are you most concerned about based on what you typically see in an area like this of Texas?
 
MILLER: Grass and sand bag fill (ph) were 100 years, you know, they've lost 100-year-old home, all the family belongings and all the mementos are gone. Some -- the only thing some of these people have is the clothes on their back. So we desperately need to get them some help. Go to my Facebook page or drop off sites or phone numbers where you can contact or to deliver or drop off. We've got soft spots all over the state of Texas.
 
We've also have delivery points in the panhandle. (Inaudible) Miller for Texas or you can go to Texas Agriculture or texasagriculture.gov is the website. All that information is there. Reach out and help us get this community back on their feet. We need hay, worse than we need anything right now.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes, Commissioner Sid Miller, thank you for taking the time. I know it's a really busy time for your state. And let us know if there's anything we can do to continue with the helping process. Appreciate you.
 
MILLER: You bet. Best thing your listeners can do is pray. Pray for these people. They need it.
 
JIMENEZ: All right, thank you Commissioner.
 
Still ahead, the Georgia State House passed a bill that will require local law enforcement to arrest any person suspected of being in the country illegally. Immigrant rights organizations say the bill targets immigrants. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:52:01]
 
JIMENEZ: A bill passed by the Georgia House will allow police to arrest anyone suspected of being in the country illegally. Interest in toughening the state's immigration laws has picked up steam after the killing of nursing student, Lakin Riley, on the University of Georgia campus nine days ago. The 22-year-old nursing student was laid to rest yesterday. However, critics of the bill believe it targets immigrants forcing them to live in fear. So I want to bring in CNN national correspondent Rafael Romo. Rafael, what are you learning about this bill and the prospects of this bill because it only has passed the House?
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Omar. It has only passed the House and immigrant rights organizations say they are shocked and horrified over the death of 22-year-old nursing student, Lakin Riley and say that the undocumented Venezuelan immigrants suspected in her killing should face justice.
 
At the same time, two Hispanic organizations at the University of Georgia, Athens say their members have been targeted with hate messages on social media and fear anti-immigrant rhetoric may be ramping up. And as reported previously, the Georgia House of Representatives on Thursday passed bill 1105, which among other things, would require state and local law enforcement in Georgia to cooperate with federal authorities in enforcing immigration law.
 
The bill Omar says that a peace officer acting within the scope of his or her authority or other authorization from the federal government shall have the power to arrest with probable cause, any person suspected of being an illegal alien. Latino organization has told us they're concerned this may lead to racial profiling and cases where U.S. citizens are mistaken for undocumented immigrants solely because of the color of their skin or their accent. Pedro Marin, the longest serving Hispanic member of the Georgia House of Representatives, expressed similar concerns while speaking against the bill. Let's take a listen in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. PEDRO MARIN (D-GA): It is easy and tempting during an election cycle to target minorities and immigrants in order to score political points. Since taking office in 2003, I have witnessed again and again, ambitious representatives and senators pursue fear as an strategy to attain and maintain elected office. But our community cannot and should not be collectively punished for the horrific actions of one.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO: On the other hand, Omar, Jesse Petrea, the bill's author and one of its sponsors said this is not about targeting any particular community but about safety for all.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JESSE PETREA (R-GA): This is a public safety bill. This is a public safety bill. This bill addresses how law enforcement interacts with individuals who are illegally in the country and then break the laws of our country subsequently. To be very clear, it is about that nothing more.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:55:07]
 
ROMO: And Omar, Petrea also said that when it comes to law enforcement agencies not cooperating with the federal immigration authorities in dangerous public safety and it makes a mockery out of our nation's immigration laws, the bill now goes to the Georgia Senate. But as I said at the beginning, Omar, a lot of concern here in Georgia about the effect of the law. Back to you.
 
JIMENEZ: A lot of concern and the concerns of the border have been top of minds politically, and we will no doubt see those two paths intersect over the course of this election year. Rafael Romo, thank you so much.
 
A quick programming note, CNN travels back to the golden age of Vegas to witness the glitz and glamor of the 1960s. The CNN Original Series, Vegas: The Story of Sin City continues with a new episode tomorrow night at 10:00 on CNN.
 
Now when we come back, the U.S. made its first humanitarian air drop into Gaza. Why aid agencies say the move is just a temporary band aid. We'll explain coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)