Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Trump to Go to Paris; Key GOP Senators Open to Skipping Background Checks; Kobayashi Considered Voluntary Missing Person. Aired 9-9:30a ET

Aired December 03, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00] 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Of allegations and accusations. What are you hearing from leaders and others about the - that pick and others? 
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: AMANPOUR: Look, a lot of people are very concerned. The United States military is the biggest, most powerful military in the world. It's got about 3 million people under arms. It's got a budget of nearly $1 trillion. And they have, you know, it's a massive nuclear power. So, everybody is concerned about that. As well, the Chinese military and the Chinese government is angling to surpass American leadership, maybe by 2030, in their, you know, in their minds. 
 
So, I was talking to former U.S. defense secretary, and former Republican, well, Republican senator and congressman, William Cohen. And about, for instance, Pete Hegseth, who's Trumps nominee for Defense secretary, he's very concerned because of all the issues that have been, you know, put out there because Hegseth is on Capitol Hill trying to, you know, put his - his - his - his character and his substance to that. 
 
And you heard what Merkel said about bypassing the parliamentary system. Well, Cohen said he has to be rigorously examined, like all of them, by the Senate, background checks by the FBI. And I asked him about his own experience as a senator and as a congressman during the Watergate impeachment. 
 
Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIAMS COHEN, FORMER DEFENSE SECRETARY: Christiane, I was trained as an attorney, a lawyer, and I believe fundamentally in the rule of law. And it's the rule of law which separates us from autocratic or dictatorial governments. And that was primarily on my mind during the Watergate issue, Iran-Contra. I want all of us, presidents, everyone beneath the president, to abide by the rule of law and respect the rule of law. And I think the party, most recently, in my judgment, has been more concerned about power rather than the rule of law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: Fascinating.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes. Indeed. There's a lot on the agenda ahead. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. 
 
It's great to see you, Christiane. Thanks for bringing us that. 
 
AMANPOUR: Thank you. 
 
BOLDUAN: Really appreciate it. 
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: A big travel announcement from the Trump transition as his cabinet picks face tough questions from some Republicans.
 
Breaking news in the case of the stowaway who managed to make it past multiple security checkpoints on a flight to Paris. Now Delta is refusing to bring her back to the United States.
 
And a musical masterpiece. The director of the blockbuster film "Wicked" will be here helping us in our very own news musical. 
 
Sara is out. I'm John Berman, with Kate Bolduan. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
So, we just learned this morning that President-elect Trump is heading to Paris for the reopening of the Notre Dame Cathedral. French President Emmanuel Macron invited Trump. You just heard Christiane and Kate talking about this. This will be his first foreign visit since winning the election. Obviously, world leaders are watching Trump very closely, and everything from NATO, to Ukraine, to tariffs. 
 
Overnight, Trump posted on social media there will be hell to pay in the Middle East if Hamas does not release hostages from Gaza before Inauguration Day.
 
CNN's Steve Contorno is with us this morning. 
 
Talk about the travel plans, Steve.
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Yes, Donald Trump will join French President Macron in France, in Paris, on Saturday, where he will be part of the reopening of Notre Dame. Remember, Macron was the first world leader to congratulate Donald Trump after his victory last month. And now he is the first to get a foreign visit from President- elect Donald Trump. And Trump was quick to accept the invitation, writing on social media that Macron, quote, "has done a wonderful job ensuring that Notre Dame has been restored to its full level of glory."
 
And just think about how much Donald Trump has already inserted himself into foreign affairs since taking office. He has threatened Canada and Mexico with tariffs. He has invited the prime minister of Canada and hosted him at Mar-a-Lago. He has been in a sort of dispute with the president of Mexico over trade and whether or not she agreed to stop the flow of migrants across the border. He has already spoken with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy. He has hosted the Argentinian president at Mar-a-Lago. He has threatened to put 100 percent tariffs on China, Russia and other countries that are considering a currency to challenge the U.S. dollar. All of this coming in just a little over - almost four weeks since he won. And you can really get a sense of what his priorities are going to be on foreign affairs when he takes office in January, John. 
 
BERMAN: All right, Steve Contorno for us. Steve, thank you very much.
 
Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Today, embattled secretary of defense pick Pete Hegseth is heading back to Capitol Hill to meet with more Senate Republicans, making the rounds. 
 <br>[09:05:07]
 
Hegseth is trying to shore up support just as he is facing new allegations through a really scathing report of inappropriate behavior and mismanagement - and mismanagement during his time when he was heading up a veterans organization. Still, a senior advisor to President-elect Trump says the transition team is confident in his confirmation. 
 
All of this is happening, though, as some Republican senators also appear to be warming up to Trump's desire - the transition team's desire to ignore the standard of putting nominees through FBI background checks. 
 
Let's get the very latest on where things stand in terms of confirmation and making the rounds on Capitol Hill with Lauren Fox on Capitol Hill. 
 
What are you hearing from lawmakers, Lauren? 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this is another big day for Pete Hegseth, who is going around Capitol Hill meeting with some of these senators. We saw yesterday he met with a large number of them, including his wife, behind closed doors. And this is really an opportunity for Hegseth to correct the record, to talk to senators about his past, to talk about his vision for the Department of Defense. 
 
But it also comes as there are Republicans with a lot of questions. In fact, I talked yesterday with Senator Shelley Moore Capito. She's expected to meet with Hegseth today. And we were asking her a series of questions about that "New Yorker" report and specifically, you know, how he managed this veterans organization, how he dealt with women. And she basically said, this is something that's going to come up in her meeting with him today, and she would have more to say after it.
 
But it just shows you, you know, there are a narrow number of Republicans who could stop these nominees. Republicans can afford to lose just a few votes. But if any more of them step out of line, then suddenly Donald Trump and the transition has a huge problem here. Now, one of the ways that they could assuage concerns on The Hill is to put the nominees through these FBI background checks. 
 
Here's what the incoming Republican leader, John Thune, said yesterday. He said, quote, "my job is to make sure that the nominees have a thorough, fair process and ultimately, you know, our members will decide. Historically, the best place to get that done has been through the FBI." 
 
Now, other Republicans, including Mike Crapo, a Republican from Idaho, made clear that he's going to rely on the president to make his decisions about whether or not these nominees need to go through an FBI background check. 
 
I will tell you this, Kate, if these nominees do not go through that normal and standard process, Democrats are going to be calling foul time and time again. That is going to be part of the strategy moving forward. They're just going to be reminding everyone at home, this is not the normal course of business. And again, for some Republicans who might have questions, those FBI background checks could go a long way to assuage concerns. 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: They surely could. 
 
Lauren, thank you so much for pulling that together. Let's see what happens today. 
 
And let's start right there. Joining me right now is CNN political commentator and Republican strategist Shermichael Singleton, and Christine Quinn, executive committee chair of the New York State Democratic Committee. 
 
Guys, let's start with that. I think - I think - believe I've asked this question a couple of times from - to - from official Washington now down to strategist - strategist, New York and Washington. And I'm going to ask it again, Christine. Is there any good reason to not submit any of these nominees to a background check?
 
CHRISTINE QUINN, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CHAIR, NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE: Absolutely not.
 
BOLDUAN: If there's no problem, why not? 
 
QUINN: I agree. I mean, when you're saying, don't go through the normal process, which is one that people in government and Americans are used to, you're saying, let's lower the standard, it makes people go, why? What's wrong with these people that they can't do what's been done forever? I don't understand it. 
 
And if you're going into an administration, like Trump is, with not a landslide victory, right, it was close, you want to have everybody confident in you, believe in you. And this just raises questions about nominees, some who already have been very, very shaky with the news that's coming out, like Hegseth, and some who have dropped out. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. 
 
And on that, Shermichael, hearing from John Thune, look, he's got - he is a man who is always very careful with his words and - and he knows all eyeballs are on him, especially these days. When Thune says, traditionally, historically, the best way to get about all of this information so we can have a very good vetting and we can do our jobs of advise and consent would be through an FBI background check, I again pose to you, why not?
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGELTON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I mean, I'm looking at this from two different perspectives, Kate. The Senate has the authority to advise and consent. They are to bring each of those nominees to a very rigorous confirmation process so that they're ultimately able to decide, do they get through committee to make it to the full body of the Senate.
 
From the president-elect's perspective, I would just throw out, the guy's been pretty clear for months now, heck, maybe even years, about his skepticism and dislike of the FBI. 
 <br>[09:10:03]
 
So, it really doesn't come as a big surprise to me that the president- elect is saying, I don't trust this body to vet the individuals that I'm nominating. This isn't necessarily mandated by law. Congress could potentially attempt to do so. I doubt the courts would approve it because I think they would all - obviously say that you need separation of powers. The executive has the authority to ultimately decide who he or she wants to nominate. And the Senate has the authority to decide if they want to confirm those nominations. And so that's - that's how I'm looking at this. I'm not surprised, based on Trump's record of saying, I don't trust the FBI. And I think most of the American people wouldn't be surprised by it either. 
 
BOLDUAN: Maybe not surprised, but add into just like the reality check of it. Anyone who's going to be working in the administration and below these cabinet members with any kind of -any kind of authority, they're going to go through an FBI background check, like, this is - 
 
SINGLETON: Well, I've gone through one. I mean, I was - I was an appointee in the first Trump administration. I went through one. 
 
But I'll say this, Kate, the president doesn't go through an FBI check. I mean - and this is the most powerful person in the country. So, my point is, if you want to start somewhere, maybe start at the very top. 
 
I think the president's been very clear on why he isn't going through this traditional process. I think the Senate has the authority to send each of these individuals to a rigorous questioning ordeal. If they passed, then ultimately they get confirmed. If they don't, then they won't get confirmed. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes, I mean, look, I - the American people very, very clearly voted for Donald Trump. 
 
SINGLETON: They did.
 
BOLDUAN: The American people don't have a vote when it comes to Pete Hegseth and him being defense secretary. So, there is not this direct correlation. I totally hear you though on no surprise that Donald Trump and his team might not like - might not - or wants to say they don't like background checks. 
 
Let us move on then to the next - where do I feel like going now? Oh, I want to talk about - let's talk about Pete Hegseth, actually. Lauren Fox was talking about how they're making the rounds again on Capitol Hill. They're trying to shore - Hegseth and others are trying to shore up support amongst Republican senators because, we know, a very - a - just a few can completely upset a confirmation process. Leaving the meetings - a meeting with Hegseth yesterday, conservative Republican senators came out and they gave their full-throated support for him. 
 
I want to read what Cynthia Lummis said after the meeting. She called the accusations that Hegseth is facing, "all of these other issues are side issues." And then she also said this. "They're throwing disparaging remarks at someone who has earned a great deal of credibility. Are soldiers sometimes wild child? Yeah, that can happen. But it is very clear that this guy is the guy who, at a time when Americans are losing confidence in their own military and our ability to project strength around the world, that Pete Hegseth is the answer to that concern."
 
Christine. 
 
QUINN: Well, there is so much wrong with her statement. First of all, it just reeks of, well, boys will be boys. One, why do we believe men are so bad, hold them to such a low standard? Two, why do we not want to protect women in general in the military, but make the military and every workplace a place that is free of sexual harassment, sexual assault, God knows, and a fair, safe place. 
 
BOLDUAN: And also just think that's not - that's not a - that is not a woke statement.
 
QUINN: No.
 
BOLDUAN: It's just being - it's just being not harassed at work.
 
QUINN: Yes. It's just being - saying, regardless of your gender, you get to go to work and no one commits a crime against you. And then, do we need to shore up the belief in the military? Absolutely. This guy is going to do it? Yes. He served his country. I did not. I thank him for that. He was honored in that service. But then he's been, no offense, a news anchor. He hasn't been in the area of defense his entire career. So, just from that he's not the guy. 
 
But how does a guy who seems to every day have worse and worse accusations, even from his own mother, how is he going to engender a morale boost and the American people to say, yes, we got things under control, when there are problems all over the world that are only growing. 
 
This nomination should be dropped immediately. We should bring somebody in who doesn't have a background of being against women and potentially being a criminal. 
 
BOLDUAN: He's not accused of any crimes. I just - so, I just want to - I want to make -
 
QUINN: Potentially.
 
BOLDUAN: I want to make - you can throw potentially around anything. Let's just deal in fact, in reality.
 
QUINN: OK.
 
BOLDUAN: He's not been accused of any crime. 
 
Shermichael, have a final thought on that one, please. 
 
SINGLETON: Yes, look, I mean, anyone can make an allegation. I think most people would say you should protect women. I would agree with that. You guys are two women. I wouldn't want any woman to make an allegation and not have that allegation at least thoroughly investigated. 
 
But with that said, I do think Pete has a great background as being a soldier. And the potential morale booster of having someone who wasn't necessarily a general but someone sort of lower in the field fighting with soldiers, not someone in an office sort of making strategic decisions, I think that does make a big difference to a lot of soldiers out there who have seen combat and have seen brothers and sisters in the military that they have frankly lost.
 <br>[09:15:11]
 
And so I think that that is indeed a bonus. 
 
I would also say, we are having some very, very serious issues, Kate, with try and encourage young people, particularly younger men, to consider the armed services. Can Pete potentially increase that intrigue and that interest? I absolutely think so. Let's give the guy an opportunity. He will go through the process. A lot of this reporting is out there. Senators will ask those questions. And I suspect he'll have answers to each of them. 
 
BOLDUAN: He can - that is exactly what the confirmation process and the vetting process is. Interestingly, though, CNN's reporting is in the meetings of a dozen Republican senators he met with yesterday, none of these allegations or accusations were brought up. Just saying.
 
It's good to see you guys. Thank you both very much. 
 
QUINN: Thank you.
 
BOLDUAN: John. BERMAN: All right, bombshell new video shows missing woman Hannah Kobayashi appearing to voluntarily walk across the border into Mexico. Why police now say there is no more they can do. 
 
We have breaking news on the stowaway who managed to make it past multiple security checkpoints to fly from the U.S. to France. Delta now refusing to bring her back to the country.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:46]
 
BOLDUAN: So, a woman from Maui who was reported missing last month is now being considered a voluntary missing person. This is coming from Los Angeles Police who say they now believe that 30-year-old Hannah Kobayashi left California and entered Mexico on her own. She was last seen in early November when she missed her connecting flight from L.A. going to New York. Her aunt had come on our show to plead for the public to help in finding - in finding Hannah. And now police say they have new evidence.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF JIM MCDONNEL, LOS ANGELES POLICE: As the family is aware, late yesterday, after traveling to the U.S./Mexico border, we reviewed video surveillance from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which clearly shows Kobayashi crossing the United States border on foot into Mexico. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: CNN's Julia Vargas Jones is in Los Angeles with much more on this for us, tracking all of this for us.
 
Julia, what are you learning? 
 
JULIA VARGAS JONES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, we are learning now, Kate, that she was alone when she crossed that border into Mexico. She had her luggage, which she took from LAX, but she did not have her phone. So, authorities say that the moment she left LAX, she did not have her phone on her anymore. And she took public transit from there to downtown L.A., and she was seen at The Grove Shopping Mall in L.A. She went to a bookstore. She went to an event at the Nike store. And then she was seen at the Greyhound station, which now they're saying from there, from that Greyhound station on November 12th, she took public transportation down to the San Ysidro (ph) border crossing that's just a couple of hours south of Los Angeles. And that's where she made that crossing into Mexico. 
 
Now, something that's key that authorities are saying here is that now that this is a voluntary missing person's case is that she is an adult. She's 30 years old and she has the right to go wherever she pleases. But they are asking, though, is for Hannah to consider her family and the people that are concerned about her, saying that, quote, "just a simple phone call" could reassure her loved ones. Now, the family that we spoke with, both her sister, her aunt, as you mentioned, and also her father before that, they did show a lot of concern for her disappearance. And that's in part, Kate, because of some text messages that she had sent on those days leading up to it. 
 
So, we do have that kind of a conversation she had both with her mother and with her friends where she said on November 11th, her last communication with people, was that "deep hackers wiped my identity, stole all of my funds and had me on some kind of a mind expletive since Friday. I got tricked pretty much into giving away all of my funds for someone I thought I loved." 
 
Of course, that being the last communication they had with Hannah Kobayashi, that raised some concern from the family. And what they're saying is that they disagree with the assessment from the LAPD. They said they were kept in the dark during this investigation. And we're - hopefully we'll hear some more in the coming days from them.
 
Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. Julie, thank you very much. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, with us now is Misty Marris, trial and defense attorney. 
 
Misty, thanks so much for being with us. 
 
So - so, what sticks out to you here in this case now that we have this video?
 
MISTY MARRIS, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, now that we have the video, it seems that law enforcement really put together Kobayashi's actions within those days. And what sticks out to me the most is that law enforcement has now said that she actually requested that her luggage be returned from New York back to LAX. She purchased a bus ticket. She's seen on foot with her luggage leaving the country. All leading to this conclusion that she's what's called a voluntary missing person. That means an individual who is missing but is gone because of their own free will. They've left on their own. Because she's an adult, ultimately that conclusion leaves law enforcement in its position where it's difficult for any further action to be taken. 
 
But the dichotomy between all of that, all of what's revealed in the investigation and those text messages that were sent to her family, certainly understandable why her family was immediately incredibly concerned. 
 
[09:25:012]
 
BERMAN: Is there any legal recourse the family still has? 
 
MARRIS: Well, they could. So, first of all, it doesn't mean that they can't continue their search, even on a private basis, hire private investigators. Also, Los Angeles has now declared this to be a voluntary missing persons case, but they're not closing the missing persons case. That means the investigation is still open. The family could also ask and put pressure on the FBI or federal investigators to get involved to the extent that there's additional information out there that would lead to a different conclusion and that Kobayashi could potentially be in peril. So, the family could push - push that further in order to continue the investigation, which, at this moment, is not closed. 
 
BERMAN: Yes, I was going to say, because there are still questions surrounding, at a minimum, the text messages that Julia just reported that she sent her family. They have the suggestion of illegality. I mean if she was deeply hacked and had information stolen and to a certain extent extorted, as those texts suggest, what would the authorities be investigating there? Wouldn't they still be investigating that?
 
MARRIS: Well, they could investigate potential cybercrimes, but it could go one of two ways, John. On one hand, it could absolutely be cybercrimes, a hacker, some - somebody using force or coercion to get her to leave the country. All of that could be potential for investigation based on those text messages. Presumably there would be some form of an electronic footprint specifically with money, banking, anything like that. 
 
Or, on the flip side, it could be that these messages were sent to a certain extent to provide excuses for her disappearance in which case there could be legal ramifications down the line to the extent that was purposefully misleading and resulted in a loss of public resources due to the investigation. So, certainly could go either way. Maybe warrants additional investigation. And the family could potentially push for that. 
 
BERMAN: Needless to say, a lot of questions here. 
 
MARRIS: A lot.
 
BERMAN: Misty Marris, thank you very much, 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Breaking news into CNN. South Korea has just declared martial law. We are getting new details in - this is - we've got this breaking news story coming in right now. We're going to have much more on that next. We're getting - pulling the details together. 
 
We also have a new firsthand look into the making of the magical land of Oz. The director of "Wicked," the musical adaptation, breaking box office records, is our guest. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)