Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Karoline Leavitt is Interviewed about the Trump Campaign; Zelenskyy Wants Restrictions Lifted. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired August 29, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:19] 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: So, new this morning, a Fox News poll on the state of the race, when asked who voters think can bring needed change, look at that, Harris in Georgia, Nevada, and Arizona with a slight lead over Donald Trump. Trump with a slight lead over Harris in North Carolina. Obviously, all within the margin of error.
 
With me now is press secretary to Donald Trump's campaign, Karoline Leavitt. 
 
Thanks so much for being with us. 
 
So, how do you explain now that Vice President Harris is seen as perhaps the candidate of change? 
 
KAROLINE LEAVITT, NATIONAL PRESS SECRETARY, TRUMP 2024: Well, thank you so much for having me, John.
 
And it is our goal, over the next several weeks, ahead of Election Day, to ensure that voters understand, Kamala Harris is not the candidate of change, nor is she the candidate of the future. Kamala Harris is the vice president of the United States right now. And she is wholly responsible for the failures over the past four years. Kamala Harris said she was proud of Bidenomics, which has ushered the worst inflation crisis in a generation. Kamala Harris was named the border czar and has allowed an open border policy of more than 11 million illegal people into our country that has caused a migrant crime epidemic across our nation as well. 
 
Kamala Harris does not deserve a promotion. She deserves a demotion. And unlike Kamala Harris, President Trump has a strong record in his first term as president, where he secured the border, unleashed the might of our energy industry, ushered peace around this world. And that's our case to make to voters across the country. 
 
BERMAN: There's more domestic energy production right now than there's ever been in U.S. history. And Kamala Harris was not the border czar, she was appointed to deal with the northern triangle.
 
But let me - let me ask you a follow-up to my initial question here. Even if what you say, taking your argument there, if the voters in all these states are seeing the vice president of the candidate - as the candidate of a change, does it tell you that maybe they are beginning to see a Republican nominee who's 78-years-old and been running for president for nine years, is that beginning to have an impact?
 
LEAVITT: Well, just two things on your earlier points. Kamala Harris was named the border czar. She was appointed by Joe Biden in that position. And the truth is, the border has been a complete disaster. Everyone recognizes that. 
 
And energy prices, gasoline prices, are still 50 percent higher today under Kamala Harris than they were under President Trump. 
 
And if you look further and deeper into these polls, if you look at the issues that matter to voters, like immigration, like the economy, like foreign policy, where we've seen war erupt all over this world under Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, voters trust Donald Trump on those issues. They trust him because he, again, has a first-term record to stand on.
 
And you brought up Donald Trump's age, so I do want to mention it. This race is not about age, it's about competence. And President Trump has proven to be a leader who can bring stability back to this world, who can bring peace through this world, who can make America strong again. And that's why voters trust him on the issues that matter. 
 
BERMAN: She was not appointed the border czar. She was appointed to deal with the northern triangle.
 
LEAVITT: She was.
 
BERMAN: You say Donald Trump is the candidate of stability. 
 
LEAVITT: She was, John.
 
BERMAN: You say that Donald Trump was the candidate of stability. Why was Donald Trump, over the last 36 hours, on his social media re- posting slogans from QAnon and re-posting misogynistic, sexist content about Vice President Harris?
 
LEAVITT: Well, look, I don't think your viewers at home are concerned about social media posts. I think they are concerned with the news of the day. And the news of the day is that a Venezuelan illegal immigrant crime gang has taken over a hotel in rural Colorado because of Kamala Harris and Joe Biden's open border policies. The news of the day is that, again, gasoline prices are 50 percent higher today than they were under Donald Trump.
 
BERMAN: Karoline - Karoline - can - can you answer - can you - do you know why - do you know why he posted that? 
 
LEAVITT: The news of the day, as a new mother -
 
BERMAN: Do you know why he reposted that content?
 
LEAVITT: I haven't been able to talk to President Trump yet this morning because he is calling in to media interviews, unlike Kamala Harris, who has been avoiding the press for more than 40 days. And we're excited that CNN finally has the opportunity to question Kamala Harris tonight about her disastrous record. And we hope that Dana Bash - and we're confident that she will - will ask tough questions of Kamala Harris' record because, again, Americans aren't concerned with social media posts and silly memes. They are concerned with the problems that are plaguing them and their families right now. And they need and deserve answers to the questions of Kamala Harris. Does she still support a ban on fracking? Does Kamala Harris still support eliminating cash bail for violent criminals? Does Kamala Harris still support decriminalizing illegal immigration? And again I ask, and I hope CNN will ask Kamala Harris this tonight, does she -
 
BERMAN: Did you -
 
LEAVITT: Why does she believe she deserves a promotion when she has been responsible for the failures of the past four years.
 <br>[09:35:01]
 
BERMAN: Did you ask Dr. Phil - or did you tell Dr. Phil what questions you hoped he would ask before interviewing Donald Trump?
 
LEAVITT: No, we don't have to do that, unlike the Democrats who have proven to give questions to Democratic candidates in debates in past election cycles. 
 
BERMAN: OK. OK. So I want - I will talk about - I will talk about the interview in a second here, but I do want to ask you again, the social media content reposted by the Republican nominee in the last 36 hours. How do you explain it? How do you explain why he is re-posting content from QAnon and this misogynistic content?
 
LEAVITT: Again, I will say, I have not spoken to President Trump about that content this morning, and I don't think Americans are concerned with social media posts. But you said misogynistic. I assume you're also going to say that the posts were demeaning to women. I think what's demeaning to women is what has been allowed to happen over the last four years. I think what's demeaning to women is the fact that Kamala Harris and Joe Biden are allowing an invasion of illegal criminals into our country, many of whom have proven to be a rapists and murderers. I think what's demeaning to women, like Laken Riley and Jocelyn Nungaray and Rachel Morin is the fact that they are no longer with us because of the policies of this administration. And that is what voters and your viewers care about, John. 
 
BERMAN: Well, look, I think the voters can care about a number of things. And when there's content being reposted that uses QAnon slogans and when there are these sexist, misogynistic posts, it's interesting to me that you can't - you're not - you don't think they're bad. You have no problem with them?
 
LEAVITT: I didn't say that. I said that I don't think voters care. 
 
BERMAN: Do you have a problem with them?
 
LEAVITT: I think that voters care about the -
 
BERMAN: Do you care?
 
LEAVITT: I said - I said - I care about what's happening to our country right now. I care about the fact that as a new mother baby formulas is 30 percent higher and costs more than it did under President Trump. I care about the fact that we have a vice president - or vice president today who wants to be the president of the United States, that hasn't sit down for an interview in more than 40 days to explain her positions.
 
BERMAN: And she will be sitting down for an interview today with Dana Bash, along with Governor Tim Walz.
 
And I just wanted our viewers to know also, because you have a history of this, of working the refs here. Obvious, Dana will do a great job, as you know she always does. And we appreciate you being with us this morning. 
 
Karoline Leavitt from the Trump campaign. Thank you. 
 
Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: All right, John, thank you. 
 
This morning, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is making a big request from the Biden administration that he believes could change the path of the war. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:42:15]
 
BERMAN: U.S. markets opened just a few minutes ago, up about 89, 90 points, the Dow is right now, after a strong earnings report from AI chip maker giant Nvidia, and fresh data showing the economy was even stronger in the second quarter than first reported. GDP grew at an annualized rate of 3 percent. That's slightly higher than the 2.8 percent that was first reported a month ago. 
 
As for Nvidia, the company beat expectations again with second quarter revenue up 122 percent compared to a year earlier. Profits from the quarter also more than doubled to nearly 17 billion. Despite that, investigators - sorry, investors - you can see where my mind is - investors were not that impressed and shares fell in afterhours trading.
 
Rahel. 
 
SOLOMON: All right, John, thank you. 
 
New this morning, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says that the incursion into Russia's Kursk region is the first part of Ukraine's victory plan against Russia. It's a four-stage plan that he intends to present to President Joe Biden, as well as Vice President Kamala Harris, and possibly former President Donald Trump next month. 
 
And as Russia launched its third massive aerial attack on Kyiv this week, President Zelenskyy is urging the U.S. to lift restrictions on long-range weapon strikes on Russian territory.
 
Joining me now to discuss is CNN global affairs analyst, and also former defense secretary under President Trump, Mark Esper.
 
Secretary, good to have you. Thanks so much for being here today. 
 
Zelenskyy says that the success of this -
 
MARK ESPER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: Good morning. 
 
SOLOMON: Good morning.
 
Zelenskyy says that the success of this plan largely depends on the U.S. From what we understand, and from what's been released so far. What exactly are they asking for?
 
ESPER: Well, I think the biggest thing he's asking for right now is a change in U.S. policy that is restricting the use of offensive weapons against Russia. Basically, the Biden administration has imposed a policy that has allowed Russia to have sanctuary free from Ukrainian long-range attacks using U.S. weapons but for counter fire. And that was really only a recent change. And so what he's saying is, if you - if I'm going to win this war, at least change its strategic direction, than I've got to be able to strike deep into Russia at targets such as depots and airfields and warehouses and things like that and really hit them when they're -- where it hurts because otherwise Russia is - has been ranging Ukraine now for two-and-a-half years, striking both military and civilian targets. 
 
So, it's - it's a very, very reasonable proposition. And I - I think the Biden administration should be faulted in putting these restrictions on him.
 
SOLOMON: We hear you say it's reasonable. What about likely? I mean what is the likelihood of the U.S. changing its position there?
 
ESPER: I don't know. It's hard to say. There are some rumors that maybe they will change their policy. Again, they did a few months ago when Russia was attacking the northern part of Ukraine from right across the border and the Ukrainians were not able to respond. 
 <br>[09:45:10]
 
But Joe Biden has been very anxious about provoking Putin or crossing a so-called red line. But yet we've seen time after time after time that Putin has backed down. That he's not threatened - has not done anything that would really threaten something significant like the use of tactical nuclear weapons. So, I - look, I - my concern is at this point in time the Biden administration, of history was to assess it right now, it would give Joe Biden high marks for - for bringing the allies together and for the United States supporting Ukraine with - with weapons and material. But they would give him a failing grade with regard to providing Ukraine the weapons it needs when it needs them, and then the caveat that he's put in many cases on the restrictive use of such weapons in the conflict, which has basically tied a hand behind Ukraine's back during this two-and-a-half-year conflict now.
 
SOLOMON: And speaking of politics, I mean we have this new reporting from our Nick Paton Walsh that Zelenskyy is essentially keeping one eye on U.S. politics and watching the election especially closely. In September we know he's meeting with both Biden and Harris, possibly even Trump. Talk to me a little bit about how that is weighing into perhaps what's happening on the ground.
 
ESPER: Sure. Look, it's all connected. Arguably for some time now Ukraine, the conflict, has been at a strategic stalemate with really not much movement along the 600 mile border. Although Russia continues to make - pick up a village here and there and they're zeroing in now on a major logistical hub in Donetsk. So, I think what - what Zelenskyy is trying to do, for a number of reasons, is to change the dynamic. And so he seized the initiative by authorizing this incursion into Kursk, which has been wildly successful. You know, they've seized about 100 settlements, captured 600 Russian soldiers, 500 square miles now occupied. 
 
And what he's done is embarrassed Putin, number one. Number two, he's reinvigorated his own troops, improved morale, and I think has signal to allies that Ukraine can take the fight to Russia. And now he's coming asking for more weapons. 
 
But I think the other one is, to your point now, is he know - he sees the U.S. elections coming up. He wants to be - make sure that Ukraine is in the best possible position should maybe Donald Trump get elected and want to move to some type of conclusion or withdraw some support from Ukraine. But I also think long-term he recognizes that the allies support for this conflict is only going to last so long. I mean over the past couple months, for example, Germany has cut its support to Ukraine by nearly a half in its future budget. So, I think he reads - sees the writing on the wall, is trying to gain leverage by - by occupying Russian ground. And maybe he sees at some point he'll be sitting across the table from the Russians and needs to be able to put something on the table.
 
SOLOMON: And he has called - I mean he said that the plan they're - their plan is calling - he's calling it their victory plan. But he did acknowledge that it may sound ambitious for someone, but it's a very important plan for us.
 
Secretary, do you find it ambitious based on what's been publicly released so far? 
 
ESPER: Well, I haven't seen that much of it, although he's outlined a plan in the past which has called for the complete removal of all Russian forces, the restoration of Ukraine's borders going back to 1992. You know, war crimes trials, et cetera, et cetera. 
 
It's very ambitious. His job is to be ambitious. He has to represent the sovereignty, the will of the Ukrainian people. But sometimes ambition exceeds realism. And so I think, you know, I think he wants to get to a negotiating table at some point in the best possible position. And we should do everything we can to enable that to include removing any restrictions on the use of U.S. weapons and giving him what he needs so that he can gain that leverage and go to the table, negotiating table, with a much stronger hand when he faces off against Putin.
 
SOLOMON: Yes, well, these meetings all happening within the next few weeks or so. We could see sort of how much development comes from them.
 
Secretary Mark Esper, thank you for the time today. 
 
ESPER: Thank you.
 
SOLOMON: John. 
 
BERMAN: All right, prepare to spend even more for your pumpkin spice lattes this season. There is so much wrong with that statement right there. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:53:44]
 
SOLOMON: All right, you wouldn't know it by the temperature is outside, but it is apparently pumpkin spice season. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, it's that special time of year where we voluntarily imbibe pumpkin spice lattes, the coffee that tastes like a candle. And - and I don't mean it tastes like a candle smells. Pumpkin spice lattes tastes like a candle tastes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: So, stores are already rolling out products featuring blends of nutmeg, allspice and cloves, which usually coincides with fall. There is pumpkin flavored beer, yogurt, and even cat litter, in case you're into that sort of thing. According to Nielsen, Americans spend more than $500 million on pumpkin products each year. Krispy Kreme, for its part, has rolled out pumpkin cake donuts. IHOP will soon begin serving pumpkin cheesecake pancakes. And that tall pumpkin spice latte already has your name on it at Starbucks. That popular seasonal coffee could be considered the start of the pumpkin spice movements since its creation in the early 2000s. And it has the price tag to prove it. According to an analysis by money.com, the latte's price has jumped nearly 94 percent since 2005. Obviously, that outpaces inflation. 
 <br>[09:55:02]
 
Overall, prices have only increased by 5 percent in that same time period. In 2005 a grande, 16-ounce, pumpkin spice latte, well, that checked out at about $3.35. But according to average menu prices, that same drink, well, that will now cost you $6.50. And Starbucks does rely heavily on the launch of the pumpkin fall flavor to bring in the big bucks. Ten percent of the chain's overall sales come from seasonal staples. The company has been struggling with sales, and according to Market Watch, could make over $500 million this year on pumpkin spice lattes. Perhaps one reason the company brought the drink back two days earlier than it did last year. 
 
I know what I'm getting you for Christmas. 
 
BERMAN: Yes, pumpkin spice.
 
SOLOMON: Only a pumpkin spice latte.
 
BERMAN: I just don't understand. If you're going to have a coffee, have a coffee. Like -
 
SOLOMON: Listen, I'm with you.
 
BERMAN: You know, eject the caffeine right into my veins. 
 
SOLOMON: Absolutely. The stronger the better. 
 
BERMAN: Yes. And I have to say, all the attention that we, as a society, and the media society, pay to pumpkin spice, we could cure cancer. If we took all the minutes that we spend talking about pumpkin spice.
 
SOLOMON: No, we - we - we need these little - these little treats, John Berman.
 
BERMAN: Well, I don't know.
 
All right, thank you all for joining us. Rahel Solomon, thank you so much for being with us today. 
 
SOLOMON: Good to be with you.
 
BERMAN: This has been CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
CNN NEWSROOM up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)