Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Blinken Heads to Egypt for Talk on Last Leg of Mideast Trip; South Africa to Present Genocide Case Against Israel at International Court of Justice; Haley and DeSantis Clash in CNN Republican Debate; Chris Christie Suspends Presidential Campaign. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired January 11, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Max Foster joining you live from London, just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: South Africa is taking on Israel at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, accusing it of genocide. 
 
RON DESANTIS, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Every candidate needs to earn your vote. Nobody's entitled to your vote and he comes in here every now and then, he does his spiel and then he leaves. I've shown up to all 99 counties because it's important. 
 
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Russia said once they take Ukraine, Poland and the Baltics are next. Those are NATO countries and that puts America at war. 
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE, FORMER U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's clear to me tonight that there isn't a path for me to win the nomination. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo.
 
FOSTER: It's Thursday January 11th, 9 a.m. here in London, 11 a.m. in Cairo, where the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to hold talks in the coming hours as he wraps his world win middle east trip. The tenth and final stop for Blinken will come at the end of a week- long tour aimed at calming tensions in the region. On Wednesday he added a stop in Bahrain following a meeting with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in Ramallah in the West Bank.
 
NOBILO: Meantime, in Israel, a member of the War Cabinet says Hamas is no longer controlling large parts of Gaza. And just a short time ago the Israel Defence Forces claims to have thwarted a terrorist cell by conducting operations in central and southern Gaza. In one video released by the IDF, forces targeted what they said were terrorists carrying weapons as they exited a tunnel shaft. 
 
NOBILO: CNN's Paula Hancocks following developments, joins us now from Abu Dhabi. Quite stark when you look at that map and the amount of control that we think Israel has got now. 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's right, Max. And as they say, they believe that Hamas is not able to be operational anymore in northern Gaza. The focus really has shifted to central and southern Gaza. 
 
And what we're seeing really with the U.S. Secretary of State's visit around the region, he's expected to land in Cairo shortly, is there are a number of very stark messages that he's given and has given to Israeli officials as well. The fact that there has to be more of an avoidance of civilian casualties, that not enough is being done, that there has to be more humanitarian aid allowed into these areas. And also he has been speaking about the potential day after, who will be in control, wanting to try and bolster the Palestinian Authority and Mahmoud Abbas or whoever ends up leading the Palestinian Authority to make sure that they can help govern Gaza as well as the West Bank.
 
But specifically on the humanitarian angle, we have been hearing again dire reports of what has happened within the enclave. We've heard from the World Health Organization saying that the food situation is simply horrific. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TEDROS ADHANOM GHEBREYESUS, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION: The situation is indescribable. Almost 90 percent of the population of Gaza, 1.9 million people, have been displaced and many have been forced to move multiple times. People are standing in line for hours for a small amount of water, which may not be clean or bread, which alone is not sufficiently nutritious. The barrier to delivering humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza is not the capabilities of the U.N., WHO or our partners. The barrier is access. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS: The dehydration, starvation and the worries of a cocktail of diseases, according to the U.N., is what they are looking at in Gaza at this point -- Max and Bianca. 
 
FOSTER: Paula in Abu Dhabi, thank you for that.
 
NOBILO: The International Court of Justice is about to hear a case that could determine the course of the war in Gaza. Starting this hour, South Africa will present its genocide case against Israel. It accuses the Israeli government of trying to, quote, destroy Palestinians in Gaza.
 <br>[04:05:00] FOSTER: And it's asking the court to order Israel to stop its military actions there. Israel's president strongly denies the allegations, calling the case atrocious and preposterous. Israel will present its case on Friday.
 
NOBILO: Melissa Bell is at the Hague for us. Melissa, so the IOC will only issue an opinion here. Is there an expectation of what the result might be? And also, remind us about this affinity between South Africa and the Palestinian cause. 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, we have been speaking here, Bianca, with a South African delegation ahead of this hearing that is just getting under way. A three-hour statement they are going to make this morning to the court just behind me about what they believe the facts of the case are. Their application, 84 pages of it, outlining what they describe as genocide. 
 
Now, to your question, it is a very historic tie and one that goes right to the heart of many South Africans and specifically the ANC government, Bianca. Because when you go back to apartheid times, it was Israel's support at the time for the apartheid government of South Africa, the ANC's liberation struggle and its association -- in the words of Nelson Mandela -- with the Palestinian cause, even at the time. Saying that no South Africans would be free until all Palestinians were, that are at the heart of what so many within the ANC and those leading the South African delegation here today believe that they are here to do. 
 
Now it is an extremely detailed 84-page document that has been submitted to the court by the South Africans. And that will be the basis for what is likely to be the beginning of a three-hour session on their part detailing those allegations.
 
Already, and even ahead of taking the stand on Friday, Israel has dismissed this as a blood libel. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BELL (voice-over): Three months after Israel launched its military campaign targeting Hamas in Gaza, South Africa is taking on Israel at the International Court of Justice in the Hague. Accusing it of genocide and urging the U.N. body to order Israel to stop the war. 
 
RONALD LAMOLA, SOUTH AFRICAN JUSTICE MINISTER: South Africa cannot stand idly and watch when genocide is being committed by the state of Israel in full view of the international community, clear acts that aim to annihilate the population of Palestine.
 
BELL (voice-over): Allegations that will be refuted by Israel when it takes the stand on Friday. 
 
ISAAC HERZOG, ISRAELI PRESIDENT: We will be there at the International Court of Justice and we will present proudly our case of using self- defense under our most inherent right under international humanitarian law. Where we are doing our utmost under extremely complicated circumstances. BELL (voice-over): In its 84-page application to the court, South
 
 Africa accuses Israel of breaching the 1948 Genocide Convention by engaging in acts with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, the Palestinian people, including through killings, the causing of serious bodily and mental harm and other measures.
 
The petition claims that Israel's actions are rooted in what it calls a 75-year-old system of apartheid. It also draws on the rhetoric of Israeli politicians since the war began. 
 
YOAV GALLANT, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER (through translated text): we are fighting human animals and we are acting accordingly.
 
MAJ. GEN, GIORA EILAND, ISRAELI DEFENSE FORCES (RET.): Creates such a huge pressure on Gaza that Gaza will become an area where people cannot live.
 
HERZOG: It's not true, this rhetoric about civilians not aware, not involved, it's absolutely not true. And we will fight until we break their backbone. 
 
BELL (voice-over): U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who met with Israeli and Palestinian leaders this week, dismissed South Africa's case as a distraction.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: We believe the submission against Israel to the International Court of Justice distracts the world from all of these important efforts. And moreover, the charge of genocide is meritless. 
 
BELL (voice-over): The public hearings begin on Thursday, and whilst a ruling on genocide could take years, a possible injunction on the Gaza war that Pretoria has asked the ICJ for could come much sooner.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BELL (on camera): And it is that potential injunction that is at the heart of the hearings that you're going to hear just kicking off here today and tomorrow. The provisional measures, as they're called, Max and Bianca, that South Africa is hoping to get a ruling from the International Court of Justice for, that would call on Israel to suspend its military campaign whilst the substantive question of whether or not genocidal acts are or have been committed can be considered by the court. 
 
South Africa's hope is that the strength of their case is such that the ICJ will rule in their favor relatively quickly. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
But regardless, they say, what the ruling here is, this was an opportunity and a necessity, they say, to get the facts of the war so far in front of the world court, but also in front of world public opinion -- Max and Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Melissa Bell in the Hague for us. Thank you so much. Melissa will be following the story throughout the week. 
 
Now a recent surge in attacks on commercial shipping by Houthi rebels in Yemen has been condemned by the U.N. Security Council.
 
The vote was 11 in favor, zero against, but with four abstentions that included Russia and China. U.S. officials blame Iran for backing and funding the Houthis. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLINKEN: We had the biggest attack, UAVs, missiles, just yesterday. These attacks have been aided and abetted by Iran. 
 
If these attacks continue as they did yesterday, there will be consequences. Again, this represents a clear threat to the interests of countries around the world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: The Houthis claim they're targeting commercial vessels with a connection to Israel and are meant to show solidarity with Palestinians. A senior Houthi leader issued this response to the U.N. resolution. 
 
Quote: The decision that was adopted regarding the security of navigation in the Red Sea is a political game and the United States is the one violating international law.
 
FOSTER: Meanwhile, a British warship is now helping the U.S. rebel the Houthi attacks. According to the U.K. defense minister, the HMS Diamond, a guided missile destroyer, has shot down multiple attack drones from Yemen with no injuries or damage to the ship or the crew. 
 
In Ecuador, prison officials say at least 139 guards and staff are being held hostage by gangs inside five prisons right now as drug gangs wage a war against the government.
 
NOBILO: Ecuador's president says the country is fighting more than 20,000, quote, terrorists after a wave of violence, kidnappings and prison riots stunned the nation. President Daniel Naboa said on Wednesday that he sympathizes with the families of those kidnapped and vowed not to give in to the terrorist groups. 
 
FOSTER: Military and police operations are underway nationwide to root out the gangs behind this week's attacks. The military says it's arrested nearly 330 people belonging to so-called terrorist organizations since Tuesday and recaptured dozens of escaped inmates. The head of the armed forces insists that peace will come but it can't say when. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADMIRAL JAIME VELA, HEAD OF JOINT COMMAND OF ECUADORIAN ARMED FORCES (through translator): I cannot offer that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or in the next 30 days. We will finish and deliver peace to the Ecuadorians. The moment I offer something, I become a slave of offering and I cannot do that. So the only thing I can tell the Ecuadorians is to be patient.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: The government is vowing to catch the notorious gang leader whose escape from prison set off this crisis. Ecuador's president says prison officials who were on duty at the time will be prosecuted and there does seem to be a remarkable level of coordination between inmates in prison for this to occur. 
 
Russia's main opposition leader makes a case before the country's highest court and puts a spotlight on the brutal conditions inside a penal colony in Siberia. We will have a live report on that. 
 
FOSTER: Plus, the race for the White House. Republicans Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis square off on the debate stage just days before the Iowa caucuses.
 
NOBILO: Plus, chaos on Capitol Hill when Hunter Biden unexpectedly crashes a hearing on holding him in contempt of Congress. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: The race for the White House focused on Iowa. With just four days to go until the first of the nation caucuses. And with that, Republicans Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis squared off on the debate stage in Des Moines on Wednesday.
 
NOBILO: Both were critical of front-runner Donald Trump for once again skipping the debate. But they saved their sharpest attacks for each other. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You do not have to choose when it comes to national security. This is about keeping Americans safe. This is about preventing war. This is about keeping our military men and women from having to fight a war. And you only do that when you focus on national security, not telling lies to the American people that they have to choose. That is wrong. That has never been the case.
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL), U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is the U.N. way of thinking. That we are somehow globalist and we have unlimited resources to do. You know, I think here is the problem. You can take the ambassador out of the United Nations, but you can't take the United Nations out of the ambassador. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: We've got more now from CNN's Jeff Zeleny, reporting from Des Moines, Iowa.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: At the first Republican presidential debate of the year and the last debate before voting begins in the 2024 Republican presidential race, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis and former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley finally on stage alone. A one-on-one competition to become the leading alternative to former President Donald Trump. 
 
He was also in Des Moines on Wednesday night, just a few miles away, declining to appear at this debate with his rivals, appearing at a Fox News town hall instead.
 
That allowed DeSantis and Haley for two hours to go back and forth at one another over policies, over their agendas, and even the management of the DeSantis campaign. 
 
HALEY: The best way to tell about a candidate is to see how they run their campaign. He has blown through $150 million. I don't even know how you do that. Through his campaign, he has nothing to show for it. He spent more money on private planes than he has on commercials trying to get Iowans to vote for him. If you can't manage a campaign, how are you going to manage a country? 
 
ZELENY: For his part, DeSantis repeatedly returned fire, raising deep questions about the South Carolina record as governor when Haley served two terms as governor of South Carolina. But he also turned his focus to former President Donald Trump, continuing where he's left off on the campaign trail, questioning the former President's stance on abortion, questioning his ability to serve and be elected. Also said this about Donald Trump.
 
DESANTIS: Every candidate needs to earn your vote. Nobody's entitled to your vote. And he comes in here every now and then, he does his spiel, and then he leaves.
 
I've shown up to all 99 counties because it's important. You're a servant of the people. You are not a ruler over the people. And that's the type of president that I will be for you. 
 
ZELENY: So now with four days before the Iowa caucuses start the voting in this 2024 Republican presidential primary. There is no question, Haley and DeSantis are essentially in each other's way. They are vying to be the leading alternative to Donald Trump, who of course has held a commanding lead over this race.
 
But we are about to find out if all the polls that have shown that Trump is in the lead are actually matching the reality of voter sentiment. Again, the Iowa caucuses, Monday night, January 15th. A caucus is a series of town meetings all across Iowa. So some 1,600 or so. All voters have to convene at the same time, 7 p.m. in their neighborhood locations. 
 
One question is the weather. Iowa forecasters are calling for record low temperatures, dangerously low, below zero Fahrenheit, perhaps some 15 degrees below zero. That is a question of organization and ground game. Can the campaigns get their supporters out? But for now, at least, as the dust settles from this debate, DeSantis
 
 and Haley are going out to make their final pitches on undecided voters and perhaps to try and peel away some of those Trump supporters. 
 
Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Des Moines.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Most of CNN's political analysts agreed that Donald Trump, who once again skipped the debate, was the night's big winner. Here is senior editor at the "Atlantic," Ron Brownstein and Republican strategist Alice Stewart. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: They kind of lost sight of the real issue, which is that they are both running against someone who is beating them by, what, 30 points in Iowa and 40 points nationally.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
But there were moments where they delineated their differences with Trump more than they have in the past. DeSantis running at him from the right consistently, basically trying to make what I think is, you know, squeezing through the eye of a needle argument that Trump can't be trusted to deliver the MAGA agenda. 
 
And Haley, I thought, was more critical of his behavior after the election than we've seen from her before. 
 
ALICE STEWART, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think Nikki Haley is strong on foreign policy. She's got the right position now on abortion moving forward. And she's strong on the moral character issue and holding Trump for being chaos and drama. 
 
But I do think DeSantis came across a little bit better in this debate tonight simply because he was able to focus more on issues that appeal to the people of Iowa.
 
His position on the life issue resonates more with people of Iowa and the positions he had on immigration and as well as education and parental involvement in education. Those are issues that resonate with the American people. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Just a few hours before the debate, a surprise announcement from former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE, FORMER U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's clear to me tonight that there isn't a path for me to win the nomination, which is why I'm suspending my campaign tonight for President of the United States. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Christie focused his campaign on the early voting state of New Hampshire. He's not endorsed any other candidate but promised to make sure he wouldn't enable Donald Trump to win re-election.
 
More now from CNN's Omar Jimenez. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It came as a surprise to many of his voters and many across the country who were following this race. Chris Christie officially suspending his campaign for President.
 
And it comes amid some polling, including from CNN, that showed there was a widening gap between he and former President Trump, especially here in New Hampshire, and a gap that was closing when it came to candidates like Nikki Haley, again, especially here in New Hampshire. 
 
Now, it was less than 24 hours before this announcement there were comments made on CNN by New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu insinuating there were discussions being had about Christie ending his campaign for president. But at the time, the Christie campaign pushed back on that pretty forcefully, saying that those comments were misinformed.
 
Even later on in that particular night, Christie himself calling Governor Sununu a liar. Then, less than 24 hours later, Christie comes out and officially suspends his campaign in his signature town hall format. It was how he launched his campaign last summer. It became, again, a staple of how he ran this campaign. And it is now how he ends his campaign. 
 
He also, as part of his speech, talked about the stakes of this particular race, not just when he was in it, but about what lies ahead, and particularly when it comes to Donald Trump. Take a listen. 
 
CHRISTIE: Imagine just for a moment if 9-11 had happened with Donald Trump behind the desk. The first thing he would have done was run to the bunker to protect himself. He would have put himself first before this country. And anyone who is unwilling to say that he is unfit to be president of the United States is unfit themselves. 
 
JIMENEZ: Now, of course, the question is, what happens next year? Well, the Christie campaign told me they're going to be dark for the next few days. They don't have any plans to announce any sort of endorsement or anything like that. But just before this announcement, Christie was caught on a hot mic saying that Nikki Haley would be smoked, is going to get smoked, essentially, by Donald Trump, that she really doesn't have a chance against him when it comes to the election. 
 
Now, he was talking to the head of his New Hampshire campaign, and that was really just minutes before he was going out to make this official announcement, and is in some ways an indication of where their thinking is at this point, that they don't have any plans to imminently announce an endorsement.
 
But it was just last month I was sitting down with Chris Christie, and he told me that come January 23rd, which is primary day here in New Hampshire, that he's going to be shaking hands with voters until the polls close, and that he's going to do very well in New Hampshire. We now know that's no longer going to be the reality as he officially announces he's suspending his campaign. 
 
Omar Jimenez, CNN, Wyndham, New Hampshire.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: You heard Omar there talk about Chris Christie being caught on an open mic before his town hall. Take a listen to his comments. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTIE: She's going to get smoked, and you and I both know it. She's not up to this. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's still 20 points behind Trump in New Hampshire, right? 
 
CHRISTIE: Yes. Oh, yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And he's still going to carry on, right? 
 
CHRISTIE: Yes. I talked to -- DeSantis called me, petrified that I would -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's probably getting out of it after Iowa. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: So interesting, isn't it? 
 
NOBILO: I wanted to continue the script.
 
FOSTER: Yes, I mean, we learn, don't we, very early on, never speak in front of a microphone, let alone a live mic. 
 
Yes. So interesting, isn't it? 
 
NOBILO: I wanted to continue the script.
 
FOSTER: Yes, I mean, we learn, don't we, very early on, never speak in front of a microphone, let alone a live mic. 
 
NOBILO: Yes. Well, to be honest, we both do still do that.
 
FOSTER: Yes. Despite Christie's prediction on Nikki Haley, a new CNN poll finds Haley has trimmed Donald Trump's lead in New Hampshire to single digits. She was also polling 17 percentage points higher than U.S. President Joe Biden in a hypothetical general election match-up in a "Wall Street Journal" poll late last year. Trump led Mr. Biden by just four points in that same poll. As for that town hall Trump held in Des Moines Wednesday, he faced a
 
 friendly crowd and used the time to rehash some of his usual false narratives on immigration, abortion and Hunter Biden. 
 
NOBILO: Trump also reacted to Chris Christie's hot mic moment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Chris Christie was in and he got a hot mic I heard about. I thought actually the biggest story wasn't the fact that he dropped out. Nobody cared too much about that.
 
But he had a hot mic where he was talking to somebody about the weather and he happened to say that she doesn't have what it takes. She'll be creamed in the -- in the election. And I mean, I know her very well and I happen to believe that Chris Christie is right. That's one of the few things he's been right about, actually. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If you are the nominee, which I know you expect to be, who would be in the running for vice president? 
 
TRUMP: Well, I can't tell you that, really. I mean, I know who it's going to be.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Give us a hint. 
 
TRUMP: I'll give you -- we'll do another show sometime. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, what about any of the people who you've run against? Would you be open to mending fences with any of them? 
 
TRUMP: Oh, sure, I will. I will. I've already started to like Christie better. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Donald Trump is expected to be in a New York courtroom in the day ahead for closing arguments in his $370 million civil fraud trial.
 
FOSTER: But the judge says since he didn't agree to follow the court's rules, he won't be allowed to speak. CNN's Katelyn Polantz has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Donald Trump's going to be going to the courthouse on Thursday in New York for the final day of his civil fraud trial.
 
So that's where the New York attorney general has accused him and his businesses of defrauding the state by their business practices, by overinflating their worth as they were getting bank loans. And in this final day, it is the closing arguments. Trump wanted to speak, but the judge said he's not going to be able to because he wasn't willing to comply with the rules of the court.
 
The rules that the judge was trying to get him or get at least an answer out of his attorneys on, on Wednesday, it just didn't happen. 
 
So what will happen in these closing arguments, is the New York attorney general is going to be telling the judge that they are seeking $370 million for the ill-gotten gains, those are their words, from Donald Trump and his business empire, and that also Trump should be barred from doing business in the state of New York. 
 
Trump's side will probably, very likely, do much of what they did in their previous parts of this trial, and that has included attacking the judge and saying that this is unfair and this is not something that they agree with, these findings. But the judge has already found that Trump and his business empire, they are liable. He's just assessing the consequences at this point and will make that determination, announce it at a later date. 
 
But what happened in the final hours before these closing arguments, that was a bit of drama that Trump is now pointing to the judge at creating, but it was a situation where his lawyers very, very abnormally told the judge that Trump himself wanted to address the court in his closing arguments. That isn't typical at all.
 
The judge said, OK, fine, but you're going to have to follow the rules of the court, you're not going to be able to introduce more evidence, speak about things that are irrelevant to this case, or give a campaign speech. And gave them a deadline to confirm that Trump would do this and would comply with the court's rules and determinations as of Wednesday at noon, and Trump's team never responded. 
 
And so, the judge was quite clear, Donald Trump will not be speaking in court on Thursday. That doesn't mean, though, he won't take the opportunity to speak to cameras as he heads into and out of that courthouse. 
 
Katelyn Polantz, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: So the audio on the hot mic of Chris Christie cuts out as he's saying that DeSantis was petrified that dot, dot, dot. I wonder if he was going to say that Chris Christie would endorse Nikki Haley. That makes sense in the run of the transcript. You never know. 
 
FOSTER: That would have an effect, wouldn't it, at this point? He's got a lot of support, despite the fact he fell out. 
 
Coming up, Ukraine's president says his allies shouldn't wait any longer to send military aid, while he says time is critical.
 
NOBILO: Plus, Russia's main opposition leader starts a campaign from behind bars and takes it all the way to the country's Supreme Court. We'll have a live report on that for you.
 <br>[04:30:00]