Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Ex-Trump Aides Plead Not Guilty In AZ Election Interference Cases; Rep. Mike Waltz (R-FL) Discusses Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers Recreating D-Day Parachute Jump In Normandy; Supreme Court Justices Disclose Gifts Received In 2023; Pat Sajak's Last "Wheel Of Fortune" Broadcast Airs Tonight. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired June 07, 2024 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:30:39]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Two former top aides in the Trump White House have just been arraigned in Arizona. 
 
We're talking about former chief of staff, Mark Meadows, and former campaign aide, Mike Roman. They're among 18 Trump allies accused of plotting to overturn the state's 2020 election results. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: We have CNN's Zachary Cohen who is joining us now with more details on this. 
 
What did they say in court today? 
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yes, guys, there were about 15 or so people who are at the Maricopa County courthouse today to have their first appearances and put in their pleas. 
 
One of them just happened to be the former White House chief of staff who is criminally charged with trying to overturn a presidential election. 
 
And so Mark Meadows and Mike Roman, a former Trump campaign aide, they both entered not guilty pleas today. They are facing nine felonies each. One of conspiracy and multiple counts for fraudulent schemes and forgery. 
 
And look, they both appeared on camera. They were virtual. There were people in the courtroom who were wearing the orange jumpsuits because they had to be there in person. Meadows and Roman both got the luxury of being able to come virtually. 
 
But we did get to see them enter their pleas live. Take a watch at what happened when they did.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Yes, Your Honor, we do enter a plea of not guilty. UNIDENTIFIED JUDGE: All right, then.
 
UNIDENTIFIED DEFENSE ATTORNEY: And then we'll obviously waive the reading of the indictment. And enter our plea of have not guilty.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COHEN: So it is worth noting that that is the former White House chief of staff pleading not guilty to felony crimes in the state of Arizona. 
 
And look, we've seen them do this before. We saw Mark Meadows take a mug shot in the state of Georgia when he was indicted there, and he had to turn himself in. 
 
We'll similarly see him take a mug shot in Arizona as well. That's the next step in his processing. He'll be fingerprinted just like any other criminal defendant. 
 
But look, there's about 18 other -- or 18 total people that are charged in this indictment, in this the alleged scheme to overturn the 2020 election results. We know that there's similar investigations in other states.
 
But really, this one in Arizona is a more recent version. It raised the question about how long this will take to prosecute it? Will Mark Meadows ever see trial? Will Mike Roman ever see trial? That remains to be seen.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. Open questions that we won't have answers to for a minute.
 
Zach Cohen, thanks very much.
 
KEILAR: A bipartisan group of American lawmakers commemorated D-Day by recreating the daring parachute jump that U.S. troops made into Normandy 80 years ago. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(SHOUTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: The jump was organized by Florida Republican Congressman Michael Waltz, a former Green Beret, and Jason Crow, a Democratic Congressman from Colorado, who was a former Army Ranger. 
 
The nine other lawmakers -- eight other lawmakers, I should say, who took part are also veterans.
 
Congressman Waltz is with us now, joining us from a field there in France.
 
You're still in the World War II uniform that you were wearing when you made the jump. Tell us how it went. REP. MIKE WALTZ (R-FL): Well, I'm happy to report all the members of
 
 Congress will return to D.C. safely. No -- no injuries. And I think Speaker Johnson will be especially relieved the majority is still secure. 
 
But look, in all seriousness, what a way to honor our forefathers, our veterans who came together in such a historic way to literally liberate Europe and save the world from the tyranny of Nazi Germany. 
 
As a Green Beret and a special operator to jump out of a World War II 81-year-old aircraft over Normandy, France, in the uniform of our forefathers, in my case, the Office of Strategic Services, the forebears of the CIA, was just an honor. It's -- it's hard to describe.
 
KEILAR: Yes, I mean, this is the kind of thing that has inspired so many people to join the armed forces. And I think recreating it must have been just amazing. 
 
I am going to ask you about the preservation of the majority here in a second. 
 
But first I want to ask you about the very meaningful stuff of this day. You know, this may be the last year where you have these living D-Day participants. 
 
I know you did this for the 75th. Now, this was the 80th. But this may really be the last anniversary where these living D-Day participants --
 
WALTZ: That's right.
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
KEILAR: -- are there. That must have made it so much more meaningful. 
 
WALTZ: No, it is. The average age was 101 of the World War II veterans that made the trip. The youngest, 96, the oldest, 107. And these heroes were so humble.
 
But to be able to spend a little bit of time with them, to thank them, to keep their story alive, I mean, that's the -- I think the charge of my generation of veterans and then to pass it on to the next generation. 
 
But, Brianna, it -- for those who haven't had the -- really the chance to come to Normandy -- and I would encourage everyone to do so -- what you can appreciate is the gratitude of the French people here. There are banners in every village. "Thank you, America. Thank you for our freedom. Welcome to our liberators." 
 
There's little kids running around with T-shirts with American flags and pictures of Ike and Paton and General Bradley. They're French kids, not the American kids of reenactors. And that's just something that's -- that's hard to describe. But, you know, every one of the people that are out at these the
 
 parades, almost every one of the ones walking up and shaking the hands of these World War II veterans are French. You're seeing and hearing more "merci" than you are "thank you." 
 
And that is palpable. It is -- its just truly -- it's truly heartwarming. I wish I could bring every high school graduating class from the United States here to see this.
 
KEILAR: Yes. I mean, Emmanuel Macron got emotional. To your point, I think it was in the same vein of that. 
 
I do want to note, early on in the Ukraine war, you went to Kyiv. You were part of a bipartisan group of lawmakers who met with President Zelenskyy. And there are many people who are making a parallel between that war and D-Day and World War II as President Biden did today in the speech that he gave.
 
How do you see that parallel? 
 
WALTZ: Well, I think there -- obviously, there are many. We had to stop tyranny that was on the march with Putin. 
 
But I also think, frankly, that President Biden perhaps missed an opportunity to -- kind of a call to action to our European allies.
 
White the frontline European allies, for example, in Poland and the Baltics, have certainly stepped up in a huge way. The fact that only 11 out of the 31 NATO allies are meeting the bare minimum of 2 percent of their GDP, I think it's incredibly alarming. 
 
I'm talking the big economies of France and Germany and Italy. And we can be friends and allies but have tough conversations.
 
From the U.S. perspective, we literally just can't afford it, to subsidize European defense any longer with the growing threat of China, with the recruiting crisis, with a readiness crisis in our own military. 
 
So I would have loved to have seen more of that in addition to celebrating, obviously, our forefathers and their achievements in liberating Europe.
 
KEILAR: I actually lost some of my audio there, unfortunately, Congressman, so I can only hear about half of what you said, full disclosure, but I -- oh, hear you now. 
 
So final question to you, which I want to ask you. 
 
WALTZ: Sure.
 
KEILAR: You mentioned that the majority is preserved. Olivia Beavers, at "Politico," reported that there was some concern, which I think is what you were referring to there.
 
I mean, was that serious concern or was that kind of joking? And what do you say to people who maybe aren't as used to jumping out of planes as you guys?
 
WALTZ: Well, I think -- I think it was in jest. But maybe with a little -- with a little kernel of concern. I told the speaker that the airplanes are vintage from World War II. The uniforms are vintage. But the parachutes were new, so don't worry. 
 
And it was it was bipartisan, so we were -- we were sharing the risk, but really sharing the honor. And just walking in their boots was something that we will always remember. 
 
And it's important for us to come together. You know, in World War II and in combat, nobody cares about black, white, brown, Republican, Democrat. You know, we're just all Americans.
 
And in this day, that's what we were. We were Americans celebrating our freedom, and that were willing to sacrifice ourselves for other people's freedoms and for the notion of liberty.
 
KEILAR: Well, it is great to see you all there together on such a huge commemoration.
 
Sir, thanks for being with us. We appreciate it. 
 
WALTZ: Absolutely. Airborne.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: Indeed.
 <br>[14:39:47]
 
All right, still ahead, big money flowing at the nation's highest court. Justices have filed their financial disclosure forms. What we're learning about six-figure book deals and tickets to Beyonce.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: We're learning new details about some of the major payments and gifts received by members of the nation's highest court, and it includes everything from pricey artwork to six-figure book deals. 
 
KEILAR: We have CNN's senior Supreme Court analyst, Joan Biskupic, joining us in the studio with more details on this. 
 
All right, what else are you learning from these annual financial disclosures? 
 
JOAN BISKUPIC, CNN SENIOR SUPREME COURT ANALYST: Yes, this is the best day of the year where we at least find out some of this stuff where they have to -- they have to record their financial disclosure from the previous year. 
 <br>[14:45:01]
 
And first of all, Justice Clarence Thomas has kind of caught up with something from 2019. You'll probably remember that "ProPublica" did a very strong
 
 investigative report on many trips that he had taken, including ones that had been secret. And two from 2019 to Bali and to a very fancy men's-only club in California, the Bohemian Grove. 
 
And on the dime of Harlan Crow, a wealthy businessman who has contributed a lot to conservative causes. So those, Clarence Thomas caught up with, on this report, saying he had inadvertently taken them off the last one or not put them on the last one, the one that he should have put it on in 2020. 
 
But then also, the theme through most of these disclosures is their writing books as much as they're writing opinions. 
 
Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson has a memoir coming out that we already knew was coming out but in September. It's called "Lovely One," the story of her life.
 
But her initial signing money from her publisher was close to $900,000 and that won't be all. She'll get more through --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BISKUPIC: Yes, through publication of this. So she got $900,000.
 
And for the first time we see any report of Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Now writing a book and he got $340,000 in his for his initial installment, which we have no idea when that will be published. 
 
And then Justice Sotomayor, who's done many books before, she had some royalties there.
 
And Neil Gorsuch, who has a book coming out in August on kind of this anti-regulatory themes that are very strong for him. He collected another $250,000. 
 
KEILAR: I wonder if Kavanaugh is going to look at Ketanji Brown.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: I should have held out for more. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. Two things caught my attention. First, Joan describing this as the best day of the year. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BISKUPIC: No, it's not, no. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BISKUPIC: I just wanted to make sure you guys know, the best day of the year comes at the end of June, when they finally finish -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: -- break.
 
BISKUPIC: I know. I love that. You know, it's like Christmas. Yes. 
 
SANCHEZ: Quickly, the second thing was there was a gift involving Beyonce.
 
BISKUPIC: Right. OK, our newest justice, Ketanji Brown Jackson, who happens to be the first African-American justice, last year, we found out that Oprah had given her a huge floral arrangement, congratulating. 
 
And this time, we've found out that Beyonce has gave her four concert tickets totaling close to $4,000. 
 
Now, we don't know when she went. We don't know who she gave the other three tickets to. We don't know what was played. We don't know anything yet. But "Billboard," I think is on it.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. Investigative reporting to do.
 
BISKUPIC: Right. 
 
SANCHEZ: Joan Biskupic, thanks so much.
 
BISKUPIC: Sure, thanks. 
 
KEILAR: And still ahead, who will solve his final puzzle? Pat Sajak about to take one final spin as host of "Wheel of Fortune." 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:52:14]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Pat Sajak.
 
PAT SAJAK, HOST, "WHEEL OF FORTUNE": Hello, everyone. Welcome to "Wheel of Fortune. Please do not adjust your sets at home. (INAUDIBLE) has not shrunk. A lot of people are playing with their vertical hold right now.
 
As Jack mentioned, my name is Pat Sajak and I've been fortunate enough to wander onto the set of a very successful program, has been for a long time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: That was the first time the world was introduced to Pat Sajak as the host of "Wheel of Fortune" back in 1981. He's since spent the last 40 years with, maybe the greatest job ever?
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, it's a pretty sweet gig. Tonight, though, it all comes to an end. Pat Sajak selling his final vowel. It's going to be his very last episode out of some 8,000 that he's hosted over the decades.
 
Let's bring it in CNN's Lisa Respers France.
 
Lisa, what are we expecting for this final show? I imagine there's going to be some kind of tribute.
 
LISA RESPERS FRANCE, CNN REPORTER: Yes, we imagine that there will be. But we've already had one. Vanna White gave a very emotional tribute to her favorite colleague. 
 
Let's take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VANNA WHITE, CO-HOST, "WHEEL OF FORTUNE": What an incredible and unforgettable journey we've had and I've enjoyed every minute of it with you.
 
As this chapter of our lives is coming to an end, I know you'll still be close by. You're like a brother to me. And I consider you a true lifelong friend, who I will always adore. I love you, Pat."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FRANCE: It sounds like she bought an "E" for emotional.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
FRANCE: Because it was just -- it was so lovely. And she speaks for a lot of people. 
 
I mean, keep in mind this, this show has been on -- we've watched Pat Sajak through seven presidents, wars. It's just been incredible. 
 
So we're expecting that for his final show, we already know, because they released a video, that he pays tribute to the audience. He thanks everyone for allowing them to come to their homes, into his home. 
 
He talks about how it's been a safe space. He wanted it to be a safe space where there was no politics. And he mentioned how children learn how to spell via the shelves, some people learned how to speak English.
 
And it truly has been an incredible ride for so many of us. And so many people grew up with the show. I mean, you just don't have TV like this anymore. 
 
KEILAR: Yes. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
KEILAR: No, this gives me, like, nostalgia for my childhood. SANCHEZ: Right.
 
KEILAR: It was just always on.
 
OK, it's hard to imagine, Lisa, the show without Pat Sajak. But the show isn't ending, so what's next? 
 
FRANCE: What's next is the hardest working man in show business is taking over. Ryan Seacrest is going to be the host. Vanna will still be with us, so she'll still be turning the letters.
 
And people are excited to see if he's going to make it his own, and if he does, how it's going to be. Because people are so used to Pat Sajak. But Ryan Seacrest is Ryan Seacrest. Who doesn't love him? 
 <br>[14:55:05]
 
SANCHEZ: Is there a job at Ryan Seacrest doesn't have?
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SANCHEZ: Lisa Respers France, thank you so much for that. 
 
In honor of Pat Sajak, we have a few extra minutes here at the end of the show. Our producers have made up a puzzle for us. I should say at the end of the hour.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: Don't go anywhere. We've got another hour straight ahead. 
 
The category for this clue is travel. And we've been given the letters R, T, N and E. There's not an S up there. The producer said R, S, T, but there's not an S up there. Yes.
 
So, Brianna, what's your guess? Where does the S go -
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: -- Michelle? Oh, there is no S. There isn't one.
 
OK, travel. 
 
SANCHEZ: I feel like this is embarrassing because I'm stumped. 
 
KEILAR: Can we get some more letters? That's it?
 
SANCHEZ: Pack your patience. Pack your patience.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: That's your favorite.
 
(LAUGHTER) SANCHEZ: Wherever --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: That's his favorite saying.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SANCHEZ: Wherever Pete Muntean is now, he's grinding his teeth. He hates that cliche. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: The next puzzle in the category, is a phrase? That's the next category, right? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
KEILAR: No.
 
SANCHEZ: Next category is a phrase. Do we have one more? 
 
KEILAR: All right.
 
SANCHEZ: Here it is.
 
KEILAR: Come on. Come on. 
 
Oh! 
 
SANCHEZ: Our producers --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: -- treat us like punching bags sometimes. We thank them. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SANCHEZ: Anyway, we thank you for watching. We'll be back after a quick break. Stay with us.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: That was good.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)