Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Tensions Flare Between Israel and Hezbollah After A Day Of Cross- Border Attacks; Netanyahu Pulls Out Of Hostage Talks In Cairo; Ukraine Claims To Destroying A Russian Warship; U.S. Navy Increases Patrols In Response To Strikes By Houthis; Foreign Aid Bill Requests Met With Resistance From House Speaker; Prabowo Lead In Unofficial Vote Tally For Indonesian Election; First Hindu Temple In Abu Dhabi Dedicated By Indian Prime Minister Modi; Hurricane In Eastern Canada Reveals A Shipwreck; Private Firm Tries 1st U.S. Lunar Landing Since 1972. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired February 14, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:36] 
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: A very warm welcome to the show everyone, I'm Bianna Golodryga in for Isa Soares. Tonight, tensions flare 
 
 between Israel and Hezbollah and Lebanon after a day of deadly cross-border attacks. Then anger and frustration in Israel as Prime Minister Benjamin 
 
 Netanyahu says his negotiators will not be re-entering talks with Hamas in Cairo. 
 
Plus, a major military success for Ukraine as it destroys a Russian warship in the Black Sea. All this and much more ahead. We begin with growing fears 
 
 of a full-blown conflict between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon after an escalation and deadly cross-border attacks. 
 
Israel's military says a soldier was killed by rocket fire on an army base in northern Israel today. It says at least, eight other people were injured 
 
 in the attack on the city of Safed. Hezbollah has not claimed responsibility. But Israel launched a wave of airstrikes against Hezbollah 
 
 targets across Lebanon in response. Lebanese sources tell "Reuters" and other news outlets that four people were killed, including two children.  
 
There's also deepening concern today about the humanitarian situation in Gaza. Panic is soaring in Rafah where more than a million Palestinians are 
 
 seeking refuge. Many say they don't know whether to stay and risk death as Israel threatens a ground offensive or to return to what's left of their 
 
 hometowns and face a further risk of starvation. The head of the World Health Organization tells CNN that a ceasefire is needed now. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
TEDROS ADHANOM GHEBREYESUS, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION: As you know, more than 28,000 deaths now and more than 70 percent are women 
 
 and children. That alone is enough to stop the war. Because those who are dying are the wrong people and who haven't done anything to bring this 
 
 problem. So, the best solution for this is to find a political solution.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA: So, let's bring in Nic Robertson in Tel Aviv and Nada Bashir in Cairo. Nic, to you first. As fighting intensifies in northern Israel, the 
 
 U.S. today has once again called for diplomacy. Is there any sense that a diplomatic solution can be reached given the escalation we continue to see 
 
 between these two sides?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: I think the hopes were raised a little bit last week when the U.S. interlocutor and the French as 
 
 well have -- seemed to have got some understanding from the Lebanese and from the Israeli government as well about the possibility of potential off-
 
 ramps. 
 
But I don't think we're there, and the escalation that we've seen today over the past 24 hours, strikes in Qiryat Shemona late last night, the IDF 
 
 responding, Israeli Air Force striking a couple of targets inside of Lebanon late yesterday and then today, Hezbollah, though, they haven't 
 
 claimed striking this important military base, killing a soldier, seriously injuring reservists, injuring several other people in that -- in the town 
 
 of Tzfat. 
 
And the ID -- and the Israeli Air Force responding, targeting five different Hezbollah sites, command and control. They described those sites 
 
 as being -- it has that -- the potential to grow from there. And I think where we're at, at the moment is the ball in the sort of military tit-for-
 
 tat terms, is in Hezbollah's court. 
 
But the diplomacy that's been going on over the past few weeks is hoping to head that off, but I think every time you sort of get to a small climax in 
 
 the exchanges as we've witnessed over the past 24 hours, it begs the question, is that diplomacy going to -- going to win the day?
 
And certainly, the talk from the head of the -- no, with the chief of staff of Israel's military, General Hezi Levi, talked about, you know, a long 
 
 operation in the north of more to come. This is -- this is not the end of it. So, this is posturing, yes, would there be an intent to follow through 
 
 if necessary? Absolutely. 
 
Yes, but the language very much feels like posturing and creating a very firm -- a very firm knowledge in the minds of Hezbollah commander, said if 
 
 they -- if they upped the ante, Israel will do the same. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, Israel has long said that if diplomacy can't simmer the fighting, that Israel is willing and able to open yet a second front there 
 
 in northern Israel and its fight with Hezbollah.   
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
But that doesn't mean the fighting is anywhere near over in Gaza. And Nada, as warnings from allies continue against a raid into Rafah without any 
 
 provisions for civilians, we hear Prime Minister Netanyahu just again reiterating that Israel will press ahead after allowing civilians to vacate 
 
 the area in southern Gaza. How is this all being received?  
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, look, we have seen widespread criticism from members of the international community from some of Israel's allies as 
 
 well as, of course, international aid organizations on the United Nations. There are real fears around the impact that a ground operation by the 
 
 Israeli military could have on civilian life in Rafah. 
 
As we know, some 1.5 million people according to the United Nations are now concentrated in the southern city. Many of them have been displaced a 
 
 number of times already, they were ordered to move south for their safety and protection. But this is an area now that could not only see airstrikes 
 
 as it has done over the last couple of weeks, but also now see a fierce ground operation. 
 
Now, as you mentioned, Bianna, the Israeli Prime Minister has ordered and directed the Israeli military to prepare for what is being described as a 
 
 mass evacuation of civilians from the city. But at this stage, no military proposal has been presented just yet, we have little to no detail as to 
 
 where exactly civilians are expected to be evacuated to. 
 
And what we have seen on the ground and what we've been hearing from our colleagues on the ground in Rafah, is that many civilians are now choosing 
 
 to flee the city, moving back further north into parts of central Gaza that they had previously evacuated. And of course, this is an area that is 
 
 almost entirely destroyed after more than four months of war and airstrikes. 
 
We've seen civilians -- we've heard from Israelis who have been moving back up to areas like Masada to Andel Labella(ph) which have come under heavy 
 
 bombardment. There was a real sense of fear amongst civilians in Rafah over what is to come now.
 
Of course, U.S. President Joe Biden has said that while the U.S. is not completely opposed to an operation in Rafah, if indeed this is focused on 
 
 targeting Hamas infrastructure, it cannot and will not support that operation unless there is a credible and executable plan for the protection 
 
 and safe movement of the civilians. 
 
We have just in the last few heard from the French President Emmanuel Macron, warning against this operation, saying that it would, in his words 
 
 constitute a violation of international humanitarian law and could have severe consequences for the region more broadly. 
 
And of course, there are fears that addition to the situation that civilians will face on the ground, and of course, the real fears of 
 
 bloodshed on the ground heard from the U.N.'s humanitarian chief Martin Griffiths, warning that this could lead to a slaughter in his words, in 
 
 Rafah. 
 
But there are fears about the ramifications this will have more broadly in the region. This has been a key feature of discussions between regional 
 
 leaders, and of course, in those negotiations in Cairo that Nic was just mentioning there. 
 
There are concerns that if we do indeed see a ground operation take place, that could put any sort of  negotiations around a prolonged truce in 
 
 jeopardy. Bianna?  
 
GOLODRYGA: And Nic, that does raise questions internally within Israel about when and if this incursion would take place, because yes, we hear the 
 
 constant threats of one from Prime Minister Netanyahu. But you also read reports that the military from at least their preparations don't look like 
 
 they're ready to go in any time soon. How is this all being interpreted within Israel itself?  
 
ROBERTSON: You know, and there's the movement of the families of hostages who are saying it's time for the government to cut a deal. I think what 
 
 we're hearing from the prime minister hear sounds very much like intense negotiation tactics, if you will, putting an extreme amount of pressure on 
 
 Hamas leadership. 
 
Hamas leadership, the IDF believes is holed up in Rafah, the last sort of bastion for them to care and place -- to keep the hostages as well. So, at 
 
 a military -- in military terms, the military is still engaged in Khan Yunis, that's been going on longer than expected because of the complexity 
 
 of the tunnel system there. 
 
It's likely what the IDF would face inside of Rafah as well. They do need to rest. Some of the troops, some of the time. And here we've got a hint to 
 
 that from General Hezi Levi, the IDF Chief of Staff, just last night speaking at length about it, saying it's a long fight. 
 
So, on the one hand, the military is tied up, but the military's ethos, the way that it works, the way that it thinks about itself, the way that it 
 
 thinks of its job of protecting the population here is to carry out the orders the government gives it. 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
And if the orders come that you are to go into Rafah and the prime minister said, he wants the IDF to tell him a plan to keep the civilians safe and 
 
 evacuate them before he gives that order. But if that order comes, they're going to do their best to go ahead with it however stretched they might 
 
 find their resources are on the ground or tied up in other places. 
 
They'll just have to reprioritize. But at the moment, because of these negotiations that have been taking place over the hostage release, it feels 
 
 very much like the -- Prime Minister Netanyahu is withholding ground that he could give at the negotiating table, withholding that, at the same time 
 
 keeping up the verbal pressure on the Hamas leadership, saying I am going to come into Rafah. 
 
It's on you to change your position, not me to change mine. You give in to my demands for what I want in return for the -- for the release of the 
 
 hostages.  
 
GOLODRYGA: Of course, we just saw a few days ago, the release of only the second and third hostage, successful release and rescue of hostages there 
 
 in Rafah, though, the two would be separated. The issues, they incursion would be something different. Obviously, this rescue, we hear reports had 
 
 been in the works and planned for quite a while. Nic Robertson and Nada Bashir, thank you so much. 
 
Well, the families of Israeli hostages are criticizing a decision by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to stay away for now from truce talks in Cairo. 
 
 They call it a death sentence for their loved ones and are organizing a protest tomorrow in Tel Aviv. Prime Minister Netanyahu says Hamas must 
 
 change its position on a hostage deal for talks to continue. 
 
Again, insisting that Israel will not give in to what he calls their delusional demands. Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is also 
 
 urging Hamas to quickly reach a deal to spare the Palestinian people from catastrophe. His Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki accuses Mr. Netanyahu of 
 
 not negotiating in good faith and an attempt to stay in power.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
RIYAD AL-MALIKI, FOREIGN MINISTER, PALESTINE: We are looking ways how to prevent that attack on Rafah. That this becomes, you know, very eminent, 
 
 Netanyahu is, you know, determined that he wants to continue the war for his personal carrier, for his personal future. 
 
And it's very clear that, you know, he doesn't care about, you know, that this taking the lives of innocent people both in Israel and Palestine, the 
 
 Israeli hostages and the Palestinian innocent people, you know, in Gaza.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA: CNN's Scott McLean is following these developments from Istanbul. And Scott, what was most noticeable and notable was to see 
 
 Mahmoud Abbas for the first time really publicly. I think putting pressure on Hamas to reach a deal soon too, because in his words, this is putting 
 
 Palestinian lives and civilian lives at risks. 
 
The longer this fight goes on, you have family members that are also putting pressure on the Israeli government to reach a deal. What more are 
 
 you hearing in terms of where this can all be picked up again?  
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Bianna. Yes, you have to wonder how much of what we're seeing, at least in terms of the public signals right 
 
 now is really part of the negotiating tactics to try to get a better deal in the end, because as you pointed out,  both sides should not only have a 
 
 strong interest in getting a deal in the first place, but they should also be feeling a lot of pressure. 
 
You have Hamas, of course, feeling pressure from its own people who are living in terrible conditions in Gaza right now and fearing an Israeli 
 
 ground incursion of Rafah. You're also hearing the pressure as you heard there in that clip from the Palestinian authority as well saying, look, you 
 
 need to get a deal soon to protect your own people who are sheltering in Gaza from this Israeli invasion. 
 
Obviously, the Israelis are getting an earful as well from their own allies, telling them not to go into Rafah, and to focus on getting a deal 
 
 instead. And of course, from those hostage families as well, you mentioned it yourself, Bianna, that they are calling this decision to step away from 
 
 the talks in Cairo tantamount to a death sentence right now. 
 
What we know at this stage is that the ball is in Hamas' court. Israeli negotiators have left Cairo. They say that they're not going to go back 
 
 until Hamas changes its position in some way. Hamas' position, the latest that we know of, is that, it wants to see Israel clear out the jails of 
 
 Palestinian prisoners, at least, those who are women, children, or over the age of 50.
 
Something that the Israelis are calling delusional. They want the ratio of Palestinian prisoners, the hostages to be 3-to-1, just like it was in 
 
 November. It doesn't seem like they're close on paper, but diplomats who are familiar with these negotiations actually say that they're encouraged 
 
 by all of this. Though, they also warn that nothing, it seems, is going to happen imminently or quickly.  
 <br>[14:15:00]
 
GOLODRYGA: All right, 131 days in, we still don't have a deal inside. Scott  McLean, thank you. Well, family members of the Israeli hostages and former 
 
 hostages themselves have filed an International Criminal Court case against Hamas. The head of the Hostages and Missing Families forums' legal 
 
 department said the families had taken a significant step with a report which highlights alleged war crimes  committed by Hamas and others since 
 
 the October 7th attack. CNN's Jeremy Diamond has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (on camera): These families have come here, urging the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court 
 
 to file charges against Hamas' top leaders. On the flight that we just took from Tel Aviv to here, Flight 131, which was named for the 131 days of 
 
 captivity that the hostages who still remain in Gaza have endured. 
 
I spoke with several of these family members, and what they told me is that on the one hand, they are looking for justice. They are looking for 
 
 accountability. They hope that prosecutor Khan of the ICC will indeed use the evidence that they have presented to file charges against Hamas' 
 
 leaders. 
 
But beyond that, they are also hoping that the world doesn't forget what has happened to their loved ones, and they're also hoping to build pressure 
 
 not only on Hamas with the hope that sanctions could soon follow on these leaders beyond this ICC filing. 
 
But also of course, on their own leaders, and on leaders around the world who are working to try and negotiate a potential ceasefire in exchange for 
 
 the release of hostages.  
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: Our thanks to Jeremy Diamond for that report from The Hague. Well, still to come tonight, Kyiv claims a huge win in the Black Sea after 
 
 reportedly destroying a Russian warship. We'll have all the latest details ahead. 
 
And a show of force from the U.S. Navy. CNN boards a U.S. warship to get a closer look at tensions in the Red Sea. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, Ukraine is declaring a major military success in the Black Sea. Kyiv says it destroyed a Russian warship earlier today, and as a 
 
 result, claims to have now disabled a third of Russia's Black Sea fleet. The Kremlin has declined to comment. 
 
But the British Defense Secretary said earlier, the sinking is a quote, "powerful reminder of how Ukraine can win." Melissa Bell has the details.
 <br>[14:20:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Caesar Kunikov's moments before it was struck by Ukrainian drones. CNN caught, independently verify, 
 
 would happen to the Russia warship, but the drones' own footage shows extensive damage with Kyiv claiming to have sunk the vessel.    
 
Behind the attack, Group 13, a special forces unit within Ukraine's Defense Intelligence. The drones they used, the Magura, not the fastest, but 
 
 maneuverable enough that they can get past Russian defenses.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Their weapons are not designed for such small sea drones. In most cases, they use empty ship guns. 
 
BELL: And the drones behind it, part of Ukraine's plan to shift frontlines that have seen precious little progress for months now.  
 
MYKHAILO FEDOROV, DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION MINISTER, UKRAINE (through translator): Technology can really save us. It's already saving us today, 
 
 given the shortage of artillery rounds, given the fact that we have much less manpower in terms of numbers. 
 
BELL: The strike on the Caesar Kunikov, just the latest blow to Moscow's once formidable Black Sea fleet. A third of which has now, says Kyiv, been 
 
 either disabled or destroyed. 
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, SECRETARY-GENERAL, NATO: They have actually been able to push the Black Sea fleet away from the western part of the Black Sea. And 
 
 this is a great achievement, a great victory for Ukrainians. With important consequences also for Ukraine's ability to get grain in and out of ports, a 
 
 lifeline for a country fighting not only a land war in the eastern south.  
 
But an existential political battle to keep allies and funding on side even as Kyiv ramps up the production of its own, much-needed weapons. 
 
FEDOROV: This year we'll produce thousands of grounds, I cannot say how many exactly, but I will say this, there is no limit.  
 
BELL: Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, NATO Secretary-General is calling the apparent sinking of that Russian warship in the Black Sea, a quote, "great victory for 
 
 Ukrainians". 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
STOLTENBERG: The Ukrainians have been able to inflict heavy losses on the Russian Black Sea fleet. They have actually been able to push the Black Sea 
 
 fleet away from the western part of the Black Sea. And this is a great achievement, a great victory for Ukrainians.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Jens Stoltenberg says Ukraine's military success has opened a Black Sea corridor that allows them to export more grain and other 
 
 commodities. NATO Defense Ministers plan to meet tomorrow. 
 
So, let's welcome in General Wesley Clark; a former NATO Supreme Allied Commander for his perspective on all of this. General, it's good to see you 
 
 as always. So, I'm just curious, despite Ukraine's few achievements as of late on the battlefield, to what do you attribute their numerous 
 
 achievements when it comes to attacking Russia's fleet in the Black Sea?
 
WESLEY CLARK, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: The Ukrainian Industrial base, the young people there, the entrepreneurs, they're incredibly innovative. 
 
 They're looking at the latest technologies. They're taking commercial off- the-shelf technology. 
 
They're repurposing it for military means. And so, they've got an action cycle that's much faster than what the Russians have. They can find the 
 
 need for something, develop the technology for it, and put it in the field faster than the Russians can. And then that's really what's helping them in 
 
 the Black Sea. 
 
GOLODRYGA: So, they're scrappy, nimble, obviously, waiting and buying time for what they're hoping to see is a 60 billion allotment and U.S. funding 
 
 that will really make up for what they are missing now. And that is artillery ammunition, that's what they're desperate need of despite the 54 
 
 billion that has already been pledged by the EU. 
 
There's no topping what the U.S. is able to provide them. Yet, we've yet to see Congress even take up this bill. And this comes as the former president 
 
 over the weekend has said that Russia can quote, "do whatever the hell it wants if NATO countries don't meet 2 percent GDP spending on defense."
 
I want to play sound for you from former President Trump's own Defense Secretary this morning on CNN, when he was asked what he thinks former 
 
 President Trump would do if he were re-elected when it comes to NATO and Europe. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MARK ESPER, FORMER U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: Well, the first things he'll do is move to cut off all funding for Ukraine. The next thing he'll probably 
 
 do is to begin withdrawing troops from key countries unless they meet a spending commitment, but ultimately, will try to withdraw from NATO. 
 
But look, on the other hand, despite a law recently passed by Congress saying that he can't without -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Congress -- 
 
ESPER: Congress' approval, there's so many other things the president can do to undermine the alliance -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Of what -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
GOLODRYGA: Listen, I hear that and the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. I'm just wondering, compare that to what we hear from other previously 
 
 hawkish Republican Senators like Marco Rubio, who in response to those comments says that he trusts Trump will do nothing because he didn't take 
 
 the U.S. out of NATO in his first term.
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
Who do you believe? Do you believe what Mark Esper says -- 
 
CLARK: No -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: Trump will do or what a Senator Rubio says he will?  
 
CLARK: Look, absolutely Mark Esper has it exactly right. Look, a number of Republican senators are worried about their own re-election. They're 
 
 worried about the election base, their standing in the party. They don't want to make an enemy of Donald Trump. 
 
But they -- we know that many of these people despise him privately, and they will say that. But they can't say it publicly, and they don't want to 
 
 disagree with the policies at this point. But we should take Mr. Trump very seriously when he attacks NATO. He has a track record of doing this. 
 
We know, just like former Secretary Mark Esper just said on CNN, that if he's re-elected, he is going to do his best to pull the United States out 
 
 of NATO. He'll cut support to NATO. He'll try to take U.S. troops out of Europe. A number of things, and why is he doing this? That's the question 
 
 why?
 
And you know, my belief as he's doing it because somehow he sees himself as a buddy, a partner of Vladimir Putin, and he has a different view of the 
 
 world. Mr. Trump, does. He views it -- he wants the country to be his country. Like (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE). 
 
He thinks that, you know what? All the government should work for him, and he should make transactions or make money off of it. It's totally un-
 
 American.  
 
GOLODRYGA: And that's not to say that other countries should not be contributing more. And in fact, we are seeing more NATO members 
 
 specifically those in eastern Europe along the Baltics, contribute more of their GDP, even surpassing 2 percent towards defense spending since 
 
 Russia's illegal invasion and full-scale invasion two years ago. 
 
Eleven of thirty one nations were set to reach that target in 2023. Can I get you to respond though, to what Keith Kellogg, who was an adviser to 
 
 former President Trump and one time Chief of Staff for the former president's National Security Council. 
 
Here's what he said in an interview. He said that "if a member of the 31- country alliance fail to spend at least 2 percent of its GDP, that they would be -- he would support removing that nation's Article 5 protections." 
 
 So, not necessarily taking that country or kicking that country out of NATO as a whole, but removing the Article 5 protection provision. 
 
What do you make of that? Is that even feasible? And what does that say to the integrity of the organization as a whole, if that were enacted?
 
CLARK: Honestly, it destroys the integrity of the organization. It makes NATO like a country club membership -- or you can't go in the swimming pool 
 
 if you didn't pay your dues. Well, NATO is an alliance of sovereign nations, all of these nations are working to get their defense 
 
 contributions up.  
 
And the alliance has to be cohesive. So, if you pulled a nation out of Article 5, it's an invitation for Vladimir Putin or gobble up this nation. 
 
 Which nation is it that hasn't paid? I'll put my forces there. That's no way to provide security and stability in a world that tremendously 
 
 undercuts U.S. credibility itself, and it undercuts the safety of all Americans for Keith Kellogg to say things like that. I know Keith Kellogg 
 
 and he should know better. 
 
GOLODRYGA: All right, retired General Wesley Clark, always great to hear your perspective. We appreciate your time  
 
CLARK: Thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, there's also new reaction by NATO leaders to those comments by President Trump, former President Trump a few hours ago. 
 
 Estonia's Defense Minister had this to say to me on CNN's "ONE WORLD". 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HANNO PEVKUR, DEFENSE MINISTER, ESTONIA: U.S. always wanted to be on the winning side, and on the side of the democracy. And this is why I really do 
 
 not believe that it has any advantage for U.S. to step out from NATO or to even think about such an idea.
 
Of course, it is very rightful to say that every NATO member has to invest more, and Estonia has been very vocal here, and then has been advocating 
 
 for that for many years already. And our own defense spending this year will be over 3.2 percent. 
 
So, we are, you know, very close to U.S. spending spot. One needs for sure that as European allies needs U.S. as a strong ally, also U.S. needs 
 
 European allies as a very strong ally because only together we are stronger.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
GOLODRYGA: And Minister of Healthcare(ph) also told me that to keep in mind Russia has now doubled its defense spending, and any financial support for 
 
 its military will be given by President Putin. Well, still to come, CNN gets a closer look at the efforts being made by the U.S. Navy to protect 
 
 international shipping from Iran-backed Houthi rebels.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:33:34]
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN, more people get their news from CNN than any other news source.
 
GOLODRYGA: The U.S. Navy is making a visible show of force in the Red Sea. Their aim is to protect international shipping from missiles and drones 
 
 launched by Iran-backed Houthi militants in Yemen. CNN's Natasha Bertrand boarded a U.S. warship on the front lines of the fight and saw how quickly 
 
 the crew has to act to intercept an incoming missile.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: We were on the front lines of the U.S. Navy's fight against the Houthis inside Yemen, who have 
 
 been launching missiles and drones into the Red Sea for several months now, targeting commercial vessels as well as U.S. and coalition forces there.
 
And it's hard to overstate just how frenetic the pace was onboard the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower aircraft carrier, which has been launching jets 
 
 multiple times per day. To be up in the air, ready to respond at a moment's notice in case they need to target Houthis weaponry and capabilities inside 
 
 Yemen at a moment's notice.
 
Now, we also got the opportunity to go inside the command center of a U.S. warship that is also stationed in the Red Sea, the U.S. warship called the 
 
 USS Gravely. And that has been the tip of the spear, really, in many of the operations being conducted against the Houthis, including by shooting down 
 
 their missiles and drones that they have been firing into the Red Sea over the last several months. Here's a peek at what it takes for the crew to 
 
 respond to an incoming missile on a pretty regular basis.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All stations air, kill (ph) track 80306. I assess an anti-ship cruise missile inbound Gravely.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Kill (ph) track 80306 with missiles, this is Gravely.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right. Break. MSS, kill (ph) track 80306.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: MSSI, missiles away, 80306.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Airstrike, 80306.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Missiles ready.
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
BERTRAND: Now, the crew on board the Gravely, they told us that they often only have a matter of seconds to respond when a missile is launched inside 
 
 Yemen. And it is important to note here that it is not a foolproof system.
 
In fact, just last month, the USS Gravely had a very close call with a missile, and they had to use one of their last lines of defenses, called a 
 
 failing system in order to shoot down that missile before it actually got close enough to do any damage to that warship.
 
But look, this is all in conjunction with the broader U.S. effort to try to degrade the Houthis capabilities. The Houthis, of course, are backed by 
 
 Iran. And so, the question now is, how long does the U.S. have to stay in the Red Sea to effectively deter the Houthis from carrying out their 
 
 attacks, to degrade enough of their weaponry so that they can no longer disrupt international shipping in this very vital waterway?
 
Here's what the commander of Carrier Strike Group 2 told me when I asked him how long the U.S. plans to sustain this mission.
 
REAR ADMIRAL MARC MIGUEZ, COMMANDER, CARRIER STRIKE GROUP 2: The sustainability, we can go for a long time. We've got our logistics train 
 
 already mapped out to stay here as long as the president needs us to stay here.
 
BERTRAND: Now, the U.S. clearly feels that it can outlast the Houthis, and it remains to be seen whether that is the case or how the U.S. is going to 
 
 continue this mission without knowing for sure just how much of the Houthi weaponry they have managed to destroy. The U.S. doesn't have a great 
 
 picture of that at the moment. But for now, they say, they're going to continue this mission, this presence in the Red Sea really for as long as 
 
 it takes.
 
Natasha Bertrand, CNN, in Bahrain.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Thanks to Natasha for that report.
 
Meantime, the back-and-forth battle over U.S. border security and funding for Israel and Ukraine is setting up to be a major clash on Capitol Hill. 
 
 The U.S. Senate has approved a $95.3 billion aid bill that includes money for Israel and Ukraine. Well now, the House Speaker is refusing to put the 
 
 package on the floor for a vote.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PETE AGUILAR (D-CA): So, the question is for Speaker Johnson. What is he afraid of to put national security first, to help our country, to push back 
 
 and -- push back against Putin, and to make sure that our country is protected? What is his concern?
 
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA), U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER: Let me be clear here again this morning, the Republican-led House will not be jammed or forced into 
 
 passing a foreign aid bill that was opposed by most Republican senators and does nothing to secure our own border.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, joining us now with more is CNN's Capitol Hill Reporter Melanie Zanona. So, a lot to unpack there, Melanie. The Speaker, though, 
 
 saying it does nothing to secure the border, while people may be scratching their heads because there was a bill that addressed just that, that they 
 
 squashed as well. There do appear to be enough votes to pass this, if it actually came up for a vote on the House. So, I'll ask you the same 
 
 question I asked you yesterday, what is Speaker Johnson's plan then?
 
MELANIE ZANONA, CNN CAPITOL HILL REPORTER: Well, there is a very serious debate inside the House Republican conference right now about how to 
 
 address this Senate foreign aid package. Speaker Mike Johnson told a group of closed -- a group of members during a closed door meeting this morning 
 
 that there's no rush to figure this out, but he still did not reveal his plans.
 
However, he does have a couple options at his disposal. The first one, he could just ignore it altogether. That is something that some of his hard 
 
 right members are encouraging him to do. But the risk there is that if he doesn't articulate his own plan, that may inspire some Republicans to try 
 
 to team up with Democrats to use this procedural tool known as a motion to vacate to force a fuller (ph) vote on that Senate aid package.
 
Another option that Johnson has is to rewrite the package, and there are some early discussions about what that might look like. Some of the ideas 
 
 they're discussing is attaching their own border security bill to the Senate package, that is something that passed the House already, a bill 
 
 known as H.R.2, it's a very hardline border security bill and that would make it unpalatable in the Senate. So, it's not really an option that would 
 
 get something to President Biden's desk.
 
There's also some discussion about stripping out some of the Ukraine aid. Stripping out, particularly, the humanitarian assistance, so it only 
 
 includes military assistance. The thinking there is that perhaps it's more palatable in the Republican conference if it's just a more pared down 
 
 version of Ukraine.
 
But I talked to some of those hard right Republicans and they say they don't support a dollar for more Ukraine money. And some of them have also 
 
 warned that they would threaten Speaker Mike Johnson's speakership and his job if he were to put a bill like that on the floor. So, as of right now, 
 
 no decisions have been made at this moment, though, the speaker is requesting a meeting with President Biden to try to sit down and figure out 
 
 a path forward yet.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, looming over all of this, of course, is the weight of Former President Trump and the pressure that he is putting on Speaker 
 
 Johnson not to bring this bill up for a vote. Melanie Zanona, thank you.
 
Well, still to come tonight, a shipwreck suddenly appears off the coast of Canada. We'll take a look at how it happened and why the wreckage could be 
 
 destroyed.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:42:38]
 
GOLODRYGA: In Indonesia, unofficial vote tallies suggest that the Former Army General Prabowo Subianto is on track to win the presidential election. 
 
 More than 200 million people were eligible to vote in the world's largest single day election. Early voting shows Prabowo was one who -- has won 
 
 roughly 60 percent of the vote.
 
Anna Coren has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: While official results won't be 1confirmed until next month, it would appear from the unofficial tally 
 
 quick count that Former General Prabowo Subianto will be Indonesia's next president. Results show he won almost 60 percent of the vote, which means 
 
 there will be no runoff.
 
72-year-old Prabowo was greeted to a rock star welcome by his supporters at a stadium in the capital Jakarta, saying this was a victory for all 
 
 Indonesians, but they must wait for the official results from the Electoral Commission.
 
But claims of mass vote rigging have been made by the other candidates, with the team of Ganjar Pranowo, the former governor of Central Java, 
 
 saying they've received reports of structural, systematic, and massive fraud during Wednesday's presidential election and have vowed to 
 
 investigate.
 
Prabowo, a former general under the Suharto dictatorship, was accused of human rights abuses. And at one point, was not allowed to enter the United 
 
 States or Australia. He ran in the past two elections and lost to President Joko Widodo, but falsely claimed the vote had been stolen.
 
Prabowo has had a dramatic image makeover, thanks in part to a slick PR and social media campaign. But perhaps more important to his changed public 
 
 perception is the endorsement by the very popular President Jokowi, whose eldest son, 36-year-old Gibran Rakabuming Raka, is Prabowo's running mate. 
 
 Jokowi has a two-term limit and cannot run again.
 
The main issues of this election are the economy, jobs, education, and eradicating corruption, with half of Indonesia's voters under the age of 
 
 40. Well, conducting this election was a colossal and massive task. Indonesia, an archipelago made up of 17,000 islands, of which 7,000 are 
 
 inhabited meant officials had to travel on horseback, helicopter, boat, even trekking to some of these remote places to deliver ballots. ?
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
This election is seen as a referendum on the legacy of Jokowi, whose popularity is based on the country's solid economic record under his 10-
 
 year reign. Prabowo campaigned as the continuity candidate, and some analysts believe that a deal has been done between Prabowo and Jokowi that 
 
 would allow Jokowi to wield influence behind the scenes once his term ends in October.
 
Anna Coren, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Our thanks to Anna Coren.
 
Well, another tense day in Northern India as police fire tear gas at farmers marching towards the capital. At least 30 people were detained 
 
 according to officials. Protesters are calling for the government to put in a place -- to put in place a law to better support the price of crops.
 
Authorities have been increasing security around New Delhi, fearing a repeat of protests in 2020, which saw farmers blocking roads and setting up 
 
 makeshift camps for months. The demonstrations come as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been busy overseas. Earlier, he inaugurated the first 
 
 Hindu temple in the United Arab Emirates.
 
Well, a hurricane uncovered a mysterious shipwreck off Canada, and now a winter storm threatens to damage it. The shipwreck appears on the shores of 
 
 Newfoundland in January, while it's lodged in the shallow waters off the Coast of Cape Ray. The wreck's origins remain unknown and scientists may 
 
 not have a chance to figure it out. An approaching storm is threatening the wreck.
 
So, what is the storm threat to the shipwreck? Joining us now from the CNN Weather Center is Meteorologist Chad Myers. Chad, what a great time to talk 
 
 about something that, yes, it is weather related, but there's a lot more to this story. Tell us more about how weather can impact what we know about 
 
 this ship.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Right. We do think that at least Fiona, category four hurricane, likely dislodged it but that was months and months 
 
 ago. Now, it's finally on shore, and the problem it's in the surf zone where the waves are coming on shore.
 
Let's get you a little bit closer. So, there's the U.S. Here's Newfoundland. Here's Nova Scotia. All the way in now, it actually landed on 
 
 a beach and there was a man looking for shorebirds along this beach from Cape Ray and he came along something that was in the water and wasn't there 
 
 a couple days ago. But right here -- it's not there right now because this is a picture from Google Earth and it didn't exist here a couple of years 
 
 ago. But now that ship is right there.
 
So, let's get rid of this and we'll show you what's going on. Here's Hurricane Fiona. All these onshore winds, all so much erosion from St. 
 
 John's all the way down to Nova Scotia. It was a dreadful scene when Fiona came on shore up there. But now another storm system is beginning to move 
 
 on shore here, and I just talked to some guys there in St. John's and they said a half a meter of snow and the winds are blowing 60.
 
So, this is what the shipwreck looks like. It's an old wooden boat. Talked to the president of the Shipwreck Preservation Society, he said it's at 
 
 least 115 feet, so probably 35 meters, and it's not even all here. They took some wood cores. They took some samples. They took some metal off the 
 
 boat, which is likely like a copper or bronze, and they're going to try to figure out what this shipwreck was, or at least what it is now.
 
Now, this is likely a very large sailing vessel. So, it's upside down. Can't see any kind of a mast or where they would have been attached. But so 
 
 much of this here with these wood pegs coming through here, kind of like dowels holding parts of the ship together.
 
And so, it is going to be a long process before we can actually figure out or if they can figure out what this ship was. There are thousands and 
 
 thousands of wrecks off of Newfoundland and Labrador. He believes that -- Neil Burgess from the Preservation Society said that there are 700 that we 
 
 already know of. This actually could be one that they knew of but just got blown around.
 
But now it's getting beat up by the surf along the shore and that's what they don't want to happen because otherwise it'll just come apart into 
 
 many, many pieces. They want to try to keep this together if they can to get it to possibly a museum because this is kind of a special place up 
 
 here.
 
I mean, you get up toward Nova Scotia and Newfoundland, this is pristine, pristine area. And so, to have just a ship, kind of, show up on your beach 
 
 is not something they're used to up there, I'm afraid, Bianna, but -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, and -- 
 
MYERS: Go ahead.
 
GOLODRYGA: It's unfortunate, though, that another weather system can threaten the preservation -- 
 
MYERS: Yes, right.
 
GOLODRYGA: -- of this ship. It's worth noting, as you said, that lots of ships are discovered, but yet this one could, who knows? Who knows what the 
 
 back story could be here.
 
MYERS: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: People imagining, perhaps, some treasures on board or whatever the story may be. I just keep thinking back to the man who discovered it. 
 
 Going out looking for shorebirds, the next thing you know, you find a shipwreck.
 
MYERS: Right, and a big shipwreck.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes.
 
MYERS: I mean, 35 meters. He just didn't find a dinghy that washed up on shore. He found a very large -- this is 14 by 14, this keel part right 
 
 there, that's 14 inches by 14 inches.
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
That is a large piece of lumber that was put together to make this and then the spars come off. And then he thinks there were probably three sheets, a 
 
 metal sheet underneath of a wood, and then below that was a four-inch planks of oak. But they're going to try to put this or take it out, do what 
 
 they can, piece -- even if it's piece by piece to try to preserve what they can rather than just get broken up.
 
GOLODRYGA: Hopefully they can use the samples they've taken to discover the backstory here.
 
MYERS: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: Chad Myers, always great to see you. Thank you.
 
MYERS: Good to see you.
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, still to come tonight, a new lunar landing is expected to launch tonight and could be the first U.S. spacecraft on the moon since the 
 
 Apollo era. More on that, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, we could just be hours away from a landmark space achievement for the United States. Tomorrow at 1:00 a.m., a SpaceX rocket 
 
 will carry a privately funded lunar landing into orbit. If all goes well, the rocket will land on the moon later this month. It would be the first 
 
 time an American lander has touched down since 1972 after a failed landing mission last month. NASA is pining it's -- pinning its hopes on this second 
 
 spacecraft.
 
CNN Space and Defense Correspondent Kristin Fisher joins me now. So, Kristin, talk about the significance of this mission.
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Well two big firsts, Bianna. I mean, right now this company is trying to become the first 
 
 commercial space company to ever build and successfully land a spacecraft on the surface of the moon. Never been done before. Although another 
 
 company, Astrobotic, tried to take that title just a few weeks ago but failed due to a propellant issue.
 
And then the other big first, Bianna, is that if successful, this lunar lander built by a company that's based in Houston, Texas called Intuitive 
 
 Machines, it would become the first American made spacecraft to land on the surface of the moon since the end of the Apollo program back in 1972, that 
 
 is how long it's been.
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
And so, a lot of people want to know, why has it been so long? Why is it so hard to land on the moon successfully when it was a feat that was first 
 
 accomplished more than half a century ago? And Bianna, you know, it's not an easy answer. There's a lot of factors to it. But one of the big ones is 
 
 money. I mean, back then, the Apollo program consumed about four percent of all federal spending. Now, NASA's budget is only 0.4 percent of all federal 
 
 spending.
 
And then you take a look at these private companies like Intuitive Machines, like Astrobotic, which failed last month with its attempt. And, 
 
 you know, these companies are trying to do this for $100 million compared to hundreds of billions, if not trillions in today's dollars what the 
 
 Apollo program did. So, that's the big factor, but there's a lot of other ones as well, Bianna, mainly that, you know, the moon's far and that's hard 
 
 to do, technically speaking.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, a big milestone though for the U.S. space program, and I should say for our hometown, both of our hometown, Houston, Texas as well. 
 
 Everyone's rooting for this one. Kristin Fisher, thank you so much.
 
FISHER: Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA: And thank you for watching tonight. Stay with CNN. "Quest Means Business" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END