Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Obama, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff Headline Night 2 Of DNC; Biden DELIVERS FIERY, FORCEFUL SPEECH AS HE PASSES TORCH TO Harris; Former Trump WH Staffers, Other Republican To Speak At DNC. Aired 2- 2:30p ET

Aired August 20, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:15]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Hello, and welcome to CNN's special live coverage of the Democratic National Convention. I'm Brianna Keilar here in Chicago and my good friend and colleague, Boris Sanchez is in Washington.
 
It is day two here at the Convention where tonight, former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama will be taking the stage in their hometown, laying out their pitch for why Kamala Harris should be the 47th President of the United States. Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff will also be one of the headliners tonight. He's expected to share personal stories about his marriage and family life with Vice President Harris.
 
And around the same time, she will be about 90 miles away in Milwaukee, kind of just up the way. They're holding a rally in the same arena where Republicans held their convention last month. I want to bring in CNN Chief National Affairs Correspondent Jeff Zeleny.
 
Jeff, you have some reporting on what the Obamas are expected to say tonight. What can you tell us? 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Brianna, we know that former President Barack Obama likes to make the case for democratic candidates as he's done since leaving office. And tonight, I'm told, he will give a forceful articulation of why he believes the country and Democrats should elect Kamala Harris.
 
Yes, he's going to go through the roadmap of what he believes are the issues at stake. And larger than any individual issues like the economy and democracy is really going to be laying out the stakes and drawing a contrast with former President Donald Trump. It's something that we have seen him do, of course, back in the 2016 campaign. He made a similar argument for Hillary Clinton. Of course, that was not as successful. 
 
But this speech, I'm told, right here in his hometown of Chicago, will be slightly different, slightly more elevated, but it is going to be a forceful argument. And this is something that is really the arc of the relationship between Kamala Harris and Barack Obama. It was 20 years ago this summer that she was actually at his convention seeing him for the first time when he had that breakout moment back at the 2004 convention. 
 
They became friends over the years. Now, he's one of her trusted advisors. He talks with her frequently. I'm told, he was in conversation with her when she was deciding who she was going to choose for her running mate. 
 
So for all the talk of passing the porch last evening, this is also a different moment for the party, sort of moving beyond the interlude of the Biden Administration. And he's going to be making the strong case for her. But Michelle Obama is someone we do not hear much from in a public setting like this. She'll be giving a much shorter speech, I'm told, essentially introducing her husband. But her words carry so much weight because she is not seen as a political figure. So all eyes are going to be in what she says tonight. But it's also the speech from Doug Emhoff tonight going to really be putting the personal touches on his marriage, as you said, to Vice President Harris, how she has been a stepmother for his children and so much more. 
 
There's also a bigger lineup tonight of other speakers, including a few Republicans as well, making the argument. But perhaps, the most important thing is happening just up the road from here. Brianna, as you said in Milwaukee. Clearly, Wisconsin is a swing state. So the Vice President not taking tonight off to bask in the applause in this arena, she's out trying to win votes just a little bit north of here. 
 
Of course, that's key for November, Brianna.
 
KEILAR: Yeah, certainly is. Jeff Zeleny, thank you so much for that. I want to bring in CNN Senior Political Analyst Mark Preston. First, let's talk about what was a rather late speech tonight by President Biden, but one where he got such an amazing reception. 
 
MARK PRESTON, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: He certainly did. I mean, talk about a swan song. You know, just 30, 31 days ago, he was planning to come here to this convention and on Thursday night stand on the stage and, you know, bask in the glory of the balloon drop and actually have a convention. He didn't have one in 2020. If you remember, it was a virtual convention because of COVID. 
 
But what we saw last night was Joe Biden actually, you know, showing some grace. And I hate to say it because we're saying it all the time now, is passing the baton. And he passed the baton to Kamala Harris. He did speak a little bit about his decision to step away. Let's take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's been the honor of my lifetime to serve as your president. I love the job, but I love my country more. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRESTON: Now, of course, he was in many ways pushed out and -- but he has handled it gracefully. He's in California right now. But what is really interesting that really caught certainly my ear, in my eye, and expect to hear this over the next few days and certainly the closing days of the election is the issue of abortion. 
 
We've heard a lot about Project 2025. They are now trying to actually tie it together with some of these legislative that are driving voters right now. Let's take a listen to a young woman that talked about having an abortion or, excuse me, having a miscarriage at the age of twelve.
 <br>[14:05:04]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HADLEY DUVALL, BECAME PREGNANT AT AGE 12 BY STEPFATHER'S RAPE: He calls it a beautiful thing. What is so beautiful about a child having to carry her parent's child? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRESTON: So that's Hadley Duvall. She's from Kentucky. She appeared in an ad for Governor Beshear from Kentucky last year, a very powerful lad. As a Democrat, he won in a red state abortion outlawed in Kentucky. I would expect to see Hadley Duvall probably in a more national setting beyond what we saw her last night. 
 
KEILAR: Yeah. I mean, you -- that -- what she said kind of stopped you in your tracks, it was one of those moments you couldn't predict was going to happen, I thought.
 
PRESTON: Not at all. 
 
KEILAR: And so I wonder how this compares to the republican convention?
 
PRESTON: Well, certainly -- well, one thing, it's more raucous, okay? I mean, you look behind us right here, this whole place is basically filled up. Democrats have double the number of -- that would -- yes. 
 
KEILAR: Well, it will be. It will be.
 
PRESTON: It will be filled up later. Virtually, it's filled up now. 
 
KEILAR: It's not happening, right? It will be. I mean -- 
 
PRESTON: It will be filled up. But realistically, they have double the amount of number of delegates. But they also bring their constituencies in. 
 
KEILAR: Right. 
 
PRESTON: Republican convention tends to be more of a meeting, more of a formality rah-rah speech as they go home. It gets very loud in here. 
 
KEILAR: Mark, thank you so much. Really appreciate it.
 
PRESTON: Yeah. 
 
KEILAR: Let's talk now with Florida Democratic Congressman Jared Moskowitz. I wonder what you thought -- and hearing sound checks. I just want to let our viewers know so you're going to hear some noise behind us. That's just what's going to be happening over the next couple hours. 
 
You were watching the President's speech last night. I love the job, but I love my country more. How do you think history is going to judge that moment? 
 
REP. JARED MOSKOWITZ (D-FL): Well, I mean, it's one of the most patriotic things you can do. He's been doing this for 50 years. This is his life. This is what he knows. He's got one of the best public service records. I think, really, anyone living today and if you look historically, I think he'll go down. And this moment, will go down as a major victory for the country. Very personal decision, I think, for the President.
 
And so I think he's going to be looked kindly for what he did, not just for the Democratic Party but also for the country. But look, we gave him a great send off, right? We actually gave him two days. He got, you know, Monday night and Tuesday morning. So -- 
 
KEILAR: Okay. That's funny. I think actually, we just heard the drums after you said that. 
 
MOSKOWITZ That was intentional.
 
KEILAR: It's like they knew. 
 
MOSKOWITZ: It's 10 bucks, 10 bucks. 
 
KEILAR: They knew. How important is President Obama's speech tonight? And who does he need to be speaking to that Vice President Harris needs to be winning over that? Maybe she isn't. 
 
MOSKOWITZ: Well, first of all, let's talk about the fact that President Obama is coming here. Secretary Clinton was here, Michelle Obama, you're going to have President Bill Clinton. You know, Donald Trump didn't have any of that because he didn't invite anybody who was a previous president from the Republican Party. In fact, his former Vice President couldn't come. I don't even know if Mike Pence was invited to the convention.
 
So Democrats are united. Usually, you know, you hear Democrats fall in love, republicans fall in line. Democrats are doing both. We're falling in love and falling in line. And so, look, President Obama, you know, is a communicator like nobody else of this generation. And so he's going to talk to, I think, all facets of the Democratic Party that we have to together unite. Even if we have differences, we're a big tent. We have to unite because defeating Donald Trump is the most important thing. 
 
And so I think that's what you're going to hear from Obama. I think what you're going to hear, people might remember what Bill Clinton did in that speech for Obama, okay? When Bill Clinton spoke at that convention after Hillary in the reelect, in Obama's reelect, Bill Clinton came out and gave -- 
 
KEILAR: In 2012. 
 
MOSKOWITZ: That's right. Gave one of the most powerful speeches, I think, explaining why his reelect -- Obama's reelection was so important. I think Obama is going to do that for Kamala. 
 
KEILAR: So when you said big tent, it's really pretty big for the DNC. I think we have an unprecedented number of Republicans that will be watching, speaking kind of peppered throughout the program here this week. 
 
MOSKOWITZ: I don't see many Democrats for Trump. 
 
KEILAR: Adam Kinzinger, who will be getting a pretty plumb spot and speaking for a while, it sounds like on Thursday, what does that mean to the Party? I just -- David Urban was just on. And he said it doesn't actually, as Senator Schatz had said, give a permission structure to maybe some disaffected Republicans or some Republicans. David Urban said, it didn't. But I wonder what you think.
 
MOSKOWITZ: So David might be right specifically with Republicans. But I'll tell you what it does do. It appeals to independents, okay? Because independents want to see someone who doesn't just appeal to their base. The republican convention was a base convention. The fact that we're going to have half a dozen Republicans, former Trump people speaking here, independents are listening to that and they're seeing someone who's appealing just beyond the base. 
 
And so, yeah, maybe that doesn't give a permission slip to Republicans, but I think that matters in the middle. 
 <br>[14:10:01]
 
People who are on the fence will see that, and we'll see someone who's appealing just beyond the base. 
 
KEILAR: We saw some protesters, not many, three or four inside, who were holding up a banner that read stop arming Israel. That was really in the back of here, the United Center. There, of course, were protests outside. We saw them tear down a small part of a barrier, and police intervened. 
 
Members of the uncommitted movement represented here among the delegates want Kamala Harris to outline a plan for Gaza. I wonder if you think she needs to respond to them. 
 
MOSKOWITZ: Well, look, I think the Vice President has done a good job showing compassion, showing that she's happy to meet with them, showing that she's listening. But at the same time, I don't think there's going to be a significant change in policy. You can just see that in the platform, of course, that came out. That platform is one of the most pro-Israel platforms the Democratic Party has ever had and is more pro-Israel than the Republican platform because there wasn't really much in the Republican platform.
 
She is not going to be for an embargo on arms to Israel. She's already said that. So we can turn the page on that issue. They can continue to protest for that, that's their right. But that's not going to happen. I think she's a strong supporter of Israel. And I don't think you're going to see much change from the Biden-Harris record on Israel. 
 
KEILAR: There was an interesting appearance. It was different than some of the others from Michigan State Representative Mallory McMorrow, where she was just reading off of project 2025. And in particular, she read yesterday about a part that would, in her words, as she was describing to basically allow Trump to kind of gut career civil servants from the federal government and install people loyal to him in positions that are usually apolitical.
 
How concerned are you that this will really happen? And how effective do you think it is with folks here and those listening outside? 
 
MOSKOWITZ: Oh, I think the project 2025 thing is effective. But don't listen to the State Senator. Listen to Democrats say -- listen to Donald Trump. He can't run away faster from that whole thing, distancing himself. He's got his campaign people putting things out. We have nothing to do with this, even though there's like 100 people from his administration who were involved. 
 
So look, I think here's what happened. I think that they knew, they were writing this. This is a plan. Heritage Foundation is very involved. Remember, that's where Donald Trump's Supreme Court picks came from. And then they got caught. They got caught with the plan. And then I think people on the Trump campaign started to actually read it. And they were like, oh, this is not going to go over well if this becomes public. And that's what happened. And now, they're kind of caught. 
 
And so no, Democrats should continue to talk about Project 2025 and they should make the Trump people own it because those are his people who wrote it.
 
KEILAR: Well, they will. She's going to keep talking about it each night at some point --
 
MOSKOWITZ: A large book.
 
KEILAR: -- at the convention. It is, hundreds of pages. Congressman, thank you so much for being with us. We do appreciate it. 
 
MOSKOWITZ: Thanks for having me.
 
KEILAR: And ahead, we have more from the Convention here in Chicago as Democrats rally around Vice President Harris as the nominee. What's her campaign strategy to turn enthusiasm into votes? I'll be speaking to her Deputy Campaign Manager next. 
 
Also ahead, new details about what the U.S. alleges. Was an Iranian hacking operation targeting both Harris and Trump's campaigns in recent months? And then later, Taylor Swift meets two young survivors injured in a stabbing attack at an event inspired by her music. What she told them next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: What a difference eight years makes. You probably remember Michelle Obama's 2016 rallying cry. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEIO CLIP)
 
MICHELLE OBAMA, FORMER FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES: How we explain that when someone is cruel or acts like a bully, you don't stoop to their level. No. Our motto is, when they go low, we go high.
 
(END VIDEIO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Fast forward to last night and Vice President Harris unifying message.
 
(BEGIN VIDEIO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Let us fight for the ideals we hold dear. And let us always remember, when we fight, we win. 
 
(END VIDEIO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: So what does that fight look like as we close in on the final months of this election? Joining me now, we have Quentin Fulks, the Principal Deputy Campaign Manager for the Harris campaign. Quentin, thank you so much for being with us. We do appreciate it. 
 
It's a bit of a turn from eight years ago. I mean, what do you think about it? 
 
QUENTIN FULKS, PRINCIPAL DEPUTY CAMPAIGN MANAGER, HARRIS CAMPAIGN: I mean, look, I think that there's momentum. I think that there's enthusiasm. I think that the vice president has a vision. That's night two of this convention is to talk about her vision for this country and what it looks like moving forward. 
 
And I think we have to continue to remind people, as the Vice President says, that when we fight together, we can win. 
 
KEILAR: Tonight, we'll be hearing from the Obamas. I wonder how important it is to hear from former President Obama as a messenger on the economy.
 
FULKS: I think it's very important. I think that the Vice President is shaping her economic policy and what she wants it to look like. I think that President Biden has, or President Obama has sat in the chair. There's very few people who have been president of the United States and know what that job entails, and what it requires, and what you're looking for, and can talk about what it means to put an agenda together for the people. And I think that President Obama is going to be a very, very important validator on that topic. 
 <br>[14:20:04] KEILAR: Do you think he appeals to black men that may be a challenging area when it comes to the voting blocks that Harris has to work on? 
 
FULKS: Look, I think that black men obviously want to hear about the economy. I think that for too long, black men have felt like they've been left behind and left out of the vision for this country. And as the Vice President is saying, she is running to represent all of America, rural, poor, urban, straight, black, gay, white, everything. And we have to make sure that we're communicating that message. And so I do think that African-American men want to hear the Vice President's vision for the economy and how everybody can have an opportunity to get ahead. 
 
KEILAR: You're starting the convention, I think, a half hour earlier today. Is that right -- 
 
FULKS: Yeah. 
 
KEILAR: -- than you were expecting after things ran pretty long last night? James Taylor's performance was canceled. There were a number of speakers who were jettisoned. We didn't hear from President Biden until 11:30 Eastern. What happened? And are you sure that you have things under control for today? 
 
FULKS: Well, look, we've got a great team that's hosting this convention in the city of Chicago, has welcomed us and embraced us with open arms. It was night one of the convention. Obviously, when you're planning something this big, things can happen. And I think that's what happened last night. But I think today and tonight, we're going to see a flawless program. 
 
KEILAR: We are learning about the number of Republican voices that will be on this stage behind us. It's really an unprecedented number for a democratic convention. And that includes a pretty plumb spot for Adam Kinzinger on Thursday night. Clearly, you view him, the campaign views him very much as an asset. 
 
FULKS: Yeah. I mean, I think so. I mean, all Republicans, I called a little bit of the segment before. The reason why these people are supporting Vice President Harris and Governor Walz is because of Donald Trump's plan and because of the extreme agenda. Donald Trump's extremism is driving Republicans away.
 
And so, again, we are comfortable with the fact that these individuals don't have to agree with Vice President Harris or Governor Walz on everything. But what they know is the same thing that President Biden knows, is that this is about America and putting their country first. And they see Donald Trump's and J.D. Vance's extremism.
 
KEILAR: You have some uncommitted voters here represented among the delegates. We spoke with one yesterday on the program. And they are calling on Vice President Harris to outline a plan when it comes to Israel, when it comes to the war in Gaza. Is that something that she would do? 
 
FULKS: Look, I think that the vice president has made her position clear on this and the fact that she wants there to be a ceasefire. I think you heard President Biden acknowledge it last night. And they are both working tirelessly. 
 
KEILAR: So they don't she's clear on it? They're asking for something more? 
 
FULKS: Look, I think that the Vice President has been clear on it, like I said. And I think that what we're seeing at this Convention tonight is solid support behind Vice President Harris and Governor Walz. And so we're going to continue to enjoy the convention. 
 
Obviously, everyone can make their voices heard on this issue. Both Vice President Harris and President Biden are working tirelessly to bring this issue to a close. And so that's what they're going to continue to do. 
 
KEILAR: So are you comfortable with where she is without doing anything else when it comes to the demands of folks like this? Are you comfortable that she has the votes she needs from people who've had concerns over that? 
 
FULKS: Look, I think that Vice President Harris has the votes that she needs. But obviously, this is an evolving situation. And I don't want to be callous or dismissive about it at all. But this is obviously a foreign policy situation. It's something that has major impacts around the world. And again, so I am not the best person to sit here and say how far someone's policy should go on this or that. But what I do know is that Vice President Harris has been very clear on her position on this issue and that she wants there to be a cease fire.
 
KEILAR: What is her goal on Thursday? What will we be hearing from her? 
 
FULKS: I think her goal is going to be how she is going to move the country forward. At the end of the day, this election is a fundamental choice between two different visions for this country. One where we are lowering costs for people, protecting freedoms for people, and making sure that we are creating opportunity for everybody not to just get by, but to get ahead. And on the other side, under Donald Trump and J.D. Vance, you have an extreme unstable Project 2025 agenda, a plan that is going to hurt people. 
 
And I think you're going to hear Vice President Harris both lay out what that plan is and how it would hurt people. But most importantly, her vision and Governor Walz's vision for the future of this country.
 
KEILAR: Quentin, can you react? I'm sure you've seen this Axios reporting where it's stressing that Harris has a history of being somewhat risk-averse and pointing out a pattern of choreographed appearances no interviews, few gaggles with reporters. What do you think about that? And do you think at a certain point that she needs -- you're kind of -- you're chuckling. So just react to that, but also, at a certain point, does she need to kind of throw some of that out the window? 
 
FULKS: Look, I don't think that this has anything to do with being risk-averse. So I think this has to do with making sure that you're interviewing with the people who are going to decide who gets the job. And that is the American voters. And Vice President Harris has been out from the moment she became the top of the ticket, talking to American voters, 10s of thousands of voters showing up for rallies, smaller events, laying out her vision. We have 77 days. And this is a job interview with the American people for 77 days. And that's where the Vice President's focus is.
 
KEILAR: Finally, Quentin, the most important question. I'm sure you've anticipated this. 
 <br>[14:25:01]
 
Will we be seeing Beyonce or Taylor Swift in person or virtually? And just to note that your credibility is completely on the line here as you answer this question. 
 
FULKS: I don't know any plans like that. For right now, we're going to be happy with the use of the song. The Vice President loves walking out to it and so we'll see what happens from there. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Quentin, we will see. There's so much chatter, but I keep hearing people kind of dampening it down, although there could be a surprise effect, so -- 
 
FULKS: No idea. 
 
KEILAR: No?
 
FULKS: Really. 
 
KEILAR: All right. Okay. Quentin Fulks, thank you so much. Really appreciate the time. 
 
FULKS: Thank you for having me. I appreciate it. 
 
KEILAR: And coming up, U.S. intelligence now confirming Iran was behind hacking attempts that targeted both the Trump and Biden-Harris campaigns. New details on what they found. Plus, Disney backtracking on a wrongful death lawsuit. The company had claimed a widower's Disney Plus agreement prevented his lawsuit. What the Company is saying now? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)