Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: At Least Four Killed In Georgia High School Shooting; Georgia School Shooter Is In Police Custody; Harris' Plans To Support Small Businesses; Liz Cheney Voting For Harris; Russia Trying To Influence U.S. 2024 Election; Israeli Protesters Demand Hostage-Ceasefire Deal; Netanyahu Insists Israel Must Control Philadelphi Corridor; U.S. Steel Stock Falling; President Biden To Block Japan's Nippon Steel Takeover; U.S. Service Member Detained In Caracas; Self-Driving Trucks On The Road In 2025. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired September 04, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Now, all of this comes, of course, as the president has been here at the White House monitoring the 
 
 school shooting that happened earlier today in Georgia, of course, putting out a statement lamenting the lives lost and also calling on Congress to 
 
 take additional action. Jake.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: All right. MJ Lee with the latest. Thanks so much. The news continues on CNN with Wolf Blitzer in the Situation Room.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, "FIRST MOVE": It's 7:00 a.m. in Tokyo, 5:00 p.m. in Bogota, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a welcome as always, to "First Move." And here's today's need to know. Four people have died, nine are hospitalized after a high school shooting 
 
 in the United States. A 14-year-old student is in police custody. Kamala Harris announces plans to support small businesses and breaks with 
 
 President Biden on raising the capital gains tax. Deal dashed. U.S. Steel stock falls as President Biden looks set to block a takeover by Japan's 
 
 Nippon Steel. And trucking without truckers. The NVIDIA-backed firm using generative A.I. to transform logistics. That conversation and plenty more 
 
 coming up.
 
But first to an appalling tragedy in the United States, at the start of a new term, another high school dealing with the immediate aftermath of a 
 
 mass shooting. Two students and two teachers lost their lives at the Apalachee High School in Winder, Georgia, just outside Atlanta. And at 
 
 least three other people were being treated at nearby hospitals for gunshot wounds. A 14-year-old suspect is in custody.
 
We're hearing stories of students barricaded inside classrooms, texting messages to their families, reports of terrified parents racing to the 
 
 school, not knowing if their children were among the victims. This student told CNN she was in fear for her life.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was scared I was going to die, to be honest. And when I heard hard lockdown, I knew it wasn't a drill. I immediately texted 
 
 my dad and I was just like, I don't know if this is a drill. I'm really scared. And I just kept my feet up and I prayed and I closed my eyes and I 
 
 tried to stay calm and -- but I was shaking. I was worried that they would hear me. But when I heard gunshots I was just -- I knew.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Officials say the suspect, Colt Gray, who is a student at the school will be charged with murder and as an adult. The county sheriff said 
 
 love will prevail over hate.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHERIFF JUD SMITH, BARROW COUNTY, GEORGIA'S SHERIFF'S OFFICE: My heart hurts for these kids. My heart hurts for our community. But I want to make 
 
 it very clear that hate will not prevail in this county. I want that to be very clear and known. Love will prevail over what happened today. I assure 
 
 you of that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Meanwhile, President Joe Biden says he's mourning the deaths and said, quote, "We cannot continue to accept this as normal." Once again, 
 
 urging Congress to pass an assault weapons ban.
 
Gustavo Valdes joins us now from the school. Gustavo, it's a community once again in the United States in mourning. What more do we know, first and 
 
 foremost, about the victims, their families, and those that are injured and how they're doing?
 
GUSTAVO VALDES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Julia, we know that two of the victims, the fatal victims are teachers, the other ones are students. Police say 
 
 that the two research officers that are stationed in the school responded quickly. So, they were able to stop the suspect, a freshman in this high 
 
 school, very quickly, but not before he killed these four people and wounded nine more.
 
They say there was no incident. He did not engage with the officers who quickly arrested them and took him into the police station. They said, 
 
 initially, he did talk, but they did not give details as to why he might have done what he is accused of have done.
 
We heard those testimonies, the students who told us once and again that they heard the shots. They didn't believe it was a real situation until 
 
 they heard the sirens, the alarms in the classroom. The alerts in their monitors saying that there was a shooting, they should be on lockdown. But 
 
 many of them said they also witnessed how teachers and students were shot. Others told us how as they left their classroom they saw the trail of blood 
 
 from those who had been injured until they got to safety.
 
Their reunification took a little longer because this is a rural county. Even though we're close, we're part of the metropolitan Atlanta area, this 
 
 is a place where parents had to travel from far to come and rejoin their children who were let go little by little.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
The messages that they share with us, the fear they share with their parents, that is an experience, they say, they will never forget. And now, 
 
 they're trying to find out why these 14-year-old, a classmate of them, did open fire in this school.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, just one of the questions that we're asking tonight. Gustavo Valdes, thank you for that. I want to bring in senior national 
 
 security analyst Juliette Kayyem. She's a Harvard professor and a former assistant secretary at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Juliette, 
 
 good to have you with us. I think a lot of people tonight asking how does a 14-year-old get hold of a gun, enter his own school, kill four people, 
 
 injure many more? Simply how does that happen?
 
JULIETTE KAYYEM, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST AND HARVARD PROFESSOR: It's a particularly American question in some ways, because no 
 
 other country has this kind of violence in particular at schools. I mean, the first answer is, of course, access to guns, that the amount of damage 
 
 that can be done in the short period of time. We're seeing today, four people, two adults, two children killed in a situation that seemed to have 
 
 de-escalated relatively quickly because there were law enforcement officers stationed at the school and they -- and he -- and the gunman surrendered.
 
I think secondly is Georgia is a very permissive gun state. So, in the United States, each state has their own gun rules. Georgia falls well 
 
 within, I would say, ranks very high in permissiveness, that cuts across the board. So, it just means that it is not only easy to get guns there, 
 
 it's now a manufacturing state. And so, adults have more guns.
 
And then, the third part of this is, OK, so how did a kid get a gun? Let's just assume he has -- you know, he was angry, maybe there was some 
 
 suggestion he was violent, that's the question we need to find out. Was it the parents that he got or some other means? So, the totality is how this 
 
 happens, and it's quite familiar here in the United States.
 
CHATTERLEY: And what we heard from authorities today, Juliette, about this 14-year-old child is that he is communicating with authorities that when he 
 
 was confronted by officials, he complied with instructions. It seems like he wanted to injure, he wanted to kill people today as a result of what he 
 
 did, but he didn't want to die himself, apparently.
 
KAYYEM: That's right. So, most of this -- half of all mass shootings end in a death, either by law enforcement or suicide. So, he not only was he 
 
 complying at the moment of engagement, but he now seems to be talking. That suggests someone who is not aware of the consequences of what he did or the 
 
 consequences for him of what he did. He's going to be tried as an adult in Georgia, and depending on the charges against him, that can mean severe 
 
 penalty, including death.
 
So, you know, these are -- this suggests someone who wanted to be caught, wanted to make a message out of the shooting and wanted to make himself 
 
 famous and alive through that process.
 
CHATTERLEY: The other thing, and Juliette, you said it at the beginning, this is a uniquely American problem, a uniquely American conversation that 
 
 we're now having. We're also two months out from a presidential election, and I don't want to take what is a tragedy, another tragedy tonight, and 
 
 politicize it, but do you think it plays into the election, that it moves the needle on taking further action, and limits that the majority of the 
 
 country want to see?
 
KAYYEM: OK. You know, I think I've -- you know, I've been an analyst with you all for a long time. I was very wary the day of, you know, saying 
 
 anything but, you know, I look at the numbers and instead of viewing this as a political conversation, we just have to view it as a failure of 
 
 policy, right? That this is -- that there's no reason why we are -- this country is such an outlier. Other countries have isolation of teenage 
 
 males. They have mental health issues. But because of the access, which is a public policy choice in this country. It's not politics, just our 
 
 policies are failing these kids and their parents and all these communities. That is something that we can address.
 
And it's not elimination of all guns, it is responsible and smart gun restrictions, in particular ones that make it more difficult for teenagers 
 
 to have access. So, you could have lock box rules for people with minors in the house. This is not a Second Amendment violation, it is just pure 
 
 safety. And so, there are ways in which public policy can help drive changes that would reflect the vast majority of where Americans want this 
 
 country to be.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. It's a policy conversation, it's a human conversation, and it's a heartbreak conversation for everyone involved in that community 
 
 tonight. Juliette Kayyem, thank you.
 
All right. Turning to U.S. politics. Now, Kamala Harris spoke in New Hampshire a short while ago to announce new details if there's still 
 
 evolving economic agenda. The Democratic presidential candidate says her policies will help strengthen small businesses and boost American 
 
 entrepreneurs. Included in her plan is sizable increase in tax deductions for small business startups.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: The current tax deduction for a startup is just $5,000. OK. So, 
 
 then you got to make up the delta there, you got to figure out how you're going to do that. Not everyone has access to that kind of wealth and 
 
 capital. So, part of my plan is we will expand the tax deduction for startups to $50,000.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Five million new small business applications filed in the United States by the end of her first term if elected. She also broke with 
 
 her boss, President Joe Biden, on a critical issue for investors, raising the level of capital gains tax.
 
Stephen Collinson joins us now. Stephen, what do you make of what we heard from her today? Splashy policy, 10 times increase in the tax deduction for 
 
 some of these startups. The impact we can debate, quite frankly, but it was a sidestep with President Biden raising capital gains tax, but by a lot 
 
 less than what he's was originally talking about.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER: Yes, that's very interesting. That particular proposal, Julia, Biden was talking about -- I 
 
 think, about the 39 percent. She's talking about 28 percent increase. Of course, all of this is academic because it depends what you can get through 
 
 the Congress.
 
But I think you're right to say it's splashy and especially in terms of politics. I think what the vice president is trying to do is threefold 
 
 here. She has to separate herself in some way from the president. Americans aren't happy with this administration. If she's just seen as the second 
 
 term of Joe Biden, she's probably not going to beat Donald Trump. So, that's what she's doing there.
 
She also has, in some ways, moved towards the middle on economic policy and other issues. She's being lambasted by the Trump campaign as a communist, a 
 
 Bolshevik, a San Francisco liberal. So, this helps her, I think, mitigate a little bit about of that image. And a cynic might say she's been doing a 
 
 lot of talk to rich Democratic donors who have lots of their wealth caught up in capital gains and investments and they've poured half a billion 
 
 dollars into her campaign. So, this is something that's probably going to please them as well.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, she's for small businesses, certainly in this country, while still saying that she's going to tax the bigger ones. Yes, 
 
 interesting take. Look, this just into CNN and I want to get your view, Stephen, on this too. Former Republican Congresswoman Liz Cheney said she's 
 
 voting for Kamala Harris for president now. She made the remarks at Duke University.
 
According to audio that we've obtained, she said, quote, "As a conservative, as someone who believes in and cares about the constitution, 
 
 I've thought deeply about this and because of the danger that Donald Trump poses, not only am I voting for Donald Trump, but I will be voting -- not 
 
 voting, forgive me, for Donald Trump, but I'll be voting for Kamala Harris."
 
Cheney, just to be clear, previously said she's committed to doing what's necessary to stop Former President Donald Trump from returning to the White 
 
 House. And just a quick reminder, she is the daughter of former Republican Vice President Dick Cheney. Just to be clear, Stephen, we know from recent 
 
 polls, the economy for the majority of likely voters is important, but I think preserving the constitution also is vitally important and backs that 
 
 up beyond that. What do you make of her comments?
 
COLLINSON: Well, no one would confuse Liz Cheney or Dick Cheney as a liberal. They're both deeply conservative until about two years ago, Liz 
 
 Cheney was being tipped as a potential Republican speaker, but she broke with Donald Trump over the aftermath of the January 6th riot on the 
 
 Capitol.
 
She actually sat on the committee in the Democratic Congress that investigated that, and she lost her place in the Republican leadership and 
 
 ultimately, her seat in Congress from Wyoming. So, it's no surprise she's against Donald Trump.
 
In terms of the political impact of this, it's interesting that she didn't come out with other Republicans during the Democratic Convention. I think 
 
 the campaign probably wanted to delay it, to make a bit more of an impact later in the campaign. I think, you know, this isn't going to change the 
 
 election, but she could be very useful to Kamala Harris trying to talk to perhaps more conservative female voters in the suburbs. The Harris campaign 
 
 is trying to lower Trump's margins by targeting some Republicans in rural areas who don't like the way that Donald Trump behaves.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
So, she could be quite an effective messenger towards them. But the base of the Republican Party, if it turns out, is what will elect Trump, I don't 
 
 think it's going to have an awful lot of impact with those voters.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, we can talk about the swing states. I mean, Kamala's got an advantage over the former president among likely voters in Wisconsin, in 
 
 Michigan, he's got the edge in Arizona. But actually, what stood out for me from all the data that we're now pouring over is the number of people that 
 
 still haven't firmly decided among likely voters, and it's an average of around 15 percent.
 
So, whether it's a policy on the economy, and you can pick whatever else we want to do, there's still a lot of undecided people. And it makes 
 
 conversations like what we saw today from Kamala Harris, the debate, in a week's time, arguably still important for making the minds up of a whole 
 
 host of people across the country and in these swing states.
 
COLLINSON: That's right. And 15 percent, I think, especially given the fact that one of the candidates in this race is Donald Trump, who everyone's 
 
 known about for eight years at least, is quite a large number. That might reflect the fact that Harris has only been in this race for six weeks or 
 
 so. There are still many Americans, perhaps, that are waiting for that debate to find out what they really think about it. If they can see her as 
 
 a potential president.
 
What that number suggests is that the candidate that closes the most strongly, that can make the strongest argument to this small slice of 
 
 voters comparatively who are still undecided probably is going to win this election because we're talking of those polls we had coming out suggest 
 
 that Georgia and Pennsylvania are the key states. If either candidate wins both of those, they're going to end up in the White House.
 
Those states were decided last time around by, I think, 1.2 percent. Biden won Philadelphia by, Pennsylvania by, he won Georgia by about 11,000 votes. 
 
 So, I think we're going to see very much the same thing this time around. And those undecided voters are going to be absolutely crucial, the ones 
 
 that you just identified.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, that's the path to the White House. Steven Collinson, great to have you as always. Thank you.
 
COLLINSON: Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, the Biden administration has launched a series of accusations that Russia saying the Kremlin's trying to influence the 2024 
 
 presidential election. The Justice Department says Russia's targeting U.S. voters with a covert A.I. generated online disinformation campaign.
 
So, far, 32 internet domain names have been seized. The U.S. also charging two employees at Russia's state controlled media outlet, RT. Paula Reid has 
 
 more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Today, the Justice Department announced indictments against two employees of Russia 
 
 Today, a state-controlled media outlet funded and directed by the Russian government, alleging it's part of a broader effort to influence the U.S. 
 
 presidential election.
 
MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: As part of that effort, RT and its employees, including the defendants, implemented a nearly $10 million 
 
 scheme to fund and direct a Tennessee-based company, to publish and disseminate content deemed favorable to the Russian government.
 
REID (voice-over): The company then allegedly contracted with U.S.-based social media influencers to amplify the content.
 
GARLAND: The American people are entitled to know when a foreign power is attempting to exploit our country's free exchange of ideas in order to send 
 
 around its own propaganda. And that is what we alleged happened in this case.
 
REID (voice-over): Prosecutors say the goal was to sow divisions in the U.S. to weaken opposition to core Russian interests, particularly its 
 
 ongoing war in Ukraine and to help Donald Trump get re-elected.
 
GARLAND: More generally, the director of national intelligence has testified that Russia's preferences have not changed from the preceding 
 
 election.
 
REID (voice-over): While the attorney general didn't mention the former president by name, he did reference Russia's previous efforts to back him. 
 
 A RT spokesman responded to today's indictments with mockery, saying, 2016 called and it wants its cliches back. And, three things are certain in 
 
 life, death, taxes, and RT's interference in the U.S. elections.
 
Remember this?
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 e-mails 
 
 that are missing.
 
REID (voice-over): The two employees charged in the case allegedly managed the operation from Moscow using fake personas and shell companies. The 
 
 department also announced the seizure of 32 domains tied to an alleged Russian propaganda campaign.
 
GARLAND: These websites were designed to appear to American readers as if they were major U.S. news sites, like The Washington Post or Fox News. But 
 
 in fact, they were fake sites.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Thanks to Paula Reid there. And now to Jerusalem, where Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke hours ago to foreign media, firmly 
 
 reiterating he wants Israel to maintain control of the Philadelphi Corridor, even though Hamas says that's a nonstarter.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Prime Minister, Jeremy Diamond, CNN. I spoke to Aviva Siegel tonight, a former hostage whose 
 
 husband is still being held in Gaza. She told me that she believes that you are sentencing her husband, Keith, to die by prioritizing the Philadelphi 
 
 Corridor over a deal. And she has this question for you, is Keith going to come home alive or dead?
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: I'll do everything to make sure that Keith and all the other hostages come back. I'm telling you that if we 
 
 relieve the pressure, if we get out of the Philadelphi Corridor, we're not going to get the hostages back. Certainly, we're going to condemn a lot of 
 
 them to stay there. We could get a few out. They'll give us that. But they'll leave a lot with them. We won't have the pressure point. And 
 
 something else will happen. We will not be able to come back.
 
So, we won't release all the hostages. And we won't achieve the defenses that we must have to prevent more October 7th again and again and again. I 
 
 don't stand in judgment of these tormented souls because they're undergoing an agony that is hard to fathom, and I understand that. But the 
 
 responsibility of leaders is not merely to share the sentiment, the emotion, but also to exercise judgment, the correct judgment to make sure 
 
 that these horrors do not happen again. I believe that our strategy is the best way to achieve both goals.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: It follows new reporting that Prime Minister Netanyahu derailed a draft hostage and ceasefire deal back in July by adding a number of 11th 
 
 hour demands, including control of the Philadelphi Corridor as he explains there the reasoning why.
 
Large crowds are now protesting in Israel for the fourth day in a row. Among them, family members of hostages still held in Gaza. The bodies of 
 
 six hostages were recovered over the weekend, sparking renewed demands for a ceasefire deal.
 
Stay with "First Move." Plenty more to come.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move" and a bit of September stability on Wall Street. Topping today's Money Move. U.S. stocks finishing mixed and 
 
 volatile day of trading with new numbers showing U.S. job openings at their lowest level since 2021. It's another sign that the U.S. jobs market is 
 
 cooling but it's not collapsing.
 
The NASDAQ also falling again, but far from the 3 percent losses of the previous session, NVIDIA stock in the red again, though, off another 1.5 
 
 percent and adding to Tuesday's near 10 percent loss. Shares of the A.I. chip giant, losing more than $300 billion worth of market cap in just two 
 
 days amid fears that it's the focus of a U.S. antitrust investigation. NVIDIA, however, on Wednesday, denying a report that it had received a 
 
 subpoena.
 
Wall Street woes spilling into Asia too. The Nikkei off more than 4 percent Wednesday. Taiwan stock exchange falling even further due to sharp losses 
 
 in chip stocks like Taiwan's semiconductor.
 
And in other business news, a brand-new blow to the proposed purchase of U.S. Steel by Japan's Nippon Steel. Shares of U.S. Steel tumbling 17 
 
 percent on reports the Biden administration will move to officially block the $14 billion deal. The White House opposes the tie up in part because of 
 
 the potential for job losses, but U.S. Steel warning of job losses and plant closures if the deal doesn't go through. Kamala Harris and Donald 
 
 Trump are also opposed to the purchase as they try to shore up support in steel strongholds like Swing State, Pennsylvania.
 
Catherine Rampel joins us now. Now, Catherine, if we were having this conversation around 100 years ago, then maybe we could argue on both 
 
 economic and/or on security grounds that this deal doesn't go through. But it's not 100 years ago. So, quite frankly, we can't. This is pure politics.
 
CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL COMMENTATOR AND WASHINGTON POST OPINION COLUMNIST: Yes, this is pandering. Although, it's the kind of 
 
 pandering that might sound like it works in the short-term, but might actually cause more harm with the population that they are trying to pander 
 
 to in the long run, because, as you said, this deal or scuttling this deal, rather, may put more jobs in steel country at risk.
 
In fact, U.S. Steel has already, in the last few years, idled big portions of some of its plants, and I think has shrunk its hourly workforce by about 
 
 4,000 workers. This is despite the fact that there have been many other protectionist measures intended to help U.S. Steel among other domestic 
 
 manufacturers over the years, including tariffs.
 
U.S. Steel needs a savior. Nippon Steel is a very productive company. It's a successful company. It has promised to make big investments in some of 
 
 the existing plants owned by U.S. Steel and it seems like a pretty good savior in this scenario, and the fact that it's owned by -- or that it's a 
 
 Japanese company, rather, I don't think should give anyone pause, especially since Japan is a very important economic and national security 
 
 ally for the United States, including in our efforts to get China to behave better in this market.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean, big investments like $2.7 billion in union represented facilities in both Pennsylvania and Indiana. And U.S. Steel's CEO has come 
 
 out and said, look, we're not going to make those investments without this deal because we simply don't have the money. Catherine, if this deal 
 
 doesn't go through and this isn't just the union, the Steel unions working perhaps to get a better deal, what are the alternatives for U.S. Steel?
 
RAMPELL: I think it's not really clear. Viewers may recall that another American company, Cleveland-Cliffs, had tried to buy U.S. Steel last year. 
 
 There was a bit of a bidding war, in fact, between Cleveland-Cliffs and Nippon Steel. But ultimately, U.S. Steel rejected that offer, because among 
 
 other things, it said that Cleveland-Cliffs was pressuring U.S. Steel to not do its due diligence on the deal.
 
The auto industry in the United States also was very opposed to that particular acquisition, you know, or the merger of two American steel 
 
 companies because they said that that would lead to too much concentration in the U.S. steel market and lead to higher downstream costs for other 
 
 American companies that depend on steel as an input.
 
For every one steel industry job that might be protected by raising costs for steel, there are something like 75 or 80 downstream workers who are 
 
 affected and who potentially have their jobs at risk, whether they work for automakers or appliance makers, et cetera.
 
So, if, in fact, that offer were to be revived, Cleveland-Cliffs going after U.S. Steel, that potentially would lead to less competition, and it's 
 
 not clear that would be a better outcome, in fact, for the manufacturing or unionized workforce in the United States.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
And to be clear, I don't even know that that's on the table here, but that's pretty much what the union -- the steelworkers union has said in the 
 
 past they would like to happen.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, we can reconvene on this after the election on whether the better deal, which is Nippon's deal, at least for workers, it seems, and 
 
 for shareholders happens post-election. Catherine Rampell, thank you for your wisdom.
 
RAMPELL: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, Southwest China racing for Typhoon Yagi. It's expected to make landfall there on Friday. The latest data shows the typhoon is picking 
 
 up speed and could become a super typhoon. It's fueled by rising ocean temperatures with human caused global warming largely to blame. 
 
 Meteorologist Chad Myers joins us now. What actually is a super typhoon, Chad?
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Well, when you get into what would be considered a Category 4 Atlantic hurricane, Category 5 almost. This is 
 
 going to be very, very close.
 
So, a typhoon, then all of a sudden, you ramp that all the way up to somewhere over about 240 kilometers per hour. That's where we're going with 
 
 this. This will be a devastating event for parts of Southwest China, from Zhangjiajie all the way over toward Haiku, Hainan. This is going to be the 
 
 area where shipping has already been basically shut down. We are talking about 20-to-30-meter waves under that storm right now. You are not going to 
 
 put an ocean-going container ship in the water when you have this here. So, that's already putting boats and ships back into port.
 
But more on the personal scale, what does this do to the people there of Hainan? We know in the Philippines, we've already had a half a meter of 
 
 rain and some of the mountain areas that we don't even have measuring tapes for, likely closer to a meter. But as this makes its way somewhere between 
 
 Hainan and Mainland China, very close to Zhangjiajie and also even toward Haiku, we have tens of millions of people in the way.
 
This is not just a storm that's going to hit an unpopulated area. There will be millions of people without power. There will be wind speeds on land 
 
 of 220 to 230 kilometers per hour. So, this is going to be a big one. This is going to be a devastating storm for a lot of people. And it doesn't stop 
 
 there. It goes all the way into Hanoi. An awful lot of rain. Winds are still going to be about 160 KPH as it gets into Hanoi.
 
So, here's what we're talking about. This is one of the computer models right now. Puts Haiku right in the eye. Will it be left or right of there? 
 
 Probably. But still, you're still going to talk about a big, big impact for this storm, for all of the people there.
 
You look at the population density of the area here, Zhangjiajie being like 7 million, Haiku 2 to 3 million people who, all of a sudden, you have so 
 
 many people in the way of a devastating event.
 
Back out toward the Western United States, we're seeing pretty tough event out here too. Temperatures almost in the 40-degree range here. We'll go 
 
 with 117 on Friday for Palm Springs, 118 for Thursday. That's hot. And I know it's supposed to be hot, but it's supposed to be cooling down by now, 
 
 and it isn't. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Extreme weather wherever we look. And of course, it's Thursday morning. People waking up to that in China, of course, too. And 
 
 we'll continue to track it. Chad, thank you. Chad Myer's there.
 
We'll be right back. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more international headlines this hour. A shooting at a high school in Winder, Georgia has 
 
 left two students and two teachers dead. Authorities say nine others were shot and taken to local hospitals. Police say a 14-year-old suspect who 
 
 attended the school is in custody and we'll be charged as an adult.
 
Former Republican Congresswoman Liz Cheney says she's voting for Kamala Harris for president. She said she will be voting for Harris because of the 
 
 danger Donald Trump poses. Cheney was part of the Congressional Committee investigating the president's actions leading up to the Jan. 6 riot in the 
 
 Capitol. And she's the daughter of Former Republican Vice President Dick Cheney.
 
In Venezuela, a U.S. service member has been detained in Caracas. The White House has confirmed news of the detention and says the U.S. is in touch 
 
 with Venezuelan authorities. One official telling CNN the military member is being held by a Venezuelan intelligence agency.
 
Venezuela has seen weeks of unrest following July's disputed presidential election. And in a bizarre turn of events, U.S. President Nicolas Maduro 
 
 has declared Christmas will come early this year, beginning October 1st.
 
Stefano Pozzebon joins us now from Bogota in Colombia. We'll come back to Christmas, Stefano. What more do we know about this U.S. service member 
 
 that's been detained, if anything?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Yes, Julia. Unfortunately, we don't have many details about this U.S. service member. We know that he's a sailor in the 
 
 U.S. Navy. We know that he's active duty, which, of course, is the highest cause of concern right now for U.S. officials who are trying to him home as 
 
 quickly as possible.
 
We know that Venezuela has detained several U.S. citizens in the past, many of whom were double Venezuelan citizens, for example, but none of them was 
 
 an active member of the military.
 
There are a lot of questions unanswered at this point, the biggest one being why was he in Caracas? How could he travel to Venezuela, given that 
 
 U.S. citizens would need a visa to enter Venezuela and that normally U.S. members of the military would need to ask permission to their security 
 
 staff in order to travel to a country with the amount of sanctions and rhetoric that we see almost daily between Washington and Caracas.
 
What we know for sure, Julia, is that this will complicate any further negotiation and any further transaction between the White House and Nicolas 
 
 Maduro, who, of course, will now have yet another card to play in maybe a future negotiation with the U.S. officials, state department officials, 
 
 like the ones that we've covered in the past, around his controversial election. He's getting ready for that, and perhaps even the Christmas story 
 
 is part of that strategy.
 
CHATTERLEY: Christmas lover, Stefano, I'll be honest. I'm not sure how I feel about it beginning or the holiday season, at least beginning on 
 
 October 1st, nor the method of which people were informed that this was going to take place. There's not many presidents with their own television 
 
 shows either. Tell us the implications and the decision of Nicholas Maduro to bring Christmas forward?
 
POZZEBON: Yes, apart from the funny side of the news, Maduro said it on Monday afternoon, he said that suddenly it's September and September smells 
 
 like Christmas, which I don't know what he really was referring to.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
What he actually means in practical terms is that public workers in Venezuela will probably work reduced hours. They will work maybe fewer days 
 
 of the week because of the supposed festivities for the next three months. And that most of the government handouts, that the socialist government 
 
 still gives out to many millions of Venezuelans will have a Christmas menu.
 
I was speaking with other producers today and they asked me if it's -- Venezuelans will eat turkey for the rest of the year. Well, you don't eat 
 
 turkey in Venezuela for Christmas, but you do eat carved ham. So, you will see more of that on the streets.
 
I think that what Maduro is pointing at is actually giving a sense of normality, giving a sense of quiet and portraying an image that he's in 
 
 charge. And that there is nothing that can move the needle back into the opposition favor after that controversial election on July 28th. We have 
 
 seen over the last few weeks, dwindling numbers in the protest that called out by the opposition because of the brutal crackdown and the repression at 
 
 the hands of Maduro's military forces.
 
And by now switching the attention so early, but to the end of the year, to the Christmas festivities, to something different than the political battle 
 
 is just a message for Maduro to shout to anybody involved that he is the person the charge in Venezuela.
 
One funny note before you let me go is that the Episcopal Conference in Venezuela protested, I'm sorry, the move saying that Christmas, of course, 
 
 happens on December 25 and that a holiday -- of Christian holiday should not be used for political reasons. But we know that Maduro will not feel 
 
 obliged to abide by the indications of the Venezuelan bishops given the way he rules this country, unfortunately. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Critics might call it a desperate distraction, Stefano. But what do we know? Thank you so much for that report there. Stefano 
 
 Pozzobon in Bogota, Colombia.
 
All right. Coming up after the break, the trucking industry facing a crisis. In the U.S. alone, over a million drivers will be needed in the 
 
 next two years to keep pace with demand for logistics and deliveries. After the break, we'll hear from an A.I. visionary offering a self-driving 
 
 solution. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." Trucking keeps the world's supply chains moving, but acute labor shortages coupled with environmental and 
 
 safety concerns continue to challenge the industry too. Autonomous trucks have long been promised, but are yet to deliver. However, my next guest 
 
 says she's well on the way to changing all that, working with existing manufacturers, Canadian startup Waabi uses NVIDIA powered chips to offer 
 
 what it calls a safe, efficient, and scalable solution with safety in the spotlight.
 
Waabi we says trains its trucks with an A.I. powered Metaverse-based simulator, and big tech is starting to pay attention. Investors include 
 
 Uber, NVIDIA and Volvo's venture wing have chipped in with $20 million. And you can expect the first trucks on the road next year.
 
Raquel Urtasun was the chief scientist at Uber's self-driving unit, Time Magazine named her among the top 100 most influential people in A.I. last 
 
 year, and she also happens to be the CEO of Waabi. Raquel, great to have you on the show.
 
I actually have looked at your CV. You spent, what, the best part of two decades working in self-driving vehicle technology sphere. You understand 
 
 the challenges, I think, better than most. Why is an A.I. first approach the best approach in your mind?
 
RAQUEL URTASUN, CEO WAABI: Yes, great question, Julia. And really a pleasure to be here today. So, what we observed over the last two decades 
 
 is that, you know, the -- what we call AB 1.0, a previous generation that was based on (INAUDIBLE) has had really difficulties to get the level of 
 
 ability to handle all the situations that happen on the road.
 
So, we nearly really a re-bumped in terms of the technology to get us to the next level. And what has become more and more clear is that generative 
 
 A.I. is that solution that when brought to the physical world can actually, you know, really generalize and handle, you know, all the, you know, 
 
 possible situations that arise, including safety critical.
 
So, this is the reason I started Waabi is to really double down on this new generation of technology and really build a company that can deliver in 
 
 this new vision.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. So, explain what this means in practice, because what you're doing is creating a software. It's trained for all the challenges, I 
 
 believe, the model at least is, for collisions, things that you have to avoid on the road, all the things that practically someone that's trying to 
 
 create self-autonomous technology or self-driving technology has to do in practice and experience. And we know there's challenges with that. I guess 
 
 A.I. does that more efficiently and more quickly.
 
URTASUN: Yes. So, there is two, I will say, technical challenges in, you know, previous generation. One is that the software that drives the trucks 
 
 itself is very hand engineered. And the second challenge is the ability to test that system at the scale where the current incumbents need to go and 
 
 drive, you know, millions of miles on the real world and it's -- you know, it's not sufficient and it's not the safest approach.
 
So, with -- you know, at Waabi, what we are doing is bringing in an end-to- end system that is, you know, a single A.I. system that is also interpretable so that you can validate and verify and has, you know, the, I 
 
 would say, tremendous power to really get to the next level. Together in power with a simulator, which is what you were talking about that, that 
 
 basically solves the data problem where you can teach the system to handle all possible situations, including safety, critical cases, unavoidable 
 
 accidents, et cetera. So, it always does the right thing.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. So, who are you working with? Who are you providing software with to get these self-driving vehicles on the road next year, 
 
 you're saying? And how do you convince what I think is remaining a sort of skeptical public that this is at least as safe as a human driver, if not, 
 
 you can tell me, more safe than a human driver?
 
URTASUN: Yes, yes. And it's definitely going to be safer than a human driver. It actually has many more eyes, can see farther than a human. Yes. 
 
 So, at Waabi, we focus on, you know, the software as well as we integrate sensors and compute. And we work together alongside our partners, which our 
 
 OEMs and, you know, as well as our customers think of it as both freight providers, like Uber Freight, which we announced a very large partnership 
 
 with them, as well as best in class shippers and fleets.
 
And today, you can see our trucks driving autonomously on public roads. They still have a safety driver, as every other company in the market, but 
 
 what you will see next year is our ability to launch without a queue. Another point, our trucks would be much safer than I think (ph).
 
CHATTERLEY: Will you ever work with Tesla and Elon Musk? He's taking time.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
URTASUN: Interesting question. So, you know, we have a very different -- you know, I would say, we both believe on the power of A.I. and we both 
 
 believe that we need to go beyond the traditional approach. We have a very different approach to how to build our company as well as the technology 
 
 itself. For us, interpretability, tracing decisions, being transparent, et cetera is -- and being safe and proven safe before deployment is a must. 
 
 So, I would say that those are the key differentiators.
 
CHATTERLEY: You're the CEO of Waabi and you're also a diplomat. Watch this space. Raquel, great to chat to you. Thank you so much. We'll keep up with 
 
 your progress. Fingers crossed for next year. Thank you.
 
URTASUN: Thanks, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: All right. Coming up. Britain's Jack Draper joins the club of first-time semifinalists at the U.S. Open. He's yet to drop a set at this 
 
 year's tournament. The details next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." Great Britain's Jack Draper has booked a semifinal slot at the U.S. Open. His straight set win over 
 
 Australia's Alex De Minaur lasted about two hours. He awaits either Daniil Medvedev or world number one Jannik Sinner.
 
And on the women's side, Karolina Muchova's comeback is rolling on too. She's in the semifinal for a second time after undergoing surgery on her 
 
 wrist. Patrick Snell joins us now. Patrick, it was all about the Americans yesterday. Today, it's about the Brits.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: Oh, yes. 22-year-old Jack Draper. What a story he is, Julia. He is through to his first ever Grand Slam semifinal. 
 
 Wonderful, wonderful moment for the young Englishman. He was up against a quality player as well from Australia, the number 10 seed, Alex de Minaur. 
 
 But Draper getting it done in straight sets.
 
You know, Draper had been on the rise all summer. I think that's fair to say. He memorably dispatched Carlos Alcaraz, no less, ahead of Wimbledon 
 
 earlier this year. This is the first time, though, he's made a really, really deep run at a slam. And who knows, who knows, he could go all the 
 
 way, we'll see, through to the last four without even dropping a set in five matches so far, Julia.
 
The Aussie player, I will say, de Minaur, remember earlier this year, he did suffer hip injuries. He had to withdraw from Wimbledon as well. It 
 
 hampered his appearances in the singles at the Paris Olympics. And again, on this occasion, appearing to be dealing with some more issues as well, 
 
 injury wise. We'll try and check up on that. Incredible win though for Draper, who was playing his first match as well on the famous Arthur Ashe 
 
 Stadium as well. That's always a special occasion for any young player.
 
He's now the first British male to reach the last four in New York since 2012, when Andy Murray did it. He will face either the winner of Jannik 
 
 Sinner and Daniil Medvedev as well. They play a little later on on this Wednesday.
 
The Italian world number one, speaking of Sinner, recently, just to reset for our viewers avoiding a suspension despite twice testing positive for a 
 
 prohibited substance in March. Sinner denying any wrongdoing. And as of right now, he looks really good. His form is superb. He remains on course 
 
 for a second Grand Slam title, having already, of course, won the Australian Open earlier this year. Medvedev, though, a former U.S. Open 
 
 champ. So, that one will not be easy.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
On the women's side of things, on Wednesday, Karolina Muchova, who you mentioned overcoming the Brazilian player, Beatriz Haddad Maia, 6-1, 6-4, 
 
 pretty straightforward in the end in straight sets to reach the New York semis for a second consecutive year. This is really impressive when you 
 
 consider all she's had to overcome, Julia, injury wise. She only returned to action in June after getting over that wrist injury that led to surgery 
 
 right at the start of the year, dispatching her opponents in 85 minutes or so. Despite having to deal with some hip issues as well. So, that's 
 
 something else to become aware of.
 
Muchova will next face either top seeded Iga Swiatek or the American six seeded Jessica Pegula for a place in the final. That match getting underway 
 
 in just a few moments there in New York City. And I know, Julia, you will have your eyes on it very closely indeed. It's a great U.S. Open. We're 
 
 loving every moment of it.
 
CHATTERLEY: We absolutely are. And you're completely right. I'm already ready. Poised and ready.
 
SNELL: Yes, I knew it. I absolutely knew it.
 
CHATTERLEY: I know. And what a recovery too. Fingers crossed. I'm being told to shut up. Yes, Patrick Snell, thank you so much. Another evening 
 
 planned out.
 
And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END