Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Subzero Temperatures Could Disrupt Iowa Caucuses; Haley, DeSantis Battling To Emerge As Alternative To Trump; Rushing: Not A Lot Of Buzz Around Iowa Democratic Caucuses; U.S. Launches Second Round Of Attacks On Houthi Targets; Massive Crowds In Yemen Protest U.S. And British Airstrikes. Aired 5-6a ET

Aired January 13, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
[05:00:30
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Warm welcome to all you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber.
 
Ahead on CNN Newsroom, Iowa turning into a ghost town as a blizzard moves through this as candidates try to get their message out to voters days before the Iowa caucuses. We'll go to Des Moines for the latest. Plus, the U.S. carrying out another round of strikes against Houthis in Yemen one day after hitting more than 30 locations. We'll get the escalation in the region as the war in Gaza rages on.
 
And Taiwan votes for a new president as fear grows over threats from China. We'll take you live to Hong Kong.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber.
 
BRUNHUBER: Only two days remain before the first nominating contest of the 2024 presidential race, the Iowa Republican caucuses, GOP candidates are working to make their final pitches before Iowa voters make their decisions on Monday. Donald Trump remains the overall Republican front runner, while Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis are pitching themselves as alternatives to the former president.
 
But powerful winter storm has brought blizzard conditions that are already impacting the contest. Multiple campaign events have been canceled or rescheduled as virtual meetups. Temperatures are expected to fall below zero and that's on the Fahrenheit scale on Monday night when the caucuses will be held. There are growing concerns that weather will have a negative impact on turnout. Parts of Iowa have already seen the snowiest week since 1942.
 
Additional accumulations could impact candidates' plans to barnstorm the state this weekend. CNN's Jessica Dean has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): With three days until the Iowa caucuses, the snow fell and fell and fell and campaign scrambled.
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You have to go and trudge through snow to be able to earn the vote you trudge through snow.
 
DEAN (voice-over): The snowfall is set to be followed by dangerously frigid temperatures heading into caucus day on Monday. Former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley canceled all of her in person events on Friday, instead opting for tele town halls.
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am so sorry that we couldn't be in Fort Dodge, but I didn't want to miss the opportunity to be able to communicate for all of you that were planning on coming out to see us on this snowy day in Iowa.
 
DEAN (voice-over): Most of Florida Governor Ron DeSantis' events were also called off, though he did add a last minute stop to meet with volunteers in Urbandale, Iowa.
 
DESANTIS: We didn't handle the snow even though we're Florida base campaign.
 
DEAN (voice-over): The forecast calls for sub-zero temperatures in the coming days with Monday expected to be the coldest caucus state ever in the Hawkeye State.
 
HALEY: I've been doing radio interviews. I've been on the phones with voters. We're trying to make sure we do everything that we can. And yes, the weather is a concern. I'm concerned because I want people to be safe on caucus day, it's going to be negative 28 Windchill. And so, what we hope is that they will wear layers, that they will bring their photo ID and that they will come out in caucus.
 
DEAN (voice-over): The candidates are already beginning to try and account for the likely record breaking cold on Monday.
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You got to make sure that everybody gets out doesn't say, well, you know it's a little cool up.
 
DEAN (voice-over): Former president and front runner Donald Trump's campaign is already adjusting expectations. His advisors have privately acknowledged to CNN his lead will likely be impacted by the weather on Monday, with much of his strategy built on turning out as many caucus goers as possible. DeSantis and the super PAC aligned with his campaign have long touted their organization and ground game in Iowa, which will be put to the test on Monday.
 
DESANTIS: The people that kind of come in and just, you know, spend 10s of millions of dollars and that's kind of it, they tend to underperform. But on our side is probably the best that anyone's been able to put together.
 
DEAN (voice-over): With a flurry of campaign events scheduled for the weekend. The weather could cause further disruptions on the trail with the entire GOP field planning to barnstorm the state over the next few days. In the meantime, a pro Haley super PAC has released a new ad to reach voters at home mocking DeSantis for his past support for Trump.
 
DESANTIS: Make America Great Again.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
DEAN (on camera): And that is the dynamic we have really seen unfold in the last week here on the ground in Iowa, this DeSantis versus Haley dynamic. And to that end, we learned on Friday that Governor DeSantis plans to make a pit stop in South Carolina before he heads to New Hampshire.
 <br>[05:05:03]
 
Now that's nontraditional, typically the candidates go right on to New Hampshire, it's the next -- it's the next state to vote. But that really, if you trust polling, is coming down to Trump and Haley. It's not a state that's likely going to be quite strong for DeSantis. Instead, he's trolling her a little bit going to her home state of South Carolina and hopes to perform better there. So that looks us -- takes us ahead to Monday, after the caucus here. We now know that the Florida Governor making that unconventional stuff in South Carolina before he heads to New Hampshire.
 
Jessica Dean, CNN, Des Moines.
 
BRUNHUBER: Joining me now is Ty Rushing, Senior editor for Iowa Starting Line. Thanks so much for being here with us.
 
So, so many challenges on the ground there. First, give us a sense of how bad the weather is there right now. Can you sort of share any stories about what you're -- what you're seeing so far on the ground there?
 
TY RUSHING, SENIOR EDITOR, IOWA STARTING LINE: It is bad. I mean, we got 10 inches of snow here in central Iowa earlier in the week. And now we have a once in a decade blizzard coming down on us, like on top of all of that previous snow. And then we're expecting record low temperatures on Monday for the caucus itself.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, just terrible timing. We've already seen candidates canceling events in these crucial days leading up to Monday. How big of a factor will that be there in Iowa where retail politics in person campaigning is so important?
 
RUSHING: Well, I mean, you have some candidates like Vivek Ramaswamy who is trying his best to make everything in person. Still, circumstances be damned. I mean, I think the day after we had our first big snowstorm, you had Nikki Haley having a 9:30 event, and one of the Des Moines suburbs is still drawn about 30, 40 people. So, like, folks are still getting out there to see people if they get an opportunity too. I mean, because you know, this is -- this is kind of our norm here.
 
Like, you know, a bad weather isn't too much of a deterrent here for a lot of people. And they're still expecting a big caucus turnout on Monday, even with record low temps. BRUNHUBER: Yes, I mean, bad weather is one thing. It looks like what's happening is, you know, could be potentially dangerous. And for the candidates, there are fears that it might impact turnout despite, you know, what you say, of course, people are used to bad weather, but you know, cars might fail to start, they might break down, people going on their way to the locations and so on, people might not want to wait out in the freezing cold. The Trump campaign had been hoping for a huge sort of knockout win on Monday. How do you think that the turnout might affect that or the other campaigns? You know, a low sample makes Iowa -- you know, could it make the Iowa wildcard, you know, possibly even wilder?
 
RUSHING: I mean, it could, but I -- you know, I would think it'd be a low turnout. Like, I think a lot of people are going to brave the elements and find a way to get there. Especially Trump supporters. I mean, his base and his people are like, they're just so passionate about him, like the cult of personality around him is stronger than any other candidate. And like, they will find a way to get there and show their support for him.
 
I mean, at his rallies here in Iowa, he's, you know, tell people how important it is for them to caucus and go out there and support him. He wants a big victory. And he's like, you know, we can't get it done later on once we get it done here in Iowa first.
 
BRUNHUBER: So, you're talking about Trump's enduring popularity. But what's the mood there about the other candidates? What are people saying, you know, obviously, Trump has that huge lead, but does it feel like Nikki Haley is really gaining momentum there? Are we -- are we making too much about her, you know, sort of, you know, the momentum that we're seeing on the national side?
 
RUSHING: Well, Trump is locked firmly into first place like, that's unlocked, that's been unlocked for months. But DeSantis and Nikki Haley are definitely battling it out for number two. I mean, the CNN debate the other day, you saw those who just like trading barbs at each other nonstop throughout the entire debate. I mean, you didn't hear much policy talk because they're too busy trying to, you know, destroy the other one's character and calling -- battling over who was the biggest liar. And so, the rise is real.
 
I mean, like well, you see DeSantis react that way toward her, you see Trump work and more attacks against Nikki Haley to stump speeches, like the rise is real. Like -- but I don't see her overtaking Trump at the finish. But a strong second place finish could propel her.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, it could mean the end for DeSantis. The Democratic caucuses, I mean, they're basically just admin, but I'm wondering what the mood there is because obviously a national polls, Biden struggling, broadly speaking, polls suggest even, you know, Democrats, there isn't much enthusiasm there. And that seems to be reflected in Iowa where we've seen some of the, you know, relatively low numbers of ballots that have been requested. What are you hearing?
 
RUSHING: Yes. I mean, well -- I mean, obviously we won't found out the Iowa results until Super Tuesday, but it's just not a lot of buzz around it, you know, because it's -- these caucus -- Monday's caucus with Iowa Democrats is pretty much just going to be like, what a traditional caucus is, which is a party organizing meeting. So like it doesn't have the same buzz to it. I mean, there's just like all the attention has been on the Republicans rightfully so because they've been here traversing the state and, you know, pleading their cases and, you know, they're still number one or they're still -- we're still first in the nation for the GOP. But yes, you just don't hear much about the Democrats, honestly, in the caucus process now.
 <br>[05:10:11]
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Well, it'll be certainly fascinating to watch on Monday. Certainly hoping that it's safe for all the people there who are going out to vote and, you know, also for yourself, all the reporters out there covering it. Really appreciate having you on, Ty Rushing. Thank you so much for speaking with us.
 
RUSHING: It's been a pleasure. Thank you.
 
BRUNHUBER: More than 100 million people, nearly a third of the U.S .are under winter weather alerts advisories and life threatening blizzard conditions this weekend. The National Weather Service's warning that the extreme wind chills could cause frostbite on exposed skin in as little as 10 minutes. So, let's find out what's in store for the weekend from CNN Meteorologist Chad Myers.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Still snowing across the northern plains and parts of the Great Lakes, rain across parts of the Northeast but that will change over and move away. The colder air, much, much colder air, dropping 20 to 30 degrees by the time Sunday rolls around turning that rain into snow, lake effect snow for sure over all the great lakes that aren't even frozen over yet. So significant snow coming in.
 
Certainly, big snow for the game possibly in Buffalo. We'll see how much snow and if they have to move that game. But the winds are going to be 30 to 50 miles per hour knocking down power lines with this very cold air.
 
Arctic air, look at the morning low temperature in Omaha for Sunday morning, 21 degrees below zero, and that's the air temperature. That's not the wind chill. That's what the thermometer is going to say. That's what your dog is going to feel. That's what you're going to feel in your car feels as well.
 
Even down to Oklahoma City by the end of the weekend, the morning low will be three. That's like take care of your water pipes type of weather there. Now we turn our attention to Iowa where at voting time the air temperature is going to be somewhere between minus five and minus 10. But the wind is also going to be blowing, the snow will still be drifting, and the wind chill factors will be between 20 and 40 degrees below zero for those people trying to get to the polls.
 
BRUNHUBER: United Airlines says it will ground its entire fleet of Boeing 737 Max 9 jets until at least January 16. It says the planes won't fly until they're approved and it's confident the planes are 100 percent safe. Now typically it has about 200 Max 9 flights daily. One hundred seventy-one of the planes are grounded in the U.S. as Alaska Airlines and United await updated guidance from federal authorities. United's announcement comes one week after a terrifying incident on an Alaska Airlines flight where a door sign section blew off the side of the plane in midflight.
 
Houthi targets in Yemen take more fire from U.S. forces in the region. We'll have the latest on new wave of strikes launched from this warship. Plus, Houthi leaders tried to capitalize on those U.S. strikes by bolstering political support at home.
 
Also ahead, Israel rejects accusations of committing genocide against Palestinians before the top U.N. court the second. And final day of arguments over Israel's military campaign in Gaza, that's coming up. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:17:02]
 
BRUNHUBER: Houthi targets in Yemen have taken another round of pounding from U.S. forces in the region. The destroyer USS Kearney hit a radar site with cruise missiles early Saturday, according to U.S. Central Command of the Iran T.V. station reported airstrikes in the capital, Sana'a. And that came on the heels of a much larger wave of strikes carried out by the U.S. and Britain the day before. Now this is the aftermath at one of nearly 30 sites hit in those attacks. Officials say they were in response to repeated Houthi attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea. These now vowed to retaliate against U.S. and British assets.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YAHYA SAREA, HOUTHI MILITARY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): The American and British enemies bear full responsibility for their criminal aggression against our Yemeni people. It will not go unpunished or unanswered. The Yemeni armed forces will not hesitate to target threatening sources and all hostile targets on land and sea in order to defend Yemen, its sovereignty and independence.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Nada Bashir is monitoring developments for us and joins us now from Beirut. So first, Nada, what's the latest on these new U.S. strikes and how the Houthis might respond?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, look, Kim as you heard that the rhetoric from the Houthis appears to be intensified. But it remains to be seen exactly to what extent they are now able to retaliate. We've seen more than two dozen attacks along the Red Sea by the Houthis since late November. And of course on Tuesday, we did see 21 missiles and drones fired by the Houthis from Yemen being shot down according to U.S. military officials. The expressed intention of the U.S. and U.K. led strikes that we saw overnight Thursday into Friday was to diminish and downgrade the Houthis ability to carry out further attacks along the Red Sea. The Houthis, on their part, have vowed to continue retaliating, to continue targeting missiles along the Red Sea so long as Israel's attacks on Gaza continue. But of course, the target for the U.S. and the United Kingdom has been attempting to diminish that possibility. Now, of course, we have seen a further attack following that random strikes by the U.S., the United Kingdom, one anti-ship ballistic missile targeting a vessel in the Red Sea. Their hits, according to U.S. military officials, they believe, according to officials in the U.S., that their strikes overnight Thursday into Friday mean that the Houthis haven't been able to retaliate at the same intensity level that we have seen in the past. But of course, it remains to be seen exactly how successful these strikes have been in diminishing that threat.
 
We of course did see the U.S. carrying out further strikes overnight. These are unilateral strikes by the U.S., again, with the support of international allies but not carrying it out alongside the United Kingdom crucially. Mounting concern of course around the potential for this to escalate tensions around the region, the Houthis have vowed to continue retaliating. We've heard vocal condemnation from authorities in Iran, of course, backing Houthi rebels. And as we've seen in the past, the Houthis have been able to launch attacks against the likes of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
 <br>[05:20:07]
 
There was suddenly concern around the broadening or potentially broadening of this conflict, particularly as we continue to see tensions in the region mounting of what we've heard from officials in the internationally recognized government in Yemen. They have condemned Houthis attacks. They don't want to see a war break out. They don't want to be dragged into yet another round of confrontation. Of course, as we do begin to see that rhetoric intensifying, there will be capital eyes on the situation on the ground in Yemen, and to what extent Houthis will be able to regroup and launch further attacks.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Nada, I want to turn now to how this is playing out here in the U.S. Was President Biden now calling the Houthis a terrorist organization?
 
Sorry, Nada. Could you -- could you hear the question? I'm just asking about how this is playing out in the U.S. with -- we heard President Biden calling the Houthis a terrorist organization.
 
I think we're having problems reaching Nada. So we'll have to leave it there. Nada Bashir in Beirut, thank you.
 
I want to bring in now Hakim Almasmari. He's the former editor in chief of Yemen Post newspaper. And Hakim has also played leading roles in brokering the political mediations in Yemen. Thank you so much for joining us here.
 
So, as we've said, there have been fresh strikes on the capital. You're there. Tell us what you've been seeing on the ground. HAKIM ALMASMARI, FMR. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, YEMEN POST: Yesterday there were a lot, in specific, 73 attacks on Houthi targets in (inaudible) were attacks on four different locations, all of them military locations are targeting military targets. There are casualties. All the type of casualties were military casualties, not civilian. But the Houthis have vowed to retaliate these attacks. And for that, 100s of 1000s protested yesterday in the capital Sana'a, demanding the Houthi controlled government to -- can -- to retaliate at the U.S. British attacks and as to attack U.S. warships, military bases in the region and vessels.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, let me ask you about those protests. We're just seeing the pictures of that right now. So many people, you know, 100s of 1000s people out there. Who exactly were taking to the streets? Who are they? Are they Houthi supporters?
 
Are they the average Yemenis? I mean, who's behind the protests? Who organized them? Tell us more about it.
 
ALMASMARI: It's not a secret that these protests are led by the Houthi controlled government. But because it's linked to the Palestinian cause and Yemenis are very supportive to the Palestinian cause, and because the Houthis are supporting Hamas and the Palestinian cause, it was very easy to gather 100s of 1000s in a one day notice. So these protesters are not all Houthis. There were -- most of them are generally Yemenis who have sympathy towards the Palestinian cause. And because the Houthis are supporting this Palestinian cause, they are in support of the Houthi as well.
 
BRUNHUBER: And what generally was their message here?
 
ALMASMARI: Their message was retaliation against the attacks that took place in Yemen over the last 48 hours, and the Houthis have vowed to retaliate. And I do expect there will be retaliation on U.S. targets, it could be in the next 48 hours or so. But it does not seem that the Houthis will back down and they are at risk (ph) to target U.S. positions in the Middle East.
 
BRUNHUBER: Do you get a sense that by taking on the U.S. and the West more openly like this, that the Houthis are getting more support both within the country and within the region?
 
ALMASMARI: It was basically a gift to them. Over the last 20 years the slogan has been death to America and death to Israel. So, the U.S. attacks on Yemen was basically a gift to the Houthis that finally made their call for their slogan right that the U.S. is behind the war on Yemen and has been behind the war in Yemen for the last nine years. So, the latest attacks played completely in Houthis benefits. And they're using that to market themselves as to gain more fighters and support in Yemen, and especially in the region for their causes.
 
BRUNHUBER: What do you think the knock-on effects of this might be? Is there a danger that this could, you know, derail ongoing peace talks or worse lead to greater escalation of conflict within Yemen itself?
 
ALMASMARI: I don't expect them -- the peace talks to halter in any way because Saudi Arabia is basically sidelined in this war. They do not want to be involved in anything that deals with attacking the Houthis because they're worried about their own interests in the region. So it will not hold up stocks, but this war will not benefit the U.S. It will benefit the Houthis more, because the Houthis have nothing to lose in this war.
 <br>[05:25:22]
 
Yemen has little to no infrastructure. That's what fighting for. So, they have nothing to lose. They have the military power, they have the missile power, and they will continue to attack vessels or Israeli vessels until the Gaza war is over, and they have nothing to lose. So I do believe that they have more to gain than to lose in the U.S. attacks.
 
BRUNHUBER: Finally, we heard President Biden calling the Houthis a terrorist organization looking to perhaps, you know, re designate them formally as a terrorist organization. What effect would that have? How would that change dynamics do you think?
 
ALMASMARI: Yes, that would not affect at all. Houthis do not have a national bank accounts anywhere. They don't have any fighters abroad. All their fighters are in the country, their bank accounts are in the country. So, branding them as terrorist organization will have little to no effect on them whatsoever.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, we'll leave it there. Really great to have you on Hakim Almasmari. Thank you so much for being here with us.
 
On Friday, Israel rejected accusations of committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza at the top U.N. court. The Israeli government calls the allegations quote, "Grossly distorted and an attempt to pervert the meaning of the term." Israel rejecting the petition filed by South Africa to stop the war on Gaza. Israel presented its defense to the International Court of Justice.
 
In the second and final day of the hearings, it says if there were any acts of genocide, they were committed against Israel by Hamas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAL BECKER, LAWYER REPRESENTING ISRAEL: The Genocide Convention was a solemn promise made to the Jewish people and to all peoples of never again. The applicant, in effect, invites the court to betray that promise. If the term genocide can be so diminished in the way that it advocates, if provisional measures can be triggered in the way that it suggests, the convention becomes an aggressor's charter.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: The lawyer for Israel went on to argue that a court ordered to stop its military campaign in Gaza would reward and, quote, "encourage terrorists to hide behind civilians." South Africa's legal team tried to head off the self-defense argument during its arguments on Thursday. It condemned the brutal attack by Hamas, which said no atrocity justifies genocide. In response, South Africa accuses Israel of deliberately trying to destroy the people of Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADILA HASSIM, LAWYER REPRESENTING SOUTH AFRICA: Every day, there is mounting irreparable loss of life, property, dignity, and humanity for the Palestinian people. Our news feeds show graphic images of suffering that has become unbearable to watch. Nothing will stop the suffering except an order from this court without an indication of provisional measures. The atrocities will continue with the Israeli Defense Force indicating that it intends pursuing this course of action for at least a year.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, much more to come here on CNN including a look at Monday's Iowa Republican caucuses. Candidates are making their final pitches amid fears of winter weather could suppress turnout. Plus, we'll soon know who will be the next president of Taiwan. One live report ahead on the islands crucial election as vote counting is underway as we speak. Stay with us
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:30:15]
 
BRUNHUBER: Welcome back to all you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom.
 
Extreme winter weather is having an impact on the crucial final weekend of campaigning ahead of Monday's Iowa Republican caucuses. Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis are battling to present themselves as alternatives to former President Donald Trump who continues to dominate the GOP primary. But they've all had to cancel or modify campaign events this weekend as a powerful winter storm brings blizzard conditions across the state. Temperatures will fall below zero today and remain there throughout Monday. Now it's never been this cold during a caucus in Iowa and Republicans are growing increasingly concerned the weather will negatively impact turnout.
 
All right, we turn now to Taiwan's crucial election. Polls closed a short time ago and vote counting is now underway. The results will determine who will be the self-governing Taiwan's next leader. CNN's Kristie Lu Stout joins us now from Hong Kong with the latest.
 
So, Kristie, voting's over, counting results when we might we expect to see them?
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In just a few hours from now, Kim. Voting is indeed over, the tally is underway after millions of people across Taiwan went to the polls in these critical presidential and parliamentary elections. Now, the ballots, as you see on your screen are being counted in this famously efficient and transparent way. Those yellow ballots represent votes for parliament, pink for president. And they are, as you can see, counted by hand and each vote later on, they're held up and they're put on public display before being tallied.
 
And the result is due out later this evening, again, in just a few hours from now. And the entire world is watching especially China.
 
I want to show you who is vying to succeed President Tsai Ing-wen. There were three individuals. First up you have Lai Ching-te of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party or DPP. Also Hou Yu-ih of the opposition Kuomintang or KMT. And the third candidate Ko Wen-je of the Taiwan People's Party or TPP.
 
Now to talk about the candidates one by one, first up the DPP is latching. He is the vice president of Taiwan. He says that he would maintain the status quo, and like Tsai Ing-wen, would pursue peace through strength. And his views have been denounced by China as separatist.
 
Now his rival is Hou Yu-ih of the rival Kuomintang party, he is the mayor of New Taipei City. He's a longtime police officer, and he says he will restart talks with Beijing if he's elected. Now, the KMT, this is a party that traditional -- traditionally favors closer links with China.
 
And the third candidate is Ko Wen-je of the TPP. This is interesting. This is a party that he founded just five years ago and cause the former mayor of Taipei before politics he was a surgeon and his focus on livelihood issues, on bread and butter issues like the high cost of living has really struck a chord with the youth vote.
 <br>[05:35:06]
 
We are of course also keeping an eye on Taiwan's parliamentary elections. Remember those yellow ballots being counted. And the parties have stressed the need to win a majority so that the president has a clear mandate, but that could be out of reach. Now China, of course, is watching proceedings very closely. It has called this election a choice between peace and war.
 
China claims Taiwan as its own territory, despite the fact it has never controlled it. Back to you, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. So, China, obviously watching this very closely. Here in the U.S. as well, the stakes are very high as well.
 
STOUT: Yes, stakes very high in the United States, also in China. And it's China's reaction that is going to be critical here. Because if there is victory for the DPP, this is a party that China has openly disparaged. How would China react? It is expected that China would react not very pleased about that at all.
 
As for the KMT, this is a party that China has traditionally favored. That being said, both of these parties are parties that have focused and stressed the sovereignty of Taiwan, saying the fate and future of Taiwan is determined by the people of Taiwan. So a number of analysts, even officials inside Taiwan say, no matter who wins this election, it is expected that China will continue to make investments, including military investments to put the pressure on Taiwan, which of course would have a destabilizing effect on Taiwan, on the Taiwan Strait on the region. It would affect the global economy as it would affect trade, would affect shipping the global supply chain. You know, don't forget that the world's biggest contract chip maker is based in Taiwan.
 
I'm talking about TSMC. Back to you, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. We'll find out in a couple of hours. Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong, thanks so much.
 
U.S. launches a new wave of strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen. But as Western missiles are aimed down, Houthi leaders try to win political points at home. We'll explain that coming up. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:40:19]
 
BRUNHUBER: Now latest on the U.S. strikes in Yemen. The destroyer USS Kearney hit a Houthi radar site with cruise missiles early Saturday, according to U.S. Central Command. Houthi Iran T.V. station reported airstrikes in the capital Sana'a. It's the second strike on Houthi targets in as many days. Now these before and after images show the damage at one of the nearly 30 sites that were hit by the U.S. and Britain on Friday.
 
They say the strikes are a response to Houthi attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea. As Nic Robertson reports, the Houthis are trying to use the situation to rally political support.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLAMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Iran backed Houthi is whipping up anti American and anti-Israeli anger, chanting Death to America, Death to Israel, curse the Jews.
 
We condemn the criminal terrorist strikes on the Yemeni people by Israel, America and Britain, he says. We have been at war for eight years. The strikes don't frighten us.
 
Familiar with war, because a decade ago the Houthis, a minority religious sect, in this the poorest country in the Arab world overthrew the internationally recognized government seizing army weapons stockpiles, triggering a festering civil war and famine, drawing in Saudi and the UAE, backing the real government hitching Houthis with airstrikes. I've been witness to some of it.
 
ROBERTSON: The positioning of these valves on the side of the missile that convinced the Saudis, this is Iranian manufactured.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): The Houthis backed by Iran, targeted Saudi with Iranian made cruise missiles and hit the UAE with drones. Inside Yemen, ragtag Saudi backed government troops failed to oust the Houthis from the capital.
 
ROBERTSON: We're keeping low here because we've been told the Houthis might be able to see us.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Government lines often undermanned fighters hired from local tribes. Without money, few fought. April 2022, a fragile truce agreed. Backed by Iran, the Houthis could afford more fighters, had ready supplies of sophisticated drones, cruise missiles and more as recently as last year, putting 1000s of uniformed troops and weapons on parade. Their troops and paws in regional aggression ending 12 days after Hamas's brutal October 7 attack launching missiles at Israel. Weeks later, escalating attacks on international shipping in the Red Sea that they falsely claim is connected to Israel and now threatening more in support of Gazans.
 
JOHN KIRBY, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: This has nothing to do with the war on Gaza. This has to do with them using Iranian supplied munitions, Iranian supplied weapons to go after international shipping in the Red Sea.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Iran and its regional proxies including Hamas and Hezbollah, accusing the U.S. and the U.K. of escalating regional tensions to help Israel, while America's regional partners Saudi and the UAE worry about escalation or potential return to Houthi attacks on them.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): And after the second night of strikes, an already tense region is going to feel even more fragile. The question now, not if the Houthis respond, but when? Nic Robertson, CNN, Tel Aviv, Israel.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. So we have the Buffalo Bills are looking for some help ahead of Sunday's playoff game in New York. CNN Sports Carolyn Manno joins me to explain why they'll need to bring a shovel. It's coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:48:04]
 
BRUNHUBER: The Alabama Crimson Tide moves quickly to replace legendary Head Coach Nick Saban. I want to bring in CNN Sports correspondent Carolyn Manno now live from New York.
 
So, Carolyn, he's going to have some big shoes to fill.
 
Carolyn, are you there?
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Well, taking over for a man who led Alabama to nine conference titles and six national championships, the pressure is certainly there. We'll find out soon enough if Washington Coach Kalen DeBoer is the right man for the job. He led the Huskies to a PAC 12 championship and a birth in the college football playoff national championship last Monday. The 49-year-old was named the AP coach of the year after posting a 14-1 record in 2023 with the only loss coming to Michigan in the national title game. In a statement DeBoer said, quote, "Following Coach Saban is an honor. He has been the standard for college football, and his success is unprecedented. I would not have left Washington for just any school. The chance to lead the football program at the University of Alabama is the opportunity of a lifetime."
 
Elsewhere, the NFL playoffs will kick off on Saturday with two games on the schedule weather will be a factor for the Chiefs dolphins game in Kansas City. The temperature a kickoff is expected to be around zero degrees with a wind chill of minus 10 to minus 15 degrees. Believe it or not, the players are actually looking forward to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PATRICK MAHOMES, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS QUARTERBACK: What could be better, man, playing playoff football in January at Arrowhead Stadium, it's going to be cold kind of is what it is. I'd rather be playing a football game than chasing my kids around the backyard. So, I'll have a little bit of the adrenaline rush and I'm excited for it.
 
TUA TAGOVAILOA, MIAMI DOLPHINS QUARTERBACK: Can't prepare for a game like that with that kind of weather. So it'd be new (ph). I just -- to see what it feels like without gloves. But yes, I just think the whole thing -- whole thing is a mindset.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: Kickoff for the Dolphin Shift game is at 8:10 Eastern. That follows the Houston Texans hosting the Cleveland Browns at 4:30.
 <br>[05:50:02]
 
Meantime, the forecast calling for snow in Buffalo being measured in feet ahead of Sunday's home game against the Steelers. This is so bad that the Bills are asking fans to help clear the field before kickoff. The fans of freelance shovelers are going to be paid $20 an hour with complimentary food and breaks provided out of the cold. You don't even need to own a shovel, the team says they'll provide one for you. That is how much snow they're expected to get.
 
And lastly for you this morning, Kim, the Chicago Bulls celebrated their first ever Ring of Honor class at halftime of Friday night's game against the Golden State Warriors. But the festivities did not come without controversy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He was a six time NBA champion, two time NBA Executive of the Year, represented by his wife Thelma, Basketball Hall of Famer and former Bull's general manager, Jerry Krause.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: Jerry Krause, who is credited with building the 90s dynasty, with Michael Jordan passed away in 2017. And the crowd booing brought his widow to tears who was in attendance after the game. Warrior's head coach and former Chicago Bulls player Steve Kerr, who won three titles with the team spoke out against that kind of behavior.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEVE KERR, GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS HEAD COACH: It's shameful, it's absolutely shameful. I cannot believe. I'm devastated for Thelma and for the Krause's family. What can we possibly be thinking? I cannot believe that the fans -- and you have to understand, when you hear boos, it's not all right.
 
So the fans who booed they know who they are. And that's to me is absolutely shameful. And I'm devastated by that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Carolyn Manno -- 
 
MANNO: And Kim, you know -- 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, go ahead.
 
MANNO: I was just going to say, Krause is, you know, he was the architect of that '90s dynasty, but also in many people's point of view responsible for its undoing. And I think that the documentary that came out, "The Last Dance," all of that stuff sort of factoring into fans, sort of gut visceral reaction but taboo, taboo with his family and attendance, certainly classless.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes. Yes, hard to understand. All right. Carolyn Manno in New York, thank you so much.
 
I want to maybe a shortage of seats on the Elvis Express but there are plenty of sequined jumpsuits and wigs as 1000s of fans made their way from Sydney to the Australian outback. One of the world's largest tributes to the "King." CNN's Lynda Kinkade has that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you for attending central station for the special service. We can give (inaudible).
 
(SINGING)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): On the way to a celebration Fitbit a king or many kings, Elvis fans and impersonators leg quived (ph) and hips shook their way through Sydney's Central Station Thursday, wearing fake sideburns and glittering jackets. The crew heads to Parks Australia, a small farming town in New South Wales that has hosted its annual Elvis Festival since 1993.
 
TAZ "FUNKY ELVIS" DIMTSIS, ELVIS PRESLEY IMPERSONATOR: So he's been gone for what, 46 and a half years, and look at that, you know, he thought he'd be forgotten. That's the thing a little bit of it's bigger than ever. It's fantastic.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right. He's back in the building.
 
DIMTSIS: He's back in the -- he's back in the building.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): The Elvis Festival was born from a pair of restaurant owners, a local newspaper editor, and they burning love for the king of rock and roll. And now in a town of about 10,000 people, it's a little less conversation and a lot more celebration. With organizers estimating the five day event will draw a turnout, which is over double Parks's population. Many participants looking to fulfill their own dreams of a better land.
 
JENNY DOLLIN, ELVIS FAN: Everyone's got so serious. Well, everyone's painting their house grave, the world's gone right. We need to be the color and a bit of fun and just, you know, get out there and have a laugh I say.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): In tune with this year's festival theme, Jailhouse Rock, jailbird Elvis impersonators at the Central Station Platform dancing to the Jailhouse Rock. Have the finest this six hour pilgrimage from Sydney to Parks, a train ride packed carta car with people dancing, singing and paying tribute to Mr. Presley.
 
STEVE FLETCHER AKA "KINGSLEY ROCK", TRIBUTE ARTIST: It's really just a lot of fun. We go from carriage to carriage entertaining the people. They dress up the carriages, they all lead to have a good time. And I guess that what makes it special.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): The 2024 Elvis Festival will rattle and roll for Sunday, featuring competitions, workshops and live performances. The perfect place to break in, your blue suede shoes.
 
Lynda Kinkade, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Music legend Elton John is known for his bold fashion choices, which complement his theatrical stage presence. Well, now, some of his costumes could be yours.
 
(SINGING)
 <br>[05:55:16]
 
BRUNHUBER: The Rocket Man's unique wardrobe is large in part due to the Italian fashion has Versace in design many of his more flamboyant looks. So, next month, John's vintage Versace will be up for auction along with other one of a kind pieces from his home here in Atlanta as part of the collection of Sir Elton John Goodbye Peachtree road at Christie's Auction House.
 
And another auction fans went crazy for two scripts from the T.V. series "Friends."
 
(SINGING)
 
BRUNHUBER: Scripts for the episodes, the one with Ross's wedding, part one and part two. They were filmed in England and the scripts were supposed to have been destroyed but they were found in a garbage bin more than 25 years ago and kept a bedside table and estimated value of up to $1,000 with the auctioneer said bidders worldwide jacked up the price sold for $28,000.
 
All right, leave it to Louis Vuitton to reimagine lunch with their sandwich bag purse, a steal at just $3,100. It was designed by record producer Pharrell Williams, who is now men's Creative Director at the French Luxury Fashion House. It's apparently inspired by the classic brown paper sandwich bag with cowhide leather and a blue fastener that sure to keep your sandwiches secure. Luis Vuitton has been inspired by everyday objects before, of course, including its trash bag purses.
 
All right, that wraps this hour of CNN Newsroom. I'm Kim Brunhuber. For viewers in North America, "CNN This Morning" is next for the rest of the world, it's "African Voices Playmakers."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)