Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Palestinians Face Food Shortages in Gaza during Ramadan; House Vote on Bill that could Ban TikTok in U.S.; Haitian Activist & Musician Wyclef Jean Speaks to CNN about Haiti Violence; Report Warns of Risks AI Poses to Humans; Al-Hilal Break World Record with 28th Successive Win. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired March 13, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well vote just hours away on Capitol Hill could have a major impact on TikTok while lawmakers are likely 
 
 to ban the Chinese made app and what young voters have to say about that. It's 9 am there in Washington, its 5 pm here in Abu Dhabi.
 
Hello, I'm Becky Anderson. This is "Connect the World" here on CNN. Also happening this hour, violence flares in Jerusalem where an Israeli soldier 
 
 shot and killed a 12 year old Palestinian boy was holding a firework. And I'll speak to Haitian rapper, philanthropist and activist Wyclef Jean about 
 
 the political chaos and violent reality in his home country.
 
And the stock markets in New York will open about 30 minutes from now. Futures so all but flat today the rally has been paused for the time being 
 
 as he hopes fade of an immediate lowering of interest rates. More on that bottom of the hour few when those markets open. Well, we start with renewed 
 
 violence on the third night of Ramadan.
 
Israeli police say a 12 year old was shot and killed by a border officer in a refugee camp in East Jerusalem. Now in this video obtained by CNN, the 
 
 young Palestinian boy can be seen holding a lit firework before a gunshot is heard. In his second video, he is seen lying on the ground as people 
 
 gather around him.
 
And Israeli police spokesperson says forces responded to a quote violent disturbance at the camp and that an officer fired towards a suspect to 
 
 quote endangered forces. CNN has asked police for further evidence of the alleged disturbances they say took place. Well CNN's Paula Hancocks joins 
 
 me here. What do we know at this point?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, when we look at this video that we managed to obtain, it does appear as though the boy is near the 
 
 security fence. So the West Bank wall that Israel has built around the West Bank, it happens in a Shuafat refugee camp just near occupied East 
 
 Jerusalem.
 
But what we don't see in the video is any border security officials. We don't see anything beyond this one boy, the 12 year old boy holding this 
 
 lit firework above his head at the exact time. Now we have heard from border patrol officers that they had a number of individuals who were 
 
 firing fireworks towards them and they said that there was a violent disturbance.
 
Now judging from the videos that we've watched, and judging from what we've heard from the border police, we have asked for more clarification as to 
 
 exactly what did happen. We've had quite a surprising response from Itamar Ben-Gvir this is the right wing Minister of National Security who issued a 
 
 statement calling the 12 year old a terrorist saying, quote, I salute the soldier who killed the terrorist who tried to shoot fireworks at him and 
 
 the troops.
 
This is exactly how you should act against terrorists with determination and precision. Now, when the 12 year old was shot, he was taken to the 
 
 trauma unit in a nearby hospital and later pronounced dead. But the fact that this statement came really shows the right wing nature of the cabinet 
 
 that you have with the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at this point.
 
And also shows that the heightened tension that we are seeing in the region, in that neighborhood, all stemming, really from what's happening in 
 
 Gaza.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah. It is the third day of Ramadan and real concerns about the possibility of an uptick in violence outside of Gaza itself. During this 
 
 period, of course, inside Gaza, hundreds of thousands hungry on the verge of starvation, concern still from agencies day after day after day warning 
 
 of famine in Gaza, particularly in the north.
 
Israel conceding to at least in principle, opening a new aid route for some of what is needed, particularly in the north. What do we know at this 
 
 point?
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
HANCOCKS: So this is something that many countries have been asking for. The U.S. President Joe Biden has been pushing Israel to open up more 
 
 checkpoints, because you just had the two in the southern part of the Gaza Strip. And they were heavily restricted, sometimes blocked by Israeli 
 
 protesters.
 
So what we know overnight is the Israeli military said that they did manage to open up another route along the security fence. Now they say it was a 
 
 pilot program. So they've tried it to see if it's possible, they managed to get World Food Programme through with some 25,000 meals, 6 aid trucks when 
 
 we're able to get specifically to Northern Gaza.
 
And that's the key that when they open up these new routes, they can get to where this aid is desperately needed. So it's something that has been 
 
 called for some time and something now the Israeli military shows that they are able to do.
 
ANDERSON: Paula Hancocks with me here in Abu Dhabi on this story, thank you very much indeed. Well, teenagers don't often pay close attention to U.S. 
 
 congressional votes, but they may be doing that today, because what's about to happen in Washington is hugely important to that younger demographic.
 
Next hour, the House of Representatives is set to vote on a bill that would force TikTok to divest itself of its Chinese ownership or be banned in the 
 
 United States. Now the legislation comes amid deep concerns about China's ability to access TikTok user's personal data and possibly use that to 
 
 influence for example, the November elections.
 
Will TikTok pushing back with a message encouraging you users to contact their representatives and urge them to oppose this bill. Well, we are 
 
 covering every angle of this story with Lauren Fox, who is on Capitol Hill, Marc Stewart is in Beijing and Clare Duffy is in New York for us. Lauren 
 
 let's start with you. Why are so many lawmakers so exercise about this so worried about TikTok?
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, this has been building for a long time on the hill. And their key concern is the national security 
 
 implications of teenagers and Americans at large using this app. Many lawmakers don't use it themselves because of concerns about their data 
 
 being shared with the Chinese government.
 
The other concern that exists here is one of which some members who are voting against this bill say that they do not want to take away the freedom 
 
 of users to operate this app. Now, I think that those two things exist in some ways, not in a vacuum, but lawmakers are going to be having this vote 
 
 today on the House floor, it's going to require a two thirds majority.
 
They're bringing it under a suspension of the rules, which means it would have to get a huge number of bipartisan members, Republicans and Democrats 
 
 to back it. And leaders are very confident that they are going to be able to get there, despite the fact that there are some Democrats who are 
 
 warning that this could have political implications for President Joe Biden, when he tries to rally the youth vote to the polls. Here's what they 
 
 said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MAX FROST (D-FL): I don't think it'll be helpful with young voters. But you know my argument here. Yes, it has to do with young people, but 
 
 taking a step back. I just think its bad policy.
 
SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): Successful politics is additional modifications in cutting out a large group of young voters is not the best known strategy 
 
 for reelection.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOX: Now, President Joe Biden has said that he plans to sign this bill if it gets to his desk, but if the House can get it out of their chamber 
 
 today, it then goes to the United States Senate and the future is little less certain over there. 
 
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said yesterday at a press conference, he was still looking at the bills still thinking about the path forward. So a lot 
 
 of questions on whether or not this is going to have a chance on the floor in the United States Senate, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Let me get to you there, Marc. Lauren, thank you. Let's get to Beijing Marc, what are Chinese officials saying about this?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know it's interesting. We've heard a lot of talk between the United States and China lately about trying to 
 
 create a competitive business relationship between the two nations. But then we have this lingering wound being TikTok in fact, Becky was almost a 
 
 year ago to the day that we are talking about a hearing involving TikTok.
 
But the feeling from Beijing is really portraying the United States almost as a weak competitor in the global arena. Just a few hours ago here in 
 
 Beijing, I talked to a spokesperson from China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I asked him regardless of what happens with United States 
 
 lawmakers.
 
There is this feeling of distrust toward Chinese companies from American lawmakers but also American citizens. Let's take a listen as to what he had 
 
 to say.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WANG WENBIN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: Even though the U.S. has not found evidence on how TikTok in dangerous it's not national 
 
 security. It has never stopped going after TikTok. Such practice of resorting to acts of bullying. When one could not succeed in fair disrupts 
 
 the normal operation of the market.
 
It undermines the confidence of international investors and sabotages the global economic and trade order. This will eventually backfire in the U.S. 
 
 itself.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: I also asked the spokesperson, are you being the Chinese government? Are you advising TikTok on how to conduct itself how to handle 
 
 these hearings? But the response I got was pretty much the same response, as you just heard very much scripted. Becky, this is a story that's getting 
 
 a lot of headlines in the United States, but not so much here in Beijing. It's not a big headline in the daily news cycle.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, that's fascinating. Let me bring in Clare, because I think our viewers will be interested to understand a little bit more about how 
 
 this would work. I mean, clearly, at this point, the effort is to try and get ByteDance who is the Chinese tech giant that owns TikTok to divest of 
 
 its interest in what is this popular video app.
 
All faiths are banned in the United States. Jake Sullivan explaining this is about basically, you know, the U.S. wanting American companies to own 
 
 the data of American uses, not the Chinese. How would a ban work, Clare?
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: Yeah, Becky, it's a good question, because I mean, I think you have ByteDance and TikTok signaling here that 
 
 they are going to push back fiercely against this bill, if it gets passed, signaling that they'll likely make a legal challenge to this bill.
 
And so I think you're getting indications from that side that they're not necessarily interested in spinning off TikTok to a U.S. owner. I think 
 
 there are also questions about whether you would have a willing U.S. buyer for TikTok; you have a lot of the major social media companies in the U.S. 
 
 that are already facing regulatory pressure as potential monopolies.
 
And so they're sort of limited and the acquisitions that they can make at this point, I think U.S. regulators would also push back on the idea of a 
 
 Meta or a Google buying another major social media platform. And so I think there is challenges there in terms of what the spin-off would look like.
 
And then we're looking at a ban. And this is a really politically fraught issue. You have TikTok users who are pushing back fiercely against the idea 
 
 of a ban. I've watched a number of TikTok videos in the last few weeks or the last week, I should say, of users filming themselves calling their 
 
 representatives saying we're not going to vote for you in the next election if you vote to pass this bill.
 
And so I think users are indeed really worried about the potential of a ban here. It's not necessarily all that easy to move your big following on one 
 
 platform to another platform. And users are saying particularly for users that are running small businesses that are making a livelihood on TikTok.
 
TikTok says there are 5 million small businesses on its platform in the U.S. They're really worried about what this could mean for their 
 
 livelihoods if the app is banned, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Can bring Marc, back in at this point, because I think it's important that we look at what some certainly many according China's double 
 
 standard here, major U.S. social media apps are banned in China, and there is a version of TikTok in China that looks very different. We've got an 
 
 example of that. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SELINA WANG, FORMER CNN REPORTER: And Douyin users under 14 can only use the app for 40 minutes a day and see kid's safe content. Plus Douyin 
 
 automatically puts on this heavy beauty filter when I open up this camera function.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Point being here from Selina Wang is reporting is that kids in China who use this app or an app very similar to this are protected from 
 
 the sort of awful content that so many in the States fear their children are exposed to on TikTok? Is there some hypocrisy in those bullying 
 
 comments coming from Beijing today?
 
STEWART: Well, you know, I think the thing, Becky, is that this Douyin version that Selina highlighted, but it is specifically made to a Chinese 
 
 audience. And I think the one point which should be taken into consideration, if you use this Chinese app of TikTok again made by 
 
 ByteDance, it is censored in the sense if I were to type in Tiananmen Square 1989 referring to the political violence there for many decades ago.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
I mean, a sore point in Chinese history that would not show up in the search engine but if I weren't on TikTok the United States version the 
 
 North American version there you know there is no there's no censorship as to as to what can be seen. So I mean, I think in ByteDance is might I mean 
 
 they have business strategy of making specific products for specific audiences. So, that's something that I guess needs to be reconciled.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, it's fascinating, isn't it? What an interesting story there says. It's good to have you all on there. Thank you very much indeed. Well 
 
 President Joe Biden and Donald Trump will face each other once again of course in the 2024 presidential election. Trump clinched the Republican 
 
 nomination following Tuesday's presidential primaries.
 
Biden also officially secured the Democratic nomination. The key states that one was Georgia, Mississippi and Washington are on the social media 
 
 platform X. Biden said the gaming the nomination signaled a time of choosing and a call to action. Trump also posted a video on X saying now we 
 
 have to go back to work because we have the worst President in the history of the country.
 
Well as violence and chaos spread across Haiti. The U.S. has deployed a marine unit to the troubled country to help restore order a closer look and 
 
 we will talk with a prominent Haitian activist, up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well Haiti is hoping to have a transitional council in place after the country's Prime Minister resigned following widespread gang 
 
 violence in the country. The council will be tasked with appointing an Interim Prime Minister and establishing a provisional electoral council to 
 
 facilitate elections.
 
Or meanwhile, a U.S. Marine anti-Terrorism unit has been deployed to the American Embassy in Port-au-Prince amid widening gang violence in the 
 
 capital. The U.N. has welcomed the new developments but says it is hard to predict if it'll help end the violence.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHANE DUJARRIC, U.N. SPOKESPERSON: What is clear is that a political solution cannot be imposed on the Haitian people from the outside. This is 
 
 a way forward.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Does the SG have any message to gangs and gang leaders in Haiti right now because they are threatening and bloodbath?
 
DUJARRIC: Silence the guns.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Haitian musician and activist Wyclef Jean reacted positively to Prime Minister Ariel Henry's resignation on Tuesday and a 
 
 message posted on X he wrote, in part God is great Dr. Ariel Henry has resigned and now I pray for the people of Haiti.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Let's show the world that we can take our destiny into our own hands. Well Wyclef Jean joins me now. What needs to happen, sir, to take destiny quote 
 
 into your own hands, the hands of the Haitian people, you know what needs to happen next?
 
WYCLEF JEAN, GRAMMY-AWARD WINNING HAITIAN MUSICIAN AND ACTIVIST: Well, first of all, thank you, Becky, you know, I wish I was here re mixing the 
 
 Shakira, Shakira for you going Becky or Becky, you know, but we are here in dire situations, I think what has to happen next, there are a few things.
 
One is that CARICOM you know, they had the meeting in Jamaica, and then that there was seven parties that were supposed to be taking I think they 
 
 have 48 hours now. I think 24 left to come up with a resolution. And this has been contested by a -- and more you just show saying that they don't 
 
 recognize this and of course, the men of arms.
 
So I think that a step moving forward. And again, it's just me looking at it from my lens. The departure of Ariel Henry happened through the men of 
 
 arms. So if any form of peace of the country moving forward is going to happen, I don't see how we can happen without sitting on the table with all 
 
 of the Haitian parties meaning like you cannot don't include them. We're talking about the U.S. is closely --
 
ANDERSON: -- that's going to be -- yeah. Yeah, Wyclef what you're talking about here is men of arms, who are increasingly we're talking about violent 
 
 gangs, aren't we? You heard the U.N. they're saying silence the gun --
 
JEAN: Again I'm not.
 
ANDERSON: But at this point, everybody has to be at the table?
 
JEAN: Well, again, I'm not legitimizing any form of gangs. Again, I'm speaking of there's two narratives here. One is how did the guys get to the 
 
 guns, right? So their version of the narrative from what I'm watching, and what's being said, is these guns were given to them to be used against 
 
 violence, against the actual communities.
 
So in the process of moving forward, what was the mission, right? So the mission was they wanted to get Ariel Henry out. So in the process of 
 
 getting him out, which they did get them out, again, I'm not legitimizing any form of violence. But what I'm saying is I don't see the country moving 
 
 forward without all of the Haitians.
 
It has to be a Haitian resolution. And if it's not a Haitian resolution, what's going to happen is the idea of us within the U.S., and we're going 
 
 to bring in the Kenyan force and in turn into a situation that will turn into a continuation of a bloodbath. So the Haitians have to sit down as the 
 
 Haitian people.
 
So for now, if -- is contesting this, they have that you cannot don't include people that were part of the ground right in the process that was 
 
 getting tear gas. There's still a narrative of not hearing, where is the narrative where everyone wanted area already leave. And then in the 
 
 process, he was tear gas in the community.
 
And in that process -- these guys to say that they're not going to let him come back in the country. So again, I think its multiple narratives. Again, 
 
 I'm not legitimizing violence in any way, I think, to get to a Haitian solution that Haitians have to come up with the solution as a whole.
 
ANDERSON: I mean, you just look at the images that are coming out of Haiti, you speak to people on the ground, and you'll be doing that yourself. I 
 
 know that you were born in a suburb of Port-au-Prince. And you were raised by relatives there. 
 
Your mom, your parents are now emigrated to the U.S. and you then went and followed them. What are you hearing about life there at present when you 
 
 know, how bad things become Wyclef?
 
JEAN: Whether people want to get back to normality, right? And what they want is the people on the ground that Haitian people right now are axing 
 
 for solution, they want to be included. The word is that Haitians want to take the destiny in their own hands, life on the ground. You know, I was 
 
 born in Haiti.
 
I didn't leave Haiti till I was about seven years old. And I come from extreme poverty and understanding that and what we're seeing today is 
 
 nothing that we have seen. But I want you to understand there are two sides to the country, right? There's the narrative of what we're seeing happening 
 
 now.
 
And of course, in the possibility of where we want to go in the future as being one of the leads of exports, which can happen with the natural 
 
 resources of this country. 
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
So in order to get to that, the problem that we are facing today as we speak right now, is that the solution for this to happen, the seven parties 
 
 that have to make this decision, the ground is contesting this at the moment. 
 
And I do again think that moving forward with the Haitian Solution again it's probably not the most popular thing that I'm going to say. But I have 
 
 to be honest because I'm the same person that said, if he doesn't leave February 7th, there's going to be enormous blood. I see bloodshed and I see 
 
 bloodshed. So and moving forward, I think if he's going to be Haitian Solution, I think that Haitians have to be on the table. 
 
ANDERSON: You've previously expressed interest in running for office in Haiti, would you try that again, at this point? 
 
JEAN: Well, I love my rock star life. When I ran, I felt like the absence of government, right? So I can be for my country, Haiti as I can be my own 
 
 Elon Musk, right? I can work with Elon, I can work with Jay-Z, and I can work. I'm more on the side of -- I'm as an entrepreneur, why can I invest 
 
 in all different ventures except in my country, right. 
 
So I would like to see the lowest change in my country, anti-corruption, give us a tax incentives, you know what I mean? I would like to see a duty 
 
 free zone. These are my interests in the country. So I'm searching for good governance and good government. As someone who lives in the diaspora, the 
 
 diaspora sends back home over like $4.5 billion. 
 
So can you imagine we're sending all that money and we don't have the same in vote? So moving forward, even feel like this part of the Haitian 
 
 constitution that has to be amended, you know, but I think that it starts now and in starting now, if the Haitians have to figure out solutions as 
 
 Haitians. 
 
ANDERSON: Wyclef it's very good to have you. Thank you very much indeed. There are so many leaving the country making their way through what are 
 
 dangerous routes trying to make their way out of the country into the United States, for example, because of what is going on, on the ground. 
 
And you are talking about a more positive Haiti going forward. And you've described how it is that you think that that could happen. Good to have 
 
 you, sir, always a pleasure, thank you. Well, still to come police are investigating the death of a former Boeing whistleblower. He'd raised 
 
 serious questions about the company's production standards, more on that after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Right, welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. Time here half past five in the afternoon time on the East Coast. If you're watching 
 
 in the United States, it's 9.30 in the morning, and that means the markets are open. And this is the story pretty flat, flat to lower, lower on the 
 
 NASDAQ. Investors really losing their excitement about a possible interest rate cut anytime soon. 
 
Well, police are investigating the death of a former Boeing whistleblower found dead at a Charleston South Carolina Hotel. Officials say John Barnett 
 
 died on Saturday from a self-inflicted gunshot. Now the 62-year-old former quality manager had raised serious concerns about Boeing's production 
 
 standards. His attorneys say quote, we didn't see any indication he will take his own life. No one can believe it.
 
Well, that comes after a midair drop occurred on a Boeing aircraft headed from Australia to New Zealand on Monday. Some of the passengers on that 
 
 LATAM Airlines Flight returned to Chile on Tuesday. CNN's Pete Muntean has more on what is the ever growing list of problems for Boeing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): New images show the aftermath of Monday's mysterious in flight jolt on a Chilean Boeing 787. 
 
 LATAM Airlines says a technical event caused a strong movement on board injuring 50 passengers who peppered the pilots with questions.
 
BRIAN JOKAT, LATAM FLIGHT 800 PASSENGER: I immediately engaged with them and said you know what was that? And he openly admitted, he said I lost 
 
 control of the plane, my gauges just kind of went blank on me. And that's when the plane just took a dive.
 
MUNTEAN (voice-over): Boeing says it is standing by to help investigate the incident. The latest involving a Boeing plane following the Alaska Airlines 
 
 door plug blowout in January, a wheel falls off a united flight last week and hydraulic fluid trailing from another united flight during takeoff from 
 
 Sydney this week. 
 
MARY SCHIAVO, FORMER U.S. TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR GENERAL: People are pretty wary of Boeing right now. And when anything happens on a 
 
 Boeing, people want to know.
 
MUNTEAN (voice-over): Though there is no clear link between each incident Boeing remains under the microscope of federal investigators. The Federal 
 
 Aviation Administration now says it has completed its review of the 737 production line with "The New York Times" reporting Boeing failed 33 of 89 
 
 quality control audits. 
 
MICHAEL WHITAKER, ADMINISTRATOR, U.S. FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION: It wasn't just paperwork issues, but sometimes its order that work is done. 
 
 Sometimes it's tool management. It's -- it sounds kind of pedestrian, but it's really important in a factory that you have a way of tracking your 
 
 tools effectively, so that you have the right tool. And you know you didn't leave it behind. 
 
MUNTEAN (voice-over): FAA scrutiny follows anger from the National Transportation Safety Board, which blasted Boeing on Capitol Hill last week 
 
 for failing to provide records that detailed the omission of key bolts from the Alaska Airlines plane. Boeing says those records do not exist. 
 
JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, U.S. NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD: We don't have the records. We don't have the names of the 25 people that is in 
 
 charge of doing that work in that facility. It's absurd that two months later, we don't have that. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MUNTEAN (on camera): The National Transportation Safety Board just announced a rare hearing on the Alaska Airlines door plug incident. That 
 
 means Boeing officials could be subpoenaed to testify publicly. Boeing has not indicated how it will respond, but it is answering to the findings from 
 
 the FAA's audit. A new Boeing memo underscores that workers must precisely follow every step when building airplanes. Pete Muntean CNN, Washington. 
 
ANDERSON: Well, a stark warning from the U.S. State Department report about potential threats from artificial intelligence. A new report warns of and I 
 
 quote here catastrophic national security risks and says in the worst case AI could pose an extinction level threat to humans. Well, the porch authors 
 
 also caution that time is running out for the U.S. government to avoid disaster. 
 
Well, I want to bring in CNN's Matt Egan. He joins us live from New York. I mean, this is pretty scary stuff if you just sort of read the headline of 
 
 the report. I mean, what are the issues that have the chance of harming humanity at this point according to the U.S. State Department? Explain to 
 
 our viewers some of these threats that this report suggests that we could be facing. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Yeah Becky, definitely scary stuff. This report laid out in painstaking detail what could go wrong. Two central dangers 
 
 were highlighted by researchers here. One is that AI could become weaponized. And the other concern is that AI could become so advanced that 
 
 we lose control of it. 
 
Now a key line in this report on the loss of control idea, they write quote, given the potential capabilities of such a system in the worst case, 
 
 such a loss of control could pose an extinction level threat to the human species. 
 
Now I know that may sound ridiculous and we don't want to be alarmist here. But those warnings we've heard them before, right, that we've heard similar 
 
 warnings from Elon Musk from Geoffrey Hinton, the Godfather of AI from CEOs and other leaders in technology. Now, the U.S. State Department they 
 
 confirmed to CNN that yes, they did pay for this report. 
 
But they said no, the report does not reflect the views of the U.S. government. But it does reflect the views of interviews that the 
 
 researchers did with hundreds of AI executives, with cybersecurity researchers, with WMD experts and U.S. national security officials. 
 
And to give you a little bit more of a taste of what's keeping them up at night, some of the examples of how they fear AI could backfire include AI 
 
 powered cyber-attacks on infrastructure with the power grid, a destabilizing disinformation campaigns, that really destabilize society and 
 
 also weaponized robotics. And Becky there's also this concern that eventually AI systems, they could just become so smart, so advanced that 
 
 they refuse to be turned off by the creators. 
 
ANDERSON: And so the safeguards are being recommended at this point. 
 
EGAN: While the researchers here; they say there is an urgent need for U.S. officials to move very quickly. And they do lay out some specific examples. 
 
 First, they're calling for an AI regulatory agency to be formed. They say that there needs to be emergency limits on computer power that would sort 
 
 of limit how fast these AI models can advance. They want export controls and they want to build an international consensus and eventually 
 
 international law here.
 
Now, I do think it's important that we stress that none of this is saying that AI itself is evil, right? I mean, these tools are incredibly powerful. 
 
 And I talked to one of the authors of this report. And he said yeah, look, this could be a game changer for medicine for science. Some economists even 
 
 think it could speed up the growth of the U.S. economy. 
 
But there are obviously dangers here. And there's some debate over how fast AI is going to evolve. So this is a tough situation for officials and 
 
 lawmakers because if they move too fast, they could end up stifling innovation. If they move too slow of course, they could let some of these 
 
 dangers really build up. 
 
And Becky we should also just note that just today, the officials in Europe, they are moving on the regulatory front. EU regulators, they did 
 
 finalize the sweeping new regulations that go a lot further, we should note. Then the U.S. has done that perhaps a report like this one will cause 
 
 lawmakers to think about what they need to do here. 
 
ANDERSON: That's fascinating. And we'll report more on what is going on in Europe as far as AI regulation is concerned here on CNN. I think well let's 
 
 be quite frank AI is already a game changer in so many of the sectors that you were just posited there. It's what happens next and how to throw some 
 
 guardrails around this which I think is gets the heart of what you've been reporting there. 
 
And it gets to the heart of most of the conversations most of us are having about what happens next particularly with what is known as AGI which is of 
 
 course the next generation of AI. Good to have you Matt, thank you. Saudi Arabia's most decorated football team breaks a big time record Al-Hilal on 
 
 the longest winning streak in history. We'll talk about why and what is next for this Saudi pro league team when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Saudi Arabian Football Club Al-Hilal have broken a world record. They have won their 28th straight match and booked their place in the Asian 
 
 Champions League semi-final in the process. Let's bring in Amanda Davies who joins me now in. This is impressive. Not least because this isn't a 
 
 team full of international football stars, there is one of course who isn't playing at present but this is really impressive stuff just explain. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yeah, they did it without Neymar who is of course out injured watching on. But they didn't need him the two nil 
 
 victory yesterday booking their place in the Champions League semi-final as you said. But more importantly setting this record, the world record for a 
 
 top flight Football Club their 28th straight win dating all the way back to September last year.
 
It sees them overtake the record that had been set by the new saints the Welsh Club in 2016 and 2017. They had broken Ajax's (ph) record that had 
 
 stood for 44 years. But this is the side leading the way in the Saudi pro league now in the semi-final of the Asian Champions League. Their coach 
 
 says it's not about records they want to make sure they get their hands on the trophies.
 
And there's a big title tilt going across the Champions League. We've got news on the Asian Champions League and more of course from the European 
 
 Champions League coming up in just a couple of minutes, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Terrific. And that is "World Sport" that is up after this short break. We are back top of the hour with "Connect the World" stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END