Headline: Erin Burnett Outfront
Sub-headline: CNN Republican National Convention; Source: Trump Expected At RNC Tonight. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired July 15, 2024 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[19:00:26]
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: The dramatic opening night of the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Party of Donald Trump is getting ready to put on its primetime show after their presidential nominee, pulled off a big surprise with the 11th hour reveal of his running mate, Senator JD Vance of Ohio. Vance making his debut as Trump's VP pick just a short time ago on the convention floor for his formal nomination. 
 
And welcome to all to this special edition of OUTFRONT. I'm Erin Burnett, along with Wolf Blitzer and his post over overlooking the convention floor.
 
And, Wolf, it's been only two days since President Trump's survived that terrifying assassination attempt. And but he did not go late to the convention. He made it clear it must go on.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: And it is going on, Erin, big time. We saw the GOP officially hand Donald Trump his historic third presidential nomination and now they're getting ready to drive home his agenda, leading off with the issue then uppermost in the minds of many voters of course, the U.S. economy.
 
Headlines speakers tonight include one of Trump's most loyal allies of the U.S. Senate, and in the African-American community, Tim Scott of South Carolina, Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin, a very popular figure in this state that shaping up to be a battleground in the 2024 presidential race would talk to me about Virginia. 
 
Meanwhile, the South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem, a very prominent voice in the MAGA movement, will be speaking as well. And coming up soon, Senator Katie Britt of Alabama, who gained notoriety she delivered the Republican response to President Biden's State of the Union Address earlier this year. 
 
Erin, back to you. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Wolf, so let's go straight to Kaitlan Collins on the convention floor and, Kaitlan, you've been talking to Republicans there through the day. What are you learning about Donald Trump's thinking at this moment? 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's notable, Erin, when obviously I picked, did finally come down that it was Ohio Senator JD Vance because what I have been hearing from sources and also from lawmakers here on the floor Trump was still wage of the violence that he had in his mind as of this morning, all three of those finalists traveled, to go walking, not knowing that they were actually going to be to pick whether or not they were. 
 
Senator Marco Rubio, Governor Doug Burgum, and Senator Vance all came here still waiting to find out at JD Vance actually finding out about 20 minutes toward Trump posted on Truth Social that he was indeed his selection, obviously, a full circle moment for the senator from Ohio, given his harsh criticism of Trump back in the day which he has later said he's changed his mind on. 
 
But I should note that over the last 24 hours, what Trump was doing in these conversations was weighing the pros and cons of what they would bring in his ticket, what would mean for his chances in November. And I'm told that he became, Erin, so focused on this last 24 hours that he was kind of brushing off questions about his health and instead saying, what do you think of this person for VP. 
 
Should I pick them? What do you do? Like, what does that look like? He was getting calls from Rupert Murdoch, Elon Musk, essentially, everyone under the sun who had an opinion and about who they would like to see on that ticket with that. 
 
But, of course, we saw Senator Vance over here. I'm on the delegation floor. You can see Florida could see Florida is right behind me. We've got Pennsylvania and Wisconsin delegations right here to must-win states for Donald Trump come November, a lot of action is going to happen on this floor. 
 
We are told a lot of the speeches that you're going to hear had been rewritten since what happened on Saturday night, namely the ones on the main stage. So keep an eye out for that. And what has been changed in the light of that attempted assassination of the former president, Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right, Kaitlan. Thank you very much. 
 
So now, let's go down towards the podium. That's where Boris Sanchez is right now.
 
And, Boris, this is obviously going to be a significant evening. So tell us what you're learning and where you are right now.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Erin, were just off to the side of the stage and it is quite loud. 
 
The ground was shaking from the speakers. You outlined some of the prominent Republicans over going to hear from tonight, Senators Ron Johnson, Tim Scott, Katie Britt, were also going to hear from some celebrity entertainers. There's a country singer, Chris Janson, because perform a couple of songs, including one about buying a boat. 
 
We're also going to see a supermodel turn rapper Amber Rose, Kanye West's ex-girlfriend is set to give a speech at the RNC, not something you'd likely would have how on your bingo card for 2024 RNC. Notably, Republicans are not counting on those big names go to sell
 
 their message. The message tonight, the theme of the evening is make America wealthy again and there touting everyday Americans who are set to take the stage. 
 <br>[19:05:04]
 
They have a slew of speakers including a single mom of tune from Arizona, who's having a hard time to make ends meet. He's working two jobs. Aside from that, you have a Peruvian immigrant mom who's also talked about inflation. And lastly, you have a long time -- a long time a lifelong Democratic Teamster who says that he's switching parties in this election to vote for economic policies of Donald Trump.
 
And then hanging over all of those speakers, the big question, will we see the former president for the first time, his first major public appearance attempted assassination over the weekend -- Erin. 
 
BURNETT: It's going to be a crucial question, obviously, the last convention, the big in-person when he appeared all four days, Kristen Holmes, what are you learning? 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is the big question, right? Whether or not he is actually going to appear, but we are told by aides and advisers that he is eager to get onto the convention floor that he wants to be interacting with supporters. He wants to be interacting with allies, aides, advisors after that failed assassination attempt on Saturday. 
 
And I've talked to a number of people who have spoken to him can who say that they've seen a new kind of resolve and determination in the former president ahead of November.
 
One of his big focuses has been on this message of unity. Now, we don't know if that's going to hold. But one thing you heard Kaitlan Collins mentioning there on the floor is the fact that so many people have been rewriting their speeches. One of those people who has then rewriting their speech, former President Donald Trump as well.
 
BURNETT: All right. Kristen, right now, lets just listen in here to Michael Whatley. He's the chairman of the Republican National Committee beginning this first convention night in prime time.
 
MICHAEL WHATLEY, RNC CHAIRMAN: To give the invocation, please welcome Most Reverend Jerome Listecki, Catholic archbishop of Milwaukee.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
MOST REV. JEROME LISTECKI, CATHOLIC ARCHBISHOP OF MILWAUKEE: And let us pray. Lord, we thank you for our nation, our Founding Fathers held these truths self-evident that all are created equal, endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, including life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
 
For 248 years, we have sustained this vision to guard, the, dignity of every life from conception to natural death, to protect their liberty especially to speak freely and to worship view and to support their pursuit of happiness through this life, to the next. We pray that you assist our elected officials and candidates always to protect our freedoms, to preserve our democracy, and to govern fairly. Grant them the wisdom every day to place the good of our nation above personal interests, and to cherish our union.
 
Teach us all to respect justice and our equality before the law. Lord, protect our military, teach us gratitude that we may never forget their selfless sacrifice and protect also our first responders, police, firefighters, and EMTs for their bravery to give us peace.
 
There is a sacrifice at all Americans make to participate in the political process. We asked you to receive his servant, Corey Comperatore, and we pray for those who were injured demonstrating their commitment to our democratic process. Let us offer a moment of silence. 
 
(MOMENT OF SILENCE)
 
In the words of George Washington, Almighty God, keep the United States of America in the holy protection and in incline the hearts of the citizens to a brotherly affection, and love for one another through Jesus Christ, our Lord, amen. 
 
(CHEERS)
 
ANNOUNCER: Please rise for the presentation of colors. The colors are presented by the Hartford Police Department honor guard. Let's give them a warm welcome.
 <br>[19:10:00]
 
(PRESENTATION OF COLORS)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you will, follow me.
 
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 
(CHEERS)
 
ANNOUNCER: Now, to perform the national anthem, please welcome the Great Lakes Adult and Teen Challenge Choir.
 
(NATIONAL ANTHEM)
 
BURNETT: The national anthem, the pledge of allegiance, presentation of colors, Jonah, all with the somber reality of, of course, what happened on Saturday night. 
 
JONAH GOLDBERG, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yeah. I mean, this is -- I mean, the beginning of conventions, is almost always wholesome, and does this kind of thing well, and to do it in the wake of an assassination attempt makes all the more sense. So I mean, there no fireworks here. I think we might get fireworks later, but this is -- this is the patriotic bunting that you would expect at the beginning. 
 
JAMAL SIMMONS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I love conventions. I think people come from all over the country who really care about politics. They're making their points known. There building connections between each other that will matter when it comes time to campaign pain for the rest of the fall. 
 
I think it's a great time for people to come together and around the things they believe in and get to be around people who also believe in similar things. 
 
BURNETT: And that is, there is that, that moment, right? Where everybody and you're and you're putting on a show for obviously for their own party but also here for everybody to see.
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yeah, look, I think this is an opportunity for conservatives to showcase a deep interrogation, an examination of what makes conservative philosophy and policies work. It's about the preservation of aesthetics culturally. It's about free market ideas. It's about a prioritizing the individual and families, and not prioritizing others outside of the country, which I think most conservatives would argue is the liberal position.
 <br>[19:15:11]
 
And so this is an incredible opportunity. Erin, I would argue for the American people to not only look at so many different Republicans from all over the country, you see African-Americans there, Hispanic Americans there, showcase representation of who we are today, but also for Americans who are concerned about where were headed, about the division. 
 
And so I think that assassination attempt on the former president's life completely redirects what people will see this week.
 
GOLDBERG: The test will be Marjorie Taylor Greene, if she can be disciplined.
 
KRISTEN SOLTIS ANDERSON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think it's important not to --  
 
BURNETT: Marjorie Taylor Greene is speaking tonight. 
 
ANDERSON: Yes. I think its not its important not to take for granted that this is even happening. First of all, Donald Trump is well enough that we can be sitting here speculating whether hell be on stage rather than the very different way this could have turned out following Saturday, but also remember we haven't had a convention since 2016. We had these this ritual of our democracy was canceled because of the COVID pandemic four years ago. So it's kind of nice to be back experiencing something like this. 
 
SIMMONS: And the older I get, the more than rituals seem to matter, right? I mean, because if we didn't mean, we would invent them because we actually we learned this in 2020 as you're just talking about, Kristen, when we didn't have it, I think we missed it. We wanted to come together and figure out how we were going to move forward in the election. 
 
GOLDBERG: It's also been 16 years since the GOP is nominated somebody other than Donald Trump? 
 
BURNETT: That's which is an incredible thing about.
 
GOLDBERG: Yeah.
 
BURNETT: So, in terms of who were going to hear from and were going to be taking many of these alive over the night so that everyone at home can be a part of this as well, you're going to see rising stars in the Republican Party, Wesley Hunt from Texas is going to be one of those, Jamal, Marjorie Taylor Greene, though, is going to speak, Katie Britt, who of course have given the rebuttal, as we all remember from State of the Union, Tim Scott is tonight. Glenn Youngkin, governor of Virginia, is tonight.
 
And also some voices in the economic community, some of whom have been very loud. David Sacks -- anyone who follows social media knows is just going to be sort of a broad grouping of people tonight, some of whom are among the more strident voices in the party. 
 
SIMMONS: Absolutely. Some of them are the vice presidential also-rans, right? The Kristi Noem and the Glenn Youngkins, they were mentioned.
 
BURNETT: Yeah.
 
SIMMONS: And then the one thing when you talk to people who are doing research and polling out in America, like, Kristen, some of her colleagues is the person who's most identify with MAGA other than Donald Trump is Marjorie Taylor Greene. She's one of a few people that Americans know by name. The rest of us do these other names. They know Marjorie Taylor Greene and she's not very popular at least with people who are in our side and who might be winnable for Joe Biden.
 
BURNETT: But she has a crucial position tonight. She is one of the first name. She's going to be speaking this hour. 
 
GOLDBERG: Yeah. 
 
BURNETT: Marjorie Taylor Greene.
 
GOLDBERG: No, and she's going to be torn between the devil and her shoulder in the devil on her other shoulder, I mean, in so far as her whole shtick is to be a bomb thrower to raise small-dollar donations. That's -- she's one of the biggest fundraisers from small-dollar donations. 
 
And at the same time, part of her brand is being intensely loyal to Donald Trump. The word is apparently come out from the Trump campaign to downplay the crazy, to downplay the violent rhetoric. And it'd be very interesting to see if she can follow orders. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Well, we will all be there for that. As I said, shell be among the first here speaking later this hour.
 
And coming up, well also be speaking with Eric Trump as his father officially receives the Republican nomination. You're watching CNN's live coverage of the Republican National Convention. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:22:50]
 
BLITZER: And welcome back to CNN special live coverage of the Republican National Convention right here in Milwaukee. It's time for the opening night after a day filled with a lot of excitement, Donald Trump revealing his vice presidential pick, Senator JD Vance of Ohio, his delegates from across the United States have officially handed him his third GOP nomination. 
 
Let's go right back to CNN'S Phil Mattingly on the convention floor for us. He's got a special guest. 
 
Phil?
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF DOMESTIC CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Wolf. I'm here with South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster.
 
Governor, we appreciate your time. 
 
I want to start with the breaking news of a couple of hours ago. Senator JD Vance, the selection to be Donald Trump's running mate. What did you think? 
 
GOV. HENRY MCMASTER (R-SC): I though it is a great choice tours he had a lot of good people to choose from. But I think JD Vance is perfect. Those two men think alike. They like each other. They want to take to country in the same direction. I think they'll be great, great team, maybe the perfect team.
 
MATTINGLY: You know, your home state of South Carolina. We were joking before this. People seem to have figured out its a pretty good place to hang out. You had to very high-profile politicians who ran against the former president, one of whom Tim Scott was considered in the running. Are you disappointed that it won't be Senator Scott is speaking tonight? 
 
MCMASTER: Tim Scott is terrific. I've known him since I was party chairman and '95 and he was running for county council at large and in Charleston County. And we got behind him, a lot of people got behind him. We had faith in him and he's lived up to everything we expected.
 
He is a terrific man. He would have been a terrific vice president as well. He's a great senator and there's a lot of mileage left in Tim Scott and we are happy that he's gone stay in politics, I hope for a long time.
 
MATTINGLY: They certainly play a significant role.
 
Real quick before I let you go, in the wake of the assassination attempt, what is the feeling here on the ground in Milwaukee? 
 
MCCMASTER: People -- people think that that was a miracle. It was something that must have been an answer to prayers. People praying for President Trump's safety, but there is no jobs. These people all over the country are beyond anything, anything so far.
 <br>[19:25:03]
 
It has -- it has made a total package for President Trump for those who had doubts about him, when they saw the way he handled that and he saw in the way that people responded to that. So his straight and I think he is, he is he is his face is the picture of strength in America, right now. And these people in this room and all over the country would do anything for that man. We believe in him, we think he is the exact right man for so these times, perfect.
 
MCMASTER: Governor Henry McMaster, appreciate your time tonight, sir. Thank you very much. 
 
Wolf, back to you. 
 
BLITZER: All right. Phil, thank you very much. 
 
Let's get some analysis of what's going on right now. History unfolding right here in Milwaukee. 
 
David Chalian, what do you expect to hear from the various speakers at this Republican convention tonight? Specifically the message that they will deliver and the tone?
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Well, I think the message is going to be very economic focus. They're doing a different slice each night of the convention. So tonight is going to be make America wealthy once again, what the branding people put on this.
 
But you're going to hear the economic argument. Quite frankly, which has been the argument that you've heard Donald Trump making on the campaign trail throughout the entirety of this campaign, that prices are too high. And again, prices have come down. I understand where the statistics are in that, but we also see in a lot of the research on in conversations with voters, you hear people still experiencing economic pain, just in the prices of what they're paying at the supermarket and the like, and I have no doubt we're going to hear a lot of that.
 
The other thing that's infused in this program, Wolf, and I, what they call everyday Americans. And you're going to hear, in addition to politics, right now, Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson behind his address to the convention, you're going to hear from everyday Americans who have very identifiable stories. This to me is part of the play of trying to broaden the appeal that the Republican Party is making here.
 
They understand mostly partisans tune in and watch this, but it's a huge opportunity to try in these battleground states to try and reach some of these critical voters and I think having everyday Americans tell the economic pain story is going to be part of the table.
 
BLITZER: Everybody, stand by. I want to go down to Kaitlan. She's here at the Republican Convention with a special guest -- Kaitlan. 
 
COLLINS: Yeah, Wolf, thank you. 
 
I am here just above the convention floor. I'm sitting here with Eric Trump, of course, Donald Trump's son who was down there earlier as his father clenched the nomination formally and was put over the top with a number of delegates. 
 
Thank you for being here. 
 
First, can we just talk about the last 48 hours because it's been pretty remarkable, 48 hours for your family?
 
When you talk to your dad about what happened on Saturday night, that attempted assassination, what does he told you about what those moments were like? 
 
ERIC TRUMP, SON OF DONALD TRUMP: Listen, it's terrible. I sat there with my, you know, two infant children, I watched the whole thing happening. I can obviously recognize a sounded gunshots and you hear them coming across, you know, the TV screens and it's horrifying, right? He had blood coming out as ear, he had blood on his face. He was on the ground. You didn't know where else he had possibly been hit.
 
Obviously, it was a huge sign of relief when he got up, when he put his fist in the air and said fight, fight, fight, and there's an incredibly courageous moment. But its heartbreaking as a son. I mean, first of all, it's heartbreaking for this nation. Our nation you should not be in that spot ever, ever, ever, ever. But -- 
 
COLLINS: It has been scary though as a son. 
 
E. TRUMP: It's terrifying. I love the man. These are remarkable father. He's been a great guy to me. I obviously, you know, there's no one that supported him the way I have. I stood on the stage every single day for the last 8, 9 years of politics and our family. I run our company. 
 
He's just a special guy. He's a big part of my life. He's my best friend. And yeah, to se him get shot at, it's unthinkable. 
 
COLLINS: Did it take you a long time to get in touch with him and to be able to actually talk to them?
 
E. TRUMP: Listen, I know everybody in the ecosystem, as you can probably imagine. So, I was contact with him when they were in the vehicles, but no one quite know what was happening until they got to hospital.
 
And, finally, he was in the hospital and I get a call from him and he cracked a little joke and I knew, you know, the Donald Trump, I know the father, I know is his back and he was kind of surprising to have that kind of spirit right after that happened. 
 
I mean, his life could have been taken a heartbeat, almost was, and in other people's lives were taken that day and it was scary. It was incredibly scary, but again, just a remarkable person. 
 
COLLINS: Do you think gets sunk and for him, that he was within an inch of his life? I mean, that's something every president I think is worried about. There are threats. You have Secret Service protection, but has he grappled with the fact that it was so close? 
 
E. TRUMP: It was less than inch. Had he -- he turns his head like this right before the shot broke. Had he not turned his head, he'd be dead right now, you know? That's how close this was. 
 
I mean, obviously he had hit his ear. Yes, he's certainly understands how close it was and at the same time, he's not deterred. I remember the first thing he said when I spoke in the hospital is nothing changed with the RNC. I'm going to be there tomorrow, as I had initially planned ago. 
 
You were still in the hospital. You're about to get a CAT scan and you were not changing anything? I am going to be in Milwaukee when we said we're going to be in Milwaukee.
 
COLLINS: Well, we'll see, we'd be like, they're singing live here right now. It's just a celebratory environment, to go from something so sobering, so this must be kind of jarring for you.
 <br>[19:30:08]
 
When you look at that it and just, you know, what happened, your dad has come out and said he wants to see unity. That is what he's seeking for. What is that going to look like in his speech, how different is that?
 
E. TRUMP: This piece is amazing and it's incredibly positive.
 
And you're right, you go from there darkest moment to what I did a couple hours ago when I learned cast they final delegate vote in the state of Florida that made him the Republican nominee for president of the United States, right? I mean, think about that shift in a 48-hour period of time from almost in your father get killed to casting that vote, you know? And he's going to go walk up on that stage and a few days and do something great and its going to be a positive message. 
 
This country has to come together. It's enough of this stuff already and we need to make America strong. We need to make America safe. We need to make America great. 
 
People love the flag and you look at happiness in this room right now as people dancing, cowboy hats, you've got American flags I mean, the spirit in this room is incredible. And that shouldn't be demonized. It shouldn't. 
 
If you have disagreements on political issues are fine, but it should not be demonized.
 
COLLINS: Yeah. Do you think it's altered what the next four months look like? I covered your dad's first campaign. I covered a second campaign. What does it change about what these next 100 days, what it looked like beforehand? 
 
E. TRUMP: Well, I certainly hope it does. Politics is ugly business. I never possibly imagine how ugly it would have been. I think we're all naive. We grew up in a big world, right? In a real estate, it's a cut- throat business, nothing compared to politics. 
 
And, you know, I think -- I think politics needs to be dealt with a lot more respect and a lot more love and even when I was down there before, not you, not your network, but, you know, I was attacked by one of the networks and MSNBC, and I'm saying there, saying it's less than 48 hours after guy almost took a bullet in the head and you're already just going crazy on total, you know, we've got to cool it down, we've got to stop.
 
I think you're going to see a beautiful speech. You're going to see motivational speech and I'm proud of the man. He did not need this life. He could be living a billionaire's life in Palm Beach, Florida, and every day he wants to go out and fight for them American people, and it's remarkable.
 
I can tell you, if you had 1,000 peers of his, none of them would do what he did. They wouldn't have that fight. They wouldn't have that energy. They wouldn't want to do it.
 
I love the man to death. He's a remarkable human being, and I'm incredibly proud to be his son.
 
COLLINS: Well, I think everyone could say they're glad that he's safe.
 
Eric Trump, thank you for joining us and talking about that.
 
Wolf, obviously, to just hear what those moments were like, we were all watching them as a country, as reporters, but also to hear from his family and what it was like, Wolf.
 
TAPPER: Kaitlan, thank you very much. Thanks, Eric Trump, as well. 
 
Just ahead, much more of our special coverage of the Republican National Convention, Georgia's Republican Governor Brian Kemp is standing by live. He will join us. We're also expecting to hear from conservative Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene on the convention stage.
 
And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:36:53]
 
BURNETT: The convention is underway. Let's get straight to Kristen Holmes. 
 
Kristen, you've got some breaking details here about the former president.
 
(AUDIO GAP) HOLMES: -- up here at the convention later tonight, the timing of that is still fluid and we are still learning new details as to what this would look like. Now, if this done happen, obviously, everything with the former president is -- it's up in the air. We don't know what exactly this is going to look like.
 
But one thing to note here and I'm telling -- I'm being told that perhaps you didn't hear the top of what I said. So I'm going to go again. 
 
A source familiar with the matter tells us that former President Donald Trump is expected to appear tonight at the convention. This will be his first appearance since he was shot in that attempted assassination on Saturday. We are told that he has been eager to get out here to the convention that he has been eager to meet with supporters and with allies, that this has brought him a use of determination and resolve. 
 
Now, what exactly this looks like tonight. Obviously, we will wait and see Erin but that is clearly big news that the former president is expected to be here later tonight.
 
BURNETT: Absolutely. And as you point out, I mean, he was shot on Saturday and he had actually originally planned to delay even going to Milwaukee by a couple of days and then went ahead with his plans. He's there and going to appear on this first night at the program obviously is underway. 
 
We do anticipate Marjorie Taylor Greene is going to be speaking in just a few moments. 
 
Jonah, let me just start with you here though, to respond to what Kristen just reported the former president is going to come out tonight. Now, obviously, the last time there was an in-person convention, he went every night.
 
GOLDBERG: Right. But this is a very different year, this is after Saturday, and it is important to him. He obviously wants to get out there. So, the first night he's there. Yeah. 
 
I mean, again, I think you're right. I mean, he loves the crowds at this thing. He you know, the whole WWE kind of thing. But at the same time, it's kind -- it's an impressive gesture, right? He's just got shot, you know, in the -- took off part of his ear a millimeter morning would have been dead. And it kind of reminds me a little bit of him doing the fist up at when he had COVID from the car, right. He just wants to say send that message. 
 
What will be very interesting to me is whether or not bandage on it, whether he has his hair over it, or whether he wants the cameras to see it because he cares about visuals so much and how that plays. I just have no idea. 
 
BURNETT: Well, that's actually a really important point. 
 
SIMMONS: It is. You can say what you want to say about Donald Trump than I have a lot to say about Donald Trump, but he really does understand the show, right? I think from you're talking about him in the car sort of waving. But I think about when he came back from COVID, and the climb the steps back to the Truman balcony and sort of stood there like Superman and the way that everybody and then went inside maybe collapse. I don't know. 
 
But for that moment, he understood how to command attention and I think that's part of the appeal of Trump is that he seems like he's a guy who's really in charge, at least of himself in the environment. That's happening around him. 
 <br>[19:40:01]
 
And I think people really respond to that.
 
Now, I would say wants to do a lot of things with that being in charge that most of us don't want him to do like get rid of abortion, but for the -- for the average person it does feel like here's like a really big man.
 
ANDERSON: Remember the other time that Trump came out, maybe a little unexpectedly at a convention was in 2016 when Ted Cruz was speaking and was giving a speech that seemed perhaps insufficiently positive about Donald Trump and Trump came out and just kind of stood there silently and sent this message of strength like, okay, Senator Cruz, are you going to get on board or not? 
 
So, he has used the "I pop up at the convention" to send really, and wordlessly to send a message of strength has done that before. 
 
SIMMONS: Yeah.
 
SINGLETON: I think people want to see him. This guy is 78-years-old. We're talking about a senior citizen who was shot. I'm a gun owner. I own a gun company. I don't understand -- I don't know if people really understand what it's like to be in the midst of crossfire for anybody, let along someone who is almost 80-years-old.
 
I can't imagine that this hasn't changed his outlook on life. Erin, and I hope he does show the scar, show the battle scar, you will. Republicans want to see that. His base would love, love to see that.
 
BURENTT: Hard to imagine that he doesn't. 
 
SINGLETON: Yeah, it is hard. They would love to see that. So I think this is a good moment, not just for Republicans, but also for the country we almost lost a former president and whatever differences you may have about Donald Trump, experiencing something like that is absolutely life-changing and it's good that he's coming out there not just only for Republicans, for the country, and I would also say for the world. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Well, of course, as our coverage here continues. We're awaiting Marjorie Taylor Greene, one of the first to speak tonight. We don't exactly know when hell be coming on stage, Wolf, but now we do know this first night, he will be coming out. BLITZER: Meantime, we've been listening really, very, very excellent musical presentation going on right now. 
 
Chris Janson, the country music star, feel like Audie and I should be getting up and dancing a little bit. We'll do that later. 
 
CORNISH: The screen myself.
 
BLITZER: Right now, we have this very special guests the governor of Georgia, Republican governor of Georgia, Brian Kemp.
 
Governor, thanks very much. Likely, you've been enjoying this music -- 
 
GOV. BRIAN KEMP (R), GEORGIA: They're playing a lot of it. 
 
BLITZER: Thanks very much for joining us.
 
We're standing by. We're going to be hearing directly from Marjorie Taylor Greene, U.S. congresswoman from your state of Georgia. What do you expect she will say to this --  
 
KEMP: Well, I think, I think she'll do a lot of what the crowds doing, what the bands doing, what the chairman's doing, and just trying to get the delegates fired up.
 
BLITZER: She's walking up to the stage right now. We will continue this conversation, Governor. I want to hear what she has to say. 
 
REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 
Today is a celebration. The American spirit is alive and well, and we have once again nominated for president the founding father of the America First movement, Donald John Trump.
 
(CHEERS)
 
Unfortunately, this is also a somber moment for our nation. Two days ago, evil came for the man we admire and love so much. I thank God that his hand was on President Trump.
 
(CHEERS)
 
And I pray for the family of Corey Comperatore who was killed at the rally. And for other attendees who were wounded. Corey embodied the spirit of America First. He displayed the ultimate show of love when he shielded his wife and daughter sacrificing his own life. He reminded America of what we must be, a people who will do whatever it takes to defend the people and the nation that we love. 
 
(CHEERS)
 
Thank you. I love you, too.
 
We will honor Corey's memory by building the country he wanted. The country he wanted for his children and a government worthy of the American people. For far too long, the establishment in Washington has sold us out. 
 
They promised unity and delivered division. They promised peace, and brought war. They promised normalcy and gave us transgender visibility day on Easter Sunday.
 
(BOOS)
 
And let me state this clearly: there are only two genders.
 
(CHEERS)
 <br>[19:45:14]
 
And we are made in God's image, amen. 
 
And we won't shy away from speaking that simple truth ever. The Democrats ripped up in our borders and allowed millions of illegal aliens to pore in, driving up the cost of housing and health care, while slashing American wages and eliminating jobs. 
 
They claim that our economy is thriving, yet hundreds of thousands of American born workers lost their jobs these past few years. 
 
The Democrats' economy is of, by and for illegal aliens. 
 
Our open borders have also unleashed the worst drug crisis in American history. Yet, while hundreds of thousands of Americans are suffering, the Democrats spent over $175 billion your tax dollars to secure Ukraine's borders.
 
(BOOS)
 
But they tell us the border wall is too expensive. 
 
But in American government that serves the interests, not of the wealthy, the globalist or the powerful few, but of all hardworking Americans is within our grasp.
 
Donald Trump has and he will make America successful again. He will make us wealthy again. And as God as my witness, he will finally give us the country we deserve.
 
Because Donald John Trump is the leader American deserves. God bless the American people. God bless President Trump and God bless the United States of America!
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
BLITZER: Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia, Republican of Georgia, speaking here at Republican National Convention in Milwaukee.
 
We were talking with Republican Governor Brian Kemp of Georgia just before, but I want to continue that conversation. 
 
What was your reaction? Was that a message of unity that we heard from Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene?
 
KEMP: Well, certainly. Thank her tone when she started talking about the events of Saturday, the tragic loss for really a great American hero and a father protected his family was right on point. You know, when she moved into the more talking points the campaign and the issues in the race.
 
I mean, look, she's got a great point on things like the border. A lot of Americans are frustrated out there. A lot of the policies of the Biden administration's what I'm hearing about every single day from hard working Georgians, they can't afford four more years of Joe Biden.
 
BLITZER: At one point, she said the establishment in Washington has sold us out. You agree with her?
 
KEMP: Well, I think the establishment in Washington for a long time now, from a Republican governor's perspective, there's a lot -- been a lot of frustration from that, which is one reason that you know, we have really, I think not only myself, but a lot of other good Republican governors have really tried to take the policy lead over the last several years and be the incubators of democracy. 
 
And so, you know, look, I'm as frustrated with the federal government as she is. 
 
BLITZER: As you know, President Biden carried Georgia, your home state by a fraction of a percentage point in 2020. What does Trump need to do to win Georgia this time?
 
KEMP: Well, I've been saying for a long time and Chairman Whatley said this just a couple of days ago in an interview.
 
BLITZER: The chairman of the Republican --  
 
KEMP: The chairman of the Republican Party, and the chairman of the convention here, soggy about this, this week is a great opportunity for Republicans to tell people what were for, why they should vote for us and stay focused on the future, not look in the rearview mirror, not talk of days gone by in 2020, but really, you know, to the people that are hurting out there across this country, to the swing voters and persuadable voters that are out there, give them a message in a reason to vote Republican and the vote for Donald Trump for president. 
 
And I think he's got a great opportunity to do that with not only the record of Joe Biden, but also the division in the Democratic Party right now. 
 
BLITZER: What do you think, if anything, the impact of the horrible assassination attempt against former President Trump over the past weekend?
 <br>[19:50:07]
 
What's going to be the political impact of that going into the solution? KEMP: Well, just an incredible moment for our country. I mean, for me
 
 it was, you know, I was very sad that something like that could happen in today's politics. But also very thankful that he survived but also just hurt that, you know, you got a family that lost a husband and a father and I'm sure a son. 
 
You've got two people there were injured and it was this horrible. But I think the way Trump displayed strength through that is only going to be positive for him. I think it'll help galvanize the Republican base. 
 
But also I think, Wolf, it gives him a great opportunity to be a positive messenger in the future, you know, him and President Biden both talked about unity. I think it gives him a great opportunity to do that this week. And really move his campaign to a different level. 
 
BLITZER: Governor Brian Kemp of Georgia, great state, thanks very much for coming in.
 
Erin, back to you. 
 
BURNETT: All right, Wolf.
 
All right. Obviously, the governor of Georgia there talking after Marjorie Taylor Greene, who came out and obviously at the very beginning and he referenced this she talked about what happened Saturday. She talked about Mr. Comperatore who died. And then she went to her previously scheduled speech.
 
SIMMONS: Yeah, you know, obviously she talked about trans youth, two genders.
 
Here's -- here's one question for me after Saturday, it just comes even more. How is it that we're all supposed to live together here, right? Like that's supposed to be part of what the politicians are up to is proving out, how it as we made the country better, but how it is we make more and more people included in it. 
 
But maybe there's another agenda, that's Marjorie Taylor's agenda which doesn't actually include all Americans. And I think that's the thing for fairly people in the left, but a lot of people the center, they want to have a country where you can just live your life and nobody sort of gets in the way of you and your business. 
 
But there seems to be a lot of people in the MAGA side --  
 
BURNETT: It used to be a very Republican view actually towards the libertarian.
 
SIMMONS: Right. A lot of MAGA people are now saying that's not what they want, but actually what the government to be able to say what's right and what's wrong. 
 
BURNETT: Because in her few minutes that she spoke, Jonah, and this is an important speech, right? This is leading into the first night, the president of the United States, the former president of the United States going to be out there tonight. And right after she talked about Saturday, she said -- talked about transgender awareness day being on Easter Sunday, and that being unacceptable. And then she said to be clear, there's only two genders. She used her time to do it.
 
GOLDBERG: Look, I get it. I will say just as the debutante of horseshoe theory, the left has an anti-libertarian thing too about making bakers have to pay big -- bake visages that they don't want to make, and all that kind of stuff. I don't like either of it on both sides. 
 
That said, if I'm playing in this convention and you know, you got to give a slot to Marjorie Taylor Greene, on the one hand, introducing people on the first day to her, not great. On the other hand, getting it out of the way and thinking that your other messaging will bury it, might make a lot of sense. 
 
ANDERSOIN: What strikes me about this is when you think about the bucket of issues we think of as the social issues, right? Typically, we think of things like abortion in that bucket. But actually, the party platform slightly maybe kind of moderated on this. 
 
I have asked in my polling among Republican voters, what do you think of as the most critical cultural challenges facing the country and the tradition? Chanel quote-unquote social issues, things like abortion or further down on the list, then things like conservatives feeling like new ideologies around race and gender are coming for them. And so, this is, in some ways, it's a reflection of the new way that conservatives prioritize -- 
 
GOLDBERG: Good point.
 
BURNETT: So, looking -- when you talk about talking to the base, the trans -- the fact that she would pick Trump and gender be so specific about it actually fits. 
 
ANDERSON: It definitely speaks to the base, but it's also the sort of area where Republicans believed Democrats have misplayed their hand. They believed Democrats have gone overboard and that sort of normal mainstream Americans think it is actually Democrats, not Republicans who are outside the mainstream.
 
SINGLETON: Yeah. I mean, mainstream polling suggests that there's some truth to that even, among Democrats, particularly among Democrats of color. 
 
But look you know, you get, you have the sprinkle in some salt and pepper for the base. I think that's what you do with Marjorie Taylor Greene. They're going to be some other, more controversial characters there who may say things that people don't like. 
 
You have to do that. But I think overall, Erin, most people are thinking about JD Vance, who he is. I want to know more about JD Vance and not so much about what Marjorie Taylor Greene reinstated. 
 
BURNETT: Right, although, you know, when you're looking at trying to win over those voters in the middle, or people who are looking or people who are maybe giving Trump a second chance, second look after Saturday, obviously, that's not what you're going to put out there.
 
But we will get some of that tonight. You're going to have -- you'll have Tim Scott tonight. You'll have Glenn Youngkin, governor of Virginia there. They are putting other very different sorts of voices out tonight.
 
SIMMONS: Absolutely. And some of this will be used by the Democrats in order to fundraise. So, keep in mind, this video doesn't just live in Republican -- in the Republican era. 
 <br>[19:55:03]
 
Democrats will grab a hold of some of this and shoot to their base and say, look, if Trump gets elected, these are the people he's going to put in charge. 
 
BURNETT: Yeah.
 
All right. Well, thanks to all of you, of course, as our coverage here continues. We are expecting that appearance by Donald Trump tonight on the first night of the convention, as well as several high profile convention speakers. I mentioned a couple of them, Glenn Youngkin, also Tim Scott. There will be more on that list. Kristi Noem, others in that party. 
 
How will their remarks play with delegates, and with voters watching at home, like we said, who might be looking at is very differently? Our coverage continues right after this quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANNOUNCER: All eyes are on Wisconsin, as a history-making convention gets underway, two days after Donald Trump survived a horrific assassination attempt, Republicans rallying to support him, and doing something they've never done before -- nominate the former president to be their next president. 
 
Tonight, in Milwaukee, Donald Trump and his new running mate put forward their vision for America as one of the most consequential and tradition-shattering presidential races ever shifts into a new year, along with these high profile speakers, Senator Tim Scott, Governor Glenn Youngkin, and Governor Kristi Noem.