Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Concerns Over Potential Israeli Ground Operation in Rafah; Families Want International Criminal Court to Issue Arrest Warrants for Hamas Leaders; Prabowo Claims Victory as Unofficial Tally Shows Big Lead; Palantir CEO on Winners and Losers of AI; Bayern Munich Take on Lazio in Champions League. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired February 14, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, I'm at the World Government Summit where India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the star 
 
 attraction today. AI innovation, global health, huge talkers here and you will hear from some of the world's biggest thinkers in the next two hours.
 
Its 6 pm in Dubai, I'm Becky Anderson. This is "Connect the World". Well, President Erdogan who spoke yesterday at the summit in Dubai where I am now 
 
 of course is in Cairo. He will discuss the situation in the Gaza Strip with the Egyptian President. And Ukraine's military leaders are claiming a big 
 
 victory at sea against Vladimir Putin's navy.
 
Well the IDF says it has begun an extensive wave of attacks in Lebanon as local media there report air raids on several towns in the southern part of 
 
 the country. This comes after a rocket attack on the Northern Israeli City of Safed on Wednesday, which responders say killed one person.
 
The IDF says the rocket originated in Lebanon. Meantime, the Palestinian Authority President trying to prevent what he fears would be another 
 
 catastrophe and move into Rafah by the Israeli military. Mahmoud Abbas, calling on Hamas to quickly cement a deal for the release of hostages in 
 
 Gaza and a pause in fighting look this as a growing chorus of world leaders and aid organizations warn against an Israeli ground offensive in Rafah.
 
More than a million Palestinians packed into the Gazan City, which Israel directed civilians too. The U.N.'s Relief Chief says a military push into 
 
 that area could lead to "slaughter". A lot happening, our International Diplomatic Editor, Nic Robertson is following this from Tel Aviv for you. 
 
 Nic, where do you want to start this hour?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Well, let's look at those strikes north of the border in the southern part of Lebanon because 
 
 they seem to be marking a slight uptick in activity, Israeli Air Force activity, responding to what appears to be strikes coming from within 
 
 Lebanon, presumably Hezbollah at this stage of the incident you are talking about in spite which is a very important military base or houses.
 
Very important military base fairly close to the Lebanese border. We understand as well as the report you have which is one person killed, eight 
 
 people were injured one of them seriously were moderately the others with relatively light injuries. It's not clear how many missiles were fired into 
 
 Israel yet.
 
But overnight or late last night, the Israeli Air Force conducted a couple of strikes inside of the South of Lebanon again, and those seem to come off 
 
 the back of Hezbollah strikes inside Israel earlier on Tuesday. This is not a massive escalation. But it does seem to mark just that slow, slow uptake 
 
 that we've been seeing where it goes from here.
 
I mean, typically expect both sides to respond to each other. But so far, neither is going sort of all out if you will, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Right. Important to mark as we continue to watch what is going on in the very southern tip of the Gaza Strip where so many Palestinians are 
 
 hemmed up against the Egyptian border there, any evidence at this point of a ground offensive by Israel's military, any evidence of a buildup of 
 
 troops on the ground there?
 
ROBERTSON: I don't think we're seeing that yet. The military, the IDF is still tied up to a degree and Khan Younis just north of there. Obviously 
 
 though 1.4 million people displaced the vast majority of them in Rafah itself. Some of them have left the area to try to get further north in Khan 
 
 Younis skirt that on the Mediterranean seaboard and try to seek safety for what may come.
 
We're hearing a joint move the European Union today in Brussels by the Spanish Prime Minister and the Irish Prime Minister, Leo Varadkar the 
 
 Taoiseach the Prime Minister in Ireland yesterday, describing what could be a massacre.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
You know, a very bloody situation if the IDF goes into Rafah and what they're pushing these two Prime Ministers are pushing the European Union to 
 
 do is to make sure that in Israel's response to the October 7th attacks, that they follow human rights obligations, which is to be proportionate, 
 
 which is act with precaution.
 
And of course, this is part of a growing number of voices, including the U.N. Secretary General, including the heads of many other U.N. bodies, 
 
 Martin Griffiths in charge of Humanitarian Affairs for the U.N., are using very strong, powerful and emotive language to say, don't do this to Israel, 
 
 hold back, don't go into Rafah where do things stand?
 
Not yet. But I think we, you know, we got a clue, really yesterday from the IDF Chief of Staff, General Herzi Halevi. When he said, look, we're four 
 
 months into this conflict, it's changing, but it's going to be long. And this was almost a sort of a four month update on where he saw the 
 
 situation.
 
And he said that a couple of times, he talked about the need for recruitment. And he talked about this being a long war. So he's really 
 
 readying his forces and the country for more to come.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, Nic, thank you very much, indeed. The U.N.'s Aid Chief says Israel's looming military operation in Rafah could lead to a 
 
 "slaughter", leaving humanitarian efforts, "at death's door", a growing number of countries international organizations, as Nic reported scrambling 
 
 to convince Israel not to launch a ground offensive in the city.
 
That is the threat though from the Israelis. Well, one of those is the World Health Organization I spoke exclusively with its Director General, 
 
 Dr. Tedros, who told me a military operation will not bring about a lasting solution. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TEDROS ADHANOM GHEBREYESUS, DIRECTOR-GENERAL AT WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION: I would go for a permanent ceasefire.
 
ANDERSON: But nobody's we're not getting that. I mean, everybody's echoing it. Many people are echoing it.
 
GHEBREYESUS: Yeah. But I would still go for that. Because this situation is really, really I said it earlier, hellish. And, as you know, more than 
 
 28,000 deaths now and more than 70 percent are women and children. That alone is enough to stop the war, because those who are dying are the wrong 
 
 people. And who haven't done anything to bring this problem. So the best solution for this is to find a political solution.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: The Chief of the W.H.O. and you can catch my full interview with the Director General next hour on "Connect the World". Well, Turkey's 
 
 President was here at the World Government Summit on Tuesday. In the past few hours Recep Tayyip Erdogan has arrived in Cairo for talks with Egypt's 
 
 President El-Sisi.
 
They'll be discussing efforts towards a ceasefire in Gaza and the delivery of humanitarian aid as well as relations between their two countries. Let 
 
 me be quite clear here. This is a landmark trip for Turkey's President who has not visited Egypt in 12 years. Here in Dubai, Mr. Erdogan reiterated 
 
 calls for the establishment of a Palestinian state based on the 1967 orders.
 
Well, so far, there's been no significant outcome from the negotiations in Cairo, the U.S. official tells CNN, the progress is being made this as a 
 
 Palestinian news agency says the President of the Palestinian Authority is calling on Hamas to quickly complete a deal. Nada Bashir has the very 
 
 latest from Cairo, Nada.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well Becky, according to U.S. official those talks about held yesterday in Cairo was difficult at times to be nudging 
 
 forward. But as you mentioned, no major breakthroughs have so far come from those discussions that would result in any sort of agreement. We know of 
 
 course, that the focus at this stage is on establishing a six week truce according to the -- with the discussion.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
It's during that truth that under the current framework of negotiation, we will potentially see an exchange of Israeli hostages held captive by Hamas 
 
 in Gaza for Palestinian prisoners. But according to another U.S. official Speaking to CNN yesterday, that is the major sticking point still the ratio 
 
 of Palestinian prisoners to Israeli hostages that would be exchanged under the terms of that truce agreement.
 
Now the hope is for many in the international community and of course, those key mediators involved including the country Prime Minister, the 
 
 Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, as well as the Mossad Chief and Egyptian intelligence officials, as well as of course, the CIA's Director.
 
The hope is that under the framework of this truce, there will be space room provided for further discussions on the diplomatic front of push 
 
 towards a lasting ceasefire agreement. Of course, a huge concern is providing some much needed respite for Gaza's civilians from this 
 
 relentless bombardment that we have seen.
 
But at this stage, no clear conclusions from those discussions and negotiations are still very much ongoing. Now, a Hamas official has told 
 
 CNN that if indeed there is marked progress in those discussions, they are prepared to send a delegation again, back to Cairo for further discussions.
 
We did hear late in the night yesterday from two Hamas officials telling CNN that they are not immediately planning to send a delegation back 
 
 perhaps a signal an indication of where we stand on those negotiations right now. But of course there is growing pressure from the international 
 
 community, not least from United States President Joe Biden for a deal to be struck.
 
We heard from Joe Biden earlier in the week say that he has kept close contact with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pushing for an 
 
 agreement to be reached. As you mentioned, we're hearing a similar message from the Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas urging Hamas to come 
 
 to some sort of agreement.
 
And of course, there is mounting concern over the situation in Rafah and if indeed we do see that ground operation as we as we discussed with Nic a 
 
 little earlier in Rafah, where more than a million civilians are now concentrated there are real fears a -- place those talks and negotiations 
 
 in jeopardy, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. Well, families of hostages held in Gaza and survivors of the October 7th terror attacks are at The Hague today to file 
 
 a complaint against Hamas at the International Criminal Court. Here they are earlier in Israel. They want the court to issue arrest warrants for 
 
 Hamas leaders as a pressure tactic to get them to release the hostages.
 
Jeremy Diamond is traveling with those families and he joins us now live from The Hague. Jeremy, what else have they been telling you? What's the -- 
 
 there's a clear message here and a clear aim? What's the atmosphere?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, on the one hand, these families are seeking accountability, accountability for their loved ones, 
 
 in some cases, accountability for themselves. There are two former hostages who traveled here as part of this delegation.
 
But beyond accountability, they are also of course, seeking another way to remind the world that it has now been 131 days since their loved ones were 
 
 taken hostage by Hamas during those October 7th terrorist attacks. And so today, these 100 representatives of hostage families have flown here today, 
 
 we flew on a plane with them El Al flight 131, representing the number of days they've spent in captivity.
 
And they are coming to The Hague, which is just behind me here to file a formal complaints urging the International Criminal Court and its top 
 
 prosecutor Karim Khan to charge Hamas leaders with war crimes with genocide and with crimes against humanity relying on a body of evidence and 
 
 testimony, including from some former hostages, talking about not only the kidnappings, but also the killings on October 7th, the sexual violence that 
 
 has been alleged to have been committed by Hamas.
 
And in speaking with several of these family members, obviously, there is just a sense of frustration, a sense of, you know, the difficulty of the 
 
 situation for them, as they see these negotiations going on, but certainly not moving a pace fast enough for someone who has been missing their loved 
 
 one for 131 days.
 
But they do hope that this message that this complaint sends a powerful message to the world about the need for Hamas's leaders to be held 
 
 accountable. They hope that beyond the complaint itself and the potential for charges, that it also leads to sanctions, perhaps against Hamas 
 
 leaders, but they are certainly sending a very powerful message to the world 131 days into this ordeal.
 
ANDERSON: And unlike the ICJ of course, which we are keeping a keen eye on, which needs some sort of collective action.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
The ICC has Interpol as a mechanism and enforcement mechanism of any decision that is made there. Thank you. We have been reporting on how the 
 
 spillover from the Gaza conflicts is creating worries about an escalation around the region. There is certainly tension.
 
The U.S. Navy has been maintaining a visible and active presence in the Red Sea as part of a coalition of countries helping protect international 
 
 shipping from the constant threat of missiles and drones being launched by the Iran backed Houthi rebels in Yemen.
 
CNN's Natasha Bertrand was on board a U.S. warship on the front lines of this operation, capturing how quickly the crews on the ships need to react 
 
 in order to successfully shoot down an incoming missile. Have a look at this.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: We were really on the front lines here of the U.S. Navy's fight against the Houthis who as 
 
 you know have been launching relentless missiles and drones out of Yemen targeting commercial ships in the Red Sea targeting U.S. and coalition 
 
 forces were also in the Red Sea to try to protect that shipping lane.
 
It's really hard to overstate just how intense and frenetic the pace is onboard the USS Eisenhower which is the aircraft carrier that is given the 
 
 flying jets over the skies at a constant rate up to 50 fighter jets per day taking off from this aircraft carrier to patrol the skies over the Red Sea 
 
 and of course to strike targets inside Yemen when necessary.
 
Now we also had the chance to go on board a U.S. destroyer called the USS gravely which has been again on the frontlines, kind of the tip of the 
 
 spear of the attacks against the Houthis intercepting missiles and drones on a regular basis as they are launched from inside Yemen. Here's just a 
 
 quick look at what the crew onboard this destroyer has to deal with when they detect a missile and respond.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: New track 80306 assesses anti-ship Cruise Missile inbounds gravely.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Killed track 80306 with missiles --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right --- co-track 80306 missile away 80306.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERTRAND: Now the radars on that warship, they can quickly detect an incoming missile and the crew onboard that ship. They really only have a 
 
 matter of seconds to respond by shooting a missile of their own. There's a very sophisticated set of missile systems on board the USS gravely but 
 
 sometimes those systems don't work.
 
And we actually saw one of the last lines of defense that the gravely was forced to use just a few weeks ago called the failing system. When the one 
 
 of the Houthi missiles that was coming inbound towards that very ship that destroyer managed to fall through some of the cracks ultimately they were 
 
 able to shoot it down but it was a very close call.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. Well, the U.S. leads coalition of countries of course protecting shipping a coalition that includes Bahrain as its only 
 
 Arab country involved. Well still to come on "Connect the World". Ukraine celebrating what maybe a naval victory against Russia a live report on that 
 
 ahead.
 
Plus, voting has ended in Indonesia's mega election -- three candidates vying to be its next President. We'll look at who appears to be leading, 
 
 that coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well Ukraine says it sang a Russian warship off the coast of Crimea during what was a drone attack earlier today. Kyiv claims it is now 
 
 disabled a third of Russia's Black Sea Fleet with this latest attack. Now CNN cannot confirm the authenticity of these images.
 
CNN's Melissa Bell tracking this, live from, Paris. Do we have any more detail at this point about this attack?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, what we've been hearing we've been hearing from the Ukrainian side the Kremlin's refuse to 
 
 comment on this, Becky, what we're talking about the Caesar Kunikov is a Russian landing ships are the kind of ship that allows our troops or 
 
 amphibious operations to be supported.
 
Also allows them to hold the kinds of missiles with which they would be launching attack towards Ukrainian soil, so an important tactical victory 
 
 for the Ukrainians. But I think what's important about it, Becky, is that beyond their claim that they've now taken out a third of Russia's once 
 
 formidable Black Sea Fleet is the way they went about it.
 
So these are highly maneuverable sea drones that are actually made by Ukrainians. And this is all part of their effort to try not only to get 
 
 their own weapons manufacturing up to speed while they wait for desperately needed Western supplies, of which they have repeatedly complained that not 
 
 enough have been arriving this now, for so much of the war.
 
It is the types of weapons that they've been manufacturing that they're seeking to ramp up their production of that's interesting. These are these 
 
 drones that really allow them to try and take on a much bigger and much more formidable enemy that has systematically been out manning and out 
 
 gunning them.
 
Over the course of the last couple of years, you're looking at these drones that have a range of some 800 kilometers, and that are essentially very 
 
 difficult for these ships, these warships to detect and prevent attacks by and that's what we saw overnight in the Black Sea.
 
It is a confirmation of the wisdom of their shift of strategy away from the much more static land frontlines and towards the Black Sea, as well, Becky. 
 
 We'd heard from the outgoing Commander in Chief in an Op-Ed on CNN just a few weeks ago saying that part of their plan was to shift the dynamics in 
 
 the Black Sea.
 
And if they can continue with these victories, and there is some suggestion that they're making progress there, where they failed to make -- elsewhere, 
 
 Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, Melissa, thank you. Indonesia's controversial Defense Minister claiming victory in the presidential election. There early 
 
 on official results show Prabowo Subianto winning nearly 60 percent of the vote for President and thus avoiding runoff official results aren't due 
 
 until March. Anna Coren joins us. She's in Hong Kong, monitoring this. Just what are the key issues in this election and just describe who these key 
 
 candidates are?
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So from this unofficial tally, quick count Becky, it shows that Former General Prabowo Subianto will be Indonesia's 
 
 next President. The results show that he won almost 60 percent of the vote, which as you say means there will be no runoff.
 
72 year old Prabowo was greeted to a rock star welcome by his supporters at a stadium in Jakarta, the Capital a short time ago, and he told the crowd 
 
 that there was a victory for all Indonesians that he will protect all Indonesians but that they must wait for the official results from the 
 
 Electoral Commission.
 
But look, there have been claims of mass vote rigging in the last couple of hours that's been made by the other presidential candidates. We heard from 
 
 the team of Ganjar Prabowo, the Former Governor of Central Java. They've said they've received reports of structural, systematic and massive fraud 
 
 and that they will be investigating.
 
But look Prabowo, he's a Former General under the Suharto dictatorship. He has been accused of committing human rights abuses. At one point he was 
 
 kicked out of the military. He was even disallowed from entering the United States or Australia. 
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
He ran in the past two elections, lost to President Joko Widodo, but falsely claimed in 2019 that the vote had been stolen from him. 
 
Prabowo has had this dramatic image makeover, thanks in part to a slick PR and social media campaign. But probably the most important factor to this 
 
 renewed public perception of him is this endorsement by the incredibly popular President Jokowi, whose eldest son 36-year-old Gibran Rakabuming 
 
 Raka use Prabowo's running mate. 
 
And he joined him on stage tonight, thanking the voters and thanking the young voters. Jokowi has a two term limit. And that's why he's not running 
 
 again. But look, you asked about the main issues of this election. It's the economy, jobs, education, and eradicating corruption. And look, half of 
 
 Indonesia's voters, Becky are under the age of 40. 
 
And look, conducting this election was a colossal and massive task. You know, Indonesia is Archipelago 17,000 islands, ballots had to get to 7000 
 
 of the inhabited islands. So it's a huge logistical challenge. But you know, this, this is Indonesia. And as we say, we won't have those official 
 
 results until next month. 
 
ANDERSON: And let's just be quite clear about this. This is the third largest democracy or sensibly democracy in the world. And one of the key 
 
 elections in what is this year of elections, depending on how you tally, there's some 60 countries with half the world's population able to vote 
 
 this year, this year of 2024, of course, the U.S. elections at the back end in November, but this is really significant stuff. Thank you for joining 
 
 us. 
 
A real sense of the enormity of this and what are the key candidates and issues effecting and being affecting Indonesians and being voted on at this 
 
 point. Well, government officials calling a pipeline explosion in southwestern Iran a terrorist act. State-run media say a blast had a 
 
 natural gas pipeline in a province that is about a seven hour drive from the capital of Tehran. 
 
There are no reports of casualties. And Iran hasn't provided evidence to back up its claim of terrorism. And CNN has, as you would expect us to 
 
 reach out to the Iranian government for comment. This all comes as tensions as we've been reporting remain extremely high in this region of the Middle 
 
 East. 
 
Well, the U.S. House votes to impeach the Homeland Security Secretary coming up what motivated this dramatic move and what happens next in the 
 
 Senate. And the AI Company shrouded in secrecy, my conversation with the CEO of Palantir is up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson for you tonight in Dubai. U.S. President Joe Biden has slammed House Republicans for voting to impeach his 
 
 Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. Republicans say they did it because of the way he has handled the migrant crisis at the U.S. Mexico 
 
 border. 
 
Mr. Biden calls this vote a blatant act of unconstitutional partisanship and called on Congress to pass legislation to actually address the 
 
 situation at the border. Let's go to CNN Politics Correspondent Eva McKend is on Capitol Hill. This was the second attempt to impeach Mayorkas. And 
 
 our viewers would be forgiven for thinking this is sort of you know, this had failed ultimately, but it's back again how the Senate in the end going 
 
 to handle this. 
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Becky Republicans were successful in this effort in this impeachment effort just 
 
 now only. And it's important to remember that there's no material impact here, Secretary Mayorkas, he continues on the job. This is a non-binding 
 
 resolution. To give you a sense of how partisan this affair was, Congressman Steve Scalise, he's a prominent congressman here in leadership 
 
 in the U.S.; he was seeking cancer treatment in Louisiana. 
 
He flew back yesterday and it was his vote. That was the critical vote for Republicans to achieve this. But there were a few Republicans who were 
 
 against this, Congressman Gallagher, Congressman Buck, Congressman McClintock. And they argue that essentially, you don't impeach someone over 
 
 a policy dispute that something that you traditionally think of when you think of impeachment, like corruption or misusing public funds, that that 
 
 is not what is going on here, even though that they two have disagreements with Secretary Mayorkas on the border.
 
So now what's next? The Senate does have to take this up. But it is led by Democrats. This is divided government up here and they could dismiss this 
 
 on a simple majority vote even before each side has the opportunity to argue its case. So for anything, it is a stain on Mayorkas, but it doesn't 
 
 have any actual weight or actual impact, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Fascinating. Thank you. Well, you join us here in Dubai. We are at the World Government Summit, where we have been focused on how companies 
 
 that operate artificial intelligence will run alongside democracy and human values, a huge talk -- here. This is a country that has AI really running 
 
 through its DNA these days.
 
Few companies have tracked the past like Palantir, which employs its technology to solve problems, national security and on the battlefield. To 
 
 name a few, it was founded 20 years ago by Alex Karp and Peter Thiel by 2019. Government contracts accounted for more than 50 percent of the 
 
 company's business. Much of his work is shrouded in secrecy due to those sensitive government contracts. I had the chance to ask CEO Alex Karp about 
 
 when in his mind, AI really arrived?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEX KARP, CEO, PALANTIR: Well, there was a program in America; it's all public Project Maven. And really, of course, Silicon Valley had no interest 
 
 in defending its own culture. And so we ended up heavily involved. And in the beginning, I only -- we were only involved because I figured it's 
 
 either us or somebody who is just going to take the money and burn it. And I didn't want that. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
So those -- the military uses of what we call AI which in this case would mean finding things that are not identifiable by humans in a timeframe that 
 
 is 100 to 1,000x, faster than a human could do, began bearing fruits about three years ago. There are a lot of counterintuitive things about this 
 
 revolution. But one of - in fact, it's almost all counterintuitive, which is why it's so confusing for most people. 
 
So, but one of them is the starting point of it is not the starting point people realize. And then on the winners, the losers, there, it's just very 
 
 different than any other revolution. And, and that's why it has to be approached in a way that is with fresh eyes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: What's clear is that there are going to be what is the losers, right? Not everybody will benefit from AI. Here is what he had to say about 
 
 who will emerge on top. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARP: In America, we have the problem that this is a revolution that will raise GDP, but at the same time, the relative delta between the poor and 
 
 the rich is going to get even greater. So that's something no one wants to talk about. Then you have the problem say in continental Europe, where 
 
 you're, you're basically pretending the revolution isn't happening, because it's -- the providers aren't from there. 
 
And then you have a culture like this one, where you have a small number of people, it's much easier to who are very technical. And then the whole 
 
 issue of this isn't going to really help everyone as much as it will help a small group of people. That's not a problem. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: By this one, he meant the Emirates, well, of course, not every country is going to be able to access this technology in the same way. And 
 
 that is going to be difficult for many people to accept. Here's what he had to say about that inequality. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARP: I'm interested in people that are aligned with America and people who run just in wonderful societies with. So there's the balance side of it. 
 
 That's what we're taught to believe. I'm not interested in balance; I'm interested in winners, the winners winning. 
 
And then there's the equity side of it is like how do you deal with it in America, the obvious reality that while GDP will grow. The people who are 
 
 in this business are going to be ten or hundred times wealthier, and that's very hard to explain to a society. 
 
ANDERSON: Widening gap is fueling mistrust. And there are of course, growing concerns about AI's role in the disruption that we see around the 
 
 world. False and misleading information, fueled by AI was at the top of the global risks report released by Davos or the World Economic Forum in Davos 
 
 last month. 
 
KARP: It's a problem, but the primary problem is not disinformation, which I'm against and I would help fight. But the primary problem is that the 
 
 people listen to it because primary functions of their government aren't working. And they're asking themselves, why doesn't it work? And so, you 
 
 have to fix those underlying functions pretending that is the primary risk democracy is a, is totally a backfire move. 
 
But the primary risk to society is not fake information. It's a society that's willing to believe the fake information, because they're wondering 
 
 why doesn't my school work? Why doesn't my border work? It's like that, that is the primary risk to a society. And all this other stuff is just a 
 
 way of saying, I cannot deal with the primary problems, I can deal with the secondary problems and it won't work. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: The views of Palantir CEO Alex Karp, clearly there are major disruptive forces at play in our increasingly AI driven world. Alex Karp is 
 
 one of those leading the pioneering technologies, so it is worth listening to his views. Well, coming up, it will be a cold night in Rome, but our hot 
 
 encounter in the Champions League is Bayern Munich take on Lazio, details after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, it's going to be a night of ambition and fun tonight as Bayern Munich stepped on to the Rome, tough as it were in the Champions 
 
 League. The Bavarian team has been -- it's been out of sorts recently. So their game against Lazio might just be what the doctor ordered. 
 
And certainly what Harry Kane is hoping for, because he's opening that is moved to Bayern, of course. Patrick Snell, who is joining me now will 
 
 ultimately getting some silverware at the end of the year. What's going on with Bayern, Snell? 
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yeah, Becky you're absolutely right. I mean, that's why he made the move right away from the English Premier 
 
 League to try and win that elusive first piece of major silverware. Look, Bayern have won the Bundesliga for the last 11 straight seasons. So he must 
 
 have high hopes. 
 
But I tell you what? They're coming off an awful three nil defeat to Leverkusen this past weekend. They've got to get it right in the eternal 
 
 city. They are sixth time champions of Europe, always massive scrutiny Becky on FC Bayern when they play, back to you. 
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, looking forward to it. "World Sports" up after this short break, we're back top of the hour for you. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END