Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: President Biden Exits Race, Put Full Support Behind VP Kamala Harris; Interview With Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX); Interview With Governor Jared Polis (D-CO); Trump Team Began Exploring Other Dem Candidates After Debate; Interview With Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN); Interview With Mayor Eric Adams (D-NY). Aired 6-7p ET

Aired July 21, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:36]
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News. 
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN ANCHOR: Breaking news, and it is historic. President Joe Biden dropping out of the 2024 presidential race tonight, endorsing his vice president, Kamala Harris, to replace him on the ticket. 
 
Good evening to all. I'm Erin Burnett. 
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington. 
 
Three weeks after his poor debate showing today, President Biden finally gave in to the growing calls for him to step aside. And in a statement, the president of the United States writing this, "My fellow Democrats, I have decided not to accept the nomination and to focus all my energies on my duties as president for the remainder of my term. My very first decision as the party nominee in 2020 was to pick Kamala Harris as my vice president. And it's been the best decision I've made. 
 
"Today I want to offer my full support and endorsement for Kamala to be the nominee of our party this year. Democrats, it's time to come together and beat Trump. Let's do it," close quote -- Erin. 
 
BURNETT: You know, and Wolf, you know, here it is, the Biden for President Campaign Committee, they have now officially filed the paperwork. So here it is. This is the FEC filing, with the Federal Election Commission and it renames itself right here on the top line, "Harris for President." 
 
It's just a stunning thing. Three weeks and the drip by drip and maybe for some it's final and yet you take a pause and what an incredible moment in history we are in. We are now learning that Biden's closest advisers and family were only told of Biden's decision to step down last night, some finding out literally staff a minute before if even that before the announcement went out. Harris wasn't given a heads up until today. 
 
And in a statement today, Wolf, of course, Harris says, "I am honored to have the president's endorsement and my intention is to earn and win this nomination." Very important that she used both those words, earn and win, Wolf. We're learning Harris is already making calls to Democratic lawmakers to get a direct appeal, also for donations, and she said, I will do everything in my power to unite the Democratic Party and unite our nation to defeat Donald Trump and his extreme Project 2025 agenda. If you're with me add a donation right now. 
 
And what we have seen so far, of course, in terms of endorsements, a flood of Democrats resting to endorse them. The nomination, though, not a done deal because several top Democrats, including foreign president Barack Obama had left it unclear where they stand, Wolf, with Harris at the top of the ticket. 
 
BLITZER: Yes, lots of questions that need still to be answered and I want to get to a lot of that, Erin, right now. We have a team of reporters standing by with breaking details inside Biden's thinking, what is next for Harris, and is the Democratic Party more fractured than ever? The country now in unchartered territory. 
 
I want to start with MJ Lee over at the White House for us. 
 
MJ, up until yesterday, and maybe even this morning, he seemed to be dug in. So what changed? 
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, clearly, Wolf, President Biden came to accept and see that there was no political path forward for him. He knew that the money was drying up. He knew that the support within his own party was eroding. He knew he was slipping in the polls. 
 
In this letter that was addressed to the American people, he said he fully intended to seek a second term, but he said, I believe it is in the best interests of my party and the country for me to stand down and to focus solely on fulfilling my duties as president for the remainder of my term. And moments later, he would endorse his vice president, Kamala Harris. 
 
We are learning new details about how and when the president actually came to this decision that was such a shock to so many people. He of course had been isolating in Rehoboth Beach after being diagnosed with COVID and it was Saturday night we are told that the president began to come to a decision and set in motion the process to unveil that decision today, notably with his closest aides, Mike Donilon and Steve Ricchetti, by his side. 
 
But this, Wolf, was such a closely held decision that even the senior most aides around him did not know until moments before that letter went out to public, and Vice President Kamala Harris actually did not know until today. Of course, the two have spoken and we are told that they actually have spoken multiple times throughout the course of the day but this has been a huge shock, of course, to a lot of voters who have been tuning into the news, but for White House and campaign staff inside those operations as well. 
 
You know, the mandate for them until today had really been to continue fighting for the president's reelection efforts. And now we are being told that the mandate for them is to remember that the Biden-Harris team is really one team and that their new mission really focuses on making sure that Kamala Harris can get elected. 
 <br>[18:05:11]
 
But just goes to, you know, worth emphasizing the next few weeks are going to be incredibly tumultuous. The DNC, remember, begins on August 19th. Virtual voting was supposed to begin in early August and it's unclear how much and how quickly the party is going to be willing to coalesce around Vice President Kamala Harris, even though she is certainly the person that he would like to pass the torch on to -- Wolf. 
 
BLITZER: MJ, thank you very much. 
 
Erin, back to you. 
 
BURNETT: All right, Wolf, so now let's get straight to Manu Raju, who's been talking to so many sources on Capitol Hill where, Manu, we started to see sort of a, definitely a flood of endorsements coming behind Harris. But we'll see where this goes. Obviously, President Biden throwing his support behind his VP. 
 
Do you think that this is going to become just a, you know, a tsunami of Democrats endorsing her? 
 
MANU RAJU, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it is headed in that direction even though a lot of Democrats still have not made their preference known, including the top Democratic leaders. We have not heard any explicit endorsement from Hakeem Jeffries, the Democratic leader who connected with Joe Biden today, after Biden put out that statement. Very much but the blindsiding the Democratic leadership. 
 
We have not heard from Chuck Schumer about an endorsement of Kamala Harris. And we have now heard from Nancy Pelosi, who we know the former speaker behind the scenes had raised concerns about the prospects of Joe Biden continuing on in this -- in his candidacy. 
 
The concern among Democrats about if Biden continued was that he ultimately would have sunk many of their chances at keeping control of the House, who they -- keeping control of the Senate and taking back the House. That was the fear about Biden, about his impact down ticket. Now they are assessing the impact that Kamala Harris could have down ticket as well. And that is still an open question that a lot of Democrats I've spoke to this afternoon have, whether or not she would help Democrats. 
 
Some believe that she would help energize a base where they've seen the enthusiasm gap really be profound when compared to Donald Trump. And the enthusiasm he is getting from the right-wing. They wonder whether or not Kamala Harris could put some of the more vulnerable Democrats in a tough, difficult spot given her support, some for more progressive policies or alignment with Joe Biden, and how Republicans plan to tie her to all the concerns that they have raised about Joe Biden, as well as his cognitive ability and all the rest. 
 
Will that trickle down, down-ticket to some Democrats, some in some key races like Sherrod Brown of Ohio who had pushed for Joe Biden to step aside, yet to support Kamala Harris at this moment? So it remains to be seen how quickly the rest of the party gets behind Kamala Harris. But the moment we are hearing from a lot of Democrats who are simply relieved, Wolf, that this episode about Joe Biden being at the top of the ticket is behind them as they grapple with this next chapter in this historic ride -- Wolf. 
 
BLITZER: All right, interesting. Manu, thank you very, very much. 
 
I want to bring in Jeff Zeleny right now. 
 
Jeff, an urgent effort clearly is underway right now across the Democratic Party to rally behind Vice President Kamala Harris. So what are you hearing? 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, it absolutely is. Really minute by minute telephone calls are being made from the vice president to lawmakers and other officials trying to secure their support for the nomination. We've really seen just a dramatic movement here in the last several hours. 
 
Let's look at the Clintons, for example. Both former president Bill Clinton and secretary of state Hillary Clinton praised Joe Biden but in the same statement, just a little earlier today, they also said they fully support Kamala Harris. Barack Obama has taken a different approach to this. He put out a statement earlier saying that he of course praises Joe Biden and that's what the statement was about, really talking about his effort to get out of the race and his selfless act, but also leaving open the question of who he would support. 
 
Talking to his advisers I am told that he is staying out of this for now and wants to play a unifying role at the end of this, much like he did in the 2020 primary campaign. That's been criticized by some, but this is the approach he has taken. And also Manu was reporting former speaker Nancy Pelosi, she also has not weighed in. 
 
So, look, this process is moving, but there is no doubt no one has stepped up to run against her and that is also significant several hours into this now. But going forward in the next coming hours and coming days the delegates here, the 4700 Democratic delegates, who will ultimately make this decision, they are Biden-Harris delegates. So the Harris campaign is moving forward. At the Wilmington headquarters they are already transitioning to the Harris campaign. So if anyone would get in, she has a dramatic head start here. 
 
But as of now, Wolf, it is very noticeable on this Sunday evening, Erin, that no one has stepped forward to challenge her and the party is coalescing around her. Why? Because they want to get on with going after Donald Trump -- Erin. 
 <br>[18:10:02]
 
BURNETT: All right. Jeff Zeleny, thank you very much. 
 
And everyone here with me now. Abby, I know, you know, to this point about this urgent effort to get
 
 everyone behind her and quickly in the Democratic Party, for those who support. You have some new reporting on what Kamala Harris herself is doing. 
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, time is of the essence and I'm told that she's been obviously calling around all day today. She has a list that is some 200 people long to call today. Members of Congress, governors, senators, Democratic organizations, donors. And the idea here is to really hit the ground running, get these people on board, get people off the sidelines. 
 
This is something that is really about a day or two. Of course that's what a lot of people around her believed that she has to make it very clear to the party writ large. She has this under control because that shows political strength is going to be critically important. One of the things that people close to her are aware can weaken her is this perception that maybe people really don't believe that she can win. Maybe people really don't believe that she's strong enough politically. 
 
Now is the time for her to show that and every single moment that goes by, they're looking for those statements, people coming out offering support. I know we're waiting for Democratic leadership, but David and I were talking earlier. I mean, these are, you know, Pelosi, Hakeem Jeffries and Schumer, they have to listen to their members. OK? They have to do a lot of listening today, too, before they come out and put a stake in the ground. And so this next day or two, everyone understands are going to be really critical. 
 
BURNETT: And yet, you know, David, in this moment, you know, talking to donors, I know Abby has, Van has, all been talking, you know, they got what they wanted today. I was talking to one big donor, you know, you'd think there'll be a sense of celebration. They've been pounding the table, holding their money back, and yet one of them said to me, I'm sick to my stomach. 
 
DAVID AXELROD, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes. 
 
BURTNETT: Because I have sadness for a guy who can't fulfill what he wanted. 
 
PHILLIP: Yes. 
 
BURNETT: There is this deep sort of sadness or something. 
 
AXELROD: Listen, Erin, there is a lot of affection and respect for Joe Biden among Democrats. I don't think anybody took great joy in what happened today. I, you know, I worked with him for several years and was really proud to do that. And it's a sad day. This wasn't an anti- Biden movement. It was a beat Trump movement and there was a conclusion that they didn't feel the president could do that. 
 
It wasn't a reflection on what he's already done. So yes, it was rough, but in terms of what's going on now, you know, you say, why are these leaders hanging back. And Abby's right, the leaders have to listen to their members. The members, they're most interested in listening to are the members who were in these competitive districts competitive states, and they want to hear from them and they want to examine, how are you going to be affected by that? 
 
And for Pelosi, that is obviously a concern, but she's very much focused on what gives us the best chance to beat Donald Trump. 
 
BURNETT: That's the thing, talking to donors today, and I talked to a few of them, these are people who didn't actually a couple of weeks ago want Kamala Harris on the ticket when they were talking about this. They seem to have all at least the ones I spoke to fully accepted its Kamala Harris and they're now all in. 
 
VAN JONES, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think people had to walk around the barn a couple of times and get their heads around it. Kamala Harris has not been a pulling dynamo. It's not like she's the most popular, you know, human ever born and that weighs on people. 
 
Look, I want to say something. This is the most consequential decision this party is likely to make in this century. Who do we put up against Donald Trump? It's not an emotional decision. It's a mathematical decision. And nobody understands necessarily, as we said before, there's a lot of variables here. Something swing state governors haven't been tested on national stage. What's the likelihood of a skeleton falling out and destroy the whole campaign? 
 
This is a consequential decision. 
 
BURNETT: Right. 
 
JONES: And so right now you go a lot of people rushing in, wanting to support Kamala. They're rushing to certainty. But tomorrow always comes. And what you don't -- what I love about what Obama did. He stayed back. He said let's talk it out. Give everybody a chance to make their best-case. So we can make the best decision. And there's not a more important -- whenever Pelosi opens her mouth next is going to be a moment in history. 
 
If Obama says I'm in with Kamala, it's a moment in history. And so right now, we're all emotional. My eyes were all red. I'm glad that we have some leaders that are holding back and giving this party a chance to make a considered decision for the most important race in a century. 
 
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Speaking of leaders who are not holding back, the former president put out a Truth Social saying, now we have to start all over again. There is a reality, Donald Trump wanted to be running against Joe Biden, especially since the debate implosion. They had started their campaign thinking actually Kamala Harris was much better to attack. They used this line of you're actually voting for Kamala Harris. 
 
But I think that they realized if the Democrats put forward another generation of leadership, that that is going to activate voters who were inclined to stay home. The youth vote is going to be essential. It could decide this election. A younger candidate, whether it's Kamala Harris or someone else, could turn the tide of this. So I think that today, you know, the team down in Palm Beach is really nervous. 
 
They've modeled this all around Joe Biden and Kamala Harris introduces incredible unknowns or whoever it may end up being. 
 
AXELROD: Yes. Absolutely. 
 <br>[18:15:05]
 
PHILLIP: And I have to say it, Thursday night's speech of Donald Trump's at the convention was really a moment for Democrats where they realized Donald Trump hasn't changed one iota and what was challenging for President Biden I think a lot of Democrats believe he has a great record. They believe that he has been a great president, that he has the right morals and the values. But increasingly did not believe that he could actually take the case to Trump, and that in the absence of being able to do that, when the case is easy to make in their view that was a real problem for them. So now they're in a completely different situation. 
 
I was watching Vice President Harris last week and I covered her in 2020. Seeing her today in 2024 she has loosened up on the trail. She was demonstrating I think to all the world watching because everybody -- she knows everybody is watching. She was demonstrating to the world watching that she was willing to kind of take Trump on where Trump is on this very kind of bottom floor level, not necessarily high level stuff, but saying basically who does this guy think he is? 
 
And if she's able to do that, I think you'll start to see a lot of Democrats looking at her differently than they had in the past. 
 
AXELROD: That's what she's going to find. And I think the fact that she is battle tested is really, really important here, which she's going to find is what everybody does. When you get to that top rung, it's a whole different ballgame. 
 
PHILLIP: Absolutely a lot more arrows. 
 
BURNETT: Former congressman Steve Israel joins us as well, and I just want to ask you, Congressman, as we talk about, you know, Vance talking about the math, that it has to come down to the math. You know, yes, of course, you want to see who's going to win. You do have a sitting vice president who, if she wins will be the first woman -- first female and of course first black female president. 
 
So anyone who's going to go up against that has to realize that. But in a brand new CBS poll just out yesterday, Congressmen, Trump had a five-point lead over Biden, three-point lead over Harris. OK. Still outside the margin of error. And I understand two points in U.S. politics is a chasm, OK? However, what does that to you just make this very obvious or not? 
 
STEVE ISRAEL (D), FORMER U.S. REPRESENTATIVE: Well, first of all, polling is a snapshot. And the snapshot yesterday is completely, radically different than the snapshot today. 
 
Look, whatever happened on a given day the course is clear, the path is clear for Democrats. We must win Michigan, we must win Wisconsin, we must win Pennsylvania. And by the way, we must win one congressional district, Omaha, too, because it splits its electoral votes, that will determine its electoral votes and decide the presidency. And so we now have a fundamental reset of this campaign. No question about it. 
 
Now I'll just say one other thing on this. The (INAUDIBLE) today is because Donald Trump has consolidated his vote. His base is maxed out and we Democrats have not consolidated. Why? Because up until several hours ago, we weren't sure who was running at the top of the ticket. It is vitally important with this reset that we do the following. Job one, consolidate our base. Job two, fashion a ticket that will win those battleground states. And job three, fashion a ticket that will boost our down-ballot candidates, congressional Senate candidates, in those competitive districts. 
 
I don't think we can wait much before we come up with a consensus candidate (INAUDIBLE) the ticket. 
 
BURNETT: Yes. All right, well, of course you're going to be with us throughout the evening, Congressman, along with our panel. Wolf? 
 
BLITZER: Erin, thank you. 
 
Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett was the first Democratic lawmaker to actually call on President Biden to step aside. Congressman Doggett is here with me in the studio right now. 
 
Thanks very much for coming in. 
 
REP. LLOYD DOGGETT (D-TX): Great to be with you, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER: You've become a historic figure and you're the first one, first Democrats say Biden should step aside. 
 
DOGGETT: Well, it is a historic day and President Biden made a courageous decision that Donald Trump could never make. And that is to put country over ego. And as a result of his decision, we have a much better opportunity to prevent Donald Trump and his gang from taking over our government and maybe never giving it back. 
 
BLITZER: So you were pleased he stepped aside today? 
 
DOGGETT: I was pleased, but I recognize just like a decision President Johnson had to make decades ago under different circumstances what a painful and difficult decision this was. And so I respect him and his decision-making process. I'm just pleased that we can now get on with it and have a better opportunity to prevent Trump and his gang from taking over our government. 
 
BLITZER: Are you ready to endorse Kamala Harris as the Democratic nominee? 
 
DOGGETT: Not yet. 
 
BLITZER: Why not? DOGGETT: I think she would be an excellent nominee for us. But from
 
 the very moment that I asked President Biden to step aside almost three weeks ago, I made the point that we need a fair, open, and Democratic process and we still need that. I think that's basically what President Obama, what earlier Speaker Pelosi were calling for. 
 <br>[18:20:04]
 
No disrespect to Vice President Harris, but this doesn't have to be decided within minutes or hours of President Biden's decision. We need to engage the whole country. We need to be hearing from voters across the country. And this shouldn't be strictly of Washington inside deal. 
 
BLITZER: So describe the process you want to see unfold now. 
 
DOGGETT: Well, ultimately, I want the convention to decide this. It may be a little messy, it may be a little disorganized, a little uncertainty, but it is democratic process with a small D. That's what we need. To engage the country and I'd like to see some town halls or some other ways that Vice President Harris, anyone else who might want to challenge her, are out there presenting themselves to the American people. 
 
BLITZER: So you want to see an election at the Democratic convention in Chicago in about three weeks. You want to see the thousands of delegates who show up there, and you're a superdelegate as a member of Congress. 
 
DOGGETT: Right. 
 
BLITZER: You want to see who they vote for? 
 
DOGGETT: I'll be there with several hundred Texans and several thousand Democrats from across the country. That is where the decision has to be made. The idea that this can be some virtual advanced thing and done in that way I think would not be what we need. 
 
American people need to see us with all of our shortcomings and strengths and recognize that we want to provide a candidate for a new generation who will protect women's health care, do something about the climate crisis, and not engage in the kind of authoritarianism that Donald Trump seems to admire. 
 
BLITZER: Have you heard of any other Democrat at least so far, it's only been a few hours since President Biden decided to step aside, who's ready to challenge Kamala Harris for the nomination? 
 
DOGGETT: I'm not sure there will be anyone, but we need more than a few hours to decide and it's only natural that she'd be making all those phones on calls and doing everything she can to lock up this nomination. It's probably hers, but let's be sure that we have evaluated every aspect and given anyone who thinks they would be strongest to defeat Donald Trump, an opportunity to be in on this. 
 
BLITZER: Let's see what happens in Chicago. 
 
DOGGETT: Sure. 
 
BLITZER: You'll be there. 
 
DOGGETT: See you there. 
 
BLITZER: We'll all watch it very closely. 
 
DOGGETT: Thank you. 
 
BLITZER: Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas. Thanks very much for coming in. 
 
We're following the major breaking news right now including this, the Pennsylvania governor Josh Shapiro just endorsing Vice President Kamala Harris, an important endorsement indeed. Pennsylvania, a key battleground state because he is not running -- he is potentially, I should say, potentially a running mate for Kamala Harris as well should she become the presidential nominee. 
 
Plus, we'll talk to Colorado Governor Jared Polis. What is his reaction tonight to President Biden deciding to drop out? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:27:25]
 
BLITZER: Breaking news, the Pennsylvania governor Josh Shapiro just endorsing Vice President Harris for president. Shapiro, of course, is the governor of a crucial battleground state, and a possible VP contender for Harris. 
 
Priscilla Alvarez is in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, for us where -- that's where President Biden has been recovering from COVID. 
 
Priscilla, you're learning more about what Vice President Harris has been up to since receiving President Biden's endorsement. What can you tell us? 
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, sources telling me that the vice president has been working the phones. She has been talking to governors, lawmakers and civil rights leaders. To give you a preview as to what the content of some of those calls are, I spoke to one source who confirmed that she had spoken to Congressional Hispanic chair Nanette Barragan. 
 
In that call, the vice president telling her that she wanted to earn the nomination and was asking for support. The CHC chair telling her in that call that she had it and she was 100 percent behind her. So that is how some of these calls are going. It is the vice president asking for support amid this stunning news that President Biden is not seeking reelection. 
 
Now, we've also learned from sources that the vice president didn't learn of this decision until today. Her and President Biden have spoken multiple times over the course of the day and really, Wolf, leading up to this moment, the vice president had been fiercely behind President Biden defending him on the campaign trail. And so recently as this Friday and Saturday in front of donors. 
 
Just yesterday, she was on the campaign trail for a fundraiser in Massachusetts where she raised over $2 million. Today, she is taking care of all of these calls from Washington, D.C. Now, I'm also told by sources that in the moments after the president announced he wasn't seeking reelection, donors were also working the phones calling advisers saying that they were ready to pour in more money, including some of those that had privately shared with the Harris team that they would support her as the lead of the party's ticket. 
 
And so that had been an area that had been a challenge which for the Biden campaign. But of course, all of this unfolding, the vice president making calls as we speak and doing so for the rest of the evening -- Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Priscilla, thank you very much. 
 
As all of this is happening, let's bring in Kristen Holmes. 
 
And Kristen, you know, you've been reporting on the Trump campaign and that they began exploring the possibility that they could be running against someone other than Biden immediately after the debate. So now here we are three weeks later, that's what they're looking at. What are you learning about their reaction to this and what they're going to do about it today? 
 <br>[18:30:05]
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Erin, I do want to be clear. I mean, immediately after the debate the Trump team really wasn't actually sure how bad it was for President Joe Biden. They didn't realize that they might be running against someone else until Monday when they started seeing this really spiral for Joe Biden for the Democrats. And that's really where they've been is watching this process unfold. 
 
But in recent weeks, we are told that they put together opposition research books on a variety of potential different candidate and includes Democratic lawmakers, that includes Democratic governors from battleground states, much of whom we have spoken about. 
 
BURNETT: Yes. 
 
HOLMES: But also their big focus has been on vice presidential -- on the Vice President Kamala Harris, and that's because they believe that at the end of the day she's going to end up at the top of the ticket. 
 
Now, they still have important the same amount of resources in terms of research, data modeling into Harris because they just aren't 100 percent. They're not going to change their entire campaign strategy and apparatus until they know for sure she's at the top of the ticket, but they are not wasting any time in going after Harris. They are putting out attack ads right now. It's going to be both the campaign that's going to come out later and right now that super PAC, MAGA, Inc. is already putting those out. They are essentially trying to redefine Kamala Harris because all of
 
 the polling that they have seen shows that while Kamala Harris does have the best name identification among all of these potential candidates for president on the Democratic side, there's not a lot of what they call name education, which they believe means that there is an opening for them to essentially cast her in a negative light. 
 
So while they are waiting to see and make sure that she's at the top of the ticket, you are going to see pretty vicious attacks going after her in that interim period while they try to figure this out. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Kristen, thank you very much. 
 
And joining me now is the Democratic governor of Colorado, Jared Polis. 
 
And Governor, I really appreciate your time. You and I briefly spoke in the commercial break before this. I said you weren't expecting perhaps to be on CNN so soon because you were on this morning and this morning you warned Democrats had to make a change. They had to make a change in order to win. Is this that change? 
 
GOV. JARED POLIS (D), COLORADO: I think this is the change that we need. I think this is a forward-looking opportunity to talk about the future of our country. We now have a great way to contrast between people want to turn the door on the politics of the past. Trump is almost 80 years old. We have the vigor and we have the energy on our side. And I couldn't be more excited. 
 
BURNETT: So just to be clear, do you then endorse Kamala Harris as the presidential nominee for the Democratic Party? 
 
POLIS: Right here on your show I'm officially announcing I'm endorsing Kamala Harris. Let me tell you a little story about some time I spent with her a few weeks ago. When I saw her a few weeks ago, this was before the debate but a few weeks before, she handed me a speech that she had given in Europe and it was a speech about the role and international security. One of the important pieces in this election. 
 
When I saw her a week later, she said, have you read it, and I was able to have a good discussion. I like a vice president and a president that gives me homework. That's what Kamala Harris is. She's smart, she's on top of it. There's a forward-looking vision to save people money. She's put prisoners and criminals behind bars, and she's ready to lead the country. 
 
BURNETT: So, you know, let me ask you because Lloyd Doggett was just on a moment ago and of course he has -- you know, he wants an open process here and he was the first to call for Biden to step aside. Axios Denver ran a headline this afternoon, Governor, that you may or may not have seen, but it says Biden's exit door opens the door for the Colorado Governor Jared Polis to enter the race. 
 
I mean, obviously you've answered this question by endorsing Kamala Harris, but let me just ask you directly. Is there any chance if more and more people or Barack Obama who has not yet endorsed push for an open -- sort of a process of some sort that you would put your hat in the ring? 
 
POLIS: No. Look, there could very well be some kind of process. There should be. People can run, right? This is with the delegates. I personally am backing Kamala Harris. I think she's ready day one. She's the vice president. She's ready to take on the responsibility of leadership. She has the energy. She's the vision of Colorado's future. 
 
Let me say something else as the father of a 10-year-old girl. I couldn't be more excited to have the opportunity to elect a woman as president of the United States. 
 
BURNETT: So, Governor, let me ask you about this open process because President Obama, as I mentioned, when he came out, you know, with a statement, right, and it was a thoughtful statement about President Biden, he did not actually back Kamala Harris. Doesn't mean that he won't, right? He didn't go against. He you just didn't actually formally back her yet and in part Governor, he writes, "We will be navigating unchartered waters in the days ahead, but I have extraordinary confidence that the leaders of our party will be able to create a process from which an outstanding nominee emerges." 
 
You know, I guess, Governor, you know, I understand where you stand. Everyone understands where you stand now, but is there any way to have any kind of a truly Democratic or open process in your party at this point, given the time, just actual time value of money here that you only have days or a few weeks? 
 
POLIS: Well, sure. I think there will be a process. I think other people will run. There might even already be people running. I personally am backing Kamala Harris, she's the best candidate for our future to save people money with a forward-looking vision for our country. 
 <br>[18:35:01]
 
What a contrast with Trump's regressive tariff policies that would cost American families $2,000 to $3,000. The instability he would create in the world, not to mention that he lacks the moral fiber to lead our nation. So I'm excited, of course other Democrats will support other great candidates. But you know what, whoever we nominate, and I hope it's Kamala Harris, we're going to come out in strong support to make sure we win the election this November. 
 
There isn't -- there's never been more energy on the Democratic side, and I know that's going to carry over to the undecided voters. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Governor Polis, I appreciate your time. Thank you very much. 
 
So, Wolf, he's endorsing Kamala Harris, categorically not going to run. Interesting, though, he thinks that there may be others who will perhaps throw their hat in the ring on the Democratic side before this is over. 
 
BLITZER: So far no one has thrown their hat in the ring other than Kamala Harris. We'll see what happens. You're absolutely right. Dramatic developments potentially could still unfold. 
 
Our political experts, Erin, are with us right now to discuss all of these very fast-moving developments. And David Chalian, our political director, is here. 
 
As of Friday night, correct me if I'm wrong, the president was still insisting he was in this race. He was going to be running. He's in it to win it. But 24 hours later, we're learning that he was actually thinking of starting to draft a statement withdrawing from the race. So what happened? 
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Well, he was being presented with all the information collection that went on. So while he was no doubt, you are correct, Wolf, saying that he was going to remain in this, that he was the candidate. You heard his staff always talking in the very present tense. He is the nominee but we know that they were doing an incredible amount of data collection, polling information from the field about targets for voters and the like. 
 
All of that was coming in. And what the assessment was being done was whether or not there was going to be a viable path to victory, or if that had been now closed. And it was a matter of Joe Biden with his closest, closest confidantes, his family members, his wife, his top inner circle of advisers, assessing all that information that could put in and presenting that to him for him to consider. 
 
So even while he was saying that, you know, you heard Chris Coons, somebody who knows the president really well, saying he was in a reflective mood once he was back in Rehoboth. Well, that was a clear signal that we heard that the president, while saying he was going to remain the nominee, had shifted and was in a new environment, obviously, all the congressional leadership stuff that we saw when we were at the convention last week coming out. 
 
But to hear from Chris Coons at the end of the week that he was in a reflective mood back home in Rehoboth as he is recuperating from COVID, was just a change in understanding where Joe Biden's mindset was heading into this weekend. And obviously resulting in what we learned today. 
 
BLITZER: We now know what he was thinking about and what he eventually did 24 hours later. 
 
Kasie, the Federal Election Commission, the government watchdog over all elections, has already been filed, has been informed to rename the Biden for President campaign the Harris for President Campaign Committee. What do you make of that? 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: Yes. Well, I mean, this shows you why it's so much easier for Kamala Harris to become the next nominee for the Democratic Party than it might for anyone else, because this is all sitting there waiting for her. Clearly, President Biden is supportive of this, is supportive of her, and is able to make this change, but I do think that it's important to pay attention to the language that people are using in this period as the Democrats tried to decide what to do next. Harris herself in these conversations that she's having with
 
 lawmakers, the message is she is calling them and asking them for their support. Right? If you talk to any, you know, voter or like anyone who's teaching a candidate how to do this from the very beginning, they will say it is very important to ask a voter for their vote. 
 
Kamala Harris is doing that and she is saying, I'm going to earn this, right? And that you heard Debbie Dingell as well in her interview with you underscoring she's supporting Kamala Harris, but that the Democratic Party shouldn't have a coronation. So I think that that's kind of the critical piece of this to watch over the course of the next days as we decide or learn whether there's anyone serious that's going to step up and try and challenge Harris, this motion forward. 
 
BLITZER: Well, Phil Mattingly, what does the vice president need to do now to unify the Democratic Party behind her? 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF DOMESTIC CORRESPONDENT: Well, one I think point out the last three weeks have been really terrible for the Democratic Party in terms of their ability to win in November. And I think she has struck a balance and I think her statement demonstrated a recognition of the fact that you can't kind of say everything is over with. There needs to be an effort to this case he was pointing out which she's been doing over the course of the last several hours, to make the calls to get the commitments to actually go through the process. 
 
But I also think there's a recognition of people around her, maybe not Karen saying, we've got to wrap this up quickly, not to disenfranchise people, but because the clock is ticking. There are 107 days left. I think when you talk to Democrats, even those that were not necessarily the biggest fans of the vice president or a better way to frame it, they liked other people or we want a govern to run or somebody else to run. 
 
They said, look, we don't have time anymore. The campaign mechanics and logistics say it should be the vice president. The team says it should be the vice president. And the fact that she's ready to go now says it should be the vice presidents so let's go. 
 <br>[18:40:06]
 
BLITZER: You know, it's interesting, Kate Bedingfield, that the Vice President Kamala Harris now was going to be the Democratic presidential nominee. She's going to have to select a vice presidential running mate. How pivotal could this decision be? 
 
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think it's a really important one, you know, historically, I think you can debate whether the vice presidential nominee ultimately has a significant impact, you know, electorally on the outcome one way or the other. But I think in this moment when there's so much urgency and intensity around the need to unify the party, and you know, for Democrats to really unite behind the standard bearer, I think, you know, choosing somebody who can help motivate parts of the Democratic coalition who have maybe been turned off by this entire process. 
 
I mean, don't forget there are many members of the Democratic Party who are frustrated by what they feel, you know, has happened to President Biden over the last three weeks. And so there's a need for urgency here, and I think this is a moment where a vice presidential pick who could potentially have more weight, you know, than in other moments just because there's so much focus on what happens to the party right now in a way that, you know, that intensity isn't always there when the vice presidential selection is being made. 
 
BLITZER: It's going to be a critically important decision. 
 
Karen Finney, this just jumped out at me, Donald Trump just posting on social media and let me read it for our viewers. "I think the debate with whomever the radical left Democrats choose should be held on FOX News rather than very biased ABC." 
 
Is this a sign potentially he's afraid he doesn't want to debate Kamala Harris? 
 
KAREN FINNEY, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, he ought to be afraid. I mean, she's a prosecutor and she's very -- she was very good at her job and she looks she has been a governing partner to the president for the last three and a half years, I think what it suggests, maybe he's getting cold feet. I don't know. He was perfectly happy to debate Joe Biden on ABC, wasn't he? 
 
Look, here's what the other thing that I think is important. You're going to see, it was always in the plan from the Republicans to attack Kamala Harris as a woman, as a woman of color, to use tropes, to undermine her intelligence, who has already making fun of her laugh and the tone of her voice. So we're going to hear that, you know, going gangbusters in a way that we were already going to hear because again there were having trouble making things stick against Joe Biden. 
 
They tried to make her the issue in 2020. Again, I think you'll see it again in 2024 and try to use some of the very stereotypes that he's actually running against as a way to run against her. 
 
BLITZER: Kristen Soltis Anderson is with us as well. 
 
Kristen, as you know, some Republicans are already calling on Biden not just to withdraw as a Democratic presidential candidate, but to give up his White House position right now and stop being president of United States. He still last several months to go until the end of his term. The vice presidential -- Republican vice presidential candidate, J.D. Vance, among them, tweeted this. "If Joe Biden ends his reelection campaign, how can he justify remaining president? Not running for reelection would be a clear admission that President Trump was right all along about Biden not being mentally fit enough to serve as commander-in-chief." 
 
Do you think we should expect more of these kinds of comments in the coming days? 
 
KRISTEN SOLTIS ANDERSON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I do. I expect a lot more of that in part but because Republicans, even before Biden's decision, were already trying to say, don't you feel uncomfortable with him as the person in the situation room? This is already a message that they were on. So now with this decision by Biden, it just underscores it. And frankly, Republicans I think are quite eager to still have Biden's name in the news for him not to just be able to sort of quietly stay back in the Oval Office and let Harris go out front, because there are lots of polls that show voters are very concerned, not just about Bidens age, but about the policies of his administration. 
 
They will want to keep linking Kamala Harris as closely as possible to Joe Biden. This is one way to keep doing that. 
 
BLITZER: Everybody -- 
 
CHALIAN: And we're seeing in battleground states the super PAC aligned with Donald Trump is making this argument that she was in on this, and that she was part of the cover-up of what Biden's true status was. We're going to continue hearing that all throughout. 
 
BLITZER: You're going to be continuing to hear a whole lot more as well. 
 
Everybody, stand by. Now that President Biden's out, Democratic leaders are now gaming out several scenarios. So what will happen next? We'll have a special reporting that's coming up next. Plus New York City Mayor Eric Adams joins us live. He's been standing by Biden. Does he believe the president made the right decision? Much more of our special coverage right after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:48:38]
 
BLITZER: We're back with our breaking news. We're getting fresh reaction to President Biden's decision to drop out of the race including from the -- his administration. We're getting some reaction as well. Secretary of State Antony Blinken just reacting, writing this, and I'm quoting him now, "It has been and remains the honor of my life to work for President Biden. He has restored U.S. leadership around the world and delivered historic accomplishments as president," and close quote. 
 
Joining us now Senator Amy Klobuchar. 
 
Senator, thanks so much for joining us. 
 
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): Thanks, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER: I want to get your reaction, first of all, to this truly historic decision from President Biden to step aside from the 2024 election. 
 
KLOBUCHAR: You know, president took the honorable path and I think yes, this will be about his legacy, not only on the world stage, but also restoring the rule of law, putting people like Ketanji Brown Jackson in the judge's seat on the Supreme Court. The work that he has done on infrastructure, bringing down pharma prices, taking on big interests. 
 
But I know that for him and for so many of us, it's not just the legacy, it's moving forward. And I think that's what you saw with his endorsement of his vice president. He is very interested in not just what goes on in the next six months but he wants to, as he says, finish the job and keep working on the agenda going into the coming years. 
 <br>[18:50:01]
 
BLITZER: Your Democratic colleague, Congressman Lloyd Doggett of Texas, just told me here a little while ago that he supports what he calls an open convention in Chicago to decide who should be the Democratic presidential nominee and other Democrats have called for that as well. I know you've endorsed Kamala Harris but shouldn't others get a chance to make their case? 
 
KLOBUCHAR: You know, we are a big tent party and that has made us stronger. We have people of different views. We're united on our candidate when all is said and done so if other people choose to run, there will be a process to deal with it and actually my governor, Governor Walz, heads up the rules committee. And so they will set that up going forward. 
 
Just for me today, today is the day to talk about President Biden, to look forward to this campaign, and I think as you know, Wolf, there's going to be a lot of speculation about the vice president. And this is going to be a bit of a speed dating situation because there's not going to be a lot of time and I think that the fact that Vice President Harris has shown her stuff as a world leader, she brings receipts to this campaign, she's a fierce debater. She's going to be able to take on Donald Trump and prosecute the case. She was a prosecutor. 
 
BLITZER: It's interesting. She's 59 years old. He's, what, 78 years old. We'll see how that unfolds. Are you confident, Senator, that Vice President Kamala Harris has enough time now to unite Democrats and eventually defeat Donald Trump in the November election? 
 
KLOBUCHAR: I truly do because you're already seeing people come out strongly in favor of her from moderate Democrats to liberal Democrats. You are seeing people uniting on her candidacy. And you also already have infrastructure set up in all of these swing states and across the country. What I think this is going to add to what President Biden has already set up is just going to be a lot of energy. 
 
You're going to have a new ticket. You're going to have volunteers showing up. They know the stakes are high, and sometimes a short-term campaign gets people going more than a long-term campaign. 
 
BLITZER: Interesting point. Senator, thanks so much for joining us. 
 
KLOBUCHAR: It was great to be on, Wolf. Thank you very much. 
 
BLITZER: Erin, back to you. 
 
BURNETT: All right, Wolf. And now you've heard from Senator Klobuchar, let's bring in the mayor of New York City, Eric Adams. 
 
And Mayor Adams, I appreciate your time and look, just so everyone knows where you stood over these past few weeks, you have been steadfast. You have stood by President Biden and you have done so as many others made a different decision, but you stood by him. How do you feel right now, Mayor? Do you believe he made the right decision by dropping out? 
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS, NEW YORK CITY: Well, I think that we're seeing a real indicator of patriotism. A person who is willing to relinquish their personal desires. To do what's right for our country. And that is why I was saying I was riding with Biden because I think he has shown us over the years, no matter what tragedies he may have faced that he wanted to always do what's best for America, and he made that decision. 
 
And I think it's time now for the Democratic Party to determine a very clear message for the future. 
 
BURNETT: All right, so that clear message, what is that? From your perspective, Mayor, is that you're taking as many others have today but not everyone. Are you endorsing Kamala Harris to be the Democratic nominee for president? 
 
ADAMS: Well, I think the clear message is what's best for New Yorkers and Americans. Affordability is a real issue, public safety, and securing our borders and making sure we have a message for all children and clear direction. And that's what the people I want. Now, there's a process in place. I'm a delegate and I don't want to do anything that's going to interfere with that process. 
 
I'm looking forward to sitting down with the other delegates and leaders of the parties to determine our next steps. 
 
BURNETT: All right. So a couple of questions on that, but first, you mentioned the border and immigration. That is an issue of course, that has been absolutely central to the city that you -- of which you are the mayor. You have voiced frustration with Vice President Harris, who of course was in charge of the border for President Biden as your city has struggled with an influx or surge of migrants. You said she had too much in her portfolio at one point when you were frustrated. 
 
Does that why you're hesitant? I know you're talking about a process, obviously many others are coming out and straight-out endorsing her and you're obviously opting not to do that. Is the border why? 
 
ADAMS: No. You're not receiving any hesitation from me. I've been frustrated with the national leadership of dealing with immigration reform is something that we have failed at that for years even prior to this administration. I was very clear. We needed one person, a czar, to deal with the influx of migrants that will come into our country who are paroled in. And so in areas where I disagree does not deal with the overwhelming number of immigrants where I agree. I agree that this administration has done an amazing job for America around those important issues. 
 <br>[18:55:09]
 
BURNETT: All right, so just to be clear, though, are you are you formally endorsing Vice President Harris today or not? 
 
ADAMS: And I think I was clear that there's a process and we're going to follow that prosecutes delegate. And as we delegate, I'm going to ensure that we engage in communication that's needed for the next step. This is still fresh. This just happened a few hours ago and we will move forward accordingly. 
 
BURNETT: Well, it's important, as you mentioned, you are a delegate, so you've got a vote in this You want a process. I want to ask you about something else, Mayor, that you may not have heard of because you were probably literally hooked in to talk to us. But jake tapper, my colleague, is reporting that sources close to Senator Joe Manchin say that he is now considering registering as a Democrat to throw his hat in the ring. 
 
Do you support that? 
 
ADAMS: Well, what I support -- I support the beauty of the frictionless or the friction process of democracy. This is democracy and we should be proud that every time we change power we do it in a peaceful way and whomever wants to run, they should have a right to do so and we make the decision who to best represent our party. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Well, Mayor Adams, I appreciate your time. We all do. Thank you so much. 
 
ADAMS: Thank you. Thank you. 
 
BURNETT: And our breaking news continues after this. Our John King is standing by to break down how Biden's decision to step aside affects the November election. It is about the numbers, the states, the districts, and well talk to the Democratic Congressman Dean Phillips, who is one of the few Democrats who actually challenged Biden during the original primary. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)