Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Brad Smith is Interviewed about Microsoft's AI Facility; Polls on Stormy Daniels' Testimony; Weight Loss Drugs Causing Unexpected Pregnancies; Police Clear George Washington University. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired May 08, 2024 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:24] 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: President Biden will soon be leaving the White House and headed to Wisconsin, where he'll appear alongside Microsoft at it - as it announces a $3.3 billion investment in the state. The company says it's building out a data hub focused on artificial intelligence, an AI center that they say well train about 100,000 workers, and, before that, will create thousands of union construction jobs and more. 
 
There's also this. Biden's appearance there today is also a not-so- subtle snub at Donald Trump. Six years ago, on this very same land, the Trump administration celebrated and multi-billion-dollar investment that another company, Foxconn, was going to break ground on. Donald Trump even declaring this about that project.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I want to wish you good luck and congratulations on truly one of the eighth wonder - I think we can say this is - we can say, the eighth wonder of the world. This is the eighth wonder of the world. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: Those big promises did not happen. And today is a very different day. Joe Biden is expected, though, to directly blame Trump for that failed project in his remarks later today. 
 
But for more on what is going to be built there now, Microsoft's $3.3 billion investment, joining us from Wisconsin as Microsoft's vice chair and president, Brad Smith. 
 
Thank you for taking the time this morning. 
 
Talk to me about why this is good business and a good move for Microsoft right now.
 
BRAD SMITH, VICE CHAIR AND PRESIDENT, MICROSOFT: Well, this is all part of bringing artificial intelligence to this country, and really using it to propel the next generation of manufacturing, including here in Wisconsin and Michigan and across the upper Midwest. 
 
And that's why we're investing not just in this massive build-out, money we'll spend just between now and the end of 2026, but training of workers, especially with people who are leading manufacturing companies, co-innovating with them. So, they can put AI to work to ensure that American manufacturing is globally competitive. 
 
BOLDUAN: Is there something specific about Wisconsin, Brad?
 
SMITH: Well, it is an extraordinary place. I happened to grow up very close to here, so I know it well. Manufacturing in many ways started in the upper Midwest. It started in Wisconsin. There's a legacy of innovation. But it's also a place where people, I think, get things done by working together. 
 
This has required the leadership of President Biden, a congressman here, Bryan Steil, the local village president for the village of Mount Pleasant, people have come together to make this project possible for a company like Microsoft. 
 
BOLDUAN: And this makes business sense for Microsoft. This also, as I spoke about at the top, this makes policy and political sense for the White House. We know that President Biden is planning to call out Donald Trump today for that failed Foxconn project that was to be built on some of the same land as your project. It highlights once again that we are definitely in an election year. Not asking you to weigh in on Foxconn and its project - it's failed project. What does this political cycle and election your mean for Microsoft? 
 
SMITH: Well, look, we're not running for anything. We realize that companies sometimes start things they can't finish. 
 
I will say this, this administration has been enormously helpful. A project like this, it requires the bipartisan infrastructure bill that was passed. The chips that will be produced in America through the Chips and Science Act. The clean technology that will benefit from the Inflation Reduction Act. This administration's commitment to safe and secure AI, and cyber security more broadly. 
 
So, we're pleased with the work we've done at the national level, all the way to the state with Governor Evers, the local village and county of Racine. Everybody has to work together. At the end of the day, that's how you get things done, whether you're a business or anybody else. 
 
BOLDUAN: That's - that' is so true. 
 
You mentioned safe and secure AI. Microsoft is one of the major companies leading in AI development, and also agreed last year to meet AI safeguards brokered with the White House to ensure, well, just that, that AI products are safe. 
 
But CNN has reporting, and others have reported, Brad, that Microsoft's own homepage, msm.com, has had its own problems in the last year with fake news and conspiracy theory being published on the site, mistakes that appear to be driven by increasing reliance on automation and AI over human editors to curate the page. 
 <br>[08:35:06]
 
How do you ensure AI products are safe? Can you?
 
SMITH: Well, I think we have to. And I think it requires that we face our problems head on. We learned from the early efforts we undertake. It is about creating technology that is supervised by people, that remains under human control. And so as we take steps, as we have taken steps this past year, there have been times when we've had to course correct. But, fundamentally, I think our whole industry is coming together. It needs to come together. And, frankly, it needs to come together with people in government. And they're here to, this White House, actually has been leading the way, not just for this country, but I think for the world as a whole.
 
BOLDUAN: Brad, while I have you, there was - I'm sure you, of course, remember, we all do, there was a moment in 2020 that Microsoft was in the game and offering to buy TikTok. That didn't happen then. President Biden just signed into law a bill that threatens a ban on the platform here if they don't sell - if the China-based parent company doesn't sell to a U.S. - U.S. based buyer. Is TikTok a type of product and investment that AI - that Microsoft could be interested in once again?
 
SMITH: Well, I doubt we'll repeat exactly what happened in 2020, when Microsoft was in the middle of all of that. But we'll see what happens. I think that you're going to see a lot of companies want to follow closely where this goes. Obviously, it's going to court, even after it went through Congress. And, you know, we'll see what the future holds. I think it's too early to make any predictions. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes, I was - by the way, I was not anticipating you were going to disclose your investment strategy right here. But, whenever you would like to, Brad, please do. 
 
Thank you for coming on. Congratulations on the big day for Microsoft and for Wisconsin. Really appreciate your time. 
 
Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right, ahead, we're going to discuss what is happening with an American soldier who has recently been detained in Russia. What he is being accused of, and how soon he might be free. 
 
Also, this video is insane. Take a look at this. A car ends up going over a building. You're not seeing that. You're just seeing this, which is not as interesting.
 
BOLDUAN: (INAUDIBLE).
 
SIDNER: So, this is what we call a tease. We're going to show you this incredible video when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:41:26]
 
SIDNER: And now to that insane video. On our radar this morning, a wild car chase in Phoenix ended this way, But look at this. This is surveillance video. Whoa. It's the moment a car flipped through the air, up on the sidewalk, right next to that home, after the driver lost control. Investigators believe it went airborne after hitting that curb there. Then it rolled over, landed upside down. Shockingly, the driver, he was able to get out of the car after this and left the scene.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMY SCHUGAR, NEIGHBOR: It was flat. I wats crumpled. There was glass everywhere. The tow truck driver, they turned the car over, and there's just - liquor bottles come flying out of the car. Insanity that this guy could get away like that. He's dangerous, obviously. But, you know, you wonder too, is he OK? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was no drops of blood. Nothing - no signs of anybody even being in the car.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: I guess that could be an ad for the safety of the car, because police say, if impairment was a factored, and you heard those liquor bottles were all over the place according to a witness, they are still looking for the driver. Can't find the driver.
 
All right, and update now on the American soldier who was detained last week in Russia. Staff Sergeant Gordon Black was seen in a previous video saying that he understands Russia's position in a question about U.S. and Russian relations. Black was arrested in Russia on suspicion of theft and will be detained for at least the next two months.
 
All right, you like to go out to eat. Maybe you go to Panera every now and then. Well, its pulling some of its most popular drinks off their menu after there were several lawsuits because of an insane amount of caffeine in those drinks. The drinks Charged Lemonade and Charged Sips, as they're called, can have upwards of 230 milligrams of caffeine in a 30 ounce serving. All right, this is why this is insane. That's more than half of what the FDA says is safe for the entire day to drink, not per drink. The lawsuits claim the drinks have led to people suffering major health problems and even caused two deaths according to those suits. Panera Bread said previously they stood by the safety of their products and did not comment on the timing of those menu changes. 
 
John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, Stormy Daniels back on the stand tomorrow morning in the criminal trial against Donald Trump. Trump is accused of falsifying documents to cover up hush money payments to Stormy Daniels, all to influence the 2016 election. It has been some testimony so far from Daniels.
 
With me now, CNN's senior data reporter Harry Enten.
 
And you can see in some of the numbers the impact that her testimony has had. 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Yes, you know, there's been some question of how much interest has there been in the American public in this trial. When it comes to Stormy Daniels' testimony, there's a lot of interest. There was 20 times as many Google searches for her on Tuesday than there was a Monday. And remember, of course, David Pecker testified earlier in the trial, eight times as many searches for Stormy Daniels on Tuesday than on the days that David Pecker testified for him. So, the fact is, Americans might not be so tuned into the trial itself, but when it came to Stormy Daniels' testimony, they were definitely tuned in. 
 
BERMAN: Yes, they paid attention to that. 
 
All right, in general, there are some numbers about how Americans feel about believing some of the charges against Trump. What do you have on that? 
 
ENTEN: Yes, so, you know, there's sort of this question of how believable is it, you know, that Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal were essentially paid off for their alleged affairs with him. And what we see here is that most Americans believe that that's absolutely believable. Even most Republicans believe that it is absolutely believable, John. 
 <br>[08:45:04]
 
BERMAN: Well, no, my thing is -- is, I don't understand the question here because this isn't in dispute. Even Trump's attorneys are not disputing that Daniels and McDougal were paid. They were paid money. You know, the question is, was it to cover up - or was it to influence the election and were documents falsified? 
 
ENTEN: Yes, I - on the documents falsified, I can't necessarily get into that with this particular poll question, but on this particular one it's essentially, I think, getting at the idea that they were paid off during the 2016 campaign to keep them quiet.
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
ENTEN: During that campaign.
 
BERMAN: Yes, again, it's just - it's - actually it's interesting to me that 32 percent of Republicans still don't believe -
 
ENTEN: Don't believe it.
 
BERMAN: That the payments were made when no one is disputing at this point that the payments were made. They're saying, oh, I still don't believe it, even though everyone admits it.
 
ENTEN: I guess that sort of speaks to the sort of strength that Donald Trump has over them.
 
BERMAN: Right.
 
ENTEN: They couldn't believe he did something wrong.
 
BERMAN: All right. In terms of how views of Donald Trump have changed in the three to four weeks this trial has been going on, what are you seeing there?
 
ENTEN: Yes, have views changed at all? You know, we've been focusing in on those horse race numbers between Biden and Trump. And those really haven't moved. 
 
But how about views of Trump individually? Pre-trial, 42 percent of Americans had a positive view of him. Now, it's that same 42 percent. These numbers put, John, simply haven't moved. He wasn't popular before the trial. He isn't popular now. But the fact is, he still is leading Joe Biden, at least in the swing states that matter.
 
BERMAN: That looks like no movement. 
 
ENTEN: No movement. Forty-two and 42. I think those are the same, John. 
 
BERMAN:  Yes.
 
All right, Harry Enten, thank you very much for that. 
 
ENTEN: Thanks.
 
BERMAN: Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Drugs like Ozempic have definitely helped so many people lose weight, but it's also leading do something unexpected, a mini baby boom. The science behind Ozempic babies. 
 
We'll be back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:50:44]
 
SIDNER: This morning, Ozempic babies? Yes, that's what I said. Some women are reporting an unexpected side effect from taking the drug used for diabetes and, as you know, famously used for weight loss, pregnancy.
 
CNN medical correspondent Meg Tirrell is joining us now with more on the science behind these surprise pregnancies.
 
What is happening and why?
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so we know that millions of people are taking these GLP-1 drugs. And we are starting to hear these anecdotes of people sometimes having a surprise pregnancy while taking the medicines. Scientists say there are actual real reasons why this might be happening. One is that it's known that weight loss can impact fertility. If somebody's having irregular cycles, for example, sometimes because of a syndrome called PCOS, other times due to other reasons, five to 10 percent weight loss or even more, which you often see with these medicines, can restore regular cycles, which can lead to the ability to get pregnant. 
 
The other thing people should really know about these medicines is that tirzepatide based drugs, so that's Mounjaro and Zepbound, they actually have a warning in their label that they make oral birth control potentially less effective. 
 
SIDNER: Oh.
 
TIRRELL: And that could be because these drugs work by sort of slowing the emptying of food from the stomach, and that affects the absorption of medicines taken by mouth. So, folks should know oral birth control may not work quite as well when you're on these medicines and you need a backup form.
 
We did talk with one young mom who had been trying for two years to get pregnant. Her name's Catara Bentley (ph). She went on Mounjaro to try to lose weight. She lost 40 pounds over five months. And then suddenly she was pregnant. She did not expect it. She has a healthy baby girl now named Ivy (ph), but she was worried the entire time she was pregnant because the safety of these drugs in pregnancy really isn't widely studied. 
 
SIDNER: That is what I was going to ask you. It's like, is there any problem with taking it while you're pregnant and how it might affect the baby? And we don't - we just don't know that, right, because they haven't been around very long. 
 
TIRRELL: Exactly. And also, I mean, in the original trials of these medicines, it's a common practice to exclude women who are pregnant or people who are trying to get pregnant. So, these weren't studied officially in trials. They are collecting real-world data on accidents, really.
 
SIDNER: OK.
 
TIRRELL: Because this is bound to happen. So far the human studies, they are small. They haven't turned up anything hugely alarming. But animal studies have suggested a cause for caution. So, there is a reason that doctors say stop taking these medicines two months before trying to conceive. 
 
SIDNER: Well, at least there was a happy story there. 
 
TIRRELL: Yes.
 
SIDNER: Somebody got pregnant that wanted to be pregnant and was very, very happy about it. 
 
TIRRELL: And a very cute baby.
 
SIDNER: And they lost weight at the same time somehow. TIRRELL: Yes.
 
SIDNER: Meg - thank you, Meg Tirrell. Appreciate it.
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, happening this morning, it looked like a war zone. New and violent clashes between police and student protestors.
 
And then a new report this morning. Presidential candidate Robert Kennedy Jr. says a worms - this is his quote - a worm got into my brain and ate a portion and then died. The new details on his jarring and pretty bizarre health admission.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
[08:58: 04]
 
BERMAN: All right, breaking overnight, police in the nation's capital have arrested dozens of people as they cleared a pro-Palestinian protest encampment site at George Washington University. Authority say at least one officer did use pepper spray near the area.
 
CNN's Gabe Cohen is at George Washington University this morning. 
 
What's the latest from the scene, Gabe?
 
GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, John, we're going to zoom into what's left behind me, what's left of that encampment on GW's property as it's slowly getting cleared away by city employees. There are a lot of D.C. police officers here at the scene. They - it's now been close to five hours since they initially came in with the plan to clear the camp. 
 
We know that they arrested, the police say, between 30 and 40 people. Some of them are going to be charged, most likely, with trespassing. For others it's going to be assault on police officer because of some sort of skirmish, John, that happened on the other side of the protest when demonstrators clashed with police. We also know, as you mentioned, pepper spray was used on at least one person at the scene.
 
But look, this is really striking, John, as you mentioned, because for close to two weeks now the city and D.C.'s police department have declined repeated requests from GW, from the university, to come in and clear the camp, saying it was a peaceful protest and there was no need to do that. But, obviously, something changed to overnight with MPD saying over the past couple of days they have gotten information and incidents that led them to believe things had become more volatile and that this camp needed to be cleared. 
 
We spoke with a protester just a little while ago who was here this morning, who spoke about his frustration with police coming in and arresting so many of those students.
 
Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AHMED EL MASRY, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY STUDENT: I'm angry. Like, we've been here peacefully protesting. This was our camp. We - it became a community. Like, we were here speaking up for something noble. And it just - they took it all away because the mayor is about to meet Capitol Hill today. 
 <br>[09:00:07]
 
And they were going to ask her about that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)