Headline: Erin Burnett Outfront
Sub-headline: Biden Breaks Silence As Harris Declares "One Team, One Fight"; Interview With New York AG Letitia James; Lawmakers Demand Answers, Secret Service Director Refuses. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired July 22, 2024 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[19:00:42]
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: OUTFRONT next:
 
Breaking news, President Biden breaking his silence just a few moments ago about the end of his campaign, as he party swiftly backed Kamala Harris to lock up the entire nomination in the next 48 hours.
 
Plus, not grateful. Trump's pick for VP accusing Harris of not sounding grateful when she speaks to this country. What does he mean? The Democratic attorney general of New York state, Letitia James, a Harris supporter, is OUTFRONT.
 
And coconuts and brats. Why Kamala Harris is loving both. 
 
Let's go OUTFRONT.
 
(MUSIC)
 
BURNETT: Good evening. I'm Erin Burnett.
 
OUTFRONT tonight, breaking news, President Biden breaking his silence just a few moments ago about his historic decision, an unprecedented moment in American history to end his campaign and pass the torch, endorsing his vice president, Kamala Harris. The president calling into his campaign headquarters -- well, what were his campaign headquarters until hours before as Harris was there, about to meet with staffers for the first time since Biden dropped out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (via telephone): I want to say to the team, embrace her. She's the best. I wanted to call everybody, everybody on this effort. I know yesterday's news is surprising and it's hard for you to hear. But it was the right thing to do. I know it's hard because you poured your heart and soul into me, so help us win this thing, helped me get this nomination, helped me win the nomination. And then go on to win the win the presidency. 
 
But, you know, you're an amazing team, but we've got a great, great -- I think we made the right decision.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BURNETT: It's only banned about 30 hours since Biden made the stunning announcement to end his campaign for a second term after, you know, adamantly and defiantly saying he would not just in those 30 hours, his vice president is now on her way to replacing him at the top of the ticket. 
 
As you can see, the Biden campaign headquarters is now the Harris headquarters. That happened instantly and just moments ago Harris, to her new staff and Biden said this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It is so good to hear our president's voice. Joe, I know you're still on the call and we've been talking every day. You probably -- you guys heard it from Doug's voice. We love Joe and Jill. We really play do. They truly are like family to us.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So do we.
 
HARRIS: And I believe everybody here.
 
BIDEN: It's mutual.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
HARRIS: I know you were still. You're not going anywhere, Joe. 
 
BIDEN: I'm watching you, kid. I'm watching you, kid. I love it. 
 
HARRIS: I love you, Joe. Oh.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: You could see tears in her eyes there. 
 
Now, Biden has said he intends to address the nation any day now, but the party moved on immediately. And honestly, it's worth just taking a step back for a second to talk about stunning that is, because so many of those party elites in mega donors, while lamenting about Biden, made it clear that they did not want Harris on the top of their ticket. 
 
But that is all over. They are all formally on board or as close to it as they can be. And maybe those elites misread the voters in the room because the Harris campaign says it has raised a record $81 million just in this past day, the majority of that money didn't come from those elite circles. It came from people making their first contribution this election and that is energy. 
 
So we wanted to put that money mostly from first time donors just into some perspective for you. First, it dwarfs Trump's largest hall, which was $53 million raised after he was found guilty on 34 felony counts in New York. So, $81 million to her to 53, and that's his best -- best showing in this election. 
 
Second, it is more than Biden himself, President Biden raised in the entire first quarter. We had all those mega-donors on board after announcing his reelection campaign. So, that is context that matters. 
 
And then there's this, the Harris campaign says that nearly 30,000 volunteers signed up in just the past day, and sources tell CNN that Harris may have a majority of the delegates by Wednesday required to secure the nomination.
 
So, back to the elected elites of her party. So far, 186 of them representatives in the House of Representatives, including Nancy Pelosi are on board, 41 senators and 23 governors have endorsed Harris Chris. That is a political tsunami. 
 
In fact, far from the contested chaotic convention that some had said would happen is there was a duking it out of Harris and Newsom and Whitmer and Shapiro, and all these folks -- and, by the way, they're all backing her. 
 <br>[19:05:08]
 
As of tonight, it seems that will be what modern conventions essentially are, which is a coronation. And the biggest race against time right now isn't finding nominee but a VP and on that front, sources tell CNN they have a list of about ten names that they are racing to vet. Obviously, it's an in-depth process.
 
In a moment, I'm going to speak to someone who was likely on that list, the governor of Minnesota, Tim Walz. 
 
Meanwhile, former President Trump, of course, is -- well, this was not what he expected a few weeks ago. But wasting no time taking on Harris, going after his new potential rival online posting: Joe Biden will go down as the worst president in history of the United States, and then escalating to all caps, Kamala. our horrible and in competent borders czar, will be worse. 
 
Kayla Tausche is OUTFRONT live outside the White House to begin our coverage tonight. 
 
And, Kayla, you know, we just saw Harris the new Harris campaign headquarters, which were the Biden headquarters. We heard him call in and I know you have new reporting on that tsunami of support that I referenced behind Harris tonight.
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. Erin, there was real energy in that room tonight and it is not just the upper strata of the Democratic Party or the cash coming into coffers that donors are providing. There's a real on-the-ground infusion of energy at this hour, a campaign official says that in the last day, more than 28,000 new volunteers have signed up for their effort. That's a 100 times the average of a daily sign-up in -- you know, in prior days for a campaign that's been going on for over a year at this point.
 
The campaign now has 250 offices, hundreds of thousands of volunteers, and thousands of full time staff members. And tonight, Vice President Harris said that she has asked Biden's campaign chair Jen O'Malley Dillon to stay on and Dillon has accepted that. 
 
So that's certainly a piece of news as far as the campaign leadership goes, but we've also learned that were this jolt of energy has come into the campaign, it's not just the campaign itself, its also outside groups restarting some of these efforts that had been paused. 
 
One Democratic group in particular, one of the largest outside groups called American Bridge, Ive learned exclusively, is set to roll out a $20 million ad campaign later this week, the first since Biden withdrew from the ticket and Harris has been running for that position as well. 
 
This is going to be a targeting Trump as a candidate because they're not naming Biden or Harris by name. They didn't have to reedit or re- cut any of these. But notably Erin, these ads will be targeting working class women in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, a critical constituency for Harris campaign in three critical battlegrounds states -- Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Kayla, thank you very much as promised. 
 
And as promise now, I want to go to the Democratic governor of Minnesota, Tim Walz. He's been mentioned, of course, as a possible VP candidate, and also the head of the Democratic National Convention Rules Committee, which governor I'm sure is not usually listed on your accolades in an interview, but now of course is front and center. 
 
So, let me -- let me just start. Obviously, this is your first national interview since you came out and quickly endorsed vice president Harris she said moments ago in that back-and-forth at the campaign headquarters, which president Biden was a part of that she intends to earn the nomination and I know though governor some in your party at advocated for sort of a mini primary of sorts, which all sorts of ideas have been out there, but everyone should compete with some town halls and then you do it on the convention floor or some iteration of that. 
 
Do you support a process at this point or do you think this a done deal? 
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN): Sure. No, we have an open process, Erin, and thanks for having me. And you can feel that energy, you saw it in that room, and that's exactly what the vice president said when she called me. She said, look, I'm going to earn this. Let me get out there and do it. 
 
We have an open process. What will happen is Wednesday, the Rules Committee will get together, will set that process out and then starting after that, we'll have about three days where anybody who's interested can get in. You'll have your opportunity. You need to get 300 delegates, no more than 50 from each state. Then starting about the 28th, you can make your pitch. And then after the 1st August, we'll vote. In a post-COVID world, people vote by mail. We do that. So it's a convention. It's open. Anybody's welcome to come in? I think
 
 what you saw was is the energy on the vice president was stunning yesterday, folks who might have been thinking that they were going to do that saw that this is, this is a leader, this is someone who is there with Joe Biden as we passed all these things. And ready to go. 
 
So I think folks need to be clear. It is an open process. Anyone is welcome. The delegates who were selected will cast their vote as they see fit. And we will come out with a nominee in time to get on all the 50 states ballot on their ballots. 
 
BURNETT: Okay. So I actually want to follow up with you on that. I do want to talk about your conversation with her, but first, let me get straight to the rules then because what you said there just a couple of things fully understand. She talked about a process you meet on Wednesday, than everyone else three days and those are the specific rules, right? They got up 300 delegates if you're going to jump in and go for that.
 
WALZ: Correct.
 
BURNETT: All right.
 <br>[19:10:00]
 
Let me just ask you though, if nobody else gets 300, it does seems to be that it's going to be her. Do -- right now, I know that the Democratic delegates are set to vote as soon as next week, virtually, right? So, your nominee would be set virtually by the delegates well before -- almost two weeks before -- maybe even earlier than the actual convention itself. 
 
Do you still go ahead with that virtual nomination?
 
WALZ: Oh, yeah, absolutely. The reason is for this, Erin, is it's Republicans in Ohio set the voting standards. It used to be perfunctory. We'd say, oh, yeah, if you miss the deadline, we get you, we know who your nominee is or whatever. They're already threatening to go to court on this. 
 
We have to get this done by this 7th. State of Washington is the 20th. So this is -- it's just to make sure that we meet the timeline for it. It would be the same thing if we did it in person. There would be no difference. People would be in. They would gather their delegates, they would vote. 
 
We will have -- you know, we'll have a ceremonial vote afterwards, but it's just, it's still to meet the deadlines.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BURNETT: So, it will be set the Senate. Okay. I just -- I just want to make sure you're clear on that because obviously you as the chair of this committee. I mean, you know, if you were wavering on it, that would be significant. You're clearly not. You're set with this.
 
WALZ: No. No. 
 
BURNETT: Yeah.
 
WALZ: No. We weren't wavering I mean, it was this process was in. I don't think it was explained very well to people, but the rules committee and the delegates know. 
 
BURNETT: Okay so that is going to go ahead as and just to be clear, do you expect that to start, like it could start soon as next Thursday. If you don't have anyone else jump in with 300 delegates, no more than 50 from a given state by the end of this week, do you go ahead and start that virtual vote next Thursday?
 
WALZ: We said, yeah, August 1st, no earlier in that. I think that's right. First or the second to give opportunities to have 72 hours to vote. 
 
There will be opportunity for multiple voltage if we get more candidates. I don't know. I haven't heard anyone say they're going to get in, but they have the opportunity to do that.
 
BURNETT: So this could be set by August 5th.
 
WALZ: Potentially. 
 
BURNETT: All right. 
 
WALZ: Yeah. Yeah. We meet our deadlines. 
 
BURNETT: All right. So, Governor, right now I want to get as promised back to the conversation you had with the vice president yesterday. Did she ask you directly for your support and did she discuss the VP process with you? Obviously, you know, many are sure that you're on a pretty short list.
 
WALZ: Well, no, she did not mention that. What she did is she said, I'm going to earn this, Governor. We've worked together. I'm really proud because not too long ago, she became the first vice president or president who stood in a Planned Parenthood clinic with me in St. Paul. 
 
So we've been there, we've done this together. She said I'd like to have your support. I said you will have it. I will do everything possible just like I did for President Biden. And she said, let me earn this, let's get together. Let's go onto win this thing. And that's where she left it. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Well, Governor Walz. I appreciate your time. Thanks so much. 
 
WALZ: Yeah. Thank you. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Thank you. And it's great that he was able to explain all of that for us.
 
OUTFRONT now, the former Democratic governor of Vermont and 2004 presidential candidate. Of course, you all know him, Howard Dean, and Astead Herndon of "The New York Times", who has reported extensively on Kamala Harris some truly in-depth profiles which I want everyone to know. As I say, anytime I see you, please at this point and everyone needs to go read.
 
So, you've seen this record breaking fundraising, which I tried to put some context around. But as I also said, this is not what the big donors or party elites kind of privately said they wanted any parts of ten days ago or a week ago. 
 
Here we are. It is clear there's real enthusiasm out there for Harris. How deep is it? 
 
ASTEAD HERNDON, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: I think it is deep, but I think it also speaks back to the mandate that the Biden was coming in on in 2020. I think the fundamental misunderstanding was the -- was this a Biden coalition or stop Trump coalition? 
 
What we're seeing right now is that that kind of energy of stopping Trump is still there for Democrats as long as they had a vessel to channel it over the last 24 hours, Vice President Harris has positioned herself as that vessel to really bring back parts of the coalition that were straying further and further away from President Biden. 
 
But I think it is important to note that this is a 180 from where Democrats were last summer when they were thinking ahead to 2028, there was a lot of people who were, who were sowing doubts about president, Vice President Harris's ability to lead the party.
 
BURNETT: Yeah. 
 
HERNDON: Looking to other types of candidates, idea that they can kind of skip over her in the succession.
 
I asked Anita Dunn whether Vice President Harris was chosen for the purposes of succeeding Biden, and she explicitly said no. She said it was a governing partner more so than the political partner. All of that underscores the depths of the crisis that they have found themselves and, and the fact that Harris has positioned herself to be someone to step up.
 
I would say though he had the turning point after the Dobbs decision last year. It found an issue that she could focus on it and it really energized parts of the base. I think that, plus leaning more into a prosecutor record, which he didn't do in 2020 is going to really serve her this time around. 
 
BURNETT: So, Governor, I want to replay some of that back-and-forth that just happened at the now Harris headquarters between the vice president and the president just moments ago, let me play it for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: We love Joe and Jill. We really do. They truly are like family to us. I believe everybody knew that. BIDEN: It's mutual.
 
HARRIS: I know you were still. You're not going anywhere, Joe.
 
BIDEN: I'm watching you, kid. I'm watching you, kid. I love you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[19:15:01]
 
BURNETT: And there were several other times tonight, Governor, where she talked about how much she loved Joe Biden and she praised him. 
 
Let me just play those so everyone can understand it was repeated.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: I just have to say -- I love Joe Biden. I love Joe Biden and I know we all do when we have so many darn good reasons for loving Joe Biden. It has been one of the greatest honors of my life, truly to serve as vice president to our President Joe Biden. It is my great honor to have Joe's endorsement in this race.
 
(CHEERING)
 
BIDEN: Yes, you do.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: Governor, you know, we have not heard much about them having a warm or close relationship. In fact, what we've heard has not been that, right? That they don't spend much time together. 
 
This is different. What we just saw today. Will this sort of interaction meet as genuine?
 
HOWARD DEAN (D), FORMER VERMONT GOVERNOR: I think so. I think so. You know, much to the Republicans fear, this is incredibly competent woman who's been all over the world, knows all the world leaders. 
 
Joe Biden had too big things to his presidency. One, you probably I had the very best domestic political record in his first time, a first term has any president since Lyndon Johnson. And two, he knew every world leader and was able to manage the substantial crisis. 
 
Kamala now knows how to do that. She's met all the people in Europe who were core NATO -- parts of NATO. She's met all the people that you need to meet in order to keep the worlds steady and safe. And I think that's the thing, that American people probably aren't going to vote on but they probably should. 
 
We are the essential nation for the running of the world. And the benefit of that as we have the strongest because currency in the world, and that I know all the Republicans scream and yell about inflation, which is getting much, much better.
 
BURNETT: Yeah.
 
DEAN: But it'd be far worse if we were a weak country and we're not a weak country. Trump was a weak president and made us a weak country. Kamala Harris will not do that because she understands foreign policy. She learned at the feet of the master, Joe Biden.
 
BURNETT: So, Astead, the former attorney general, Eric Holder is going to be leading the vetting process for VP. It doesn't have a lot of time. We understand maybe ten people they reached out to at least a few of them. They asked for a lot of information. Tim Walz, we just interviewed is on that list in some form. We believe.
 
So how quickly do you think she makes this choice? 
 
HERNDON: I think they're going to move quickly partially because they want to come into Chicago with a unified ticket and a unified party. The names you see here are ones that I think we should ones that are expected, Governor Shapiro in Pennsylvania, Beshear in Kentucky, Mark Kelly of Arizona, but it's going to be a kind of open question how they want to balance out the ticket.
 
In the same way that she was supplement to Joe Biden than Joe Biden was a supplement to Barack Obama, they're going to be looking for the same type of fit. And I also think that she has the kind of understanding these needs to be personalities that get along. Also, she'll prioritize that as well. 
 
BURNETT: If I see any more jokes about bland white ones on Twitter.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BURNETT: All right. Thank you both very much. I appreciate it. 
 
And next, Republicans hitting Kamala Harris anyway, they can 100 percent. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One hundred percent, she was DEI hire.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's a DEI hire. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: New York's attorney general, Letitia James, who just endorsed Harris, is my exclusive guest next. 
 
Plus, we'll take you to two crucial battleground states to hear what voters are saying about Kamala Harris. Are they getting in line? 
 
And the head of the Secret Service tonight facing calls from Republicans and Democrats to resign after the assassination attempt against the foreign president Trump. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. NANCY MACE (R-SC): That is a no. You're full of shit today. 
 
REP. RO KHANNA (D-CA): You need to resign.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:22:42]
 
BURNETT: Tonight, Trump's running mate, J.D. Vance, questioning whether Kamala Harris has a, quote, sense of gratitude when it comes to leading the United States, saying that she doesn't appreciate the history of America.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: When I see her give a speech and she talks about the history of this country, not with appreciation, but with condemnation, and look, of course, every country, just like every family, certainly mine has its pockmarks, right? Not everything is perfect. It's never going to be.
 
But you -- if you want to lead this country, you should feel grateful for it. You should feel a sense of gratitude, and I never hear that gratitude come through when I listen to Kamala Harris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: OUTFRONT now, the Democratic attorney general of New York state, Letitia James. She's known Harris for years. She led the nation's six Blacks attorneys general yesterday and endorsing Harris within hours of Biden dropping out of the race.
 
And, Attorney General James, I appreciate your time tonight. 
 
So, you know, you hear J.D. Vance there, the vice presidential nominee for the Republican Party, Trump's VP, say that Harris talks about the history of the United States with condemnation and that she lacks gratitude for it. 
 
What do you hear when you hear that? 
 
LETITIA JAMES (D), NEW YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL: First, thank you for having me on this evening. 
 
I mean, I say to J.D. Vance, Vice President Harris works each and every day for a more perfect union, focusing on reproductive rights each and every day, focusing on the environment, focusing on scammers who prey upon seniors, focusing on the LGBTQ community.
 
All throughout her public career, from district attorney to United States senator, to the attorney general of the great state of California, our vice president has been focused again on issues that Americans and individuals -- that individuals care about each and every day. As opposed to a J.D. Vance, who obviously doesn't not have a moral center, and unfortunately is not a man of conviction. He criticized his running mate, former President Trump, and then, all of a sudden, he'll do and say anything obviously to gain his allegiance and his loyalty. 
 
Vice President Harris is the most qualified candidate for the president of these United States, someone who will unify us, bring us all together. And that's why I have endorsed her. 
 <br>[19:25:01]
 
BURNETT: All right. So on the issue and I'm not -- a sort of why she is where she is, there has been a line of attack from Republicans that I'm sure you've heard, and they are saying she's a DEA -- DEI hire. That's specifically and explicitly what they're saying, right? 
 
Republican Congressman Tim Burchett earlier today said it. Other Republicans have said it in recent days. 
 
Let me just play them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. TIM BURCHETT (R-TN): One hundred percent she was a DEI hire.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's a DEI hire, right? She's a woman, she's colored, therefore, she's got to be good. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you not understand why she was chosen in the first place? She is proven to America why DEI doesn't work. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: A DEI hire?
 
JAMES: So when you have nothing else, when you have nothing else to attack this most qualified candidate for the president of the United States, you automatically go to race. It's unfortunate and it really doesn't require a response. 
 
The reality of the situation is that Vice President Harris is the most qualified individual for the president of these United States. And it's important that individuals, Democrats Republicans, and independents gather around her as she seeks the nomination in these unite -- the nomination for president of these United States.
 
I support her wholeheartedly and I reject those who want to separate us by race and other artificial constructions, artificial barriers.
 
BURNETT: When you talk --  
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JAMES: It's critically important that individuals understand that we need to be unified in this country. We all need to come together, and that race is nothing more than an artificial construct. So it's really critically important that individuals reject that type of language. 
 
BURNETT: So, you talk about the issue that you don't want them to go to the issue of race. There are substantive issues out there though as well. 
 
And one of them of course, is front and center in your own state. Mayor Adams of New York City said more than 200,000 migrants have come to New York since the unprecedented migrant crisis began the spring of 2022. 
 
He points out that that number, 200,000 is larger than the population is most major U.S. cities. And Vice President Harris, of course, was put in charge of the southern border by President Biden.
 
Are you worried about how vulnerable she is on this issue?
 
JAMES: I think it's important that individuals understand that there was a bipartisan solution to addressing the immigration issue and safety at the borders. Unfortunately, it was rejected by the Republican Party because one individual and a candidate who's running for the president of these United States decided that he should -- would use the issue of immigration as a cudgel against all candidates. 
 
It's important that individuals understand Democrats have come to the table and it's -- and we are prepared to address the immigration problem. It's also important to understand that --  
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BURNETT: Attorney General, let me just jump in there, though, because on this issue, Kamala Harris, of course, the vice president, was the point person. The president made the decision, one that bipartisan bill failed to say that the bill failed because of Republicans. And then did not do anything about it, eventually choosing to try to close the border by executive order, but he waited months and months to do that. Eventually, did it. 
 
Do you think that Vice President Harris should come out and say that she would have done it much earlier and to go against President Biden on that, to essentially say that her hands were tied, don't blame her?
 
JAMES: No, the reality is, is that, unfortunately, we have a Congress which is paralyzed and Republicans have been responsible, and they should have done something on immigration reform -- national immigration reform. They have refused to do anything on national immigration reform. 
 
And when there was a bipartisan bill that was proposed unfortunately, was killed by former President Trump. And so, we need to make sure that we put all the facts on the table and that we do not engage in blaming one individual. The reality is, is that the Republicans sat by and did absolutely nothing. 
 
And as a result of that, we need to put forth candidates who recognize that we need immigration reform in these United States, we need to pass a bipartisan approach. We need unity in this country. We need to address gun reform and gun legislation, and all throughout the record, the public record of Vice President Harris, she is focused on issues that Americans care about. 
 
And, unfortunately, Republicans just want to blame others and use race as a reason. And divide us even further. We should not be divided as a nation. 
 
BURNETT: You mentioned -- you mentioned --  
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JAMES: We should come together as a nation and focus on issues that people care about, like people who are scamming senior citizens.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BURNETT: You mentioned President Trump, I just want to -- yeah, I just want to -- I'm sorry, I know we have a little bit of a delay here, so I apologize for that. 
 
But when you mentioned the former president, he has talked about retribution and revenge if he gets another term, which, of course, polls show right now he very mail (ph) -- very may well win. 
 
Given the case that you brought against him in New York, you won that case. That was fraud at Trump Organization. The judge has ruled he has to pay $464 million in that case. 
 
Do you expect or are you worried, Attorney General, that you could be the on his list for retribution?
 
JAMES: I was always taught that faith and fear don't share the same space. 
 <br>[19:30:00]
 
And I don't believe that individual should engage in retribution for me simply doing my job. I did my job in law enforcement. 
 
There was evidenced that Mr. Trump had engaged in financial fraud. He was held liable by a judge. My office is independent of the Department of Justice and right now, we are seeking the prep -- former president of the United States is seeking an appeal with respect to that case. 
 
And at the end of the day, I am confident that we will secure the funds that are owed to the residents of the great state of New York.
 
BURNETT: All right. Attorney General James, I appreciate your time. Thank you so how much. 
 
JAMES: Thank you. I appreciate you, Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right.
 
Next, were on the ground in battleground states to hear what voters are saying. Are they supporting Harris? (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think she's definitely qualified for the job. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think the unfortunate truth is, she he has a lot of baggage in her record.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: Plus, why is Kamala Harris now embracing coconut trees and this song? We have a special report.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BURNETT: Tonight, VP Kamala Harris wasting no time getting into campaign mode in her first speech as a candidate for president.
 <br>[19:35:03]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: We will work to pass universal background checks, red flag laws, and an assault weapons ban.
 
When Congress passes a law to restore reproductive freedoms, as president of the United States, I will sign it into law.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: This comes as our John King is talking to voters in the crucial battleground states where this matters most. 
 
Tonight, he's OUTFRONT in Pennsylvania.
 
And, John, as quickly as party elites are rallying around Vice President Harris, what are voters thinking? 
 
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Most Democratic leaning voters who are energized. They think that the change is good, Erin, but here in Pennsylvania, they're also a little worried. We were in Bethlehem today. We were up in Easton today, critical battlegrounds in winning the commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
Trump won in 2016, he was president. Biden won in 2020, he was president. Every Democrat or Democratic leaning voter here knows how important this state is. 
 
Listen to one, this is Marisa Cerveris. She runs a local Pilates studio. She's a Democrat, she does not want Trump. She worries this happened too late for Harris to make her case. 
 
(BEGIIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARISA CERVERIS, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: I feel like Biden stepping down, its a bit late. I think we knew that this needed to happen for awhile. It's not a question of who can govern I think. It's who can win and beat Trump. And this is, there's too much at stake. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KING: But listen to this, Erin, remember a couple of months ago we talked about when I was in Michigan, angst at the president among younger voters, protest against his support perceived by the students anyway, for Israel in the Israel-Hamas conflict. 
 
Well, we went up to Lafayette College and walked around campus. They're not as busy because its summer, of course, but I talked to a half dozen students who are Democratic leaning and they all thought that change would be good. They thought it would energize young voters who either have a problem with the president because of Israel-Hamas, or just because of his age. 
 
Listen here to Connor Chidsey. He's a medical student here. He says the conversation is suddenly more optimistic.
 
(BEGIN VDIEO CLIP)
 
CONNOR CHIDSEY, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: I feel positive about the change. I'm happy that President Biden was able to recognize where we are as a country and make the best decision for all of us.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KING: It's really fascinating, Erin, you know, the voters are often ahead of Washington. And here in Pennsylvania, they're already debating who should speak as a running mate. A lot of them are looking forward to the debate. A lot of my using a line that Democrats are using on looked quite a bit saying the felon versus the prosecutor, they want to see Harris debate. 
 
I can tell you in Pennsylvania, though, they are a little nervous. They know how tough this state is. I think a lot of Democrats and we found this today are quite sure they don't know a lot about her. They need to hear it fast.
 
BURNETT: Which is interesting, don't know a lot about her and yet she's the most well-known of anyone, of course, in Pennsylvania. Josh Shapiro would be, but, but nationally.
 
I mean, to that point, John days ago weeks ago, the big donors, the elites in the party, they didn't want Biden. They also by-and-large in one Harris either, you know? And yesterday, there's a stunning announcement. Biden's out of the race. Are you surprised at how quickly all of the establishment immediately got on board?
 
KING: Yes and no? Yes, in the sense that you're right. There was a lot of unhappiness with the president and, of course, a lot of Democrats are worried because she's his vice president, Republicans can attach, attach his baggage to her. 
 
However what Democrats wanted was a candidate. They want energy. They want on the field a bunch of governors made phone calls and other people made phone calls. They realized nobody was going to beat Harris, that she had the support of the delegates, that it would be incredibly disruptive and divisive to try to take the nomination away from the woman the woman of color who was on the ticket with Biden in the primary. 
 
So Democrats have quickly coalesced, believing this is their best chance. Again, on Saturday here in Pennsylvania, they thought they had no chance today. They think just made if she's near perfect.
 
BURNETT: All right. If she's near perfect, and as you point out, so much of that, because there's so little time. 
 
John, thank you very much. In Allentown tonight in Pennsylvania, crucial battleground state. The political states are also higher than ever in another battleground state, this in the south, North Carolina, where voters tonight are also conflicted about the situation, some saying it should be them, the voters, not the party, and the delegates who get to choose President Biden's replacement. Dianne Gallagher has the latest in our voters OUTFRONT series.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In the crucial battleground state of North Carolina, there's a buzz. 
 
KIMBERLY MCGREGOR, NORTH CAROLINA VOTER: This exciting, yeah, it's exciting time.
 
GALLAGHER: And some anxiety.
 
ANGELICA BONDS, NORTH CAROLINA VOTER: We're at the mercy of time.
 
GALLAGHER: About what President Joe Biden's decision to end his campaign means for the Democratic ticket come November.
 
MCGREGOR: I think it is only fair for Kamala to step up and run because she's vice president.
 
GALLAGHER: In West Charlotte, we spoke with several voters who say they appreciate the Democrats are coalescing around Vice President Kamala Harris. 
 
MCGREGOR: I think that she has proven over the past 3.5 years that she can do the job. 
 
BONDS: I think it's a combination oh, feelings that as a Black woman, I'm excited.
 <br>[19:40:01]
 
I mean, I think this is amazing to witness history happening firsthand, but I am shock that, you know, its happening this close to the actual election.
 
GALLAGHER: Harris has spent a lot of time in the Tar Heel state recently, seven visits this year. It's home to Donald Trumps slimmest victory in 2020 and a potential Harris running mate, Governor Roy Cooper.
 
MCGREGOR: I think, you know, being that he's from North Carolina, that could possibly help.
 
GALLAGHER: Last month, the day after the CNN debate, we spoke with nearly a dozen North Carolina voters like Brian Lee, who felt Biden could not win in November.
 
BRIAN LEE, NORTH CAROLINA VOTER: You replace him with just someone younger. 
 
GALLAGHER: So how's he feeling today? 
 
LEE: I feel more optimistic. I think Vice President Harris is so great representation of the ideas of the Democrats the Democratic Party has been. She's a better shot at beating Trump than Biden does. 
 
GALLAGHER: But Jerrel Cuevas wishes it was voters, not the party choosing Biden's replacement. 
 
JERREL CUEVAS, NORTH CAROLINA VOTER: It's tough. There's not a time for anybody to really garner attention. I wish that I made this decision a year ago, because while he will vote for Harris, he's not so sure others will do the same. 
 
CUEVAS: I don't know how independents and former Republican feel about her.
 
GALLAGHER: Like Djovan Henriques, an unaffiliated voter who is not a fan of Harris.
 
DJOVAN HENRIQUES, NORTH CAROLINA VOTER: I think the unfortunate truth is, she has a lot of baggage in her record, on her record and that is what I think is going to stop a lot of people from voting for her.
 
GALLAGHER: And says that pushes him away from the Democratic ticket. 
 
HENRIQUES: But I think voting third party is definitely an option, especially at this point. 
 
GALLAGHER: Still, Stephanie Sneed, a school board member, thinks Harris is already showing that she can reach previously disengaged voters who were not excited about a Trump-Biden rematch. 
 
MCGREGOR: And if you just look at what people are talking about, what's on the news side or was on social media, how much money has been raised in less than two 24 hours, like that's amazing. So that is a demonstration of the she has the ability to reach people that weren't being reached before.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GALLAGHER (on camera): Now every voter we spoke with today, the undecided, the skeptical, even super fan Vice President Kamala Harris said, its not going to be easy in North Carolina. 
 
She's going to have put work in on the ground and earn not expect votes if she is the Democratic nominee. You were talking with John earlier about this time crunch. Nowhere is it more pronounced than in North Carolina where they start sending out absentee ballots for the general election, on September 6th. Erin, that is just 46 days away. And I'll tell you, I've covered the state for years. Usually we get at least one or two ballots returns that same day. So it's go time here.
 
BURNETT: Wow, that's amazing. You say just days. 
 
All right, thank you so much, Dianne, in North Carolina. 
 
Next, why this one line from a speech, Kamala Harris gave is now everywhere.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: You think you just fell out of a coconut tree?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: Plus, I'll talk to Harris, his longtime pastor. He has known the vice president for 25 years and was one of the first people she called yesterday. What did she say then? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:46:31]
 
BURNETT: Breaking news, Kamala Harris touting her record as a prosecutor, telling staffers in her first visit to headquarters since Biden dropped out of the race, quote, I know Donald Trump's type. The vice president quickly securing endorsements from Democrats across the countr.
 
Sunlen Serfaty is OUTFRONT.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRIS: It is my intention to go out and earn this nomination, and to win.
 
SUNLEN SERFATY, CNN WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Vice President Kamala Harris seizing the reins of the moment.
 
HARRIS: We have 106 days until Election Day. And in that time we have some hard work to do. 
 
SERFATY: Moments after President Biden called her to say he was stepping aside, Harris launching into action, working the phones for ten hours to trigger her deep network of support.
 
HARRIS: It's a very special experience to have been, as we all know, a student at the Mecca. SERFATY: Sources telling CNN that she made those calls, some of the most important calls of her political career in a Howard university sweatshirt.
 
HARRIS: When you walk in those rooms you carry the voice of all of us.
 
SERFATY: A small but symbolic nod to the cornerstone of the coalition. 
 
HARRIS: This sisterhood has been a part of my life since my earliest days. 
 
SERFATY: That along with the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, the nation's oldest Black sorority, is now being called on to help power her into the Oval Office.
 
STACEY JOHNSON-BATISTE, CHILDHOOD FRIEND OF KAMALA HARRIS: This fight that were up against that I know she's going to be up against is not going to be easy. 
 
SERFATY: The powerful political support within that sisterhood is one that Harris has leaned on for years.
 
JOHNSON-BATISTE: The Alphas and all of the Greeks, they're going to, they're like a family.
 
SERFATY: And seeing her through her early career as a prosecutor cuter. 
 
HARRIS: It's what's happening on a street corner that is plaguing the neighborhood.
 
SERFATY: And then to the U.S. Senate.
 
HARRIS: I am a career prosecutor. I've visited many prisons and jails. That is a prison. 
 
SERFATY: Meantime in the time since Biden's announcement, Harris is getting a boost from social media. As some Republicans so are highlighting Harris-isms as a negative.
 
HARRIS: What can be unburdened by what has been.
 
SERFATY: The memes are also attracting attention from new, younger voters, bringing new energy to even old moments. 
 
Harris quoting her mother last year --  
 
HARRIS: You think you just fell out of a coconut tree? 
 
SERFATY: Now, becoming something of a rallying cry for her campaign with senators and supporters posting coconut trees as signs of support.
 
And pop singer Charli XCX declaring Kamala is brat, a reference to the singer's latest album and viral meme of the summer.
 
But Harris's campaign quickly embracing and running with the vibe.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SERFATY (on camera): And one column on the many of the calls that Harris made over that ten hour period of time yesterday was to her pastor from San Francisco. This is someone who has been in her life for many, many years. And we are told this is one of the very first call she made and that they're to spend some time praying together, Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Sunlen, thank you. 
 
OUTFRONT now, Reverend Amos Brown, Kamala Harris's longtime pastor at Third Baptist Church in San Francisco. He has known the vice president for 25 years. 
 
A quarter century, obviously, you have known her through stony stages of her life and career, Reverend Brown, and you are one of the first people the Vice President Harris call yesterday from her residence.
 <br>[19:50:12]
 
What did she say when you answered the phone he always said what you call me. 
 
REV. AMOS BROWN, PASTOR TO HARRIS: As she always said when she call me, she said, I'm calling my pastor because I want you to pray with me and pray for Doug and for this nation. And I was very pleased after exchanging pleasantries with her my wife and I joined in prayer. Most of all for this nation that needs more than just perhaps, it needs practical participation delivers from incivility division and in some instances, downright meanness. 
 
We can do better than that in America. We're supposed to be showing the world how to do things in a right way, and I trust that the citizenry will open up. Its hot mind soul and spirit, that we will do the right thing this fall by electing to the presidency of this nation one person who can bring enlightment, empathy, encouragement, engagement, excellence, and then empowerment to all peoples and all means all.
 
BURNETT: So, Reverend, when you obviously have known her for so long, you got this call, you know she is now running for president. Obviously, you support that -- she had posted a picture actually earlier this year of the two of you together at one of your visits to the White House. And last year, she posted it another picture of you writing about you he remains a source of inspiration to me. 
 
You know, always - in your, in your conversation yesterday, were you able to give her any advice because this is a crucial moment in history and unprecedented moment in history?
 
BROWN: Yes because Churchill said at Howard School to some students and the shoulders address of his life, never give up, never give up on yourself, never give up on you faith and never give up on having an American people who do justice love mercy, and walk on live with their maker or their God.
 
BURNETT: So, Reverend, you knew her Vice President Harris's mother. Obviously, who has passed away you know, in a moment like this so one would think of their parents, or think of their mother, right? And, of course, she doesn't have that. What do you think her mother would think about her daughter, right now, in this moment? About to be the Democratic nominee, almost certain to be the Democratic nominee for president, for the United States of America as the first Black woman to be that.
 
BROWN: I believe that she was reminded her again that she should make sure that she would reside in such an effective way that she would not become the last Black woman to be in that high office, had to always never forget where she came from, and remember that she was in office to serve the common good.
 
BURNETT: All right. Well, Reverend Brown, I so much appreciate your time. Thank you for joining me and sharing this with all of people, of everyone watching. 
 
BROWN: Well, thank you for the opportunity of sharing.
 
BURNETT: And OUTFRONT next, bipartisan outrage, as furious lawmakers tore into the head of the Secret Service tonight demanding a resignation.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:56:52]
 
BURNETT: Tonight, lawmakers from both parties calling on Secret Service Director Kimberly Cheatle to resign after a really testy hearing, language inappropriate. The director revealing that the agency was warned of a suspicious person at the Trump rally between two and five times before Trump was shot. 
 
Whitney Wild is OUTFRONT.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REP. ANDY BIGGS (R-AZ): I call upon you to resign today, today. 
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In a contentious Capitol Hill hearing, United States Secret Service Director Kimberly Cheatle found few allies. Now bipartisan calls for her to resign as House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer, who called her agency --  
 
JAMES COMER (R-KY): The face of competence.
 
WILD: And ranking member Jamie Raskin say she must leave as a first step to allowing new leadership to swiftly address this crisis and rebuild the trust. 
 
REP. RO KHANNA (D-CA): I just don't think this is partisan if you have an assassination attempt on a president, former president, or a candidate you need to resign. In the face of intense scrutiny, Director Cheatle immediately took responsibility for what she called a failure. 
 
KIMBERLY CHEATLE, U.S. SECRET SERVICE DIRECTOR: The Secret Service's solemn mission is to protect our nation's leaders on July 13 we failed as a director of the United States secret service. I take full responsibility for any security lapse of our agency. 
 
WILD: However, for more than four hours, Cheatle refused to answer even the most basic questions. Nine days after the attempted assassination of Donald Trump.
 
CHEATLE: I would have to get back to you.
 
MACE: That is a no. You're full of shit today.
 
WILD: Cheatle was asked multiple times why Secret Service agents were stationed on the roof where a gunman eventually shot Trump from a distance of less than 150 yards.
 
COMER: Can you answer why the secret of state in place, a single agent on the roof? 
 
CHEATLE: We are still looking into the advanced process and the decision is okay. 
 
COMER: Okay. 
 
WILD: Members of the committee press Cheatle for answers about why the former president was allowed to take the stage, even after she admitted the Secret Service had been notified between two and five times, police were looking for a suspicious person.
 
Cheatle repeatedly said law enforcement didn't immediately determine that person who turned out to be the shooter was a threat.
 
CHEATLE: If the detail had been passed information that there was a threat the detail would never have brought the former president out onto stage. 
 
WILD: The hearing comes as the agency admits it denied at some requests for additional security from the Trump team in the two years leading up to the rally, though Cheatle denied anything was withheld on the day of the shooting.
 
CHEATLE: For the event in Butler, there were no requests that were denied. As far as requests --  
 
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): Well, maybe they got tired of asking.
 
WILD: The chorus for her resignation has only grown louder and she was confronted at the RNC in Milwaukee.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You owe the people answers.
 
WILD: Still, Cheatle says she has no plans to leave. CHEATLE: I think that I am the best person to lead the Secret Service at this time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILD (on camera): Erin, one of the key problems here was that Director Cheatle said over and over that there were failures and there were gaps, but she was very reluctant to detail what those gaps and what those failures were. And it was very apparent especially from some lawmakers who were saying, we need these answers now, so we can course correct immediately this is a major security issue. 
 
Finally, Erin, in addition to not deal telling the gaps and the failures at some moments, she doubled down on things like resources and their thorough assessment. Back to you.
 
BURNETT: All right. Whitney, thank you very much. Just to walk back all of that. Thanks to Whitney there on Capitol Hill. 
 
And thanks so much to all of you, of course, as always for joining us. 
 
"AC360" starts now.