Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Foreign Ministers To Discuss Middle East, Ukraine; Afghanistan & Pakistan Enduring Deadly Rains & Flooding; U.S. House Set to Vote On Ukraine Aid Bill Saturday; Polish President Meets With Donald Trump. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired April 18, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:04]
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: The Trump campaign says they discussed NATO member states increasing their defense spending. They also talked about Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war.
 
And Prince William is set to resume official royal duties for the first time since his wife, the princess of Wales, announced that she was being treated for cancer. Today, the prince will visit a food bank, and then stopped by a youth center in west London.
 
The war in Gaza and concerns over an Israeli counterstrike on Iran are dominating the agenda during the G7 meeting, we just mentioned as well, leaders scrambled to prevent a wider conflict in the region, especially after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said, during a cabinet meeting Wednesday, that Israel would respond to Iran's attack as it sees fit.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  I thank our friends for their support for the defense of Israel. And I say this, both support in words and support in actions. They also have all kinds of suggestions and advice. I appreciate it, but I want to make it clear. We will make our own decisions, and the state of Israel will do everything necessary to defend itself.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER:  That message from the prime minister may be in part due to pressure from within his own coalition government, specifically, Israel's far-right finance minister, Bezalel Smotrich, who has openly called for a military response with a, quote, disproportionate toll that would rock Tehran to deter any future strikes. 
 
Meanwhile, Iran's president, Ebrahim Raisi, is warning the slightest attack by Israel on Iran will be dealt with fiercely and severely. CNN's Fred Pleitgen has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over):  Iran showing off its combat drones and missiles at a massive military parade, just days after launching hundreds at Israeli territory. Iran's president attending the event under tight security warning Israel not to strike back.
 
EBRAHIM RAISI, IRANIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  If the Zionist regime makes the slightest move to violate our territory and harm the national interests of the Islamic Republic, they must understand that they will face a severe and heavy response.
 
PLEITGEN:  Iran trying to pile the pressure on the Israelis saying its waves of drones and missiles requiring Israel to team up with the U.S., France, Britain, and Jordan to shoot most projectiles down, and Hamas is attack on October 7, last year, called Al-Aqsa storm show Israel is weak and vulnerable.
 
RAISI:  The Al-Aqsa storm operation and operation true promise crumbled the Zionist regime's aura of invincibility. It proved that the strength of the Zionist regime and its back as a comparable to the strength of a spider's web.
 
PLEITGEN:  Israel has said there will be a military response from its side, but the U.S. and other Western allies are urging limited action. The Iranians warning if the us and its Middle Eastern allies helped Israel in the attack against Iranian territory. They too will become targets for Tehran's forces. 
 
ALI BAGHERI KANI, IRANIAN DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator):  If anyone wants to support the Zionist regime in any way in this confrontation, we will target that country and its interests.
 
PLEITGEN:  Tough talk as the Middle East wait, watches and braces for what could be a further escalation de-stabilizing the entire region.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Berlin.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER:  U.S. President Joe Biden criticizing China's trade practices as he continues his campaign swing through the battleground state of Pennsylvania. On Wednesday, visited with steel workers union in Pittsburgh, the heart of America's steel industry. He called on the U.S. trade representative to consider tripling the existing 7.5 percent tariff rate on Chinese steel and aluminum. The president says he's not looking for a fight with China, just fair competition.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Because Chinese shell company produce a lot more still than China needs, it ends up dumping extra still on the global market, in unfairly low prices, and the prices are unfairly low because Chinas still companies don't need to worry about making a profit, because the Chinese government is subsidizing them so heavily. They're not competing.  They're cheating.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) FOSTER:  Well, the president also touted new efforts to crack down on China bypassing terrorists through Mexico. They'll wrap up his Pennsylvania trip where the visit to Philadelphia later today.
 
The International Monetary Fund is again warning that America is debt problem is creating problems worldwide. On Wednesday, the IMF said the soaring us debt could mean higher borrowing costs around the world, which would hurt a global financial stability. It also pointed to the loose fiscal policy in the U.S. which is driving up interest rates and the dollar. It's the second time this week, the IMF took a shot at the U.S. government. 
 <br>[04:35:02]
 
On Tuesday, it said public spending and borrowing was overheating the U.S. economy, making it harder to curb inflation. U.S. Treasury Department puts the country's debt at nearly $35 trillion.
 
Just hours after the U.S. announced it will reimpose sanctions on Venezuela, its President Nicolas Maduro said that won't stop his country's economy from growing because Venezuela doesn't need anything from anybody. The U.S. says its bringing back the sanctions after the Maduro government broke its promise to hold free and fair elections.
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon has the report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  There is a new vibe in Caracas these days, nightlife has returned after years of economic collapse.
 
This show is wild. The beer is great, there is good music. Everything is incredibly beautiful.
 
The US dollar has replaced local believers. And this year, Venezuela's economy is poised to grow more than Argentina, Brazil and Colombia according to the IMF. Only one person seems to remain unmovable. 
 
As a new presidential election looms, Nicolas Maduro seems all but assured to cement his position even further. On Wednesday, the U.S. announced the reimposition of economic sanctions against the Venezuelan oil industry after last minute negotiations collapsed.
 
The sanctions were lifted in October when representatives of the government and the opposition signed an agreement that paved the way to free and fair elections. But since then, that deal was broken several times. The opposition candidate, Maria Corina Machado, has been barred from running. Her replacement, Corina Joris, was also blocked by electoral authorities.
 
Political activists have been detained including members of Machado's team. Notably the U.S. maintained a special license for U.S. major Chevron, who has been operating since 2022. And U.S. officials told CNN they will keep engaging with Maduro despite the reaction. NICOLAS MADURO, VENZUELAN PRESIDENT (through translation):  If you want to hurt us, you'll get hurt. We will grow with or without a license. We are not a Yankee colony, nobody will stop us.
 
POZZEBON:  Renewed sanctions could hurt Venezuela's recent economic growth, its forecasts and push more Venezuelans to seek better fortunes abroad. Venezuelan migrants are already reaching the U.S. southern border in record numbers. There are over 7.7 million worldwide according to the U.N. 
 
One reason for last year's detained was to bring those numbers down, particularly during an election year in the U.S.
 
LAURA DIB, VENEZUELA PROGRAM DIRECTOR, WASHINGTON OFFICE ON LATIN AMERICA:  I do think that the engagement is indeed a better policy than maximum pressure and isolation that led Maduro to further deepen his relationship with governments like China, Russia, Iran and Turkey. But rather I think that it's a proof that, of course, the US and the international community and, of course, the opposition in Venezuela is dealing with an authoritarian government.
 
POZZEBON:  With opposition in Caracas is scrambling to rally around any viable candidate to challenge Maduro, experts will read this week's fallout will only bring the Venezuelan struggle for democracy closer to its end. And the music will fade once again in Caracas. 
 
Stefano Pozzebon, CNN, Bogota.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER:  The Georgian parliament is one step closer to approving the controversial foreign agents bill that passed the first of three readings on Wednesday. The bill requires foreign funded nongovernmental organizations and media to register as agents of foreign influence. The ruling Georgian Dream Party reintroduced the bill after it was delayed a year due two weeks of protests. Critics called the bill the Russian law, comparing it to legislation can use by Russia to silence and threatened dissidents. Thousands of protesters have gathered outside parliament this week to denounce the bill.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIORGI BEKURASHVILI, RESIDENT:  I hope that we will show the power of free people. That we will not give up and I hope it will make them to decide to take this unacceptable legislation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER:  Georgia's President Salome Zourabichvili says shell veto that controversial bill that she joins me now from Tbilisi. 
 
Thank you so much for your time. Appreciate you joining us.
 
Just explain for our audience where you stand on this bill, whether you think it's a good idea or bad idea and why. SALOME ZOURABICHVILI, GEORGIAN PRESIDENT:  It's a terrible idea because as Georgian society has clearly demonstrated by working on the streets, it is a Russian law. It is an exact duplicate of the Putin law that was adopted a few years ago, and then complemented in order to crush the civil society, the nongovernmental organizations. 
 <br>[04:40:05]
 
What happens here is that last year, this law was tested, it didn't go through and we got the candidate status to the European Union, thanks to the demonstration of the populations. Now, we are one step closer to the European Union because at the end of the year, we could have the opening of the negotiations for the integration to the European Union, and that is a very important step. 
 
So Russia now is starting its hybrid strategy. He's very reinvigorating it. And it's trying to stop us on that road, helped obviously, by the authorities today.
 
FOSTER:  In terms of the numbers, if the Dream Party can get enough politicians to back this bill and push it through, what can you do to block it?
 
ZOURABICHVILI:  Well, as was said, I can veto, but it's more of a symbolic to each other since they can oversee it with the same number of votes, which they have, so the question is now to attract the attention of our partners because its also aiming at the partners its at all the international organizations that are working with Georgia since its independence, that have really been the strongest support, of our institutions, of our roll towards democracy and roll towards Euro Atlantic integration. 
 
So it's really a geopolitical war, but the soft war, that's the military reward that you see in Ukraine but another type that Russia also knows how to model with this type of soft power -- soft being in brackets.
 
FOSTER:  Which partners you talking about that have the authority to use this soft power over the ruling party?
 
ZOURABICHVILI:  No, it's a Russian soft power I'm talking about. Russia has been in this country using more and more of its propaganda. We have a lot of Russian migrants that are in the country that I'm not really controlled. And Russia is known this country for having exerted its imperial control over Georgia for many years and two centuries. 
 
So, we have been in the same situation as you create it. We have to occupy the territories, so now Russia is trying to keep Georgia under its influence. It also sees that Armenia is joining the club of the Caucasian states that want to move towards Europe. 
 
So it's really for Russia geostrategic geopolitical struggle.
 
FOSTER:  As you're trying to work with, to try to counter the Russian influence -- I mean, which countries would have that authority over Georgia and try to stop this bill? ZOURABICHVILI:  As I've said, we are candidate country to the European
 
 Union. So very close to the negotiations process that Ukraine and Moldova have started. We are very close ties with the European Union and all Georgians feel themselves as Europeans 80 percent of the population constantly over the past 30 years, it declared that it wants to join European Union, and the Atlantic community. 
 
And that is something that nothing has changed, not even the war in 2007, not even the occupation of territories, the determination of the population is entire and will not change. And that is his determination that will bring us to the elections in October of this year. And I'm sure that luck like last year, we finally got to the candidate status to the European union this year also, we will get this type of negotiations with the European Union. 
 
And I think that we can count, I'm sure, we can count on the support also, our American partners that whichever party is in power for the last 30 years have been steadily supporting Georgian democracy, and Georgian joining its Western partners.
 
FOSTER:  But as you've outlined, this is a choice here, isn't it? This bill is really symbolic of a choice about whether Georgia leans towards Europe and America or towards Russia. And it's pretty clear that the Georgian government is steering towards Russia. 
 
So any arguments that the Americans or Europeans make probably wont have much influence on this bill is going to get through and your vetoes going to be voted out as well.
 
ZOURABICHVILI:  Yes. But what is clear is that the Jordan population will never let a government that is clearly progression continued to be its government, because its going against its major existential choice that Georgia has always made over centuries of its history, and that will not change. 
 <br>[04:45:05]
 
FOSTER:  What's your concern about the reaction if this bill is pushed through? We've always had three nights of these mass demonstrations, but also a huge amount of very well-armed police out. What's your concern about how people will react? 
 
And is there any -- is there full support within the military, within the police for the government? Is there a point at which they may be convinced not to crack down so hard on the protesters?
 
ZOURABICHVILI:  I think that they are, as any other Georgia citizen, they have children that wants to go and study in Europe and the United States. They are themselves one family out of three has contacts and relatives in Europe or in the United States. So this country is already in the West in many -- so I don't think that well see here scenes of violence. 
 
I think that the population is very peaceful. What we have seen in the recent three days are massive, but very peaceful demonstration with many young people that were chanting and dancing. I'm sure that it will continue. 
 
It is a trend. It will have to be -- it's trying to become a strategy, and it has to be aimed at the next election. We do not need it this country anymore of a row or radical solutions this country has to remain stable and we have to win in the elections, our road to Europe. That will be the theme of the elections, Russia or Europe?
 
And there is no doubt in my mind what Georgia will choose.
 
FOSTER:  President Salome Zourabichvili, thank you so much for sparing your time and speaking to us today. 
 
ZOURABICHVILI:  Thank you.
 
FOSTER:  Just had, we'll tell you about a game show in Bangladesh that rewards players not with money, but with food.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER:  A popular tourist destination is central Mexico is at risk of disappearing. Lake Patzcuaro was lost more than half, or has lost more than half of its volume since authorities started tracking its falling water levels and people flocked to the lake during the November Day of the Dead festivities. Authorities say a combination of factors is causing the late to dry out, including drought, deforestation, and water theft. 
 
Climate change, known for hurting the planet and causing health problems of course, but a new report says it will also make us poorer. A study from the Potsdam Institute of Climate Impact Research says a short-term financial gut punch is inevitable but all these devastating heat waves, floods, and wildfires will result in about 19 percent reductions in global income over the next 26 years.
 
The study warns the expected economic hit won't be spread evenly. The poor will be harmed more.
 <br>[04:50:02]
 
South Asia and Africa could see a 22 percent plunge and income in Europe and North America, the drop is forecast at 11 percent. 
 
Bangladesh has made major strides in reducing chronic hunger. But during the COVID-19 pandemic at worst, and not just in Bangladesh, but around the world. That's when a one show runner stepped in, providing food through what some people call the hunger games. 
 
CNN's Kristie Lu Stout explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRSITIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  From the far-flung corners rule or Bangladesh, an unlikely Internet sensation is making quite a splash billions of views and counting and millions of subscribers. This is the SSP challenge, often called "The Hunger Games" with the
 
 social twist, its also reminiscent of another global rage. Takeshi's castle, an epic game show from Japan, in which players overcome obstacles to win.
 
Well, the comparisons are inevitable. The beginnings of SS food challenge are rooted in necessity rather than the soul thrill of it.
 
OMAR SUNNY SOMRAT, CREATOR, SS FOOD CHALLENGE:  The journey of SS food challenge started in 2020. But when inflation hits in Bangladesh and the price of edible items go so high, it was a vital topic. 
 
When we come with the idea of giving edible items as reward.
 
STOUT:  Rising living costs have been a sore point for Bangladesh, a country where around a fifth of its over 170 million people live below the poverty line. 
 
RUCHIR DESAI, FUND MANAGER, ASIA FRONTIER:  Inflation has been pretty high with the last few years, for multiple factors, its combination of the war on Ukraine, high commodity prices, and high fuel prices in 2022 and also removal of medicine. 
 
Many subsidies linked to domestic consumption such as fuel and keep cooking gas in 2023.
 
STOUT:  The ripple effects are still quite evident. 
 
MOHAMMAD BABLU, RICKSHAW PULLER IN BANGHLADESH:  We are barely surviving with prices of everything going up. I struggled to balance between buying rice, and lentils and my children's expenses. You can't fix this dilemma.
 
STOUT:  This is where the SS Food Challenge steps in, a silver lining to a very dark cloud. A source of entertainment in grim times, with social welfare at its core.
 
SOMRAT:  My biggest challenge is to control the crowd. Everyone want to participate the games. But in a -- in a game day, I can only allow 120 or at most, 150 people.
 
STOUT:  Yet, backed by a tiny team in the 25, a simple phone camera and zero sponsors this venture, managers to keep the calm on-site -- while taking the online world by storm. At the same time, ensuring that no participants even those who lose leave empty handed 
 
Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER:  Ahead, why famous set of steps nickname the Stairway to Heaven will soon be no more? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:55:00] FOSTER:  The Dream Team is back. USA basketball unveiled its all star roster for the men's team ahead of the summer Olympics in Paris. 
 
L.A. Lakers superstar and two-time gold medalists, LeBron James, will anchor the team. He's returning for his fourth Olympic games. Joining him is the NBA's reigning MVP, Joel Embiid, who decided to make his Olympic debut for the us over his native Cameroon, or indeed France. 
 
The rest of the lineup is stacked with future Hall of Famers and stars including Steph Curry, Kevin Durant and Anthony Davis.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GRANT HILL, MANAGING DIRECTOR, USA BASKETBALL MEN'S NATIONAL TEAM: These guys are excited to play with one another. The respect the mutual respect they have a chance to be on the same side, all of them have expressed outside of the off for them, that will serve as well.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER:  And what would the Olympics be without artistic swimming. We've got a small taste of it here in London's Covent Garden on Wednesday. The former members of the UK Olympic swim team performed routines to music and the temporarily installed pool. 
 
Olympic medalist Laura Kenny, who confirmed her retirement from cycling earlier this year, was there. She says the games bring everyone together.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAURA KENNY, FORMER OLYMPIC GOLD MEDAL WINNING CYCLIST:  You know, the one, thing that the Olympics gives that no ever gives is the kind of the community. The fact that it brings so many people in one place at one time and it will be anyone and everyone. Like I remember London 2012 and walk around the streets and everyone was talking to each other and it had this real kind of like family aspect to it. And that's what I would say the Olympics brings bucket brings that kind of like everyone's united. And that's actually what I'm looking forward to it. 
 
There's no sort of set event as such. It's just the buzz like the Olympic buzz. You don't get that around any other sporting event.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER:  Hawaii's Haiku Stairs, best known as "The Stairway to Heaven", will soon be torn down. The landmark is a popular attraction due to picturesque staircase leading to what many locals consider to be the best view in all of Hawaii. 
 
The stairs are being closed to the public since 1987. Still, city officials say tourists have continued to visit the site. It despite the dangerous terrain, the removal will begin later this month. Pretty scary walk. Finally engineers are pulling the plug on a robot that's become a social media sensation. Atlas as the robot is called is going into retirement because experts say they've built a new and better version. But before they bid him goodbye, they put up this video showing his physicals skills, but also his slips trips and falls, and other missteps.
 
Thanks for joining me here on CNN NEWSROOM.  I'm Max Foster in London.
 
"CNN THIS MORNING" is here after a quick break.