Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Rep. Dan Meuser (R-PA) is Interviewed about Harris' Interview; Michael Smerconish Talks about Trump and Harris; Trump Promises Free IVF. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired August 30, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[06:30:00] 
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: For groceries are still too high. The American people know it. I know it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN ANCHOR: How the vice president says she will help Americans who are hurting in the post-Covid economy.
 
Plus, why the candidates are paying so much attention to the city of Erie, Pennsylvania.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am running because I believe that I am the best person to do this job at this moment for all Americans, regardless of race and gender.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[06:35:06]
 
RAJU: All right, Kamala Harris sitting down for her first interview since taking President Biden's place at the top of the Democratic ticket. She spoke with CNN's Dana Bash about her rapid ascent, offering her most detailed explanation to date on why she's reversed course on some of her policy positions, including on issues like fracking.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: As vice president I did not ban fracking. As president I will not ban fracking.
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR: In 2019, I believe in a town hall, you said - you were asked, "would you commit to implementing a federal ban on fracking on your first day in office?" And you said, "there's no question, I'm in favor of banning fracking." So, yes. So, it changed in that - in that campaign?
 
HARRIS: In 2020 I made very clear where I stand. We are in 2024 and I've not changed that position nor will I going forward. I kept my word, and I will keep my word.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Now, Harris' original stance on fracking could have proven politically damaging in Pennsylvania, in that must-win state, where that process for fuel - fossil fuel extraction is a major issue. And, of course, that is a must win for her, or Trump, as they battle for the White House.
 
And the latest polling out of the state chose Harris is outpacing Trump 50 to 47.
 
Joining me now, Pennsylvania Republican Congressman Dan Meuser, who joins me from Pennsylvania.
 
Congressman, it's nice to see you. Thank you so much for joining me early this morning. 
 
I suppose the - on this issue of fracking, you don't quite by her explanation. But, look, she and Joe Biden, they did not ban fracking when they were in the White House over the last several years. Do you think, though, that voters may give her a pass on this. May say, fine, she's changed her position and she doesn't support banning fracking.
 
REP. DAN MEUSER (R-PA): Hey, Manu. Great being with you. 
 
Yes, I mean, certainly last night it appears she avoided a train wreck and, frankly, some of the follow-up questions and really no - I don't mean to criticize, were just nonexistent, particularly on fracking. So, what made the vice president change her mind? You know, that's a fair question. And then, what is your energy plan? Do you have an understanding of what the energy needs and demands are of the United States, and how does natural gas, particularly from Pennsylvania, or anywhere in the U.S., how does domestic energy work into that? 
 
And see, that's the biggest thing I think, that there was really no - there was no detail. I think they spoke about energy for maybe 30 seconds. They covered the border for about two-and-a-half minutes. The economy was about two minutes as well. I think the American people just have a real trust issue with the vice president. We certainly do in Pennsylvania. We can get into some of those details. Clearly a make-over is underway. Some people refer to that as a big con taking place. And primarily people are worried about out -
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
RAJU: But she's - right, but she's leading - but she's - but she's - but she's leading in Pennsylvania according to the polls. That has to concern you, doesn't it?
 
MEUSER: Well, well, well, because she hasn't done an interview, right? Last night was the first (TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY). They don't know (TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY) Vice President Harris is. We're going to do everything to make sure that (TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY) very informed on where she stands on spending (ph), on the border (ph), (TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY) on inflation. How is that going to be handled. (TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY) on firearms. OK, firearms matter to Republicans and Democrats throughout the country, as well as what she said she's going have a mandatory buyback. What happened with Afghanistan? Why the issues with Israel? I mean, she's got to - right now it's a plan for Biden not just 2.0, but Biden 4.0. So -
 
RAJU: Congressman, I do want to ask you about another notable moment from that interview. She was asked about Donald Trump's comments about her race, about her, quote, "turning black." That's what Donald Trump had set up about her. Watch what she had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR: What I want to ask you about is what he said last month. He suggested that you happened to turn black recently for political purposes, questioning a core part of your identity.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Yes.
 
BASH: Any -
 
HARRIS: Same old, tired playbook. Next question, please.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: And, Congressman, as you advise Donald Trump going forward, do you think that he should stay away, steer clear from raising questions about her racial identity?
 
MEUSER: You know, I can't really speak to that. I'm not sure what even context that the president was - the former president was going there. I don't think there's any question a policy debate on the border. Why is the vice president, Kamala Harris, for amnesty? How in the world do you think that's a good thing? How do you think it's a good thing that 3 million illegals have - are crossing the border this year and they're claiming to have some control. How can you just blame it on some legislation that would have done nothing, Manu? 
 <br>[06:40:01]
 
You know this. We talk in Washington. OK, that was like investing in more buckets and not stopping the flooding. All that - all that legislation was going to do was increase CBP so as processing and resettlements could take place. It was not going to fix a problem. It was done to fix a political problem. So, that's nonsense in my book and it's nonsense in the American people's book. 
 
We've got serious problems. I was with a state trooper last night who says all he's pulling over is illegals who don't have licenses and don't have insurance. OK, so - so we got real problems with our economy and our - our national security and our border and our energy policy. And last night we certainly didn't hear any solutions to those.
 
RAJU: And - yes, as you know, Congressman, that bill, of course, was drafted by a conservative Republican senator, James Lankford, along with Democrats. He would disagree with your contention there, but that's a discussion for - for another time. 
 
I do want to ask you about another controversy the Trump campaign has been dealing with, and that's this incident that occurred at Arlington National Cemetery where earlier this week the former president was marking the anniversary of the Abbey Gate attack in Afghanistan. The family of a deceased veteran has expressed how upset they were with Trump for - for their - and questions about whether that appearance was actually legal and whether it violated all international cemetery rules. That Army, of course, as you know, rebuked the Trump campaign yesterday for taking that video and photographing that off-limit area of Arlington National Cemetery.
 
Do you think the Trump campaign should acknowledge that they did something wrong here? 
 
MEUSER: Listen, Manu, we care a lot about our veterans in Pennsylvania. We care very much for those in - on active duty. And, frankly, to the earlier question, you know, in Pennsylvania, we voted for Obama in an overwhelming way. It is truly about content of character from my constituents and for the vast, vast, vast majority of Pennsylvanians. And certainly not the color of the skin or somebody's origins. 
 
And what happened yesterday, look, come on. I mean this is - this is a - media exploiting whatever - whatever occurred there. It's nonsense. It's meaningless. We've got serious issues. We've got - we've got hostages held in Gaza. We've got a Ukrainian war that the American people are asked to pay $150 billion for that the Biden-Harris administration barely even talks about. They don't talk about the hostages. They don't talk about fentanyl killing our young, particularly young Americans. We've got serious issues. That's a sideshow what occurred there.
 
RAJU: All right Congressman Dan Meuser of Pennsylvania, Republican, thank you so much for joining me this morning. Appreciate you sharing your views. 
 
MEUSER: Thank you.
 
RAJU: And straight ahead on CNN THIS MORNING, more from Kamala Harris' sit down interview with CNN's Dana Bash. What she said about that fateful phone call between her and President Biden when he told her he was dropping out of the race. 
 
Plus, Donald Trump defends his photo op at Arlington, as the U.S. Army issues a sharp criticism of his actions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: So, I go there. They ask me to have a picture. And they say I was campaigning. I don't need - the one thing I get is plenty of publicity. I don't need that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:47:32]
 
RAJU: All right, 46 minutes past the hour. So, here's your morning roundup.
 
Donald Trump, once again, looking to get his hush money case in New York moved to federal court. In a new motion filed this week, Trump's lawyers argued his sentencing for the convictions should be put on hold while the appeal plays out. Sentencing is set for September 18th.
 
Steve Bannon asking a judge for an early release from prison while he continues to challenge his contempt of Congress conviction. The former Trump aide is serving a four month sentence for defying a congressional subpoena. He's set to be released October 29th.
 
We now know when Boeing's Starliner spacecraft will return to earth, empty, without its crew. NASA says it will leave the International Space Station next Friday, but Butch Wilmore and Suni Williams will remain on board until at least February of next year.
 
And we are tracking the ongoing saga about what happened at Arlington National Cemetery this week between the Trump campaign and workers there. On Monday, Trump was invited to the cemetery by some of the families of the 13 service members who died in a suicide bombing during that chaotic evacuation of Afghanistan three years ago. He attended a wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldiers. 
 
Then the families brought the former president to Section 60, a part of Arlington for fallen veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan wars are buried. Here, photography is much more restricted. A cemetery workers stepped in to stop campaign officials from filming, leading to an incident. Now the Army -- leading to this incident which the Army says, quote, "participants in the August 26th ceremony and the subsequent Section 60 visit were made aware of federal laws, Army regulations, and DOD policies which clearly prohibit political activities on cemetery grounds. An ANC employee who attempted to ensure adherence to these rules was abruptly pushed aside. This incident was unfortunate."
 
In response, Trump campaign manager Chris LaCivita posting on X, calling Army leadership hacks. Trump also defended his visit during a campaign rally.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: They asked me to have a picture and they say I was campaigning. I don't need -- the one thing I get is plenty of publicity. I don't need that. I don't need the publicity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) RAJU: All right, with us now on this Friday, CNN political commentator Michael Smerconish. Of course, he is the host of CNN's "SMERCONISH."
 
Michael, it's so good to see you on this Friday morning. 
 
So, what is your take on this controversy? 
 <br>[06:50:01]
 
Do you think it will have any impact on this campaign? 
 
MICHAEL SMERCONISH, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Manu, great to see you as well. 
 
My take on this is that I think it's great that the president accompanied the gold-star families in Section 60, that he would go, that he would -- he would pay homage on the anniversary of losing 13. That -- that's all terrific. And the fact that they wanted photographs taken with him for their personal use and purpose, that's a good thing as well. I get it. I think we want to do more things like that. 
 
The problem is that the video then gets used for a political purpose, and that's totally at odds with the standard, the law that would apply to Arlington and other sacred ground. So, it never should have ended up in TikTok. And for that he needs to be held accountable. 
 
But I don't want to send the wrong message. You know, the message is one of revering American heroes, but there was a line crossed here. In my mind there's no doubt.
 
RAJU: And a very rare statement from the Army to put out that statement rebuking the Trump campaign. Really remarkable to see there. 
 
But I do want to switch gears to, of course, that big interview last night, the Harris-Walz interview. What do you think, Michael, did she accomplish what she needed to do given the stakes of the interview and people waiting for this sit-down to actually occur, to hear from the Democratic nominee for the first time in a sit down like this? How do you think she performed? And this - is this what the campaign needed? 
 
SMERCONISH: So, I think the headline today is that there is no headline, right? That there was really no news made from the event other than the fact that it occurred after her being, you know, the Democratic candidate for there about a month. She achieved her purpose, which is that the two of us right now are not discussing any viral video. Hypocrite oath, first rule, do no harm. It applies to politics. There was not a stumble that everybody is pointing to today. That's a good thing for her. Did she resolve questions about her ability to think in real time, on her feet, unscripted? I don't think entirely that she did. 
 
Bottom line is, it's a Rorschach test and partisans are going to look at it and find in it whatever they wanted to find in it.
 
RAJU: And how do you think she should handle her media strategy going forward? Should she do more sit-downs, or, you know, if you're - and obviously as reporters, we want her to sit down and talk and answer questions. Really every day she should and she should answer voters' questions. But if you're a political strategist, perhaps you want to prevent those viral moments from happening. How do you see this playing out in the weeks ahead? 
 
SMERCONISH: I don't think she's been accessible to the extent that she owes it to the American people. I think she has an obligation, running for the highest office in the land, to make herself available to journalists and to voters.
 
Having said that, if I were whispering in her ear as a campaign strategist, to your question, I guess I'd say, continue to do what you're doing because it appears to be working for her. But at some point, I think she's got an obligation to take more questions in real time from voters. Townhalls, for example, like Donald Trump did last night.
 
RAJU: Yes, and we'll see if she decides to do just that. 
 
Michael Smerconish, thank you so much for sharing your views. Always good to see you. Remember to tune in.
 
SMERCONISH: Thanks, Manu.
 
RAJU: Of course - tomorrow, 9:00 a.m. Eastern for "SMERCONISH" right here on CNN. 
 
Turning now to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I'm announcing today, in a major statement, that under the Trump administration, your government will pay for, or your insurance company, will be mandated to pay for all costs associated with IVF treatment, fertilization for women, IVF treatment. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Now, Donald Trump, who boasted about his role in overturning Roe v. Wade, now turning somewhat more moderate on the issue of reproductive rights. And in addition to promising free IVF treatments and tax deductions for newborn expenses, not exactly saying how they'll be paid for, but the former president also softening his stance on abortion rights, signaling he is leery about Florida's six- week abortion ban. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This has to be more time. And so that's - and I've told them that I want more weeks.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So, you'll vote in favor of the amendment?
 
TRUMP: I'm - I'm voting that - I am going to the voting that we need more than six weeks.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Now, his campaign made it clear, they tried to walk that back a little bit, saying he had not make a decision on how this vote in the referendum will occur in Florida, how he will vote as a Florida voter. 
 
But you, Brad, what do you think about him trying to change his possession a bit, if you will, or moderate its position a bit on some of these key reproductive right issues. It must - they must be seeing some polling that they're concerned about. 
 
BRAD TODD, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: I think the fact that he's leading on IVF is pretty important. You know, Dave McCormick, who's running in Pennsylvania, has already proposed a $15,000 tax - refundable tax credit for anyone using IVF. I think you're going to see a lot more clarity that Republicans are fully in support of IVF because we want to help people bring babies into this world. I think that's a positive development from the Trump campaign.
 <br>[06:55:00]
 
RAJU: But they're clearly concerned that he's getting hit on this and he's got to respond. 
 
TODD: Well, Democrats said they were going to use IVF. It was going to be the new issue for them this time. But it was always wrong, because there was always pretty good consensus among Republicans to support it. And I think now you're going to see that come to light.
 
RAJU: Is this going to be an effective strategy?
 
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: OK, Republicans - Republicans who were up in arms about Kamala Harris shifting positions from her 2019 positions during the primary, like, where are you? You're so -
 
RAJU: Trump has changed a few positions over the years.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Let's - where's the intellectual consistency. I mean, no, look, this is Donald Trump, who has said time and time again how proud he is to have put three justices on the Supreme Court who overturned Roe. 
 
So, you know, the idea that he's going to throw out this policy proposal, which, by the way, the government paying for or insurance companies being mandated to pay for are two wildly different things. Anybody who lived through the Affordable Care Act fights knows those are -those are not - those are different policy proposals. So, I'm not sure this is a serious policy proposal that he's putting forward here. 
 
But more importantly from a messaging perspective, this is not going to be sufficient to erase, in voters' minds, the fact that he is responsible for where we are on reproductive freedom in this country right now. And he has bragged many, many, many times about it. And I think Democrats are going to keep reminding voters of that, they're going to keep reminding suburban women of that. And I don't think this is something that he's going to be able to walk away from. 
 
RAJU: It - speaking of women voters before you jump in, just the Quinnipiac poll, women and men, how they view Harris versus Trump. Clear sign that there's a 20 point - look, 21 point advantage that Harris has over Trump with women. Trump about, you know, a similar advantage with men. But that's, obviously, if you're in the Trump campaign, you've got to tighten that margin.
 
ALEX THOMPSON, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: I mean an historic gender gap we're seeing. And the striking thing about this is that people - reporters have been asking the Trump campaign, and Trump, about this Florida referendum for a long time. And he -
 
RAJU: Yes, he has still not said.
 
THOMPSON: And he has still not said. But now he's sort of tiptoeing and being like, well, I don't like the current policy, but - but I'm still not going to tell you exactly how I'm going to vote. 
 
The fact of the matter is, that now it does appear that he is incredibly - that the race changed with Biden dropping out and now a woman at the top of the ticket when it comes to abortion rights, especially a woman who has been on the forefront of the administration's push on abortion rights. Clearly, the fact that the did both the Florida and - the Florida referendum sort of statement, plus he's doing IVF for all has really sort of, on the same day, suggests that they need to - that they think this is - they need to close the gender gap too (ph). 
 
RAJU: And just the poll about who can handle abortion better. "The Wall Street Journal" asked that question to registered voters. A recent poll, August 24th to 28th, 20 points, Harris has the advantage over Trump. 
 
One of the handful of issues that she is leading on. But how many of those voters do you think are actually already in the Harris camp, who believe that abortion is the biggest issue that they're voting on?
 
MATT BROWN, NATIONAL RACE AND POLITICS REPORTER, "THE ASSOCIATED PRESS": The question here is going to be not whether voters trust Harris necessarily more on abortion here, but whether that's going to be the defining issue for them, which is what Trump is trying to do here by coming out with IVF for all, as you say, to make the issue less salient here, to make it a bit more money on which person is going to, you know, be more in your interest on questions of reproductive rights. 
 
When Republicans are seen as, you know, coming at a question that a lot of women are deeply alienated by, that becomes the most salient question and it becomes what is going to, you know, move them into Harris' camp. Whereas if, you know, this is a bit of a question where, you know, the Republican Party is divided on this internally, it's going to be interesting to see if they'll be able to have the message discipline as a party to convey this. But if they - if they can, then it might be that the economy or immigration, or other issues are going to be the top thing that people will be voting on instead. RAJU: Yes. I will say, one of the more personal moments from
 
 yesterday's interview with Kamala Harris, the Democratic nominee reflected on her conversation with President Biden when he broke the news her that he was ending his presidential bid. Harris went on to commend Biden for not only his accomplishments in office, but also praise his character.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think history is going to show not only has Joe Biden lead an administration that has achieved those extraordinary successes, but the character of the man is one that he has been, in his life and career, including as a president, quite selfless and puts the American people first.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: How does she navigate trying to be the change candidate, but also being the incumbent vice president?
 
BEDINGFIELD: Well, I thought she did it quite definitely, actually, because she really defined - we were talking about this a little bit at the top of the show, but she really defined change as a change from the ugly politics of Trump and what we've seen as we've seen in our politics corrode over the last decade. And I thought she was smart about kind of setting that up as the changed dynamic, while also saying Joe Biden has served honorably. I've been proud to serve with him. He's a man of character. I think she did a good job not looking like she was in a moment of political opportunity going to walk away from somebody who, look, I was there. I saw them. They had a really productive governing partnership and - and a good friendship. 
 <br>[07:00:03]
 
And so, I think that that shone through. I think when voters watched interviews like this, they're also trying to glean who is this person. And so I think what she did was demonstrate that she is a person of integrity and character who is not going to throw Joe Biden over the high side in a moment of political opportunism. So, I thought she actually handled that quite deftly.
 
RAJU: All right. I suppose Brad disagrees, but unfortunately we are out of time. We say you disagree I'm sure. 
 
TODD: Of course.
 
RAJU: Of course.
 
All right, OK, we will see. 
 
Thank you, guys, so much for joining me this morning. Thank you for watching us as well. I'm Manu Raju. "CNN NEWS CENTRAL" starts right now.