Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Flurry of Friday Night Trump Cabinet Picks; New Israeli Strikes on Beirut Kill at Least 11; Russia to Keep Testing New Ballistic Missile; Mothers of Russian Soldiers Honored in Moscow; Texas School Board Approves Bible Lesson Curriculum; Australia Moves to Ban Social Media for under 16s; Kyiv on Alert after New Russian Missile Launch; Sports Highlights. Aired 5-6a ET

Aired November 23, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from the United States and all around the world, I'm Christina Macfarlane. 
 
Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, Donald Trump releasing a flurry of cabinet level and other nominations, including another media personality, a hedge fund manager and a coauthor of Project 2025. 
 
A new round of deadly strikes in Beirut collapsing buildings and burying people in the rubble. 
 
Plus a young girl's suicide, leading one country to consider banning social media for kids. We'll examine the arguments for and against the new legislation. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Christina Macfarlane. 
 
MACFARLANE:  An avalanche of cabinet choices from Donald Trump has been announced as we head to the final weekend before the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday. Among them is Trump's anticipated pick for Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessent. 
 
Experts say he's a safe choice but Trump has also chosen a more controversial figure from his first term to lead the Office of Management and Budget. CNN's Alayna Treene has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, president-elect Donald Trump made nine new announcements Friday evening for top roles in his second term, including some of the biggest cabinet roles we had been waiting to see. 
 
And that includes Scott Bessent, a billionaire hedge fund manager, being named to run the Treasury Department. And this is really ended what has been a two week battle behind the scenes at Mar-a-Lago. 
 
One of the most contentious fights, we're told, that had played out for a role in his second term. A part of that is because one of Donald Trump's cotransition chairs, Howard Lutnick, had wanted this role for himself. He ended up getting the top role at the Commerce Department. 
 
However, this really became a protracted battle behind the scenes. Now one reason, though, we're told that Donald Trump liked Scott Bessent, which I should note he had actually been in the running for, and Donald Trump's top pick roughly two weeks ago, before all of that happened behind the scenes. 
 
But he is a name that many people on Wall Street know well. He is well liked in the business world. 
 
And many people on Donald Trump's transition team were also pushing for him and trying to get through to Donald Trump that he would be the right pick especially, because, keep in mind, Donald Trump, throughout his time on the campaign trail, made a lot of economic promises, including his vow to impose widespread tariffs. 
 
This is going to be something that Bessent is going to be confronted with on day one if he is confirmed into this role. 
 
Now another big role we learned about on Friday evening was who would be leading his budget office. And that is going to be Russell Vought. Vought also was in the top job in Donald Trump's White House budget office in his first term. 
 
But he's also been very close to Trump in the years since. If you have an idea of loyalty, Russell Vought is a picture of that. Now he has had some controversial opinions in the past as well. 
 
He was a key architect of Project 2025, something that the Trump team had vowed repeatedly that they didn't want anything to do with. Vought had also worked. He was the lead person at one of these key policy shops in Washington, D.C., in the years after he had left Donald Trump's first White House. 
 
And that policy shop was really viewed by many in Donald Trump's orbit as being the key place where people would be shaping policy and Donald Trump's future agenda if he were to be elected again in 2024 -- back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE:  Well, you may remember Donald Trump spent months on the campaign trail trying to distance himself from the controversial Heritage Foundation's Project 2025.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  I have nothing to do with Project 2025. That's out there. I haven't read it. I don't want to read it purposely. I'm not going to read it. This was a group of people that got together. They came up with some ideas. I guess some good, some bad. But it makes no difference. I have nothing to do. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE:  But now he's filling his cabinet with some of the top contributors to the 900-page political playbook, which some regard as a conservative blueprint for the new administration; namely Tom Homan for border czar, John Ratcliffe for CIA director. 
 
But he also picked Russell Vought to lead the budget office, Brendan Carr to chair the FCC and Stephen Miller for deputy chief of staff. Vought was a coauthor for the Project 2025. He was recorded on an undercover interview back in August, explaining how he hoped the project would influence Trump's second administration. 
 <br>[05:05:00]
 
RUSSELL VOUGHT, OMB CANDIDATE:  So you know, we've got about 350 different documents that are regulations and things of that nature that are -- we're planning for the next year, next administration. 
 
We're always going off of, if Donald Trump was head of this agency what would he do with it?
 
What has he said?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes. 
 
VOUGHT:  And then what we know from the first term. And that's how we've been approaching this. 
 
He's very supportive of what we do and know that we have all manner of things that we do that's, you know, even unrelated to Project 2025. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE:  Well, CNN found at least 140 people who worked in the first Trump administration had a hand in creating the project's extensive manifesto for overhauling the executive branch. And now we know at least five of those people have been selected to return in cabinet positions. 
 
Sources tell CNN Trump's pick to lead the intelligence community, Tulsi Gabbard, was briefly placed on a TSA watch list earlier this year. It appears Gabbard's overseas travel patterns and foreign connections triggered a government algorithm, which usually leads to additional security screening by air marshals before flights. 
 
But Gabbard was quickly removed from the list after she publicly claimed she had been added to a, quote, "secret terror watch list." 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. TULSI GABBARD (R-HI):  The Harris-Biden administration had added me to a secret domestic terror watch list. 
 
She had labeled me a domestic terrorist, put me on a secret domestic terror watch list. 
 
I was added to a secret domestic terror watch list called Quiet Skies.
 
My government has put me on a terror watch list. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE:  The TSA says Gabbard was placed on a little known list called Quiet Skies, which they say is most definitely not a terror watch list. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE:  Well, here to discuss all of this with me is Thomas Gift, the director of the Centre on U.S. Politics at University College London. 
 
Good to see you again, Thomas. Let's begin with the flurry of late Trump picks we saw on Friday, multiple Trump picks. 
 
Just to get your sense first, what did you make of selections like billionaire hedge fund manager Scott Bessent for Treasury Secretary and, controversially, Russell Vought, one of the key authors of Project 2025? 
 
THOMAS GIFT, DIRECTOR, CENTRE ON U.S. POLITICS, UNIVERSITY COLLEGE LONDON:  Well, thanks so much for having me, Christina. It's great to be with you. 
 
I think when you talk about all of these appointments, there's one word again that defines the Trump selections and that's loyalty -- or maybe, more specifically, fealty. 
 
You know, Trump really perceives that the main mistake he made during his first administration was relying too much on Washington insiders inside the Beltway, officials who had spent their entire careers in Washington. 
 
Many of those officials ultimately abandoned him. And so Susie Wiles, who is Trump's incoming chief of staff, is determined to run a more disciplined White House and to put individuals in key cabinet positions that are going to do largely what Trump says. 
 
I do think that the Bessent choice in particular for secretary was one that was a little bit more establishment, a little bit more kind of traditional, one that wouldn't surprise people much like Matt Gaetz did or Pete Hegseth or some of these other kind of more controversial names. 
 
MACFARLANE:  But perhaps one that is raising eyebrows, as we say, is Russell Vought, one of the key authors of Project 2025. 
 
And it appears there are actually a number of Trump picks so far who, in some way, are aligned to Project 2025. So I just want to take a moment to remind our viewers of what Trump himself was saying about that during the campaign trail. Have a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  Like some on the Right, severe Right, came up with this project 25 (sic). And I don't even know. I mean, some of them, I know who they are. But they're very, very conservative, just like you have -- they're sort of the opposite of the radical left. OK. 
 
You have the radical left and you have the radical right. They are extreme. I mean, they're seriously extreme. But I don't know anything about it. I don't want to know anything about it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE:  So I guess, Thomas, we're seeing here Trump's real ties to Project 2025 being laid bare with some of his picks. 
 
But the question is, how far do you think he will go in adopting Project 2025 proposals?
 
GIFT:  Well, you certainly understand why Donald Trump didn't want to attach himself to Project 2025 during the campaign because it took a number of right wing positions, like on abortion, for example, where Trump was trying to tack more toward the center in a general election. 
 
But I think that this does raise real questions about the extent to which this is going to be a blueprint for the Trump administration. I still think that Trump is more transactional than ideological. 
 
And so many of the kind of more right-wing positions that have been espoused in this document, which again, was written by many of Trump's associates or former Trump associates and the Heritage Foundation, which is a Republican or right-leaning think tank. 
 
I think ultimately there are going to be some things that Trump takes some that he doesn't. I think when it comes to tax cuts, for example, deregulation, all of those are included in Project 2025. And I think that they will be top of mind in Trump's first 100 days. 
 <br>[05:10:00]
 
MACFARLANE:  Yes. But there are some issues on which they diverge., of course, abortion being one of them. It'll be interesting to see if there's any shift in ground on that in his new administration. 
 
Now with Gaetz out, there are still some controversial picks left in. 
 
We were just mentioning there, Thomas, Tulsi Gabbard, who was briefly named on a TSA watch list just yesterday, which is kind of adding concern around someone who is going to be in charge of national intelligence. 
 
Someone who we already know has held strong views over backing comments from President Putin in the past, Bashar al-Assad of Syria. 
 
I mean, how is she being viewed within the Senate at this point?
 
What is -- what are your thoughts around her selection, whether she would make it through?
 
GIFT:  Well, that's a big question with Tulsi Gabbard, because, you know, she used to be a Democrat. She's obviously shifted very significantly. And some of her comments, particularly as they relate to Vladimir Putin, I think do raise eyebrows. 
 
Add to that the fact that she has no intelligence experience and is going to be expected to sort of lead national intelligence of the United States is a real question mark. This is where we come to recess appointments, you know.
 
Will Trump use them?
 
They are constitutional but they were designed when Congress met less frequently and the president needed to fill spots on an emergency basis. 
 
But still, given some of Trump's selections, he may choose to go down that route. And I think it's particularly the case for ones that, you know, are quite controversial. 
 
MACFARLANE:  Yes. And just briefly, the other Trump pick that had a sexual assault allegation against him, as well as Matt Gaetz, was Pete Hegseth. I'm curious as to whether the Republicans who signaled they were against Matt Gaetz might also use this moment to -- or feel emboldened to do the same with Pete Hegseth. 
 
What's your feeling on that?
 
GIFT:  I think that Pete Hegseth is maybe a little bit less controversial than Matt Gaetz. But still, this is all relative. I mean there's controversial. Then there's off the wall controversial. I would categorize Matt Gaetz as off the wall controversial. 
 
Pete Hegseth is still a very unorthodox choice. You know, of course, he's been a FOX News anchor, very involved in Trump's first administration, was kind of lobbying behind the scenes for U.S. service members who have been accused or convicted of war crimes. 
 
Talked to Trump on his show, "FOX and Friends." Trump would tweet back at him. So I'm not sure if this is an individual that Republicans on Capitol Hill in particular would be willing to push back. 
 
I mean maybe some of the more establishment old guard would say, this is just not our pick. We need someone who's a bit more establishment. But Trump is really coming in with a mandate. 
 
And I think it's going to be a bruising struggle and a dilemma for GOP politicians, especially given that many Republicans on Capitol Hill, you know, don't want to challenge what they perceive as just this juggernaut of Trump coming into his second term with sort of a, you know, a groundswell of support behind him. 
 
MACFARLANE:  Thomas Gaetz always great to have your analysis. Appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
GIFT:  Thanks, Christina. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE:  Now the judge in Donald Trump's criminal hush money trial in New York has postponed sentencing indefinitely. 
 
Judge Juan Merchan was also granting Trump's request to file a motion to dismiss the case. Prosecutors have a week to respond. Trump was convicted in May on 34 counts of falsifying business records to cover up hush money payments to adult film star Stormy Daniels. 
 
And although the district attorney has said the conviction should stand, a source says his office are open to a four-year pause on the case until Trump leaves office. Trump's spokesperson calls the decision a decisive win for the president-elect. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
MACFARLANE:  In Beirut right now, rescue crews are searching for survivors from an Israeli strike that hit a residential building. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE (voice-over): This is the scene in the center of the Lebanese capital. Lebanon's civil defense says at least 11 people were killed and 23 were wounded. Israel did not issue a warning strike before this -- a warning before this strike. 
 
And in another attack one building was flattened. Take a look. 
 
The Israeli military earlier issued an evacuation warning to people in this neighborhood. There are no reports of deaths or injuries from this strike. 
 
Meanwhile there's outrage in Israel over the International Criminal Court's arrest warrant for Benjamin Netanyahu. The Israeli prime minister and his former defense ministers are accused of war crimes in Gaza. CNN's Paula Hancocks is joining us live. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE:  Paula, talk to us more about this attack in central Beirut in a densely populated area. 
 
What more are you learning? 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This is in the Basta area. As you say, it is a densely populated area and it is crucially in central Beirut. More and more often now, we are seeing Israeli airstrikes targeting the central part. 
 <br>[05:15:00]
 
Before, it had been largely focused on the Hezbollah stronghold of the southern suburbs of Beirut. But more and more often, we are seeing these more central strikes. Now this particular one, we understand, according to the ministry of health, at this point, that at least 11 have been killed, dozens have been wounded. 
 
And we can see from images after the strike took place that there are ongoing efforts to try and find more survivors or more victims in the rubble itself. Now we have asked the Israeli military about this target. At this point, they have not publicly commented as to what the target was. 
 
We do understand, though, that there was no evacuation order that was issued before this particular strike. 
 
Now we also know of another strike, among many, in fact, but another worth mentioning. This was in the eastern Lebanon. This is in the Baalbek area. And we understand that the director general of Dar Amal -- Dar al Amal's -- excuse me, university was killed along with six of his colleagues. 
 
Now we understand from Lebanese officials there that they were staying in a residence close to the university and the hospital itself. The IDF says, at this point, that they are looking into the report. So we're waiting for a response of that as well. 
 
The response we have heard in previous instances from the Israeli military is that they are targeting Hezbollah infrastructure. They're targeting weapons caches and Hezbollah personnel as well. 
 
The IDF saying that, since October 8th of last year, when Hezbollah started firing rockets into Israel after the October 7th Hamas attack, that some 16,000 rockets have been fired from Lebanon. 
 
We've heard from the ministry of health, though, that they have condemned what they call the continuous attacks that do target health workers and facilities, calling on the international community to intervene. 
 
Now we're seeing strikes elsewhere as well as launches into Israel. And this is all coming at a time when there is potentially a ceasefire deal that is close between Israel and Hezbollah. We certainly heard a lot more of it about three or four days ago, when the U.S. envoy, Amos Hochstein was in Beirut. 
 
He then traveled to Israel, where he said that the deal was within our grasp. But it was ultimately the decision of the parties. And certainly at the same time as these ceasefire talks are ongoing behind the scenes, more at the moment, rather than publicly, there is this escalation in violence on both sides. Christina. 
 
MACFARLANE:  All right. Paula Hancocks there live from Abu Dhabi. 
 
Thank you, Paula. 
 
All right. Still to come, Russian president Vladimir Putin is ramping up his threats to the West while boasting about his military's new experimental missile. 
 
And CNN gets rare access to an event in Moscow, honoring mothers of Russian soldiers. How they feel about the conflict raging in Ukraine. That's just ahead.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:20:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
MACFARLANE:  President Vladimir Putin says Russia will keep testing a new experimental ballistic missile that was fired at Ukraine on Thursday. 
 
He claims the missile cannot be intercepted by air defenses, adding that Russia will begin mass producing the new system. But a military analyst tells CNN that Western air defenses would be able to shoot down warheads from Moscow's new missile.
 
The Kremlin says Thursday's strike is in response to the, quote, "reckless decisions" of Western countries that supply weapons to Kyiv. 
 
As fears of a broader European conflict grow, NATO and Ukraine are reportedly planning to hold an emergency meeting on Tuesday to discuss Moscow's strike. 
 
Meanwhile, Ukraine's air force says it shot down 64 Russian drones after more than 100 were launched on Friday. More of the drones were intercepted over the center of Ukraine and the northeastern regions. 
 
Well, Putin continues to send thousands of Russian troops to the front lines. And the mothers of those soldiers rarely are heard from throughout this conflict. But they are now speaking out to CNN. Fred Pleitgen reports from Moscow. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  As the war in Ukraine is close to entering its fourth year, more and more Russians are signing up to fight.
 
Vladimir Putin saying more than 700,000 are currently stationed in and around Ukraine.
 
We got rare access to an event in Moscow honoring the mothers of Russian soldiers battling in what the Kremlin still calls its special military operation -- mothers whose sons are fighting have been killed or injured.
 
Oksana Medvedeva's son, Yegor (ph), was severely wounded on the battlefield earlier this year.
 
"He had surgery on his leg and the nerves had to be sewn back together," she says. 
 
"He also had surgery on his jaw but it still has not recovered properly. He is still being treated. I am proud of my son that he is such a hero."
 
While the Russians have been making significant battlefield gains recently, they appear to come at a heavy price. Moscow doesn't publish casualty figures but Western governments believe the attrition rate among Russian forces is significant.
 
To increase manpower, the U.S. and Ukraine say more than 11,000 North Korean troops are now also on Moscow's side mostly in Russia's Kursk region.
 
Yelena Melina's (ph) son, Mikhail, is still fighting in Ukraine. She won't say where but acknowledges for him it's tough.
 
"He went through a lot of moments he doesn't like to talk about," she says. 
 
"But I found out by chance. I think he's a true hero."
 <br>[05:25:00]
 
The U.S. and its allies continue to condemn Russia's president, urging him to withdraw from Ukraine immediately. 
 
But this week instead, a major escalation, after the Biden administration allowed Ukraine to use longer distance U.S. and U.K. supplied missiles to strike deep inside Russia. 
 
Putin hit back with a new intermediate range ballistic missile capable of delivering devastating nuclear warheads and he threatened to hit U.S. assets as well.
 
"We should we consider ourselves entitled to use our weapons against the military objects of those countries that allow their weapons to be used against our objects," he said.
 
Back at the event for soldiers' mothers, a Russian parliamentarian backing Putin up. 
 
"We are a strong country and we've been patient for a long time," she said. 
 
"But in the case of mass deaths of our people, if the collective West does not sober up, we should proceed to more decisive actions. We can no longer lose any of our men."
 
But for now, the battles continue to escalate and the losses continue to mount, as Vladimir Putin warns. 
 
The war is increasingly becoming a struggle between Russia and the West -- Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Moscow. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE:  Well, when we come back, the tragic suicide of an Australian pre-teen and the country's fight to protect children from the harms of social media. Plus, the Texas state school board approves a new curriculum allowing
 
 Bible based learning to be taught in classrooms. Reactions to that controversial vote just ahead.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
MACFARLANE (voice-over):  Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane. 
 
If you're just joining us, here are some of today's top stories. 
 
Rescue crews in Beirut are searching for survivors in the rubble of a building after an Israeli airstrike early this morning; 11 people are dead and at least 23 others are injured, according to Lebanon's civil defense. 
 
The Israeli Defense Forces did not issue an evacuation order for the area and has yet to comment on the strike. 
 
Donald Trump's sentencing hearing in his hush money trial in New York has been postponed indefinitely. Judge Juan Merchan granted Trump's request to file a motion to dismiss the case, setting a deadline for December 2nd. 
 
The president-elect's posting a flurry of cabinet nominations, adding to his already colorful list of candidates. 
 
The nominees include hedge fund manager Scott Bessent as Secretary of Treasury, FOX News medical contributor Dr. Janette Nesheiwat as U.S. Surgeon General and Russell Vought, coauthor of Project 2025, as head of the Office of Management and Budget. 
 
MACFARLANE:  The Texas school board has approved a new optional curriculum, allowing Bible based learning materials to be taught in the state's kindergarten through fifth grade classes. On Friday, board members voted in a narrow majority to retain Christian infused educational content developed by the Texas Education Agency. 
 
The approval vote was met with immediate backlash and is likely to face legal challenges ahead. Opponents of the curriculum argue the material violates the Constitution's separation of church and state, erodes religious freedom and heavily favors Christianity over other religions. 
 
Others have cited that, though the curriculum is optional, many districts may be pressured to adopt it due to their reliance on state- run financial incentive programs. 
 
Now the suicide of a 12-year old girl in Australia shines a light on a country-wide fight to limit social media. But while some say it's a momentous step, others say a broadband may go too far. Details now from CNN's Hanako Montgomery. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For all the positive connections the joy social media can create it can also quickly strip it away -- destroy it forever.
 
KELLY O'BRIEN, MOTHER OF CHARLOTTE O'BRIEN:  I will miss your hugs, your kisses, your laugh, your beautiful, beautiful smile.
 
MONTGOMERY:  In September 12-year-old Australian girl Charlotte O'Brien took her own life after years of being bullied on social media. Her parents quickly joined a political fight to protect children from online harm. The Australian government says the best way to do that is the ban anyone under 16 from using social media.
 
ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER OF AUSTRALIA:  Social media is doing social harm to our young Australians and I am calling time on it. The safety and mental health of our young people has to be a priority.
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  Under new legislation introduced to Australia's Parliament there would be consequences for social media companies caught systematically breaching the age restriction and other safety measures -- fines reaching tens of millions of .
 
But children or parents won't be punished for breaking the new rules. Instead, the government says the ban will help moms and dads to say no to young people who want to stay online.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes. So being autistic, I have a really, really hard time connecting with others and doing that online makes it a lot easier.
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  Some experts, too, say that a catch-all approach may not be helpful.
 
JUSTINE HUMPHREY, UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:  Even though the age is really fundamentally important that we need to get right, what we're talking about when we say we're going to introduce a ban by age is that it negates the fact that young people have very, very different levels of maturity.
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  But advocates of the ban point to age limits on alcohol, gambling and smoking arguing social media can be equally damaging for those too young to use it -- Hanako Montgomery, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE:  Well, we're joined now by Sunita Bose. She's the managing director of Digital Industry Group Inc. 
 
Sunita, thank you so much for your time this morning. I feel like everyone, especially parents worldwide, are following this with anticipation to see if this ban is going to be enacted, because, of course, it will potentially set a precedent here. 
 
You have called this proposed ban a 20th century response to a 21st century problem. Just explain for me what you meant by that. 
 
SUNITA BOSE, MANAGING DIRECTOR, DIGITAL INDUSTRY GROUP INC.:  Thanks for having me on the program. This ban has certainly provoked a national conversation in Australia and it sounds like internationally as well. 
 
It has been polarizing. We've heard a range of views like you covered in your report. We've heard from around 100 experts here in Australia, who have written to prime minister Albanese to warn about the unintended consequences of this ban. 
 <br>[05:35:09]
 
The challenge with something like this is that young people are determined to get online. And the focus should be keeping them safe when they are online. That's a 21st century response as opposed to just working to keep them off the internet, where many have raised that there are unintended safety consequences. 
 
Working with the mainstream digital industry, I get a vantage point into the extensive safety work that they are doing on their services. And there's a risk that young people wanting to connect with others online will move to less safe, less regulated parts of the internet. 
 
MACFARLANE:  Yes, and as our report was pointing out, you know, a catch-all approach might not be the best solution here. However, the central idea of this ban and propelling this reform forward is that there is a link between social media and declining mental health. 
 
How severe is that link? 
 
BOSE:  There are a range of studies and what we haven't seen is a clear link. 
 
We've actually had a number of mental health experts here in Australia warning about the mental health harms that will come from a ban like this. Reachout, which is a well-known mental health organization, actually warns that 73 percent of young people use social media to find mental health support. 
 
We've also had experts warn that this is particularly important for more disadvantaged youth, for those in more regional areas, for LGBTQI youth who really rely on online spaces to form social connections and find community. 
 
MACFARLANE:  OK, so then if this isn't the right way to tackle this problem, what is the right way?
 
And whose responsibility should it be? 
 
BOSE:  The focus must be on online safety and the responsibility does lie with the online platforms as well as governments, community and a whole of society approach. But certainly there is a key responsibility on the online platforms and working directly with them. 
 
There is a range of work that they are undertaking to keep all people, including young people, safe online. In Australia, we have very robust online safety laws that play an important role in ensuring that that work continues. And there's also reform efforts here in Australia to make sure that that act keeps pace with emerging technologies. 
 
MACFARLANE:  But do you think there should be controls within an age limit?
 
I mean, I know 16 has been selected here. 
 
If they were -- if those reforms to be made in the way that you suggest, is it not still important to have an age limit imposed?
 
And I speak really as a, you know, a mother of two young girls. I would have thought it would be better for my children to not have access to social media, you know, sooner rather than later, just purely because they're not equipped to deal with it. 
 
BOSE:  As a mother of two myself, I relate to this idea. And what's really important to remember here is that we're not making a rule for a specific household. We're making a rule for a nation. 
 
What we are seeing is a lot of mainstream services are doing, are creating a lot of specific protections for young people. We're even seeing some companies come up with teen-specific versions of their services. So that work is happening within the industry. 
 
But there needs to be a broader approach that looks beyond just what happens on the surface but also how we empower young people and teenagers, because what we're really talking about here is that 13-16 age group, because right now the norm is for social media services to be for those who are over 13. 
 
It's really equipping those young adolescents with the skills to safely navigate an online world. 
 
MACFARLANE:  Can social media platforms be trusted to enact these reforms?
 
I mean, there's been some suggestion in the past that they are resistant, that they are being forced into this, you know, by the -- through the use of these massive fines. 
 
Do you do you expect them to respond and react in the way that you are -- that you hope? 
 
BOSE:  This legislation has been released on Thursday. And there are swift moves to have this be law within a week. 
 
What we haven't seen in Australia is a really extensive consultation process to air the many different views, like you've shared in your report, around, around this approach. 
 
But certainly once this is Australian law, all companies will need to comply. 
 
MACFARLANE:  Yes. And we will wait to see the results of that bill. Sunita Bose, we appreciate your thoughts from Sydney. Thank you. 
 
BOSE:  Thanks very much for having me. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE:  Now Russian missile strikes and threats have put Ukraine's capital on high alert. 
 <br>[05:40:02]
 
But one Ukrainian lawmaker says he won't be intimidated. He joins us next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
MACFARLANE:  Ukraine's capital has been on alert this past week after Russia launched an experimental missile and issued threats of other missile attacks. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE (voice-over): These air raid sirens sounded in Kyiv on Wednesday. This incident was a false alarm. Ukraine says it was part of a Russian psychological attack, spreading false warnings of a massive attack. 
 
Russia has recently increased overnight strikes in Kyiv and added to the tension. Thursday's launch of a new medium range ballistic missile at Ukraine's Dnipro region. On Friday, Ukraine's parliament was closed because of the threats of missiles. But one parliament member says they won't be intimidated. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
OLEKSIY GONCHARENKO, UKRAINIAN MP:  I'm near the parliament of Ukraine right now. It's 10:00 in the morning. I should be here for parliamentary meeting. Fortunately, it's canceled today. But I want to tell to everybody, we are not afraid here of Putin or his missiles, of his Oreshnik and all this blah, blah, blah and his bluffing. 
 
We are not afraid. We stand tall and that is our address to the whole world. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE:  Well, that was Oleksiy Goncharenko, who you just saw in that video, and he is joining us now live from Kyiv. 
 
Thank you for your time. That was, of course, a very defiant message that you had there to Russia out -- standing outside of Parliament yesterday. But you know, the Ukrainians must be getting worn down by this constant threat of escalation. 
 
What impact does that having on Ukrainians there?
 
And also in the capital where you are? 
 
GONCHARENKO:  Yes, Putin tries to attack Ukraine in all ways, also psychologically. 
 <br>[05:45:00]
 
And that was a special operation from him with this new ballistic missile, how they attacked, how they spread this message, how they send a message to Americans that they're going to do this. 
 
American embassy was closed. And all this definitely causes some tension on people. So that's why I think it was important to show that we are not afraid, like it was in February 2022, March 2023. We worked in the parliament when Russians were 20km from the parliament and could attack it by artillery even. 
 
So, yes, it is a tension. It is psychological attack from Putin. But I want to assure you that Ukrainians are concerned but not -- but are not panicking and are not afraid. We know with whom we deal and we are -- we continue fighting. 
 
MACFARLANE:  Nevertheless, I mean, Putin is adding to those tensions day by day. Just yesterday he threatened to continue using these experimental ballistic missiles, saying Russia will be mass producing the new system. 
 
Are you expecting Putin to follow through on these threats? 
 
You say you know him so well. 
 
Or are you are you viewing this as a bluff, as a means to exert pressure on your allies? 
 
GONCHARENKO:  No, it's definitely bluffing. 
 
And why he is doing this now, it's clear that we are moving to some negotiations. President-elect Donald Trump said that he will arrange such negotiations. Putin all is ready for this. 
 
Ukrainian president also last days changed his rhetorics in more for negotiations, speaking about possible negotiations and possible diplomatic solution. So we're moving to negotiations. And now Russia tries to take a better, stronger position at the table of negotiations. That's why they are doing this. 
 
They will, I think next two months, before inauguration of Mr. Trump as the new President of the United States, will be very tough. They will try to move on the ground in the eastern part of Ukraine. They will attack our energy infrastructure. They will make psychological attacks like this. They will try to threaten the world with nuclear weapons and so on.
 
 But you should be assured, first of all, that Russia is also very exhausted. Nevertheless, what Putin tries to show, he is exhausted and Russian economy is exhausted and Russian army is exhausted. 
 
But he will, these two months, he will use this time to put as much pressure both on Ukraine and on our allies as possible. 
 
MACFARLANE:  And in that time, your focus will switch to securing more of what you need in order to combat, if not threats, then actual attacks, like we saw on Thursday. 
 
We know that your defense minister is meant to be speaking to allies to secure new defense systems. 
 
Is that what the meeting with NATO will be about when you meet on Tuesday?
 
GONCHARENKO:  Definitely. Weaponry is the most important thing and we hope to receive more and we are very thankful for all the support we are receiving. 
 
But again, these two months are really decisive. So in the time when Putin tries to press, to pressure us, all of us, we need also to exhaust him. So that's the moment, the moment when everything which could be given to Ukraine should be given. 
 
And also, one more thing. Still, President Biden is in administration. I urge him and ask administration of President Biden to impose more sanctions on Russia. First of all, on the energy sector like it was done recently with Gazprom bank. 
 
But we need more and still he has power to do this. I think it's very important now to answer on these attacks from Putin by pressuring him. 
 
MACFARLANE:  All right. Oleksiy Goncharenko, we appreciate your time. Thank you. 
 
GONCHARENKO:  Thank you. Thank you very much. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE:  Now after the break, a big and timely turnaround for the Philadelphia 76ers. Plus the latest from the NFL and the Formula 1 circuit. CNN's sports with Andy Scholes is next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:50:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
MACFARLANE:  We're back with a quick look at sports and it's been a rough start to the NBA season for the 76ers. But fans in Philadelphia finally got a chance to cheer Friday night,
 
 thanks to a big night from one of their rookies. 
 
Joining me from Atlanta, CNN sports anchor Andy Scholes. 
 
Good to see you, Andy. 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORT CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, good to see you as well, Christina. You know, coming into last night, the 76ers, they had the worst record in the entire NBA. It was just a horrible start to what they thought was going to be a season where they would compete for the title. 
 
And, you know, they still might if they can get healthy and turn things around. But the one bright spot so far for the team has been rookie Jared McCain. The 16th overall pick, getting hot in the fourth quarter, scored 14 of his 30 points in the period. 
 
Sixers rallied to beat the Nets 113 to 98. Lots of teams right now just kicking themselves for passing on McCain. He scored 20 points in seven straight games and right now is the clear frontrunner to win the Rookie of the Year. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  For the rookie? 
 
JARED MCCAIN, PHILADELPHIA 76ERS GUARD:  Of course, I mean, I set goals every single time, every single new season I have. Every day I set a goal for myself. So this season, I just wanted to be consistent with my work and trust it throughout the whole way. So Rookie of the Year is definitely one of my goals. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES:  All right. Rockets rookie Reid Sheppard also having himself a nice night. Look at that pass. He saved the ball and throws it perfectly behind his back up the court to Tariq Hassan for the slam. 
 
Rockets blew out the Blazers in that one, 116 to 88. Houston won seven of eight. They're now 12 and five on the season. 
 
All right. We saw the 16th pick in the draft in McCain and then the third pick in Shepherd. 
 
How about next year's number one overall pick, Cooper Flagg? 
 
The 17 year old Duke freshman just dominating once again. He had a game high 24 points for the Blue Devils, leading Duke to a road win over 17th ranked Arizona. Flagg doesn't turn 18 until December 21st. Safe to say no one's going to pass on him. 
 
All right. Elsewhere, Formula 1 under the bright lights of the Las Vegas Strip this weekend. Max Verstappen inching a bit closer to his fourth straight driver's championship after really struggling in the first day of practice in Las Vegas on Thursday. Verstappen able to turn it around for qualifying Friday night. He'll
 
 start Sunday's race fifth. Max currently holds a 62 point lead at the top over his friend and rival, Lando Norris, who will start sixth. 
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
All Max needs to do on Saturday is not lose two points to Norris and he'll win the title. 
 
All right. Finally, brutal news for the 49ers ahead of their huge matchup against the Packers on Sunday. Quarterback Brock Purdy has been ruled out with a right shoulder injury. 
 
Star defensive lineman Joey Bosa also is going to miss the game with injuries. The Niners just five and five on the season and they need a win in a bad way on Sunday against the Packers. 
 
And you know, Christina, the Niners, they lost in the Super Bowl to the Chiefs back in February. And sometimes when you lose the Super Bowl, it's called the Super Bowl hangover. You have a really bad season the next year. And that seems to be exactly what's happening to the 49ers. 
 
MACFARLANE:  It certainly does seem that way. And just looking at the Vegas Grand Prix as you were previewing for us there. And you know, I never did get there on my time in sports. Still a big regret. But we're expecting Verstappen to seal the deal this weekend. 
 
SCHOLES:  It seems like it's heading that way. Yes. You know, we'll see, we'll see. Maybe we can get an upset. But you know it's hard to bet against it. 
 
MACFARLANE:  All right, Andy, great to see you. 
 
SCHOLES:  All right. 
 
MACFARLANE:  Meanwhile Jason Kelce and his wife are expecting their fourth daughter. The Philadelphia Eagles offensive lineman retired recently from the NFL. His wife, Kylie, posted a photo on Instagram, announcing the addition to their family. 
 
The couple married in 2018 and have three daughters. The spotlight has been Kelce's life since his brother, Travis, started dating Taylor Swift. Travis Kelce has won three Super Bowls as a tight end with the Kansas City Chiefs. 
 
And that will do it for us here on CNN NEWSROOM. Thank you for joining us. I'm Christina Macfarlane. And for all those watching in North America, "CNN THIS MORNING" is next. For all those elsewhere, "AFRICAN VOICES: PLAYMAKERS" (sic) starts after this break.