Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Zelenskyy Addresses the United Nations General Assembly; The Changes Coming to Instagram Teen Accounts; Astronomers Rethink the Structure of the Universe. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired September 26, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello everyone. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s Thursday, September 26th. Happy Friday Eve. I`m here to help you get your 
 
 mind fueled up and get you caught up on the latest news from around the world in just 10 minutes time. So let`s go. 
 
We start today in Ukraine, where the U.S. is expected to send billions of dollars in aid to support the country`s war against Russia. Currently, the 
 
 Biden administration has nearly $6 billion worth of arms and equipment left to deliver there, but the authority expires next Monday.
 
The plan is for the administration to commit the remainder of those funds to Ukraine before they expire, buying the U.S. a bit more time to then 
 
 announce specific aid packages and space out the delivery of supplies and equipment over several months. 
 
Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022. Since then, it has seen more than two years of intense fighting and the destruction of much of Ukraine`s 
 
 infrastructure. Ukraine has made some offensive gains over the summer, largely thanks to the U.S. funding and equipment, but Russia began counter 
 
 offenses to regain regions lost to Ukraine. 
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is calling on the U.S. and other countries to continue to support Ukraine with aid. He addressed the UN 
 
 General Assembly in New York City yesterday, where world leaders convened to discuss global issues.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: We must uphold the UN Charter and guarantee our right, Ukraine`s right to territorial integrity and 
 
 sovereignty, just as we do for any other nation. We need to withdraw the Russian occupiers, which will bring an end to the hostilities in Ukraine, 
 
 and we must hold those responsible for war crimes accountable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Now, President Zelenskyy is scheduled to meet with President Biden at the White House today to sell him on what he calls his plan for victory. 
 
 That`s likely to include a request for more weapons from the United States. 
 
Next up, we told you last week about changes coming to teenagers` Instagram accounts. Well, they`re here. Meta, the company that owns Instagram, 
 
 started rolling out those safety updates this week. So, what does the new teen Instagram look like?
 
CNN`s Clare Duffy will show us.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN TECH WRITER: For the millions of teens under the age of 18 who use Instagram, the platform is going to start looking a little 
 
 different. Meta, the company that owns Instagram, is rolling out a new teen accounts experience after years of criticism over the platform`s safety 
 
 risks for young people. They are, for example, going to make all teen accounts private by default.
 
So, these settings were available before, but now you`re -- if you`re under the age of 18, you`re getting put in them --
 
KIRA WONG O`CONNOR, META YOUTH SAFETY POLICY MANAGER: Exactly.
 
DUFFY: -- whether you like it or not.
 
O`CONNOR: Exactly.
 
DUFFY (voice-over): Teens who are 16 or 17 have the option to manually change the settings back themselves, but 13 to 15-year-olds need to set up 
 
 parental supervision through the app and get their parents` OK to make their Instagram settings less restrictive.
 
O`CONNOR: For parents, we know, speaking to them, three of their top concerns are with teen`s online safety is, who can contact them, the 
 
 content that they`re seeing and time spent.
 
DUFFY: OK. So, this is a demo account for you said a 14-year-old. I think the biggest or like the most immediate thing they`re going to notice, 
 
 right, is the private account. So, this is interesting. You go to settings, and you see immediately teen safety settings.
 
O`CONNOR: Yes. And so, here you see, learn more. If you click on that, it takes you to a pop up that will tell you how a Teen Account works, so that 
 
 when you`re a teen using Teen Accounts, you`re only able to contact people that you`re mutually following or that you`ve already been in contact with. 
 
So, with sleep mode, anyone in Teen Accounts is defaulted into sleep mode. This means from 10:00 p.m. until 07:00 a.m. a teen is not going to get 
 
 notifications in that timeframe, and then they are able to still use Instagram, but they`re not going to get notifications, kind of pulling them 
 
 back into the app.
 
DUFFY: Got it. And again, here, if I want to turn this off --
 
O`CONNOR: You`re going to have to ask your parents.
 
DUFFY: -- I have to ask my parent, because --
 
O`CONNOR: Yeah.
 
DUFFY: -- I`m 14.
 
O`CONNOR: With the daily limit, same thing. You`re able to change this only if a parent gives you the permission to but we`ve set this at 60 minutes.
 
DUFFY: How do you know if, when I`m a teen, I request to add parental supervision? Is there a way for Instagram to know that it is actually a 
 
 parent and not like an older friend or something like that?
 
O`CONNOR: While we don`t verify who a parent is, we do have other safety technologies in place where we know if it`s potentially a suspicious 
 
 account. We don`t allow teens to supervise themselves.
 
DUFFY: And then what happens if I`m a teenager and I sign up for an account and I just lie about my age?
 
O`CONNOR: For a long time now, we have required that when you sign up for Instagram, you have to input your age at that point. If you`re under the 
 
 age of 18, and we notice that you tried to change your age above 18, we will put you through an ID check in order to verify and make sure that you 
 
 are the age that you`re stating.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Ten second trivia. Roughly how far away is the nearest black hole? 
 
10,000 light-years, 1,000 light-years, 100 light-years, or 50 light-years?
 
If you said 1,000 light-years away, you are correct. Scientists believe dormant black hole Gaia BH1 is the closest to Earth. A new discovery is 
 
 causing astronomers to rethink the structure of the universe.
 
They recently uncovered a pair of ginormous black hole jets releasing from a supermassive black hole. See, black holes have a reputation of being the 
 
 garbage disposals of the universe, inhaling anything that comes near them. But some of those materials are ejected before they get drawn in, forming 
 
 these powerful jets.
 
Scientists say the ones they just found are so enormous, our entire Milky Way galaxy would look like a tiny dot in those two giant glowing eruptions. 
 
 They`re actually the width of 140 Milky Way galaxies. The discovery has astronomers wondering if massive black hole jets hold the key to questions 
 
 about the universe`s evolution and structure.
 
All right, octopuses have long been known to do their own thing, but new research is showing that they might not be as solitary as we once thought. 
 
 These super intelligent cephalopods have been found to seek the company of other fish, and can even pack a punch if their fish friends don`t 
 
 cooperate. Our McKenna Ewen is here to explain.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EDUARDO SAMPAIO, POSTDOC RESEARCHER, MAX PLANCK INSTITUTE OF ANIMAL BEHAVIOR (voice-over): A new study found that typically solitary octopuses 
 
 can actually work together with other fish to hunt. Researchers in Germany found that different species of fish share different leadership 
 
 responsibilities within hunting groups, and that octopuses typically decide whether and when the group should attack its prey. Octopuses were even 
 
 observed using their tentacles to punch uncooperative fish as punishment to get them to leave the group. 
 
This footage helps researchers better understand why different groups of species stick together.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, drawing the change you to see. And in Crayon, if you want, a now 12-year-old in Utah didn`t like the 
 
 proposed design of a local playground, so she went to the drawing board, sketching out designs for a playground that she and her little sisters 
 
 would love. Check out the bold steps she took to make the dream a reality.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You might say this is a big day.
 
ROSILI OLSEN, PLAYGROUND DESIGNER: It feels amazing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A day when a community comes out to see a finished project, the work of a now 12-year-old.
 
ROSILI OLSEN, PLAYGROUND DESIGNER: It`s crazy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A year ago, Rosili Olsen started a journey that began from a simple question, a complaint really, after she saw the designs for 
 
 this playground near her home.
 
ERIC HOWES, CLEARFIELD CITY COMMUNITY SERVICES DIRECTOR: And Rosili`s first response to that was, that`ll be really hard for my sisters to play on 
 
 because it was a lot of rope climbers and things like that, which for a two to five-year-old is a lot trickier.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Eric Howes is Clearfield City`s Community Services Director. He says Olsen came with concerns and her own plan in crayon.
 
HOWES: And that can be scary. I don`t think most of us like to work with government agencies too much.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was already too late to change the local playground, but why not loop her in on another one? So Olsen made more drawings, more 
 
 specifications. They came together and made something.
 
OLSEN: It`s a really cool playground. And -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And what it is today turned out a lot better than any kind of private gripe or complaint can do.
 
OLSEN: It`s just really cool.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Something cool that a lot of people can enjoy and a story she says she may share for a while down the road.
 
OLSEN: It means a lot. And now I can -- when I`m older, I can tell my boyfriends. And -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And maybe tell them that when you fight City Hall, sometimes you win.
 
HOWES: She saw something she didn`t like. And rather than just complaining and writing a nasty social media post, she said, I`m going to do something. 
 
 And she did.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: For Crayon Out Loud, that`s awesome. 
 
It is time to show some love now. We`re going to give a special shout out to Bartlett High School in Anchorage, Alaska. What up to all my Golden 
 
 Bears? And Ms. Corcoran, thank you for making us part of your day. 
 
I learn something new with you every day. I really do. And I`m so grateful to spend this time with you. Let`s do it again tomorrow, shall we? Friyay. 
 
I`ll see you right here. I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10.
 
END