Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: More Than 100M Under Storm, Snow, Wind Chill, Freeze Warnings; More Than 2,000 U.S. Flights Canceled Friday; Colder Air, More Snow Forecast For The Weekend In The U.S. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired January 13, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:00:30]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to you all you watching us here in the United States, Canada and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber ahead on CNN Newsroom. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is Iowa weather.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Iowa weather.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Right now most of the state of Iowa is under a blizzard warning with whiteout conditions and drifting snow. Millions across the U.S. face similar winter weather alerts. Plus, the bitter cold could impact how many Iowa voters turn out to caucus Monday, which presidential candidate ultimately comes out on top. And the U.S. hits up targets in Yemen for a second day. We'll get reaction from the region.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber.
 
BRUNHUBER: We begin this hour with life threatening blizzard conditions across the U.S. More than 100 million people, nearly two thirds of the country are under winter weather alerts and advisories this weekend. Most of the state of Iowa is under a blizzard warning into Saturday as strong wind gusts whip up almost a foot of snow in some parts. Windshield warnings are in effect until Tuesday. Back-to- back storms have made this week the snowiest for Des Moines since 1942.
 
 Authorities are also urging travelers to stay off the roads as the State Patrol have responded to dozens of crashes and hundreds of calls for help already. The freezing temperatures and heavy snowfall are causing near whiteout conditions and threatening power outages and some people say they're preparing for the worse most (inaudible).
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Find some salt from our driveway so it doesn't get
 
 too icy. Got shovels and gloves and boots and yes, I'm ready for it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I am actually picking up some groceries because I have a feeling we are going to get slammed with snow tomorrow.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: The National Weather Service is warning that the extreme wind chills could cause frostbite on exposed skin in as little as 30 minutes. More than 2,000 U.S. flights were canceled on Friday. That's the most we've seen since June 2023. According to flight aware, the bulk of the cancellations were in Chicago where winds gusts to 55 miles per hour at O'Hare International Airport. Millions of people are under winter weather alerts from California to Maine and more than 350,000 homes and businesses are dealing with power outages. New York, Philadelphia and Boston will be under coastal flood advisories today. All across the country, more than 55 million people are facing subzero Fahrenheit temperatures this week. 
 
All right. Let's find out what's in store for the weekend from CNN meteorologist Chad Myers.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Still snowing across the northern plains and parts of the Great Lakes rain across parts of the Northeast but that will change over and move away the colder air much, much colder air dropping 20 to 30 degrees. By the time Sunday rolls around turning that rain into snow lake effect snow for sure over all the great lakes that aren't even frozen over yet so significant snow coming in. Certainly, big snow for the game, possibly in Buffalo. We'll see how much snow and if they have to move that game. 
 
But the winds are going to be 30 to 50 miles per hour knocking down power lines with this very cold air. Arctic air. Look at the morning low temperature in Omaha for Sunday morning. 21 degrees below zero. And that's the air temperature. That's not the wind chill. That's what the thermometer is going to say. That's what your dog is going to feel. That's what you're going to feel in your car fields as well. Even down to Oklahoma City by the end of the weekend. The morning low will be three. That's like take care of your water pipes type of weather there. 
 
Now we turn our attention to Iowa, where at voting time the air temperature is going to be somewhere between minus 5 and minus 10. But the wind is also going to be blowing. The snow will still be drifting, and the wind chill factors will be between 20 and 40 degrees below zero for those people trying to get to the polls.
 
BRUNHUBER: I was extreme winter weather is already hitting the critical final days ahead of campaigning ahead of the Republican caucuses. Blizzard warnings forced the cancellation of many events on Friday and Saturday. But the big question is how the weather will affect turnout on Monday. CNN as Jeff Zeleny has that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I don't necessarily
 
 as a Floridian want to be in negative 20-degree temperatures. I know where the campaign that's built to turnout our people negative but --
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In three days before the Iowa caucuses, the closing arguments of the Republican race come with a winter weather warning. 
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Yes, I know it's cold on Monday but I'm going to be out there.
 <br>[04:05:01]
 
ZELENY (voice-over): A blizzard and the forecast for a dangerous record setting cold spell are testing the fortitude of campaign organizations built by Ron DeSantis and Nikki Haley and even front runner Donald Trump who's been warning his supporters against complacency. 
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Pretend you one point down. Okay. If you're one point down, you have to get out and you have to vote, vote, vote. 
 
ZELENY (voice-over): snow and bitter winds scrambled the plans of candidates today canceling rallies and speeches designed to build momentum heading into the final weekend. DeSantis dropped by a campaign office. 
 
DESANTIS: Every phone call, every door, everything we do between now in caucus night is going to make a difference. 
 
ZELENY, (voice-over): As Haley held telephone town hall meetings.
 
HALEY (voice-over): Please wear layers of clothes, just in case they're aligned so that you are staying safe. And please go in there and know that you are setting the tone for the country. 
 
ZELENY, (voice-over): Those rivals are locked in a bitter duel to become the leading alternative to Trump.
 
BILL FUNK, IOWA VOTER: I personally think it's time to move forward. 
 
ZELENY, (voice-over): Bill funk twice voted for Trump. But he spent the last year looking for a new choice.
 
FUNK: I think that the fact for this country to come together. I think it's time to put a leader in there that can bring us together and move us forward and heal some of the past. We've had too much chaos.
 
ZELENY, (voice-over): His wife Connie isn't independent. For much of their 45 year marriage, they've canceled one another's vote. Now, they're both supporting Haley. 
 
CONNIE FUNK, IOWA VOTER: I'm saying my prayers. I feel like we have this opportunity to show different sides of what politics can be. And Nikki is the person I feel that can do that. ZELENY, (voice-over): Haley is hoping for a strong turnout in the
 
 suburbs. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hi, how's it going? Did you sign up on? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I did.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You did. Okay. What was your last name?
 
ZELENY, (voice-over): While DeSantis has been working toward broader support in all corners of the state. 
 
DESANTIS: We're excited about having gone to all 99 counties.
 
ZELENY, (voice-over): Trump is counting on loyal followers, particularly in rural areas to help build a landslide victory with an organization far stronger and more sophisticated than in 2016.
 
TRUMP: You got to get out and vote because you know, bad things happen when you sit back. 
 
ZELENY, (voice-over): Christina Brekkie voted for Trump and consider doing so again. But late last year had a change of heart.
 
CHRISTINA BREKKIE: With the way the country is going right now. I think people are looking for something else. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ZELENY: Former President Donald Trump also changing his campaign schedule because of the storm. He was scheduled to do for campaign rallies to Saturday to Sunday. That's been reduced to just one rally on Sunday. His campaign will be supplementing that with telephone town halls, but certainly not pressing the flesh as he normally does. DeSantis and Haley for their part they are scheduled to be out campaigning on Saturday, but so much here now depends on the weather. Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Des Moines.
 
BRUNHUBER: Hailey and DeSantis have been taking plenty of swings at each other in Iowa. Joe Walsh, former congressman and host of the white flag podcast discuss the two candidates chances with CNN political commentator and Democratic strategist Maria Cardona. Here's part of their conversation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JOE WALSH, HOST, "WHITE FLAG" PODCAST: Trump's going to win Iowa, it's just a matter of how big and if Nikki Haley can get a bump heading into New Hampshire.
 
MARIA CARDONA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: And the problem is because DeSantis has gone all in and Iowa this -- this is it for him. This will be the hill that he dies on or not. If he doesn't, I think if he doesn't come in second --
 
WALSH: He's -- he's out. CARDONA: He's done. Because he does -- he can't go to New Hampshire.
 
 And they've already said that he's gone to South Carolina before he's going to New Hampshire. I think he's going to try to one up Nikki Haley in South Carolina regardless of what happens in Iowa. 
 
He's going to focus on South Carolina. He wants to embarrass Nikki Haley in her own home state because Donald Trump is so far ahead of both of them. If he can get second place in South Carolina. that's a huge embarrassment for Nikki Haley. I think --
 
WALSH: And if DeSantis can get set in Iowa, that would be defying expections.
 
CARDONA: Right. And I also think it means that he thinks that he doesn't really have that big of a chance in New Hampshire.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile, President Biden highlighted the country's economic strength at events in Pennsylvania Friday made several stops in Allentown. The one time steel and manufacturing hub was hit hard by deindustrialization in the late 20th century, but it's seen a revival in recent years. Biden met with small business owners and visited a firefighting training facility. A Quinnipiac University survey of registered Pennsylvania voters released this week found Biden leaning Donald Trump by 3% in a general election matchup. 
 
The judge in Donald Trump's Georgia election case is planning a hearing in early February after allegations were made against the prosecution. There are reports of an inappropriate relationship between Fulton County DA funny Willis and lead prosecutor Nathan Wade, Trump co-defendant alleges without direct evidence that the two are romantic partners and that Willis improperly hired Wade. Also the money she paid him for working on the case was allegedly used to fund lavish vacations for them together. A CNN Legal Analyst says Willis should bow out
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MICHAEL MOORE, FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY: And tell her to get out of the case. I really think that this type of case with this allegation -- these allegations this this case is bigger than any one prosecute either and I think probably to preserve the case and to show that what's of most importance to her is the facts of the Trump case as opposed to her political career, if you will at that this moment.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 <br>[04:10:13]
 
BRUNHUBER: Well as a spokesperson told CNN earlier this week that her office will respond to the accusations through court filings. First for the Biden administration on Friday, the U.S. Justice Department announced it will seek the death penalty for a buffalo mass shooter Payton Gendron. He pleaded guilty to murdering 10 black people in a racially charged massacre at a supermarket in Buffalo, New York in 2022. This is the first time the administration has pursued the death penalty, or some of the victims' relatives and like the decision by Justice Department officials.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MARK TAILEY, SON OF BUFFALO SHOOTING VICTIM GERALDINE TAILEY: As far as I'm concerned, I think he's getting off the hook getting the death penalty, because he won't get that -- that suffering that I want. As long as I'm alive whether God gives me 20, 30 or 60 years, I want to be able to see him to suffer.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Gentleman's attorney has told CNN in a statement that they're deeply disappointed in the federal prosecutor's decision. The case is scheduled to be back in court February 2nd. Houthi target targets in Yemen take more fire from U.S. forces in the region while the latest on a new wave of strikes launched from this warship. Plus, we'll have a report on what Taiwanese men and women who live in New York are saying about the self-governing Island's crucial election. That's ahead, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:15:20]
 
BRUNHUBER: Houthi targets in Yemen have taken another round of pounding from U.S. forces in the region. Several hours ago, the destroyer USS Kearney hit a radar site with cruise missiles. According to U.S. Central Command op run TV station reported airstrikes in the capital Sana'a came on the heels of a much larger wave of strikes carried out by the U.S. and Britain the day before. And I will look this is the aftermath at one of nearly 30 sites that hit those that was hitting those tax. Officials say they were in response to repeated Houthi attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea. Houthi is now vowed to retaliate against U.S. and British accents.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
YAHYA SAREA, HOUTHI MILITARY SPOKESPERSON (voice-over): The American and British enemies bear full responsibility for their criminal aggression against our Yemeni people. It will not go unpunished or unanswered. The Yemeni armed forces will not hesitate to target threatening sources and all hostile targets on land and sea in order to defend Yemen, its sovereignty and independence.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: The U.S. defended the strikes is perfectly legal under international law. This is how the U.S. Ambassador made that case at the UN Security Council on Friday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, U.S. ATTORNEY TO THE UNITED NATIONS: The aim of these strikes was to disrupt and degrade the Houthis ability to continue their reckless attacks against vessels and commercial shipping in the Red Sea, in the Gulf of Aden. These strikes were necessary and they were proportionate. The United States does not desire more conflict in a region already plagued by so much of it. Our aim is simple to deescalate tensions and restore stability in the Red Sea, while upholding the fundamental principles of freedom of navigation.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: UN Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez called the Houthi attacks on shipping unacceptable. He also said the country's defending their ships must respect international law and avoid escalation. Nada Bashir is monitoring developments for us and she joins us now from Beirut. 
 
So first of all, what's the latest on these new U.S. strikes and how the Houthis might respond?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, it certainly is mounting concern around the potential reaction in retaliation from the Houthi rebels in Yemen following that initial round of strike current carried out by the United States and the United Kingdom along with support from several international allies. And we heard vocal condemnation from the Houthis vowing to retaliate saying that this would not go without consequences. Now, the expressed aim of both the United States and the United Kingdom, as we have heard has been to downgrade to defuse tension but also to downgrade at the Houthis ability to carry out attacks in the Red Sea. And of course in late November, we have seen more than two dozen times carried out by the Houthi rebels against shipping along that crucial Red Sea route. 
 
According to military officials in the U.S. just on Tuesday, this week, we saw 21 Houthi missiles and drones shot down by the U.S. military. And of course, there has been mounting concern around this. We've heard from officials from both the U.S. and the United Kingdom saying that the actions or priorities have disrupted global supply chain have impacts the global economies in the U.S. as it is putting lives at risk and the strikes were illegitimate attempt to prevent any risks further risks to life in the region. And of course, the U.S. is crucial assets in the region. 
 
Now we did see the Houthis retaliate somewhat there was an attempt to survive this one anti-ship ballistic missile fire following that random strikes, which targeted 60 assets around 16 locations in Yemen overnight Thursday into Friday. It remains to be seen the extent to which these strikes carried out by the U.S. and the United Kingdom have been successful in downgrading really slowing down the Houthis ability to carry out such attacks. 
 
We have, of course, seen the U.S. now this time unilaterally carrying out further strike of course, on a smaller scale. This has drawn some condemnation around the region where there has been concern around the Houthis ability not only to disrupt the situation in the Red Sea, but also potentially to carry out further attacks. We've seen the Houthis broadening out their attacks in the past television launch of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. That is certainly a concern for regional leaders, particularly of course, as we continue to see tensions mounting with Iran with regards to Israel's war in Gaza. Of course, these are backed funded by Iran and we have heard from the Houthis repeatedly now vowing to continue their attacks along the Red Sea. So long as Israel's attacks on Gaza continue.
 <br>[04:20:04]
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Thanks so much Nada Bashir in Beirut. President Biden's as he believed the Houthis are a terrorist group as the U.S. considers reapplying that designation to them something lifted in 2021. And he told reporters the Houthis aren't the only ones who got the blunt message from the American and British attacks in Yemen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I've already delivered the message to Iran. They know not to do anything. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Will you continue with the strikes, sir?
 
BIDEN: We will make sure that we respond to the Houthis if they continue this outrageous behavior, along with our allies. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are we in the de facto proxy war with Iran?
 
BIDEN: No. Iran does not want a war with us.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you willing to call the Houthis a terrorist group, sir?
 
BIDEN: I think they are. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: In Iran on Friday, protesters burned makeshift us Israeli and British flags to show support for the Houthis in Yemen and to condemn the strikes. And in Yemen, huge crowds gathered in the capital city of Sana'a to protest the strikes ahead of the Houthi supreme Revolutionary Committee urged the U.S. and U.K. to go back to their country and fight racism instead of protecting Israeli ships. 
 
Joining me now is Stephen Collinson, senior reporter for CNN politics covering the White House. Great to have you on. So first, on the timing of all of this, why did President Biden choose to act now? What was on the line in terms of U.S. credibility say?
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIIOR REPORTER: I think strategically it had gotten to a point where you are having these continuous barrages of drones and missiles strikes towards commercial shipping in the Red Sea. This clearly is a very important international sea lane. It's very important to the world economy. But this point, there was a question of us credibility. Washington had warned the Houthis to stop doing this. The situation kept escalating. So it was time really for the U.S. to enforce a red line. And this was seen by the White House as not just a signal to the Houthis but to other Iranian proxies around the Middle East that have up to their activity following the U.S. war that is rarely war in Gaza, that the U.S. would act to protect its interests. 
 
This is something that the White House had tried not to do. For weeks, it has been trying to avoid a widening of this wall. It got to a point I think where the tariffs needed to be reestablished. And I think the White House is hoping that this kind of action, although it did escalate the situation ultimately will prevent the wider spreading of this war that everyone in Washington fears.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, exactly. But, you know, speaking of Washington, politically, Biden's being criticized by Republicans for not acting sooner. It would be for them another example in the narrative. They've been weaving since the start was administration, though the world doesn't take Biden and therefore, the U.S. seriously will, you know, launching these strikes help at all politically, do you think to blunt that particular line of attack?
 
COLLINSON: I think this is one of those situations when as a president, you're presented with a lot of options, none of which are very good in terms of their outcome strategically, or indeed politically. You have some Republicans, for example, Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis. Two of the Republican candidates vying in the Iowa caucuses which take place on Monday night the first nominating contest of the 2024 election season. They say that Biden should have acted sooner they accused him of being weak towards Iran. Former President Donald Trump, the favorite to win the Iowa caucuses is taking a slightly different tack in line with his Make America Great isolationism. 
 
He put up a post on social media today questioning why the U.S. was now getting sucked into another Middle Eastern conflict and accusing Biden of being weak in that sense. Biden also has a problem on his left and his own party, his coalition of younger voters has been particularly tested by the war in Gaza, the heavy numbers of Palestinian casualties have really caused younger progressive voters to turn against Israel and Biden's strong support for the Israeli government. Some of the key figures on the left in the Democratic Party have criticized Biden for actually taking the strikes, arguing that he exceeded his authority of present and he should have gone to Congress for a declaration of war and that is infringed the constitution. 
 
So really, it's a very difficult political situation for the president. His credibility and his global authority was on the line. But now he's acted he's getting even more criticism. I think that's basically the reality of the job of the presidency but in an election year especially one where Biden has a tough race to get a second term in the White House, it's very difficult for him.
 <br>[04:25:15]
 
BRUNHUBER: And finally, as you say, I mean, it's in a way a no win situation for President Biden is a tough balancing act for him. How much will domestic politics in an election year play into his decision making going forward? COLLINSON: Well, the President really does not want to get embroiled in a wider Middle Eastern war, not just for political reasons, but for national security reasons, of course, as well. But an intensification of fighting in the Middle East is not the kind of message he wants to send to voters. I think you've seen the effect of the politics in the United States in the way that Washington and the Biden administration, traveling officials have really increased pressure on Israel, to turn down the intensity of their operation in Gaza. 
 
As I mentioned, the younger progressive voters that Biden needs to show up in his coalition in critical swing states in November. They've not taken kindly to his support of the Netanyahu government. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Listen, we'll have to leave it there. Really appreciate your analysis. Stephen Collinson. Thank you so much for speaking with us. 
 
COLLINSON: Thanks. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Extreme weather could affect voter turnouts in Iowa's Republican caucuses on Monday. Blizzard warnings have already forced candidates to cancel events during the critical final days of campaigning. That's next. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:30:03]
 
BRUNHUBER: Welcome back to all you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kimberly Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom. Extreme winter weather in the U.S. is having an impact on the first nominating contest in the race for the White House, the Iowa Republican caucuses. Blizard warnings will remain in place through today and strong winds will bring whiteout conditions. Wind chill warnings are in effect until Tuesday. Temperatures will fall below zero today and remain there throughout Monday. Temperatures Monday evening when the caucuses take place will be as low as negative 10 degrees with wind chills as low as negative 35. Candidates have to cancel some campaign events in the critical final weekend are still working to win over voters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HALEY (voice-over): I'm so sorry that we couldn't be in Fort Dodge. But I didn't want to miss the opportunity to be able to communicate for all of you that were planning on coming out to see us on this snowy day in Iowa." 
 
DESANTIS: I'll ask you for your support on Monday. I know it's going to be cold. I know it's going to be not the most pleasant but I don't think you'll ever be able to cast a vote that has more impact. Given the circumstances. We don't know what the turnout is going to be. It could be much smaller than what it's been in, you know in the 16th cycle. That's possible.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) BRUNHUBER: All right. We turn now to Taiwan's crucial election. Polls
 
 closed a short time ago and vote counting is now underway. The results will determine who will be the self-governing Island's next leader. And Kristie Lu Stout joins us now from Hong Kong with latest. So Kristie, you walk us through the candidates and what's at stake here.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Kim. Now voting wrapped in Taiwan about just over an hour and a half ago at 4:00 p.m. local time, billions switch to the polls in these critical presidential and parliamentary elections. And now the ballots are being counted. And when you look at the video, and I don't know if we have a live feed to share with you. They're being counted. As you can see there by hand, you know, each vote is held up. They're put up on public display for public scrutiny before being counted a very transparent process. 
 
Now we're still very early on in the tally. But the result is expected to come out later this evening. And the world is watching especially China. Now three men with three very different visions for Taiwan are vying to succeed Presidents Hyang win. I want you to look at this graphic of these are individuals. You have Lai Ching-Te of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party of the DPP. You have Hou Yu-Ih of the opposition Kuomintang or KMT, and Ko Wen-Je of the Taiwan Peoples Party or TPP. 
 
Now, let's go through the candidates one by one. Lai Ching-Te is the vice president of Taiwan. He is also the chairman of the ruling DPP. He says that he would maintain the status quo and like Tsai Ing-Wen pursue peace through strength. And China has denounced his party and denounced lying his views as separatist. The second candidate Hou Yu- Ih of the opposition Kuomintang is the mayor of New Taipei City, a longtime police officer who says that he will reengage with Beijing if elected. Now his party, the KMT traditionally favors closer ties with Beijing. 
 
And then you have the third presidential candidate Ko Wen-Je of the TPP. Now he is the former mayor of Taipei. He was a surgeon before entering politics. And what we also know is that his focus on pocketbook issues like the increasingly high cost of living has been something that has really drawn and resonated with young voters across Taiwan. 
 
Now, of course, we're keeping an eye on the parliamentary contest as well in Taiwan, the DPP and the KMT have stressed the need to win a majority. China, of course, is watching this election very, very closely on Friday. We heard comments from the People's Liberation Army, saying that it remains quote "on high alert" and will quote, "smash" any Taiwan independence plot. Trying to claims Taiwan is part of its territory despite never having controlled it. Back to you Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. So China obviously watching very closely how closely is the U.S. watching all this?
 
STOUT: Oh, the U.S. has been watching these events very, very closely. But U.S. officials in the run up to this election have gone out of their way to emphasize that the U.S. is not interfering and is not intervening in the democratic processes in Taiwan. A few days ago, we learned from a senior Biden administration official that the U.S. President plans to send an unofficial delegation to Taiwan after the election to emphasize the importance of Taiwan-U.S. relations, but also to reiterate the China, One China policy that the United States has. 
 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing weighed in shortly after that announcement, saying that it did not support of course such a move, but not to jeopardize relations between China. We also learned that America's chief diplomat Antony Blinken last night on the eve of the towers election met with a senior Chinese official they discussed human rights. They also discussed the need for peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Will check them a few again next hour. Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong thanks so much. Well, they may live thousands of miles away from Taiwan but members of the Taiwanese community in New York are following this race closely. CNNs Lynda Kinkade has more.
 <br>[04:35:14]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In the New York City neighborhood of Flushing, Queens, one of the largest Taiwanese communities in the United States, the names of three political parties are on everyone's lips.
 
SALLY WU, PROGRAM MANAGER, TAIWAN CENTER: DPP. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: KMT. 
 
WU: And the TPP. 
 
BORCHENG HSU, ADVOCATE FOR "KEEP TAIWAN FREE": DPP, KMT, TPP.
 
KINKADE: One candidate from these three parties will be the next Taiwanese president. Leading in the polls for months is William Lai from the DPP, the current Taiwanese vice president. He's looking to succeed President Tsai Ing-Wen who cannot run again because of term limits. Taiwanese here are following every twist and turn in this crucial election from thousands of miles away. 
 
HSU: Most of the Taiwanese people overseas now we watch the talk show so political talk shows online and we discuss about, you know what's going on in Taiwan. Everything is real time.
 
KINKADE: The Taiwan center in Flushing is where many Taiwanese need to talk politics, exercise and take part in other activities. Because there is no absentee voting in Taiwan, many here are flying back to cast their vote.
 
WU: We help our senior members so a lot of them haven't gone back to Taiwan for like 30 or 20 years. So we help learn to fill out the form and setback to Taiwan so they will have election ticket to vote. KINKADE: The DPP a party both by China appears to have the most support in this community. Taiwanese here's their Beijing's attempts to steer support from a DPP to more China friendly candidates, like the KMT's, Hou Yu-Ih is a top concern.
 
HSU: We do see that there are more Chinese influences. There are much more usage over social media to influence the voters in Taiwan by providing misinformation.
 
KINKADE: Even if William Lai wins the election, DPP supporters via a narrow win could endanger his agenda. 
 
MING CHIANG, PRESIDENT, "HELLO TAIWAN": Without a clear majority, if DPP eventually when this election that you know, the President Lai will be facing a very formidable challenges because the opposition party, they might decide that to block out defer some of this important legislation. 
 
KINKADE: For now, Taiwanese in Flushing a watching waiting and praying for their homeland.
 
BETTY SHIAU, TAIWAN CENTER MEMBER: Taiwan is the lighthouse, the torch of the democracy human rights. I'm so concerned. So concerned about the life and future and fate of Taiwan, the precious Island.
 
KINKADE: Lynda Kinkade, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Israel rejected accusations of committing genocide against Palestinians before a top UN court on Friday straight ahead. The second and final day of arguments over Israel's military campaign in Gaza. That's coming up. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:41:13]
 
BRUNHUBER: Israel is drawing attention to the hostages still held captive in Gaza. The Israeli government released this video on Fridays it denied accusations of committing genocide before the top UN court.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: 136 hostages are still held captive in horrific conditions in Gaza. Hamas is guilty for war crimes.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: CNN's Melissa Bell has more from The Hague.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MALCOLM SHAW, LAWYER REPRESENTING ISRAEL: First, quarter genocide is intent without intent that can be no genocide in law. MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Israel defending itself on the second and final day of hearings at the International Court of Justice refuting claims by South Africa that its response to the attacks on October 7 violates the 1948 Genocide Convention.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The sitting is open. 
 
TAL BECKER, LAWYER REPRESENTING ISRAEL: It is respectfully submitted that the application and risk request should be dismissed for what they are a libel designed to deny Israel the right to defend itself according to the law. From the unprecedented terrorist on onslaught, it continues to face and to free the 136 hostages. Hamas still holds.
 
BELL: This after South Africa's lawyers argued on Thursday that Israel's leaders were intent on destroying the Palestinians as a group in Gaza.
 
ADILA HASSIM, LAWYER REPRESENTING SOUTH AFRICA: Following seventh October, Israel deployed 6,000 bombs per week. At least 200 times it has deployed 2,000-pound bombs in southern areas of Palestine designated as safe.
 
BELL" On Friday, Israel pushed back.
 
BECKER: The Genocide Convention was not designed to address the brutal impact of intensive hostilities on the civilian population. The Convention was set apart to address a malevolent crime of the most exceptional severity.
 
BELL: Israel's lawyers also arguing the genocidal acts were committed by her mass on October 7, when more than 1,200 Israelis were killed. 
 
BECKER: That if there have been acts that may be characterized as genocidal. There may have been perpetrated against Israel.
 
BELL: Outside the courts, the public's divisions and frustrations on clear display.
 
LAMA, PRO-PALESTENIAN PROTESTER: I'm waiting to see evidence of things they said because I think there's a lot of things that a lot of information that is misleading, and that is not really accurate. And so I'm waiting to see the evidence that they're about to bring forth.
 
BELL: Nearby pro-Israel supporters had laid a table for Shabbat with places set for hostages still inside Gaza. 
 
DAVID SARANGA, ISRAELI MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS (voice-over): On October 7, Israel was under attack. People were killed, murdered, butchered, raped, burned alive. And today we are the ones who are supposed to give explanations. It's unbelievable. 
 
BELL: The question of whether Gazans are the victims of a genocide could take years for the court to rule on far more pressing the question of if and how it will ask Israel to stop its war. Melissa Bell, CNN The Hague.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak visited Kyiv on Friday promising Ukraine more military funding as Russia's war grinds on. Now comes to the critical time on aid packages from the U.S. and the European Union remains stalled. Sunak also signed a new security agreement with Ukraine. It's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called unprecedented.
 <br>[04:45:19]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
RISHI SUNAK, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: Once said he strong signal of support to the Ukrainian people, but also a strong signal of support that Vladimir Putin needs to recognize. We're not going anywhere. I'm here with one clear message that United Kingdom stands with Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Now, during his trip, Sunak toured a military hospital in the Capitol and met with wounded soldiers. Solinsky awarded some of the medals and thank them for their service. All right. Still to come. Preparations are underway in Denmark, where the world's only remaining female sovereign will pass the crown and usher in a new era for one of the world's oldest monarchies. That's next stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
BRUNHUBER: United Airlines as it will ground its entire fleet of Boeing 737 Max 9 jets until at least January 16. Is that the planes won't fly until they're approved as confident the planes are 100% safe you know typically has about 2,000 or 200 rather Max 9 flights daily, 171 of the planes are grounded in the U.S. as Alaska Airlines and United await updated emergency inspection guidelines from the federal authorities. United's announcement comes one week after a terrifying incident on an Alaska Airlines flight when a door size section blew off the side of the plane in midflight. 
 <br>[04:50:25]
 
In Italy, outrage is growing over a viral video showing a massive crowd of men raising their arms in a fascist salute. That happened last week in the Italian capital and an event marking the 46th anniversary of the killing of three Neo fascists. Barbie Nadeau joins me now Rome. So Barbie, a strange and disturbing story take us through what happened, what it means and the reaction.
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: Yes. You know, it is strange and extremely disturbing. And probably the most disturbing part is this happens every single year for the commemoration of the death of the murder of these three young activists. What's especially disturbing though is the silence from the Prime Minister's Office Giorgia Meloni actually got her start in this Neo fascist party of which these young men were part of. That party doesn't exist anymore, but she melded that party that was the fascist party into her current much more moderate brothers of Italy party. You know, she hasn't commented on it except to say that the attacks gratuitous attacks, she called them on her government weren't appropriate at a time when our government was, as she says doing so well. 
 
She hasn't condemned the act, though. And that has a lot of people up in arms here across the country, and it doesn't seem likely that she's going to do it. It's a week ago, January 7, when they do this commemoration, it must be said that people have the right and left politicians do attend the commemoration. It was the fascist salute happened after those dignitaries left. But this fascist salute also happens every year, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. So this is going to be taken up by the European parliament on Tuesday. Do you think we'll -- we'll get a response then?
 
NADEAU: Well, you know, Giorgia Meloni in her little bit over a year now in office has proven herself a very moderate leader and she's been kind of the darling of European politics. A lot of people were nervous about her taking power. And now that she's been in for this period of time, she's done very well for the country. So this is going to be a very difficult moment for her in terms of whether or not she makes a comment when European Parliament talks about the threat and danger of Neo fascist parties across India, especially at this time, and we're seeing anti-Semitic attacks across Italy and other countries in Europe. Whether or not she'll feel compelled to comment in or around that European Parliament's debate remains a district camp but a lot of people are hoping she does. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. We'll be watching. Barbie Nadeau, thank you so much. Well, Sunday will mark the end of an era for Denmark the Danes beloved monarch Queen Margrethe, the second will abdicate the throne and her oldest son, Prince Frederik will become King. CNNs Max Foster has more on this historic occasion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A new year, a new era for Denmark and for one of the world's oldest monarchies. Queen Margrethe II will end her reign of more than half a century. A shocked decision delivered in a live address to the Danish people on New Year's Eve. 
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II, DENMARK (voice-over): I have decided that now is the right time. On the 14th of January 2024, 52 years after I succeeded my beloved father, I will step down as Queen of Denmark. 
 
FOSTER, (voice-over): Denmark's ruler became Europe's longest reigning monarch after the death of Britain's Queen Elizabeth in 2022. Queen Margrethe put the decision down to her fragile health. Recent surgeries on her back have limited her royal duties.
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II: The time takes its toll and the number of ailments increases. One cannot undertake as much as one managed in the past. 
 
FOSTER, (voice-over): That sense of duty, won the hearts of the Danish people and drew comparisons to Queen Elizabeth to who Margrethe look to for some inspiration. Danish Prime Minister Meta Fredriksen was quick to praise the only monarch that many Danes will ever have known. 
 
"On behalf of the entire population, I would like to extend a heartfelt thank you to Her Majesty the Queen for her lifelong dedication and tireless efforts for the Kingdom." Fredrickson wrote in a statement. 
 
Like other constitutional monarchies, the Danish sovereign stays above politics but feathers can be ruffled. In 2022 the Queen removed the titles of prince and princess from the children of her second son, Prince Joachim. It was an effort to reduce the royal establishment and allow her grandkids more privacy. But Prince Joachim went public with his four children's hurt feelings and Queen Margrethe later apologized but did not change her decision. 
 <br>[04:55:12]
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II: Was more pressure on the young people of today than they were when I was when I was a child.
 
FOSTER, (voice-over): My greatest decision to abdicate places the weight of the crown upon her eldest son's head, Prince Frederik, a man equally faithful to the crown, but with a slightly more reserved public persona. Frederik will rule alongside his Australian born wife, Princess Mary. The royal couple met at a bar in Sydney during the 2000 Olympics, Mary Donaldson, a marketing executive from Tasmania swept into a fairy tale. 
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II: I really like her very much indeed. And she, I hope, knows that and feels that.
 
FOSTER, (voice-over): The new queen won't have far to look for a role model. Max Foster, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: All attention all you Buffalo Bills fans out there, the NFL team called for all hands on deck to help them dig out of a state of emergency due to an upcoming storm. Up to three feet of snow is forecast Highmark Stadium ahead of Sunday's Wildcard Playoff game against the Pittsburgh Steelers so they'll send out this appeal. Shovelers can shovel snow throughout the night on Saturday into Sunday morning if needed. Respective snow shovelers are asked to dress appropriately for the weather and to bring their own shovels if possible. Now they're offering $20 an hour. Probably get more shovelers if they offered them tickets. 
 
And finally forget about building a snowman. How about sculpting a 20 foot great white snow shark? That's what one artist in Cedar Rapids Iowa did this week. The creation quickly turned into an Instagram worthy stop for visitors. All right, that wraps this hour of CNN Newsroom. I'm Kim Brunhuber. I'll be back with more news in just a moment. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)