Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump's Hush Money Trial Began with Opening Statements and a First Witness; Son of Myanmar's Pro-Democracy Leader Speaks to CNN on the Fears of His Mother's Detention Move to House Arrest. Pro- Palestinian Protests Sweeps Universities in the U.S.; U.S. Supreme Court Grappling on the Homelessness Measure Act in Some Cities; Chinese People Dressed Gross Outfits as a Rebellion Against Youth Unemployment. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired April 23, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to all our viewers watching from around the world. I'm Anna Coren, live from Hong Kong. Ahead on CNN Newsroom. 
 
Chilling allegations of war crimes. A U.S. report sheds light on the atrocities suffered by civilians in the Israel-Hamas conflict, including the disappearance of thousands of Palestinians. 
 
Plus controversy and arrests at pro-Palestinian protests unfolding on college campuses across the U.S. 
 
And Myanmar's military says former leader Aung San Suu Kyi has been moved from prison to house arrest. We'll speak with her son to learn what he knows of his mother's condition.
 
The U.S. has listed Israel among countries with human rights issues, citing cases of systemic torture and inhumane treatment of Palestinian detainees, as well as the forced disappearance of thousands of Palestinians from Gaza. 
 
The assessment is part of the State Department's annual report on human rights around the world, released Monday by Secretary of State Antony Blinken. The report also covers cases of killings, abductions and sexual violence by Hamas and other groups during the October 7th attacks on Israel. Blinken points out the report does not represent the U.S. government's conclusions, but relies on a wide variety of sources, including government officials, abuse victims, international organizations and the media. And he says the U.S. applies the same standard for all. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Do we have a double standard? The answer is no. As this report makes clear, in general, as we're looking at human rights and the condition of human rights around the world, we apply the same standard to everyone. And that doesn't change whether the country in question is an adversary, a competitor, a friend or an ally. And that's hugely important.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: For more, let's bring in CNN's Nada Bashir, live from London. Nada, what more are you learning from this report? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, look, Anna, there have long been concerns around human rights abuses committed by Israeli authorities against Palestinians, both in Gaza and in the occupied West Bank. And as you mentioned, this report from the State Department relies on accounts from both independent individuals, but also, of course, international organizations. We've certainly heard those concerns from U.N. agencies, as well as other human rights organizations in the past. 
 
Now, one of the key highlights from this report is a stark warning from the State Department, saying that they have seen reports of systemic torture and cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment and punishment of Palestinian detainees in prison facilities since October 7th. That is certainly something that we have also seen in our own report. And we've met with Palestinians who were detained and in hiding in the occupied West Bank, who had also detailed accounts of mistreatment.
 
There's also the issue of thousands of Palestinians who have said to have faced forced disappearances, their whereabouts simply unknown, according to the International Committee for the Red Cross, which is cited in the State Department report. There are some 4,000 cases that they have listed. So this is a significant and stark statistic featured in the State Department report. They've also highlighted allegations of exceptional measures being used by Israel's security forces when it comes to interrogating detained Palestinians.
 
We've obviously been hearing lots about the treatment of Palestinian detainees in the past, particularly when it came to that truce agreement between Israel and Hamas and the release of many Palestinian detainees, many of them, of course, who were children, minors under the age of 18 who were under administrative detention, meaning no ongoing legal process, no clear charges laid against them. So these are significant concerns around the human rights abuses faced by the Palestinian community in both Gaza and the occupied West Bank. 
 
There are concerns more broadly about what is happening now over the course of the war. That has certainly been raised over the last 48 hours following the discovery of a mass grave in Khan Younis. Some 300 bodies discovered so far, of course, under international humanitarian law. 
 <br>[03:04:56]
 
These graves must be respected, must be clearly identified and maintained, but clearly that is not what has happened here in Khan Younis, really raising concern over the treatment of Palestinians and, of course, the treatment of Palestinians even in death inside Gaza. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (voice-over): For the last 10 days, this mother has returned to Gaza's Nasser Hospital, searching desperately for the body of her 24- year-old daughter, Kothar. She had been buried at this makeshift grave site in January. 
 
Now her body is missing. 
 
The Israelis turned the hospital upside down, she says. They dug up all the dead bodies and moved them around. 
 
These are the shrouded corpses of those retrieved from a newly discovered mass grave in Khan Younis. 
 
Nearly 300 bodies have so far been recovered, according to Gaza's civil defense. But the search is still ongoing. 
 
This is a crime against humanity, Dr al-Maghaya says. How could the Israeli occupation forces dig up these graves and mishandle the bodies of our martyrs? In some cases, they even opened and removed the bodies from their bags, even though their names had been marked on them.
 
Many of the bodies recovered here were buried by relatives or medics on the hospital's grounds in January as a temporary measure. 
 
Israel's relentless bombardment of the southern city making it too difficult to carry out a traditional burial. 
 
Following the IDF's withdrawal from Khan Younis, families returned in the hope of finally laying their loved ones to rest. Only to find that their bodies had been exhumed by the Israeli military, according to civil defense officials, and discarded in this nearby mass grave. 
 
Yes, I still haven't found my son Khalil's body, this father says. We had buried him over there, but we can't find him anymore. We just want to give him a dignified burial. 
 
According to Gaza's civil defense chief, some bodies have been discovered with their hands tied together. An indication, he says, that these may be the victims of alleged field executions.
 
Though CNN is unable to verify such claims and cannot confirm the causes of death among the bodies being unearthed. 
 
CNN has reached out to the Israeli military for comment without response. But this would not be the first time graves have been disturbed by the Israeli military.
 
The IDF previously acknowledging that its forces have exhumed graves in Gaza in order to carry out DNA tests to identify potential hostages. 
 
This man points to the palm tree beside which his brother, Alaa, had been buried. Two weeks on and his body has still not been found. Under international humanitarian law, graves must, in times of war, be respected, properly maintained and marked so they may always be found. But in Gaza, the Palestinian people have been robbed of their dignity, even in death. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR: And of course, it is still unclear how many more bodies may be discovered in this mass grave. That search is still very much ongoing. And of course, there are countless families now in Gaza, waiting, looking for their loved ones they had thought were buried back in January, but clearly now are still missing. 
 
COREN: Nada Bashir, we certainly appreciate your reporting. Thank you. 
 
Donald Trump's historic hush money trial began in earnest Monday, with the prosecution and defense laying out their cases for the first time to the jury. The first witness also took the stand. 
 
Trump is facing possible prison time if convicted, as well as fines for allegedly violating a gag order. This is all tied to accusations that he covered up payments to a former porn star to keep voters from finding out about their affair. More now from CNN's Kara Scannell.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARA SCANNEL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Prosecutors opened their case, saying it all boils down to a conspiracy and cover-up, that Trump orchestrated a scheme to corrupt the 2016 presidential election and covered it up by lying in his business records. 
 
Assistant District Attorney Matthew Colangelo saying it was election fraud, pure and simple. 
 
Trump attorney Todd Blanche argued the former president is innocent. Blanche also claimed there is nothing wrong with trying to influence an election. 
 <br>[03:09:58]
 
In his remarks, Colangelo, a lead prosecutor on the case, said the alleged crimes began at an August 2015 meeting between Trump, Michael Cohen, and ex-"National Enquirer" publisher David Pecker, the first witness to testify in the trial on Monday. 
 
Colangelo said the three formed a conspiracy at that meeting to influence the presidential election by concealing negative information about Mr. Trump in order to help him get elected. 
 
The prosecution said Pecker agreed to help by damaging information on Trump to make it go away, a move known as catch-and-kill. At the center of the case, a $130,000 payment to adult film star Stormy Daniels just weeks before Election Day in 2016. 
 
The prosecution said a sexual infidelity, especially with a porn star on the heels of the Access Hollywood tape, would have been devastating to his campaign. 
 
So at Trump's direction, Cohen negotiated the deal to buy Daniels' story to prevent it from becoming public before the election. Trump has denied having an affair with Daniels. Prosecutors said Trump did not want to write the check himself, so Cohen put up the money. 
 
Colangelo argued Trump, Cohen, and former Trump Organization CFO Allen Weisselberg agreed Cohen would be paid back in monthly installments through fake invoices to the Trump organization. 
 
In a nod to Cohen's past credibility issues, prosecutors said key witnesses like Cohen have made mistakes in the past and encouraged the jury to keep an open mind and carefully evaluate all of the evidence that corroborates Michael Cohen's testimony. 
 
Then it was Trump's attorney's turn. Blanche said the D.A.'s office should never have brought this case. He said the prosecution's story is not true and the jury will find plenty of reasonable doubt. 
 
He pivoted to paint Trump as a husband and father, saying he's a person just like you and just like me. Trump's team suggested the payments Trump made to Cohen were not a payback for funds paid to Stormy Daniels, but instead payments to his personal attorney. Trump defended himself against these charges after court on Monday. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: He puts in an invoice or whatever, a bill, and they pay and they call it a legal expense. I got indicted for that. 
 
SCANNELL (voice-over): Blanche shifted blame to Cohen, saying the reality is Mr. Trump is not on the hook, is not criminally responsible for something Mr. Cohen may have done years after the fact. Blanche said the prosecution's outline of a supposed catch-and-kill deal with Pecker was not a scheme, but completely irrelevant and not illegal. 
 
In the afternoon, as Pecker briefly took the stand, he did not look at Trump, but Trump looked directly at him as he testified. 
 
Kara Scannell, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: CNN legal analyst Joey Jackson joins me now from New York. Joey, great to have you with us. Let's discuss the highlights from day one, starting with the prosecution's opening statement. Did he lay out a compelling case, you know, covering up the payment was, quote, "election fraud, pure and simple"?
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: You know, Anna, I really think the prosecution did. Now, obviously, it's going to be a long trial and open statements are merely a preview of what the evidence will show. But as an initial matter, just talk about right away, this case is about a cover up and a conspiracy. 
 
I thought just really going right at the defense at that point, talking about the issues of fraud, talking about the issues of, you know, really getting these business records as not as we look there at the 34 felony counts punishable by four years. Trump, of course, denying it. 
 
But these business records really as something of a pretext, a pretext really covering up hush money payments. 
 
And I think the prosecution also made this about the larger issue, not the salacious issue about Stormy Daniels, but the issue about election interference, the issue about the nature of why these payments were made. Right? And the payments being made to influence the election. 
 
And that's important because it's not just about the falsification of business records. It's about why they were falsified. And so I just think as a general matter, in opening up the case, the prosecution was very clear on the nature of the fraud, the purpose of the fraud and the illegality of the fraud relating to the president's cover up in this case. 
 
COREN: And Joey, Trump's lawyer will try to minimize what occurred. I mean, he's already referred to it as business record violations, just 34 pieces of paper. He will stick with the argument that Trump had no intent, no knowledge. How will that wash with the jury? 
 
JACKSON: Yeah, you know, so remain to be seen. I thought the defense did an effective job of basically saying, hey, there's nothing to see here. Of course, he influenced the election. He was running for president. And in a democracy, that's what people do. 
 
And in terms of this, this non-disclosure agreement, people sign those every day. So what he's protecting his family. And as to matters of business records of fraud, my client doesn't know anything about that, right? 
 <br>[03:15:03]
 
As we look there at just the entirety of the jury who's there to hear the case. But the reality is, is that I think the defense is using what they have certainly attacking Michael Cohen as a person who can't be trusted, a person who's guilty of perjury that is lying under oath. Stormy Daniels, the unsavory life that many will think she had.
 
And so they that is the defense went after that and went after the issue of reasonable doubt and how so much of it exists, suggesting that Trump is completely innocent. Obviously, any case, Anna, is a battle of the narratives, which narrative stands is going to be the result of the evidence that we're going to see how that evidence is rendered. And of course, how it falls upon the jury.
 
COREN: Joey, the judge will rule on whether Trump has violated the court issued gag order that bars him from attacking witnesses, prosecutors or family members of the judge, which we know Trump has done. How do you expect the judge to rule? 
 
JACKSON: You know, this is a very important test for the judge, because I think the judge has to set the tenor and have the understanding that, listen, this is a court process. You're going to respect my court and respect my rulings. And there's the larger imperative of protecting these witnesses from intimidation. 
 
You know, we live in a world where it's very polarized. You know, the United States is an issue now where you have half the public is for Biden. Half of it is for Trump. And you have some fanatics out there who can do harm. 
 
And so in speaking to the gag order, there's a reason it's in place. You want to protect people. You want to protect them from intimidation. You want to protect their safety. 
 
And so I think the judge will find that there was a violation of gag order. The critical issue on is what the judge does as a result of that.
 
Is it merely an admonishment of telling Trump, listen, this time I'll let it pass the next. It's not going to be the case. Will the judge be sterner and say, I'm going to give you a $1,000 fine for each violation or will the judge take the really critical step, which I don't think at this point the judge will do. And that is to put Trump in jail, even if for a short period of time that is hours to let him know. Stop it. Lives are at risk and we have to have a fair trial for all the parties and everyone should be protected. 
 
COREN: Joey Jackson, we appreciate you joining us. Thanks so much. 
 
JACKSON: Thanks, Anna.
 
COREN: Well, still ahead. Anger in Russia over a new U.S. aid bill for Ukraine. But Russian media have nothing but praise for one Congress member who tried to block it. 
 
Plus, the son of Myanmar's former pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi fears for his mother's health and safety after she was reportedly moved from the prison where she was serving a decades-long sentence. I'll speak with him after a short break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
COREN: A delegation of U.S. lawmakers visited Kyiv on Monday as the U.S. Senate prepares to vote on a massive foreign aid package this week, which includes $61 billion for Ukraine. The Congress members paid their respects to fallen soldiers laying flowers at a memorial. They also met with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who's praising the U.S. for its support. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Four priorities, they are key. Protection of the sky, modern artillery, long range capability, and ensuring that American support packages arrive as soon as possible. And today's result is that all the dots have been dotted in the agreements on the ATACMs for Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Congress. Thank you, America. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, Russia says the aid package won't change anything on the battlefield. But as CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports, Ukrainians see the renewed U.S. support as reason for hope. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Russian troops advancing in a heavy firefight in eastern Ukraine. 
 
This video from Russian military TV claiming to show Ukrainian soldiers having to surrender.
 
Ukraine's howitzers often unable to support their frontline units, severely lacking 155-millimeter artillery shells. But now they hope that will change. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): We'll defend ourselves and counterattack.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Kremlin-controlled media seething after the House passed the Ukraine aid bill, while praising Republican Representative Marjorie Taylor-Greene for trying to derail it. 
 
OLGA SKABEEVA, RUSSIAN TV ANCHOR (through translator): Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor-Greene, who "New York Post" already dressed in a Ushanka hat with a star, officially putting her in the ranks of Kremlin agents, called Speaker Johnson a Democrat elected by Ukraine. Greene also said that Johnson betrayed not only Republicans, but the whole of the USA. Nonetheless, the U.S. military aid will be bigger this year compared to the past years. And of course, there is nothing good in that. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Russia's foreign minister going even further, threatening nuclear confrontation.
 
SERGEY LAVROV, RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): Westerners are teetering dangerously on the brink of a direct military clash between nuclear powers, fraught with catastrophic consequences. Particularly that it's the troika of Western nuclear states that are among key sponsors of the criminal Kyiv regime. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Ukraine is in desperate need of lots of artillery ammo, Kyiv says, badly outgunned by Vladimir Putin's forces.
 
But also air defense missiles, with Russia drastically escalating its missile and drone campaign against Ukraine's cities and power plants. 
 
Ukraine's president saying he's grateful for the aid, but the weapons need to come fast. 
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): The time between political decisions and inflicting real defeats on the enemy at the front, between the approval of the aid package and providing the strength to our guys, this should be reduced to a minimum. PLEITGEN (voice-over): And the Ukrainians hope U.S. aid will arrive quickly and change the tune on the battlefield, allowing Kyiv's forces to stop further Russian advances. 
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well, now to the civil war in Myanmar. The country's military junta is dealing with some biggest setbacks in decades, a devastated economy and a series of defeats in small-scale battles against rebels across the country. 
 
The KNU rebel group raised their flag last week in a critical trade town along the Thai border. But junta troops have been trying to take back the territory and fighting flared up again over the weekend. 
 
Myanmar has been in crisis since 2021 when the junta launched a coup deposing the democratically-elected civilian government. Growing anger over military rule has evolved into a nationwide resistance movement. 
 
Well meantime, the son of Myanmar's former leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, says he fears for her health and safety. The pro-democracy leader, a Nobel laureate, has been detained since that military coup. She was recently moved from a prison to house arrest, according to the military. 
 
Myanmar's military government says she was moved to protect her from overbearing heat. But speaking with Reuters, her son said he believes the junta leadership are using her as a human shield. 
 <br>[03:24:56]
 
Well Kim Aris, son of Myanmar's former leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, joins me now from London. Kim, thank you so much. Tell us about the last correspondence or contact that you had with your mother.
 
KIM ARIS, SON OF AUNG SAN SUU KYI: Well, the last I actually heard from my mother was when I received a letter from her in January of this year. That was after I'd sent her a care package along with a letter back in September last year, when we heard that she was very unwell. And that was the first time I was allowed to send her anything since before the coup. 
 
COREN: And Kim, tell me, what are you learning about her condition, her state of mind and her health? 
 
ARIS: From the letter, I gather that the conditions she's been held under are pretty barbaric. I think at that time she was very cold, whereas now I believe it's unbearably hot in Burma. And the cell she's in doesn't provide any sort of, you know, insulation against either the heat or the cold. So I also know that she's been suffering from ongoing dental problems, which is making eating extremely difficult. 
 
COREN: Kim, you talk about the unbearable heat and the junta says that they have moved her from the prison to house arrest because of this heat wave. Do you believe that? And what are their motives, I guess, of making this information public? 
 
ARIS: It's hard to know their motives. And as far as whether she's been moved or not, that's questionable as well. There's conflicting reports coming out. 
 
In the past, they have said that she's been moved to house arrest, and that has proved to be completely not the case. Her only house is the house that she has in Rangoon, and she's definitely not there. 
 
COREN: So where do you believe that Aung San Suu Kyi is right now? 
 
ARIS: I believe she's either still in prison or she's in the residence of a military official. 
 
COREN: You have said in some of your interviews with the press that you believe the junta is using your mother as a human shield. Can you please elaborate? 
 
ARIS: Well, as the fighting is getting closer and closer, I think it serves the military's purpose for the resistance forces not to know where my mother is, so that they find it harder to target strikes against the military in Naypyidaw. The less they know of my mother's whereabouts, the harder it is for them. 
 
COREN: As we know, the junta is under enormous pressure. They're facing losses to rebel groups on the battlefield. What more can you tell us about the situation on the ground from the people that you speak to in Myanmar? 
 
ARIS: I'm afraid I don't have access to any more news than anybody else. What comes out of Burma is very sporadic, and nobody really knows what's going on on the ground, I think. But by all indications, the military are losing ground everywhere, and according to the best estimates, the resistance forces are in control of more than 60 percent of the landmass. 
 
COREN: Kim, tell me, what sort of contact does your mother have with the outside world? You mentioned this letter that you have received, the first in, what, three years since she's been under arrest. What about contact with her lawyers? Does she speak to them on a regular basis? 
 
ARIS: No, she's not been allowed to meet with her legal counsel. I believe they've been trying to meet for some time and nothing has come of that. As far as I'm aware, she's not been able to see anybody outside of military personnel or prison personnel since last year at some point, I think was the last time she saw her lawyers. 
 
COREN: Kim, Aung San Suu Kyi, as you know, is serving a 27-year sentence. Do you believe that you will see your mother again, that you will one day soon be reunited? 
 
ARIS: I do believe I will. I don't think the military will be able to hold on to power for too much longer. The situation in Burma is unsustainable. The economy, well, is broken. The health system is broken. There is no
 
 law and order in Burma at the moment. And if that is to be restored, then the military needs to hand back power to the civilian government.
 
COREN: Kim, your mother has sacrificed so much, you know, decades of her life, her family, for her political beliefs. What do you believe will be your mother's legacy? 
 
ARIS: I believe she will be remembered for leading Burma into democracy through a peaceful revolution.
 
I know that that democracy was tenuous and it has now been broken by this military coup. But that democracy has given the youth of Burma today the taste of freedom which they deserve. And I hope that that will carry through into the future.
 
COREN: We can only hope that your mother will be there at the forefront. Kim, we thank you for your time. We are thinking of you and your family and of Aung San Suu Kyi.
 
ARIS: Thank you, Anna. 
 
COREN: Well turning to other news, we are following a developing story out of Malaysia, where news agencies report that 10 people have been killed after two helicopters collided in midair. It happened at a naval base in the western part of the country during a rehearsal for a Royal Malaysian Navy parade. AFP reports the Prime Minister has sent his condolences to the families of the victims. He says the defense ministry will conduct an investigation. 
 
Well tensions escalate across universities in the U.S. as pro- Palestinian protests show no signs of slowing down. How some campuses are reacting, that's next. 
 
Plus, a landmark case on homelessness reaches the U.S. Supreme Court. How the ruling could impact cities across America, coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Well dozens of protesters in Israel gathered outside Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's home on the first night of Passover on Monday. They decided not to participate in the traditional Passover meal this year, instead demanding that the government make a deal for the release of the remaining hostages held in Gaza. More than 130 hostages still remain in Hamas custody. Some of them are believed to be dead.
 <br>[03:35:10]
 
Well meantime, pro-Palestinian protests are sweeping across universities in the U.S. amid the Passover holiday. This was the scene at New York University on Monday night. Police say they moved in after protesters refused to disperse and numerous students and faculty members were arrested. The protests have spread to other college campuses as well. Columbia University, the epicenter of the protests, says all classes
 
 at its main campus will be hybrid until the semester ends April 29th. As CNN's Isabel Rosales reports, some Jewish students say they are terrified.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDREW STEIN, COLUMBIA STUDENT: I was assaulted in the middle of campus. This is an actual crisis and an imminent threat.
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Tensions boiling over at Columbia and other top universities like MIT, NYU and Yale, where at least 45 protesters camping on college grounds, were arrested early this morning by the Yale University Police Department.
 
Yale University releasing a statement saying the university would not tolerate behavior that interfered with university operations or threatened, harassed or intimidated others. 
 
The arrests on college campuses coming as verbal confrontations between pro-Palestinian protesters and Jewish students have escalated into physical ones. 
 
ELISHA BAKER, COLUMBIA STUDENT: My friend on Saturday night was full- blown assaulted. He was shoved around.
 
STEIN: My friend had a flag stolen out of his hands and rocks thrown at his face. 
 
ROSALES (voice-over): Columbia Monday resorting to canceling in-person classes and calling for a reset to de-escalate the rancor. 
 
A rabbi linked to the university urging Jewish students to stay home, saying the events have made it clear that Columbia University's public safety and the NYPD cannot guarantee Jewish students safety. 
 
The hostilities at Columbia growing for months alongside peaceful protesters camping in this tent city, the encampment and the fear drawing criticism from business leaders like New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who says he will no longer be donating to his alma mater, though he financially supports the Jewish Hillel on campus. 
 
ROBERT KRAFT, CEO, NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS: I just can't believe in New York City at Columbia University, Jewish students are afraid to go to classes. 
 
ROSALES (voice-over): The rebuke coming amid calls for action from congressional leaders who toured the Columbia campus today. 
 
REP. DANIEL GOLDMAN (D-NY): That is unacceptable for a university. That is unacceptable for an academic institution. And all universities have an obligation to maintain the safety and security of their students from all backgrounds. 
 
ROSALES (voice-over): The NYPD saying they're prepared to enter Columbia's campus if they're called in and pointing to the heavy police presence just outside Columbia's gates. 
 
UNKNOWN: Any kind of violence is not going to be tolerated. And that includes harassment.
 
ROSALES: Let me give you a sense of the movements that we've seen from these demonstrators here on the campus of Yale Monday morning. That is when we saw tensions really rising between police officers and demonstrators and when they were asked to disperse those that didn't. 
 
Well, we saw them arrested and charged just under 50 of them. That area, a university plaza just in that direction, now has been blocked off by police cruisers and yellow tape. 
 
Then a couple of hours after that, we saw them occupying a public road just a couple of blocks that away. When officers told them to leave, they did. 
 
And now they are gathered here in front of the university's library. At times, we hear them chanting, singing, displaying the Palestinian flag as well. 
 
Meanwhile, New Haven's mayor putting out a statement saying that their first amendment right to protest, that is important. But it is also important that it is done in a quote, "safe and orderly manner". 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Isabel Rosales reporting there. 
 
Well, the Biden administration is issuing a new rule to protect the privacy of those seeking reproductive health care. The measure prevents using medical records against people for providing or receiving care, even if they've traveled to another state for that care. Meanwhile, the U.S. Supreme Court is set to hear arguments in a challenge to Idaho's abortion ban. The U.S. Justice Department will argue that federal law requires hospitals to offer abortions if necessary to stabilize the health of emergency room patients, even in states that ban the procedure. 
 
The U.S. Supreme Court is grappling with another case that could decide if ticketing homeless people is cruel and unusual punishment that violates the Constitution's eighth amendment. 
 <br>[03:40:06]
 
CNN's Jake Tapper looks at how this ruling could have a major impact across the country. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR (voice- over):  It's been called the most significant court case on homelessness in decades, now reaching the U.S. Supreme Court. 
 
At the center of the case is Grants Pass, Oregon, a small town which, like many others in America, has an affordable housing problem. HELEN CRUZ, FINED FOR CAMPING: There is absolutely no housing in
 
 Grants Pass, Oregon. There is no shelter available for anybody that's out there. We have no place to go. 
 
TAPPER (voice-over): Hundreds of homeless people in Grants Pass began setting up encampments in public parks. In 2013, the city stepped up its enforcement of anti-camping laws, banning anyone from sleeping outside with any kind of bedding, including a blanket, pillow, or even a cardboard box. Penalties included fines starting at $295 or 30 days in prison for repeat offenders. 
 
CRUZ: I have a lot of tickets from Grants Pass. I was almost $5,000 worth. 
 
TAPPER (voice-over): But with extremely limited public shelter space in Grants Pass, the people affected by the fines sued, saying the tickets violated their eighth amendment rights against cruel and unusual punishment. 
 
CRUZ: We are human beings and we belong there too. Just because we don't have everything that they have doesn't mean that we don't belong.
 
ED JOHNSON, DIRECTOR OF LITIGATION, OREGON LAW CENTER: People living outside, like all Americans, have the protection of the Bill of Rights. And the protection not to be criminalized and punished for your status is one of the most fundamental, long-standing rights that we all have. 
 
TAPPER (voice-over): The lower courts agreed, blocking the city from enforcing the law. 
 
THEANE EVANGELIS, ATTORNEY FOR GRANTS PASS, OREGON: The eighth amendment prohibits cruel methods of punishment that have fallen out of use. It has nothing to say about what policies cities can enact as a basic matter of health and safety and protecting everyone in the community. 
 
TAPPER (voice-over): And now the decision is in the hands of the U.S. Supreme Court. And the court's ruling could impact how cities across the country handle the homelessness crisis. 
 
Republican Governor Ron DeSantis recently signed a law banning people from sleeping in public spaces in Florida. 
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL): This issue that has plagued communities across the country where these homeless camps overwhelm just the quality of life. 
 
TAPPER (voice-over): Democratic Governor Gavin Newsom of California filed a brief calling on the U.S. Supreme Court to quote, "establish a balance that allows enforcement of reasonable limits on camping in public spaces while still respecting the dignity of those living on our streets". 
 
People such as Helen who have no way of paying the fines say it ruins their credit making it even harder for them to find housing. 
 
CRUZ: It's pretty much just destroyed my credit and you know when a person's so far down and they're just trying to get ahead, they can't. 
 
TAPPER (voice-over): Advocates say criminalization is expensive and does nothing to provide solutions to the housing crisis. 
 
JESSE RABINOWITZ, CAMPAIGN AND COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, NATIONAL HOMELESSNESS LAW CENTER: As rents become higher and higher we will see more and more homelessness and our elected officials need to respond with proven solutions like housing and services not with jails and fines. 
 
TAPPER (voice-over): Jake Tapper, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: India's Prime Minister is hoping for a third straight term and finding support in the country's most populous state. More on that plus the criticism Narendra Modi is facing from the opposition. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: India's Prime Minister is facing backlash from members of the opposition and the Muslim community amid accusations of delivering Islamophobic remarks during an election rally. 
 
In a speech to a large crowd on Sunday, Narendra Modi appeared to refer to the Muslim community as quote, "infiltrators". 
 
Well this comes as India votes in a weeks-long election which the Prime Minister is widely expected to win. CNN's Will Ripley traveled to a massive rally in Uttar Pradesh to speak with some of his supporters. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We are underneath a giant tent with thousands of people a few hours outside Delhi in Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state. I have no idea how many people are here, easily thousands if not tens of thousands and they are all here to see the man who is standing on that podium right now, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. 
 
I am not exactly sure what compels people to come out to events like this other than just the pure excitement and spectacle of it and what people are saying is that they came out here to show their support, show their support for a politician that they believe listens to them and delivers on his promises to them. 
 
So how many times have you come to one of these? 
 
UNKNOWN: Fifth time. 
 
RIPLEY: This is your fifth? Your fifth time. Why do you keep coming back? 
 
UNKNOWN: My Prime Minister favorite leader in all over world. 
 
RIPLEY: Do you know the crowd is going to be very big here? 
 
UNKNOWN: Yeah. 
 
RIPLEY: Why do so many people want to come? 
 
UNKNOWN: Because they are excited for seeing Narendra Modi. Actually the main reason is that he is a very nice leader. 
 
RIPLEY: You can tell anybody who is wearing orange, saffron is the official color of the BJP and some of these are grassroots organizers who have been really instrumental in Prime Minister Modi's success, the largest democratic exercise in the world and this is what it looks like at one of the hundreds of rallies that Modi has held since becoming Prime Minister 10 years ago. 
 
That may be why it seems that the BJP and Prime Minister Modi is an unstoppable behemoth in this election which is going to go on for six weeks here in India in seven different phases including here in India's most populous state of Uttar Pradesh. 
 
Will Ripley, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well meantime India's opposition has come together accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his BJP party of going after his critics to silence them. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN (voice-over): A late night convoy of vehicles through the streets of India's capital last month set off shock and anger as Delhi's Chief Minister in the back seat had just been arrested on charges of corruption. 
 
Arvind Kejriwal is the fourth and most senior leader of the Aam Aadmi Party to be arrested for corruption while India's largest opposition party the Indian National Congress recently had funds frozen. 
 
Both parties claim these actions are politically motivated as Modi and his ruling BJP eyeing a third term in office try to eliminate all opposition. 
 
In a rare show of unity opposition parties came together for a rally against what they believe is an undeniable threat to the nation. 
 
RAHUL GANDHI, INDIAN NATIONAL CONGRESS PARTY: There's no democracy in India today. The idea that India is the world's largest democracy is a lie. It's a complete lie. COREN (voice-over): Earlier this month AAP Education Minister Atishi
 
 claims she was threatened with arrest unless she joined the BJP.
 
COREN: Atishi do you think that you will be arrested? 
 
ATISHI, AAM AADMI PARTY: I think it's entirely possible. 
 
COREN (voice-over): The Oxford Educated Minister now effectively running the AAP says Modi and the BJP have weaponized government agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate and Tax Department to go after their critics. 
 
ATISHI: So today these federal agencies are being used to destroy the opposition and I think this raises very serious questions about free and fair elections and a level playing field in the country.
 <br>[03:50:03]
 
COREN (voice-over): Claims the BJP denies. 
 
JAIVEER SHERGILL, BHARATIYA JANATA PARTY: Does Prime Minister Narendra Modi condone anybody crossing the red line of political decency? Does Prime Minister Narendra Modi tolerate anybody tearing the basic fabric of our constitution? No. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is very strict. 
 
COREN (voice-over): Polls suggest Modi and his BJP led coalition will win the general election. But his Hindu nationalist policies and clampdown on civil rights and freedoms have these voters enraged. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): Our democracy is being murdered. India is becoming a dictatorship. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): We are here to fight the lies and the false propaganda this government has used to feed the public. 
 
UNKNOWN: Brand Modi is about the global faith in the Indian economy. 
 
UNKNOWN: With Modi, chance. 
 
UNKNOWN: The opposition is completely in tatters. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): Pro-government media dominates the airwaves, which means voices like Ravish Kumar, arguably one of India's most prominent journalists, are being silenced. 
 
Having received death threats for his coverage, he resigned after a business tycoon considered close to Modi bought the company he worked for. Kumar now broadcasts on YouTube, where he's still allowed at the moment to voice his dissent. 
 
RAVISH KUMAR, JOURNALIST (through translator): If a country as big as India has accepted that it can achieve glory without the media, and if it has accepted that any claim doesn't need to be verified or debated. 
 
COREN (voice-over): While international leaders embrace Modi and the unrivaled potential of his powerhouse economy, critics say the world needs to wise up to what is really happening. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Coming up on "CNN Newsroom", the economic outlook for young people in China has some trading office casual clothing for office gross out. The story behind these intentional fashion failures is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: A new style for workplace attire is trending in China, dressing gross for work. And it has some asking, who wore it worse? Our ever stylish Marc Stewart is live in Beijing. Marc, what is going on in China? 
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is an interesting reflection, Anna, of the social and the economic environment here in China.
 
You know, I think what I'm wearing right now is pretty much considered to be business casual. But for some young people in China, it's perhaps even too formal, too dressed up. Let me show you exactly what we're talking about. 
 
Young people are embracing this idea of what they are calling gross outfits to work to show their displeasure, their disdain toward the workplace. So for example, we saw a young man wearing sweatpants and a flannel shirt. Another post which has been scoured across social media is a young woman wearing pajamas with a bulky sweater. People are not wearing high heels. They're not wearing business suits. What's in right now are things like puffy jackets, like slippers, a way to show discontent for what's happening in the Chinese economy. 
 
Right now, a lot of young people feel that they are working very long hours for very low pay and for bosses who perhaps are not the best of employers, bad bosses. 
 <br>[03:55:09]
 
It's an extension of this idea of lying flat, a concept here in China that really rejects these ideas of consumerism and of the rat race, which is very prominent in many workplaces right now. 
 
The Chinese economy has been suffering and young people are not immune from it. In fact, if we look at some economic data that came out at the end of last year, the jobless rate for young people is around 15 percent, nearly 15 percent. 
 
So there is clearly a lack of optimism and clothing is a way to express that. If we look at some of the captions on some of these posts across social media, some that caught our eye. One person said, my ugly outfit matches my salary. 
 
Another posting says, how gross my work is, how gross will my outfit be? 
 
It's something that we've seen here in the winter months, but there's a lot of chatter that it's a movement that will continue into the spring. People trying to think of lighter clothing to wear that will fit this category of being gross, you know, Anna, it's not unusual for young people to express themselves through music, through art, through writing. 
 
But for the moment here in China, fashion is this vehicle of expression. 
 
COREN: Well, power to them. I say that, you know, stylish Marc Stewart, we know that you're wearing your sweatpants, maybe your PJs underneath. We'll speak to you later. Thank you. 
 
Well, from worst dress to best dress, Taiwanese drag queen Nymphia Wind has received praise of the highest order after winning "RuPaul's Drag Race". She's the first person from East Asia to take the crown. Taiwan's president congratulated Wind on Instagram Saturday, stating, quote, "Taiwan thanks you for living fearlessly". Taiwan hosts East Asia's largest pride march every October. 
 
Well, Britain's Prince Louis is celebrating his sixth birthday today. The third child of William and Catherine, the Prince and Princess of Wales, is fourth in line for the throne. Royal watchers are hoping Catherine posts a picture of the celebration, though the Kensington Palace social media accounts have been quiet so far. The Princess of Wales has been off the radar since disclosing a cancer diagnosis last month. Well, that came after controversies surrounding pictures she posted online. 
 
Well, thanks so much for your company. I'm Anna Coren. "CNN Newsroom" continues with Max Forster, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)