Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel, Hezbollah Ramp Up Fighting After Device Attacks; Japanese Schoolboy Stabbed Near School In China Dies; With Little Prospect For A Deal; Harris Teams Up With Oprah To Broaden Her Outreach To Persuadable Voters; Upcoming Winter Will Be Most Difficult For Ukraine's Energy Sector; Evacuated Israeli Town on Border with Lebanon; Settlement Expansion Intensifies in the West Bank; Germany Tests E.U. Unity with New Border Controls; Inquiry Hears New Details about Doomed OceanGate Voyage; Thai Woman Freed after Being Strangled by Python for Hours. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired September 20, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:26] 
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome everyone. I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company. Coming up here on CNN Newsroom, Israel and Hezbollah increased cross border attacks on each other, following two days of targeted attacks against the Iran-backed militants inside Lebanon.
 
Japan demanding answers after the second knife attack on Japanese children in China, this one deadly, and a woman in Thailand recounts how she survived hours in the grip of a monster Python.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with Michael Holmes.
 
HOLMES: Welcome everyone. Israel and Hezbollah are ramping up their fighting in the wake of the twin device attacks in Lebanon earlier this week. Israel's military carried out dozens of fresh strikes on Thursday, hitting what it says for about 100 Hezbollah rocket launchers, a weapons depot and other sites in southern Lebanon. Iran- backed Hezbollah said it launched at least 17 attacks on Israeli military sites in northern Israel using drones and rockets. 
 
Israeli authorities say at least eight people were taken to hospitals and urged residents to stay indoors and avoid gatherings. 
 
Meanwhile, more funerals were held in Beirut, following the consecutive days of booby trapped pages and walkie talkies exploding throughout the country. Those explosions killing at least 37 people, including two children, and wounding nearly 3,000. 
 
Israel, a CNN rather, has learned that Israel was behind Tuesday's attacks, though Israeli officials have not directly commented on either day's explosions. Israel's defense minister saying Hezbollah will pay a quote increasing price. The leader of Hezbollah vowing retaliation in his first public comment since the attack, saying Israel had crossed all red lines. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HASSAN NASRALLAH, HEZBOLLAH LEADER (through translator): The reckoning will come its nature, scope, when and where. That's something we will definitely keep to ourselves within the tightest circle, even within ourselves, because we are in the most precise, sensitive and deeply significant part of the battle.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: CNN's Ben Wedeman with more now from Beirut.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Final prayers for Hezbollah militant, one of many killed in the spate of pager and walkie talkie blasts across Lebanon, linked to Israel, outside others pay respects to the family. 
 
The blast killed dozens, including children, and wounded thousands. 
 
WEDEMAN: This is a memorial and graveyard for Hezbollah fighters killed in action, and what the group has seen since the beginning of this week is its highest death toll since the start of hostilities with Israel last October. 
 
WEDEMAN: The group supporters, however, are putting on a brave face. The enemy is terrified of us, Beirut resident Meriam (ph) tells me, they're afraid. They attack us with planes, we fire back with rockets and bullets. But there's no denying the attacks have taken the serious toll. Surgeon Ghassan Abu Sitta has treated the war injured across the Middle East, most recently in Gaza. 
 
GHASSAN ABU SITTA, SURGEON: So the problem is we don't have enough equipment because of the sheer number. And more importantly, these are surgery -- these are injuries that will need between five and 12 surgeries in the next few years.
 
WEDEMAN (voice-over): In a televised speech, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah conceded the group had suffered a major unprecedented blow, and called it a mass terrorist event. While the speech was broadcast, Israeli war planes roared over Beirut. Adding perhaps insult to injury.
 
Yet Nasrallah insisted Hezbollah is unshaken. I say to Netanyahu, Gallant, the enemy army and the enemy entity, he declared, you will not be able to bring the residents back to the North. He vowed Hezbollah will stop firing on Israel when Israel stops its war in Gaza. And then Israel warplanes returned, breaking the sound barrier twice over the Lebanese capital. Ben Wedeman, CNN, Beirut.
 
(END VIDEOTAP)
 <br>[01:05:10]
 
HOLMES: And Steven Cook, Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and nonpartisan U.S. think tank. Always good to see you, sir. The U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres said, the logic of making all of these devices explode was that of a, quote, preemptive strike before a major military operation. Do you think that's it? That it's the first act of a bigger play, especially given what we saw on Thursday?
 
STEVEN COOK, SENIOR FELLOW FOR MIDDLE EASTERN COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS: Well, it's clear that the Israeli Defense Minister has made the case that this is a new chapter in Israel's ongoing fighting with Hamas and now turning its attention to Hezbollah. 
 
So certainly, the Israeli press, of course, is filled with stories about the fact that Hezbollah actually discovered these booby trap devices, and that's why the Israelis moved on Tuesday when they did. But clearly the Israelis are focusing their attention now in the north. There's a sense here that the war in Gaza is wrapping up, that Hamas has been damaged to the extent that it cannot threaten Israeli security like it did a year ago, and that it is now time to turn attention to returning Israeli residents to their northern communities.
 
HOLMES: And what damage do you think is done to Hezbollah operationally? I mean, if they can't use cell phones or pages or two- way radios, if hundreds of members taken out of action effectively, what damage is done to Hezbollah as an effective fighting force?
 
COOK: Well, I think it was interesting that Hassan Nasrallah made the case that this was a very significant blow to the organization. And although he vowed retaliation, he used the time honored at our time in choosing. I think this is a very significant blow. It's hard to imagine after all of these Hezbollah operatives and commanders have been injured in these unprecedented James Bond like attacks that Hezbollah can really muster the type of massive response that some suggest this calls for. 
 
Of course, they have a huge arsenal of rockets, missiles and drones, some of which they used last night, but the barrage on Israel last night was relatively modest in comparison to what we've seen in recent months. 17 attacks is not a lot in terms of recent months, where you've seen 40, 50, or more in overnight clashes. 
 
HOLMES: Yes indeed. Hassan Nasrallah, again, he called it a massacre. A number of groups have said it could violate the rules of war and certainly ethics. What was done with these pagers and two ways, and some have pointed out that if, you know, Hezbollah somehow put explosives into the cell phones of Israeli reservists and detonated them simultaneously around Israel in public, it would undoubtedly be seen as an act of terrorism, given the large numbers of civilian, not military casualties in Lebanon. I mean, is there a risk that Israel could be seen as carrying out a terrorist attack as some have suggested?
 
COOK: The Israelis are absolutely unapologetic about what they have done. Hezbollah has been firing from their perspective, firing on civilians for a year now, forcing them to evacuate from their homes. Hezbollah has tremendous amount of both Israeli and American blood on their hands, and Israeli see this as, rather than an act of terrorism, a precise operation against their enemies. 
 
They see the outrage and calls about international humanitarian law just the same that they've been hearing over the last year as they, from their perspective, have been defending themselves against Hamas and Hezbollah, and at this point, as I said, are unapologetic and ignoring these criticisms.
 
HOLMES: I'm curious your thoughts on whether this opens a Pandora's box in terms of the technology and the implementation of it more broadly. I mean, if Israel can do this, others can, or will eventually, surely be able to. Can we expect this sort of tactic to be used in other conflicts by terror organizations and so on?
 
COOK: It is something to be concerned about. Although I don't carry a beeper, I carry a phone. I will be getting on a plane later today. The thought has crossed my mind, what happens when nefarious actors can get into people's electronics, and what kind of damage that may cause. 
 
Once again, I don't think the Israelis are thinking about that they are thinking about defending their state and returning their people to to their homes. They've also hinted that they have many other tricks up their sleeve to throw Hezbollah off balance in order to achieve their war aims. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, yes. As always, top days ahead. Steven Cook, thanks for getting up early. Appreciate it. Safe travels.
 
COOK: Thanks. Take care.
 <br>[01:10:06]
 
HOLMES: An Israeli official telling CNN that one of Netanyahu senior advisers has given the Biden administration a new proposed ceasefire and hostage deal with Hamas. It would include safe passage for Hamas leader, Yayha Sinwara, to be exiled out of Gaza, that's according to Khan 11, an Israeli broadcaster, and the immediate release of all hostages held there in exchange for Palestinian prisoners held by Israel. 
 
Hamas has not commented on the proposal, but American officials believe it is unlikely Sinwar would ever leave Gaza. The hostages families forum initially praised the outline, but later called it a quote cynical and cheap manipulation.
 
Kamala Harris bringing star power to the campaign trail in Michigan, Oprah Winfrey hosting the Unite for America virtual rally on Thursday for the U.S. Vice President. It was an event the Harris campaign saw as a big moment to reach a broad range of voters.
 
During their discussion, Winfrey said it felt as if a veil had dropped after President Joe Biden suspended his presidential bid. Winfrey then telling Harris that she appeared to have stepped into her power as Democratic nominee. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OPRAH WINFEY, AMERICAN HOST AND TELEVISION PRODUCER: Literally looking at you at a speech like the week before, which was a great speech, very nice. And then the next week are you walking in the thing. And I said, what happened to you?
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: You know we each have those moments in our lives where it's time to step up.
 
WINFEY: Time to step up.
 
HARRIS: Time to step up.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Earlier, I spoke with CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein, and asked him how much these celebrity associations actually help with voters, he said, essentially, not much. Meanwhile, Donald Trump made some alarming remarks about Jewish voters in the U.S. on Thursday, they came while he was trying to woo Jewish voters at an antisemitism event in Washington, DC. CNN's Alayna Treene has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Adjusting Jewish supporters at a pair of events in Washington, DC, Thursday evening, the former president suggested that Jewish Democrats would be partially to blame if he were to lose the election in November. He also repeated a frequent line that Jewish Democrats or Jewish Americans, I should say that vote democratically should have their heads examined. Take a listen to what he said. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: I'm not going to call this as a prediction, but in my opinion, the Jewish people would have a lot to do with a loss if I'm at 40 percent. If I'm at for think of it, that means 60 percent of voting for Kamala, who in particular, is a bad Democrat.
 
TREENE: Now to be clear, Donald Trump has repeatedly used this antisemitic trope to argue that Jewish Americans who did not vote for him, or who planned to not vote for him and instead vote for the Democrats, are not sufficiently Jewish, while also simultaneously arguing that he is the most pro-Israel president in U.S. modern history. 
 
Now, Donald Trump also claimed on Thursday that Israel would cease to exist if Kamala Harris were to win in November and not him. Again, this is something we have heard from Donald Trump. He also continued to argue that he would end the war between Israel and Hamas without offering any specifics. 
 
But look, the goal of the pair of events on Thursday evening was for Donald Trump and his campaign to really try and court Jewish Americans who are feeling disaffected by the way that the Biden administration and Kamala Harris as Vice President are handling the war in the Middle East. That was the goal of this tonight, and it also comes on the heels of Donald Trump having had a tiff with Miriam Adelson, a major mega donor, over the summer, where one of his top aides had sent a series of angry texts to her. 
 
Since then, they have repaired the relationship. You saw Miriam Adelson introduced Donald Trump at both events, but this is a very important moment for Donald Trump in a key voting bloc that he is really trying to shore up support with, which is 47 days left until Election Day. Alayna Treene, CNN, Washington, DC.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: As we're saying, I spoke with CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein earlier, and asked him about these celebrity associations, and if they help.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: That was a lot of star power at that event tonight. I mean, Julia Roberts, Meryl Streep, Chris Rock, Ben Stiller. Look, celebrities don't change people's votes. There's really no history of them doing that. 
 <br>[01:15:00]
 
What they can do, though, is help you in a variety of tangible ways. They can help you raise money. They can help you draw attention. And maybe the most important thing they do, Michael, is they widen the bandwidth of your communication. 
 
You know, part of the problem candidates run into in the presidential year is that you get up to a big enough turnout in the presidential race. That includes a lot of people who can't really be reached through the normal political channels, who are not watching cable news, who are not reading the newspaper, and who are not really even watching some of the shows that they advertise on. 
 
A celebrity appears in different ways in people's lives, different ways in their social media streams, different kinds of information sources, and they might help you reach voters who are very hard to reach otherwise.
 
HOLMES: I know that you were saying to me earlier that there's something about where this was held as well in the context of polling. Tell me about that.
 
BROWNSTEIN: Yes, if Kamala Harris wins the presidency, it will because it exactly of the kind of place where this was held tonight. This was held in Oakland County, which is a white suburb outside of Detroit. From 1968 to 1988 it voted Republican six straight times. It's voted Democratic in every election since then, by widening margins, and particularly what we saw in 2022 in places like Oakland County, Michigan, the four suburban counties outside of Philadelphia, the wow counties outside of Milwaukee, and Dane County in Madison. What we saw in 2022 after the Supreme Court rescinded the nationwide
 
 right to abortion, is that Democrats expanded their margin in these places even wider than they were under Joe Biden in 2020 and given Trump's trying out blue collar white voters, particularly in small, midsize communities, Harris is going to need huge margins in places like Oakland County, particularly from women, the kind of women who are in that event tonight. 
 
And this, I think, is, you know, it was perfectly placed in that way, because it was in the epicenter of where she needs to perform the best.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Ron Brownstein there, speaking with me earlier. Now, a diplomatic rift has opened between China and Japan, and the stabbing death of a young Japanese boy in China has just made it worse. We'll look at the rise of nationalism in China after the break. 
 
Also, we'll take a closer look at the growing violence in the West Bank, where hundreds of Palestinians have been killed since the war in Gaza began.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: The upcoming winter will put Ukraine's power grid through its toughest test yet. That's the word from the International Energy Agency, after Russia recently ramped up its attacks on Ukraine's electric system, it's already been battered so much that power blackouts are now part of the daily life.
 <br>[01:20:02]
 
But the Energy Agency says those disruptions could become severe when temperatures drop and the demand for heat rises.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FATIH BIROL, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY: Because of the previous attacks under a Ukrainian energy infrastructure, two- thirds, two-thirds of the power generation capacity of Ukraine was lost. And we are coming to winter. As you know, when the temperatures drop, energy demand increases, and this could be a major issue for electricity and for heating in Ukraine. 
 
URSUAL VON DER LEYEN, EUROPEAN COMMISSION PRESIDENT: 80 percent of Ukraine's thermal plants have been destroyed and a third of the hydropower capacity. So this is where we will concentrate our repair efforts, with the aim to restoring 2.5 gigawatts of capacity this winter. That is approximately 15 percent of Ukraine's needs. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The European Union will contribute more than $100 million to accomplish that goal. Among other things, Lithuania will dismantle one of its thermal power plants, which will be reassembled in Ukraine. The storm system known as Boris is expected to wrap up its devastating
 
 tear through Europe in the coming hours, the storm system made its way south to Italy this week, bringing with it torrential rain and destructive floods right across the country. The National Fire Department said it carried out more than 500 rescue operations in Northern Italy as burst water basins left towns unrecognizable.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): It's something that truly gives me the creeps. Every time you see certain things. It really breaks your heart seeing your own city like this. I've lived here for 27 years, and it's the first time I've had to get around by boat when I usually ride my bike. It's really something shocking, something that gives you chills. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Boris is expected to finally fizzle out by this weekend, the E.U. chief Ursula von der Leyen announced on Thursday, 10 billion euros will be given to member nations impacted by Boris's heartbreaking floods. 
 
Meanwhile, in China, the impact from tropical depression Pulasan has been minimal so far. The storm made landfall south of Shanghai on Thursday, it is expected to turn to the east in the coming hours, bringing heavy rain to much of South Korea and northern Japan throughout the weekend. South Korea could see more than 250 millimeters or 10 inches of rain through Saturday.
 
Diplomatic tensions heating up between Tokyo and Beijing after the second knife attack on a Japanese citizen in China in recent months, a 10-year-old Japanese boy died on Wednesday after being stabbed on his way to school in the city of Shenzhen. Nationalism and anti-Japanese sentiment are on the rise in China, often fanned by state media, And now demand Japan is demanding an explanation from China.
 
For more, Hanako Montgomery joins me from Tokyo. Tell us more about the case. What's behind it and the significance of the date?
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Michael, this brutal attack occurred just 200 meters away from this young victim's school. And in terms of what else we know, Chinese authorities are currently investigating the potential motive behind this brutal murder. 
 
But in the hours after the attack, locals in the southern city of Shenzhen have been laying down flowers for the young boy and his bereaved family members. We also know that a couple of Japanese companies have been allowing their Japanese employees to return to their home country in case they're afraid for their lives and their families' safety. 
 
Now we also know that there's been an urgent demand for Chinese authorities to better protect the lives of foreigners in the country, even though violent crimes like this one are rare in China. There's been a spate of recent stabbing attacks that have caused some concern. For instance, in June, we saw four American college instructors stabbed in China. Just two weeks later, a Japanese mother and her son were also stabbed at a bus stop. A Chinese bus operator who intervened later died from the injuries she sustained during that attack. 
 
Now these concerns were also echoed during the Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida press conference on Thursday, where he described the attack as a quote such a despicable crime in a serious and grave matter. He also added, such an incident must never be repeated. We strongly urge the Chinese side to ensure the safety of Japanese people. 
 
Now, Michael, in terms of the significance of this date, it's important to note that this attack occurred on the anniversary of the 918 incident, which is a date that commemorates the beginning of the Japanese invasion of China back in 1931 on September 18. 
 <br>[01:25:03]
 
Now this is a date that's fraught with tension with grief and, of course, anger, and it's also a date that state media and the Chinese government often urge its citizens to never forget. Now again, of course, we don't yet know what the motive was behind this attack, but many on Chinese social media speculate that it could have been racially motivated and fanned, in part by state media and anti- Japanese sentiment. 
 
In fact, in the hours after the attack, extremist nationalists posted on Chinese social media speculating that the attack could have been planned or staged by Japan, and even questioned why Japanese schools exist in China. Now, these posts were censored by Chinese social media platforms. But of course, it speaks to the fraught tensions that currently exist between China and Japan, and of course, the very sad loss of life. Michael.
 
HOLMES: Yes, absolutely Appreciate the reporting. Hanako Montgomery, thanks so much.
 
Still to come here on the program, ghost towns dotting Israel's northern border with Lebanon after months of cross border fighting, residents are desperate to return home. We'll have their stories.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Returning now to our top story, the U.S. urging restraint and diplomacy as Israel and Hezbollah ramp up there fighting with growing fears of a wider regional war. Israel's military says it struck about 100 Hezbollah launchers and other sites in southern Lebanon in the past 24 hours. The strikes coming a day after Israel's defense minister said a new era in its war effort was beginning, and after booby trapped wireless devices exploded throughout Lebanon.
 
Israel's military chief on Thursday approving plans for what it called the northern arena. Hezbollah claimed responsibility for launching at least 17 attacks across the border against Israeli military sites on Thursday. The leader of the militant group saying the attacks will continue until the war in Gaza ends. Thousands of civilians in both Israel and Lebanon have had to flee their homes due to the cross border attacks and the daily occurrence since October. CNN's Nic Robertson went to one Israeli border town where the few remaining residents are desperate for a return to normalcy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): A ghost town close to the Lebanese border, Kiryat Shimona, a shadow of its former self, most of its 25,000 residents evacuated last October. Silence and weeds where once there were people. 
 <br>[01:30:00]
 
Almost all of the stores here are shut and frozen in time now for close to a year and it feels as forlorn as some of the few people who stayed behind sound.
 
NISAN ZEEVI, JVP IMPACT DIRECTOR INVESTMENT: So now everything is empty after --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ROBERTSON: Empty offices.
 
ZEEVI: -- empty offices, empty labs. Before October 7th, we have had here in the upper Galilee 72 startups.
 
ROBERTSON: From fungal plastics, the fake eggs, the EV sourced hundreds of millions of investment dollars for Israel's up and coming high tech hub in the north.
 
ZEEVI: It's a very sad feeling, because in each one of these offices, there were people, entrepreneurs from all over Israel that came here to build the next big thing in agro-tech, in food-tech, in climate- tech. 
 
Welcome to my humble house, humble place.
 
ROBERTSON: So on this side, a beautiful view of Mount Hermon and on this side, Hezbollah.
 
ROBERTSON: When we last met Zeevi nine months ago, he was hopeful his evacuated family and his old life would be back soon. Fast forward to now, it's a distant memory.
 
ZEEVI: We thought that we're living the dream, building startups not in Tel Aviv and living in a small shoe box, but living here in the -- at the Galilee.
 
ROBERTSON: A new reality is setting in getting his family back the dream and the startups --
 
ZEEVI: It is going to be a challenge -- challenging time. I think we went back like 30 years. ROBERTSON: So too David Azuli, mayor of nearby frontline town, Metula. Much more optimistic when we met him in January. Now ground down by Hezbollah's incessant attacks and the government's failure to stop them.
 
DAVID AZULI, MAYOR OF METULA (through translator): Things got a lot worse. Almost half the houses in Metula are damaged. The government has forgotten about us. The prime minister only cares about his own political survival.
 
ROBERTSON: Not helping the mood Hezbollah's attacks have been spiking lately and despite the minister of defense promise to get families home by the beginning of September, the IDF's response falling short of everyone's expectations here.
 
Was it burning when you arrived?
 
RON MOISESKO, ARMY RESERVIST: Yes, it was already burning the trees. There's a school over there, right over there, that's got some (INAUDIBLE) as well.
 
ROBERTSON: The school was hit as well?
 
MOISESKO: Yes, the school was hit as well.
 
ROBERTSON: Even soldiers like Moisesko, who is from Kiryat Shmona, there is frustration.
 
MOISESKO: It's tiring to wait that long. The war is endless. We need to do something, maybe in a more aggressive way or in a peaceful way, just need to do something.
 
ZEEVI: Eventually we are the one that's paying the price. We're like -- just like a player on a chess. Now we want to come back home.
 
ROBERTSON: Not down, not out but flagging.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Kiryat Shmona, Israel.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: CNN's Fareed Zakaria recently sat down with former U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton. During their wide-ranging discussion. Clinton talked about the war in Gaza and where she sees that heading.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FAREED ZAKARIA, CNN HOST: Secretary Clinton, when you look at the situation in the Middle East right now, what do you think is the -- is the principal driver of this -- of what's going on, you know, the fact that you have Israel in a war in Gaza. The escalation -- or seeming escalation in the north.
 
How do you -- you know, what would you -- give us a sense of how you understand that conflict. HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Yes. well, it's tragic. The attack last October 7 on Israel was outrageous and they had a right to defend themselves as I think anyone who understands what happened would agree. And I've also made it clear that Hamas is a terrorist organization. 
 
Israel does have that right to defend itself, but Israel has to abide insofar as possible by the, you know, the laws of war. 
 
And, and this conflict has been so intractable for several reasons. I think on the one hand, you have Hamas, especially under the leadership -- the continuing leadership of Sinwar that has not wanted a ceasefire. I've tried to follow this very closely. 
 <br>[01:34:46]
 
CLINTON: They have been betting on a larger conflict. They thought they might trigger a larger conflict. The timing of their attack, I think it's fair to say, was meant to send a message to Saudi Arabia about the potential normalization. 
 
So Hamas is not just continuing the war because they are on their back heel and they are worried about what will happen to them, the Hamas leadership and fighters. But because they are hoping to spark something bigger.
 
And then Israel, which has been, you know, waging a ground invasion in large measure because of these tunnels, which I was surprised by, I mean we knew when I was secretary of state that you had to keep an eye out for tunnels coming from Egypt that were bringing in contraband goods, even weapons.
 
But 450 miles of tunnel and places that are staging grounds, command and control, obviously hiding places -- it's very difficult for the Israelis to figure out how the war can end if they have a couple of thousand Hamas fighters still hiding in the tunnels.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And you can see the full interview with Hillary Clinton this Sunday on "FAREED ZAKARIA GPS". That's 10:00 a.m. in the morning Eastern time, 3:00 p.m. in London.
 
Now as fighting continues in Gaza, the Occupied West Bank has seen a major escalation of violence. The Israeli military pushing in, expanding an offensive in recent weeks. This coming as settlers continue a campaign of targeting Palestinian civilians and infrastructure. 
 
The Palestinian ministry of health says nearly 700 Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank since October. 
 
This coming as settlement expansion continues in the occupied territories, as you can see in this graphic with information from the Israeli advocacy group, Peace Now.
 
The group also points out that back in July, the Israeli government approved the largest land seizure in the West Bank in three decades.
 
Yael Berda is an associate professor of sociology and anthropology at Hebrew University. She's also a visiting scholar at the Middle East -- Middle East Initiative and joins me now live from Tel Aviv. 
 
And thanks for doing so. 
 
So the world is, of course, focused on Lebanon and Gaza. But what do you see unfolding in the West Bank in terms of what you call a takeover by stealth and unfolding annexation while the war in Gaza distracts the world.
 
YAEL BERDA, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, HEBREW UNIVERSITY: Yes, I think -- I think, first of all, thank you for having me. These are such volatile times. We're at day 349 of this horrific war, the first is almost (INAUDIBLE).
 
And what we're seeing is that basically the government, and particularly Minister Smotrich, is basically carrying out what he calls the decision plan. And that plan is to take over, basically swallow the West Bank into Israel through the takeover of land. And it's being done in a way that people are still calling it annexation de facto, or creeping annexation, which is something that has been going on for at least a decade, if not longer. 
 
But now, I call it annexation by organizational means, through appointments and regulations and the transfer of (INAUDIBLE) authority from the military to the civilian ministry. 
 
We're actually talking about the takeover of the West Bank. The idea is first and foremost, to prevent any kind of political solution, to prevent a Palestinian state, to prevent Palestinian sovereignty, and basically eradicate the Palestinian national movement, which is who we need in order to have a political solution. 
 
HOLMES: The violent behaviors, some of the settlers is one thing, but another is the impunity for them and their actions, virtually no consequences. 
 
I mean Yesh Din which is an Israeli human rights group, you'd know, looked at I think it was 1,500 (ph) cases of settler violence between 2005 and 2023. 3 percent ended in a conviction.  And that surely emboldens those who carry out attacks on and displacement of Palestinians, right? 
 
BERDA: Yes but -- yes, absolutely but we need to understand that those numbers have been entirely upset now because of what we call here the judicial overhaul or the regime coup. 
 <br>[01:39:51]
 
BERDA: And that means that any kind of legal barriers be it the judiciary -- the judiciary, be it the legal advisers of the government, or even legal advisers of the military -- there is nothing standing in the way of the settlers in their -- both in their expansion and in their violence of vigilantes and settler militia. HOLMES: Yes.
 
BERDA: Now, it's difficult to describe, and I'm sure that people say what are you even talking about? 
 
We're talking about people that are literally ruling land in areas in a violent way in order to get Palestinians off their land in order to prevent a political solution -- 
 
HOLMES: Yes.
 
BERDA: -- and a Palestinian state.
 
HOLMES: And you mentioned Smotrich. And Netanyahu needs the likes of extremists like Bezalel Smotrich and Itamar Ben-Gvir as well to keep his coalition together. 
 
But what has been the overall impact for Israel as a nation of having those two in particular wield such power and such influence over policy.
 
BERDA: Well, there's two aspects to it. So one aspect is what we just described, which is what they're doing in the West Bank in order to eradicate any possibility for political solutions and drive people off the land. That's one thing.
 
The other aspect is how Israeli society and the regime is changing at a pace that is unimaginable.
 
Right now, we are at a situation where Ben-Gvir has had -- took hold of both the police and the prison authority -- is not, is not listening or to the authority of the attorney general, is literally backing up both violence, torture, both in the West Bank and against Israeli protesters, which is a first for many Israeli citizens who are experiencing the practices that were reserved for Palestinians in a territory -- in the territory now being used against Israeli opposition to the government. 
 
HOLMES: Yes. Yes.
 
And you mentioned that many of these settlers are reservists in the IDF and they act against Palestinians while in uniform, they're not just violent settlers. They're effectively the law, as they carry out attacks. 
 
I mean, what recourse, what defense do Palestinians have as these sorts of attacks increase.
 
BERDA: Right now, there's absolutely nothing to stop the vigilantes, the already weak response of the military and the defense ministry is practically nonexistent. And what we see is also a failure to respond from Israel's opposition party who are just standing with their jaws dropping to this kind of spiraling into an authoritarian regime. 
 
And so I think sometimes people don't speak enough about what's happening under the guise of the terrible war on Gaza. And also, you know, with like I said, we're day 349 of this terrible moment with our hostages still not returned, with casualties in the tens of thousands in Gaza and with no prospect in sight that Netanyahu has any responsibility -- 
 
HOLMES: Yes.
 
BERDA: -- to provide Israel security and also to provide -- to keep Israeli society whole, which is another aspect of this. 
 
Now, one of the things that is really important is that as Smotrich and Ben-Gvir move to create a possibility where there's no viable political solution there are -- there is an awakening, very late one within Israeli civilian opposition to new ideas for political solutions and for thinking out of the box from the two-state solution. And different, different things that are happening. But for instance, a confederation that seems very far right now, but it's definitely something that is being talked about as a viable possibility -- 
 
HOLMES: Right.
 
BERDA: -- like they should have a land for all. But at the end of the day, what we're seeing is this relationship -- 
 
HOLMES: Right.
 
BERDA: -- between what's happening in the West Bank and the annexation and the authoritarian coup and the takeover within Israel.
 <br>[01:44:53]
 
HOLMES: It's such an important conversation to have. We're right out of time. 
 
Professor Yael Berda in Tel Aviv, appreciate it. Thanks so much. 
 
BERDA: Thank you.
 
HOLMES: Well, Germany imposes new border controls to stem the tide of migration into the country. But the move provoked pushback from neighbors and a dismissal from critics. We'll have that story when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Germany has completed a U-turn in its policy on migration this week, the country introducing new controls on all of its borders, which is a far cry from its migration-friendly approach of the last decade. 
 
The government has been under pressure to tackle the problem even though it has recently stepped-up deportations.
 
But as CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports, the move is putting European unity on the line.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Cars lining up at a border crossing where they normally breeze through. But Germany has brought back document and vehicle checks not just here in Frankfurt an der Oder at the border with Poland, but at all of its borders with E.U. countries.
 
Officer Tom Knie (ph) says they regularly find people trying to enter Germany illegally.
 
"It's daily business here that people don't meet the entry requirements for Germany," he says, "and perhaps even for the Schengen area, and then have to be subjected to further police measures."
 
Germany's problem -- many people from around the world continue to flee to Europe and many of them want to come to Germany, even though they should register in the countries where they first crossed into E.U. territory.
 
But those countries, Berlin says, aren't doing enough to stop migrants from moving on to Germany.
 
The new border checks are extremely controversial with other European Union member states. The Germans are saying they absolutely need to do this to stop the threat of terrorism, but also illegal migration. 
 
Other European countries, though, say that this destroys the very essence of a unified Europe.
 
The wave of mass migration to Germany started in 2015. Millions of people fleeing the wars in Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan crossed into the E.U., welcomed by then-German Chancellor Angela Merkel who boasted that Germany would manage the huge influx of people from abroad. 
 
But after nine years, many Germans are saying, "enough". Following a string of attacks carried out by former asylum seekers, leaving several people dead, voters are flocking to the right-wing Alternative for Germany Party, AFD that promises to stop migration and start mass deportations of migrants.
 
Severely sliding in the polls, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz now says he's getting tough.
 <br>[01:49:47]
 
PLEITGEN: "We will utilize all possibilities to carry out entry refusals within the framework of the law," he says. "And we've put a concept for effective entry refusal on the table, where we are prepared to do this with the opposition."
 
While the right-wing anti-migration Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban gleefully posted on X, quote, "Germany has decided to impose strict border controls to stop illegal migration. Bundeskanzler Scholz, welcome to the club."
 
Other European leaders have vowed to combat Germany's new border regime. "This type of action is unacceptable from the Polish point of view," Poland's prime minister said. "After all, I have no doubt that it is the internal political situation in Germany which is causing these steps to be implemented and not our policy towards illegal immigration on our borders."
 
And some migration experts believe Germany is not only putting itself at odds with the E.U., but that these checks will do little to stop illegal border crossings.
 
DR. RAPHAEL BOSSONG, GERMAN INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AND SECURITY AFFAIRS: I don't think the effect is going to be dramatic. I mean, it's mostly a political signal now to show, obviously, that the government is doing something and also to other European countries that they should shoulder a larger part of the responsibility.
 
PLEITGEN: Whether or not the measures work, they're already having a big political effect in Europe, putting the E.U.'s unity to the test.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN -- Frankfurt an der Oder, Germany.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Coming up a terrifying python attack in Thailand. Hear the 64- year-old victim describe her two-hour ordeal with a monster snake.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Unsettling revelations including never-before-seen footage has emerged during the U.S. Coast Guard's inquiry into the Titan submersible's ill-fated voyage to the Titanic wreckage.
 
Our Jason Carroll with the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Troubling details emerging about a test of the Titan submersible just days before it ultimately imploded.
 
STEPHEN ROSS, FORMER OCEANGATE SCIENTIFIC DIRECTOR: The pilot crashed into the rear bulkhead. The rest of the passengers tumbled about. One passenger was hanging upside down.
 
CARROLL: The revelations coming during a week of stunning testimony and harsh criticism before the U.S. Coast Guard's Marine Board of Investigation hearing.
 
DAVID LOCHRIDGE, FORMER OCEANGATE MARINE OPERATIONS DIRECTOR: There was a big push to get this done and a lot of steps along the way were missed.
 
CARROLL: Marine Operations Director David Lochridge was one of a number of former employees testifying about safety issues that had been flagged.
 
LOCHRIDGE: The whole idea behind the company was to make money. That's it. There was very little in the way of science.
 
CARROLL: The proceeding is part of an effort to determine what caused Titan's catastrophic implosion last year on June 18th and who, if anyone, was at fault and should be held accountable.
 
For the first time, the Coast Guard revealed never before seen video of Titan's wreckage on the ocean floor. All five on board were killed, including the OceanGate CEO Stockton Rush.
 
STOCKTON RUSH, FORMER CEO, OCEANGATE: You know, I've broken some rules to make this.
 
CARROLL: Lochridge testified Rush ignored safety concerns he raised about the Titan after inspecting it in 2018.
 <br>[01:54:49]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you have confidence in the way that the Titan was being built at this time?
 
LOCKRIDGE: No confidence whatsoever. And I was very vocal about that.
 
CARROLL: Lochridge says he was fired in 2018 after relaying his concerns. 
 
Experts warned Rush to get Titan classed or certified from a safety organization, citing concerns with materials used to construct its hull. But Titan's former director of engineering testified Rush did not want to wait or spend on that.
 
TONY NISSEN, FORMER OCEANGATE DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING: One of the days he was crying on my shoulder. It's going to take too long and way too expensive. It's ridiculous. And in his words, "it stifles innovation".
 
CARROLL: Today, mission specialist Renata Rojas supported Rush. She says OceanGate was about making dreams come true.
 
RENATA ROJAS, FORMER OCEANGATE MISSION SPECIALIST: Nothing is going to bring our friends back. I hope that this investigation creates an understanding that with exploration, there's risk.
 
CARROLL: Jason Carroll, CNN -- New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: A terrifying scene out of Thailand. A 64-year-old woman alive, thank goodness, after being wrapped up by a massive python for more than two hours. It all unfolded in her own kitchen. 
 
It took rescuers about half an hour to get her free. After the ordeal, she was able to describe exactly what happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ARROM ARJUNROJ, SURVIVED PYTHON ATTACK: While I was washing the dishes, I was also scooping water. As soon as I sat down the snake bit me. At first, I thought it was a cockroach but when I saw it was a snake and it started constricting me tightly, I fought with it for a while. 
 
At first, I grabbed the head trying to make it let go, but it wouldn't. It just kept squeezing tighter. When I saw it start to slither, I let go of its head and it slithered away. Then came back and finally went down below.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Police say they couldn't track (ph) the python. Snakes are common in Thailand. Officials say there were some 12,000 people treated for venomous snakebites last year. Python are not venomous, but they do kill people by squeezing them and suffocating their prey.
 
Easy to mix up with a cockroach though.
 
Thanks for watching and spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes.
 
Stick around. CNN NEWSROOM continues with my friend and colleague Kim Brunhuber, next.
 <br>[01:57:13]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)