Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Midnight Mass At Bethlehem's Church Of The Nativity; Notre Dame Cathedral Hosts First Christmas Mass Since 2019 Fire; Pope Francis Kicks Off Start Of Catholic Holy Year. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired December 25, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:01:06] 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: It is Christmas across the globe, from the Vatican to Buckingham palace to right here in the United States. How people are celebrating one of the most special days of the year and -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You tramped all the way from Minnesota. Why is that? I wanted to catch a spark. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you're traveling in the North Country fair. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BOLDUAN: It is also one of the biggest movie weekends of the year. Will Bob Dylan break the box office? And any last-minute shoppers still out there? Let's be honest, guys, got the perfect gift idea for you. How about a lottery ticket worth $1.1 billion? 
 
Good morning, everybody. Merry Christmas. Happy Hannukah. Happy, happy. I'm Kate Bolduan here in New York. Pamela Brown is off today. Welcome to a special holiday edition of CNN Newsroom. 
 
Worshippers gathered for a midnight mass at Bethlehem's Church of the Nativity, the site many consider the birthplace of Jesus. It's now a site in the shadow of war, of course, the surrounding violence making for more subdued festivities this time. 
 
And in Paris, thousands packed the pews of the Notre Dame Cathedral to attend the first Christmas Mass there since reopening earlier this month following that devastating fire back in 2019. Officials there expect to see at least 40,000 visitors per day during the holiday season. 
 
And at the Vatican, Pope Francis spoke about the war in Ukraine and the humanitarian situation in Gaza in his Christmas address. This marks the start also of a holy year for the Catholic Church and it's considered a time for peace, forgiveness, and pardon. 
 
Now the British royal family getting in on all of the action, attended morning service at Sandringham Church. Notably absent Harry and Meghan and their children. And just moments ago, Buckingham palace released King Charles annual Christmas message.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KING CHARLES III, BRITAIN: As the Famous Christmas carol once in Royal David City reminds us our Saviour holy, came down to earth from heaven, lived among the poor and mean and lowly, and transformed the lives of those he met through God's redeeming love. That is the heart of the Nativity story, and we can hear its beat in the belief of all the great faiths in the love and mercy of God in times of joy and of suffering, calling us to bring light where there is darkness. 
 
All of us go through some form of suffering at some stage in our life, be it mental or physical. The degree to which we help one another and draw support from each other, be we people of faith or of none, is a measure of our civilization as nations. This is what continually impresses me as my family and I meet with and listen to those who dedicate their lives to helping others. 
 
I am speaking to you today from the chapel of the former Middlesex Hospital in London, now itself a vibrant community space, and thinking especially of the many thousands of professionals and volunteers here in the United Kingdom and across the Commonwealth, who with their skills and out of the goodness of their heart, care for others, often at some cost to themselves. From a personal point of view, I offer special heartfelt thanks to the selfless doctors and nurses who this year have supported me and other members of my family through the uncertainties and anxieties of illness and have helped provide the strength, care, and comfort we have needed. I am deeply grateful, too, to all those who have offered us their own kind words of sympathy and encouragement. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 <br>[11:05:44] 
 
BOLDUAN: Also back here tonight marks the first night of Hanukkah and thanks to the very early winter nights these days. The lighting of the 30-foot national menorah in Washington is going to take place this afternoon. 
 
Showing you video from last year's event. That is when second gentleman Doug Emhoff, the first Jewish spouse of any vice president, attended the event. The lighting of the National Menorah dates back to 1979. 
 
Also this morning, when we're talking Christmas and the holidays, we're talking weather and watching it very closely. A series of storms is creating some messy travel conditions for people out west with winter weather bringing snow, slick conditions to the roads, especially in Northern California. On the east coast, millions in New York City saw their first white Christmas Eve in more than a decade. 
 
Let's get back to meteorologist Chad Myers at the very latest on this one. Chad, what is the forecast, and how is Sasquatch feeling about it? 
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN WEATHER CORRESPONDENT: He's getting more snow out there in California and Oregon and more rainfall, just one storm after another. Now a little bit farther to the east in the Mississippi River Valley, some rain. There's not a lot of travel that really goes on today. Really short trips, just maybe across town from hotel to grandma's or whatever it might be. But really not a lot of problems, especially airport delays. 
 
The snow is still on the ground in many spots, but now the sun is burning it off even in New York City. So it was a white Christmas Eve, maybe not a white Christmas Day for some, but still snowy, obviously, all the way back to Minnesota. Here's the rain from St. Louis all the way back down to almost New Orleans. And you'll see a few little lightning bolts here. 
 
So there could be some thunder and lightning. For your forecast, New Orleans, you'll take it because it has been such a drought-ridden year in the lower Mississippi River Valley. Take the rain when you can get it. 
 
Now I'm going to push you ahead until Sunday. That's the next really big travel day. So it rains across the Midwest on Thursday and even into Friday. But by the time we get into Sunday, all of a sudden you get rain. New York, BWI, all the way down to Philly and Atlanta. And that could certainly slow some things down. There will be more snow in the Pacific Northwest and a lot of people have already had enough. There's a lot of rain in lower elevations. Snow above about 5,000 feet. 
 
Look at the ski resorts out here. Mammoth Mountain has already had 85 inches of snow. And remember, Kate, we've only been in winter for four days now officially, although obviously, it starts earlier in the higher elevations. 
 
BOLDUAN: That whole thing of like when winter officially starts, it always boggles my mind because I'm cold much sooner than when winter officially apparently declares that it has begun, so. 
 
MYERS: Right. 
 
BOLDUAN: I think it's like in the eye of the beholder is where this one kind of stands. Wait, so you're talking snow out west? Is there more snow? I mean, what -- people are going to be traveling a lot, right? We've got the end. We've got the end of Christmas holiday, New Year's travel coming up. What should people be looking out for? 
 
MYERS: More rain than snow in the east for sure. Let me see if I can go back. The rain that was a part of the Mississippi river event right now and all the way down to Louisiana. This is the rain that's going to be on up into D.C. and New York City by the time we work our way into Sunday. That's the story, I think the rain, the low clouds, but no snow. You're going to be driving in the rainfall. 
 
One more thing about this winter solstice thing. This is when the sun is as low in the sky as it's going to get. You're going to be driving if it's clear into the sun. And with that low sun angle, if you clean the inside of your windshield, it'll be a lot less glare. I know people clean the outside with that little squeegee thing. Clean the inside with a towel and some Windex or some paper towel, whatever. It will make a huge difference in travel. You won't get all of that glare from that low sun angle. News you can use. 
 
BOLDUAN: I was going to say the news I know I could use, but very clearly I need more of it. More -- I know it's like --
 
MYERS: Clean those windshields. 
 
BOLDUAN: Chad Myers, you are like the I need more cowbell for all things weather at all times with me. 
 
MYERS: I'm ready. 
 
BOLDUAN: More cowbell. Chad Myers. Thanks, Chad. Really, really appreciate it. 
 
Watching the weather. But we're also watching some serious news overseas. We have this new this morning, at least 32 people have survived a fiery crash of a passenger plane in Central Asia. At least two of the survivors are children, but dozens of other people who were also on board are feared dead. Do you want to warn you the video we're going to be showing you next you may find disturbing. 
 <br>[11:10:05] 
 
In it, you can see first responders and also civilians rushing to help at the crash site, see bloodied passengers emerging from the wreckage. And the front portion of the plane is missing. CNN's Nada Bashir is in London with the latest. 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kate, the Azerbaijan Airlines flight was traveling from the Azerbaijani capital, Baku to Grozny in the Russian region of Chechnya, but it was forced to make an emergency landing around 2 miles from the Kazakh city of Aktau. Now video circulating from eyewitnesses and those nearby the crash site shows that the plane was circling the airfield somewhat erratically before the crash, then bursting into flames as it hit the ground. 
 
Now emergency response teams were quickly at the scene and remarkably, there were a number of survivors including at least two children, according to authorities, with video showing some of those injured emerging from the wreckage. But this is a moment of huge tragedy for those that did not survive. According to authorities, there were 67 people on board the flight, including five crew members. Preliminary reports, according to Russian aviation authorities, suggest that the pilot was forced to attempt an emergency landing following a bird strike. However, investigations are still ongoing. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Nada, thank you very much for that. Coming up for us, still, shocking new information is coming out after a woman was lit on fire and killed on a New York City subway car. You're in the CNN Newsroom. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PILI RESTREPO, COMMANDER FOR THE AREA SUPPORT GROUP, KUWAIT: Hi, I'm
 
 Colonel Pili Restrepo, the commander for the Area Support Group Kuwait. 
 
ANDREW BROTT, ASG, SENIOR ENLISTED ADVISOR: And I am command center arm Major Andrew Brott, ASG senior enlisted advisor. 
 
RESTREPO: From our family here in Kuwait, to all our come. 
 
BROTT: And to you and yours, we want to wish you happy holidays. Patton Zone, always forward. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:16:07] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GAVIN JAMES, SERGEANT, CAMPOSAKA JAPAN: Hey, I'm Sergeant Gavin James. I'm out here at Camposaka, Japan. I just want to give a quick shout out to my family back in Valparaiso, Indiana. My mom, my grandparents, my sister, Dominic, I love you guys. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BOLDUAN: So we are getting some disturbing new details about the case of a man now accused of murder for setting a woman on fire on a New York City subway. According to police testimony, the suspect, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, literally fanned the flames by waving a shirt shortly after setting the woman on fire. The testimony going on to say that man's actions caused the flames to engulf her in a matter of seconds. 
 
Now, he was arraigned Tuesday, you see him there on charges of first and second-degree murder and arson, according to authorities. Let me bring in right now CNN legal analyst and criminal defense attorney Joey Jackson. Before we get to what is really new gruesome details, first and foremost, Merry Christmas, Joey. Thank you for being here. 
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Of course, Kate, thank you. And Merry Christmas to you and to all. 
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you. What is your reaction to the new details coming out in this police testimony and what it is going to mean for what is going to be a case building against this man? 
 
JACKSON: Yes, Kate, it's quite disturbing, obviously. I mean, anyone who rides the New York City subways wants to be safe, wants to be secure, and doesn't want to be subjected to this. Whether there's a full subway of car people or whether you're alone. And certainly, as it relates to seeing a woman who's there intentionally lighting a fire. He, of course, was found allegedly with a lighter in his pocket when he was apprehended. But lighting that now, fanning the flames and then going and sitting and watching sort of the show is troubling. And so that is depraved, to say the least. 
 
What it'll mean from a legal perspective is you look at the first and second-degree murder charges as we look at the suspect there and who he was, that he was deported, came back, and apparently was in a homeless shelter. But if you look at the first, second, and second- degree murder charges in the arson, what that means is this. We know and we've talked a lot about lately, interestingly enough, first- degree murder in New York as it related to the other case, right, the one who assassinated allegedly the healthcare worker. Why was that first degree that dealt with the issue of torture here, you get first degree for two reasons. 
 
One, the depravity of the conduct. If you act in an unusually cruel way, which is depraved, which is tantamount torture, you get first degree. Furthermore, Kate, if you act in a way in furtherance of arson, you get first-degree murder. What is that? First-degree murder is life in jail without parole. It's an A felony, a one felony in New York State, and that's what the consequence is. 
 
Second-degree murder, which you'll also be charged with, is simply establishing that you intended the conduct and intended death. And that's also eligible for life, but you can get parole. Then of course, the arson is the lighting of fire. So certainly depraved, certainly inhumane. He'll be held accountable and he'll be back in court to answer to the charges, I think as early as Friday. 
 
BOLDUAN: One of the things that's also been coming out, according to some reports, is that the suspect claimed that he didn't know what happened, saying though, that he consumes alcohol. That's kind of the wording that I've seen, especially in the Associated Press. I'm not sure what to make of that. I mean, what does that mean? What does that mean in the legal sense and what could be coming? 
 
JACKSON: So two things, Kate. It's not uncommon for a defendant accused of a crime to make a statement. It doesn't mean because you make a statement that the statement is accurate, that you're necessarily being truthful. And authorities will parse that out. His attorneys will make certain challenges to prevent that statement, seeing the light of day in front of a jury. But even if you were intoxicated or something else, that's not a defense. You voluntarily intoxicated yourself so you don't get to commit a crime allegedly saying that, oh, I was drunk. I didn't know what I was doing. 
 <br>[11:20:04] 
 
The second issue is that you have to match the statement up against the factual reality here. Here we have footage which seems to indicate a very intentional, brazen, purposeful, and depraved act. And so it'll be up to a jury to assess the statement, if it's admitted, against the reality of their eyes and what they see in terms of its credibility. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. And he didn't enter a plea during his arraignment. He's expected to be back in court on Friday. So what are -- where does this go now? 
 
JACKSON: So what happens, Kate, is in New York State. You originally, when you're arrested, get arrested on a criminal complaint. What that means in English is that prosecutors meet with authorities, they evaluate the evidence, they have a factual rendition of what you're accused of as we look at him there, and they articulate what the charges are. Thereafter, right, you have less than a week. Prosecutors have to indict you. What does this language all mean? It means that a grand jury, which is composed of 23 people, they sit and they hear evidence with respect to what you are accused of doing. 
 
A simple majority that is 12, have to decide whether or not you're guilty or you're innocent, but whether there's reason to believe, right, that there was a crime committed in terms of the crimes that the prosecutors are saying you committed, first-degree murder, the second-degree murder, the arson, and that you are the one that committed it. If that's the case, a true bill issued. That means you're officially indicted by a grand jury. 
 
Again, not proof of guilt beyond reasonable doubt, just the things that I mentioned. You're then, of course, officially indicted, arraigned again. You will enter a plea of not guilty. He will be detained. Then at that point, evidence will be exchanged with his lawyers. His lawyers will evaluate that evidence, and the case will go to trial in the event that there's no plea or anything else. So that's what we could expect when he's back in court on Friday. 
 
BOLDUAN: Joey Jackson. Thank you, Joey. Thanks for jumping on. 
 
JACKSON: Always. Thanks, Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you. So the IRS announced plans to issue automatic special payments to 1 million taxpayers. How to know if you qualify and how much you could get here in the CNN Newsroom. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SPC. NICHOLAS HOLDEN: Hey, everybody. Just wanted to wish you a Merry Christmas from here overseas. Wish list is small this year, but just want you guys to have a happy, safe, and warm holiday season. Maybe with a slight layer of snow on the ground. Really, for me, the ultimate present will be celebrating with you guys in person next year. You'll be in my thoughts every day. We just want you to have a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:26:47] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ENEL VINCENT JR., U.S. AIR FORCE STAFF SERGEANT: I'm U.S. Air Force Staff Sergeant Enel Vincent Jr. I'm stationed with the 1st SOM Access in Okinawa, Japan. I'd like to give a shout-out to my brother and sister, Zach and Erica, and I'd like to give them a special happy holidays over in Snellville, Georgia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BOLDUAN: So if you did not receive a stimulus check during the pandemic, you may soon be getting one from the IRS. The agency has announced that it's going to begin issuing what it calls special payments to as many as 1 million taxpayers. Those checks could be worth as much as $1,400. Let's get more on this. People love free money. 
 
Joining me now is Washington Post reporter Shannon Najmabadi. It's good to see you, Shannon. Thank you for jumping on what is going on here? Why is the IRS taking this action now? 
 
SHANNON NAJMABADI, REPORTER, THE WASHINGTON POST: So these payments date back to the pandemic when, if you remember, the U.S. Government authorized three different rounds of stimulus checks formerly known as economic impact payments. And this was up to 1,200 per income tax filer in early 2020, 600 in late 2020, and up to 1,400 in 2021. Now, if you didn't receive some or all of that money, you were eligible to claim a recovery rebate credit on your 2020 or 2021 tax return. And what's happening now is that the IRS said last week that they went over their own data and in going over their data found about a million tax filers who were eligible for this credit in 2021 but did not claim it. So rather than having these filers submit an amended tax return to apply for the credit, they are proactively sending out money to these people that are eligible. 
 
And like you said, it would be up to 1,400 per individual in most cases, depending on what they're eligible for. And the money should arrive by, in most cases, late January 2025. 
 
BOLDUAN: There is one part of the statement from the IRS commissioner that just. I'm getting stuck on with this. Let me read it for everybody. It says, "Looking at our internal data, we realize million taxpayers overlooked claiming this complex credit when they were actually eligible." The part that I'm stuck on, Shannon, is the like, we just realized a million people didn't claim this credit. The way it's kind of worded, I mean, could this have just continued to have gone completely overlooked? 
 
NAJMABADI: I'm sorry I missed part of your question, but just as a reminder, there is -- there are people that still haven't filed their 2020 tax return. In terms of the timing of when they reviewed the data, I'm not positive. But you still have until April 15, 2025, to apply for this credit. And the people that I think were eligible and didn't either left this line blank or they wrote zero. And these are the people that would now be potentially eligible for this funding. 
 
BOLDUAN: How do you know if you are? Who is eligible and how. And how are people going to go about? I mean, it says automatic, but how do people actually go about receiving this? 
 
NAJMABADI: So it's going to, you're going to get if you are eligible. And we should just say that most people probably are not because the IRS is saying that most people already received this payment. But you can go on to the IRS and check on your account and see either if you did receive this payment or how much you would be eligible for. Just so you know and can check for yourself. This was about people that generally made 80,000 in adjusted.