Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Spain Tries to Make Sense of A Disaster; Rare Dime with an Error Sold for $506,250 at Auction. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired November 04, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello everyone. Welcome back to CNN 10. I`m Coy Wire. Hope you had an awesome weekend and you enjoyed falling back, feeling 
 
 refreshed after turning back those clocks, getting an extra hour of sleep. We had daylight saving time in the wee hours of yesterday morning. And for 
 
 the two states that don`t do daylight saving, Arizona and Hawaii, sorry to bring it up. Hope you`re still feeling fresh and ready to start this week 
 
 off strong.
 
All right. Tomorrow is election day in the U.S. So, the next two episodes will be election-themed special editions examining America heading to the 
 
 polls. 
 
Today, though, let`s start by checking in on the country of Spain, which is recovering from what their Prime Minister says is the worst natural 
 
 disaster to affect the country in recent history.
 
More than 200 people have been killed, hundreds more still missing. This after storms concentrated over the two river basins and produced walls of 
 
 water that overflowed riverbanks, catching people off guard late Tuesday evening and early on Wednesday. CNN`s Atika Shubert has more on the 
 
 situation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ATIKA SHUBERT, SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In a dystopian scene of Spain`s deadliest floods in decades, dozens of cars and 
 
 debris are piled on top of what was a railroad in Eastern Spain.
 
With a year`s worth of rainfall plummeting down in just hours on Tuesday, hundreds of people have been killed, according to authorities. And the 
 
 death toll is only expected to rise. The extreme weather has caused a surge of water to break bridges, damaging homes and cars along the way, with the 
 
 floods turning gray roads into a muddy brown. These satellite images taken less than two weeks apart show the sheer level of destruction the floods 
 
 have left behind.
 
But now, armed with broomsticks and shovels, locals have been coming in droves to clean up the streets. Some tell us how they turned up just to 
 
 help.
 
TANIA, LOCAL VOLUNTEER: We wanted to help because we know there`s a lot of people suffering. So we told to our friends and we decided to buy food, 
 
 bring clothes and everything and water.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): There have been widespread concerns about official warning systems, many residents saying they were alerted too late. 
 
VALENTIN MANZANEQUE FERNANDEZ, LOCAL VOLUNTEER (through translator): The storm hit in the morning but the water didn`t get toward until 8:00 in the 
 
 evening, yet nobody warned us, nothing. Nobody cared. At 70 years old, I had to go with these old clothes to change but I haven`t even been able to 
 
 take a shower.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): This children`s school was also affected by the tragedy, its interior severely damaged.
 
SHUBERT: You can see just how high the waters were, more than chest high, higher than a child. And this is a school, all of this equipment we are 
 
 told is brand new and it`s been completely destroyed by the mud and the flooding from the river.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has called this Spain`s worst natural disaster in a century. And E.U. officials warned of 
 
 the flood`s wider implication.
 
FLORIKA FINK-HOOIJER, EUROPEAN COMMISSION ENVIRONMENT ENVOY: A tragedy like this one is not just a Spanish one, it really affects all of us in Europe.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): In the wake of the destruction, the Spanish government says it has deployed more than a thousand soldiers to help the 
 
 cleanup and rescue efforts. But as more rainfall is expected in the coming days meteorologists say this human made crisis is only going to get worse.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Next, we get a bit of food for thought from one of the greatest athletes the world has ever seen, superstar gymnast Simone Biles and her 
 
 Olympic teammate, Jordan Chiles. I caught up with them recently to feature them in our new CNN series, "Visionaries." 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE (voice-over): By now, you likely know the story. As young girls, Simone and her sister, Adria, spent time in foster care before being 
 
 adopted by their grandparents, Nellie and Ron Biles, whom they now call mom and dad. Simone began gymnastics at six years old, bursting onto the world 
 
 scene in 2013 before making her Olympic debut three years later in Rio at the age of 19. 
 
(On camera): All right, speaking of youngsters, I had to spin through the old CNN archives.
 
SIMONE BILES, 7-TIME OLYMPIC GOLD MEDALIST: Yeah, OK.
 
WIRE: 2017.
 
JORDAN CHILES, 2024 OLYMPIC GOLD MEDALIST: Oh, no.
 
WIRE: And Simone, you shared what you would have told your younger self.
 
BILES: Yeah.
 
WIRE: You said, if I could say anything to my younger self, it`s stop being so stubborn.
 
BILES: Because I was a very stubborn kid, very crazy too, so.
 
WIRE: So I think that kind of halted a bit of stuff, but I think it turned out for the best with everything that`s happened since then, seven years 
 
 later here. 
 
BILES: Yes. 
 
WIRE: What would you tell yourself now?
 
BILES: Still, I feel like there are times where we give a lot of pushback because we`re so afraid of what`s going to happen. So to just not be 
 
 anxious and to relax a little bit, obviously, there`s more that goes on behind that. But we are so grateful to be in a position where we have 
 
 amazing resources to help us. So it`s just like for me now, it`s just being vulnerable and asking for help.
 
WIRE (voice-over): Simone`s close friend and teammate, Jordan Chiles, is a two-time Olympian in Tokyo and Paris. Now, at the age of 23, she`s found 
 
 herself center stage like never before, including beside Simone on the Gold Over America Tour post-Paris. 
 
(On camera): Jordan, what would you tell your younger self?
 
CHILES: My younger self, I definitely could say, just to understand the word no. I did have a lot of times where I would just say yes to everything 
 
 and being able just to follow the path that you wanted to go in and not really what everybody is creating for you and always just let people in. I 
 
 think that`s where the help comes into play because I -- when I was younger, I did not want help from anybody.
 
But just, you know, to really look back and be like, OK, your journey and your path is something that you should write for yourself and kind of just 
 
 let it ride in the way that you want it to ride. And, you know, I look at my life as puzzle. Just put the puzzle pieces in the right spot and just 
 
 let it all create itself.
 
So I`m happy that now where I am now, I`m able to actually say that because when I was younger, I think that was something I -- you know, I was silent 
 
 so I couldn`t really speak how I wanted to speak.
 
WIRE: That`s powerful stuff.
 
CHILES: That`s where -- yeah, the vulnerability comes into play for sure.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Tend-second trivia. 
 
What U.S. president is featured on the dime? 
 
Franklin D. Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, or Grover Cleveland? 
 
If you said FDR, you are correct. The 32nd president of the United States has been on the front of the dime since 1946.
 
Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. When is a dime not worth 10 cents? Apparently, when it`s worth half a million bucks because it`s missing a 
 
 single letter.
 
Our Jeremy Roth explains.
 
JEREMY ROTH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Take a look at an ultra-rare dime that just sold for half a million dollars. Let me explain. Normally, 
 
 the ubiquitous 10-cent piece is, well, a dime a dozen, so to speak, nothing special.
 
But according to auction house Great Collections, this 1975 dime is a very rare exception indeed. Why? Because of this. The absence of a tiny letter S 
 
 that adorns all dimes struck at the U.S. Proof Mint in San Francisco. See? There it is. Right there. 
 
Great Collections says the S-less dime is infinitely rarer with this error. It`s certainly more interesting, or should I say inter-ret-ting? In fact, 
 
 it`s one of only two examples known to exist and was purchased by an Ohio family in 1978 and held for almost 50 years before being consigned and 
 
 garnering more than 200 bids, ultimately selling for a record-setting $506,000 and change. See what I did there?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: All right, superstars, time for the best part of the show, you. 
 
Shout-out time now, and this one goes to Lowndes Academy, Lowndesboro, Alabama. We hope you and everyone watching have an awesome day. Let`s rise 
 
 up and do it again tomorrow. 
 
I`m Coy Wire. And we are CNN 10. 
 
END