Headline: Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees
Sub-headline: Americans Freed In Prisoner Swap Land In US; Historic Prisoner Swap Involves 24 Detainees, Seven Countries; Alexei Navalny's Daughter On The Historic Prisoner Swap; Tonight: Biden, Harris To Greet Freed Americans At Joint Base Andrews; How The Divine Nine Is Helping To Shape The 2024 Election. Aired 8-9p ET

Aired August 01, 2024 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: It is hard to imagine it, but we can all see the pain that you're in, you're family is in. I know your 95-year-old mother. Our thoughts are all with you. I know, in a day that it's full of joy for other families.
 
FOGEL: I'm happy for the others.
 
BURNETT: It's important to see the pain that you are going through with your family. Thank you for sharing it.
 
FOGEL: Thank you. Thank you for having me.
 
BURNETT: Thanks so much to Anne and of course to all of you. AC360 starts now.
 <br>[20:00:45]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Good evening from Washington. About three hours from now, a US government jet, will touch down at Joint Base Andrews capping the largest prisoner exchange with Russia since the Cold War and one of the most intricate of its kind ever.
 
Sixteen Russian detainees released, including three Americans. "Wall Street Journal" reporter Evan Gershkovich, former Marine Paul Whelan, Russian American journalist Alsu Kurmasheva, also, dissident and US permanent resident, Vladimir Kara-Murza. They were flown from Russia to Ankara, Turkey, where the exchange took place.
 
Like the deal itself, that exchange involved several different planes from the US, Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Norway, and Russia. Here is Gershkovich in a photo the White House put out with Kurmasheva and Whelan speaking with President Biden. And here they are on the plane that is now just a short way out from Andrews.
 
Speaking about what went into freeing them, the normally buttoned down National Security Adviser, Jake Sullivan, well, he got choked up.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: I spent a lot of time with the families, of Evan and Paul and Alsu and most of the time, as you can imagine, those are tough conversations, but not today. Today, excuse me. Today was a very good day and we are going to build on it, drawing inspiration and continued courage from it for all of those who were held hostage or wrongfully detained around the world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Sullivan was deeply involved in those negotiations. The dark flip side of the deal, the price of the deal, however, was the release of a collection of Russian criminals and alleged criminals, including the man in the cap there, Vadim Krasikov, former FSB Colonel and hitman, convicted of an execution style murder. Here, greeted by Vladimir Putin back in Moscow with a warm embrace.
 
Former President Trumps saw little good in the deal quoting now from his post on social media, "I got back many hostages and gave the opposing country nothing and never any cash."
 
First, Jake Sullivan today, said the US included no money in the deal and did not loosen any economic sanctions. Additionally, CNN factchecker, Daniel Dale has uncovered four exchanges in which the former president himself approved the release of prisoners from US detention in exchange for foreign adversaries releasing Americans. Those adversaries, they include Iran, the Taliban, and the Houthi rebels in Yemen.
 
As for Evan Gershkovich, he personally extended Putin one final gesture before his release. According to "The Wall Street Journal," at the end of the application for clemency, he had to submit. He added a handwritten request for Putin for an interview. Always a working journalist. Joining us now with more on what went into this remarkable deal, we're joined by CNN's Alex Marquardt.
 
Alex, what a complicated web of diplomacy that brought this over the finish line, all the countries involved. How exactly did this deal come together?
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: So many parties involved, so many countries involved, you mentioned Jake Sullivan, of course, he, the White House, the president intimately involved with this process.
 
Roger Carstens, the hostage negotiator at the state department, would have laid out the basic framework, the landscape of the deal. But I'm told that the middlemen, essentially, the people doing the shuttle negotiating and discussions, that was the CIA Director Bill Burns.
 
And if we look back on this timeline, about 18 months after Brittney Griner was exchanged for the Merchant of Death, Viktor Bout, the US got back to work trying to get Paul Whelan out. And I am old that right after that the CIA offered Russia a two for one deal, two Russian spies in Slovenia, for Paul Whelan. They rejected that.
 
A couple of months later, Evan Gershkovich was detained. The CIA then went back to the Russians in Moscow and offered a four for two deal, four Russian spies in different European countries, for Paul Whelan and Evan Gershkovich, they rejected that as well. Making clear that they were not going to accept a deal without that assassin, Vadim Krasikov in Germany. And that was a really complicating factor because Germany did not want to release him.
 
So, there were months and months of discussions about who might be involved in this deal. Alexey Navalny, the most prominent Russian opposition figure. He was in discussions, and then of course, he very sadly died in a Russian prison in February.
 
Eventually, the US got around to pressuring Germany enough to release Krasikov so that by the time June came along, so, just a month-and-a- half ago, the CIA went to Russia with this final proposal. I'm told that a couple of weeks later, in a phone call with Bill Burns in early July, they accepted it in principle. There were a couple of details that still needed to be worked out and then finally, Jim, in a meeting in mid-July, again between the CIA and Russian intelligence on Turkish soil they accepted the deal, and now we are seeing it play out in real time.
 
I'm told Burns will be on the tarmac tonight with the president.
 <br>[20:05:40]
 
SCIUTTO: Just one of the many facets of this deal, is this was a big give for Germany. Krasikov is someone who committed murder in broad daylight on the German streets and there's another assassination on European soil here. So that was a big ask for Germany and Germany, they abided by the president's request there.
 
So, tell us about President Biden's role in this. Was he central?
 
MARQUARDT: He was absolutely pivotal, certainly in the final moments. He had to essentially twist the arm of the German Chancellor, Scholz in order to release Krasikov. The Russians had made clear throughout the process that without Krasikov, there was absolutely nothing. The Germans were ready to take back Navalny in order to release Krasikov. But then, when he was killed that kind of put all kinds of questions in the air.
 
So, we are told that up until the last minute, Biden was working the phones. He was trying to get the Germans across the finish line and including on that final day, that when he -- two weeks ago when he announced that he was dropping out of the race. He actually made a separate call so the Slovenian prime minister to make sure that they were onboard because they had two Russian spies in their custody. So, he really was working to get this deal across the finish line.
 
SCIUTTO: At the very same day, we should note the Russians say Navalny wasn't killed in prison, they say he died in prison, but certainly they had a minimum hold responsibility for that. Alex Marquardt, thanks so much. Please do stand by.
 
Before bringing the panel, just a quick roadmap on how the rest of the night will unfold for these released prisoners. President Biden, Vice President Harris, and family members, they're going to head to Andrews to greet Evan Gershkovich, Paul Whelan, and Alsu Kurmasheva, three and their families will then board a flight to San Antonio, that for the Brooke Army Medical Center to undergo a standard medical evaluation, get whatever care they might need.
 
So joining Alex as well, with me, Evelyn Farkas, former deputy assistant secretary of defense for Russia, Ukraine, and Eurasia. "The Washington Post", Jason Rezaian, who himself was held in captivity for 544 days by Iran. We are also joined by former CIA chief of Russian operations, Steve Hall, he knows a thing or two about how Russia operates here.
 
Jason, I do want to begin with you because you are the one sitting at this table here who went through detention of uncertain length. We should note that, that when you and others go in, you don't know when you are going to come out or if you're going to come out. Can you just describe what they are feeling right now in terms of relief, I imagine a mix of emotions, joy, but also a lot of pain that they carry with them.
 
JASON REZAIAN, AUTHOR: Jim, of course, there's a lot of joy, a lot of relief for everybody involved --that prolonged period of time. In my case, a year-and-a-half; in Evan's case, almost a year-and-a-half; Paul Whelan, almost six years.
 
The not knowing is the hardest part. Will this ever end? How will this end? I think that initial period on the airplane with fellow Americans, with government officials on your way to freedom is really the first moment where you can let your shoulders loosen up a little bit and realize, okay, this part of my ordeal is finally over.
 
And for the families I've been in touch with, a couple of them today, and throughout the last few years, in the case of Paul Whelan, this has to be a moment of immense joy and relief but also an understanding, there is a really long road ahead.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
REZAIAN: As you know, it has been about eight years since I got out, the road continues.
 
SCIUTTO: You carry the pain. There's no question. I heard the joy in the family's voices this morning.
 
Steve Hall, I do want to ask you a question here because Jason mentioned the uncertainty, not knowing when they would be free. That is part of the torture of this. But there was also fear that they might die in prison. I know that for instance, speaking to Kara- Murza's wife, Evgenia, by the way, he was twice poisoned by Russia, nearly to the point of death.
 
They weren't certain and couldn't be certain that they would necessarily survive prison. Could they be?
 
STEVE HALL, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: No, as a matter of fact, if you're going to be in a Russian prison, there is a great -- a high chance that it is not going to end well for you. Either, deteriorating health or actual just murdered, just being killed.
 
And we have to remember the current Russian prison system is not that different from Stalin's Gulag, which played a role in incarceration. But really, it's punishment and it's taking it out on these prisoners. And of course, the Russians, where there's no rule of law. There's no abiding by international standards with regard to how prisoners are treated.
 <br>[20:10:15]
 
So yes, it's a very, very difficult thing. And I think torture really is the right word more so than imprisonment in my view.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, and you heard that for instance, when Paul Whelan speaking to our Jennifer Hansler through the many months and years that he was in detention. The conditions in these prisons are deliberately nasty. The food quality is deliberately nasty. This is all part of the way to pressure and to drain folks held in detention.
 
I want to ask you, Alex, just for more details about the Russians who were released here, because this speaks to what is the sad side. One might call it a sad necessity to exchanges like this, that is the bad people are on the other side of the exchange.
 
MARQUARDT: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: So, tell us about the Russians going free tonight?
 
MARQUARDT: So Krasikov was the big fish. He was the guy who Putin really wanted. The former FSB colonel. There are eight Russians who are going home from a variety of different countries. Three of them are coming from the United States. There are then four more of what we call illegals. These are essentially spies living undercover. They were in Norway, Slovenia, and Poland.
 
One of them was the couple in Slovenia and then you have these three in the United States for a variety of crimes, laundering, hacking, cybercrimes. I want to highlight one of those men, 40-year-old a Roman Seleznev, he is a convicted hacker and credit card fraudster. He was serving a 27-year sentence in the United States. The Russians had previously asked for Seleznev and the US had agreed to that, but the deal fell apart when the Germans declined to give up Krasikov.
 
So, he was sentenced in November to 14 years in prison. He played a role a $50 million cyber-fraud ring. And then of course, Krasikov, the big name, we saw him getting hugged by Putin as he got off the plane. He was sentenced to life in prison in 2019 in Germany. He carried out what's being called an execution-style killing in a Berlin park.
 
He killed a former Chechen fighter and it was such a galling crime that's really why there is so much resistance by the Germans to give him up.
 
SCIUTTO: Understandably so, this is about the rule of law for these countries here.
 
Evelyn, when you look at this, Russia has practiced what I suppose you could call hostage diplomacy for a number of years now. You might call it, brinksmanship; hostage diplomacy might be too generous in that they deliberately take Americans were trumped up or non-existent crimes to become trade capital, to get really bad guys out of detention abroad.
 
The risk here, of course, and the criticism is when you do an exchange like this, are you laying the groundwork for the next hostage to be taken?
 
EVELYN FARKAS, FORMER DEPARTMENT ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA/UKRAINE/EURASIA: I don't really think so, Jim. I mean, you never know for sure, but at the end of the day, you have to make a calculation. These 16 innocent lives were worth giving up these bloody, bloody murderers and spies, or bloody murderer and spies and hackers, real criminals, and of course, the optics are terrible. Morally, it does feel 'yucky' for lack of a better word.
 
But at the end of the day, if you think about what you get in exchange, I think the president had no choice really, in a way, it was brilliant that they came up with this really big deal.
 
I do remember when I was in Munich in February, there was talk about a big deal. Bill Browder, who is someone that I've worked with, my organization and the McCain Institute has worked with, to try to get Vladimir Kara-Murza freed because you may know he was pall bearer in Senator McCain's Funeral, and was someone that John McCain, a war hero himself called a hero.
 
And so, we were listening closely to people like Roger Carstens, the ambassador who is in charge of these deals, these hostage deals. So, there was some talk about this.
 
At the end of the day though, Vladimir Putin is not going to change who he is because there's a deal or there's not a deal. He still wants to put pressure on us. He still will take unwitting Americans who go to his country. So, I do agree with the administration people who are saying, don't go. The people who are still being held I think a masseuse or a hairdresser, a school teacher, who probably should have known better because you don't bring cannabis to Russia.
 
But regular Americans need to know, for you journalists, I don't know what the calculation is because you do want to cover those countries.
 
SCIUTTO: And not just for Russia, but for China and Iran, who, Jason, you know better than anyone that they practice the same thing. Before we go, two questions, one, to you Steve Hall.
 
It was notable to me that Vladimir Putin was on the tarmac in Russia to welcome his detainees home, here. Does he see this as a victory?
 <br>[20:15:05]
 
HALL: Well, I think what he really wanted is he wanted the German assassin back because it is one of his own. He is an intelligence officer and he wanted to send a message to future assassination teams. That hey, if you get caught when you're doing something that we send you to do, essentially to kill somebody overseas, if you caught, don't worry about it. We will eventually get you out. So in that sense, he got in that sense what he wanted but it's a difficult balancing act. I can tell you this though, I was asking myself, why now? And I think that Putin assessed that there was no way that he could do this if a Trump administration came in because there is no connection, like the Biden connection to the Germans and that I think came into play when he just made a decision this way.
 
SCIUTTO: You should note that the children involved in this, who we saw just coming down the steps right there, they were the children of that spy couple that was released from Slovenia. That's why the two children, they were not detainees themselves.
 
Before we go, Jason, I'm just curious. What's the first thing you do on your first night of freedom? Everybody is different. did you have a cheeseburger? Did you want to watch something on television?
 
REZAIAN: I made a couple of phone calls to some buddies and I had some sushi.
 
SCIUTTO: Fair enough.
 
FARJAS: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: I bet you -- imagine there were things they were picturing in the prison cell that they are ordering up right now. Alex Marquardt, Evelyn Farkas, Jason Rezaian, Steve Hall, of course, thanks so much.
 
Coming up next, "The Wall Street Journal" publisher, who worked so hard for this day and was with Evan Gershkovich's family for some of it.
 
Also tonight, the daughter of the late Alexey Navalny, she speaks about her dad, who as we mentioned just now, could have been a part of today's prisoner exchange had he not died suddenly and mysteriously in one of Putin's harshest penal colonies. That's coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:20:44]
 
SCIUTTO: With "Wall Street Journal" reporter, Evan Gershkovich on his way to Joint Base Andrews, and a warm welcome home from the president and vice president and loved ones. This ends a harrowing 491 days for his family, friends, and colleagues.
 
Joining us now, one of those colleagues, "The Wall Street Journal" publisher and Dow Jones CEO, Almar Latour. Good to have you on tonight on what I'm sure is a much happier evening for you and your team.
 
ALMAR LATOUR, DOW JONES CEO: Great to be here. It is indeed a joyous day. Yes and the first one in a fairly long time.
 
SCIUTTO: I am certain. I understand you were with the Gershkovich family earlier today. I wonder, what was their mood like and how are they reacting to this welcome news? LATOUR: Well, they are of course, delighted that what you're showing there is our breakfast this morning. We were filled with anticipation. The family knew what was about to happen but it was still not real, there was a lot of humor at that moment to just get through that moment, there was also just a lot of emotion underlying the whole breakfast discussion.
 
They were then dropped off at the White House. We hugged and they went off to a new, much happier chapter. It was so thrilling to conclude this ride with them.
 
SCIUTTO: I'm sure there was some nervousness too, right. Until they saw it with their own eyes. Do you plan to be with them when Evan's plane lands at Joint Base Andrews later tonight?
 
LATOUR: Yes. We are headed over there with a handful of us, of course, our reporters will be there doing their job, but also some of the team that worked nonstop on Evan's case will be there. I will go there as well. We'll then in the morning fly off to San Antonio and I hope to spend some more time with the family and Evan when they are ready for it because they have a lot to process and of course, they are now in charge and Evan is now in charge of his own time.
 
SCIUTTO: I have to say, when I see Evan's face and smile in the pictures and the video on that bus in Russia means he shows such strength, right? Nonplussed, it seems by all that he went through. We do have a video of "The Wall Street Journal's" New York Newsroom reacting to the announcement.
 
A standing 'O' for the news. You were in the DC newsroom. Tell us, what it was like among the colleagues there had been rooting for him, nervous about him through all these months?
 
LATOUR: Well, this is not too long ago, about six months ago. We were standing in that very spot that you are showing right now and we were talking about the one-year anniversary of his detention.
 
At that moment, there was a silence. There were different kinds of tears. There's so much pent up emotion and that was clearly on display in the newsroom that you are showing right now, but also in Washington, folks gathered and it was just an emotional and very meaningful moment for everyone who has contributed so much.
 
That newsroom has just given everything, just carrying Evan's message every day, reporting on it but also promoting and putting a spotlight on his cause.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, I can't imagine a better feeling than seeing a colleague free. I wonder in the midst of what was a very difficult long-term negotiation. Do you credit the Biden administration for getting the deal across the finish line?
 
LATOUR: Well, the US administration has brought this to a conclusion and they deserve a major credit for getting this over the line, obviously, without them this would not have happened.
 
It also happened in conjunction with a lot of other nations contributing their part, true allies.
 
We had the pleasure of also putting forth Evan's case to some of the participants internationally and now the importance that -- the important role that they played in this whole saga.
 
And so, we are deeply grateful to both the administration and numerous foreign governments, in particular, the German government.
 <br>[20:25:15]
 
SCIUTTO: I have to imagine, as a newsman to you, you were grateful for Evan Gershkovich sneaking a request for a Putin interview into that final request for clemency he had to sign as he left. Always a working journalist.
 
LATOUR: Yes, once a reporter always reporter, I would say it's very hard to put that instinct away and it was lovely to see for Evan to double down on that even when confronted with an absurd request for a pardon.
 
SCIUTTO: Almar Latour, our congratulations to you and the whole family there at Dow Jones. Thanks so much for joining us.
 
LATOUR: Thank you for your support.
 
SCIUTTO: We are going to have more on this prisoner swap from the daughter of the late, Alexey Navalny. Of course, a key opposition leader inside Russia until his death in an Arctic prison earlier this year.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:30:11]
 
SCIUTTO: This is a picture of Vice President Harris. She posted a short time ago on social media. She is on the phone with Yulia Navalnaya, the wife of the late Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, who you'll remember died in a Russian prison earlier this year. The White House, as we mentioned, said that until his death, it had been working on a version of the prisoner swap that would have included Navalny. Harris also spoke about that conversation before leaving Houston.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Earlier today, I spoke with Alexei's widow, Yulia, to discuss the significance of their release. And as I told her, this being an additional time for previous conversations with her, the United States stands with all of those who are fighting for freedom in Russia.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Alexei Navalny's widow, Yulia, in a statement praised the exchange, which included political prisoners who had worked alongside her husband. I'm joined now by Dasha Navalnaya. She's the daughter of Alexei Navalny and Yulia Navalnaya. Thanks so much, Dasha, for joining us tonight.
 
DASHA NAVALNAYA, DAUGHTER OF LATE RUSSIAN OPPOSITION LEADER ALEXEI NAVALNY: Thank you for having me.
 
SCIUTTO: Of course, your family suffered through the pain, the fear of detention of a loved one, and I wonder what your reaction is to hearing this news tonight.
 
NAVALNAYA: Of course, personally, it's a bit bittersweet knowing that my dad -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
NAVALNAYA: -- could have been in this exchange. However, I'm incredibly -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
NAVALNAYA: -- incredibly happy for all the -- those who have been released today and the families of those who were detained all this time because I personally can't imagine how ecstatic they are to see their loved ones.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. Well, your family has been so gracious in welcoming this and I know supporting those other families as they've gone through these painful detentions there. And yes, I can only imagine there must be part of you that's just feeling, if only, if only my father was still alive.
 
NAVALNAYA: Yes. But I think that most importantly, this really -- this exchange really shows the priority of the Russian government at this time. And it shows that Putin doesn't need smart, selfless, honest people who truly love their country, but instead he needs spies and murderers and real criminals by his side, and it just shows that we need to continue working and it's a long road ahead.
 
And although today is a very happy day and definitely a cause of celebration, we have to remember that there are still hundreds of political prisoners in Russia, and we need to fight hard for them, like Vice President Harris said just now.
 
SCIUTTO: It's such an important point. As you were speaking there, we showed the Russian president embracing this FSB assassin, right, who was released, a murderer, convicted murderer, who was released as part of the deal as he expels from Russia Vladimir Kara-Murza, someone who has stood up so courageously to the Russian regime and corruption.
 
Do you believe that's why he's celebrating this deal tonight, that he gets back -- he gets back the -- well, the kind of thug he likes by his side, but then is able to push out someone who challenges him.
 
NAVALNAYA: I don't really know what's going through his mind. At this point, it's really sad and kind of disheartening the fact that the president of the country where I'm from, the corrupt crook who's sitting at the top of the country where I'm from, which I love, he just wants to have spies and corrupt criminals by his side while he's bombing another country and waging wars and interfering in elections.
 
And I, again, would like to thank everybody who's celebrating this exchange today with us, as my family and I are, because there is so much work left to be done and we'll continue fighting until Russia is a free and democratic country without any assassins by our side.
 
SCIUTTO: Well, it's an important point you make because your mother has to some degree, taken up the torch has she not from your father following his death. And with you very much at her side, I always feel that I see you together, right, still trying to keep this cause alive. Is it correct to say that that you're -- you and your mother, your family are attempting to keep Alexei Navalny's fights alive?
 
NAVALNAYA: Of course. Well our family loves Russia, we miss Moscow. We talk about it every day.
 <br>[20:35:06]
 
And it's -- I personally just want to make my dad proud. And I know that he would be incredibly happy about the prisoner swap today. He was working hard for the release of innocent people who are not even supposed to be in prison in the first place.
 
And I'm very happy about all the United States citizens who have been in exchange. And I would like to congratulate their families as well. And we'll continue fighting, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Dasha Navalnaya, our best to you, to your mother, your brother in -- in this moment. And we really do appreciate you joining us and your kind words to these families.
 
NAVALNAYA: Thank you for having me.
 
SCIUTTO: Well, the former president says he could have gotten a better deal. President Biden's response, well, then he should have done it. The politics surrounding this deal in an election year, that's coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:40:13]
 
SCIUTTO: Close to three months until the election, there are also, of course, political implications to today's historic prisoner swap. President Trump's first comment, as we mentioned, came on social media. He called the deal and the people who negotiated it a, quote, embarrassment. Just over an hour later, President Biden was asked about Trump's repeated comments that he could have gotten a better deal. Here's the President's response to that question.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: President Trump has said repeatedly that he could have gotten the hostages out without giving anything in exchange. What do you say to that? What do you say to President Trump, now the former president? JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Why didn't he do it when he's President.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Short time later, former President Trump appeared on a conservative talk radio station. He was asked about that comment by President Biden, which again was, why didn't he do it when he was president? And here's how the former president responded.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: I heard that. I heard he said that, why didn't Trump get him out? And he was taken during that time. You know, I got out 59 different people, 59, and I didn't pay money. I didn't pay money. You know, once you do that, these deals are going to happen more and more because the amount of things including cash that we give up is so astronomical. This is a big deal. And they allowed some really rough people out, you know that, right? And they did in the first case of Brittney Griner also.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: As we fact checked earlier in the broadcast, Donald Trump was involved in several exchanges himself with adversaries including Iran, the Taliban, and the Houthi rebels in Yemen that involved them that the U.S. were leading, releasing people from U.S. custody as well. We should also note the White House said the U.S. included no money in this deal and did not loosen any economic sanctions. CNN's Jeff Zeleny joins us now.
 
Jeff, this is an historic deal, the biggest hostage exchange with Russia since the Cold War. Clearly important to President Biden to complete before he leaves office. How important? What does it mean for his legacy?
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Jim, it's a remarkable piece of President Biden's legacy, perhaps a capstone to nearly a half century of his firm belief in the need for strong U.S. alliances, particularly transatlantic alliances. If you think about how he's really spent his life work here in Washington, longtime chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, of course, as vice president of the United States, circling the globe repeatedly, and now as president.
 
So there is no doubt this will be a central piece of his legacy. And just listening to his comments today, he said this would not have been possible without friendship and diplomacy, particularly Germany, as you've been reporting all day long, this simply would not have happened without that strong bond between he and the German chancellor.
 
And what's so striking about this also, if you go back and look at his Oval Office address just one week ago, he said, we are working hard on freeing imprisoned Americans. At that point, he already knew that he had the final leader to leader phone call with the leader of Slovenia one hour before he decided not to run. So this was, of course, all in his mind. We didn't know it at the time. So this is a central piece of this legacy, no doubt about it.
 
SCIUTTO: And that statement about alliances is not without basis, because there were several countries involved here who gave something up, right, that they didn't, you know, necessarily want to give up and sometimes nothing -- 
 
ZELENY: In Germany first -- 
 
SCIUTTO: -- well, for sure, and sometimes with nothing in return. How involved was the Vice President in these negotiations?
 
ZELENY: Look, there's no doubt that she has been playing a role in all of his foreign policy decisions, really watching him work. She's had a few meetings as well when she was at the Munich security conference earlier this year in February, but she outlined a bit what she's been doing behind the scenes as she spoke to reporters today in Houston.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Over many years, President Biden and I and our team have engaged in complex diplomatic negotiations to bring these wrongfully detained Americans home. We never stopped fighting for their release. And today, in spite of all of their suffering, it gives me great comfort to know that their horrible ordeal is finally over.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENY: So look, she also met with the German chancellor, the Slovenia prime minister. So she, you know, is definitely the -- carrying the proxy of President Biden. She's just building these global relationships now, but I do think this will become part of her campaign message. This is not a presidential campaign, at least as of now, that's going to be a one on foreign policy, most likely, but this is a central piece of her experience. And of course, she will be at a Joint Base Andrews tonight with President Biden when that plane lands at those three hospitals.
 
SCIUTTO: And at least it's a campaign where at least those foreign challenges are very much in the news and the conversation, whether it be the Mideast and Russia -- 
 
ZELENY: Sure.
 
SCIUTTO: -- whether people decide on that is another question. Jeff Zeleny, thanks so much.
 
ZELENY: Sure.
 
SCIUTTO: I'm joined now by Ashley Etienne, former communications director for Vice President Harris, Republican strategist, Shermichael Singleton and Alyssa Farah Griffin, former Trump White House communications director. Good to have you all on this me -- this evening. Ashley, if I could begin with you. Listen, we should acknowledge, this is an achievement for President Biden and his administration also a moment for Vice President Harris in the midst of this election campaign. How do you expect her campaign, to Jeff Zeleny's point, to attempt to seize this moment?
 <br>[20:45:31]
 
ASHLEY ETIENNE, FORMER COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR FOR VP HARRIS: Yes, I mean, to reiterate what Jeff said, foreign policy typically doesn't sway a national election. But this is, you know, proof point sort of 151 of Biden and Harris continuing to get it done, you know, it demonstrates the importance of continuing to cultivate and maintain alliances.
 
It's a testament to smart diplomacy. It's also a rejection of the isolationism that Trump and Vance represent. So, I think Harris will continue to sort of leverage this to drive the point that she's ready for this big job, for this big task, that she's been a partner to Biden in all of these efforts. But again, this is not going to sway a national election.
 
It's just, you know, further proof that she's ready and that the two of them together have continued to build these alliances around the world that are really yielding dividends and bringing Americans home safe and sound and now reuniting these families.
 
SCIUTTO: Alyssa, we played for President Trump's own comments criticizing President Biden over the prisoner swap, fact check them as well. His running mate, J.D. Vance, also had this to say during a visit to the border about the deal. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH): We have to ask ourselves, why are they coming home? And I think it's because bad guys all over the world recognize Donald Trump's about to be back in office. So they're cleaning house. That's a good thing. And I think it's a testament to Donald Trump's strength.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: I mean, the -- the truth is Trump had said months ago that the release would happen only after he was reelected, but let's set that aside for a moment. I mean there was a time when folks of both parties would celebrate the return of Americans to American soil but I suppose that's a timely long said goodbye to.
 
GRIFFIN: Well, exactly that, Jim. I mean, this is a celebratory day that all Americans should be happy about. And I would remind J.D. Vance, Paul Whelan's been detained since 2018. He was throughout the Trump administration. This is an important step. And as the Vice President said in her remarks, this has apparently been years in the works.
 
And I want to note that some of the hostage negotiators that spend months and years working behind the scenes on these are civil servants that spanned both administrations and they deserve tremendous credit. Donald Trump, this could be a moment to rise above to say it's a good thing and he's going to bring other detained Americans home.
 
He knows as well as anyone, this is incredibly hard. We worked to try to get Austin Tice out of Syria and did not prevail. Joe Biden still wants to do that. And by the way, we've got American hostages in Israel. This is important work and to politicize it in the way Trump and Vance has is silly. But I do think President Biden was wise to point to the importance of friendship. This massive deal came together because of our alliances in Europe.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. And listen, you know, it's a shame too, because both Trump and Biden as President prioritized getting detained Americans home. They both did. They actually -- they actually share that as a -- as an interest in and a priority. Shermichael, Trump and Vance are still facing fallout over something that, well, it's a whole 24 hours ago, but still has enormous consequences. And that is Trump's conversation yesterday at the NABJ, where he accused Vice President Herod -- Harris of, well, not being really black, his words that she turned black in recent years.
 
I do want to play more of what Vance said today because, well, listen we don't have the sound, but what -- what we've seen today and yesterday, in fact, is not a walk back of those comments, but a doubling and tripling down on those comments, not just by Trump, but by Vance and by other surrogates. Why?
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I mean, look, I -- I'm not surprised that the former president is doubling down. I mean, that's sort of the thing he typically likes to do in these scenarios. Obviously, I've spoken with quite a few Republicans on Capitol Hill, folks who are focused on trying to maintain their leadership in the House, folks on the Senate side who are trying to expand and regain control of the Senate.
 
And from a couple of the messages I've had, everyone has said it like, we don't want to talk about this. Like, we're trying to talk about the economy. We're trying to talk -- they're trying to make their case on, you know, some issues that they believe voters in their districts or in their states are principally concerned with. And this isn't really it. Particularly some members who are running in what we call purple states, meaning they're going to need some crossover voters. This definitely doesn't help with those voters.
 
But I want to touch quickly, though, Jim, on Vice President Harris and President Biden. What a remarkable display of soft power. I mean, you wrote a book on the rise, the return rather of Russia and China just finished that book a month ago. And it is quite fascinating seeing that soft power is still in play, the importance of alliances. Ronald Reagan spoke eloquently about that, as you're well aware, and so I'm sort of happy to see this moment. I'm happy to see that the United States continues to recognize the importance of having partnerships with other entities and countries that -- that believe in freedom, that believes in some form of democracies.
 <br>[20:50:18]
 
We've seen over the past couple of decades now that this Democratic recession has sort of increased the number of democracies succeeding. I'm happy to know that the United States is still at the forefront of preserving that very crucial when we have governance.
 
SCIUTTO: So listen, it's on the ballot.
 
SINGLETON: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: That very question was on the ballot because you have -- you have a candidate and an administration that supports those alliances, which used to be a bipartisan position.
 
SINGLETON: That's right. Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: By the way, and you have one who is -- who's the America first candidate. Just quickly before we go, Ashley, is that a winning election issue for Democrats?
 
ETIENNE: Oh, absolutely. I mean, you know, the strategy is to let Donald Trump be Donald Trump. You know, he's division over solutions. He's disdain and contempt for women and people of color over unity and love. And so what the vice president is going to do while he continues to shrink and play small, what she's going to continue to do is to rise above it. You know, she's going to continue to lay out the future -- this vision for the future of America. Speaking to the aspirations of the nation, and that's where she's going to have the advantage.
 
And that's why the Harris campaign is continuing to say that that Trump's hitting his ceiling. It's these types of hatred and this message that's feeding the base, but it's not growing his base. She's now at her floor while he's hitting his ceiling.
 
SCIUTTO: Well, we're going to know in, what is it, 97 days? We're going to know. Ashley Etienne, Shermichael Singleton, Alyssa Farrah Griffin, so good to have all of you on this Thursday night, this big news day.
 
One quick final note on that prisoner swap, earlier tonight, in speaking about one of the Russians released today, Roman Seleznev, we mistakenly showed a photo of his father. This right here is the correct photo of Roman, who was sent back to Russia today. It comes from Russian state media. We do regret that error.
 
Still ahead, Vice President Harris, the sisterhood she shares with historically black sororities and how they could help shape this election.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:56:18]
 
SCIUTTO: Tonight, as Vice President Harris prepares to join President Biden in welcoming home the American prisoners freed from Russia, she is returning from Houston. That's where she delivered the eulogy at the funeral for the late Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HARRIS: To know her was to know a true champion, a fierce champion for justice. Sheila Jackson Lee was a woman of deep faith and deep compassion. She was a proud member of our beloved Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And she was a dear, dear friend to my husband, Doug and me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: That sorority belongs to a group of prominent and politically influential black sororities and fraternities. More now from CNN's Rene Marsh.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Three, two, one.
 
RENE MARSH, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A picture of political power. These are members of the so called Divine Nine.
 
(SINGING)
 
MARSH (voice-over): Nine historically black fraternities and sororities formed more than a century ago when black people couldn't join white organizations. The Divine Nine has been a force in movements from civil rights to voting rights and they say their political strength will make history once again this election.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Day one, Kamala Harris kicks off with an army. Look at just this force in this room.
 
MARSH (voice-over): Kamala Harris joined Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority in 1986 at Howard University, making her one of the 2.5 million members of the Divine Nine. CNN sat down with a room full of Divine Nine members speaking in their own capacity and not on behalf of their organizations. They're aware of their potential political influence this election, and they're excited to wield it.
 
ARLEAN LELAND, HARRIS SUPPORTER: 2.5 million strong. Now look at how we can reach out to our families, our friends, our churches.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are the Girl Scout leaders. We are the Boy Scout leaders. We represent every facet of black America.
 
JOCELYN ROUTE, HARRIS SUPPORTER: We are credible messengers. We have been in the communities. We have been working with these subpopulations and they trust us.
 
(CHEERING)
 
MARSH (voice-over): Harris and her campaign understands the value of this built in political infrastructure and they're leaning into it. In July alone, Vice President Harris has spoken at the national conventions for three Divine Nine sororities. Harris is poised to leverage this voting block at a level we haven't seen from a presidential nominee before.
 
JENNIFER STEWART, HARRIS SUPPORTER: We're not waiting for someone else to tell us what to do and how to do it. We're creating our own playbook.
 
MARSH: What is this going to look like in practical terms?
 
LELAND: After church on Sunday, we're going downstairs to the fellowship hall and register people that aren't voting. And for those seniors that can't stroll to the polls, we're going downstairs and we're going to get them an absentee ballot.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Knocking on doors, phone calls, text banking.
 
MARSH (voice-over): This coalition is politically sophisticated, digging into strategy for battleground states like Pennsylvania.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We really need turnout in Philadelphia and we needed in certain pockets.
 
MARSH (voice-over): And sharpening the message to motivate voters.
 
WES BELLAMY, HARRIS SUPPROTER: When we say things like democracy is on the line, I think low propensity voters, they don't know what that means. So we have to have very, very simple talking points.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We also have white male counterparts that we also need to educate on how overly qualified this candidate is.
 
MARSH: What I hear you saying is that the reach of the Divine Nine will not be limited to the black community.
 
CROWD: That's right.
 
MARSH (voice-over): They believe this political moment will make history for America and the Divine Nine.
 <br>[21:00:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What people are going to walk away with is that our organizations are a force to be reckoned with.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARSH (on camera): Well, I spoke with several of those individuals in the piece. They are following Donald Trump's comments here at the NABJ in Chicago, where I am. And the consensus was that they just found those comments to be disrespectful. They say, particularly to black women. They say those comments simply supercharged their efforts to get Kamala Harris into the White House, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: A force to be reckoned with, as she said. Rene Marsh, thanks so much. The Source with Kaitlan Collins starts now.