Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Soon, Jury Resumes Deliberations in Trump's Criminal Trial; Sources Say, Many in Hollywood Wary of Endorsing Biden or Any Candidate Amid Hyper-Divisive Political Landscape; New York Officials Ramping Up Security for Cricket World Cup. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired May 30, 2024 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ELLIOT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST:  Animals in that and the conservation behind having them at the National Zoo because of how much trouble they have reproducing, they have a very limited diet.
 <br>[07:00:07]
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  I forgot you were a panda expert. I'm so happy you're here.
 
WILLIAMS:  CNN Chief Panda Analyst Elliot Williams. No, but the efforts that humans have done with respect to bringing conservation and understanding how pandas live is very important, it's great having them at the National Zoo.
 
HUNT:  Well, I'm thrilled anyway. All right, thanks guys. I really appreciate your time today. Thanks to all of you for joining us. I'm Casey Hunt.
 
CNN News Central starts right now.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Verdict watch, critical moments in the criminal case against Donald Trump, the questions from the jury that might have one side a bit more nervous than the other.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  A terror threat triggers the largest security operation in Long Island history. Why authorities are coordinating with intelligence agencies now ahead of the Cricket World Cup.
 
And Boeing is set to lay out its plan today. How the plane maker will convince the FAA it's fixing what's broke when it comes to the very real quality control issues plaguing the aviation giant.
 
I'm Kate Bolduan with John Berman. Sara Sidner is out today. Don't look at me like that, John. This is CNN News Central.
 
BERMAN:  This morning would have to be excruciating moments for attorneys, not to mention the defendant in the criminal case against Donald Trump. The jury, which has been deliberating for more than four hours, has asked to be read key pieces of testimony, testimony that was a focus of the closing arguments from the prosecution, testimony largely from David Pecker, the man who published the National Enquirer, including his direct conversations with Donald Trump about the catch and kill scheme to bury damaging news prior to the 2016 election.
 
Could this mean the jury is looking beyond the testimony of Michael Cohen, who the defense painted as a serial liar? It is impossible to know for sure. Trump is charged with 34 counts of falsifying business records to cover up hush money payments to an adult film actress, all to influence the 2016 election.
 
Now, the jury also asked for their instructions from the judge to be read once again. They will all be back in court again this morning.
 
CNN's Brynn Gingras, she is already there. It's going to be an interesting morning, Brynn.
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, John. Listen, two notes, two requests from the jurors, and this is where we start when court resumes at 9:30 this morning. That first note asking for the read-back from witness testimony primarily from the AMMI, David Pecker, the interactions he had with Donald Trump when it came that came to the Karen McDougal deal and then also the conversations that were allegedly had, according to prosecutors in August 2015, inside Trump Tower from both David Pecker and Michael Cohen when prosecutors alleged they were hatching out the catch and kill scene. That's what the witness testimony they want to hear back.
 
Now, remember this, during those closing arguments, the prosecution highlighted David Pecker's testimony saying that that should be a focus for the jurors, calling it utterly devastating. So, very interesting that they want to hear some of this testimony a read-back.
 
Their second request, as you just said, hearing back some of the jury instructions are all of it. We're not quite clear. We'll know more one court resumes. That's 55 pages of jury instructions. It took a little over an hour yesterday. Remember, they don't get a copy of that when they go back into the deliberation room. So, we'll see how long it will take for all of this testimony and the jury instructions to be read back to jurors. Apparently the testimony will take about a half an hour or so they predict.
 
So that's where we begin today, another day of deliberations for these jurors. They were behind closed doors for about four and a half hours or so, and they'll continue that at some point later this morning. Guys? 
 
BERMAN:  All right. Brynn Gingras outside the courtroom, thanks very much.
 
BOLDUAN:  Let's talk about this. Joining us right now, CNN Legal Analyst and Criminal Defense Attorney Joey Jackson.
 
Okay. So, Brynn's talking about the four -- John talking about the four questions, like the four requests from the jury yesterday. You hear that and you think what? JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST:  So, Kate, good morning, good morning, John. It's concerning if you're in the defense chair for a variety of reasons, right? Let's go back to closing arguments and Brynn's point in terms of what she said, the prosecution said. This is damning testimony. Have a listen. They're focused on that closing arguments and not evidence, but you bring the jury to the critical evidence you want them to consider.
 
To me, this is about the big picture. Yes, you can parse the specifics of the three Pecker interactions and, of course, Michael Cohen, that's critical to, get to that in a minute. But the reality is, if you're talking about my theory from the prosecution's perspective, conspiracy and cover-up.
 
[07:03]
 
Well, what happens with a conspiracy? People talk, people meet. They meet about something. About what? About catching and killing a story, not in and of itself illegal, but when matched to other critical information, such as a campaign, such as money that's paid to hush that, such as reimbursements, right, or legal fees or retainer fees, right, that's factual consideration --
 
BOLDUAN:  Depending on your dropdown menu.
 
JACKSON:  Exactly right. And so this goes to the heart of the story.
 
Last point, if I'm speaking to you about anything, it's not about the minutiae. You're not going to remember the specifics of what I said. You remember the context. What is the moral of the story? The moral of this of this story is that there was some agreement that would ultimately affect the campaign in a way that could be unlawful. If that's the case, John and Kate, guess what, there's problems in paradise for the defense.
 
BERMAN:  In one of these instances is a story where Donald Trump called David Pecker, pulled David Pecker out of a meeting that Pecker was in, to talk about Karen McDougal. So, it was a somewhat dramatic moment there.
 
Again, we don't know why the jury wants it, but it is something the prosecution leaned into. As far as having the jury instructions read back, we don't know if they want all of it, part of it, which parts, but which parts would the defense be happy about having read back in which parts for the prosecution be happy about?
 
JACKSON:  All right. So, in terms of the jury instructions, right, we know about the 55 pages, we know that the judge spent an hour instructing the jury. There's a big argument as to, well, they should have the instructions back there. New York is so arcane. I'm going to stand up for New York.
 
BOLDUAN:  Why are you standing up for New York? Why do you want them to have the rules of the road?
 
JACKSON:  Here's the here's the deal, Kate. Because the jurors are not -- well, there's two lawyers on them, but the two lawyers on the jury shouldn't be the ones influencing the province of the judges to instruct the jury. You have a legal question. You come to me and I will speak to you to the issues of legality.
 
Now, in terms of what's important, what's important is the reading of the issue concerning why we're here and how you become guilty. What am I talking about? There's this thing called falsification of business records, which in and of itself is simply a misdemeanor, still a crime, but punishable by up to a year and a petty crime.
 
But you have to make a leap with respect to getting to the felony. How do you make that leap? I think they need clarity with respect to that. We get if there's ledgers falsified, invoices falsified, checks falsified. But then how do we get to the leap of this other issue with respect to finding him guilty of the felony, the concealment of another crime? And if we find he concealed another crime, how do we get there?
 
Last point, there's the issue relating to unlawfulness. That's the whole tweet, right, right wing conspiracy, oh, you don't have to find unanimous. The jury always has to be unanimous. However, there's one issue that's critical, and that relates to if you found he ultimately falsified the business records, and then there was concealment to the business records, right? Concealing what other crime? New York State campaign finance crime, right, that talks about these three prongs. If you found that he got there from unlawful means, whether that is because of a federal violation, whether that's because of a tax violation, whether that's because of the issue ultimately of falsification of records, right, you can find him guilty, even if the jury is not in accord on the specific unlawful means he got there. I think they need clarity on that based upon the confusion,
 
BOLDUAN:  Just the simple fact that it didn't surprise you, us it surprising if they are really focusing more on David Pecker than necessarily debating the credibility of Michael Cohen in that room? Is that surprising?
 
JACKSON:  So, it is. And here's what else is surprising to me. Remember the jury instruction also, which they could be focusing on, and that is the jury instruction that says, if you don't believe a witness, you can disregard the totality of the testimony, you could accept that portion, which you believe to be credible, or you could, you know, reject portions and decide which is and which not. The fact that they're looking for Michael Cohen's testimony means he's not disregarded. They want to know what he has to say.
 
Now, you could say they're comparing that to Pecker's part, right, because they want to know what he says happened in the Trump meeting versus what Cohen says, what Pecker said, but if I'm disregarding Cohen, I don't care about anything, he says. So, to me, it means they're evaluating portions of his testimony and portions, John, are damning.
 
BERMAN:  All right. Back in court 9:30 this morning, Joey Jackson, thank you very much. BOLDUAN:  I'm taking notes on what Joey is saying right now. We also have new reporting that the Biden campaign is seeking a celebrity star powered boost, but some in Hollywood are not ready to jump into the hyper polarized world of politics right now. That new reporting is coming up.
 
And after a string of bad headlines, bad reports, and bad scares, Boeing is expected to give the FAA a concrete plan today for how it's going to fix what's broke in its plane making. Will the new plan reassure regulators and will it reassure flyers?
 
Plus, new research uncovers a possible link between tattoos and blood cancer.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:10:00]
 
BOLDUAN:  This morning, a big name problem could be brewing for President Biden, multiple sources telling CNN that many Hollywood heavyweights are hesitant to publicly endorse him or any candidate for that matter. Some of the reason, the hyper polarized world of politics that we're all experiencing today.
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez has this new reporting and she's joining us right now. Tell us more about what you're learning, Priscilla.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  Well, Kate, look, by all accounts, it's going to be a close race in November, and for that reason, celebrity endorsements may hold that outsized influence to reach voters that are otherwise hard to reach.
 <br>[07:15:02]
 
But multiple strategists that me and my colleague, Elizabeth Wagmeister, have talked to say that because of the highly polarized political landscape and also the high disapproval of the Israel-Hamas War, some celebrities are more weary of jumping into the fray.
 
And, for example, Mariah Carey in December visited the White House. She was just making a stop, putting up Christmas decorations. But her Instagram post was flooded with criticism because of the Israel-Hamas War. So, it is those moments that causes some trepidation among celebrities.
 
But, look, historically, Hollywood has rallied around Democratic candidates, and the Biden campaign is acquiring some star power. We saw Robert De Niro in New York earlier this week. In June, there's going to be a fundraiser with Julia Roberts and George Clooney.
 
But the question, too, is can they get other celebrities that are going to reach those younger generation of voters of really crucial vote going into November?
 
Now we also know who won't be endorsing, Dwayne the Rock Johnson said that he will be endorsing, even though he endorsed President Biden in 2020, and Cardi B. said she simply won't vote.
 
Now, look, I've talked to campaign officials about this. They are in regular discussion with celebrities behind the scenes and their teams. They say that more endorsements are expected between the Democratic National Convention and Election Day, stressing that it is that period of time that is crucial for them because that is when people start to tune in more to the presidential election.
 
In fact, one senior adviser telling me people know who Biden is. We need to make sure they're delivering our message. And then two strategists have told me it's the power of Donald Trump. A lot of celebrities may want to come out simply to go out against President Biden's Republican rival. And if not, they'll mobilize around issues, like abortion and climate change.
 
But what is clear here is that timing is everything. In 2020, Taylor Swift came out in October. Jennifer Lopez did the same. So, the question is, can they achieve that again when they know it is going to be such a tight race? Kate?
 
BOLDUAN:  Priscilla, great to see you. Thank you so much.
 
So, New York officials describe the event as the Super Bowl on steroids, how they're trying now to ensure that the Cricket World Cup will be safe in the face of new terror threats.
 
And zero down mortgages are making a comeback. Why it's giving the smart financial minds flashbacks to the 2008 financial crisis.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN:  New York officials are on high alert after the terrorist group ISIS-K made threats against the upcoming Cricket World Cup, which is actually here in the United States. The event starts this weekend on Long Island. The threats were specifically targeting the India-Pakistan match set for June 9th.
 
CNN Chief Law Enforcement Intelligence Analyst and Sticky Wicket John Miller is here. What are the nature of these threats? Why here? Why now?
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST:  So the threats began with online postings in late April, but there was one of particular concern that came up this week, the day before yesterday, that caught the attention of authorities.
 
Now, we need to separate a couple of things. One is threats from ISIS- K. This is a highly capable external operations terrorist group that operates out of the Pakistani-Afghan border. But they are also the group that organized the attack in Moscow against a shopping mall, a devastating attack, the attack on General Soleimani's memorial service, which killed dozens of people in Iran.
 
So, we know the capability. What you have to sort out is an external operations terrorist group isn't going to telegraph with big advertisements, a secret operation to strike a target in another country. On the other hand, they do have the flip side of their coin, which is they inspire the lone wolf terrorists. And that is probably what we're seeing here, an attempt to inspire people on U.S. soil to do something.
 
Now, Nassau County P.D. came out with a 40-page threat assessment in advance of these games going over. Because remember, it's every team, every country, and visitors from those countries, what the threat is between the particular countries involved in a game, the threats for each countries. But the FBI and their bulletin, which came out yesterday, says specifically, homegrown violent extremists and lone offenders are of particular concern due to their ability to remain undetected until operational, which basically means when the person is acting on their own, there's no conspiracy, not a lot of communications, that's a real vulnerability for intelligence.
 
BERMAN:  And that means homegrown, that means from here. Not arriving from, as you said, the Afghan-Pakistani war.
 
MILLER:  Exactly.
 
BERMAN:  All right. Interesting, bears watching. John Miller, thank you very much for that.
 
Time is up for Boeing. We're standing by for the company to reveal its new plan to fix safety issues after the door plug blew out mid-flight on one of its planes.
 
And which controversial tech billionaire reportedly talks to Donald Trump several times a month? His name rhymes with Shmelan Shmushk (ph). New reporting on what could be a growing alliance.
 
In CNN's new original series, Violent Earth, hosted by Liev Schreiber, explores the science behind Earth's devastating natural disasters. This is a preview.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:25:00]
 
BOLDUAN:  A day for Boeing, the airplane maker is expected to release its plan to fix its quality control issues after the string of safety issues that has plagued the company. The FAA ordered Boeing's outgoing CEO to develop a plan back in February, and that came after that terrifying door plug blow out mid-flight in January.
 
CNN's Pete Muntean has much more on this. Pete, what are you learning about what we could hear in this plan? And, really, how far is Boeing willing to go and overhaul to get this right?
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Kate, it's a big moment for Boeing to prove it's turning the ship around following this year's back-to-back bad headlines. Still unclear if Boeing will release this new plan to the public, but we will hear from FAA Administrator Mike Whitaker about this. Boeing is trying to prove its plan is a fix for the quality control issues highlighted after the Alaska Airlines door plug blowout that grounded the 737 MAX9 nationwide for 19 days.
 <br>[07:30:05]
 
Boeing stresses that it has already laid out clearer assembly line instructions.