Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Soon, Biden to Deliver Speech on Democracy from D-Day Site; On D-Day Anniversary, Trump Falsely Claimed Situation at U.S. Southern Border is the Largest Invasion in History; Defense Plans to Call Hunter Biden's Daughter, Uncle to Testify. Aired 10-10:30a ET

Aired June 07, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington in for Jim Acosta. We're following breaking news. Any moment now, President Biden will deliver a major speech on the power of democracy. He'll be speaking from the site of a turning point for Allied forces during World War II.
 
And former President Donald Trump is back out there on the campaign trail and once again leaving the door open to prosecuting his political opponents if he's elected to a second term.
 
Also happening right now, the prosecution is wrapping up its case in Hunter Biden's gun trial. We're live reporting live from outside the courthouse in Wilmington, Delaware.
 
Stay with us. You're in the CNN Newsroom.
 
At any moment, President Biden will stand on hallowed ground and plant the flag for democracy. President Biden is at Pointe du Hoc in France. It's where U.S. Army Rangers scaled the steep cliffs on D-Day to take out German machine guns. The Allied invasion of Normandy was certainly a turning point against Nazi Germany.
 
This hour, the president will use that backdrop to confront rising global threats to U.S. leadership and to democracy itself. He delivered a preview yesterday in his D-Day anniversary speech. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  We're living in a time when democracy is more at risk across the world than any point since the end of World War II, since these beaches were stormed in 1944. Now, we have to ask ourselves, When we stand against tyranny, against evil, against crushing brutality of the iron fist, when we stand for freedom, when we defend democracy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  And joining us now, our Chief International Anchor Christiane Amanpour. She's in Paris for us. Christiane will join the President's speech when he begins, it's expected to begin very, very soon, what are the main points you expect him to make?
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Absolutely a reprise and an expansion of what you just heard from yesterday. He will set this as the crucial battleground and frontline for defending democracy and freedom on the continent of Europe, but not just for Europe, but also for the United States itself.
 
At Point du Hoc, he will clearly, you know, be taking on a speech that many people say no other president has ever been able to deliver or match, and that was Ronald Reagan, 1984, on the 40th anniversary at D- Day, celebrating, as he said, the boys of Pointe du Hoc. He said, these are the men who scaled these cliffs, the champions who helped free a continent, the heroes who helped end a war.
 
I'm slightly paraphrasing, but that is exactly what Biden will try to say too, that even though American forces are not on the ground in Europe, they are helping Ukraine in its terrible, terrible war that Russia imposed with this invasion back nearly, you know, nigh on three years ago in March in February of 2022.
 
So, that will most definitely be the setting and the context. We've had President Biden meeting with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine, who's been there amongst World leaders are celebrating and commemorating what happened on D-Day. Macron is meeting with him, the president of France will meet Zelensky and offer him a whole load of French fighter jets. This is very important for the struggle against Russia. And they will simply put it in stark terms that Russia today poses a threat similar to what the Soviet Union posed to Europe and America back 40 years ago and throughout the Cold War. Wolf?
 
BLITZER:  And as you pointed out, Christiane, it was 40 years ago when then President Ronald Reagan delivered that really powerful speech right where you are at Pointe du Hoc and it is considered an iconic speech.
 
I want to play a little clip. I went back and found this. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RONALD REAGAN, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  We in America have learned bitter lessons from two world wars.
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
It is better to be here, ready to protect the peace than to take blind shelter across the sea, rushing to respond only after freedom is lost. We've learned that isolationism never was and never will be an acceptable response to tyrannical governments with an expansionist intent.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  And, Christiane, now 40 years later, will President Biden echo that same message of his Republican predecessor?
 
AMANPOUR:  You know, I expect so, because what President Reagan said with such prescience was that America cannot be safe just by giving in to bullies, giving in to those who wish to change the dynamics of the international world order through force.
 
And he was making that speech there. He was talking about the Soviet Union. He talked about how the Soviet Union, yes, helped during World War II and even liberating that part of the European continent, but stayed in Europe, as he said, unwanted, uninvited and unyielding.
 
The thing with Reagan that is so consequential is that he then went on and found a partner in peace, having signaled there that he was looking for a partner in peace in the Soviet Union, he found one, Mikhail Gorbachev, and then took the whole process over the line. And then you had with these two partners, American and Soviet Union, the two superpowers, were able to end communism and finally the end of the Soviet Union.
 
Of course, Putin now has come back and is in the midst of what people call revanchism, wanting to bring back the so called glory of the Soviet time, even imperial times, where Russia had a sphere of influence. And Putin is absolutely determined that he deserves, and that Russia today deserves, a sphere of influence, thinking that Ukraine is part of what rightly belongs to Russia's sphere of influence. Those days are over. The Cold War ended and there aren't so-called spheres of influence anymore.
 
Nonetheless, the absolute risk and catastrophe that is unleashed on Europe, the first major ground war since World War II is still playing out. And, and therefore everything is at stake. Not just with this speech, but pointing out to the Republicans in the United States that isolation, isolationism, America first, hunkering down, appeasing in this case, the Russian enemies, is not going to work for peace and security.
 
BLITZER:  Christiane, the columnist, Peggy Noonan, was a young Reagan speech writer who certainly helped write that critically important D- Day speech 40 years ago. She reminisced about its importance in The Wall Street Journal, especially when it came to rallying allies.
 
Let me read a quote from that article. That's why he spoke at such length of all the Allied armies at D-Day, not only the Americans. It's why he paid tribute to those armies valor, to remind current leaders what their ancestors had done. It's why he talked about the unity of the allies. They rebuilt a new Europe together, end quote. Very powerful words indeed.
 
Unity of Allies, that will be a common theme today for sure, won't it, Christiane?
 
AMANPOUR:  Wolf, absolutely. And one thing that President Biden has done in his presidency is rebuilt and worked very, very hard to reestablish the good relations between America and its NATO and other allies, these that were heavily damaged under the Trump presidency because Donald Trump had a completely different view of what an alliance was for. For him it was transactional. For him it was, you know, you pay your way and we'll see if we'll help you. For him it was, you know, really America first, and some would say America alone and America only.
 
Biden and those who think like him believe that America cannot actually exist alone behind fortress United States, but that absolutely has to and is only strong when it is in, you know, solid alliances. And of course, the same goes for the Europeans. They know that they are stronger as a democratic force when they are in the alliance with American protection around them as well. Obviously, all paying their way, and many of them have stepped up. And, of course, this was first insisted by President Obama back in 2014 at the NATO summit when they, you know, really called on the allies to step up their NATO contributions, and so many of them have.
 
And Europe has by far given the most money to Ukraine during its, you know, desperate struggle against the Russian invasion. America has given the most and the heaviest weapons. But Europe has really stepped up. And, and this is all at stake now.
 
And I will just say also politically, Europe faces European elections right now. Members of the European Parliament, and the far right forces in Europe, let's say in Italy, here in France and, and elsewhere, are looking to make serious gains.
 <br>[10:10:07]
 
So, this all is coming in the context where, in a way, everything's at stake. And Biden yesterday said, echoing again Ronald Reagan, that actually your country is worth fighting and dying for, democracy is worth fighting and dying for, because as Reagan said, it is the most noble form of government ever devised, you know, by human beings. He said men, I'm just going to say by humans.
 
BLITZER:  Yes, no, it's a really amazing speech that then-President Ronald Reagan delivered 40 years ago. Now, 40 years later, President Biden is about to speak at that very same location, Pointe du Hoc.
 
Christiane, we'll get back to you after we hear from the president.
 
Right now, I want to bring in CNN Senior White House Correspondent Kayla Tausche. Kayla, you're there on the scene for us. I understand you have new details on what the president is expected to include in his speech. Tell us what you've learned.
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Wolf, we expect the president to be describing the human element behind the imagery, behind the emotion of this place and the effort that took place 80 years ago, that there are real humans behind the pursuit of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and that ordinary Americans can do extraordinary things. He plans to say that the world is summoning us. They're asking us what we will do. They're not asking us to We're going to talk a little these cliffs. They're asking us to stay true to what America stands for.
 
Just a few minutes ago, President Biden in Marine one flew by these cliffs that army Rangers scaled 80 years ago to take out those German artillery positions, essentially enabling the Allied forces who landed here on D-Day to succeed, and President Biden is going to talk about that effort specifically through the lens of one of those Army Rangers who is still living. His name is John Waddell. He's here in the audience today, 99 years old.
 
Of course, there are more than a few parallels, as you were just mentioning, to the speech that a conservative forebear to President Biden, Ronald Reagan, made here 40 years ago. He had 62 of those army Rangers on hand. Of course, it was a different time, but there were a lot of similarities, not just in the situation that was happening around the world, as you've been discussing, but also the situation that both leaders faced at home, waning support for U.S. intervention overseas for Reagan. It was in the post Vietnam era. For President Biden, it is because of his pledge to end forever wars and the current fights that are ongoing in Ukraine and in Gaza. They also were just months away from re-election and talked about the power of democracy and the need to defeat isolationism.
 
I want you to take a listen to then and now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REAGAN:  We've learned that isolationism never was and never will be an acceptable response to tyrannical governments with an expansionist intent.
 
BIDEN:  Isolationism was not the answer 80 years ago, and is not the answer today.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAUSCHE:  Well, clearly, Biden's messaging here in Normandy already echoing that of Reagan. We expect more of that today.
 
Peggy Noonan, who, you know, is Reagan's speechwriter back in 1984, she wrote this in her memoir about the purpose and the goal of Reagan's speech back then. She said, I wanted American teenagers to stop chewing their Rice Krispies for a minute and hear about the greatness of those tough kids who are now their grandfathers and to come away with the thinking that history is real.
 
Reagan's speech took place when kids were sitting around the breakfast table at 8:00 A.M. before they went to school. Biden's speech is, of course, happening a little bit later in the day now. But I think it's safe to say that showing that history is real and it's currently repeating itself is one of the raison d'etre of Biden being here today, Wolf.
 
BLITZER:  Yes, important point. Kayla, I guess a political question, is the speech today by the president of the United States intended more for U.S. allies who will all be watching or U.S. voters back home?
 
TAUSCHE:  I think it's safe to say it's an equal part of both, Wolf, and being here in Europe, having met with President Zelenskyy just this morning, meeting with President Macron tomorrow, meeting with the G7 next week and NATO allies next month. President Biden wants to show that America can maintain the mantle of global leadership, even and despite the fact of the political situation back home and the fact that there has been waning support, not only in the U.S., but also in European capitals as some of those far right candidates in the European elections have been gaining steam.
 
In the coming weeks, of course, we'll see the composition of the European Parliament potentially change. We will see elections taking place in the U.K. So, there is a lot of change that is going to be happening here on this continent even well before we get to November. But President Biden is, I think, trying to assuage both allies here in Europe as well as voters back home, that the U.S. knows what its position is and can gin up the support to maintain that.
 <br>[10:15:08]
 
BLITZER:  Kayla, thank you very, very much. Kayla's where the president will be speaking momentarily. We're standing by for his remarks. We will, of course, bring you those remarks live. Stand by for that.
 
But there's other important news we're following. We're standing by not only for President Biden. He's back on the shores of Normandy, France, right now, preparing to deliver this major speech on democracy. As I said, we're going to bring that to you live.
 
There's a lot of other news unfolding right now as well. We'll share all of that with you. Stay with us. You're in the CNN Newsroom.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
BLITZER:  President Biden right now en route to Pointe du Hoc in France this hour. He's only moments away. He's poised to deliver what his aides are describing as a pivotal speech during his presidency. He's expected to speak on the vital importance of democracy among allied nations as Europe is still in the throes of war right now. We're going to bring his remarks to you, his speech live as soon as it begins.
 
But, first, there's also other important news. We're following President Biden's message of alliance building through American power abroad paints a rather stark contrast with Donald Trump's more isolationist vision of an America withdrawing from the global stage. On this the, 80th anniversary of D-Day, Biden honored American heroes who gave their lives defending democracy, while Trump has now, and I'm quoting him now that the largest invasion in history is currently taking place at the U.S. border with Mexico. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Two days ago, Joe Biden signed an executive order to officially declare his formal approval and support for the largest border invasion in the history of the world. So, this has been the largest invasion in history. We are being invaded. This is not people coming in.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  Of course, the D-Day operation on June 6, 1944, that began the liberation of Europe, was, and still is, the single largest border invasion in history. Trump's comments came last night during his first campaign event as a convicted felon, and it kicked off a major campaign swing out of the West Coast.
 
CNN Politics Reporter Steve Contorno has details for us. Steve, what can you tell us about Trump's big swing right now?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER:  Well, last night, Wolf from Trump for the first time stepping out on a stage since the conviction, and within moments of appearing before the crowd, he said that the hush money trial verdict, which was reached by a jury of peers unanimously, was, quote, rigged. He went on to say that if the case is not appealed or if he doesn't win an appeal, it would, quote, we're not going to have a country anymore.
 
And what we're seeing from him and his allies is this escalation of retribution rhetoric ever since that verdict was reached. Trump has had a series of friendly interviews since last Thursday, where the hosts have attempted to get him to step back from this revenge rhetoric. And he has instead doubled down. Listen to what he told Dr. Phil in an interview that aired yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  The word revenge is a very strong word, but maybe we have revenge through success.
 
Well, revenge does take time, I will say that.
 
DR. PHIL MCGRAW, T.V. HOST AND AUTHOR:  It does.
 
TRUMP:  And sometimes revenge can be justified.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CONTORNO:  Trump's event in Arizona was the first in a swing across the West Coast. He appeared as well at a San Francisco fundraiser yesterday night, and he has more fundraisers planned throughout the weekend. And then he finds himself in Las Vegas, a critical battleground state in Nevada, for a rally on Sunday, Wolf.
 
BLITZER:  Steve, Trump also made some news about his pick for vice president, a vice presidential running mate for him. Tell us what we're learning.
 
CONTORNO:  Yes. Trump confirming what we've been hearing for weeks, which is that he is expected to announce who his running mate will be at the convention that will be held in July in Milwaukee. So, we're now just a little over a month away from that announcement. And we have been hearing that the list that he is considering has been narrowed down to seven names, and I can tick through some of them for you. We have at the sort of the top tier, North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, and Senator J.D. Vance of Ohio. Vance, I should note, was with Trump yesterday in Arizona. And then we have this sort of second tier of individuals who are being vetted and considered as well. They include Tim Scott of South Carolina, Representative Elise Stefanik, Representative Byron Donalds and former HUD Secretary Ben Carson, Wolf.
 
So, that's the list of names that they are going into over this next month. Of course, Trump is liable to increase that list at any point.
 
BLITZER:  We'll see what he decides. Steve Contorno on the scene for us, thank you very, very much.
 
And we're just moments away, once again, from President Biden's speech in France at the site of a major D-Day battle. We're going to bring that to you live once it gets underway.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
BLITZER:  Any moment now, the president of the United States, President Biden will give what's being billed as a major and very moving speech defending democracy and defending freedom. We're going to bring it to you live as soon as it begins.
 
The White House, by the way, has released some excerpts from the speech that they've said we could report this. Let me read you one little paragraph of what the President of the United States is about to say.
 
As we gather here today, it's not just to honor those who showed such remarkable bravery that day, June 6th, 1944. It's to listen to the echo of their voices, to hear them, because they are summoning us. They are asking us, what will we do? They're not asking us to scale these cliffs. They're asking us to stay true to what America stands for.
 
We're watching dignitaries and veterans who are there at Pointe du Hoc getting ready to the president of the United States. And we'll have his remarks live for our viewers in the United and indeed around the world. That's all coming up very, very shortly.
 
In the meantime, I want to get to some other news that's breaking right now in Delaware, specifically Hunter Biden's federal gun trial is back underway, and the jury could hear directly from more key family members today.
 <br>[10:30:01]
 
The defense plans to call his daughter, Naomi Biden, and Uncle James Biden as they look to counter yesterday's testimony.