Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Tsunami Advisories In Japan; Interview With Geology Professor At Cornell University Geoff Abers; Israel Withdrawing Some Troops From Gaza; Israeli Supreme Court Strikes Down Constitutional Law; Russia Launched Attacks Across Several Frontlines In Ukraine; Interview With Journalist Elliott Gotkine; Maersk Pauses Shipping In Red Sea; Russia Launched Attacks Across Several Frontlines In Ukraine; Ukrainian Death Toll Grows From Friday's Russian Strikes; Putin And Zelenskyy Addressing Their Own Nations; Russia Will Increase Strikes On Ukraine; Trump Faces Ballot Ban; Some States Keeps Trump Off The Ballot; New Laws Taking Effect In The New Year Across The U.S.; Welcoming 2024 Around The World; Powerball Grows To $810 Million Dollars. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired January 01, 2024 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:00:30]
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Hello, I'm Julia Chatterley. Welcome to our ongoing breaking news coverage from Japan where tsunami advisories remain in effect.
 
Powerful waves have been lashing Western Japan after a 7.5 magnitude earthquake struck on New Year's Day. That initially prompted tsunami warnings. Those have now been downgraded to advisories, but of course the danger remains.
 
Then there's the immediate impact of the quake. The tremors shook the snow off this building in Nagano. You can also see it rocking the power lines. Power outages have been reported as well as aftershocks too. Now, it was much more violent scenes from this office building.
 
Japan's weather agency warns aftershocks could continue for a week, potentially triggering building collapses and landslides.
 
And meanwhile, a fire broke out in this city after the quake, and there are reports of injuries too. State broadcaster NHK cites officials at one hospital saying they're receiving the injured, but some doctors have been unable to make it to work due to damaged roads.
 
Much to discuss. Let's bring in Geoff Abers. He's a geology professor at Cornell University. Professor Abers, good to have you with us. Thank you much for joining us today.
 
The government has removed those tsunami warnings, but of course, vigilance is still required. The advisories remain. Has the worst been seen, at least tied to the initial 7.5 magnitude quake that we saw in your mind? GEOFF ABERS, GEOLOGY PROFESSOR AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY: I think that's right. The main risk of tsunami was shortly after that earthquake. We saw the first wave was about a little over a meter that hit the coast There's some long-lived waves that are bouncing back and forth about the Sea of Japan, but they're much -- going to be much smaller.
 
CHATTERLEY: We've seen, I think, 26, I've counted now, aftershocks of 2.5 magnitude or higher since that initial 7.5 magnitude quake. I know it's difficult, but what's normal in this kind of situation? And can we rule out a higher magnitude quake as an aftershock following this?
 
ABERS: Yes. I think, usually what we tend to see is aftershocks persisting for days or weeks of an earthquake of this size. Most aftershocks are, at least in magnitude units, smaller or smaller, so magnitude sixes and -- are possible.
 
There is a small possibility that this is a precursor to a larger earthquake. Chances of that are just a few percent at most. We don't really have a good handle on that. So, the advice here is to expect no magnitude six size aftershocks. Those can be damaging. It can certainly shake buildings.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. And the advisories remain, as we've mentioned. This was a 7.5 magnitude earthquake, as I've mentioned. I think when we hear about an earthquake in Japan, our minds are immediately cast back to 2011, and the earthquake that we saw there, actually on the other side of Japan. But that was a nine-magnitude earthquake. And obviously this is not a linear scale.
 
Can you just explain the difference between what we've seen already here and what we saw back then? Because the structure of the tectonic plates beneath the east and the west where we're talking about today are very different too and that matters, as does its proximity to land.
 
ABERS: Yes, that's right. So, this earthquake is about 1.5 magnitude units smaller. Each unit is about a factor of 13 energy. So, this is about a factor of 100 less energy in the earthquake than the magnitude nine on the Pacific side.
 
The largest size of earthquakes depends on how big the faults are. The main plate boundary is on the east side of Japan, where the magnitude 9.0 is. The 7.5 here, although earthquakes of this size have been known, it's a much sort of at the large end of size of earthquakes that have been observed on the west coast of Japan.
 
CHATTERLEY: And it's interesting, when I saw one of the videos, and I think we can show our viewers again, the office building that was shaking, and you can see screens, TV screens and computer monitors that are moving, but they're tied down and they're allowed to move, and it points, I think, to the preparations, the regulations that Japan certainly stepped up in the wake of what we saw in 2011.
 
Can you just talk to us, to some degree, about those preparations and what you would be advising at this stage, particularly for people that are perhaps looking at those warnings that have been downgraded on the tsunami and the advisories that are still in place and they're thinking, hey, perhaps I can go home if they have been evacuated? What would you caution and what would your advice be at this stage?
 <br>[13:05:00]
 
ABERS: Well, Japan is probably the most earthquake prepared country in the world. There's '09 and 2011, and there's a long history of large damaging earthquakes. And so, at least newer construction, Japan is quite earthquake resilient. I think the risks tend to be a much older construction that before sort of the 1960s. Unreinforced masonry buildings are still are a few of them around in Japan.
 
But I think, you know, the people that are very well prepared, they're really warning systems in place where people get alerts on their phones of large earthquakes, often seconds before they feel the waves, but ahead of time.
 
So, I think the concern would be mostly if you live in one of these unreinforced masonry structures or near them, those would be the places to be cautious of for aftershocks.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. And even the damage now, I mean, some of those buildings we saw in the videos collapsed, but others will be in some way perhaps compromised. And it's too early to tell what situation they're in. So, people have to be very careful.
 
Professor, just to remind us again, what to watch for now in the coming days, as you mentioned, aftershocks, perhaps the risk of landslides, for example, and what that might mean, even if those tsunami warnings have now been downgraded to advisories?
 
ABERS: Yes. So, I think this earthquake looks like it occurred on a fault that's very close to the coast or perhaps on land on the Noto Peninsula. So, the strongest -- so, the main hazard here would be strong shaking from aftershocks. There is a potential for landslides. There's mountainous topography just inland from there. In the winter, you know, soils are saturated. But I think we'll know a lot more in the next 24 hours. It's still the middle of the night in Japan there.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, yes. We'll have to continue to wait to see what the government says to in particular in the local authorities. Professor Abers, great to have you on. Thank you so much for your wisdom on this.
 
And let's get to Marc Stewart now, who joins us. Marc, as Professor Abers was mentioning there, it is, of course, the middle of the night. We're waiting to hear what the government says. Can you give us any more information about potential rescue efforts, perhaps people that have been caught in some of these buildings that were damaged? What more do we know?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, we know that the government believes people are trapped, and unfortunately, we may not know the extent of it until the sun rises in Japan, and that's still a good four hours away. But to break things down, there really are two issues at play right now, Julia. One is infrastructure, and then two is injuries. Let's first talk about these infrastructure issues.
 
As we have seen from this video over and over, when the quake hit at 4:10, I mean, this was intense. It has not only resulted in 33,000 homes being without power, it's also damaged roadways. Five highways are close. We've seen video of roads with cracks in them. That is making it very difficult for rescue workers to get to those areas in need. In particular, we are hearing stories of doctors who can't go to treatment facilities such as hospitals because the roads are in such poor shape.
 
In addition, we have learned that two airports have had some structural issues, that is going to delay the movement of military forces, rescue forces, possibly, as well as resources such as emergency kits, food, you know, the basics that you would need during an emergency.
 
So far, a thousand government soldiers have been activated. However, we have learned that as many as 8,500 are on standby. We heard from the prime minister of Japan several hours ago, he said, treating the injured is going to be the top priority.
 
Another issue, Julia, is the fact that a lot of people right now are simply stranded. They cannot go home. A lot of people were enjoying this January 1st New Year's Day holiday. They were at the movies. They were going bowling. They were in the train stations, at the grocery stores. So many people are stuck. And we understand that around 21 schools in this quake area are now serving as shelters to help people who may be in need.
 
And I should also tell you that in addition to this tsunami threat that's been lingering, there is this fear of aftershocks. And according to Japan's weather service, Julia, these threats could last anywhere from three days, perhaps well into the end of this week. We will have to see. And that's a threat that just no one, unfortunately, can control.
 
CHATTERLEY: No. And why vigilance is essential at this point. I was just looking actually at the Ishikawa Prefecture, the population, it's 1.1 million population size. Do we have any sense of how many people were evacuated, Marc, to your point that the risks do remain and those people have to be very careful going back to their homes as much as perhaps they might want to?
 <br>[13:10:00]
 
STEWART: You know, I don't have a strong number as far as evacuations, but the government has acknowledged people have been stranded from their homes, hence this move to take schools and make them into evacuation centers. So, that is something that will likely become clear in the hours ahead.
 
I mean, right now, 33,000 people at least are without power. So, I think it's also been a challenge to just get a gauge as to the full scale of this disaster.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. From Seoul there, and we appreciate. It's 3:00 a.m. in the morning there, Marc. Thank you for that update there, Mark Stewart.
 
OK. Coming up, Israel's Supreme Court strikes down a controversial change to the judiciary's powers.
 
We'll have a live report on the potential implications from Tel Aviv.
 
And it's a somber start to 2024 in Ukraine following yet another round of Russian attacks. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "CNN Newsroom" with a reminder of today's top story. Once again, tsunami advisories are now in effect after a massive earthquake struck the west coast of Japan, a powerful 7.5 magnitude quake damaged roads and buildings, hampering efforts by doctors to reach injured patients. Thousands are now without power.
 
And you can see the quake's terrifying impact in this video as a home violently shakes. The threats of aftershocks, as we've been discussing, remains high.
 
Now, Israel beginning to withdraw some of its troops from Gaza. The Israeli military says the "move should alleviate economic burdens and enable troops to gather strength for upcoming activities in the next year."
 
The IDF has warned the war is expected to continue throughout 2024. Nada Bashir is following the story. Four is from Lebanon. Nada, good to have you with us.
 
I've looked at the numbers of brigades, the 551st and the 14th Brigade, they are comprised of reservists. They're going to be returning home to their families. I think it makes sense for those people that have left ordinary jobs at home to be able to go back to their families to rejuvenize the economy and perhaps refresh after what's been a three months of war now.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: It certainly has been almost three months of war. And of course, this is not a downgrading of that war effort. We are still seeing the military operation expanding on the ground and in the air in terms of the ground covered in Gaza. And that is certainly still raising alarm bells.
 <br>[13:15:00]
 
And of course, as you mentioned, Israeli military officials have confirmed they will be withdrawing some of those troops. As you mentioned the focus partly on alleviating some of those economic pressures. As you mentioned, many of those who have -- who will be withdrawn are reservists, of course, who were pulled up after October 7th, but they will also be focusing on a strategic front and preparing for what is set to be a continuation, a long war ahead, as has been put by the Israeli military.
 
And Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke over the weekend. He said that the war would not end until Israel has achieved its goals, namely returning all hostages, but also diminishing Hamas' military capabilities inside the Gaza Strip.
 
Now, of course, we have been hearing the Israeli military officials, as well as government officials, doubling down on those war efforts. We've heard from a number of officials, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirming that the Israeli military will be expanding into new areas and we have seen that now developing on the ground, the Israeli military on the ground and in the air, expanding, pushing further southwards in particular, and that is a huge point of concern.
 
We have heard those repeated evacuation orders by the Israeli military telling civilians to move southwards for their protection. The Israeli military says, of course, that it is targeting Hamas facilities (ph). Hamas operatives and fighters have embedded themselves within civilians.
 
But what has happened now is the vast majority of Gaza's 2.3 million population are now concentrated in this southern region, many of them, the vast majority, of course, displaced, living in these huge, enormous tent cities on very little aid that is getting through to the Gaza Strip at this current point in time.
 
So, of course, as we see those airstrikes intensifying in the south, as we see that ground operation pushing further southwards there is a huge amount of concern for the safety and security of civilians who have nowhere left to turn.
 
And we are seeing aid getting into the Gaza Strip, but it is just a drop in the bucket in comparison to what is needed. Aid agencies, U.N. agencies are still calling for a prolonged humanitarian ceasefire in order to allow for vital aid to get into the Gaza Strip.
 
And of course, we are also beginning to see some patients being evacuated out of the Rafah Border Crossing into Egypt for emergency medical care. But again, this is just a fraction of the number of people who have been injured in this war, and we are still seeing that death toll climbing with each and every day. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Nada Bashir there. Thank you.
 
Now, to some breaking news from Israel. The Supreme Court has struck down a controversial change to the judiciary, one that's ignited deep divisions within the nation. Let's get right to Elliott Gotkine in Tel Aviv for us now.
 
Elliott, this refers specifically to a proposed amendment that would have stripped the Supreme Court of its ability to declare government decisions as unreasonable. It's a fascinating ruling, flies in the face of efforts. by Prime Minister Netanyahu. I think the big question here is, will he stand by the Supreme Court's ruling? ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN JOURNALIST: Julia, that's an open question. He has in the past, including to our very own Wolf Blitzer, avoided directly answering that question. But make no mistake, this is an unprecedented decision by the Supreme Court. Never before has it struck down a basic law or an amendment to a basic law, which is the closest thing. that Israel has to a constitution.
 
And what Prime Minister Netanyahu's government did is it came out with this judicial overhaul, which, as you said, caused months of very deep divisions, hundreds of thousands of people on the streets protesting. At one point, he sacked his defense minister for suggesting that he pause this legislation and then quietly forgot that he'd sacked him.
 
And of course, Defense Minister Yoav Gallant, somewhat busy right now with the war with Hamas. And so, this is an incredibly significant decision. It was a very narrow ruling, eight to seven, against the government.
 
And what Netanyahu wanted to do was -- and what they did in fact do, because it's a law that's now been struck down, it did come into effect for a few months, and it's now been struck down, Netanyahu wanted to remove the Supreme Court's ability to strike down government decisions on the grounds of reasonableness.
 
And I'll just give you one example that was very relevant to the beginning of this government's tenure, which is its attempts to appoint a minister called Aryeh Deri, who is from Netanyahu's ally. He's one of Netanyahu's allies. The Aryeh Deri's party, Shas, is in the governing coalition.
 
Netanyahu wanted to make Aryeh Deri a minister, but he's been convicted three times, most recently for tax fraud. The Supreme Court said no. It's unreasonable to make him a decision because of his convictions, and as a result he wasn't made a minister.
 
So, what this means in future now is that the Supreme Court will continue to have the power to strike down decisions such as those on the grounds of reasonableness. It will be seen as a victory for opponents of Netanyahu and all those hundreds of thousands of people who are out on the streets, week in week out for months on end protesting against the government's plans to weaken the Supreme Court. It will, of course, also be seen as a loss on the part of Netanyahu's government's supporters.
 <br>[13:20:00]
 
We're not seeing any signs of protest right now. Of course, Israel is in the middle of that war with Hamas. And indeed, those divisions that this judicial overhaul created seemed to be have been not forgotten but certainly shunted to the side. Now, this decision could potentially threaten to reopen them.
 
We've heard from justice minister, Yariv Levin, he was the architect of this judicial overhaul. He's already assailed the timing of this decision, saying it's the opposite of the unity that Israel needs right now. But, Julia, just one note on that. The Supreme Court had no decision but to issue its ruling right now because two of the Supreme Court's justices have to step down this month. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: It also could have profound implications for the war, too, Elliott, because doesn't it also pit members of the current war cabinet against each other, too, based on their views on how this should have played out or shouldn't play out?
 
GOTKINE: I think, Julia, this war cabinet -- and we're in particular talking about one of the opposition leaders, Benny Gantz, and his party, which is now in the war cabinet. The judicial overhaul is really not something that they are there to talk about or to discuss. It's not even really been taught. It's almost been forgotten very bizarrely, it's almost been forgotten as a result of this war and Hamas' terrorist attacks of October the 7th.
 
And so, as a result, I don't think it's going to necessarily sow divisions in this war cabinet. The country has generally been united in this war with Hamas in the wake of those attacks of October the 7th. And I think that the war cabinet will remain very much focused on the job at hand, which is to destroy Hamas militarily and to get the 100 plus hostages still being held in captivity by Hamas and other groups inside the Gaza Strip for some 80 days now to get them all back home.
 
Yes, this is a controversial issue, this judicial overhaul. Yes, the Supreme Court ruling is also controversial, but I think the war cabinet in particular will remain very much focused because this war, certainly from Israel's perspective, is more important than this judicial overhaul. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. A message in there I think for the prime minister too, perhaps now's not the time. Elliott Gotkine, thank you for that report there.
 
Now, Danish shipping giant Maersk says it's pausing traffic in the Red Sea after one of its vessels came under attack. The U.S. military says its helicopters intervened over the weekend and sank three boats belonging to Houthi militants from Yemen. All those aboard were killed and a fourth boat got away.
 
Maersk says the boats were trying to board one of its vessels before being fought off. Attacks by Iranian-backed Houthis have spiked since the start of the Israel Hamas war. Oren Liebermann is at the Pentagon for us.
 
So, Oren, a devastating response from the United States, but they're saying that they don't want this to be an escalation. How much of a deterrent effect do we think this now provides?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: The challenge is that it's not just a U.S. decision whether there's an escalation or isn't an escalation. And that, of course, is what we're watching for now.
 
Over the course of the past couple of months, we have seen the Houthis in Yemen, an Iranian proxy there, launch more than a hundred different attacks, mostly drones and anti-ship ballistic missiles or cruise missiles, against commercial vessels operating in the Red Sea, specifically in the southern Red Sea near a critical waterway known as the Bab al-Mandeb Strait.
 
But this is unlike those because the U.S. responded here with force after the Maersk Hangzhou, a commercial vessel that was in that area, called for distress when four ships approached and when it was fired upon, the U.S. sent military helicopters in that direction.
 
U.S. Central Command says those helicopters came under fire from the Houthi ships, small arms fire, and returned fire in self-defense. Sinking three of those Houthi ships, killing their crew. The fourth ship then returned back towards Yemen.
 
Of course, the key question now is, how do the Houthis respond? We already saw that Central Command says they launched two more anti-ship ballistic missiles later in the day on Saturday. Those missiles were intercepted. So, certainly, this hasn't led to quiet there. The question is, do we see more, frankly, direct confrontation between the U.S. and the Houthis, and how does this play out?
 
The U.S. set up a multinational coalition to protect shipping there from Houthi attacks, known as Operation Prosperity Guardian.
 
After that was announced, Maersk was one of those companies that said, OK, we'll come back and start sailing through the Red Sea again, a much faster way instead of going all the way around Africa. But following this attack, Maersk has, as you pointed out, now said they will pause operations in the Red Sea and go the long way.
 
That of course, affects the price of shipping. It affects supply chains, but it's a significant decision because Maersk was sort of leading the way in going back through the Red Sea. It was a major vote of confidence in what the U.S. was trying to do to safeguard shipping there. So, it is a blow to that effort that Maersk now says they will pause going through the Red Sea again. So, we'll have to see how this plays out.
 <br>[13:25:00]
 
Of course, it is tremendous tension throughout the region, not only the Gaza war, but also the attacks on U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria that we've seen over the course of the past couple of months, the attacks from the Houthis on commercial shipping here. So, it is effectively a region that is and has been a powder keg. The question, does this cause it to get worse? And Julia, that's what we are keeping an eye on here in the new year now.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. You mentioned it. I was going to ask you about Operation Prosperity Guardian and that international task force of nations to police this stretch of water.
 
It was only really announced at the backend of December, Oren. Is it already coming into play? Is this part of what we saw here or is that simply going to take time?
 
LIEBERMANN: Absolutely. This was put together very quickly, effectively as an -- as a part of another combined maritime task force that was operating in the region. So, they had the framework in place and they built upon that.
 
The U.S. has been sort of leading the way in terms of actually using its weapons to intercept Houthi launches. I think we've seen the French also fire once upon Houthi launches and try to intercept or shoot down some of those launches. But it has been largely the U.S.
 
That being said, there have been a number of other countries, some named, some unnamed, that have been part of the effort to secure shipping there. So, we expect to see that effort continue and perhaps even grow. The idea there was to make sure commercial companies feel comfortable going through the Red Sea.
 
But as we see with this attack on the Maersk Hangzhou, they are simply not at the point most of the big companies where they are willing to do that just yet.
 
CHATTERLEY: Security situation still needs tightening. Oren Liebermann, great to have you. Thank you.
 
Now, just hours into the New Year, Ukrainian officials say Russia has launched a series of fresh attacks. Ukraine's Air Force Command says it destroyed most of the 90 drone attacks launched by Russia on New Year's Eve. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy declared New Year's Day a national day of mourning. That follows Friday's air assault that killed at least 53 people. Search and rescue operations are ongoing.
 
And in their New Year's speeches, the leaders of both Ukraine and Russia had very different messages for their nations, as Clare Sebastian reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): One gave a detailed account of the war, the other never directly mentioned it. In very different ways, this was two leaders calling on their conflict weary populations to stay the course.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): And just like that, December 31st, today we say, we do not know for certain what the new year will bring us. But this year we can add whatever it brings, we will be stronger.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We have proven more than once that we can solve the most difficult problems and we'll never back down.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): Vladimir Putin's speech was pared back, less than half the length of the previous year, and this time no assembled company of military servicemen. Still, it was an opportunity to project strength and confidence as he positions himself for a fifth term as Russian president.
 
PUTIN (through translator): We were proud of our common achievements, rejoiced at our successes, and were firm in defending national interests. Our freedom and security, our values, which have been and remain an unshakable support for us.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): And yet, Russia's security has been shaken. Increasingly brazen attacks on Russian territory have brought the war closer to home.
 
The year closing with one of the deadliest attacks for Russian civilians yet in the border region of Belgorod. And Putin faced one of the most direct threats to his rule yet, Wagner Chief Yevgeny Prigozhin's aborted march on Moscow in June. A plane crashed two months later, closing that chapter for good.
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): We defeated the darkness.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): Amidst a stepped up Russian aerial campaign and waning western weapons supplies, President Zelenskyy stuck to his well-known tactic of accentuating the positive, including Ukraine taking one small step closer to E.U. membership.
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): This process will definitely have a logical conclusion, full-fledged membership in strong Europe. A powerful one, from Lisbon to Luhansk.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): And yet, this past week has shown Ukraine enters 2024 increasingly vulnerable. That message even spelled out by Putin in his first appearance of the new year, promising a group of wounded Russian soldiers the strikes would intensify.
 
Clare Sebastian, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Coming up after this, a dramatic start to the new year in Japan with a 7.5 magnitude earthquake. We'll bring you the very latest next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:32:40]
 
?CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "CNN Newsroom." A magnitude 7.5 earthquake struck Western Japan on Monday afternoon. It struck at a depth of 10 kilometers, or six miles, which, just for context, is actually very shallow.
 
A tsunami warning, therefore, was immediately issued, and waves were reported about 10 minutes later. That warning, though, has now been downgraded to an advisory. But of course, risks remain. And we're getting this video to a fire broke out in Wajima City as a result of the earthquake damage.
 
CNN's Hanako Montgomery has more from Tokyo on the quake and the tsunami threat.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Frightening scenes as Japan woke up to the new year. People forced under tables at this bowling alley as Ishikawa Prefecture was rocked by a 7.5 earthquake.
 
Homes and businesses destroyed by the powerful impact. This woman pleading for aid as she showed the damage to the town of Matsunami.
 
Please come help us, she says. My city is in a terrible situation.
 
The epicenter, near Anamizu on Japan's western coast, causing water levels to surge. And raising fears of a devastating tsunami potentially to come. Authorities issuing immediate warnings and evacuation orders for the areas closest to the shore.
 
In nearby mountains, tourists rushed outside as the quake struck.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Suddenly, it would get pretty strong earthquake. You can see all the snow from the electric wire goes down. So, everybody was panicked that time.
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over): Monday's impact rekindling memories of the strongest quake ever recorded in Japan, the 2011 shock, which unleashed deadly waves and caused a nuclear catastrophe as it impacted the Fukushima nuclear plant. More than 22,000 were killed. Authorities saying this quake, nothing like that one.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Beginning with the Shika nuclear power plant closest to the epicenter, there are currently no reported irregularities with nuclear power plants.
 <br>[13:35:00]
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over): The full scale of Monday's powerful quake still difficult to assess, as thousands were left without water or power, and many remain trapped underneath the rubble.
 
Hanako Montgomery, CNN, Tokyo.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Let's check in with the CNN Weather Center in Atlanta, and our meteorologist Allison Chinchar joins us now. Allison, happy new year. Good to have you with us.
 
Just talk us through what we should be looking for in the coming hours. We've heard already on the show that the risk of aftershocks remain, but that the risk of tsunamis have been downgraded to advisories. What should we be looking for?
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Right. And then, it's important to notice that, yes, we're no longer under the warnings. It's now a tsunami advisory. However, subsequent aftershocks have also been known to trigger their own tsunamis. We don't necessarily know what that will happen in this particular case, but it has happened before, which means it can happen again.
 
So, it's certainly something we're going to keep a close eye on, especially basically anywhere up and down the western coast where you do still have that tsunami advisory in place. In the town of Suzu, where we've been seeing some of that video off and on throughout the day of those waves sloshing back and forth, even though they sit on this little inlet here, what you're noticing is, if you think about it, if you're in a bathtub or a hot tub, for example, and you take a rock and you drop it in, you're going to get those waves that splash out. But then when they hit the edge, they come right back.
 
So, as those waves kind of push inland, you're going to keep them coming back and forth into this area. So, it's a series of waves.
 
Now, so far up to this point, one of the highest measurements that we've actually had recorded and observed was right about 1.2 meters, just shy of four feet. Several here right around that 0.9 meters, so just under one meter total throughout much of this area. And again, lots of them have been measured up and down pretty much the west coast.
 
The tsunami itself takes place because when the earthquake itself happens underground, that plate gets thrust upward and that displaces all of the water that's up above it. Well, that water then rushes out. For -- in the initial stages, it's still over open water, but then it begins to push inland and it becomes a series of waves is that kind of sloshes back and forth.
 
The topography in the coastline of the area that it's impacting can also have an impact on how high those waves can end up reaching as well. Now, the initial quake itself was a 7.5 magnitude right here on the Ishikawa Prefecture here. Again, we've had several aftershocks since then, you're talking at least 26 that have been magnitude 2.5 or higher just in the last few hours.
 
Now, most of them have been in that four and five magnitude range, we have had at least one in the six magnitude. The important factor here is that even though these are not as severe, strong as the initial 7.5 quake, when you have that large initial quake, buildings and homes become structurally compromised. So, it doesn't take another 7.5 to cause further damage.
 
Now, typically speaking with a main quake of 7.5 magnitude, you will have on average at least one aftershock that's a 6.5 or higher, at least 10 or so that are magnitude 5.5 or higher. And again, those ones that are about that 5.5 magnitude can still cause further damage, again, because of the initial damage that was caused from the main quake.
 
So, this is something that's likely going to be one of the bigger concerns going forward, especially for the next 24 to 48 hours, is any of those larger aftershocks that take place any further damage.
 
Also, something to keep an eye on too is going to be the potential for some landslides if you get some of those aftershocks that come in too.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Fascinating data there on the likelihood of aftershocks and their scale and size. Allison, I was asking that question earlier on in the show. So, thank you for that. And it's a clear sign why people have to remain vigilant. Allison Chinchar for now, thank you.
 
CHINCHAR: Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Just ahead, Former President Donald Trump has a huge lead in the polls over his Republican rivals, but he's also facing a challenge to stay on the ballot in some states. The details next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:42:02]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back. Former President Trump has two new legal fights on his hands, and those battles could throw the 2024 presidential election into further chaos. According to a source, President Trump's lawyers are expected to file appeals tomorrow to keep his name on the Republican primary ballot in Colorado and in Maine.
 
Both states ruled him ineligible to seek a second term in the White House. They say he engaged in an insurrection during the January 6th Capitol riot, which would disqualify him for office under the 14th Amendment. National Security Reporter Zach Cohen joins us now from Washington.
 
Zach, what are we expecting from these appeals and how likely are they to be upheld?
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Well, we once again find ourselves in a very unprecedented legal situation related to Donald Trump. And it's really hard to predict what ultimately the outcome of these appeals will be. But we do have some clues based on an appeal that was filed by the Republican Party in Colorado to the U.S. Supreme Court about what some of the broader issues and constitutional questions that exist here are.
 
And at its most basic level, the first one is, does this section of the 14th Amendment in the constitution even apply to a president or a former president? And then, you have to get into the idea of, can the states even enforce this section of the constitution. And lastly, the Colorado Republican Party has also raised First Amendment concerns too. So, those are just basic, you know, broad issues that Trump will probably try to tackle and try to poke holes in in his appeal as well.
 
But look, we've seen a variety of responses and decisions from these states. You know, we obviously have Colorado and Maine that have both said that Donald Trump should be removed from the primary ballot, but there's several states that have said, no, we don't think that it is the state's role to remove political candidates and we need to give voters a chance to do that or choose who they want to elect. And, you know, we're still waiting on Oregon to weigh in and decide what they want to do.
 
So, a lot of uncertainty at the state level. And that's why there's this increasing pressure on the U.S. Supreme court to weigh in. It just remains to be seen if they do. And if they do, what that looks like. CHATTERLEY: Yes. But the expectation is, to your point, perhaps that this is not a decision to be made at the state level. Zach, we shall see those appeals to be put in place tomorrow. Zach Cohen there. Thank you.
 
Now, in the United States, a new year means new laws officially going on to the books. Rafael Romo takes a look at a slew of new ones taking effect across the United States.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Among the most polarizing new laws that take effect with the new year are those related to gender affirming care for minors with several Republican-led states moving to enact restrictions.
 
For example, in Idaho, physicians or practitioners who provide puberty blocking medication, gender affirming surgeries, or other treatments to minors could face a 5,000 fine and a felony charge. In Louisiana, it will become illegal for those under 18 to receive those treatments, and health care professionals can have their licenses revoked for two years or more if they provide those services.
 
On the other hand, Maryland, along with several other Democratic-led states, passed protections for gender affirming care for all ages, and as of January 1st, the state will require Medicaid to cover them.
 <br>[13:45:00]
 
When it comes to abortion, the state of Washington is enacting a law with the goal of making the procedure more accessible by eliminating out of pocket costs, including deductibles and copays. This is, of course, in response to near total bans in several Republican-led states that took effect in 2023.
 
In California, a law taking effect Monday protects local healthcare providers from out of state litigation over both abortion and gender affirming care to people from other states. When it comes to laws that are not as controversial, nearly half of all U.S. states will increase their minimum wage in 2024. Washington will continue to have the highest minimum wage of all states. That's $16.28 an hour up from $15.74.
 
Another new law for 2024 getting a lot of attention is California's ban on carry and conceal firearms in sensitive places. This is despite the federal judge's prior ruling that the law is "repugnant to the Second Amendment." Under the new law, people with permits would not be allowed to carry concealed firearms in places like schools, parks and hospitals, among others. A federal appeals court will allow the law to go into effect for now, while the court case continues.
 
Rafael Romo, CNN Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, to celebrations all around the world to celebrate the new year. Still ahead, we'll take a look at some of the highlights.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Jubilation all around the world to say goodbye to 2023 and usher in 2024. From firework displays in Sydney, Australia, to the mesmerizing London eye display in the UK, through to the famous ball drop here in New York. A look at some of the sparkliest moments from New Year's Eve.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CROWD: Three, two, one.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's 2024 already in New Zealand. Fireworks there at the Sky Tower lighting up Auckland.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are right almost underneath the Sydney Harbour Bridge. It really fills your heart to be here, to see the sky exploding in color. 2024 is off to a very, very good start.
 <br>[13:50:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, what I saw tonight here in Seoul, over the top. I'm almost speechless.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So, it's not quite midnight here in Tokyo yet, but on these red lanterns, they have all these different New Year's resolutions that they have written. Things like good health hope and happiness for the New Year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you, cruise liner. Happy New Year to you. Not only the biggest fireworks countdown show in Hong Kong, but the first such show to take place here in Hong Kong in five years.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Everybody's together and everybody's got a smile on their face, and what a great way to start the year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Happy New Year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think I could feel the heat from the fireworks. They were like right on top of us. It was so unbelievably awesome and cool.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Because this is absolutely spectacular. That is the night sky over the United Arab Emirates.
 
This is Dubai at two minutes past midnight. The Burj Khalifa.
 
Fireworks there at the Sheikh Zayed Festival. Hoping to break four world records. There's no point in me competing with that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the Times Square of Tbilisi.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Happy New Year. (INAUDIBLE), everyone.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Pretty impressive fireworks display going on just behind me there above the Arc de Triomphe. Tonight's fireworks display, they're of course about the Olympics that the French have been preparing for Paris. This was really about giving the world a little taste of the show that the French can put on.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But we will hear Big Ben bong in just a moment and that's going to set everything off. Here in London.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let's take a look back at 2023.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The last few minutes of 2024, at least in this part of the world, anything can go by. It's going to be a good year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's about to be 2024 in Rio de Janeiro. Right now, there are fireworks on the bay in Copacabana. A stunning show of fireworks here in Rio. 40 tons of fireworks of 10 different (INAUDIBLE) on the water. A synchronized show with a live orchestra right behind me. And people are just so happy to be here. Honestly, there's nowhere else I would want to be than in Rio de Janeiro.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Happy New Year. Happy 2024 from New York City, right here in the middle of Times Square, the greatest place in the world, the greatest city in the world. There's no place like New York City on New Year's Eve.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Happy New Year. Now, some swimmers around the world are literally trying to clean the slate for the new year by taking a cold dip in some pretty icy waters. Just take a look at this.
 
Wow. In Portugal, revelers rushed into the Atlantic Ocean for a plunge in the chilly waves. The bathers say it's a shock to the system that will hopefully bring them good health in the upcoming year, if not a cold.
 
In similar tradition in Croatia with swimmers dressed in Santa hats and striped suits jumping into the Adriatic to begin their fresh start to the year. The participants say they enjoy the shivering rush with some wishing it could be even colder.
 <br>[13:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARIO SUSAN, KUKALI SWIM ASSOCIATION (through translator): We have wonderful weather. The sea is getting warmer and warmer every year. It's about 14 degrees and we would like it to be a little colder. Once we even had to throw ice cubes to cool it down.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: That's an interesting slam to the climate. And in Rom, divers marked the New Year by jumping into the Tiber River. Bundled up spectators gathered to cheer on the intrepid daredevils. The dive has been taking place in Rome for more than 50 years. Wow. There are other ways I can think about spending the start of 2024, but brave people.
 
Now, 2024 is about to make someone, at least in the United States, a multi-millionaire. The Powerball Lottery jackpot has grown to an estimated $810 million dollars. Monday night's drawing could give a lucky player roughly $408 million if they choose the lump sum payment.
 
The last time someone hit the jackpot was October 11th. A ticket in California won $1.76 billion. So far, no one has come forward to claim that prize.
 
OK. That just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining me. "CNN News Central" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)