Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Global Microsoft Outage Hits Airlines, Banks And Businesses; Trump Goes Off Prompter To Bring Up Biden's Name. Aired 5:30-6a ET

Aired July 19, 2024 - 05:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:30:00]
 
MYCHAEL SCHNELL, CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER, THE HILL: The big question is, as this gets guises continues to drag on and as we get closer to the convention, will some of that private pressure begin to go public as a last ditch effort? I think this week is going to be a really interesting one where there could be some movement. Because, you know, the clock is running out for when that DNC is.
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: Less true for her briefly, Republicans. My colleague, John King had a great graphic in our coverage last night that showed the amount of ad spending the Biden campaign in the millions, multiple millions of dollars, the Trump campaign aired about $33,000 worth of ads in the last couple of weeks. 
 
I don't have the graphic right in front of me, and when I was talking to John last night, he even said, Well, that was a mistake. It was just something that they failed to get off the air, because really, they've just wanted to let, you know, they don't want to convince Joe Biden to get off the ticket because they really do want to run against him.
 
LANCE TROVER, SPOKESPERSON FOR NORTH DAKOTA GOVERNOR DOUG BURGUM'S PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN: Yes, I mean, I was talking to a pollster last night who's pretty involved in a lot of different races around the country. And we game this out. I mean, I think the thinking is, if Joe Biden stays in this race, I mean, he's taking the House and the Senate and that is why you are seeing what they're doing. 
 
There's a reason they call it the doom loop particularly in politics, it's because you're getting like this vortex and you can't get out and the options they have are to keep Joe Biden take it -- it could all go down. He said Kamala Harris comes in, she owns the whole Joe Biden agenda. But if they don't choose Kamala Harris, it's like a nuclear bomb going off from the party. And that's why they're calling it the doom loop because it's really hard to get out of.
 
HUNT: Fair enough. OK. Coming up next here, we are continuing to follow that breaking news worldwide outages of airports and critical businesses around the world. Plus, before going off the teleprompter, Donald Trump started off his RNC speech last night with a message of unity.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: In an age when our politics too often divide us now is the time to remember that we are all fellow citizens. We are one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:36:21]
 
HUNT: All right 4:35 a.m. here in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is 5:35 a.m. on the East Coast. You are looking live at Philadelphia International Airport as we follow breaking news this morning a worldwide IT outage impacting travel, banks and businesses. Philadelphia, of course, one of dozens of airports around the world experiencing technical disruptions. Flights worldwide have been grounded. We are going to continue to bring you updates on this throughout the morning. If you're flying Delta, American, United, you might want to call the airline this morning before you head out to the airport. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It is wonderful to have you with us. 
 
We're going to talk politics now while we wait for more breaking news. One name notably absent from Donald Trump's acceptance speech for just the first 40 minutes. According to sources that I spoke with, ahead of him delivering this the speech was rewritten in the past several days after the assassination attempt against Donald Trump to omit his opponents name entirely the goal to try to strike a note of unity. But at one point, former President Donald Trump just couldn't help himself from bringing up the other guy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: If you took the 10 worst presidents in the history of the United States, think of it the 10 worst, added them up, they will not have done the damage that Biden has done, only going to use the term once. Biden. I'm not going to use the name anymore. Just one time. I wonder if he calls the other guy, Your Excellency, I doubt it. That the guy gave him everything.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Well, that lasted a while our panel is back. Margaret Talev. I mean, I think the big question that I had going into this speech, and it was something that his advisors talked about that you kind of heard Donald Trump allude to himself, it's big question of whether he was a changed man after what happened on Saturday night. 
 
And candidly, I was willing to entertain the idea that perhaps he was just because this is the kind of event that really can change a person. He came very close to death and very narrowly escaped, what happened to him. And there was some evidence on the stage last night that he was touching a different place, a place we don't normally hear from Donald Trump. 
 
However, most of the speech was a speech that like any that we might have heard from him over any of the last eight plus years that we have heard from Donald Trump, right?
 
MARGARET TALEV, DIRECTOR, SYRACUSE DEMOCRACY JOURNALISM AND CITIZENSHIP INSTITUTE: I mean, I don't know about his interior person, he obviously has children and grandchildren, and he's a human being, that that may have changed in that moment, may have thought about things or people that are important to him.
 
But in terms of his political instincts, from the showman start to the Nancy Pelosi talk, in the end, I think he slipped right back into what was almost an instinctive, you know, familiar pattern. And it really ended up there were moments where he did make overtures to all Americans, and he talked about how he wants to be the president for all American, not just half of America. 
 
But in the end, it was a speech to the base. And it was a speech that I think I mean, seemed like a very male show with messages for men. 
 
HUNT: First of all, some Jake Tapper use the word testosterone.
 
TALEV: Yes. It was like --
 
HUNT: To describe what was going on yesterday and this convention as a whole and I have to say I it seemed to hit it on the head.
 
TALEV: That. That's what it seemed like and felt like. And so I think part of the reason that he didn't use Biden's name except for the two times that he used it and then said he was going to use it.
 <br>[05:40:04]
 
It's not just because, you know, he wants to rise above it all and turn over a new leaf but because he wants to diminish or minimize the conversation around Biden and make this about himself and the other two -- the two-thirds of the speech was really entirely about himself. 
 
HUNT: Yes. Well, I mean, and pass the speech. I don't know if guys in there if we have any VO of Hulk Hogan and what he was doing and maybe a little bit of a sound of him in the background as we continue this conversation. Here he is, look, here you guys ready? Can we turn up that sound? 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HULK HOGAN, WRESTLING LEGEND: Enough was enough. And I said, Let Trump-a-mania run wild brother, rule again, and make America great again.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: I mean, Mychael Schnell, it's kind of a like it was if anything, it was one of the iconic moments of the night. 
 
SCHNELL: Yes.
 
HUNT: It's a lot. It was a lot going on there.
 
SCHNELL: There was a lot going on there. Remember, this was sort of like seen as a way to try to hype up the crowd. And then after Hulk Hogan, there was Dana White, who is with UCF. 
 
HUNT: UFC.
 
SCHNELL: UFC -- is just sort of going to your point there. But just you know, getting back to the conversation about is Trump a change, man. Let's also remember that his speech was loaded into the teleprompter. And he largely followed it in the beginning, when he was talking about the shooting, he did enter -- put in some other details there. 
 
But as he kept going, you know, he could have just followed the speech, but he didn't. And he went off speech. And he went on these riffs about Nancy Pelosi and about the media and what have you. So he sort of went back to his typical self, right. He went back to what his, you know, just what his sort of normal -- I can't I don't have my own tongue. But what sort of his normal speed --
 
TALEV: The greatest state.
 
SCHNELL: Right, his experiences. It's what he's sort of used to. So he had the opportunity to just follow the speech and just talk and then get through it. It was supposed to be around 70 minutes and ended up being 90 minutes. But he did it and he reverted back to sort of his normal standard self. 
 
HUNT: Yes, Bakari Sellers. Can I bring you in briefly on this? I mean, as a Democrat who was watching this, you know, I heard from a number of people who thought this was a good night for Democrats, terrible for Donald Trump, because of the way the speech kind of rambled at the end and kind of veered back into the usual territory, mostly because there were a lot more people watching, you know, most people in America probably aren't watching Trump rallies on regular Saturday nights. This wasn't that far from what you would hear at one of them, but the audience was a different one.
 
BARAKI SELLERS (D) FORMER SOUTH CAROLINA STATE HOUSE: Yes, first of all, I think that one of the unique things that happened was the media somewhat got a little bamboozled late Sunday evening, with a couple of the interviews Donald Trump gave, I believe, New York Post where they laid out this narrative that all of a sudden, Donald Trump was a change, man. 
 
And so we spent the first few days of the week talking about this change man, that never really famous day. And so one of the reasons that Democrats have to be decently excited is because the country was able to see what Democrats know to be true when you go out here and you see just the rambling man.
 
And one of the things that I also have to say about Donald Trump in that speech last night, is that he looked old. I know that we talked about it being filled with testosterone, but it's really geared toward one group we agree white men, but the fact is Donald Trump look old. He looked like he lost the step. 
 
We've seen Donald Trump on the stage for the past eight years since 2015, since you came on the escalator. Not the same person came down the escalator. He's definitely a step slower. And last night, the rambling the -- it was mixed in with some of the regular xenophobic rhetoric that he tosses out there every now and then. The same old, same old, and so we have somebody who's very beatable and that that toxic show of masculinity last night, not going to win over many.
 
HUNT: All right, very interesting. All right, we got to turn now for a moment to our breaking news with mass outages worldwide that have caused systems to shut down this morning. 
 
This is a live look at Harry Reid International Airport in Las Vegas. It's one of dozens of airports around the world experiencing IT outages that have caused delays and a full ground stop in certain air for certain airlines. 
 
The FAA says that flights from several major U.S. carriers, including Delta, American and United Airlines are all grounded in Europe and Asia airports, banks, stock exchanges, all experienced in tech disruptions as well. 
 
CNN's Tom Foreman is following all of this for us. Tom, what do we know about what is causing this mass outage and when we expect that something might happen that could fix it? 
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, what we know is that this seems to be some kind of put it in layman's terms like a software disagreement between the company CrowdStrike and Microsoft in terms of something in the way this is all interacting with each other is freezing up screens on Microsoft systems around the globe right now.
 <br>[05:45:12]
 
And Kasie, it really hit it on the head there. This is affecting airlines of course it. Blue screen right there. That's what people are getting all over as they're trying to make these systems work. It's happening in grocery stores and hospitals and trains and listen to your list overseas. London's Gatwick, Germany's Berlin, Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, Scotland's Edinburgh airport, Spain's Airport Authority, the Prague Airport, Ryanair, Air France Turkish Airlines, and of course, the airlines, you mentioned here and more. 
 
This seems to have kicked off on Thursday a bit and has been rolling forward. The latest we've heard is that Microsoft says that they believe they have identified the problem and are trying to get a fix into place, when that will be done, and how well that will be done. We don't know. We know there have been 500 cancellations of flights already in the United States. Not a huge number on a given Friday at the moment. 
 
But this is very early in the day. This is a day where it no matter what you're doing hospital appointment, anything else, you might want to pack your patients because I think you might run into this almost anywhere where Microsoft isn't as you know, that's all over the place, Kasie.
 
HUNT: Indeed, it is and even reportedly as affected television networks around the world as well, Tom Foreman, I think you're --
 
FOREMAN: Yes, we're holding on for now. Let's hope we keep doing so. 
 
HUNT: Yes. So far we're up on the air. 
 
FOREMAN: So far, so good. If you don't see anything from me till Monday, well, you'll know what happened.
 
HUNT: Tom, I'm sure you're going to be standing by for us. We'll be coming back to you throughout the show. Thank you so much.
 
FOREMAN: You're welcome.
 
HUNT: All right, coming up here on CNN This Morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To the hill to Tennessee. Across the plains of Texas. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Donald Trump with quite the entrance at the RNC as the walls appear to be closing in on President Biden's reelection campaign. We're going to reflect on this historic week. 
 
Plus, I'm going to be joined next hour by former Congressman Tim Ryan, who has been a critic of President Biden's. We'll see what he thinks about what he should do next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:51:34]
 
HUNT: All right, we've got an update to the breaking news that we've been following this morning impacting people around the world. We're looking live at Philadelphia's International Airport. American Airlines has just been able to solve their technical issues. They say they've been able to safely reestablish their operation after being under a ground stop from the FAA. 
 
A global outage has grounded flights, hit banks and businesses major headaches this morning. Across the world quite frankly, we are reporting out exactly what is causing this and how various people are working to get things going again. We will bring you the latest as we have it in here at CNN. 
 
But let's come back to our political story this morning. CNN is reporting allies of Vice President Kamala Harris are making calls to assess the political environment, quote, just in case, end quote, that is according to a Democrat close to the Vice President, who emphasized that at the present moment, quote, there is no in case, end quote, and that Biden is dug in. 
 
POLITICO is reporting some of Kamala Harris's allies are worried she could be passed over for an open convention if Biden drops out. And despite all this speculation surrounding her running mate, the man at the top of the ticket Joe Biden, Harris is pushing forward. She campaigned as vice president yesterday in North Carolina.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: So today, we are 110 days out from the election. And while many of us have been involved with these elections, for every four years practically nearly every time we will say this is the one. Well, this here is the one.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: All right, our panel is back. Bakari Sellers, let's me start with you in terms of kind of what is the future here? You wrote this earlier this week. You mentioned it this morning on the show, skip over Kamala Harris at your own peril. And I'm happy to stipulate for you. You think Biden is not going anywhere. But let's talk about the hypothetical here. 
 
Well, I had a really interesting conversation with a democratic operative yesterday, who was thinking about it from the perspective of, if this person was advising one of these ambitious other Democrats not named Kamala Harris about what the best plan for them would be if you're Josh Shapiro, or you're Andy Beshear, these are two governors who are talked about as potential future presidential candidates. 
 
Would it make any sense for you to try to run against Kamala Harris, this person was arguing, no, it absolutely doesn't. Because you would make enemies of a huge constituency of the Democratic Party right out of the gate as you were trying to build a future for yourself and that it wouldn't make any sense at all. 
 
What do you make of this? And what are you hearing about how some of these other Ambitious politicians are thinking about how to approach this moment?
 
SELLERS: So there are a couple things. First, I don't think Joe Biden is going anywhere right now. I think that's probably my framework. He ain't going away this weekend is what I was trying to frame and push back on. 
 
There's no space for Josh Shapiro or Andy Beshear, or anyone else to challenge the vice president for the nomination if it comes down to that. 
 
Look, we're not going to have the chaos of an open convention. 
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
There are many people out there. And I want to be extremely clear like we did not elect Chuck Schumer. We did not elect Nancy Pelosi as a presidential nominee and they don't get a chance to handpick individuals. And I know that that coming from Nancy Pelosi's camp and many others camp, that there is this urge to allow the ticket to bow out gracefully if Joe Biden goes and Kamala Harris is right there. 
 
And one of the things that you saw happen yesterday, which is one of the reasons that Joe Biden is a little bit more dug in, as you saw 1,400 black women who come from all walks of life, who are stalwarts in the Democratic Party, sign a letter supporting him. 
 
The last thing that I'll tell you is that people who talk about this usually have no campaign or political experience, and it's kind of weird, but you're not going to have someone drop out of a race on Saturday or Sunday, and literally leave a month between the convention where you are paralyzed and unable to campaign. 
 
Biden-Harris is going to campaign until there's an opportunity to smoothly transfer the nomination over to the Vice President of the United States, anybody who thinks otherwise simply doesn't know how campaign infrastructure really works.
 
HUNT: Very briefly, Margaret, do you agree?
 
TALEV: I think McCarty is actually making a lot of smart points. And by the way, Vice President Harris is doing exactly what she should be doing. You mentioned a couple of potential candidates we hear donors I talked to and the folks in DC and Democratic Party circles that I talked to talked about Beshear. They talk about Josh Shapiro. They also talk about Governor Roy Cooper in North Carolina and Mark Kelly, the senator, former astronaut, a husband of Gabby Giffords in the swing state of Arizona. But you -- she has to be prepared.
 
HUNT: Yes. Yes. She must be. All right, coming up next here on CNN This Morning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: I proudly accept your nomination for president of the United States.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Donald Trump officially the Republican nominee for president for the third time. His shift from a subdued candidate right back in to the campaign mode we all know.
 
Plus, we're continuing to follow breaking news around the world massive IT outages causing disruptions for travelers and businesses.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)