Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: FBI Investigates Shooting Incident At Trump Rally In Pennsylvania; Suspected Shooter Killed, Identified As Thomas Matthew Crooks; Tracking Trump Assassination Attempt Minute-by-Minute; RNC To Proceed As Planned After Trump Assassination Attempt; Soon: Secret Service Update On Trump Assassination Attempt; Secret Service Gives Update Ahead Of GOP Convention. Aired 4-5p ET

Aired July 14, 2024 - 16:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: We are watching every development here. As you heard from that call, they are trying to get access still to the gunman's phone, something that you've just heard from our experts could be very valuable as this investigation is underway. And as President Biden himself emphasized earlier, there is still no known motive yet, at least none that the FBI is ready to put out there for this shooter who carried out this attempted assassination on the life of former president Donald Trump. 
 
We are continuing to monitor all of the news here live from Milwaukee. Our coverage continues right now with Wolf Blitzer and Erin Burnett. Thank you for joining us. 
 <br>[16:00:32]
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news. 
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: And you are in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington. 
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Erin Burnett in New York. 
 
And we continue to follow the breaking news for you today. Less than 24 hours after he survived a stunning assassination attempt, former president Trump is headed to the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee. 
 
And we are continuing to learn more about what happened yesterday in Butler, Pennsylvania. We now know that local law enforcement spotted the shooter outside the rally before it started. They actually thought he looked suspicious and then, Wolf, they passed that information to the Secret Service. 
 
BLITZER: Still, Erin, he was able to take a rooftop position roughly about 150 yards or so away from the podium where the former president was speaking. Donald Trump and two other spectators were injured when he began firing. One spectator died as he tried to shield his family. 
 
And two hours ago, President Biden addressed the nation and called for unity as the FBI investigates what happened. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Last night I spoke with Donald Trump. I'm sincerely grateful that he's doing well and recovering. We had a short but good conversation. I've directed the head of the Secret Service to review all security measures, review all security measures for the Republican National Convention, which is scheduled to start tomorrow. 
 
We must unite as one nation. We must unite as one nation to demonstrate who we are. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER: CNN's Whitney Wild has been following the FBI investigation into the shooting. 
 
Whitney, this is being called a security failure at the highest level. So tell our viewers how this happened. 
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT: Well, Wolf, that is the biggest question here and I can tell you, I've spoken with multiple members of law enforcement who looked at the proximity of that building to the former president and are absolutely astounded, shocked, I mean, the list of adjectives goes on and on, that something like this could happen. 
 
What we know, Wolf, is that according to the Secret Service that building was outside of the perimeter. But the question is, what was supposed to happen at the building. Was someone is supposed to be posted there? Was there a sweep? When did the sweep happened? Ultimately, how did this shooter get up onto the roof? 
 
And the other major question here, Wolf, is that in the planning, how did the Secret Service determine the relevance of that building in this larger operational plan? Did they look at that building as a vulnerability? Did they just simply say it's outside the perimeter, this perimeter is wide enough and move on? These are the questions that need to be answered by the Secret Service and certainly the questions that the Secret Service is asking themselves at this very moment. 
 
What we know, Wolf, is that what the Secret Service does at events like this, and certainly this happened at the rally, is that they rely on local law enforcement to fill in gaps. That happens all the time. It is extremely routine for the Secret Service. And in this case, for example, they had two Secret Service counter-sniper teams available on the ground with the former president as well as two local counter- sniper teams. 
 
But again, there are so many questions, Wolf, about was somebody supposed to be posted there and why wasn't a member of law enforcement posted on the roof. 
 
BLITZER: And Whitney, we now know it wasn't just local law enforcement that spotted the shooter beforehand. Some witnesses say they actually saw a man carrying a rifle outside that security perimeter just ahead of the rally. Another told our affiliate KTKA he saw a guy moving from roof to roof. Why didn't anyone react before he started shooting? 
 
WILD: That is another major question here, Wolf. And what we understand again is that law enforcement spotted this person and they were at least having some discussions over the radio about suspicious activity. But the question is, when was this person spotted with a firearm and what did local law enforcement do about it, what did the Secret Service do about it? According to the "Washington Post" what we know is that a law enforcement officer was able to determine that the sniper was up on the roof and actually pulled himself up onto the roof and in a moment, very briefly, it's unclear if they exchanged any words, but at least they saw one another. 
 
And the shooter on top of that roof saw this local law enforcement officer, turned his rifle, again this is according to the "Washington Post," and in that moment, the officer dropped from the roof to try to take cover to save his own life. 
 <br>[16:05:02]
 
So many more questions, Wolf, about why, if this person was acting suspiciously, if he was spotted with a firearm, why there weren't counterintelligence officials watching him. I was speaking with a source earlier today who said normally what should happen in a case like this is the second you see somebody suspiciously, especially if they are later seen with a firearm, is you have someone from law enforcement watching them right away and ideally, you'd even have someone from law enforcement contact that person. 
 
Many more questions to answer here, Wolf, but certainly how local law enforcement, how the Secret Service reacted to that information is going to be crucial to this investigation. 
 
BLITZER: Yes, and we'll be hearing from Secret Service agents during the course of this hour. We expect them to start answering some of these very, very serious questions. 
 
Whitney Wild, reporting for us. Whitney, thanks very much. 
 
Erin, back to you. 
 
BURNETT: All right, Wolf, and we are now also getting some new details about the gunman and his background. We're learning more about him and our Danny Freeman has been doing so much of that reporting. 
 
So, Danny, what have you learned about the gunman here in these past moments? 
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erin, I'll start with the newest information that we just received from a briefing that the FBI conducted in the past hour or so. We're talking about Thomas Matthew Crooks. This is the 20-year-old suspect who is accused of the attempted assassination of former president Donald Trump. 
 
According to the FBI, we now know that they believe that he acted alone. And the FBI also believes that there's no indication of mental health issues with Mr. Crooks. We also have learned in the past hour that part of this investigation is the FBI has actually gotten access to Thomas Crooks' phone, but at this point they don't have access to the information inside the phone and they have shipped it to Quantico, according to the FBI, the FBI headquarters, to try and figure out how to get inside. 
 
And the other thing, Erin, that perhaps is surprising, but the FBI said it on this briefing, is that they have not at this point identified any sort of ideology that would give clues to, again, the big question that everyone has, what caused this man to go to this Trump event and open fire at the former president ultimately injuring him, killing one and injuring two other rally goers in the crowd. 
 
Now I do want to just go over some of the things that we do know in addition to some of this information, Erin. We also learned in the past hour or so that Mr. Crooks was a dietary aid at the Bethel Park Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center. It's like a nursing home that's very close to where we are, not too far from his home about five minutes away here in Bethel Park, Pennsylvania. 
 
That organization confirmed that he was an employee, confirmed that he was a dietary aide, said that they were shocked and saddened by this news of the shooting overnight. But also noted that Crooks performed his job without concern and did pass background checks prior to getting this particular job. 
 
Now, the last thing, Erin, that I'll mention is just a few of the things that we have been reporting, as you said, all throughout the day. We know that Mr. Crooks was a registered Republican. We also know that he donated a small amount of money to a Democratic aligned group back in 2021. And we also know that he was possession of an AR-style rifle, which law enforcement sources tell us was actually not just obtained legally, but also traced back to Mr. Crooks' father. 
 
And that's actually how law enforcement was able to identify their suspect in the first place because Thomas Crooks was not found with any ID after the U.S. Secret Service agents neutralized him yesterday. 
 
But again, Erin, the big question that we still do not have an answer to, what led him to go to that Trump campaign event and open fire -- Erin. 
 
BURNETT: And of course, while everyone is just desperate for answers here on that, you've got to think back to the Las Vegas situation, of course, where we never got those answers and so much can be resting on that phone, as you say, right now at Quantico, Virginia. 
 
So, Danny, when he shot to kill the former president, he did kill somebody. There were two others critically injured. What more have you learned about them? 
 
FREEMAN: So, Erin, we actually just got new information from Pennsylvania state police and I should say it is actually good information. We now know the identities of the two other men who last night were determined to be critically injured. Now we know that these men are both stable. That's 57-year-old David Dutch from New Kensington, Pennsylvania. That's also in this larger Pittsburgh area and then 74-year-old James Copenhaver from Moon Township, Pennsylvania. 
 
And I should say that David Dutch was a service members as well, part of the Marine organization here in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, said that he had to have two surgeries for gunshots in both his liver and his chest. So just a miracle that these two men are in stable condition after getting shot yesterday at that event. 
 
But, Erin, I do want to mention that there is the third victim that was a rally-goer, Mr. Corey Comperatore. He is a husband, a father of two. 
 <br>[16:10:03]
 
Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro described him as a girl-dad, a loving family man, and Governor Josh Shapiro said that he spoke with the wife of Corey earlier today who told him that Corey is a hero. Not only was he a firefighter, but also when those shots rang out, Mr. Comperatore dove on top of his family members who are also at that rally protecting them from coming gunfire. 
 
The last thing I'll note on that, Erin, is that U.S. flags and Commonwealth flags here in Pennsylvania have been lowered to half- staff in honor of Mr. Comperatore today -- Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right, Danny, thank you very much. Wolf. 
 
BLITZER: And our deepest, deepest condolences to his family and his friends, and may his memory be a blessing, as we say. 
 
And we are now learning more about the timeline of events leading up to yesterday's shooting. CNN's Tom Foreman has the latest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): 6:04 Saturday evening, before an adoring and roaring crowd former president Donald Trump steps to the podium. Seven and a half minutes later -- 
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Take a look at what happened -- 
 
FOREMAN: Pandemonia. Amid a series of sharp pops, Trump touches his ear and ducks. Three seconds later, Secret Service agents are swarming in to shield him and security snipers have opened fire on the would-be assassin. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It seemed initially like firecrackers went off. 
 
FOREMAN: As chaos erupts among the attendees -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's got a gun. He's got a gun. 
 
FOREMAN: One rally-goer sees another man has been killed despite the rescue efforts of bystanders. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They jumped the bleachers and started clearing the bleachers. And then I helped carry the body of the man down on the bleachers and I took him to a tent behind the bleachers. We put a towel over his head, but he is deceased. 
 
FOREMAN: It all happens fast, 30 seconds after the first shots ring out, the podium's microphone catches Secret Service agents coordinating Trump's evacuation from that stage. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hold, hold. When you're ready, on you. 
 
FOREMAN: Then just over a minute after the violence started the all- clear. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Shooter's down. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Shooter's down. 
 
FOREMAN: At 6:12 p.m. the agents rise with Trump and try to usher him rapidly away but he says -- 
 
TRUMP: Let me get my shoes. Let me get my shoes. 
 
FOREMAN: Shortly after he's on his way to a safe vehicle, but he tells agents to pause again. He turns to the rattled crowd in what will become an historic photo. Soon, pictures start surfacing of what appears to be a dead gunmen on a roof not more than 500 feet away from Trump's right side as he stood on the stage. And the much more methodical police work begins. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We need the public's help. Anyone who was on scene, who saw anything. 
 
FOREMAN: As the FBI and partners start piecing together who the assailant is, how he got there, whether he acted alone and ultimately why he fired. An investigation that certainly will go on for months into a violent explosion of seconds. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLITZER: And our thanks to Tom Foreman for that report. Thank you. 
 
And joining us now CNN senior national security analyst, the former assistant Homeland Security secretary Juliette Kayyem, and CNN senior law enforcement, the former Philadelphia police commissioner, also the former D.C. police chief, Charles Ramsey. 
 
Thanks to both of you for joining us. 
 
Chief Ramsey, do you consider this a security failure? 
 
CHARLES RAMSEY, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Absolutely. There's no question about it. I mean, listen, this sort of thing is not supposed to happen. The president is absolutely right by calling for an independent investigation. That in my mind means it should not be an internal investigation by the Secret Service. Someone else should take over the investigation. But they have to find out what took place so it doesn't happen again. I mean, clearly a gunman to be able to get that close to a protectee and actually wound that individual, there's just no excuse for it. 
 
Something broke down and the more we find out about things like seeing a suspicious person. I mean, did anybody make physical contact with this individual? How did he get on the roof? And then there's one report that there was a cop up there who looked after he saw the individual. Who that is, I don't know. But the bottom line is, something broke down and they got to find out and find out quickly. 
 
Tomorrow starts the RNC, a month later, you got the DNC, and in between, you're going to have a former president, a current president, and both their vice presidents out actively campaigning. And so we have to fix this problem. 
 
BLITZER: You're absolutely right. 
 
Juliette, in your latest article in "The Atlantic," you say, and I'm quoting you now, "Political violence reveals deep cultural dysfunction. And that dysfunction is what our leaders must address. No security perimeter can shield our fractured democracy." 
 
So what are our political leaders, Juliette, need to do now in order to address this current political climate? 
 <br>[16:15:00]
 
JULIETTE KAYYEM, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: So, I mean, it's basically that we have to stop talking in terms of annihilation, right? I mean, this is the -- it's a zero sum game. I had been consistent and it's difficult to talk about this now because there was an assassination, but a consistent in that the divisions that we have which are natural part of our democracy historic cannot be extended to violence. 
 
And in other words, that cannot be a natural extension of our politics. We, I'm just quoting the FBI, we have seen the rise of exceptionally challenging times for public officials, in particular judges, secretaries of state, in terms of right-wing focus on them, and then as we've seen with the Supreme Court, Congress, and now former president Trump, violence against them. This sort of permissiveness that has become part of the way we talk as a nation. 
 
It's not sustainable as a democracy. I'm going to be it entirely clear here. We have got to stop this permissiveness of the use of language because even if the speaker doesn't mean it, clearly people are hearing it as a permission structure. And so that, you know, look, I agree with Chief Ramsey like something went terribly wrong in terms of communication, in terms of planning, in terms of all sorts of aspects of law enforcement. 
 
But you can't have a security perimeter to cover our democracy. It's just not possible. And we have to really address that as well. 
 
BLITZER: Good point. Chief Ramsey, there's currently a lot of criticism, as you well know, of law enforcement in regards to this incident. We have heard reports from witnesses that they actually tried to warn officers that there was a gunman on the roof not that far away. What do you make of that? 
 
RAMSEY: Well, that's why you have to have a thorough and complete investigation and get all the facts out there. I was disturbed yesterday when the Secret Service was not represented at the press conference. I mean, listen, I've been in tough situations having run two police departments, things often go wrong. But that means it's more important for you to be out there during those times than in other times. 
 
I mean, bad news does not get better with age. That's a fact. And so even if it's bad, you've got to get it out there because if you don't, then it just gets worse. And so it is what it is. Everybody -- doesn't take a brain surgeon to figure out there was a breakdown in security. The question now is how did it happen, what actually happened, who's responsible for what. It's not so much finger-pointing, it's just fixing a systemic issue that obviously exists, at least it did yesterday. 
 
BLITZER: Yes, the chief makes an important point, Juliette, and I'm anxious to get your thoughts yesterday when we saw that news conference, that briefing, what happened. We heard from the FBI, we heard from Pennsylvania State Police, from local police over there in Butler, Pennsylvania, but the Secret Service was not there and clearly they didn't answer any questions. 
 
We are told, Juliette, that there will be a Secret Service briefing coming up this hour in Milwaukee. We're going to be taking -- have live coverage of that. I'm anxious to hear what they have to say. But why didn't they show up and why aren't they talking at least until now? 
 
KAYYEM: So it wasn't good that they didn't show up. They probably didn't want to take questions. They might not know the answers to some of the questions. The fundamental question right now is who established and approved of the security perimeter? Because I've seen this movie where someone, you know, a sniper wants to kill someone famous or a VIP or politician, and they're going to do it from the roof. 
 
And the thing that's sort of shocking to me is that the Secret Service knew enough to have a counter-sniper, but didn't seem to protect the building. So some calculation is being made that's not in any sort of basic planning, security planning. It's not making sense rationally. You wouldn't have a counter-sniper unless you expect a sniper threat. If that's the case, why are you not protecting the buildings? 
 
So it's not good that there's this breakdown in terms of communication. I think they're going to regroup. I think President Biden was absolutely right, it has to be an outside review. You cannot have the Secret Service who has had systemic issues. This is unfortunate, but an issue that they really need to have someone from the outside come in and get this agency to be able to be as good as it needs us -- as we need it to be. 
 
I mean, we need it to be better than it performed. And that's actually a wish. You know, I mean, it's not a criticism, it's a wish. BLITZER: The stakes clearly are enormous. 
 
Juliette Kayyem, Chief Ramsey, to both of you, I want you to stand by. We're going to get want your thoughts after this upcoming Secret Service briefing that we'll have live coverage of right here on CNN. 
 <br>[16:20:04]
 
Also coming up, we're following all of the other dramatic news involving this assassination attempt. Lots going on right now. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BURNETT: Well, the Republican convention will open on Monday. That's the scheduled plan. It has not been changed. The shooting has not altered the plans to formally nominate the former president in Milwaukee. 
 
Jeff Zeleny joins us with the latest from Milwaukee on the ground. 
 
So, Jeff, what are you hearing about any shifts or discussion about shifting that then obviously was shut down. 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erin, the backdrop of this entire convention, of course, has changed dramatically as has the presidential campaign. And for the next 114 days of course we will see that play out. But for now, at least over the next week here in Milwaukee, the convention is going on as scheduled. 
 <br>[16:25:05]
 
Thousands of delegates have already descended here upon Milwaukee by tomorrow when they gavel the convention in. There'll be about a several more than that. And look, this is going to be different tone in terms of the convention, but former president Donald Trump making his way here to Milwaukee this evening and we're getting word of slightly different convention schedule which is one example. 
 
One of his former challengers, Nikki Haley, former South Carolina governor, she has been invited to address the convention on Tuesday. Just a couple of days ago she was intentionally not invited. Now she is. I'm told that's a sign of unity the Trump campaign wants to extend. So, look, there are limits to how many changes there will be made, but that certainly is one of them. 
 
But the reality is, Erin, so much has changed in this moment for the country, and indeed this presidential campaign. But Republican delegates here are now more committed and more intent than ever to win this election and here in battleground Wisconsin, this of course is one of the most important states of all, that's the backdrop it's playing out in. But here on this Sunday afternoon Republicans are excited to welcome Donald Trump and of course grateful and thankful he's OK. BURNETT: And I'm curious, Jeff, when you talk about Nikki Haley,
 
 right, and as you know, it had been interesting that she wasn't invited and purposely so. Now, not only invited, but coming and going to deliver an address, as you say, on Tuesday. There are obviously we know others on the speaker list. A lot of very ardent Trump supporters and backers. 
 
Are you hearing anything about, I don't know, whether the talking points or the speeches? I mean, is there going to be sort of a big shift in the entire event? 
 
ZELENY: Erin, I would be surprised if there was a big shift, but I think on the margins there might be and this is something that is really being decided and playing out in real time. And as we well know now, this is Donald Trump's -- it's his third Republican convention, but it's his first one where the Republican Party is united entirely around him. 
 
Of course four years ago was the pandemic. So it was really not a convention at all in the traditional sense. He gave a speech on the South Lawn of the White House. But you'll remember eight years ago in Cleveland at that convention, there were many Republicans who were not with him, who were not on board with him. This is an entirely different moment. So he is calling the shots here. 
 
But his advisers say that he will be coming here spending the weekend. And of course, he is going to be announcing his vice presidential running mate. That could come as early as tomorrow. Of course, the timing is his choice. But that is going to be one of the biggest decisions of course he makes as the presumptive nominee. By the end of this week he will be the nominee. 
 
So, Erin, I think we'll just have to watch very carefully. Of course, there are limits to how much some Republicans and Democrats want to talk about unity. They are dug in here and it is a brutal campaign. But I think the direction from the top, what Donald Trump says, what he does will be very instructive to what type of campaign he thinks he can run from here forward and if it is a moment to try and win over some of those voters who up until now have been skeptical of him -- Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right. Jeff Zeleny, thank you very much. 
 
And ahead here for Wolf and myself, in moments, we expect to hear from the Secret Service. That briefing, that live briefing we expect that to start any moment. And we will bring that briefing to you so stand by. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:32:57]
 
BLITZER:  Once again, we're waiting for a briefing to begin any moment now. You're looking at live pictures over there at the podium, the lectern. This is the first time we're going to be hearing directly from the
 
 U.S. Secret Service, and indeed other top officials. They are now in Milwaukee. 
 
Security is very tight and it's about to get a lot tighter. We expect them to address what happened yesterday, the assassination attempt against the former president of United States, and how all of that will impact this week's Republican National Convention in Milwaukee.
 
CNN's Shimon Prokupecz is on the ground for us in Milwaukee. 
 
Shimon, what are you learning right now about the security at the convention? 
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER:  Well, Wolf, we expect to get an update here shortly from the secret service and other law enforcement officials here in Milwaukee, including the police chief, and some of the other city officials, including the mayor. We just see them walk down the aisle here, so we should be hearing from them at any moment. 
 
Certainly after the events of Saturday, the security here in Milwaukee is a big concern. We've seen a large police presence here already from all across the country. Law enforcement officials, state police and local police officers that are coming into this town to help with security. We're waiting to see and potentially here, if the Secret Service, which is in charge of the security here in Milwaukee, if they plan to make any changes as a result of what happened, the attempted assassination of the former president. 
 
So, that's what were waiting to hear from the Secret Service. And also if they're going to answer any questions about what happened on Saturday, of course, and some questions that have been raised about the security leading into the former president's rally. 
 
So at any moment here, Wolf, we do expect to hear from these officials and certainly for the first time, from the Secret Service. We'll see if they the address. Any of course, the lingering questions about what happened on Saturday. 
 
BLITZER:  Security, we know Shimon at the Republican convention in Milwaukee was already very, very tight, but now its expanding dramatically. And we're told it's going to be expanded dramatically for the Democratic convention next month in Chicago as well. 
 <br>[16:35:07]
 
Is that right?
 
PROKUPECZ:  Yeah, that's right. 
 
But one of the things -- we heard from the FBI today, just a short time ago that updated us on the investigation, but one of the things that the assistant director race was that they are seeing an uptick in rhetoric. There is a lot of concern that things that are being said online or elsewhere that could drive the threat. And that is something that is very concerning for law enforcement officials. 
 
Look, Wolf, as you know, rhetoric was already high. A lot of the chatter was very concerned turning to law enforcement officials. But because of what happened yesterday, the FBI says they're seeing an increase in that rhetoric and some of the threats which has raised a lot of concern for them. And so as a result, certainly for the FBI, that they intend to step up some of their investigations, some of the security that they're concerned with, they've certainly are stepping up. 
 
We do expect to see some increase in security here. The local law enforcement officials that I was taught that I was talking to today, saying there waiting to hear from the secret service on exactly what the changes will be because the Secret Service is running the security here.
 
But there's certainly a lot of tension here. You could feel it certainly I was here yesterday. You didn't feel the same tension many of the law enforcement officials here are very aware of what happened and they understand here that the situation has changed. 
 
And so they certainly expect to take different precautions and to step up some of their efforts here and making sure that the week goes smoothly. And nothing here happens. 
 
BLITZER:  Shimon, I want you to stand by. I want to bring back the former D.C. police chief, Charles Ramsey and the former official from the Department of Homeland Security, Juliette Kayyem.
 
As we await for the start of this Secret Service briefing in Milwaukee, Chief Ramsey, what specifically do you want them to answer? Because there's enormous amount of concern that there were some blunders that were made yesterday, allowing this 20-year-old to walk up to this elevated rooftop position with a weapon -- with a rifle and all of a sudden start firing shots at the former president of the United States.
 
RAMSEY:  Well, certainly, they're going to hopefully provide some information around yesterdays events. Now, there'll be some information they simply cannot release added security measures and things of that nature. I mean, bad guys watch television too. So, you know, there are going to be some things they can't do, but they need to at least reassure the public that there is an investigation going in to the matter, that they take it obviously take it very, very seriously and are going to take whatever action is appropriate. 
 
But they need to admit that there was some breakdown in security and they don't have to get into detail, but they need to at least acknowledge that there needs to be changes made. At least that's what I would hope to hear.
 
BLITZER:  And, Juliette, they really need to do a full scale investigation to learn of these potential mistakes in order to make sure it never happens again. We're talking about the security of a former president in United States and the security of sitting presidents of the United States as well. KAYYEM:  Yeah, you know that phrase, you had one job. I mean, this is really the Secret Service's job and they did a great job as eliminating the threat once it was clear that it was a threat. But it began well before yesterday's rally. I am focused on who established this security zone, essentially in which if you were in the zone, you are -- you're basically check for guns, your patted down or whatever and then outside the security perimeter and once you decide that you're going to have sort of a protected class, a group of people who are going to be checked and then an unprotected area. What is going on and that unprotected area? 
 
Well, the pictures now show a building very, very close to where the president was. 
 
And so, I think it'd begun well before Saturday. It may be -- it may be legacy in terms of how they plan. It may be too much reliance on state and locals and their determination is it -- is it just, you know, that they think, well, if we have a counter-sniper, it's going to be okay. There's lots of things that you can do before you get to that moment, including security the building, so that its not it seemed like it was relatively easy access for him. 
 
So, I'm actually not looking at Saturday. I'm looking at, you know, Monday and Tuesday of last week when there really tightening the security around that area.
 
BLITZER:  We're going to squeeze in a very, very quick break right now. And our special coverage will continue. We have live coverage of this first U.S. Secret Service briefing on what happened and didn't happen. So let's listen in.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:44:14]
 
BURNETT:  All right. Welcome back. Wolf, and I are here, and we are awaiting what you see on your screen. 
 
Secret Service is going to go to that podium and they are going to be having a press conference. 
 
And you know, Wolf, I think it's interesting as we're waiting getting them here any moment, we know that the purpose of this press conference is to talk about security at the RNC in light of what happened yesterday. But, obviously, there are reporters in that room, Shimon is one of them, our Shimon Prokupecz. 
 
And they are going to have a lot of questions, right? We've just gotten this reporting that a local -- local law enforcement yesterday had seen the shooter, had told Secret Service about it. We don't know what happened then. There are so many questions that even in the context of a press conference extensively about security at the RNC, there's going to be questions, a lot of them about what happened yesterday, Wolf.
 
BLITZER:  You make a very, very important point. [16:45:03]
 
And I want to alert our viewers when they come out, the Secret Service, and other law enforcement spokespeople right now, they're going to open up with how they're dealing with potential security issues at the Republican convention, which begins tomorrow in Milwaukee. 
 
But more importantly, I think will be for all of us to hear their answers if they do answer questions and we're told they will be taking questions from reporters, including our own Shimon Prokupecz who's there getting ready to ask questions? The answers to what happened yesterday, the assassination attempt. This will be the first time that the Secret Service will be answering questions. We hope about what happened and what didn't happen, what the Secret Service did, right? What potentially they did wrong? 
 
There'll be an enormous amount of questions. There's high interest rate now in what happened yesterday, was there a major intelligence blunder on the part of the Secret Service? So those questions will be really significant, and we'll see how that goes at this briefing that is about to begin, Erin. All of us are waiting anxiously.
 
Yesterday, there was a briefing. The FBI was there, Pennsylvania state police were there. The Secret Service didn't show up for that briefing, which raised enormous amount of questions in my mind as someone who's covered these issues for a long time, why was that the Secret Service there. 
 
They are now getting ready. We hope to answer some questions. We'll see how they do.
 
BURNETT:  Right. And, Wolf, you know, I mean, they've talked about how there's going to be an investigation and obviously, you've got calls in Congress for that, but its also been made clear by the Biden administration, right, homeland security. There's going to be an investigation and everything that happened. 
 
But as you point out an investigation is one thing and important hearings obviously could be important but what also matters is what we find out now, not finding out in months from now. You know, there are real questions, obviously. The numbers we've talked about, Wolf, 150 yards away in terms of where that sniper had located himself from where the former president of the United States was. 
 
And all of this, Wolf, the context is, of course, the president's okay, another person died. People are seriously injured, and they have to answer the question of nobody wants to be in the situation of saying, well, we got lucky, right? They got lucky that shot didn't hit.
 
BLITZER:  Yeah, because it would've been an inch or so, or even half an inch elsewhere could have gone right through, God forbid, the former president skull. It's really an enormous issue right now. And there have been so many reports over the past 24 hours, Erin, as, you know, reports that eyewitnesses actually alerted the secret service that there were someone a top this elevated their location only about 150 yards or so away. 
 
Direct shot towards the podium the former president was getting ready to speak. That there was someone there with a weapon, an AR style type of rifle, and what are the Secret Service do if anything? And there were other reports that even law enforcement local law enforcement were alerting the Secret Service to a potential threat from that rooftop location. And apparently not enough was done in advance to protect the former president and others who were there, who were gathered at this political rally. 
 
So let's see if the Secret Service is getting ready to answer some of those questions right now, I think it's very significant.
 
BURNETT:  And, Wolf, you know, as we await them coming up to the podium, will said, Secret Service, other law enforcement as well, could be in there with reporters in the room. What we do know is just a scene of utter chaos that unfolded in light of what happened and how things were handled, and as these questions are ready to be addressed to the Secret Service, I just want to give everyone a chance to think about what it was like for the people who were there yesterday who saw what happened, who thought they might die, who saw someone else die and get injured.
 
Let's just play for you the eyewitnesses that we have heard from.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEN MACER, WITNESS:  I was up at the fence line saw the guy move from roof to roof, talked -- told an officer that he was on the roof. When I turned around to go back to where I was when the gunshots started. 
 
REP. DANIEL MEUSER (R-PA):  Everybody started certainly screaming, asked me for a medic and honestly was a -- was a bloody scene.
 
DAVID MCCORMICK (R), PENNSYLVANIA SENATE CANDIDATE, WITNESS:  That was like, all of a sudden, just chaos. The Secret Service immediately covered the president, jumped on top of him, and the crowd obviously, all went immediately to it's -- to the ground. 
 
MAYOR JONDAVID LONGO, SLIPPERY ROCK, PA, WITNESS:  I saw him take his fist in the air and let us know that he was okay. It's still on the back of my mind. There was the thought of the individual who was shot behind us. There was a shot at the thought of my wife, who was still on the ground. 
 
JOSEPH MEYN, WITNESS:  I think the problem is we have a very -- everyone seems very angry and it makes you kind of -- you know, I'll go to a Trump rally again, but I'll think twice.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT:  All right. We are awaiting that press conference, just getting an alert here that the FBI says that the suspects motive so far are unclear, even though they have some limited insight into the shooter's communications as we now know they have the cell phone and are trying to get access to everything that might be on it. 
 
But from the FBI a moment ago, the motive still unclear, as we await this press conference from the Secret Service and law enforcement, any moment.
 <br>[16:50:02]
 
Wolf and I will be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:53:19]
 
AUDREY GIBSON-CICCHINO, SECRET SERVICE RNC COORDINATOR:  -- national special security event. That designation is the highest level of security designation that -- that the federal government can determine. So we are confident they -- in these security plans that are in place for this event and we're ready to go. 
 
It's been an 18-month process. It's the -- we've worked together over that 18 months to develop operational security plans for any and all aspects of security related to this event. 
 
REPORTER:  But did it change within the last month? Any change being made in the last 24 hours?
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  We're not anticipating any changes to our national security plans for this event.
 
REPORTER:  Thank you.
 
REPORTER:  (INAUDIBLE)
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  I had not had any conversation regarding that, so I can't speak to that.
 
REPORTER:  (INAUDIBLE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I had not had any conversations regarding that, so I can't speak to that.
 
REPORTER:  (INAUDIBLE)
 
REPORTER:  Is the Secret Service currently anticipating or currently planning to expand the perimeter?
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  We're not just making any changes to our current security (INAUDIBLE) plan.
 
REPORTER:  Including allowing firearms into the soft perimeter as it is right now?
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  Anything in the soft perimeter is outside of our federal jurisdiction. 
 
REPORTER:  Why should former President Trump, his family, and the convention goers have confidence in the U.S. Secret Service to secure this site here over the next four days after his life was nearly taken yesterday?
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  So this has been and has been designated as a national special security event, which is the highest level of security for an event that can be designated by the government. 
 <br>[16:55:01]
 
So this is a whole-of-government approach. We've had an extensive planning process to include many organizations, building out the operational security plans for any and all aspects of security related to this event.
 
REPORTER:  Have you had the resources you need? 
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  Yes. We are fully prepared and have a comprehensive security plan in place and we're ready to go.
 
REPORTER:  (INAUDIBLE) 
 
REPORTER:  (INAUDIBLE)
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  So we're confident in the current plan that we have. It is based off of a technical assessment, protective intelligence, and I -- we are continuously monitoring information related to the event. So we're confident in the plans that we have and we're moving forward with his plans. 
 
REPORTER:  And why are you not concerned that people can carry firearms within that soft perimeter? 
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  So again, the Secret Service inner perimeter is our primary jurisdiction. So I would defer any questions related to outside of that zone to my partners here on the stage. Yeah.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So one of the things I understood in regards to the inner perimeter is a large inner perimeter that has been part of the convention to my understanding, maybe I have to get that clarified. and so that is one important point to be able to understand in regards to what that level of security about, what the interpreter looks like.
 
In regards to the ability to carry a firearm outside of the inner perimeter -- again, a state law allows for the particular right to carry a firearm. 
 
We as a city cannot legislate out of that, and our mayor wants to speak on any more in regards to that. And so, we in regards to our law enforcement has to say, we'd have to operate within those guidelines. Unless there's something that is against state law, we have to respect Second Amendment right to carry your firearm, especially in regards to open carry or carry or conceal if you're licensed.
 
And so that is a -- again, issue that we have to navigate and I will say this and I've said this many times as that is your right, please exercise your right in a responsible manner, please ensure that the behaviors that we would like to see for those with that responsibility aligns with our responsibility. 
 
The Milwaukee police department will not tolerate any particular behaviors outside of what is legally allowed in regards to that right.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you, Chief. 
 
And just to reiterate what the chief said, local ordinances in the state of Wisconsin do not supersede state law. Wisconsin is an open carry state and therefore, the city of Milwaukee and no other jurisdiction in this secant supersede that state law.
 
Folks should be aware of though that proactively before the convention get started, we did take actions to local level to ban items that we could. So we use our authority already at the municipal level to take that security precaution that we were able to do. But in terms of banning weapons in the outer perimeter, that is not within our purview because of state law.
 
REPORTER:  (INAUDIBLE) with "The New York Times".
 
For the Secret Service, there haven't been any changes overall security plan, any changes to protection plan for former president, his family under that conditions?
 
GIBSON-CICCHINO:  So I'm an RNC coordinator, so I can only speak to the national special security event, the plans that we have in place will continue as it is, and we're confident in his plans.
 
REPORTER:  (INAUDIBLE)
 
MICHAEL HENSLE, FBI SPECIAL AGENT:  Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our Michael Hensle, the special agent in charge of the FBI for the state of Wisconsin.
 
For your first question, the men and women of the FBI in the state of Wisconsin have been working on our six offices, along with the assistance of our 56 field offices across the United States and our domestic and international federal partners have worked over the last 18 months to take information and intelligence and the evaluate that information and then disseminate to both our state and local partners to address any threats. 
 
Currently, there are no known articulated threats against the RNC or anyone visiting the RNC. That's important because we also need the help of the public if they see something during this time or feel uncomfortable something, please let us know. Let your local law enforcement agencies know or the FBI want to hear, call the FBI.
 
REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE)
 
REPORRTER: (INAUDIBLE) for Secret Service. Just to be clear, or did you not make changes to the security plan based on the events yesterday?