Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. Senate Republican Whip John Thune Says Congress Can Reach Deal on Ukraine Aid After Sorting Out Government Funding; Ukrainian Presidential Adviser Says Chances of Western Aid to Ukraine Drying Up Are Negligible; Doctors at Walter Reed Say Lloyd Austin Was Treated for Prostate Cancer; Investigators Focusing on Bolts in the Alaska Airlines Boeing 737 Max 9 Aircraft Incident; Tech Firms Unveil Newest Innovations at Annual Conference. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired January 10, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[02:00:29]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and everyone streaming us on CNN Max, I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead, America's top diplomat presses Israel to do more to protect Gaza civilians, as global organizations raise alarms about the Palestinian enclave's crumbling health care system.
 
Ecuador plunges into chaos, armed men storming a television station while cameras roll as officials struggle to contain outbreaks of violence across the country.
 
And Donald Trump's day in court. Why his legal team is arguing the former president can't be prosecuted even if his actions are criminal?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN NEWSROOM WITH ROSEMARY CHURCH.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set for more high stakes talks in the hours ahead when he will meet with Israel's opposition leader and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas.
 
This comes a day after he sat down with top Israeli government officials, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
During his meetings with Netanyahu and the Israeli war Cabinet, Blinken stressed the importance of avoiding further harm to civilians in Gaza and protecting civilian infrastructure.
 
Blinken says Israel has now agreed on a plan to let the United Nations conduct an assessment mission in northern Gaza to determine what needs to be done to allow displaced Palestinians to move back home. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: Palestinian civilians must be able to return home as soon as conditions allow. They must not be pressed to leave Gaza. As I told the Prime Minister, the United States unequivocally rejects any proposals advocating for the resettlement of Palestinians outside of Gaza. And the prime minister reaffirmed to me today that this is not the policy of Israel's government.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Blinken also made clear the Israeli government must move toward a two-state solution if it wants the help of our partners in the region to ensure lasting security.
 
In the hours ahead, Jordan's King is set to hold a summit with Egypt's president and the Palestinian Authority president to discuss developments in Gaza and efforts to push for an immediate ceasefire.
 
CNN's Nic Robertson is following developments and has more now from Tel Aviv.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISAAC HERZOG, PRESIDENT OF ISRAEL: Such a pleasure to have you in Israel.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Meetings.
 
HERZOG: First of all, you are welcome here.
 
ROBERTSON: Back.
 
BLINKEN: Nice to see you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Nice to see you.
 
ROBERTSON: To back -- to back. To pressure Israel to better protect Gaza civilians, saying, some progress made.
 
BLINKEN: We have an agreement that the U.N. will now conduct an assessment to determine the conditions necessary for people to be able to move back home.
 
ROBERTSON: In Gaza, where Israeli officials say the battle tempo easing, the war's effects remain harsh. Nine Israeli troops killed Monday.
 
Dead and wounded Palestinians continue, overwhelming hospitals. And as Blinken urged better humanitarian access, needy Gazans stormed food trucks.
 
From his meetings in the region the past week, Blinken set out a path to peace, which so far has been publicly rejected by Israel's government. BLINKEN: If Israel wants its Arab neighbors to make the tough decisions necessary to help ensure its lasting security, Israeli leaders will have to make hard decisions themselves.
 
Israel must be a partner to Palestinian leaders, who are willing to lead their people and living side by side in peace with Israel.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON: Blinken also saying that Palestinian leaders must reform. A message who said it takes a Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas Wednesday, who appears under increasing pressure to step aside and allow new leadership more palatable to Israel.
 
In essence, Blinken asking both sides to change. No guarantees it will happen.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Tel Aviv, Israel.
 
CHURCH: The World Health Organization is stressing that it can't afford to lose the remaining operational hospitals in Gaza and is warning the enclaves' health care sector is collapsing at a rapid pace.
 <br>[02:05:00]
 
That word, as hospitals continue to report receiving dozens of casualties from heavy fighting and Israeli airstrikes.
 
A WHO emergency medical team coordinator described what he has seen during his missions to hospitals in Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEAN CASEY, WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION EMERGENCY MEDICAL TEAMS COORDINATOR IN GAZA: Emergency departments are still seeing a steady stream of trauma. A steady stream of trauma among children who are playing in the street, among people who are in their homes. So, from our side, it's difficult to see that. We are still seeing -- and I can say this with certainty is a huge number of casualties and a huge number of casualties related to hostilities.
 
So, terrible injuries, gunshot wounds, crush injuries from buildings and the collapse. That's still happening every single day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Israel is set to appear before the International Court of Justice on Thursday after South Africa accused the nation of genocide. In its court filing, South Africa says Israel's war is intended to quote bring about the destruction of a substantial part of the Palestinian national racial and ethnical group.
 
Israel vehemently denies these allegations. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu calling it a false accusation. The U.S. Secretary of State calls the allegations meritless. But Slovenia's Foreign Minister says Israel is breaking the law.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TANJA FAJON, SLOVENIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: What we face in Gaza are violations of international humanitarian law. A violations of humanitarian rights' law. So, that is clear, and it's very worrisome. The situation is catastrophic, getting from work to -- from day to day more catastrophic. And there is no second chance to save Gaza.
 
I would even say that the world has failed on tests of humanity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And the British foreign secretary says he is concerned that Israel may have breached international law.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY: And if you're asking, am only worried that Israel have -- has taken action that might be in breach of international law, because this particular premises has been bombed or -- yes, of course, I'm worried about that.
 
Every day I look at what's happened and ask questions about is this in line with international humanitarian law? Could the Israelis have done better to avoid civilian casualties?
 
Of course, I do that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: One of Israel's best-known actors, Idan Amedi was badly wounded during combat in Gaza on Tuesday, according to his family. Creators of the Netflix series Fauda say a Amedi volunteered to fight from the first day of the war.
 
A spokesperson for the hospital where Amedi is being treated says he is in critical condition in the ICU, but his father is quoted as saying there is no danger to his life.
 
Amedi plays a member of the Israeli Special Forces in the Netflix series.
 
Well, now to the Red Sea, where Houthi fighters in Yemen have launched a new barrage of missiles and drones. American officials say the U.S. Navy shut down 24 of them on Tuesday.
 
According to initial assessments, there were no ships damaged and no injuries. The Iran-backed Houthis have said their attacks target commercial vessels with any sort of link to Israel.
 
But a U.S. naval commander said many of the ships attacked have no connection to Israel whatsoever.
 
Ecuador's president has declared a state of internal armed conflict and authorize the military to neutralize drug gangs behind a wave of bloodshed and violence, which has left the nation in shock.
 
At least eight people were killed Tuesday and two others wounded in Ecuador's largest city Guayaquil. Around 1:00 p.m. local time, more than a dozen armed men stormed a state-owned T.V. station and interrupted a live broadcast. Gunfire could be heard as the armed men force staff to the floor.
 
Police intervened, arresting all 13 of the gunmen and said that all hostages and staff of the network were alive. Explosive material as well as guns and grenades were recovered from the scene. One of the T.V. anchors at the station described the attack as extremely violent.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JORGE RENDON, ANCHOR, T.C. TELEVISION: We heard something we thought it was a fight that was going on outside the studio. But that wasn't the case. The producer told us be careful. They are getting in. They are robbing us. The studio doors are very thick. They wanted to enter the studio so that we could say what they wanted. I guess their message.
 
Then, we settled in a safe place. But when they entered, they asked for us to go live. They insulted us, but we managed to get in a safe place.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The head of the joint command of the Armed Forces says the future of the country is at stake.
 
Ecuador has been shaken by explosions, police kidnappings, and several prison disturbances since Monday when the president declared a 60-day nationwide emergency after a high-profile gang leader escaped from a prison.
 <br>[02:10:10]
 
The spiraling violence is the biggest test yet for the new young president, who won last year's runoff vote with promises to tackle soaring crime.
 
Well, as a result of the violence in Ecuador, neighboring Peru announced on Tuesday night that it will declare an emergency along its northern border region.
 
CNN's Patrick Oppmann has more on the unrest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: As cameras broadcast live, armed gunmen take employees of a T.V. station in Guayaquil, Ecuador hostage. The journalists are threatened and forced to the floor at gunpoint, while viewers watch.
 
The latest scenes of out-of-control gang violence, plaguing the South American nation. Ecuadorian say they are in shock.
 
LUIS ARTURO BELTRAN, WAITER, ECUADOR (through translator): All citizens are afraid. Today, there were attacks in Quito, Cuenca, Quevedo, everywhere.
 
OPPMANN: On Monday, Ecuador's president, Daniel Noboa, declared a state of emergency a day after the government said, notorious gang leader, Adolfo Macias, known as Fito escaped from prison in Guayaquil before his transfer to a maximum-security facility.
 
DANIEL NOBOA, ECUADORIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The time is over for those convicted of drug trafficking and murder tell the government what to do.
 
OPPMANN: The government implemented a curfew and mobilized a manhunt of 3,000 police officers and members of the armed forces to search for the escape gang leader.
 
The gang struck back on Tuesday, raiding the T.V. station, taking police and prison guards hostage, setting off bombs and attacking the university.
 
Ecuador had long been spared the epidemic of violence carried out by drug cartels throughout much of the region. But as a country has increasingly become a key transshipment point for illegal drugs heading to Europe and the U.S. local gangs partnered with cartels have battled each other, and the government for control.
 
In 2023, presidential candidate Fernando Villavicencio was assassinated after naming individuals, he said we're involved in the drug trade.
 
And then the six alleged hitmen arrested for his killing. were apparently murdered in prison as well. Villavicencio's running mate, on Tuesday, called on the country to unite to defeat the gangs.
 
ANDREA GONZALEZ, ECUADORIAN POLITICIAN (voice over): This is the moment that Ecuador stands and leaves behind political terrorism.
 
OPPMANN: The country's president, Noboa on Tuesday, declared several of the gangs, terrorist organizations in order to the armed forces to "neutralize" the violence.
 
Police at the T.V. station said they had arrested 13 alleged gunman and rescued the hostages. As the government declares war though, there is no sign the gangs are backing down.
 
Patrick Oppmann, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Attorneys for Donald Trump facing tough questions from a federal appeals court as they claim the former president can't be prosecuted for trying to overturn the 2020 election.
 
CNN's chief legal affairs correspondent Paula Reid has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Good afternoon -- 
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Former President Trump traveled to Washington, Tuesday to watch arguments in a federal appeals court hearing over whether he should be shielded from criminal prosecution.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I feel that as a president, you have to have immunity. Very simple.
 
REID (voice over): Trump was not required to be in attendance, but was in court to witness the three-judge panel express skepticism of his legal teams claimed that he cannot be prosecuted for his actions, unless he is first impeached and convicted by Congress.
 
FLORENCE PAN, JUDGE, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS: Could a president ordered SEAL Team Six to assassinate a political rival? That's an official act, an order to Seal Team Six.
 
JOHN SAUER, TRUMP ATTORNEY: He would have to be, and would speedily be impeached and convicted before the criminal prosecution.
 
PAN: But if you warrant -- 
 
I asked you a yes, no -- yes or no question.
 
SAUER: There is a political process that have to occur under our infrastructure, our Constitution, which require impeachment and conviction by the Senate and these exceptional cases.
 
REID: Trump's lawyers argued that when trying to overturn the 2020 election, Trump was acting in his official capacity.
 
SAUER: To authorize the prosecution of a president for his official acts, would open a Pandora's Box from which this nation may never recover.
 
REID: Trump's lawyer also warned that if this near absolute immunity was not recognized, there could be a possibility of vindictive prosecutions against political rivals.
 
SAUER: He would authorize, for example, the indictment of President Biden in the Western District of Texas after he leaves office for mismanaging the border, allegedly.
 
REID: The Special Counsel rejected these arguments, noting that charges were brought in this case because of what they describe as extraordinary conduct.
 
JAMES PEARCE, ATTORNEY, SPECIAL COUNCEL: Never before has there been allegations that a sitting president has with private individuals and using the levers of power sought to fundamentally subvert the Democratic Republic and the electoral system. [02:15:08]
 
REID (voice over): And argued that impeachment and conviction through a political process should not be required before a criminal prosecution.
 
PEARCE: I think it would be awfully scary if there weren't some sort of mechanism by which to reach that criminally.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
REID: The court here has been operating on an expedited schedule. So, we expect we will likely get a decision soon, whoever loses can then ask the entire circuit to hear the case. But that requires the majority of judges in the circuit to agree to hear it. It's not clear that will happen. Then, of course, there is the next step, which is appealing to the Supreme Court.
 
And they're already weighing this question of ballot eligibility related to former President Trump. So, unclear they are going to weigh in. But, of course, the Trump strategy is as much about delay, as it is about the merits of this case.
 
Paula Reid, CNN, Washington.
 
CHURCH: For more, we are joined by CNN legal analyst and criminal defense attorney Joey Jackson. Good to have you with us.
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Great to be here. Thank you.
 
CHURCH: So, three appeals court judges appear skeptical of Donald Trump's immunity claim. His lawyers arguing, he should be immune from facing charges for any alleged crimes he committed while in office because he was working in his official capacity as president when he tried to overturn the results of the 2020 election.
 
So, the big question to be answered, is a U.S. president above the law?
 
JACKSON: Yes, I think that's a very difficult argument to make. Right? If you start with the premise that everyone's equal under the law, why should the president be any different?
 
Now, obviously, the president is in extremely powerful position. But I think the argument that Trump's teams making about absolute immunity, right? That's different from qualified immunity. Sometimes, sometimes not.
 
Absolute immunity, essentially, is any act that you engage in as president, nothing to see here. No criminality, cannot be prosecuted. And I think that's something that justices will have a hard time justifying to be accurate, because essentially, what that would mean is that the president could commit a crime of any variety.
 
And as so long as they are, you know, cloaked in the view of the presidency, guess what, you can't be prosecuted for it. So, I think that that argument will not carry today.
 
CHURCH: And Joey, probably the most stunning moment in that courtroom was when one of Trump's lawyers suggested a president can't be prosecuted, even for assassinating political rivals, unless impeached and convicted. What is your legal assessment of that argument?
 
JACKSON: So, that's a problem. Because remember what the lawyer is saying for Trump. What they are saying is that there is an impeachment process, which is political. And then, of course, we have the judicial process, which is more legal in nature.
 
Now, what's the difference? What happens is, is in the United States, you have a Congress that has two different houses, you have the House of Representatives, there are 435 members. Now, in order to impeach the president, you bring forward articles of impeachment, and it goes to that lower House, right? The House of Representatives.
 
They consider the impeachment and if a simple majority vote, guess what, the president is impeached, not so fast. It then goes to the U.S. Senate where there is 100 senators, and if 67, two thirds vote to convict, then, of course, the President is thrown out of office.
 
What Trump's team is arguing is that all of that would have to take place in order for the president to even qualify to be prosecuted. And that simply cannot be the law.
 
To the extent that impeachment is political, and we have a justice department that deals with criminality, there are two separate functions, and you need not go through any procedure relating to impeachment before you get to criminal prosecution. So, again, I just think it's an argument that is a bridge too far.
 
CHURCH: And Joey, it's not clear when the court will reach a decision on this. But once it does, this case, could then go to the Supreme Court, what would be the likely outcome if the justices were to decide this presidential immunity case?
 
JACKSON: Yes, I think it's certainly where it's going. Right? And I think it would be rather quick. Remember, they did that is the core, the three-judge panel with lightning speed even considering this case. But no matter who loses, there will be an appeal, and then, that will go to the United States Supreme Court.
 
You know, there's a lot of people thinking and saying that because you have a majority Conservative court, right? We have nine justices on the U.S. Supreme Court, a majority carries the day and wins. And they are 63 majority.
 
So, hey, they'll protect Trump, they are of the same party, they'll support him. Remember, the supreme court sets precedent for decades to come. This can't just be about Trump. It has to be for presidents yet on born. And so, you have to think about in the legal community the precedent you're setting for the future and could you envision a world where a president can do whatever you want with impunity and get away with it.
 <br>[02:20:10]
 
I just don't think that that's the nature of American democracy. There has to be consequences for actions. Otherwise, the president can do virtually anything and be untouched.
 
And whether you're Democrat, Republican, conservative, liberal, doesn't matter. We have one law, we all have to live under it. And that's why I think the Trump's legal team's argument is just not consistent with constitutional theory and practice.
 
CHURCH: And Joey, Trump is expected to be in court again on Thursday for closing arguments in his New York civil fraud trial. What are you expected to come out of that?
 
JACKSON: Yes. So, the New York civil fraud trial, as we know, he is been, that as the former president very engaged in that matter. He is been attending those court appearances, as it relates to his legacy, as it relates to his business activities in New York, as it relates to an outcome which could be the ending of him doing business in New York.
 
And so, I think that there's an establishment of fraud by the New York State Attorney General, as it relates to his business practices. The judge has made no bones about the fact that there's been fraud. And I think ultimately, you could see an adverse ruling against Trump and potentially his ability to operate any businesses in New York could be impaired, that is his licenses can be revoked. And so, I think that that's a likely outcome in that case.
 
CHURCH: Joey Jackson, always a pleasure to have you with us. Many thanks.
 
JACKSON: The pleasure is mine, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: Still to come, climate experts say 2023 broke more heat records than we originally thought. What it means for the fight against climate change just ahead.
 
Plus, we now know what said U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin to the hospital. Details on his diagnosis, and treatments, that's after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone.
 
Coming off the hottest year on record, the world is now dangerously close to hitting a critical climate threshold set by nearly 200 countries in the 2015 Paris Agreement.
 
CNN's chief climate correspondent Bill Weir has details.
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: 1.48 degrees Celsius that was the amount of global warming in 2023 to one hundredths of a degree away from that pivotal number of 1.5 that the world agreed is should be the upper limits of manmade global warming. But were there. 2023 as a lot of people felt it around the world just was undeniable. Not only did it break previous records, the hottest year ever in 2016 shattered them, obliterated them.
 
Most northern latitudes you can see on the map there up in Canada, there are good three or four degrees of warming.
 <br>[02:25:00]
 
Warming much faster than the rest of the world. So, it is not even.
 
If we look at the global surface temperatures going back, 57 years, it goes back to 1967, my birth year. This is my life in temperature graphs here. And 2023, you can see how that bar on the right is so much higher than anywhere else.
 
Usually, these records are broken by just hundredths of a degree, because you're talking about so much areas, so much math, so much time. But 23 was deadly special in so many ways.
 
And then as we look at the -- through the year, as the temperatures bounced around that 1.5 line there, we dipped above in March, came back down.
 
But as you can see, the temperatures around the world, hit that 1.5 threshold and stayed there for most of the back end of the year, even going above two degrees of global warming for a couple of days in November. That has never happened before.
 
For the first time ever, you can lay 2023's calendar over a calendar of 19 or 18, 50 to 1900, and every day was a full degree warmer than those before.
 
And this doesn't even take into account. The estimated millions of species of plants and animals that could go extinct by 2050.
 
Bill Weir, CNN, New York.
 
CHURCH: Environmental groups are raising concerns over Norway's push to allow deep sea mining between its coast and Greenland.
 
Under the plan approved Tuesday by Norway's Parliament more than 100,000 square miles of Arctic seabed will be opened up for exploration an area larger than the U.K. Supporters say extracting metals and minerals from the ocean floor would help Norway reduced carbon emissions quickly -- more quickly.
 
But scientists are worried about the potential damage to whales and other marine life.
 
Time for short break. When we come back. We will hear from a top adviser to Ukraine's president about more Western military aid and some surprising comments about Vladimir Putin.
 
And days after part of an Alaska Airlines plane broke off during a flight, we're hearing from the head of Boeing. We'll have the latest on the investigation in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:02]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. The number two Republican in the U.S. Senate says he thinks Congress can eventually reach a deal to approve more funding for Ukraine and Israel. But Minority Whip John Thune says it is not likely to happen until lawmakers deal with government funding issues. Many Republicans want military aid to Ukraine and Israel tied to U.S.-Mexico border security. Meanwhile a top adviser to Ukraine's president is expressing optimism that western countries won't leave Ukraine without the help it needs. He spoke with CNN's Fred Pleitgen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MYKHAILO PODOLYAK, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENTIAL ADVISER (through translator): The reality of such a scenario is negligible, less than 1 percent probably. Now on the territory of Ukraine, it is possible to nullify Russia, both in terms of military production and in terms of the army. Why lose or give up the war when you can win?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: How storm do you think Vladimir Putin is and what is his strategy?
 
PODOLYAK (through translator): Western public opinion makes one fundamental mistake about Putin. You create the illusion that he is strong, he is not. And that is what you think, that his strong, but he is weak in fact.
 
War is the only way for Putin to conduct foreign policy, and so war will be ever present in one form or another. He will wage information wars, propaganda wars, terrorist wars, fund terrorism, fund the far right. Either we now stop the endless wars that Putin has been waging since December 1999, or he scales these wars because he has already gone all in. He has no other option but war for war's sake.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Doctors disclosed Tuesday that U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin had surgery to treat prostate cancer back in December. They say his prognosis is good. But questions remain about why it took so long for Austin's staff to notify the White House. CNN's Oren Liebermann reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: There were major questions about the hospitalization of Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, and who knew what, when based on a notification that should have happen. Part of those questions were about the medical condition itself, what was it that Austin went through and what were the complications? Those questions were answered, we will get to that in a second. The other questions were about the notification process that seems to have catastrophically failed. Why is it that Presidential Joe Biden didn't know for three days after Austin himself was hospitalized? Those questions remain open. So what we learned today in an extensive statement from Walter Reed Medical Center where Austin still is at this point, is that Austin was diagnosed with prostate cancer in early December. He then went on December 22nd for what they call a minimally invasive surgery to deal with the prostate cancer.
 
It was caught early. He was under general anesthesia, and he released the next day. It is worth noting it is unclear if anyone knew at this point that he was under general anesthesia, and that is significant because Austin is the Secretary of Defense. Even if his powers were delegated, his responsibilities delegated through his Deputy Secretary of Defense, it is still a significant -- statement of significant happening that Austin himself was under general anesthesia.
 
He then goes home to recover. And on January 1st, doctors say he felt significant discomfort including nausea, pains. He then had abdominal fluids that had to be drained over the course of the next several days. He was moved into the ICU on January 2nd according to Walter Reed, and that is where he began to recover, although he was still in quite bit of discomfort. He was given medications. There was an infection there, that infection has since been cleared according to Walter Reed.
 
He remains at the hospital now. Doctors have said his prostate cancer was detected early and his prognosis is excellent. So that there is certainly the good news for Austin and for his recovery. He assumed full responsibilities on Friday. He has, of course, been carrying those out from the hospital. But then, there is the bigger question on the notification here and how that failed to notify first Biden himself, but other senior national security officials including those in the Pentagon, and for example, Jake Sullivan, the National Security Advisor.
 
The Pentagon says that primary responsibility fell to Kelly Magsamen, Austin's Chief of Staff, but she was sick with the flu according to the Pentagon. What is unclear here is why no one else notified and carried on the responsibility of notifying the president and of others. One also -- one bit of stunning information that also came out today was how few people knew that Austin himself had been diagnosed with cancer.
 
Even though Biden knew on January 4th, three days after Austin was admitted to the hospital that he was there, he did not know until earlier on Tuesday that Austin had been diagnosed with cancer. So, that was held very tightly from the Pentagon, even from others who are at the top levels of the U.S. Government, even the National Security Council acknowledging this should not have been handled this way. Now, the Pentagon promised to put up daily health updates. 
 
Oren Liebermann, CNN, at the Pentagon.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
CHURCH: Boeing CEO is pledging complete transparency as the aircraft manufacturer works with federal investigators to determine what caused an Alaska Airlines fuselage door plug to snap off midflight. He told staff, the company is acknowledging its mistake, even though it is still not clear exactly what went wrong. CNN's Pete Muntean has the latest on the investigation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: Boeing CEO Dave Calhoun says the company is acknowledging its mistake. That in a just released excerpt from the company's all-hands safety meeting on Tuesday. Here is the issue. Calhoun did not say exactly what the mistake is, if anything. And now, investigators are scrambling to get to the bottom of it.
 
MUNTEAN (voice-over): After Friday's dramatic in-flight blowout, significant new findings by investigators and airlines are putting the spotlight on bolts in the Boeing 737 Max 9, designed to hold the part that ripped off in place, known as a door plug. The National Transportation Safety Board now says, it blew out and up, triggering what investigators call a chaotic and loud explosive decompression.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Alaska 1282, we just depressurized and we're declaring an emergency. We do need to descend down to 10,000.
 
MUNTEAN (voice-over): In prepping their planes for FAA mandated inspections, Alaska Airlines and United Airlines both report issues with door plugs on an undisclosed number of now grounded Max 9s. Alaska says mechanics found some loose hardware was visible. United says it found possible door plug installation issues and bolts that needed additional tightening. Now, investigators are searching for the door plug bolts from Friday's incident, potentially key evidence.
 
CLINT CROOKSHANKS, NTSB AEROSPACE ENGINEER: We have not yet recovered the four bolts that restrain it from its vertical movement and we have not yet determined if they existed there.
 
MUNTEAN (voice-over): A Max 9 door plug is secured by high air pressure inside the plane, pushing 12 tabs on the door against matching tabs on the plane's frame. A total four bolts at the top and bottom of the door can be removed for maintenance, but without them, the door could slide out of place.
 
CROOKSHANKS: By design, if the bolts are there, it prevents the door from translating upwards and disengaging from the stuff (ph) fittings and flying off the plane.
 
MUNTEAN (voice-over): Early reads from Alaska 1282's flight data recorder detailed that cockpit alarm sounded, followed by the door plug blowout one minute later.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This was a really significant event. It was terrifying. MUNTEAN (voice-over): The NTSB says it has also reached out to Spirit AeroSystems, that is the Boeing contractor that builds the Max 9 fuselage. Those planes remain grounded until airlines can expect them. Airlines are waiting on inspection details from the FAA. The FAA says it is waiting on details from Boeing.
 
Pete Muntean, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Tech fans are getting a glimpse of all the latest high-price gadgets and gizmos. Still ahead, the biggest names in tech unveiled their newest projects at the Annual Consumer Electronics Show. We'll take a look.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:40:23]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. Well, some of the biggest tech companies are unveiling their newest innovations and a high-price gadgets at this year's Consumer Electronics Show going on now in Las Vegas. Organizers estimate about 60 percent of the Fortune 500 companies will be there, setting the stage for deal making and shaping the biggest tech trends of the year. CNN's Anna Stewart has more from the show room floor.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's one of the biggest trade shows in the world, 130,000 attendees are expected to come here to CES in Las Vegas. They may only see the insides of the conference hall but that is OK because look, thanks to SK Telecom, you can actually see the Las Vegas Sphere inside (inaudible) within the conference center.
 
Now, there have been so many big announcements at CES in the first day, from Nvidia, new chips for PC computers. This is to enable better AI capability. From Honda, the launch of a new series of electric vehicles, the Honda 0 ultra lightweight. It is very space age, it will be available from 2026.
 
And perhaps the most entertaining moment actually from a Sony executive who managed to drive a prototype car partnered with Honda on to a stage using a PlayStation console. Plenty of gimmicks, I hope dearly that is not the future of driving. Sony actually also unveiled a mixed reality headset that is expected to be available later this year, no price tag on that, which brings me perhaps to one of the biggest tech announcements of the week by a company that is not even here. Apple with the vision pro expected now to go on sale with previews (ph) this month, goes on sale February 2 in the U.S., retailing at $3,500.
 
Now, quite aside from all the big announcements, of course, plenty of gadgets and gizmos, robotics and wearable tech, everything has a bit of AI in it, it feels, this year. So, we will be playing with all of. So, check in with us. I'm Anna Stewart at CES in Las Vegas. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Looks like fun. Thank you so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. "World Sport" is up next. Then, I will be back in 15 minutes with more "CNN Newsroom." Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[03:00:00]