Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Assad's Palace Ransacked; U.S. Officials Consider Next Steps for Syria; How the Assad Regime Fell; Jay-Z Fights Back Sexual Assault Allegations. New York City Mayor Eric Adams Holds Briefing After Fatal CEO Shooting; Luigi Mangione Identified As Suspect in UnitedHealthcare CEO Killing; Ousted Syrian Leader Bashar al-Assad Flees to Moscow After Fall of Damascus. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired December 09, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT:  Hello everyone, and welcome to the program, I'm Bianna Golodryga in for my colleague Isa Soares. Tonight, 
 
 moments ago, Mayor Eric Adams began a briefing about the fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson. Let's listen in. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS, NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK STATE:  Good afternoon, and I'm joined here today by our chief of detectives and the police commissioner 
 
 and chief of department because we have a strong person of interest in the shooting that shook our city last week of CEO Brian Thompson of 
 
 UnitedHealthcare was the victim of a senseless act of violence. 
 
Our officers have been working around the clock, many of them are -- did not go home. To pursue this individual, it was crucial that we were able to 
 
 remove him off the streets of America, and we were going to seek him out no matter where he was at the time. And so, this is a strong person of 
 
 interest. 
 
The police commissioner and chief of detectives will go over where we are right now in the investigation. He matches the description of the 
 
 identification we've been looking for. He's also in possession of several items that we believe will connect him to this incident. 
 
How did we do it? Good old-fashioned police work. The chief of detectives and the police commissioner made the decision to release as much of a photo 
 
 that we've -- that we had at the time. We sent it across the country, and someone at McDonald's employee did something we ask every American to do, 
 
 if you see something, say something, but most importantly, do something, and they did. 
 
And because of that, we believe we have a strong person of interest to deal with this case. I want to now turn it over to the police commissioner of 
 
 the city of New York, Commissioner Tisch. 
 
JESSICA TISCH, COMMISSIONER, NYPD:  Thank you mayor. Good afternoon everyone. Earlier this morning in Altoona, Pennsylvania, members of the 
 
 Altoona Police Department arrested Luigi Mangione, a 26-year-old male on firearms charges. At this time, he is believed to be our person of interest 
 
 in the brazen targeted murder of Brian Thompson, CEO of UnitedHealthcare last Wednesday in Midtown Manhattan. 
 
The suspect was in a McDonald's and was recognized by an employee who then called local police. Responding officers questioned the suspect who was 
 
 acting suspiciously and was carrying multiple fraudulent IDs as well as a U.S. passport. Upon further investigation, officers recovered a firearm on 
 
 his person as well as a suppressor, both consistent with the weapon used in the murder. 
 
They also recovered clothing including a mask consistent with those worn by our wanted individual. Also recovered was a fraudulent New Jersey ID, 
 
 matching the ID our suspect used to check into his New York City hostel before the shooting incident. Additionally, officers recovered a 
 
 handwritten document that speaks to both his motivation and mindset.   
 
NYPD detectives are en route to Pennsylvania as we speak, to interview the subject further. This apprehension is thanks to the tireless work of the 
 
 greatest detectives in the world. And of course, the strong relationships we have with our local law enforcement partners on every level, local, 
 
 state and federal. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
We all serve the same public safety mission, and this case, which captured the attention of an entire nation is another example of how connected we 
 
 are and how important it is to work together, share information and pursue every lead. For just over five days, our NYPD investigators combed through 
 
 thousands of hours of video, followed up on hundreds of tips and processed every bit of forensic evidence, DNA, fingerprints, IP addresses and so much 
 
 more to tighten the net. 
 
We deployed drones, K-9 units, and scuba divers. We leveraged the domain awareness system, Argus cameras and conducted aviation canvases. And our 
 
 detectives also went door-to-door interviewing potential witnesses and doing the good old-fashioned police work that our investigators are famous 
 
 for. 
 
This combination of old school detective work and new age technology is what led to this result today. And we must also acknowledge the 
 
 instrumental role the media and the public played in this case. The images that we shared with the public were spread far and wide, and the tips we 
 
 received led to the recovery of crucial evidence. 
 
We should never underestimate the power of the public to be our eyes and our ears in these investigations. This is the third time in three weeks 
 
 that a member of the public has seen something and said something and done something that led to a high profile arrest. The triple-stabbing homicide 
 
 in Manhattan, the gun-point robberies in Queens during which an NYPD officer was shot and now this. 
 
Now, the case will continue through the criminal justice process, and while we are proud of today's accomplishment, we must, of course, remember that a 
 
 family is in mourning. I want to again extend my sympathies to Brian's family, his coworkers and all who knew him. Finally, I want to thank the 
 
 women and men of the NYPD, especially our detective bureau personnel with a strong assist from our Intelligence analysts.   
 
We also thank the SAC of the FBI's criminal investigative division, Leslie Rodrigues Backschies, and I want to commend the staff of the Manhattan DA's 
 
 office, and especially D.A. Alvin Bragg. He has been working with us 24/7 on this case, and I am incredibly grateful for his partnership. I'll now 
 
 pass it along to our great chief of detectives, Joe Kenney, who will provide additional information. Chief. 
 
JOSEPH KENNY, CHIEF OF DETECTIVES, NYPD:  Thank you commissioner. Good afternoon. As the commissioner stated earlier, a man was taken into custody 
 
 today in Altoona, Pennsylvania this morning. He has been identified as Luigi Nicholas Mangione. He is a male, 26 years old, he was born and raised 
 
 in Maryland. We know he has ties to San Francisco, California, and his last known address was Honolulu, Hawaii. 
 
He has no prior arrest history in New York. Members of the NYPD Detective Bureau are currently traveling to Pennsylvania with members of the 
 
 Manhattan District Attorney's office to interview this subject. This case was brought to a successful conclusion based on the coordinated effort 
 
 between numerous NYPD units, including the Intelligence and Counterterrorism Bureau. 
 
Our federal partners at the FBI, the Manhattan District Attorney's Office, and of course, members of the Altoona Police Department in Pennsylvania. On 
 
 Thursday, one day after this crime was committed, the NYPD released a photo of the shooter. In this case, this picture was obtained by the NYPD during 
 
 one of their extensive video canvasses. 
 
We took that photograph and we asked for the public's help in identifying the subject and the public responded. Hundreds of tips began to pour into 
 
 our hotline. Each tip was investigated thoroughly and we began to release additional photographs as they came into our possession. The NYPD provided 
 
 these photos to numerous media outlets, local, national and international outlets released a photo via television, print, social media and online 
 
 content.
 
Luckily, a citizen in Pennsylvania recognized our subject and called local law enforcement. Members of the Altoona Police Department responded to the 
 
 call, and based on their investigation, they notified the NYPD. This investigation is still active and ongoing. Thank you very much. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA:  You've been listening to the New York City chief of police there, and detectives as well as the police commissioner and the mayor of 
 
 New York City, announcing a significant break in the case of the murder of Brian Thompson, the CEO of UnitedHealthcare last Wednesday, announcing that 
 
 a person of interest is in custody. 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
A 26-year-old male by the name of Luigi Mangione was arrested in Pennsylvania in Altoona, Pennsylvania, was spotted at a McDonald's where as 
 
 a suspect there, somebody of interest, by a McDonald's employee who had seen his photograph and alerted authorities. Let's get to CNN's Shimon 
 
 Prokupecz in New York.
 
Shimon, you were at that press briefing and really quite a bit of evidence that police found on this person of interest Luigi Mangione. Just walk us 
 
 through what stood out to you from what you heard just moments ago.
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN CRIME &amp; JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  So, yes, a couple of things. First thing is the ghost gun, the gun that the police are saying 
 
 that they found on him, and that they believe was used in this murder. I think that's a very significant development. It's a gun here that can't be 
 
 traced. 
 
The other significant thing is that the mayor indicated that it may have been -- it was made with possibly a 3D printer, and that is certainly 
 
 something that the NYPD is investigating whether or not he made this himself, whether or not he bought it that way, and that's going to take 
 
 some time. The other thing right now, though they have all of these items they need to directly link it to the crime. 
 
So, that process is underway through forensic evidence. Just to directly -- just to help them bring charges against him. And it's expected he's going 
 
 to face murder charges for what -- for what happened here. The other thing is, it's really fascinating to think about how they captured this 26-year-
 
 old.   
 
He was on busses, he was caught on surveillance video, and the NYPD released a number of photos. One of him not wearing his mask, and several 
 
 with him wearing a mask which made it hard to identify him. And it was an employee at a McDonald's, he -- you know, about four hours away from New 
 
 York City who saw an individual that looked like the person that police said they were looking to question, and that's how they found him and the 
 
 employee called 911. 
 
And the Altoona police responded, took him into custody in just a fascinating way in terms of the importance of NYPD and they're putting out 
 
 these photos. So, they say that was the key in all of this. And they say they have a lot of evidence and that they now need to review fingerprint 
 
 and DNA evidence that could potentially directly link him to this murder. 
 
The other thing obviously, is these writings that police discovered, those are very concerning and troubling. They're also looking into writings that 
 
 were made against anti-corporation, anti-perhaps health care, that's something that they're looking into as well. So, there's a lot more work to 
 
 be done and this investigation is going to stretch out all across the country here in the United States.  
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yes, also notable that he was carrying multiple fraudulent IDs forms of identification, one matching the New Jersey fraudulent ID that the 
 
 suspect used to check into the hostel here in New York City. Shimon Prokupecz, thank you so much. Joining me now to discuss is retired NYPD 
 
 detective and law enforcement and security consultant Tom Verni.  
 
Tom, welcome to the program. And it does appear the real break in this case was the NYPD releasing those images, showing the full face of this suspect, 
 
 now, we can identify as Luigi Mangione, a 26-year-old male, because most of the other images that we had seen of him prior and subsequently is wearing 
 
 a mask. 
 
But the full face images, that's clearly what the employee at McDonald's was provoked by and to the point of calling the authorities. 
 
TOM VERNI, LAW ENFORCEMENT &amp; SECURITY CONSULTANT:  Yes, and that's great, and I'm very happy that someone felt that they were urged to -- you know, 
 
 look -- the police urging the public to -- you know, to -- if they saw something to do something or say something. And that's exactly what this 
 
 person did, and that's what happens every single day across the United States, across any -- really any country that -- you know, when the police 
 
 have a crime that they're trying to investigate, the first set of people they want to appeal to is the public. 
 
Because the public many times is -- are going to be the ones that provide the critical information that they need, whether they saw something, they 
 
 heard something, they observed something or something didn't sit right with them. Yet, over and over and over again, it's been proven that the public 
 
 is integral in providing information which helps the police in their investigations and brings these criminals to justice.  
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yes, and what we heard from the mayor and the police commissioner is just a mountain of evidence that authorities seem to find 
 
 on him that could possibly connect him to the murder of Brian Thompson. As we noted, the fraudulent IDs, one matching or the one that the suspect used 
 
 to check in to that hostel in New York City.   
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
Also, a passport that he'd been carrying, and then a three-page manifesto where he expressed some ill-will towards corporate America. Talk about the 
 
 significance of that manifesto itself in terms of determining a motive. 
 
VERNI:  Well, the other -- the last few days I've been on CNN in New York, and I had mentioned myself and my colleagues had actually pretty much said 
 
 what they're finding out today, in that, you know, there was this debate as to whether or not the suspect was a professional hit-man versus someone 
 
 either a former employee with a grudge or just a general, you know, a citizen with a grudge against the company or the CEO personally.  
 
And I was leaning against, you know, the professional hit-man theory only in the way that the -- the way that this was carried out and the amount of 
 
 evidence that was left behind led me to believe that this was likely not someone who was a, quote, unquote, "professional" -- because a professional 
 
 sort of assassin would have, you know, ghosted in and ghosted out of that scene, and you would have saw very little of them, and they would have made 
 
 sure that their face was not seen anywhere. 
 
So, that led me, you know, more to believe that this was someone who clearly was -- you know, had problems, deranged and certainly was very 
 
 angry and then had access to weapons. And you know, that we see every day here in America, where deranged people with weapons do a lot of damage. 
 
You know, that the fact that they found the manifesto just sort of reinforces the -- you know, the method behind the madness as to why they 
 
 would just go out and single out this person, you know, from this -- from this company. And you know, I never thought that the general public was at 
 
 risk or anyone going to the Hilton Hotel was at risk.
 
I -- you know, it seemed very clear from the beginning that this was a targeted assassination, targeted murder. And so, then we have to figure 
 
 out, OK, well, who is this person? Where are they? And why did they do that? So, now this is all starting to make a lot of sense. And I was also 
 
 trying to urge people to -- you know, to give the police a little bit of time because these investigations are very difficult. 
 
It's not like on TV where they're solved in 43 minutes without commercials, you know, these investigations take days, sometimes weeks, sometimes 
 
 months, sometimes longer. So, the fact that this was actually wrapped up within a few days, to me is actually kind of surprising, given the wide 
 
 area that had to be covered to try to track down this person.  
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yes, suspect was taken in and identified five days after the murder of Brian Thompson this Wednesday will mark one week. You make a 
 
 point of -- 
 
VERNI:  Yes -- 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Not being a threat to the general public, but given his grievances in this manifesto, perhaps a threat to other executives out 
 
 there as his grievance -- 
 
VERNI:  Right -- 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Appear to be with corporate America, we are sure to learn a lot more information as the suspect will be questioned in the hours to come, 
 
 we'll continue to follow this story for our viewers. Tom Verni, thank you so much for joining us.
 
VERNI:  Of course. 
 
GOLODRYGA:  And still to come tonight, a new dawn in Syria. Feelings of celebration mixed with uncertainty after the extraordinary collapse of the 
 
 Assad regime. We'll bring you a report from Damascus. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:20:00]
 
GOLODRYGA:  A new chapter is beginning in Syria where feelings of celebration are mixed with uncertainty following the shocking collapse of 
 
 the Assad regime. A short time ago, we learned Syria's former Prime Minister has agreed to hand over power to his opposition party counterpart. 
 
 Included in that meeting, rebel opposition leader Abu Mohammad al-Jolani, a former al Qaeda fighter.  
 
He calls his group's military victory, quote, "a new chapter in the history of the region." In a CNN exclusive, he spoke with our Jomana Karadsheh.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MOHAMMAD ABU AL-JOLANI, SYRIAN REBEL LEADER:  I believe that everyone in life goes through phases and experiences. And these experiences naturally 
 
 increase a person's awareness. Sometimes, it's essential to adjust to reality, and because someone who rigidly clings to certain ideas and 
 
 principles without flexibility cannot effectively lead societies or navigate complex conflicts like the one happening in Syria.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA:  Joyous Syrians danced in the streets after rebels swiftly took the capital of Damascus, driving out the Assad dictatorship following a 
 
 brutal half-century rule. After the overthrow, a desperate search for thousands of missing Syrians at a prison Amnesty International has dubbed 
 
 the human slaughterhouse. 
 
Teams are looking for secret cells or hidden basement rooms that might be holding additional prisoners. Human rights groups said the Assad regime 
 
 tortured and executed thousands of people at the facility. And Israel says it carried out airstrikes on strategic weapon systems and suspected 
 
 chemical weapons sites in an effort to keep them out of the hands of extremist groups. 
 
While some are celebrating the regime's fall, others are focused on getting what their families need during this uncertain period. CNN's Clarissa Ward 
 
 was on the streets of Damascus. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera):  You could see there are a lot of people out on the streets today. It's not 
 
 scenes of celebration. It's not scenes of looting like we were seeing today, now people are trying to make sure that they have stocked up on all 
 
 the supplies that they might need. 
 
Take a look at this line here. We're outside a bakery, these people say they've been waiting more than half an hour, some of them, they're waiting 
 
 for bread. We've seen lines like this around the city, people are lining up for cash, they're lining up for gas, they are trying to make sure that they 
 
 have enough food to ride out this transitional period where nobody really knows what's going to happen. 
 
Now, you can see behind me at the end of the road there, that is the Central Bank of Syria. Yesterday, there was extensive looting there, a lot 
 
 of people in the city started to feel a little bit concerned that this was going to be a chaotic period. Then more rebels arrived in the capital, the 
 
 looting appears to have stopped, it does seem very calm on the streets. 
 
Of course, there are many people who are elated that Bashar al-Assad is finally gone. But there is also the day-to-day that people need to focus on 
 
 to ensure that they have enough bread, enough gas, enough cash, enough supplies to get them through this tenuous transitional period. Clarissa 
 
 Ward, CNN, Damascus.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)  
 
GOLODRYGA:  Now, the world waits to see what happens next in Syria. Rebels hold control of much of Syria's territory highlighted in green on this map 
 
 as you can see, with the number of groups vying for power, it's unclear exactly what kind of leadership will take over in Syria. But some of the 
 
 regional players are weighing in with reaction.
 
Iran, one of the key backers of Assad says that it will respect Syria's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Meantime, Turkey calls on the 
 
 international community to back the Syrian people.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HAKAN FIDAN, FOREIGN MINISTER, TURKEY (through translator):  We expect international actors, especially the United Nations to reach out to the 
 
 Syrian people and support the establishment of an inclusive administration.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA:  I want to bring in Jeremy Diamond because obviously Israel has a huge stake in this as well as it borders Syria. And we saw the Prime 
 
 Minister actually enter the Golan Heights over the weekend and we've seen for the first time since 1974, where a buffer zone was established. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
That was actually breached following the events over the weekend. Israel also launching strikes as we noted, against chemical weapons facilities and 
 
 sites as well as arms sites as well. Tell us what we just heard from Prime Minister Netanyahu as he addressed the country.     
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Bianna, the Israeli Prime Minister once again took credit for the events in Syria, saying that 
 
 it was Israel's fight against Iran and its proxies, notably Hezbollah and also of course, exchanging blows with Iran that had led to the point where 
 
 the rebels could take down a significantly weakened Assad regime, one that had much less support from Hezbollah and Iran than perhaps it otherwise 
 
 might have.  
 
The Israeli Prime Minister called this a new chapter for the Middle East, and said that Israel has extended a hand of peace to Syria. He even said 
 
 that Israel has taken measures to make sure that Israel is safe vis-a-vis Syria, although he wouldn't say more about that. But it was the suggestion 
 
 of some kind of indirect diplomacy to see whether or not this kind of 50- year detente effectively between Israel and Syria along that border in the Golan Heights, whether or not that can indeed be preserved. 
 
And that is certainly the question at this moment in Israel, as the government and officials and analysts here are, you know, watching very 
 
 closely to see who will actually lead the new government in Syria and what their approach will be to Israel. Because, of course, beyond just the -- 
 
 that strip of land between the Israeli occupied Golan Heights in Syrian territory, there are also of course, concerns about how Syria has been used 
 
 for decades now. 
 
And that is to allow Iranian weapons to flow through Syria into Lebanon into Hezbollah's hands. I was along the border today between Israeli and 
 
 Syrian-held territory. And, you know, you could see that troops had moved into that buffer zone. We actually saw troops that were inside that buffer 
 
 zone, and we're also told that they've actually moved beyond the buffer zone into Syrian territory beyond that buffer zone. 
 
And of course, we also know that Israel has been striking at Syria's chemical weapons, air defense systems and missile capabilities as well. And 
 
 clearly, would appear to be targets of opportunity that the Israeli government is trying to take advantage of in this moment of uncertainty 
 
 inside of Syria. So, a lot of uncertainty, certainly, but also clearly Israel seeing opportunities for the future as well. The question really now 
 
 is who exactly will Israel's neighbors be in Syria, Bianna?  
 
GOLODRYGA:  Jeremy Diamond, thank you so much. Well, Bashar al-Assad and his family are now in Russia after being granted asylum in Moscow. Since 
 
 then, some of the rebel fighters and civilians were seen ransacking his official residence. They also discovered his luxury car collection near his 
 
 main palace. 
 
CNN's Salma Abdelaziz has more on the luxurious lifestyle of the former Syrian dictator. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  You are looking at the extravagant car collection of the now deposed President Bashar al-Assad. A 
 
 red Ferrari, F50 worth at least $3 million, a Lamborghini, a Rolls-Royce, a Bentley among 40 luxury vehicles stored in this warehouse in western 
 
 Damascus, proving to Syrians what they already believed to be true. That while Assad bombed and brutalized his people, his family reveled in vast 
 
 wealth. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Assad -- 
 
ABDELAZIZ:  Inside the presidential palace, more signs of luxury. A massive kitchen equipped with an industrial freezer, a pizza oven and piles of food 
 
 in a country where most go hungry every day. The woman behind the camera reads from what appears to be a draft menu for the former first lady. 
 
The madam's food, she says, she hates spinach, tomorrow, we will make her salmon or Latakia fish. "Vogue Magazine" infamously dubbed Asma al-Assad a 
 
 rose in the desert mere months before her husband used brute and barbaric force to crush a revolt against his dictatorship. 
 
But as rebels swiftly advanced on the capital, the Assads were finally dislodged, fleeing to Moscow where they received asylum. Overjoyed Syrians 
 
 celebrated in the streets and ransacked the regime's residences and offices, taking chairs, plates, clothes, whatever they could carry. "Is 
 
 this stealing?" One person jokes, "no, it's not", another laughs. 
 
Syrians have long accused the generational autocracy of pocketing hundreds of millions from the state, festering corruption was one of the key 
 
 grievances of the 2011 uprising. The Assad family is estimated to be worth $1 to $2 billion.
 
Epic wealth maintained and cultivated while the regime killed, maimed, disappeared, and displaced millions. Syrians were plunged into a living 
 
 nightmare. Some 90 percent of the population lives in poverty, according to the U.N.
 
I came to see what Assad forbade us from seeing, this woman says. We were only allowed to know poverty, deprivation, and suffering.
 
Now, clear for all to see the grandiosity of the presidential palace, the callousness of his reign, and the joy that Assad is finally gone.
 
Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN ANCHOR:  And still to come for us tonight, swiftly moving developments in Syria as a regime has toppled and international 
 
 reactions pour in. We'll hear from U.S. officials in just a moment.
 
Plus, I speak with two experts on where Syria goes next and ask how Syria's frozen conflict flared so quickly to overturn the Assad regime. That 
 
 conversation just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA:  In the wake of the sudden fall of the Assad regime, U.S. President Biden is offering a blueprint for how America plans to support 
 
 the region. In his first public comment since Assad's regime fell, President Biden says that he will speak with his counterparts in the area 
 
 in the coming days and vows to protect U.S. personnel. President Biden also announced that the U.S. had conducted dozens of airstrikes in Syria as it 
 
 remains committed to preventing the resurgence of ISIS.
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
Some Syrian rebel groups are considered terrorist organizations by the United States, but White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan says 
 
 his country is going to work with all of the groups amid this uncertain time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER:  We're going to work with all the groups in Syria. And as President Biden said yesterday, the rebel 
 
 groups, including the ones that have been designated as terrorist groups, have actually said all the right things. Now, the question is, what will 
 
 they do to try to bring about a better Syria?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  This week, Sullivan will travel to Israel to discuss the conflicts in the region. Meanwhile, the White House National Security 
 
 Council spokesperson says it is a, quote, "open question as to who is running Syria." John Kirby spoke to CNN's John Berman earlier today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Who's running Syria this morning?
 
JOHN KIRBY, WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY COMMUNICATIONS ADVISER:  I think that's an open question. Right now, the rebel groups are in charge of 
 
 Damascus again. Yes, HTS sort of was the vanguard here, but they're not the only rebel or opposition group in Damascus as we speak. And I think they're 
 
 trying to work that out amongst themselves. But it is an open question.
 
In fact, the very fact that it's an open question, John, gives us concern. As the president said, we're in a period of uncertainty here. And so, we're 
 
 going to be working through all the process as we can, including at the U.N. to make sure that there's adequate communication with these opposition 
 
 groups and that we are all working together on the -- for the best aspirations of the Syrian people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Jennifer Hansler is at the State Department for us. And, Jennifer, we now know that President Biden spoke a short time ago with King 
 
 Abdullah of Jordan, and we just, moments ago, also heard from Secretary of State Antony Blinken speak on the developments in Syria. What more did he 
 
 say?
 
JENNIFER HANSLER, CNN STATE DEPARTMENT REPORTER:  Well, Biana, we are going to see a flurry of diplomatic activities similar to the president's call 
 
 with the king of Jordan in the coming days, according to Blinken. He said State Department officials are fanning out throughout the region to 
 
 continue to work on this very fast-moving situation coming out of Syria.
 
Now, Blinken said it is in the United States' enduring interest to ensure that Syria moves forward in a stable and prosperous way. He says he wants 
 
 to ensure that there is not a resurgence of ISIS. They want to ensure that there is not a fragmentation within the country, and they also want to 
 
 ensure that there is a government that is representative of the Syrian people.
 
Now, Blinken is also expected to speak with a lot of his counterparts in the region moving forward as they try to grapple with how to move forward. 
 
 And the message we've been hearing across the board from U.S. officials, Bianna, is that this is a moment of opportunity but also of risk and that 
 
 they are going to be talking to everyone, including the rebel groups on the ground, as they try to move forward.
 
Here, they say at the end of the day, the government of Syria needs to be decided by the people there. So, they are going to see how to move that 
 
 process along as they also try to ensure that the security situation is maintained that there is not extremism or terrorism that is expanded beyond 
 
 the borders there. So, there is a lot that we'll have to keep our eye on here coming out of the U.S. government. Jake Sullivan, as you noted, will 
 
 be traveling to the region and we'll see who else possibly will be heading out that way to continue to respond to these developments that we saw these 
 
 really startling and stunning developments over the weekend. Bianna.
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yes, developments which surprised everybody around the world as we watched the lightning speed with which these rebels advanced. Jennifer 
 
 Hansler, thank you so much.
 
For more analysis, joining me now is Colin Clarke. He is the Director of Policy and Research of the Soufan Group and author of the book, "After the 
 
 Caliphate: The Islamic State and the Future of the Terrorist Diaspora." I'm also joined by Fawaz Gerges, a professor at the London School of Economics 
 
 and the author of "What Really Went Wrong: The West and the Failure of Democracy in the Middle East."
 
Welcome, both with -- both of you. Thank you so much. Colin, let me begin with you, because we did hear from Secretary of State Blinken really 
 
 sobering in -- on the one hand, echoing what we heard from President Biden, this is a moment of opportunity, but also stating that he does believe that 
 
 the Islamic State will try to reconstitute amidst all of this chaos. What are your top concerns right now?
 
COLIN CLARKE, DIRECTOR OF POLICY AND RESEARCH, THE SOUFAN GROUP:  Yes, well, thanks for having me, Bianna. He's absolutely right. The 
 
 reconstitution of the Islamic State is one of the top threats when we look at U.S. national interest, right? This is a group that's been biding its 
 
 time in Syria. It's been regenerating its networks and waiting for an opportunity just like this. Although, I think not even ISIS could have 
 
 expected such a gift.
 
I've been spending the last day kind of thinking about winners and losers in this conflict. And with Assad fleeing to Moscow, I think ISIS is right 
 
 at the top of my list of winners. They flourish in anarchy and they're certainly going to make a move to recruit new fighters. That's one of my 
 
 main concerns.
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
GOLODRYGA:  Fawaz, would you agree with Colin's concerns, and what if any lessons learned over the past 10 years can either Turkey, the United 
 
 States, Israel, let's talk about HTS as well take from what we've seen to avoid that reconstitution?
 
FAWAZ GERGES, PROFESSOR, LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL SCIENCE:  Well, I mean, I think Syria faces much bigger challenges than the challenge 
 
 of ISIS. ISIS represents a nuisance. ISIS is -- has been trying to rise up quite for a long time. It has been carrying attacks against Syrian forces, 
 
 against the Kurds, against Iraqi forces. But I think what Syria faces now is the -- a historical opportunity to set up a new government, to deal with 
 
 a broken economy, a process of social healing, deep scars left by a very brutal regime.
 
You have 6 million refugees that -- who need to come home. 8 million displaced people, 80 percent of the Syrian people need humanitarian aid, 
 
 according to the United Nations. And the transitional process, I'm not just concerned about ISIS, I think many Syrians are concerned about their 
 
 future, about what kind of government.
 
How will Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, the most powerful organization within the opposition act? In fact, Abu Mohammad al-Jolani, his name is Ahmed Hussein 
 
 al-Shar'a, is really behaving like the new leader of Syria. He met today with the prime minister.
 
If you ask me -- a minute ago, you were talking to your U.S. correspondent about who is in charge. I can tell you for sure that Abu Mohammad al-Jolani 
 
 is in charge. The fact that he goes and meets with the prime minister in order to really basically transition to a new government, the fact that he 
 
 is on a victory tour. He goes to one of the most -- I mean, one of the greatest mosque in Damascus and address the people.
 
So, yes, ISIS is a major challenge, but there are much bigger challenges. And the next few weeks and next few months we'll see whether the rebels or 
 
 the opposition be able to set up an inclusive, diverse, and a functioning government to address all these challenges.
 
GOLODRYGA:  And of course, Fawaz, al-Jolani and HTS have been garnering the most attention, as you note, for all intents and purposes, he is in charge. 
 
 Is that the view, in your opinion, of other rival faction groups right now? I'm talking about the Syrian National Army, militia, the Syrian Democratic 
 
 Forces. What is their take on the situation right now?
 
GERGES:  Are you asking me, myself?
 
GOLODRYGA:  Fawaz, yes.
 
GERGES:  Are you asking me?
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yes.
 
GERGES:  I think I asked the question earlier on BBC Arabic. I asked a very simple question. Where are the other coalition members of the opposition? 
 
 Why is only Hayat Tahrir al-Sham now seems to be in charge of security? Why is Abu Mohammad al-Jolani seems to be basically telling the Syrian people 
 
 he is a strong man?
 
My fear -- here is my fear. In fact, ISIS is -- I'm not very concerned about ISIS with all due respect. My concern is that Abu Mohammad al-Jolani 
 
 is too powerful for his own good and for Syria's good. My concern is that Hayat Tahrir al-Sham is the most, the best equipped, the best arm, the best 
 
 fed, well led. And at the end of the day, from a cynical point of view, I teach international relations, why would Abu Mohammad al-Jolani, the most 
 
 powerful, and who has more than 10,000 fighters, basically, I mean, share power with other, I mean, opposition factions?
 
It's about power. It's about ambition. And again, what we have learned about Abu Mohammad al-Jolani in the past 20 years, he has shown himself to 
 
 be very cunning, very calculating, very nimble. In fact, he outlasted and outmaneuvered his own mentors, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and Abu Bakr al-
 
 Baghdadi, and even Bashar al-Assad. He sent Bashar al-Assad packing into exiles in Russia.
 
GOLODRYGA:  We have about a month left until the transition into the Trump administration. But as of right now, Colin, we are hearing from President 
 
 Biden's administration, as we heard from the secretary of state, Antony Blinken, saying that the U.S. does have a stake in an interest in Syria. 
 
 Those were not the words exactly that we heard from President-Elect Trump over the weekend.
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
And, in fact, he bluntly said the U.S. should not be involved at all. We have a presence there alongside the Kurdish rebels. What do you think, what 
 
 should be the approach and the policy of the incoming administration as it relates to Syria?
 
CLARKE:  Well, it's always hard to predict what President-Elect Trump may or may not do even going based on, you know, his first administration. I 
 
 think, you know, if you look at Afghanistan, August 2021, as a template and the U.S. withdrawal there, that's something that Trump talks openly that 
 
 the Biden administration shouldn't have withdrawn troops, even though the policy of withdrawing was really a continuation of the Doha agreement 
 
 started under Trump.
 
That said, I think you can see the damage of even removing a small number of troops from Afghanistan, I think 2,500 at the time, 900 troops now in 
 
 Syria. I think for the time being, and for the foreseeable future, those troops need to remain. And as Dan Byman wrote in The New York Times this 
 
 morning, may even have to expand so the United States can keep track of what's going on, human intelligence, counterterrorism issues.
 
And to go back just briefly to what Fawaz was talking about before, I answered the question of what's the biggest U.S. concern? It was the 
 
 Islamic State. He then spoke about ISIS not being a concern for Syria. I think the two are connected. If Syria is not able to get its government 
 
 together, that's going to give room to Islamic State to grow. So, these are all interconnected issues here. It's a very complex situation.
 
GOLODRYGA:  Yes, we should just note HTS, their military leadership in a statement today on Telegram, said that rebel forces were, quote, "About to 
 
 finish controlling the capital and preserving public property and that a new government would begin work immediately after being formed." It did not 
 
 specify as to who would be leading that government, to your point, Fawaz Gerges.
 
Gentlemen, we'll have to leave it there. Colin Clarke, Fawaz Gerges, thank you so much for the time.
 
CLARKE:  Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA:  And still to come for us tonight, rapper Jay-Z is fighting back against sexual assault allegations filed against him. We'll tell you the 
 
 unusual legal demand he just made.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Rapper Jay-Z is denying sexual assault accusations against him and is demanding his accuser's identity be made public. Shawn Carter, 
 
 better known as Jay-Z, has filed a motion to reveal his accuser's identity or have the lawsuit against him dismissed. An unidentified woman is suing 
 
 Jay-Z, saying that he and Sean Diddy Combs raped her at a party in 2000 and that she was 13 years old at the time. Elizabeth Wagmeister has more.
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT:  Jay-Z has been revealed as one of the mystery celebrities that was mentioned in one of the 
 
 civil suits against Sean Diddy Combs. This suit was originally filed back in October. In which a woman who says that she was then a 13-year-old girl 
 
 in the year 2000 said that she was raped by Sean Combs and also another anonymous male celebrity.
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
Now, that case has been amended to actually name Jay-Z in the suit. Jay-Z has come out swinging, denying these claims in a lengthy statement, which 
 
 is very rare coming from Jay-Z, who is an incredibly private star. I obtained this statement from his team last night, and he wrote this 
 
 himself. I want to read you part of it. He says, these allegations are so heinous in nature that I implore you to file a criminal complaint, not a 
 
 civil one. Whomever would commit such a crime against a minor should be locked away. Would you not agree? He goes on to say that these alleged 
 
 victims would deserve real justice if that were the case.
 
Now, that part of the statement is actually directed towards the plaintiff's attorney, whose name is Tony Buzbee. Jay-Z is saying that he is 
 
 being extorted and he is being blackmailed by Buzbee, who he says was just trying to settle privately to get money.
 
Now, I reached out to Buzbee and he has denied these extortion claims ever since Jay-Z sued him back in November claiming extortion. Now, last night, 
 
 Buzbee told me, the pleading speaks for itself. This is a very serious matter that will be litigated in court.
 
Now, much more to come on this matter, but I have also reached out to a representative for Beyonce, of course, Jay-Z's wife. No comment there yet, 
 
 but in his statement where he denied these sexual assault allegations from a then-minor, Jay-Z did say that he is heartbroken for his family and said 
 
 that he and his wife, of course, Beyonce, are going to have to talk to their kids who are now going to see these allegations in the press. Back to 
 
 you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA:  Our thanks to Elizabeth Wagmeister for that report. Meantime in Manhattan, a jury has found that a former Marine not guilty of criminally 
 
 negligent homicide in the death of Jordan Neely. Last year on a New York City subway, Daniel Penny grabbed Neely from behind, putting him in a 
 
 chokehold, and held him there for several minutes after Neely began acting erratically.
 
Neely, who struggled with mental illness and drugs, later died. Penny claimed he was acting to protect others from a threat. Just moments ago, 
 
 Neely's father, who was present in the courtroom, spoke on the pain he feels in reaction to today's verdict.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDRE ZACHARY, JORDAN NEELY'S FATHER:  It hurts. Really, really hurts. What are we going to do, people? What's going to happen to us now? I've had 
 
 enough of this. The system is rigged.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA:  On Friday, the judge dismissed a more serious second-degree murder charge after jurors twice said that they could not reach a verdict.
 
Well, still to come tonight for us, Golden Globe nominations have been announced. We'll tell you who's leading.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
GOLODRYGA:  What truly is the end of an era for pop star Taylor Swift. Grammy award-winning singer wrapped up her heiress tour Sunday night in 
 
 Vancouver, Canada. The tour had become a global phenomenon. Fans trading bracelets, camped in advance, and even singing along outside of venues when 
 
 they couldn't get in.
 
Swift thanked her fans for creating a, quote, "space of joy and togetherness and love." At each show, Swift performed 44 of her songs 
 
 spanning her 18-year career. The tour even spawned a movie version. It's estimated that the Eras Tour will gross over $2 billion. Wow. Amazing run.
 
Well, thanks so much for watching tonight. Stay with CNN. Newsroom with Jim Sciutto is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:00:00]
 
END