Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: U.S. Gives Israel 30 Days to Boost Humanitarian Aid in Gaza; Israel Continues Assault in Gaza; Early Voting Begins in Georgia; Harris Sits Down with Charlamagne Tha God in Detroit; Giant Pandas Arrives in Washington, D.C.; North Korea Blows Roads and Railway Links with the South; Boeing Seeks to Raise $25B; Taiwan Condemns China's Latest War Games; Using Smartphones and Laptops to Vote. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 15, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
CHARLAMAGNE THA GOD, HOST:  -- middle class, but I would love to hear more about stair stepping from poverty into middle class so they can take 
 
 advantage of the opportunities and the policies you're talking about.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  Yes. No, that's right. That's right, and that's real. So, for 
 
 example, the child tax credit. When we did it, when I first became vice president, we cut black child poverty by half. And you know, when you deal 
 
 with poverty for a child, that's -- 
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  It's 6:00 a.m. in Taipei, 7:00 a.m. in Seoul, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome once again to "First Move." And here's today's need to know. The U.S. gives Israel 30 days to boost humanitarian aid access to 
 
 Gaza or face restricted military aid. Bow wow. Chinese giant pandas Bao Li and Qing Bao arrive in Washington, D.C. after their long trip from China. 
 
 Burned bridges. North Korea blows up road and railway links with the South. And K-drama delight. Korean TV captivating audiences around the world. We 
 
 go behind the scenes to help explain why. All that and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, the Biden administration is demanding Israel do more to improve the dire humanitarian situation in Gaza or risk military aid restrictions. 
 
 The warnings coming in a letter from the U.S. secretaries of both state and defense who say the amount of aid into Gaza has dropped by more than half 
 
 since the spring. They're giving Israel 30 days to start letting at least 350 aid trucks into Gaza every day and to start implementing humanitarian 
 
 pauses in the fighting to allow for vaccinations and that aid to be distributed.
 
And Israel continues its assault on Gaza. It's facing its own crisis with Hezbollah. The group's de facto leader is warning Israelis they must choose 
 
 between a ceasefire or, quote, "pain." (INAUDIBLE) said without a truce, Israelis will be in danger at any hour of any day.
 
CNN has gotten a rare look behind the frontlines of Israel's fight against Hezbollah in Lebanon, embedding with the Israel Defense Forces. Our 
 
 Jerusalem Correspondent Jeremy Diamond and photographer Byron Blunt were under IDF escort at all times, but CNN did retain editorial control over 
 
 the final report and did not submit footage to the IDF for review.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In the ruins of this Southern Lebanese village, amid flattened buildings, crumpled cars and 
 
 mounds of rubble, there are also Israeli soldiers.
 
Two weeks into their ground operation, they now control multiple villages like this one. But for how long and how much deeper into Lebanon will they 
 
 go?
 
Israeli Humvees now slice straight through the border into the rocky terrain of Southern Lebanon.
 
DIAMOND:  Nearly two weeks ago, Israeli ground troops came in here in the first major Israeli ground operation in nearly two decades. And they're now 
 
 taking us to see one of their positions. inside Lebanon.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Arriving on the ground, it's immediately clear this village is now firmly in Israeli hands. Supplies are being brought in. 
 
 Tanks are parked in a courtyard and troops have settled into homes where Lebanese civilians once lived.
 
DIAMOND:  So, we're about two miles inside of Southern Lebanon and you can see the destruction around us that's been wrought by this ground operation, 
 
 also by Israeli strikes over the course of the last year. And what we're also seeing is that this is a clear Israeli position that has been 
 
 established with artillery fire now firing off in the distance.
 
And it's interesting because the Israeli military, of course, is describing all of these as limited targeted raids. But we are also seeing, of course, 
 
 that they have established positions inside of Southern Lebanon for an offensive that they insist is not going to go much deeper.
 
This is an established Israeli military position inside of Southern Lebanon. How is this a raid?
 
COL. ROY RUSSO, ISRAELI DEFENSE FORCES:  Well, as you can see and as you walk by, those outposts that we're right now holding are temporary. There's 
 
 no outpost designed, built, and operated by the IDF. These are tactical, temporary, time limited.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Colonel Roy Russo, the Chief of Staff of the 91st Division, says his orders are to clear the area closest to the border and 
 
 nothing more.
 
RUSSO:  There's no objective that was designed to us to go into Beirut or Dahiyeh or something like that. No, we need to limit the threat at the 
 
 tactical range that enables Hezbollah to pose a threat on the communities
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Deeper inside this former Hezbollah stronghold, Colonel Russo and his troops show us what they say that threat looks like.
 
COL. YANIV MALKA, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES:  You can see here anti-tank missiles. You can see rockets. You can see brand-new AK-47.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Multiple stashes of weapons which the Israeli military says Hezbollah planned to use in attacks on Northern Israeli 
 
 communities. A claim CNN cannot independently verify.
 
Israeli troops are now fighting to clear other villages like this one to remove what they say is a key part of the Hezbollah threat that has 
 
 displaced some 60,000 residents of Northern Israel.
 
Soldiers here say Hezbollah has shown itself to be a tough, well-trained enemy, carrying out tactical ambushes that have already killed 10 Israeli 
 
 troops.
 
Israel's war in Lebanon already stretches far beyond the battlefield of these border communities. More than 2,300 people have been killed in 
 
 Israeli strikes across Lebanon, including several hundred women and children, according to the Lebanese health ministry.
 
And more than a million people have fled their homes as Israel intensifies its attacks. Ordering residents of a quarter of Lebanon's territory to 
 
 evacuate.
 
DIAMOND:  And that is an enormous cost for this kind of ground operation, the kind of strikes that you guys are conducting.
 
RUSSO:  Right. I think the responsibility is on Hezbollah. I think if they haven't launched an attack on October 8th, we wouldn't be here.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  As the cost continues to mount for Lebanon's civilians, Colonel Russo says he believes the Israeli ground operation will 
 
 be counted in weeks, not months.
 
But a smoke rises beyond the tree line, a reminder that this war is far from over.
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, inside Southern Lebanon with the Israeli military.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, back here in the United States, only three weeks remain until the presidential election. Early voting is already underway in 
 
 Georgia, the battleground shattering its own record. Back in 2020, 136,000 people cast their ballots on day one. As of an hour ago, the state counted 
 
 more than 250,000.
 
The race continues to be neck-and-neck in several swing states as the candidates fight for every last vote. Vice President Kamala Harris reaching 
 
 out to voters on a talk radio show, sitting down with an interview in Detroit with the host Charlamagne Tha God. His program, "The Breakfast 
 
 Club," is popular among black Americans.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  And by voting in this election, you have two choices -- or you 
 
 don't vote. But you have two choices if you do. And it's two very different visions for our nation. One mind that is about taking us forward and 
 
 progress and investing in the American people, investing in their ambitions, dealing with their challenges. And the other, Donald Trump, is 
 
 about taking us backward.
 
CHARLAMAGNE THE GOD, HOST, THE BREAKFAST CLUB:  The other is about fascism. Why can't we just say it?
 
HARRIS:  Yes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, meanwhile, Former President Donald Trump took questions from Bloomberg's chief editor at the Economic Club of Chicago earlier. He 
 
 promised to implement some of the highest tariffs in history to protect the U.S. auto industry.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Thank you. What am I going to do, negotiate with Mexico or China? You're 
 
 not going to get anything from that.
 
I said I'm going to put a 100, 200, or 300. I'm going to put the highest tariff in history. Meaning, I'm going to stop them from ever selling a car 
 
 into the United States.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. For more on all of this, we're joined by Stephen Collinson. Stephen, great to have you with us. Our regular viewers would 
 
 know we spoke to pollster Frank Luntz yesterday and he said, look, for the last three weeks, Trump needs to stop talking, period. And Kamala Harris 
 
 needs to speak to niche outlets and mainstream media avoiders, basically. And she's certainly doing that today, and it feels like she's sort of 
 
 taking the fight to Trump now and criticizing him directly.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  Yes, she's certainly sharpened her message in the last few days. She had not really stressed the 
 
 whole issue of democracy and the threat that Trump supposedly poses to it.
 
Trump gave her an opening over the weekend by saying that he might use the military against the enemies from within. That has really brought the issue 
 
 of Trump's temperament and autocratic instincts right back to the fore of this campaign.
 
What Harris is trying to do, she's trying to, as you say, talk to niche audiences. She's talking today, for example, she's targeting black male 
 
 voters who are normally a Democratic constituency, but where Trump has been able to make some inroads. And when you're talking about states like 
 
 Georgia Michigan, for example, that could be decided by, say, 5,000 or 10,000 votes in three weeks' time, every single vote you can, A, get out to 
 
 vote for you and prevent from going to Trump is very, very important. So, that's her tactic here.
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's also an attempt, in certain cases, to win over Republicans that perhaps don't like the former president's behavior, but 
 
 they are then forced to make a decision that they have to cross party lines if they want to vote for a Democratic candidate. Fox News.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
COLLINSON:  Right. And she's going to go on Fox News tomorrow. This will be her first formal interview on a network which has very conservative 
 
 commentators, at least in the evening, and has clearly been trying to, you know, boost Trump for months during this campaign.
 
I think what she's trying to show is that she now, after having been criticized by Trump for months for avoiding unscripted encounters, is 
 
 prepared to go wherever she can find the votes. And that's the message she's trying to send to Republican voters.
 
As you say, there are some of them who are disdainful of Trump. They're worried about his temperament. In the primaries, we saw in many states, 
 
 about 20 percent of voters voting for Nikki Haley, the former governor of South Carolina, who is running against Trump, and saying that he was unfit 
 
 to govern.
 
If she can get some of those voters, and she's been having the help of former Rep. Liz Cheney in this quest, she could, again, build up a few more 
 
 voters that could be key in these closed states. So, she's really casting her net wide now. And this comes in the context of some panic among 
 
 Democrats that she's not pulled out a bigger lead over Trump with only three weeks to go.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, you said in another great op-ed that you wrote this week, she's trying to convince a disgruntled electorate that she's the 
 
 change candidate, having said in that -- The View interview that she did that she couldn't think of anything that comes to mind that she would 
 
 change about the last four years, the problem is she's against someone who basically has no limits in what he's willing to say. It's sort of, how do 
 
 you fight that? How do you best fight that?
 
COLLINSON:  It's very hard. And I think we saw that play out today in that event he did with the Chicago Economic Club. You saw a picture of Trump 
 
 who's incorrigible, he's impervious to fact, he's steeped in conspiracy theories.
 
When John Micklethwait, the editor of Bloomberg, spoke to him about the effect of tariffs, which would raise prices on ordinary Americans, he 
 
 completely disagreed. He told Micklethwait, basically, you're wrong on this, and you'd be wrong on everything for your whole life. If you are a 
 
 mainstream journalist asking him these questions, it's very difficult. But what that event also showed was Trump's compelling appeal to many 
 
 Americans.
 
Micklethwait is, you know, representative of a class of elite journalists, you know, classic economic journalist who presumably support the financial 
 
 system as it is, but that's a financial system that many heartland Americans feel has really left them behind.
 
Trump is showing the -- in that event, the appeal of his populism. It doesn't really matter to mere Americans if his ideas make much economic 
 
 sense, he is acting as a vessel for people's unhappiness and frustration and resentment and it showed exactly why he's going to get millions of 
 
 votes, tens of millions of votes on November the 5th.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and as a business journalist and economist, I'll put my hands up. We do get it wrong. We can be wrong, quite frankly.
 
COLLINSON:  Never.
 
CHATTERLEY:  You know, there's an authenticity, fact or fiction, to just calling people out and saying what you think whether it's right or wrong. 
 
 And I think that goes to your point, whether you like it or not, it's there.
 
Very quickly, one percentage point basically between them in the majority of the swing states now, Stephen, and there is alarm, I think, on the 
 
 Democrat side, about, to your point, why we haven't seen Kamala Harris pull ahead. Do you think this is her losing momentum or do you think, to the 
 
 point we're just making, it's actually him gaining or both?
 
COLLINSON:  I think it's probably where the country is. We've seen so many disruptions in this race. Assassination attempts, a president pulling out a 
 
 few months before the election, a new candidate having to try and find her feet.
 
If you asked most people at the beginning of this year what the election would look like three weeks out, I think most people who watch this would 
 
 say it's going to be very close. And the reason for that is it was very close in 2020. It was very close in 2016. Hillary Clinton lost two swing 
 
 states that could have given her the election by about 10,000 votes, Michigan and Wisconsin.
 
The country is deeply split. There is a lot of anger at the political system. And there is no one, at the moment, who seems to be able to build a 
 
 sustainable majority in American politics.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. I'm a Brit, so I can say this, is it that the country's so split, or is it the candidates that they're getting to choose from, 
 
 quite frankly? Yes. Stephen, great to have you with us, as always. Pleasure to get your wisdom. Stephen Collinson, thank you.
 
All right. Now, Washington is a draw for visitors from all around the world, but two guests arriving from China received an extra special 
 
 welcome. Jetting in from the southern part of the country, two three-year- old panda bears heading to the Smithsonian National Zoo. Bao Li and Qing Bao are on loan and will spend the next 10 years in the United States, if 
 
 all goes to plan.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
It's a renewal of the Panda diplomacy, which dates back decades, but comes amid recent tensions, of course, between the two nations. Now, David Culver 
 
 joins us now, where he was granted special access to conservation efforts, which involved disguising himself as a panda.
 
David, I've already watched your report and I absolutely loved it. There was a beautiful moment where you said, you know, do I look like one? And 
 
 someone enthusiastically said, yes, to you, and I was like, someone's lying to you. But they are so important there. They are so important.
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  I know, a very generous colleague of ours.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Culturally so important though.
 
CULVER:  Yes, it really is. You know, and it's interesting, you mentioned the geopolitical tensions, and you and I have talked for years now, Julia, 
 
 and when I was living here and reporting on the back and forth between the U.S. and China, this is one of those rare bright spots, though, and you see 
 
 that now, through all the geopolitical back and forth, panda diplomacy can actually push through, and it's been going 50 years strong and then some.
 
But to be here on this side, to get this very rare access, we're the only foreign media granted the ability to watch the sendoff ceremony. It was 
 
 really stunning just to see all the logistics that go into it, the many people behind this effort, and ultimately, the sendoff in of itself, which 
 
 is massive to do, and leaves a lot of folks here feeling somewhat bittersweet, but knowing eventually, these pandas are going to come back 
 
 here.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CULVER:  They're saying, Bao Li, Qing Bao, have a safe trip. You are getting a very rare look at the panda sendoff Here in China. I've never 
 
 been this close to a panda, but there she is.
 
A few hours earlier, a private farewell for the three-year-old panda pair and a ceremonial transfer of care from China to the U.S.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  We got here a few days ahead of the sendoff.
 
We made it. It's a long journey.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  Traveling to Chengdu and meeting up with panda keepers from the Smithsonian's National Zoo.
 
CULVER:  Thanks for making time. I know you guys are busy, Mario, Trish.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  We catch them just outside the panda quarantine zone.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This was what I worked for, and it feels so surreal.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  The majestic mountains of Sichuan Province are the natural habitat for these beloved creatures.
 
CULVER:  Chances of us actually seeing one out here, we're told are quite slim.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  We're granted access to a reserve that tourists aren't allowed, joining researchers from the Smithsonian who specialize in 
 
 panda rewilding, or efforts to reintroduce them to their natural habitat.
 
MELISSA SONGER, CONSERVATION BIOLOGIST, SMITHSONIAN'S NATIONAL ZOO:  Part of the reason for putting them in an area like this and keeping them away 
 
 from people is so that they're not acclimatized to people. You wouldn't want to release a panda and have them approach a village, for example.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  We're told we can meet some of the forest panda trackers, but first, we need to suit up.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I think that one should fit you.
 
CULVER:  All right. Let's try it.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  A panda suit, just in case we stumble across a panda cub.
 
CULVER:  They don't want humans to become part of their everyday routine. So, it's for that reason that we're suiting up to look like them.
 
Does it look like a panda?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes. You're not only putting on just the suit by itself, you're also going to put panda's urine and poop on. So, you will 
 
 have the scent.
 
CULVER:  Has that been on this suit before? This is for distance.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is clean. It's been cleaned. So, if they sense on the signal that a cub is nearby, they're going to put on a hood and just 
 
 go into hiding.
 
CULVER:  The hood goes on.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  Conservation efforts like these are funded in part by the Panda Exchange Program.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Our two guys, they came over 20 years ago -- 
 
CULVER (voice-over):  Zoos like the Smithsonian's pay a million dollars a year to host a pair of giant pandas, adding to the pressure.
 
BRANDLE SMITH, DIRECTOR, SMITHSONIAN'S NATIONAL ZOO:  Just imagine everything we do, the entire world is watching, and there's no margin for 
 
 error.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  Especially given how beloved pandas are in places like Chengdu. The creatures are larger than life here. And their most loyal 
 
 fans stand hours in line to catch a glimpse of their favorite ones.
 
CULVER:  You can see, look, everybody gets super excited. They've already got their position.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  And there are even panda influencers like A'Qiu, who post content from his bedroom.
 
CULVER:  So, you're into pandas?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Actually, sorry, before we start, can we just move one big panda to that one there?
 
CULVER (voice-over):  Which doubles as a studio.
 
CULVER:  Why do you love them so much?
 
A'QIU, PANDA INFLUENCER:  Cutes. So, cute.
 
CULVER:  The pandas that go part of the exchange program from here in China to the U.S. What do you make of that?
 
A'QIU (through translator):  This is an agreement between China and the U.S. And because I love my country, and I love pandas, I support it.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CULVER (voice-over):  The Panda Exchange, or Panda Diplomacy, dates back to 1972, President Nixon's historic visit sparking China to send pandas to the 
 
 U.S. and now to many other countries.
 
Months of planning to pull off this transfer. And in Washington, renovations to make sure Bao Li and Qing Bao's new home is just right.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We've done some tree trimming in here also, because we know they're going to climb. They love to climb.
 
CULVER (voice-over):  The zoo's been advertising pandas are coming. And now, they've arrived.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CULVER (on camera):  OK. So, there they are now in the U.S., closer to where you are, Julia. They are going to be in quarantine for about a month 
 
 or so. Then there'll be some adjustment period. They'll debut to the public in the U.S. January 24th. And yes, dressing up as a panda at first, I 
 
 thought that was some sort of prank that I was being set up for by our colleagues here, only to realize it is actually a serious part of 
 
 conservation, and it wasn't just me who had to put on this suit. I'm looking off camera here. Tom Booth (ph), had to put his on. Evelio 
 
 Contreras, our photographer as well, had to wear his. They were very serious about it.
 
The only one, Justin Robertson, happened to be getting beauty shots and time lapses, he tells me at the time. So, he was unavailable for that tour.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I hope you have a group photo of that experience.
 
CULVER:  We do. We got lots of them.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, fantastic. There's photographic evidence. David, great job. Because beyond the joy of the pandas themselves, I think you really 
 
 helped tell the story of the cultural significance of this and why diplomacy and the use of these pandas is so important and what it means to 
 
 the Chinese people too. And I think perhaps the joy of it gets, that part gets lost. Great job as always. David, thank you.
 
CULVER:  Thanks, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. North Korea done building bridges. Instead, it wants to blow up roads apparently. This was the scene hours ago. Pyongyang 
 
 used explosives to demolish two major routes into South Korea.
 
It was mainly a symbolic gesture because the road and railway links haven't been used for years. It follows threats of retaliation from Kim government 
 
 last week. It accuses the South of flying propaganda filled drones over Pyongyang. Mike Valerio has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, dramatic video shows the moment that North Korea demolished two road and railways routes that used to link 
 
 the two Koreas.
 
So, let's go to the video. And on the right-hand side of the screen, you can see a blue sign that says goodbye to drivers from South Korea. And 
 
 then, we see the explosion. A cloud of debris blown into the sky. North Korea demolished this roadway and another one on the other side of the 
 
 country. Two of the last remaining road and railways linking the two countries.
 
This video is certainly compelling, but what does it all mean? Well, it's certainly a physical reminder that a policy of peaceful reunification may 
 
 be a thing of the past. In January, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said peaceful reunification should no longer be pursued, and monuments like this 
 
 one, the Arch of Reunification in North Korea's capital, have presumably been blown up. Kim Jong-un said he was going to do it, and it no longer 
 
 appears in satellite imagery.
 
So, this is also a movie we've seen before. In 2010, North Korea was upset about leaflets sent by balloon from South Korea, balloons like these, and 
 
 the leaflets describe what life is like in the free world. A version of that balloon drama is still happening today.
 
So, back in 2020, to retaliate, North Korea blew up this building near the border, which was supposed to be a cooperation office between North and 
 
 South Korea.
 
So, bottom line, tensions have been much worse before. South Korea has actually had islands shelled by North Korea and a battleship also sunk by 
 
 North Korea that happened back in 2010. Tensions now are nowhere near that point. The two roadways that were demolished in this most recent episode, 
 
 well, they haven't been used for years. And when South Korea retaliated, its gunfire stayed in South Korean territory. It did not reach the North.
 
Mike Valerio, CNN, Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, thanks to Mike there. Now, straight ahead on "First Move," amid financial and worker led woes, Boeing goes to the banks and 
 
 Wall Street to help keep flying. We'll take a look at the playmakers multibillion dollar plan to restructure.
 
And later in the show, if you can do your banking on a phone, why not your voting too? Venture capitalist Bradley Tusk joins to explore new ways to 
 
 choose our leaders that don't rely on polls and paper, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And a very good morning if you're waking up with us too. In today's Money Move, a magic Monday turning 
 
 into a turbulent Tuesday for risk assets. I'll explain why.
 
First, oil trading at near two-week lows as fears eased of a possible retaliatory attack by Israel on Iranian oil facilities. The International 
 
 Energy Agency also predicting an oil surplus next year, which is also helping to contain prices.
 
Energy shares fell along with the price of oil. And U.S. stocks also closed lower. Chip makers were actually the biggest drag on the NASDAQ, with the 
 
 chip maker ASML losing 16 percent after warning about sales in China in particular, and that then dragged other chip makers with it.
 
Plus, the living la NVIDIA loca rally ending abruptly. You see what we did there? Closing down nearly 5 percent. There were also reports that the 
 
 Biden administration is considering capping A.I. chip exports too.
 
Meanwhile, luxury giant LVMH also taking a tumble with a fall in third quarter sales amid weakening demand in both China and in Japan.
 
And speaking of which, there was a mixed close in Asia with disappointing September trade data from China sending the Hang Seng and Shanghai 
 
 Composite lower. We'll see what trade Wednesday brings.
 
Now, Boeing is trying to shore up massive financial losses from a crippling strike and a catalog of operational and safety issues. Well, it's now going 
 
 cap in hand to Wall Street and the banks to raise $25 billion by selling stock and debt. And it's announced plans to borrow $10 billion ahead of a 
 
 new round of layoffs too.
 
The company's debt levels surging to new heights over the last six years. It's currently settled with core operating losses of $33 billion. Vanessa 
 
 Yurkevich has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Julia, this is a cash strapped company that needs to get out of debt and end this strike 
 
 soon. Both, of course, easier said than done.
 
Today, in a regulatory filing, Boeing said it plans to borrow $10 billion from banks, as well as raise another $15 billion by selling stock and debt. 
 
 This is just the latest in what has been a brutal week for Boeing.
 
Last Tuesday, talks broke off between Boeing and the IAM union, with the local president there telling me that they are very far apart on several 
 
 issues. Now, 33,000 union members have been on strike for more than a month, with one estimate suggesting that Boeing, workers, customers, and 
 
 the local economy have lost $5 billion.
 
And on Friday, a double whammy. A judge did not accept or reject a guilty plea deal for two fatal 737 MAX crashes in which Boeing agreed to pay 
 
 hundreds of millions of dollars. But victims' families asked for $25 billion and this now leaves the door open for Boeing to be on the hook for 
 
 more money. That same day, the company announced they would be laying off 10 percent or 17,000 employees.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
And on Monday, acting secretary of labor, Julie Su, visited with Boeing and the union separately. The union says she spent time with the union 
 
 president and the bargaining team to understand what exactly the roadblocks were, and Julie Su is someone that has had success with several labor 
 
 negotiations, including getting the West Coast dock workers to come to a deal before the strike last year and helping the UAW and automakers along 
 
 in their talks and helping to end the East and Gulf Coast port strike.
 
Now, the administration has been in touch with both sides, however, an in- person meeting is significant. Julia.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Vanessa there. Now, in the northern hemisphere, winter is already promising to be appreciably different from last year. And 
 
 that, remember, was the warmest on record. 2023 was dominated by an El Nino weather pattern, which prevented many heavy snow events and even caused a 
 
 snow drought in parts of the United States.
 
Well, this year, it could be La Nina's turn. The cooler counterpart. The Climate Prediction Center, says it could roll in by the end of November and 
 
 stick around until as late as spring of 2025. Let's find out more with Chad Myers. Does that mean more snow, Chad?
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes. I don't think we can get less than eight inches for New York City. That's just -- that's a pretty low number. 
 
 We've set the bar pretty low there. The normal in New York should be 30 inches. So, 750 millimeters, and we weren't even close.
 
So, what's happened here? Well, El Nino is when the water here across parts of the equatorial Pacific here, South America, is warmer than normal. The 
 
 opposite, La Nina is when it's cooler than normal. And that's, I think, where we're going. I don't know how far we're going to get there, or is it 
 
 going to be a strong one or a weak one, but when they happen, they deflect the jet stream to the north. And then all of a sudden, it comes back down 
 
 across British Columbia into the Pacific Northwest and then into the Great Lakes.
 
That changes the weather pattern in North America, making a wetter pattern in the northwest. They'll take it because it's been dry. Even forest fires. 
 
 We could take a little bit of rain in the reservoirs as well. Cooler across the north, which is the exact opposite that has happened in the El Nino and 
 
 then warm but fairly wet here in the cross parts of the Great Lakes.
 
Now, warm doesn't mean 40. Warm may mean 31, especially if you should be 26. So, many times those 31-degree snowfalls can be even heavier if you see 
 
 that moist and warm, if you're supposed to be well below freezing, then you're right closer to freezing, then you get the heavy wet snow. So, 
 
 that's kind of what we're hoping for. At least some of us. The kids are for sure. The drivers probably not so much.
 
Dry across the upper Midwest to the Great Lakes and warmer across it. That's what we were. Here's where we were across parts of the winter of 
 
 last year. Cool, but not cold enough and not snowy enough to really make any difference.
 
Here's what the forecast is going to look like coming out on Thursday, a fairly above normal winter here and a below normal winter across the 
 
 Pacific Northwest. And then, again, here is the rainfall that's coming through the Great Lakes all the way up toward the northeast. If you get 
 
 that warmer and wetter right -- in the right place, then, all of a sudden, you do get more snow.
 
Now, across the globe things are not as impressive of a change when it comes to La Nina, but it will be cool across parts of West Africa, maybe 
 
 wet a little bit as well here and then drier through China and then cooler up to the word of the north, but not as significant of a change as the 
 
 places across parts of North America, because that's where that La Nina truly moves the jet stream.
 
Sure, it kind of slows down a little bit and it kind of waves and it changes a little bit east of there, but not as much as where we're probably 
 
 going to see some significantly cool and very wet weather across the Pacific Northwest. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Did you say kids or big kids? Because I'm like raising my hand at this moment, quietly hoping.
 
MYERS:  I grew up in a very snowy place and I am not a fan of cold or snow.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. OK. OK.
 
MYERS:  I've had my share.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Enough in the U.K., sorry. Chad, thank you. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. More than 800 people kicked out of the 
 
 U.S. military under Don't Ask, Don't Tell have now been given honorable discharges. The policy prohibited openly gay, lesbian, and bisexual service 
 
 members. Congress repealed it more than a decade ago. However, it took until just last year for the Pentagon to proactively review the discharge 
 
 cases.
 
And Nepali teenager got a hero's welcome home after becoming the youngest person ever to summit all 14 of the world's 8,000-meter peaks. 18-year-old 
 
 Nima Rinji Sherpa started his quest just two years ago. He's now one of only 40 people who've done it. But Nima says the achievement isn't just for 
 
 him, it's a tribute to all of Nepal's Sherpas.
 
And Taiwan is condemning China's latest round of war games after Beijing reportedly flew a record number of fighter jets and other warplanes around 
 
 the island as part of its large-scale military drills. The one-day exercise included Chinese drones and Coast Guard vessels and stimulated -- simulated 
 
 a blockade of Taiwan, a self-governing island China views as part of its territory. Our Will Ripley is in Taipei and has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Even though these drills were widely seen as less provocative than some previous drills in 
 
 the years since Nancy Pelosi's controversial visit to Taiwan triggered massive military exercises encircling Taiwan, including a ballistic missile 
 
 flying over this island, we didn't have a missile this time around, but what Taiwan's defense ministry is saying is that there is a new record for 
 
 the number of Chinese warplanes recorded near Taiwan in about 24-hour period -- 25 hours, actually, if we're being technical here.
 
153 military aircraft around Taiwan in 25 hours, with 111 of them crossing into Taiwan's self-declared air defense identification zone. No Chinese 
 
 planes enter Taiwan's sovereign airspace. That's technically 12 nautical miles from shore. So, that is good news, one might say.
 
But this does surpass the previous record of 103 aircraft detected near Taiwan, that was in September of last year. And what this shows is that 
 
 essentially Beijing continues to push the envelope in terms of the number of aircraft, the regularity of these military drills. Some of these planes 
 
 that were recorded were actually after China announced the end of Operation Joint Sword-2024B. Remember, they held another round of exercises near 
 
 Taiwan earlier this year in May, right after Taiwan's presidential inauguration.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
This time around, they held them a few days after Taiwan's National Day celebrations, where the president of Taiwan, Lai Ching-te, gave a speech 
 
 where he predictably, and some might say in relatively muted language, rejected Beijing's long standing territorial claims over Taiwan.
 
But even though analysts feel he really did try to walk a fine line taking a cue from his predecessor sighing when in trying to deliberately not 
 
 provoke Beijing with his rhetoric. Nonetheless, the military drills commenced as was expected. Taiwan predictably also responded with air 
 
 patrols, navy vessels, and missile systems.
 
There were also 14 Chinese naval ships detected, but none of those actually entered Taiwan's contiguous zone, which is 24 nautical miles from shore. 
 
 That would have been a major escalation in and of itself.
 
So, the Joint Sword-2024B drills are now in the history books with a new record for the number of war planes and China not ruling out future 
 
 military activity near Taiwan as they see fit. Again, they've been accused by a lot of analysts of trying to make this the new normal of engaging in 
 
 so much military activity around Taiwan that people become desensitized to it and forget the fact that these are real-life maneuvers being practiced 
 
 today, but they could be put into real use tomorrow.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Will there. Now, coming up, getting people to vote in local elections is a struggle in some U.S. states. But what if 
 
 voting were a little easier? One venture capitalist believes phoning it in could be the answer. We'll explain, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." There's only a few short weeks until the U.S. presidential elections. Voting is a civic duty, but for 
 
 many, it's also a chore. Now, one organization is asking, could technology help voters skip those lines? Mobile voting is an initiative being 
 
 pioneered from Tusk Philanthropies. Their goal, a future where we all have the option to vote via our phones.
 
Voters would verify their identities in the same way they would in person. Tusk argues it would boost voter turnout, potentially having a moderating 
 
 effect. on our politics. However, critics also raise all sorts of questions over potential security issues among others.
 
Bradley Tusk is the CEO and founder of Tusk Holdings. He's also the author of a new book, "Vote with Your Phone." You can see it there. "Why Mobile 
 
 Voting is our Final Shot at Saving Democracy." Bradley, great to have you with us.
 
At the core of your thesis, I think in the book, as I mentioned there, the more people vote, the more special interests and extremes are diluted, and 
 
 that should be better for us all.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
BRADLEY TUSK, FOUNDER AND CEO, TUSK HOLDINGS AND AUTHOR, "VOTE WITH YOUR PHONE":  Yes, I mean, American politics, I think everyone watching this, 
 
 well knows has a tremendous polarization problem where the extremes control everything. All we see is fighting and dysfunction and nothing can get 
 
 done.
 
And effectively, when you live in a world where primary turnout, which is usually what most elections actually decided, is 10 to 15 percent, that's -
 
 - who is that, the far-left, the far-right, or a bunch of big special interests? And they decide both who wins office and then what they get to 
 
 do when they're in office. So, of course we're in the mess that we're in.
 
And if voting were, you know, significantly more participated in, if we were at 30 percent instead of 10 percent, then by definition, everything 
 
 moves to the middle.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I want to get practical very quickly. But firstly, that the point of the book and, as I mentioned in the title, our final shot at 
 
 saving democracy, where do you see us headed without some big thinking solutions like this, for example, to make voting easier?
 
TUSK:  Yes. I mean, as horrible as this sounds, I'm not sure we're one country in 25 years without some sort of way to fix this massive amount of 
 
 dysfunction and polarization and anger and hatred. I think mobile voting is the most scalable, efficient way to do it. Maybe somebody else has some 
 
 other idea that we haven't heard of yet. But if we do nothing, the path that we're on is untenable and it's not going to end well.
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. So, let's start with a local election first. New York's a great example of how few people vote and make decisions for everybody else. 
 
 You download the app because it's app based, then what? And talk about the verifications, because the criticisms I've seen you face in numerous 
 
 interviews since the book came out is security.
 
TUSK:  Sure. So, yes, pretty simple. So, if we use New York as the example, you would download the New York City Board of Elections app. They would 
 
 verify that you are a registered voter in New York. Then they have that defined that you're really you. So, the first thing is multifactor 
 
 authentication.
 
So, you get an e-mail sent to you, like you would, if you forgot your Hulu password or Amazon or whatever it is, you enter the code back into the app. 
 
 Then they use biometric screening to determine that you really are you. So, in the way that like clear works at airports, same thing here. Once that is 
 
 determined, the ballot pops up on your screen. It looks like any kind of simple internet ballot, but because it's digital, we no longer have the 
 
 risk of straight pencil marks or under voting or over voting, or if you're ever back in 2000 hanging chads.
 
You go through, you make all of your selections once you've decided, OK, I've got this right, you hit submit and two things happen. The first thing 
 
 is the ballot is immediately encrypted. The second is you get a tracking number, like if it were a FedEx package. And you can track the progress of 
 
 your ballot all the way through the process. It then goes back to the New York City Board of Elections. And the first thing they do is the air gap 
 
 the ballot, which means they take it off of the internet. And after it's no more connected to the internet, then they decrypt it.
 
A paper ballot is -- a copy of automatically printed out. It gets mixed in with all the other ballots from mail-in and in-person and whatever other 
 
 ways people are voting, you're able to track the progress all the way through. So, you can see that your ballot was submitted, received, printed, 
 
 tabulated, so on. And because all of the code itself is open source, it can be checked and audited and verified by any cryptographer or anyone that 
 
 knows it.
 
So, we think we have built a system that really takes every security question into account. And quite frankly, it's a lot more secure than the 
 
 way we vote it right now.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and that was going to be my next question, because if you're talking end-to-end encryption, verifiable multifactor 
 
 authentication, and being able to get a receipt so you can track your vote, I think that's very important.
 
How do you convince people? Bradley, how do you convince politicians? And who does this benefit if we're asking sort of Democrats or Republicans? 
 
 Who's going to be the most resistant to this?
 
TUSK:  So, when you say people, there's two different things. So, it's how do you convince regular people? And what I have found is, you know, we've 
 
 done a bunch of polling on this, usually about 75 percent of people, especially Democrats and independents, which we'll get into your next 
 
 question, say if it's secure, we should absolutely do it. And I think the way that we convince them is that we show them that it works.
 
So, my plan is to start running legislation in some cities around the U.S. next year, where we get the authorization that people in those cities can 
 
 vote on their phone in school board races, city council races. You don't have to start really big, and let's see how that goes. And if it works, we 
 
 can scale up from there. So, I think we show regular people, which is by proving that it works.
 
For politicians, like you said, it's going to be trickier because if you have power and you're in power, you don't want to make it easier for 
 
 someone to take that power away from you. On the other hand, if you're an American politician these days, your job kind of stinks because you are 
 
 completely controlled by that handful of special interests and ideologues who actually show up and vote your primary. And you don't really have the 
 
 freedom to do your job the way you'd want to do it. And so, on one hand, I think they'll find it's very appealing. On the other hand, some of them 
 
 will also find it threatening.
 
And you know, it's going to take building a movement. The reason that I wrote this book is to really start that process of making people aware that 
 
 this is a feasible solution and they're going to need to stand up and demand it.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
And if you think about every major movement in American history, whether it's the women's right to vote or the Civil Rights Act or the Voting Rights 
 
 Act or the Americans with Disabilities Act or same sex marriage or anything else, the status quo never wanted to provide those rights to people. And in 
 
 every case, people stood up, they demanded it, they were insistent on it, and they eventually got it and won. That's what we're going to have to do 
 
 here, too.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, Bradley, I've got more questions, including whether the Iranians, the Chinese, the Russians could potentially sort of tap into 
 
 these phones and corrupt it, because that's going to be the next question, but I've run out of time. You're going to come back on that one, and we're 
 
 going to continue this discussion.
 
TUSK:  OK. I'll come back any time you want. Thank you for having me.
 
CHATTERLEY:  You got it, my friend. Thank you.
 
TUSK:  All right. See you, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, and here's the book, by the way. Yes, it's good. Bradley Tusk, CEO of Tusk Holdings there, thank you. We're back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  As many of you know, Korean TV shows are having a moment like never before. CNN has been given a rare peek behind the scenes of the new 
 
 series, "Family by Choice." Just one of many new shows winning over audiences in South Korea and far beyond. Mike Valerio has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  In this beautiful sun splash cafe outside of Seoul, the scene is set.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One, two, action.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  Our CNN team granted rare, exclusive access to what this production crew hopes will be South Korea's next hit show. It's just a 
 
 taste of the new Korean drama "Family by Choice," where childhood friends form their own chosen family. And a reunion 10 years later leads to 
 
 romance.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hi, CNN.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  It could be the friendliest set I've ever seen. Director Kim Seung-ho telling us laughter is encouraged to offset the 
 
 scripted drama. And from behind the curtain lead actor, Hwang In-you, takes a quick break to talk to us.
 
HWANG IN-YOUP, ACTOR, "FAMILY BY CHOICE" (through translator):  It's a drama about healing each other's trauma, recovering from it, and finding 
 
 happiness in the end. This can be a little spoiler, but from the moment we get back together, the romantic side of the story becomes the main part as 
 
 the story gets more serious.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  And things are getting more serious for Korean shows worldwide. "Squid Game" Season 2 returns in December, and Netflix says 
 
 Korean shows and movies are its most viewed non-English titles, ahead of Spanish and Japanese, according to Netflix data from the second half of 
 
 2023.
 
YUN KI-YUN, CEO, SLL:  I never even imagined that Korean dramas, having a language barrier, can be pervasive to the global market.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  Yun Ki-yun is the CEO of SLL, the studio behind "Family by Choice," as well as the Korean thrillers "Hellbound" and "All of 
 
 Us Are Dead," both on Netflix. He says it's the delicate emotional storytelling that often makes Korean shows so popular with global 
 
 audiences.
 
And adds K-pop music led to an even bigger fascination with Korean series and movies.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
KI-YUN:  Thanks to the PSY, BTS, and Blackpink, they raised curiosity from the K-pop fandom.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  The industry across South Korea hopes we'll see more Korean shows on more streaming platforms. Yun hopes his new series, "The 
 
 Good Boy," about athletes turned police officers, will be a hit on Amazon and lead to stronger ties with the platform.
 
"Family by Choice" is out now across South Korea, and Hwang says he's up for the challenge to make this show an international hit.
 
IN-YOUP (through translator):  It's unbelievable, and I am grateful for all the love and interest. Now, I'm left with my homework or challenge to make 
 
 the content more exciting and living up to expectation.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  Mike Valerio, CNN, Yeoju, South Korea.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And finally, on "First Move," a scary encounter for police officers in Ohio there. Dash cam recording this giant blow up pumpkin on 
 
 the loose. The Halloween decoration had separated from its moorings, making a brief bid for freedom. Initial attempts to apprehend the errant 
 
 inflatable led to this officer being, well, swallowed whole.
 
Luckily, he was unharmed, but the pumpkin made its mark on the police cruiser next. A two-man tackle proved more successful, recapturing the 
 
 fleeing fruit and returning it to its rightful owner. You know what? I'd pay to have a go at tackling that. I love it.
 
And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. We'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END