Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: More Trump Picks Announced; Stephen Miller Expected to be Deputy Chief of Staff; Lee Zeldin Picked to Lead EPA; Trump Picks Tom Chief Homan as "Border Czar"; Israeli Minister Pushes for West Bank Annexation; Passenger Plane Hit by Gunfire Over Haiti; Asian Exporters Awaiting Details of Trump's Tariff Policy; Kremlin Denies Putin and Trump Held Call on Ukraine; Climate Leaders Meet in Azerbaijan; Japan Prime Minister Ishiba Survives Parliament Vote; Misogyny on the Rise in U.S.; Trump Asked Rep. Mike Waltz to be His National Security Adviser; New Storms Set to Batter Philippines; Forged Art Uncovered in Italy. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired November 11, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  -- much more, check it out at ebay.com/hfot, Homes for Our Troops. ebay.com/hfot. The auctions open for the next 10 
 
 days.
 
You can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, Threads, X, formerly known as Twitter, and on the TikTok, @jaketapper. You can follow the show on X, 
 
 @TheLeadCNN.
 
The news continues on CNN with Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  It is 8:00 a.m. in Tokyo, 10:00 a.m. in Sydney, and 6:00 p.m. here in Atlanta. I'm Lynda Kinkade in for 
 
 Julia Chatterley. And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
A warm welcome to "First Move." Here is today's need to know. Trump's team, the president-elect, announces new picks for the top jobs, including two 
 
 immigration hardliners. Under fire, a plane hit by gunfire over Haiti, leaving a flight attendant injured and bullet holes in the cabin. We'll 
 
 have the latest in a live report. Fakes found in astonishing discovery of a huge network of forged artwork in Italy. And misogyny misery. The My Body, 
 
 My Choice movement hijacked by men and used to attack women. We'll look at how South Korea is responding to similar abuse. That conversation and much 
 
 more, coming up.
 
But first, the Trump transition team continues to fill key roles in the upcoming administration. The president-elect is expected to announce 
 
 Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser, as White House deputy chief of staff for policy. Vice President-Elect J. D. Vance calling it, another 
 
 fantastic pick. Former New York Congressman Lee Zeldin has been picked to the administrator of Environmental Protection Agency. Zeldin says, quote, 
 
 "We will restore U.S. energy dominance."
 
This after Trump said he's chosen Tom Homan, as his borders czar to oversee mass deportations of undocumented immigrants. Homan served as the acting 
 
 director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the previous Trump White House. And the president-elect has picked New York Congresswoman Elise 
 
 Stefanik to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. She is a longtime Trump ally.
 
Well for more, Stephen Collinson joins us now from D.C. Good to see you, Stephen. So, Trump loyalists certainly filling up Trump's wish list. We did 
 
 see Trump's pick or a suggestion for his pick for Deputy Chief of Staff Stephen Miller. I just want to play some sound from Stephen Miller about 
 
 what he said about immigrants.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHEN MILLER, TRUMP'S EXPECTED PICK FOR DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR POLICY:  America is for Americans and Americans only.
 
You have two policy objectives that you proceed with utter determination on, seal the border and no illegals in. Everyone here goes out. That's very 
 
 straightforward. You would establish a large-scale staging grounds for removal flight So, you grab illegal immigrants and then you move them to 
 
 the staging grounds and that's what the planes are waiting for federal law enforcement to then move those illegals home. You deputize the National 
 
 Guard to carry out immigration enforcement.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  And of course, Donald Trump's pick for the border czar, someone who would oversee the border, is Tom Homan. This is what Tom had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TOM HOMAN, TRUMP'S PICK FOR "BORDER CZAR":  Some of these Democratic governors say they're going to stand in the way, they're going to make it 
 
 hard for us.
 
If sanctuary cities don't want to help us, then get the hell out of the way because we're coming.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  We are coming. So, given Donald Trump's strong mandate here after the election, how soon could we actually see this mass deportation?
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  Well, they say it will happen as soon as possible after January the 20th at noon when Trump is 
 
 sworn in. There are ways that they can ramp up deportations. They say what they're going to do is go after criminals in the United States first. That 
 
 is a position that many Americans would agree with.
 
The complication comes when you get further down the list. If the administration will start deporting people who are perhaps undocumented 
 
 laborers in factories, will they go from neighborhood to neighborhood trying to find undocumented migrants and thereby, potentially infringe the 
 
 civil rights of a lot of other people?
 
So, while Trump has been as good as his promise. He's appointed hardliners on immigration, some of the most far-right immigration officials we will 
 
 have ever seen in modern American history, there are still very big questions about whether the future president has the stomach to follow this 
 
 through to his logical conclusion, deporting perhaps 10 million migrants because of the political impact that would cause. Lynda.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
KINKADE:  Yes. 10 million, maybe more. Of course, right now, the world's biggest climate conference is underway COP29. And we've just heard about 
 
 Trump's pick for the person that would overseas the environment, Lee Zeldin. This is someone who will roll back key climate regulation. And he 
 
 has a pretty dismal environmental record, right?
 
COLLINSON:  That's right. Pretty much every time when he was a member of Congress for a district in New York that an environmental legislation came 
 
 up under the Democratic led House, Zeldin voted against it. This includes regulations on issues to try and make carbon less damaging to the 
 
 environment, prohibitions on toxic chemicals, that kind of thing. He's very much in line with the hardline conservative orthodoxy that there should 
 
 really be no attempts to flight -- fight climate change.
 
He said in the statement that accompanied his nomination that from day one, Trump would drill baby drill, basically open up vast ways of the United 
 
 States to oil drilling to make America, again, the world's most prominent energy power.
 
So, as the COP conference begins in Azerbaijan, this is really casting appall over global efforts to fight climate change, not just because the 
 
 United States plans to pull out of the Paris Agreement in the Trump administration, it raises the question of why should other nations take 
 
 steps to flight climate change that are economically punitive, in many ways, if one of the biggest polluters, the United States doesn't.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Much more on Trump's picks in the coming days. Stephen Collinson for us, thanks so much.
 
COLLINSON:  Thanks.
 
KINKADE:  Well, as Donald Trump heads back to Washington, his wife Melania is expected to skip a meeting at the White House this week with First Lady 
 
 Jill Biden. Sources say Mrs. Trump has a scheduling conflict related to the release of her memoir. She was invited to the White House along with her 
 
 husband to discuss the transition from one administration to the next.
 
Well, days after Trump's victory, Israel's far-right finance minister, who also holds a role regarding settlers, says he has ordered preparations for 
 
 the annexation of West Bank settlements.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEZALEL SMOTRICH, ISRAELI FINANCE MINISTER (through translator):  The year 2025 will be, God willing, the year of sovereignty in Judea and Samaria. I 
 
 have instructed the Settlement Division in the ministry of defense and the civil administration to begin professional and comprehensive work to 
 
 prepare the necessary infrastructure for applying sovereignty. I also intend, God willing, to lead a government decision that will establish the 
 
 government of Israel will work with the new administration of President Trump and the International Community to apply sovereignty and achieve 
 
 American and international recognition.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, the Palestinian Authority calling these comments, quote, "colonial and racist." Israel has occupied the West Bank since seizing the 
 
 territory from Jordan in 1967. In the decades since, it has expanded Jewish settlements in the area. Jeremy Diamond has more from Tel Aviv on the 
 
 finance minister's comments.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  He is a settler himself. As you mentioned, he is one of the most right-wing members of this current 
 
 government, which is the most right-wing government in history. And he sees an opportunity in the wake of Donald Trump's election, what he's calling an 
 
 important opportunity to annex these Israeli settlements in the West Bank. And so, he's directing these government entities that he oversees to begin 
 
 making preparations for that possibility.
 
And he also says that he believes he said he has quote, "no doubt," actually, that he believes that President Trump, once he comes into office, 
 
 will support Israel in this initiative. And he certainly has reason for that. Belief, and that is because in 2020, when Donald Trump put out his 
 
 peace plan at the time, it did indeed call for Israeli settlements to be annexed into Israeli territory in addition to creating a future Palestinian 
 
 State that did not include some 30 percent of the occupied West Bank.
 
Now, that doesn't mean that Donald Trump is actually going to go ahead and support annexation, certainly not right at the beginning of his term. Now, 
 
 in terms of the Israeli prime minister himself, you know, he had the opportunity following that 2020 plan to actually move forward with 
 
 annexation. He chose not to at the time. And so far, we haven't heard from the Israeli prime minister directly on this matter.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Our thanks to Jeremy Diamond there. Well, a Spirit Airlines plane flying over Port-au-Prince, Haiti, has been hit by gunfire. That's 
 
 according to a diplomatic source in the country. The video on social media shows what appears to be bullet holes near a door and the overhead lockers.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
The airline tells CNN that a flight attendant has reported minor injuries. Stefano Pozzebon is tracking the events from Colombia and joins us now 
 
 live. So, certainly across Haiti, violence has been increasing. What can you tell us about this incident?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST:  Yes, Lynda. It's a crisis that really showing no sign of resolution. And frankly, today, we have seen only the 
 
 latest example of it, this plane, that on Monday morning, was targeted by gunfire as it was approaching landing in the International Airport of Port-
 
 au-Prince.
 
The incident did not escalate and that is just a remarkable event that only one person was reporting light injuries, and the airplane was safely 
 
 diverted towards the Dominican Republic. But footage that we at CNN have verified and photos from inside the plane show bullet holes, both in the 
 
 main body of the aircraft, as well as in the main cabin where all the passengers were staying. And you can imagine the terrifying scenes that 
 
 both the crew and the passengers would have gone through by seeing their vehicle, their aircraft targeted by gunfire.
 
It's not a -- this has happened before, Lynda. Just last month a helicopter by the United Nations was also targeted by gunfire as it was flying over 
 
 Port-au-Prince. And the same happened to vehicles owned and operated by the United States embassy in the streets of Port-au-Prince. It shows the 
 
 decline situation, the security situation in the Caribbean nation is just getting worse and worse.
 
We learned just in the last hour, Lynda, that all operations at this international airport in Port-au-Prince are currently halted as a result of 
 
 this incident. But it's no coincidence that just on Monday, a new prime minister was sworn in after a tense institutional clash between the 
 
 previous prime minister and the transitional presidential power.
 
There is a power vacuum in the country. There is a multinational force in the country led by Kenyan police that is struggling to keep the criminal 
 
 gangs at bay, and the situation seems only to get worse. And now, well, we know that once the airport in Port-au-Prince shuts down the capital is 
 
 pretty much cut off from the rest of the country because of the control that these international gangs operate in the countryside off the nation.
 
So, a very worrisome situation. Just 100, 150 kilometers away from Miami. Very, very close to the U.S. shore, of course. So, a situation that we're 
 
 monitoring very closely. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  OK. Good to have you across this situation for us. Stefano Pozzebon in Bogota, thank you very much.
 
I want to turn to China now, where huge numbers of university students have been taking night time bike rides to Kaifeng. It's an ancient city known 
 
 for its historic sites and soup dumplings. Initially, the government had encouraged the trend to promote local tourism, but now it says the 
 
 situation has gotten out of hand. Senior International Correspondent Will Ripley reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Pedaling under the glow of streetlights, tens of thousands of Chinese students on a 
 
 40-mile impromptu adventure from Zhengzhou to the ancient City of Kaifeng, students have been biking here for months, most joining for the thrill, 
 
 some for the popular and juicy jumbo soup dumplings. Others just letting off steam under the intense pressure of finding a job. China's economy is 
 
 spiraling. Youth unemployment is skyrocketing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  We wanted to take the challenge of riding a shared bike to Kaifeng City. We're only young once.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Some riders carry Chinese flags. Others sing the national anthem. State media even released this viral video, students 
 
 chanting about their passion. Then came the crackdown. Authorities closed key bike lanes this weekend, citing safety and traffic concerns. Bike 
 
 sharing companies issued warnings. Some colleges restricted students from leaving campus. All temporary measures, police say.
 
Authorities insist the situation became unmanageable. Traffic disruptions from abandoned shared bikes, massive youth gatherings, all of it happening 
 
 in China. An authoritarian state led by a party that itself came to power with the help of mass movements, often led by students.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
From Tiananmen Square in 1989 to the COVID lockdown protests of 2022, large, organized student gatherings rattle the ruling party's nerves, even 
 
 if participants insist they are not political. It also happened in Shanghai, the site of huge Halloween celebrations last year. This year, 
 
 heavy crowd control, police escorting away plenty of people in Halloween costumes. One of the most conspicuous, President Donald Trump.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, straight ahead, Trump and trade. Asian exporters awaiting details of the president-elect's new tariff policies. We'll speak to the 
 
 chairman of Indonesia's Chamber of Commerce about how his country is preparing.
 
Plus, attends climate at the COP29 climate conference. The U.S. says the battle against global warming will continue, even under Trump.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Another record-breaking day for U.S. stocks, topping today's Money Move. The post-election rally on Wall 
 
 Street continuing, with the Dow closing above the 44,000 milestone for the first time. Tech stocks finished mostly flat. But Tesla hit a fresh 52-week 
 
 high up -- almost 9 percent it's a market cap now firmly above the $1 trillion mark. Bitcoin rising to fresh records topping $87,000 per Bitcoin. 
 
 And investors are hoping that Donald Trump's administration will mean less crypto regulation.
 
It was a mixed day in Asia, modest gains for the Shanghai Composite, but weakness for the Hang Seng. Investors disappointed with China's new 
 
 stimulus measures, which were announced late Friday.
 
Well, U.S. President-Elect Donald Trump's threat to hike tariffs on U.S. imports has the potential to upend global trade, particularly in Asia. 
 
 Trump has proposed 10 to 20 percent blanket tariffs across the board on goods coming into the U.S., as well as higher tariffs on Chinese goods 
 
 ranging from between 60 and 100 percent.
 
One country watching all this closely is Indonesia, which sends substantially more goods to the U.S. than it imports. Data from the U.S. 
 
 Trade Representative shows Indonesia ran $23 billion trade deficit with America in 2022.
 
Indonesian finance officials say they're preparing for scenarios for Trump's new term and are hoping to explore opportunities in their trade 
 
 relationship with the U.S. Anindya Bakrie joins me now. He is the CEO of the Indonesian conglomerate Bakrie and Brothers. He's also the chairman of 
 
 the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. And he is in Washington this week with Indonesia's new president for talks with U.S. officials. Mr. 
 
 Bakrie, welcome to the program.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
ANINDYA BAKRIE, CHAIRMAN, INDONESIAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY AND CEO, BAKRIE AND BROTHERS:  Thank you very much, Lynda, for having me. It's 
 
 nice to be here in Washington, D.C.
 
KINKADE:  Well, I have to ask you, because imports from Indonesia into the U.S. have increased in recent years, and that includes electronic 
 
 equipment, footwear, clothing from brands like Gap and Old Navy, as well as seafood. And we heard throughout the campaign Trump pushing heavily for 
 
 blanket tariffs. I just want to play some sound of what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT-ELECT:  I love tariffs. I love tariffs, what they could do for your income and protection. And even third-party things 
 
 you can do just by the threat of tariffs. Because we're the pot of gold.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  He loves tariffs. Will blanket tariffs hurt trade?
 
BAKRIE:  First of all, we're, of course, analyzing what would be the impacts on the global trade. But, Lynda, we have seen this in 2016 to 2020. 
 
 And Indonesia is a net beneficiary because of three reasons. Number one, the China plus one strategy. So, Indonesia, just like Southeast Asia, has 
 
 been a place for relocation or reshoring.
 
And number two, despite the current trade that is increasing, it is starting from the lower base. Remember, Indonesia is a country of 280 
 
 million people and half of them below 30 years old. And this is a highly growing and consumptive country. So, we feel that the trade and investment 
 
 into the country from the U.S. will only increase.
 
And lastly, I think when we see something like the trade tension between the two giants, such as U.S. and China, we think Indonesia can enjoy two 
 
 parallel tracks on the technology improvement, especially in the area of digitalization and also energy transition. So, we think it is not all bad 
 
 when it comes to tariff.
 
In the long run, when you have any increase in tariff, especially trade war is never good for the world. But I think in the next four years, we have 
 
 seen in the past what Indonesia can do to maneuver the current condition.
 
KINKADE:  Yes. It's interesting listening to you talk about some of the potential benefits for a country like Indonesia. You, of course, are the 
 
 CEO of Bakrie and Brothers. This is a company that starts as a joint venture with an Australian company back in 1976. And we have heard from 
 
 other business leaders, like the shoe wear company, Steve Madden, which is, of course, preparing for these tariffs. Which companies within Indonesia do 
 
 you think might benefit from such an enormous tariff potentially on Chinese products? How many companies do you think will look to Indonesia to move 
 
 their business?
 
BAKRIE:  Yes. Actually, Lynda, we had a good meeting today with U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and we basically agree that the potential is big for 
 
 Indonesia and the U.S. to work together on this trend, right? Number one, Indonesia has grown five X in the last 25 years in terms of its GDP, making 
 
 it the 16th largest GDP country in the world. And we believe we can also grow five X in the next 25 years.
 
Now, President Prabowo just recently inaugurated October 20th. And, you know, we feel his plan is very clear. He wants to not only grow 5 percent, 
 
 like what we have done in the last 25 years, but also all the way up to 8 percent by doing certain things.
 
Number one, increasing resilience in food security and energy security, and also increasing growth by pushing agenda on education, health care, as well 
 
 as housing. But increasing also inclusivity, especially to small and medium enterprises and sustainability as we are a country with huge biodiversity. 
 
 So, all the countries that play along with this narrative will definitely benefit.
 
And Indonesia is also very serious in doing value added exports, which needs a lot of investments and that investments will only increase over 
 
 time. So, anybody who would like to focus on health, that should be a beneficiary, education, indeed, and also processing critical minerals, 
 
 especially making it a high value-added product, battery material, sending it to the western world like the U.S., that would be a big, big advantage 
 
 for such companies.
 
KINKADE:  Just today, your company announced that it will work with Chinese Envision to develop floating solar and wind power plants, which certainly 
 
 sounds like an exciting development. But I'm wondering how a blanket tariff of 60 to 100 percent on Chinese products could impact companies like yours, 
 
 which are working with Chinese businesses.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
BAKRIE:  So, what we are doing and a lot of Indonesian companies are doing, we're not only working on importing any materials from overseas, but we're 
 
 also building industrializations in Indonesia. In fact, this is one of the things that I mentioned previously about reshoring that will benefit not 
 
 only for Indonesia, but also for its partners that would like to deal with the west, including the U.S.
 
We feel Indonesia right now will only benefit for more and stronger relationship with the U.S. Because of the good relationship within 
 
 President Prabowo and President Trump. They had a good call yesterday. I'm not surprised, even in this visit that there may be a chance for the two 
 
 leaders to meet, including, of course, with the current President Biden.
 
So, combination of, you know, China plus one strategy, number two, starting from the lower base and then having, you know, America as a destination as 
 
 the market is large, I think it's a place to start. And Indonesia will only benefit, and I think U.S. will also benefit because of the natural 
 
 resources that Indonesia has, the human resources, you know, above the ground and many more.
 
And bear in mind, a lot of us are American trained, including the president of Indonesia, for example, and many of its ministers. So, the natural 
 
 connectivity in personality should never be underestimated as well.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Good to hear there are some benefits. Anindya Bakrie, chairman of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and CEO of 
 
 Bakrie and Brothers, good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
BAKRIE:  Thank you very much.
 
KINKADE:  Well, when we come back, a check of the international headlines, including the Kremlin denying that Vladimir Putin held a phone call with 
 
 Donald Trump about Ukraine. We'll have reaction from Moscow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade with a look at more international headlines this hour. Cuba's president says authorities 
 
 are assessing the damage after two powerful earthquakes struck on Sunday about an hour apart. The quakes causing landslides and damage to homes and 
 
 power lines. The country had already been recovering from widespread blackouts and the impact of two hurricanes in recent weeks.
 
He was President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris attended a Veterans Day memorial service at Arlington National Cemetery on Monday. It 
 
 was their first joint appearance since Harris' election loss last week. In his remarks, Biden honored American troops.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  This is the last time I will stand here at Arlington as commander in chief. It's been the greatest honor of my life to 
 
 lead you, to serve you, to care for you, to defend you, just as you defended us generation after generation after generation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Ukraine's president says Russia has deployed nearly 50,000 troops in Kursk. That's the Southern Russian region where Kyiv launched a surprise 
 
 counteroffensive back in August. A Ukrainian commander told CNN that North Korean troops are taking part in combat there. It comes as the Kremlin is 
 
 strenuously denying reports that President Vladimir Putin held a phone call about Ukraine with President-Elect Donald Trump.
 
Trump's victory is throwing uncertainty over the future of U.S. funding. Fred Pleitgen reports from Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over):  Russian state TV feasting on Donald Trump's election victory, the main talk 
 
 program showcasing a social media post by Donald Trump's son, Donald Trump Jr, mocking Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, saying his so-called 
 
 allowance from the U.S. will soon run out.
 
The message from Russian media, Ukraine is concerned U.S. aid could dry up and Russia will win the war. On Moscow's streets, optimism about the 
 
 incoming administration in Washington.
 
PLEITGEN:  Since the war in Ukraine, relations between Moscow and Washington have continued to plummet to new lows. But now, many people here 
 
 hope and believe that a new Trump presidency could bring those relations back on track.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  I don't think he can directory stop the war, but I feel he can set ultimatums to both sides.
 
PLEITGEN (through translator):  Trump also said he wants to end the war in Ukraine?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  We all want that. We really want the war to end now. This situation is impossible. I hope we get to a mutual 
 
 understanding.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  But what could a so-called mutual understanding look like? This video from Ukraine's military purporting to show Kyiv's 
 
 forces hitting Russian troops in the Kursk region of Russia, where the Ukrainians say they are now facing off against nearly 50,000 Russian and 
 
 also North Korean troops.
 
The Ukrainians acknowledge they probably wouldn't be able to sustain their operations without U.S. military aid. Aid Donald Trump has in the past 
 
 insinuated he might cut altogether in an effort he claims to end the war.
 
TRUMP:  They're dying, Russians and Ukrainians. I want them to stop dying. And I'll have that done in 24 hours. Takeover, Elon.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  A Ukrainian source now saying Trump was joined by billionaire Elon Musk on a recent phone call with Ukrainian President 
 
 Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Musk, who while helping Ukraine by providing Starlink satellite internet, has in the past also criticized military aid for 
 
 Ukraine, ridiculing Zelenskyy in posts on his platform X.
 
The Kremlin is vehemently denying Washington Post reporting claiming a Trump-Putin phone call has already happened. Still, Vladimir Putin openly 
 
 praising the president-elect's stance on Ukraine and on Russia.
 
What was said concerning the desire to restore relations with Russia to help end the Ukrainian crisis, in my opinion, seems to me to be at least 
 
 worthy of attention, Putin said.
 
The incoming Trump administration certainly has the attention of many in Russia, hoping for improved relations with the U.S. and even possible 
 
 sanctions relief.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Moscow.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, the COP29 climate summit got underway on Monday in Azerbaijan. Dignitaries beginning their 12-day conference under a cloud of 
 
 uncertainty after Donald Trump's election. The U.S. president-elect disputes the existence of man-made climate change, and he's vowed to pull 
 
 the United States out of the Paris Climate Accord once again.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
In Azerbaijan, U.S. Climate Envoy John Podesta said his country remains committed to its green energy goals, even with trump set to take charge.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN PODESTA, U.S. CLIMATE ENVOY:  What I want to tell you today is that while the United States federal government under Donald Trump may put 
 
 climate action on the back burner, the work to contain climate change is going to continue in the United States with commitment and passion and 
 
 belief.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Podesta also saying that President Biden's big piece of climate legislation, the Inflation Reduction Act, cannot be replaced by the Trump 
 
 White House. That said, anxieties at the conference remain high. Bill Weir has more.
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Lynda, there are a lot more questions than boldface names at the 29th Conference of the parties, 
 
 this big annual climate confab, this one in Baku, Azerbaijan. The only really recognizable figure, at least from the G7, Keir Starmer of the U.K., 
 
 no presidents of China or India or the United States, of course, Joe Biden is not there and the specter of Donald Trump hangs over the entire 
 
 proceedings.
 
A climate denying sort of scientific gadfly who does not have any patience for the entire construct of the Conference of Parties, at least that he's 
 
 indicated, calls it all a hoax, vowing to pull the United States out of the entire framework of the United Nations, which would be that much harder -- 
 
 make it that much harder for the U.S. to re-enter down the road.
 
The other news is we try to read the tea leaves about how life under Trump might play out. His pick for the top of the Environmental Protection Agency 
 
 in the U.S., a former congressman named Lee Zeldin, who shows a record much more of fealty and loyalty to Trump than any sort of environmental 
 
 legislation. He voted against most environmental protection in his career as a congressman from New York's Long Island. He's in favor of fracking. 
 
 And has said early on in the first interviews from day one they will do strict deregulation and try to strip back as many sort of environmental 
 
 protections from tailpipes to power plants as they possibly can.
 
A lot of momentum in the United States around electrification. And this particular COP in Baku was supposed to be about finance for the developing 
 
 world. They need hundreds of billions of dollars. The hope is to get a trillion dollars of commitment from richer countries to those who want to 
 
 didn't contribute to the global warming problem in the first place and now have to brace for the violent physics baked in right now. Joe Biden 
 
 promised $3 billion to that green fund last year. No telling what a lot that'll happen under Donald Trump.
 
So, just the entire fabric of international relations around this topic has changed dramatically with the American election so far. But we'll see as 
 
 things play out what sort of deals are provided for. There's a lot of momentum in private industry right now that pundits and economists say will 
 
 be hard to unwind. A lot of real work being done in red states in the United States, Republican districts where there are new battery plants or 
 
 clean energy facilities already being built. Hard to claw back for the new Trump administration.
 
And, of course, under all of this are the record temperatures. 2024 will shatter the all-time records, surpassing 1.5 degrees of global warming 
 
 above pre-industrial levels. That whole target of the Paris Accords. We live there now, right now. And so, what comes next and how much the world 
 
 is able to adapt? These are existential questions playing out this week. Lynda, back to you.
 
KINKADE:  Our thanks to Bill Weir there. We're to Japan now, where lawmakers have voted for Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba to remain in power. 
 
 The first runoff vote in decades came after his coalition lost a majority in the lower house. Hanako Montgomery reports from Tokyo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Shigeru Ishiba was just re-elected, meaning Japan's prime minister will stay in power. Not much change there. 
 
 But what's significant about this parliamentary vote is the fact that it went to a runoff.
 
Actually, this is the first time in 30 years that a vote for the new prime minister of Japan went to a runoff, underlying how fragile Japan's 
 
 leadership is. The Liberal Democratic Party, which is the prime minister's party, and also a conservative political machine that's pretty much 
 
 continuously ruled Japan since 1955 is struggling with public distrust because of how it handled a slush funds scandal.
 
Some lawmakers in the LDP were found to have not properly reported kickbacks, and when the public found out, they were angry. They were 
 
 disillusioned with the LDP. And that anger translated into how voters showed up at the polls last month. Japan held a general election for its 
 
 lower house in late October, and we saw for the first time in 15 years Japan's LDP lose its majority. That means it'll be much more difficult for 
 
 Ishiba and his party to put forward new policies.
 
But what's also top of mind for many lawmakers is the outcome of the U.S. presidential election. When the U.S. president-elect was last in power, 
 
 Japan's prime minister was Shinzo Abe. Abe was assassinated in 2022, but he's remembered as a very charismatic leader, a diplomatic politician who 
 
 knew how to deal with Trump.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
Abe's skills are widely believed to be the reason why Japan and the U.S. were able to maintain fairly good relations. But Ishiba is not known to 
 
 share Abe's skills, and there's some concern about how Ishiba will be able to manage Trump. But of course, that won't stop Ishiba from seeking good 
 
 relations with Trump and a meeting with a U.S. president-elect, perhaps making Ishiba the first foreign leader to meet Trump post-election victory, 
 
 just as Abe did back in 2016.
 
Hanako Montgomery, CNN, Tokyo.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, with the power shift happening in the U.S. since Donald Trump's re-election this week, analysts say there has been a major uptick 
 
 in sexist and abusive online attacks against women. We'll have a report on that next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. Since Donald Trump was re-elected last week, there's been a major uptick in sexist and abusive attacks on women across 
 
 social media. That's according to analysis from the Institute for Strategic Dialogue.
 
On Tuesday, this post on X by white nationalist and Holocaust denier Nick Fuentes, saying your body, my choice, forever went viral. It's been viewed 
 
 more than 90 million times. And the term has seen a massive uptick across platforms. Many women in the U.S. fear how this rhetoric will affect them.
 
Ashley in Florida told CNN, quote, "I have just tried again to console my daughter for probably the 10th time today. I'm telling her that things will 
 
 be OK. She's worried about going to school tomorrow since the boys were already celebrating their victory over the girls yesterday. She's worried 
 
 about her future and asking me hard questions that I don't know the answers to.
 
There have also been conversations among young liberal women about joining the 4B movement. That's a South Korean feminist movement in which straight 
 
 women refuse to marry, have children, date, or have sex with men. It emerged somewhere around 2015 or 2016 as an offshoot of the MeToo movement. 
 
 In 2016, a woman was brutally killed near a Seoul subway station. The perpetrator reportedly said he killed her because he felt ignored by women. 
 
 The murder prompted a national reckoning around how women are treated.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
Well, for more, I'm joined by Meera Choi. She's a PhD candidate at Yale University and joins me now live. Thanks so much for your time.
 
MEERA CHOI, PHD CANDIDATE, YALE UNIVERSITY:  Thank you for having me today.
 
KINKADE:  I want to first get your reaction to what we're seeing in the wake of the election, because reproductive health care was on the ballot, 
 
 and now we're seeing this huge surge, sexist and abusive attacks on women, like that post I mentioned, your body, my choice, is trending. And the 
 
 Institute for Strategic Dialogue says it's recorded a 4,600 percent increase in mentions of that phrase. And the other phrase trending is we 
 
 own your body. What's your reaction?
 
CHOI:  It's -- first of all, it was not surprising that this became an issue I think in South Korean context as well. We've been seeing a lot of 
 
 anti-feminist, pro-natalist policies, and a lot of conservative men reacting with welcoming these policies as well. And just seeing that 
 
 unfolding again in the U.S. with Trump being elected, I wasn't surprised, but also very sad to see that it's happening worldwide.
 
KINKADE:  And go back to the kitchen was also a phrase that's being shared widely online, certainly reminding me of that rebuttal speech by the 
 
 Republican Senator Katie Britt of Alabama who gave her a bottle speech in her kitchen after President Biden's State of the Union address. Talk to us 
 
 about the surge in internet searches that we are seeing in the U.S. now about South Korea's fringe feminist movement known as 4B and just explain 
 
 for us what that movement is.
 
CHOI:  Yes. So, the 4B movement, as you explained, is a feminist activism that emerged in South Korea around 2018. And 4B, it stands for rejecting 
 
 four aspects of heterosexual relationships, including marriage, childbearing, dating, and sexual relationships with men. There have been 
 
 other precursors of the 4B movement with opting out of marriage and childbearing as a way of political activism around mid-2000s, but this 4B 
 
 movement is a new wave of young feminists, mostly online based feminist, you know, reacting to the rise of anti-feminist policies and sentiments, 
 
 misogyny, and a lot of gender-based violence cases.
 
KINKADE:  It has been described as a fringe movement. Do you know how many women follow or support this movement within South Korea?
 
CHOI:  Yes, I get that question a lot. And of course, there's no official statistics around how many women are participating in the 4B movement and 
 
 is perceived almost as a niche movement. But based on my research that focuses on heterosexual refusal involving in depth interviews with 130 
 
 South Korean women, I find that while 4B is more of a distinct radical feminist identity, there are a lot of women who have already opted out of 
 
 heterosexual relationships entirely for various personal and feminist reasonings.
 
And even among women who do not identify as 4B, they find that refusing heterosexual relationship benefits women, and that is -- it is a desirable 
 
 way of living. And we can see in a lot of nationally representative survey in Korean context where one survey finds that almost 27 percent of women 
 
 said they do not intend to date anyone in the future. And one of the largest reasons for that is their discontent with the patriarchal dating 
 
 culture.
 
So, we see that while the 4B is more of a radical feminist identity, there is a wide spread, shared sentiment and narratives around participating and 
 
 refusing heterosexual relationships in South Korea.
 
KINKADE:  It certainly is amazing how many people, I think it was over 250,000 people, searched for that term after the U.S. election. So, do you 
 
 really think there'll be a move towards the 4B movement here in the U.S.?
 
CHOI:  That, I think, is a very important question that we would -- I would like to see how it unfolds. But I think there are a lot of similarities in 
 
 what we see in South Korea and in America that I could see that 4B becoming more popularized and more shared among -- especially liberal heterosexual 
 
 women. Like, South Korea, I think the response of 4B movement was due to widespread misogyny and violence against women. And with South Korea having 
 
 the lowest fertility rate, how the South Korean government was really leaning into anti-feminist gender politics and rhetoric to win over young 
 
 conservative men's political votes and support and seeing that unfold in the U.S., I think, there's a lot of sentiment around heterosexual women 
 
 being pessimistic about the government and the state and how the men are reacting to these issues.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
And I think there are a lot of young women in the U.S. are also responding to it by thinking of refusing and, you know, not consuming heterosexuality 
 
 as a way to combat this pessimistic world unfolding.
 
KINKADE:  Meera Choi, interesting perspective. Good to have you with us. Thanks so much for your time today.
 
CHOI:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, just days after scenes like this, we have more extreme weather hitting the Philippines in the form of a typhoon. 
 
 We'll have an update when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Well, we've got some news just in to CNN. President-Elect Donald Trump has asked Republican Congressman Mike Waltz of Florida to be his 
 
 national security adviser. That's according to a source familiar with the situation. He is a combat decorated veteran and a former White House and 
 
 Pentagon adviser. And CNN will have much more on this development and all the other picks next hour.
 
Well, a volunteer forest ranger has died responding to a wildfire in New York State. The 18-year-old lost his life Saturday while fighting a fire 
 
 near the New York and New Jersey border. The Jennings Creek Fire has burned more than 3,000 acres, that's about 1,200 hectares. It's only about 10 
 
 percent contained. Recent rain has helped firefighting efforts and improved air quality. However, the wind is picking up and there could be an 
 
 increased risk on Tuesday.
 
Well, in our Weather Move, Typhoon Toraji brings heavy rainfall and gusty winds to the Philippines, still recovering from other deadly storms. And it 
 
 looks like there are more on the way. Let's go to Chad Myers. Chad, they've pretty much -- they've had typhoon after typhoon in the Philippines and now 
 
 another.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes. Another and then another back out to the west. It just will not stop. And typically, the Western Pacific Ocean 
 
 hurricane season or typhoon season doesn't stop. Unlike the Atlantic hurricane season, where the water gets cold enough that we don't get 
 
 hurricanes in December here, you can just keep going all year long.
 
And so, here was the one that hit on Thursday. It was 200 kilometers per hour hitting the northern part of Luzon. Now, it's kind of making rain into 
 
 Da Nang and little portions just south of there. But really, this is a 30 KPH storm. This is nothing left of what it was.
 
And then, earlier today, here you go, Toraji making landfall on the east coast. It's already on the west coast and back in the water, but at least 
 
 another 400 millimeters of rain in places, Lynda, that have already picked up a meter of rain over the past couple of weeks. So, it's going to move 
 
 toward Hong Kong. We'll see a little bit of rainfall there, but we won't see a landfall. I don't think with this.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
Here's Usagi. Guess what's over here, the Philippines. Another storm likely will be a typhoon. In fact, will likely be around 175 to 185 KPH when it 
 
 does get very close to the Philippines. One storm after another. I don't know how -- and I've talked about this with my colleagues here at CNN, 
 
 we're not sure how you can get two meters of rainfall over the course of just a couple of weeks and not have thousands of fatalities. They just do 
 
 such a very good job, and it's not as populated as Manila. I get that. But they do such a good job at keeping the people safe there in the Philippines 
 
 from one storm after another.
 
And then here's the next. It will likely make its way toward Guam. Still only about 80. We're not talking a major storm, but there again, the 
 
 Philippines in the way possibly of that one again. Will it please stop for these people here? I just like, please, just go north or south. Do 
 
 something, man. It's been rough.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, it certainly has. They need a break. No doubt about that. Chad Myers, thanks so for that update.
 
MYERS:  You bet.
 
KINKADE:  Well, finally, on "First Move," bootleg Banksy and pirated Picasso. Police in Italy have uncovered a massive network of forged artwork 
 
 with alleged replicas of works by Vincent van Gogh, Andy Warhol, Pablo Picasso and many others. Investigators ceased more than 2,000 pieces with a 
 
 potential market value of $215 million.
 
Well, that just about wraps up the show. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Thanks so much for joining us. Stay with us. Julia is back tomorrow night. See you then.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END