Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Rescued Israeli Hostage Released from Hospital; Trump Calls Harris a "Marxist" and Bashes Mail-In Voting; Telegram Founder Released from Custody, Brought to Court; Opposition Calls for Worldwide Rallies Against Election Results; Kelce Brothers Sign $100 Million Podcast Deal. Aired 9- 9:45a ET

Aired August 28, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: This is the scene in the occupied West Bank, where Israel says it has launched a major 
 
 counterterrorism offensive. It is 04:00 p.m. there in the West Bank, 09:00 a.m. here in Atlanta. I'm Amara Walker. This is "Connect the World". 
 
Also, over the next two hours, a Special Counsel in the January 6th case has filed a brand-new indictment against Donald Trump. CNN looks inside 
 
 Iran's alleged hacking operation to target people linked to both Donald Trump and Joe Biden. And later today, Chip Giant Nvidia releases its 
 
 earnings with Wall Street on tenterhooks.
 
The stock market in New York will open in about 30 minutes from now. This is how it's reacting ahead of those Nvidia earnings. You can see U.S. 
 
 Future markets are down. Now, Israel has launched a significant military operation in the occupied West Bank. 
 
An IDF spokesperson says it is a response to the deadly attacks from the area that are linked to Iran. The Palestinian Health Ministry reports at 
 
 least nine people have been killed. Its Foreign Ministry calls the raid an escalation. It's happening while the war rages on in Gaza and ceasefire 
 
 talks grind on in Egypt and Qatar. Jim Sciutto is connecting us this hour from Tel Aviv. Jim, what do we know and how serious is this operation?
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF U.S. SECURITY ANALYST: Well, it's the largest Israeli military operation in the occupied West Bank since the October 7th 
 
 attacks. That's significant by itself. The death toll, as you noted, stands at nine at this point. And the IDF justification for this, they say, is an 
 
 Islamic Iranian terrorist network. 
 
They're alleging that Iran is managing to get weapons into fighters there in the West Bank weapons and supporting them financially as well to carry 
 
 out attacks. They are not making an explicit connection between a suicide bombing here in Tel Aviv, little more than a week ago, in which just the 
 
 bomber was killed.
 
But they are mentioning that as an example of the threat that Israel is facing from these kinds of attacks. Now, Hamas' reaction to this has been 
 
 quite strong. It is calling for a mobilization of Hamas fighters in the West Bank to respond.
 
So, it has the potential not to escalate into a broader conflict in the West Bank, between Israeli forces and Hamas fighters and other affiliated 
 
 groups, and at the same time, of course, when you still have the war going on unabated in Gaza. So, it's a real escalation, and it's one we're 
 
 watching closely, and it's not clear now how long it's going to continue.
 
WALKER: All right, Jim Sciutto, covering the story from Tel Aviv. Thank you so much Jim. An Israeli hostage rescued from Gaza has been released from 
 
 the hospital. Israel's military says its troops found 52-year-old Farhan Al-Qadi Tuesday in a Hamas tunnel in the southern part of Gaza. 
 
His brother says he was shot in the leg when he was kidnapped on October 7th, and that it appears the wound was poorly treated. He was operated on 
 
 without anaesthesia. Al-Qadi spoke with Benjamin Netanyahu over the phone, thanking the Prime Minister for the rescue and reminding him that other 
 
 hostages are still waiting. CNN's Nic Robertson has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): The moments after his rescue, the first to be recovered live from a tunnel, 52-
 
 year-old, Kaid Farhana Al-Qadi, a Muslim Bedouin Israeli, surrounded by Israeli Special Forces quickly rushed to a helicopter much thinner than he 
 
 was when Hamas snatched him as he guarded a packing facility in a Kibbutz near Gaza almost 11 months ago.
 
His family's agonizing weight almost over rushing through the hospital to greet his helicopter. Soldiers and medics carefully stretching him towards 
 
 doctors and the hospital. And this family, the look on both brothers faces, saying it all the rescued hostage, gaunt but smiling, his elder brother, 
 
 beaming ear to ear.
 
KHATEM AL-QADI, BROTHER OF FARHAN AL-QADI: I can't explain these feelings. It's like being born again. God bless and we say thank you to everyone.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): The IDF describing the troops involved in his rescue as daring and courageous, saying Al-Qadi was found alone without his 
 
 captors.
 
DANIEL HAGARI, ISRAELI MILITARY SPOKESPERSON: We cannot go into many details of this special operation, but I can share that, Israeli commandos 
 
 rescued Qaid Farhan Al-Qadi from an underground tunnel following accurate intelligence.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): In the desert his Bedouin tribe, readying for that moment home fires, lit traditional coffee brewing the extended family all 
 
 coming to celebrate what they and he believed might never happen.
 
ROBERTSON: Did your brother think he was going to survive?
 
ABU MOHAMMAD AL-QADI, BROTHER OF FARHAN AL-QADI: God wrote him another life. He himself doesn't believe that he is back alive. He told me, when I 
 
 saw him, that my wish was to see you and say hello to you, and then I can die.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): His younger brother telling me Al-Qadi and the families rode back to full recovery could be a long one.
 
AL-QADI: It is impossible to erase the memories that he saw there. I personally will not go back to who I was before I am completely changed.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): As they await Al-Qadi's return, they pray grateful they say no blood was spilled in his rescue that the war and the suffering 
 
 may end, and all the hostages come home. Nic Robertson, CNN, Tarabin, Israel.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALKER: And you can follow the latest developments from the West Bank and Gaza and all the news from the Middle East in our "Meanwhile in the Middle 
 
 East" newsletter, it is sent out three times a week with stories from experts across the region. You can subscribe to the newsletter by scanning 
 
 the QR code right there at the bottom of your screen. 
 
Well, Donald Trump isn't off the hook yet for his alleged efforts to overturn the 2020 election. The Special Counsel in the January 6th case has 
 
 filed a brand-new indictment despite last month's bombshell U.S. Supreme Court ruling granting Trump partial presidential immunity. 
 
The revamped indictment is a slimmed down version of the original, but prosecutors have not dropped any of the four charges initially brought 
 
 against the former president. CNN's Senior Crime and Justice Reporter Katelyn Polantz is live in Washington. Katelyn, I mean, this is coming as a 
 
 rate house for -- the race for the White House is entering its final months. How different is this indictment from the original and what does it 
 
 leave out?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, Amara it's about 13 pages shorter than the original indictment, and that's because the 
 
 Special Counsel's Office and the Justice Department, they had to cut a lot of language out of the allegations.
 
The sort of things that they would want to talk about or prove to a jury when this case does or if it eventually goes to trial. The things that the 
 
 Supreme Court told them cannot be part of the case against Donald Trump as a former president. 
 
The Supreme Court said there is immunity around the presidency a bubble, and so the things that Trump was doing and saying while acting as the 
 
 president can't be part of the case, things like what he was trying to do with the Justice Department, his discussions with senior White House 
 
 officials, other aides of his in the Executive Branch.
 
Jeffrey Clark, who used to be a co-conspirator, now no longer part of this case at all, also things Trump was learning and saying when he was in the 
 
 Oval Office, when he was getting briefings from intelligence agencies that there wasn't widespread fraud after the election, when he was talking to 
 
 people or trying to make addresses from the Oval Office or from the Rose Garden that is all cut out. 
 
And so that is what's left behind. But there's still a lot there about fake electors Trump as a candidate, what he was talking with his advisers on the 
 
 campaign, and what he was telling his private attorneys to do after those - - after the election, leading up to and on January 6th.
 
WALKER: Has there been a reaction response from the Trump camp?
 
POLANTZ: There has. So, some sources familiar with the Trump defense team told me this was surprising on timing that the Justice Department did this 
 
 week or rewrote this indictment, but they really expected something like this. 
 
Donald Trump himself has gone to Truth Social and written a book, essentially of truth, saying this is an act of desperation election 
 
 interference. And his running mate, J.D. Vance, running for the Vice Presidency as a Republican, he was on the campaign trail yesterday and said 
 
 this in response.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), 2024 VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Yeah, I haven't read the whole thing, but it looks like Jack Smith doing more what he does, 
 
 which is filing these absurd lawsuits in an effort to influence the election. I think it's clearly an effort to try to do more election 
 
 interference from Jack Smith. He should be ashamed of himself, and it's one of the reasons why we have to win, because he should not be anywhere near 
 
 power.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POLANTZ: Two little points Amara though, about what J.D. Vance just said, it's not a lawsuit, it's a criminal case, a criminal indictment, different 
 
 thing. And also, regarding Jack Smith doing this, it wasn't just him. He went through a grand jury of citizens who looked at the evidence here again 
 
 and approved this indictment.
 
WALKER: Very important distinctions. I'm glad you made that. So, what do we know about the timeline of all this? Because there really is no chance that 
 
 this will go to trial before the presidential election. So, what can we expect legally from now until Election Day?
 
POLANTZ: No chance that there will be a trial anytime soon, but there's a lot more things that have to happen in court. 
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Appeals over things, but first, before they even get there, the trial court judge is going to be hearing from both sides at the end of this week, and 
 
 then in person next week about what should happen next. How does she look at this indictment, and what are the things that everybody is going to have 
 
 to argue about?
 
And then the judge will have to decide if they can stay in the case, things like the conversations between Donald Trump and Mike Pence, that the 
 
 Justice Department in the new indictment is saying, those were things that Trump was saying to Pence because Pence was presiding over the Senate, not 
 
 acting as his vice president, or because they were both running for re- election as president and vice president.
 
Also, they're going to probably have to talk about the tweets that Donald Trump was sending after the election. Are those tweets on his official 
 
 platform of real Donald Trump as president, or are those tweets he was sending as a private person, a candidate for office that can stay in as 
 
 part of this case. But really pay attention to what the Justice Department says this next week and then what the judge wants to do after that, in 
 
 setting a timeline and a plan moving forward?
 
WALKER: All those legal troubles are not going away for Trump. Katelyn Polantz, thank you. With 69 days to go until the November presidential 
 
 election, Democrats are focusing their efforts this week on the battleground state of Georgia. Kamala Harris and Tim Walz are expected to 
 
 kick off a bus tour later today in Southeast Georgia and hold a rally in Savannah on Thursday. 
 
It is their first public appearance together on the campaign trail since the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. They will also sit down with 
 
 CNN's Dana Bash on Thursday for their first in depth on the record interview with a journalist since President Joe Biden dropped his bid for 
 
 re-election. CNN's Eva McKend joining us now from Washington. Hi, there Eva. 
 
So, Harris has been facing this growing pressure from Republicans and really from the media to participate in such a sit-down interview, an in-
 
 depth interview since she became the Democratic Presidential Candidate. What more can you tell us about her interview with our colleague, Dana 
 
 Bash?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: She has Amara. I have to say, from being out on the campaign trail, though her supporters aren't 
 
 clamoring for this as much as we are in the press and her rivals, to be sure. But this is her opportunity to appeal to voters that may not already 
 
 be in her camp, independent voters, moderate voters, never Trumpers, who they are trying to court. 
 
And this will be her opportunity to sort of set the record straight here on policy. She might have differences then President Biden, she can detail 
 
 those. She's had some reversals on some key issues, like fracking, which is so important in the State of Pennsylvania, and then immigration as well. 
 
In her own memoir, she has a pretty forceful defense of immigrants at large, undocumented immigrants included, and now she supports a bipartisan 
 
 border enforcement bill that includes no pathways to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. So, these are all of the policy questions that she 
 
 should have to answer, and no doubt, will likely come up in the interview with our colleague, Dana Amara.
 
WALKER: And this Harris Walz bus tour kicking off today in Georgia. This is their first campaign stop, joint one following the Democratic National 
 
 Convention. Obviously, that is significant, because Georgia is a crucial battleground state?
 
MCKEND: It is, and we're getting some insight into their strategy here. They don't only think that they can play in metro Atlanta. They want to go 
 
 to those rural communities as well. This is also going to serve as a test for Governor Walz. He, of course, comes from a rural community, so they are 
 
 seeing how he plays here and how he connects with voters in the southern part of the state?
 
And then will make determinations from there about deploying him solo in other rural pockets of the south. But listen, this is a consistent concern 
 
 from people who live in those regions, speaking to Democratic strategists and organizers, they say Democrats have to play everywhere, even in 
 
 counties that they don't necessarily think that they can win, even if they increase their margin of success that is a win, because they are forcing 
 
 Republicans to spend money in areas that they traditionally didn't play.
 
WALKER: Eva McKend, appreciate you. Thanks so much. And as a reminder, Kamala Harris and Tim Walz will have their first interview since the 
 
 Democratic Convention right here on CNN with Dana Bash. Make sure to tune in Thursday, 09:00 p.m. Eastern. 
 
Meanwhile, Trump has suggested that President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris are partly responsible for the attempt on his life last 
 
 month. His allegation came during a wide-ranging interview with U.S. talk show host Dr. Phil. 
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: When this happened, people would ask, whose fault is it? I think to a 
 
 certain extent, it's Biden's fault and Harris's fault, and I'm the opponent. Look, they were weaponizing government against me. They brought 
 
 in the whole DOJ to try and get me. They weren't too interested in my health and safety.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: Trump went on to call Harris a Marxist and the worst vice president. He said mail in voting shouldn't be allowed, even though his own 
 
 campaign and the Republican National Committee are urging supporters to vote by mail. 
 
All right, now to a CNN exclusive report about Iran's alleged hacking attempts. We have told you how U.S. officials are accusing Tehran of 
 
 hacking into the Trump campaign. Well, now CNN has taken a closer look at an intricate network using phishing and other targets attacks, I should 
 
 say, to target people linked to both Donald Trump and Joe Biden. 
 
Iran insists it's not involved. These latest fears of foreign interference are putting U.S. officials on edge ahead of the November election. Our 
 
 Senior U.S. Justice Correspondent Evan Perez has been part of this investigation. He's joining us now with details. You'll only find here on 
 
 CNN. Evan, tell us more about your investigation, what you've been covered, and what kind -- what does -- what do these emails look like?
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR U.S. JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, yeah. Look, I mean, the term is called social engineering, and what the hackers do, 
 
 including these very good hackers that are working with the Iranian government, what they're doing is they find ways to try to get you to click 
 
 on something, and in this case, with former Trump administration officials, former Biden administration officials, they're using think tax and 
 
 academics as a way to try to entice you to click on these emails.
 
And it's very rare for us to see what these emails look like. I don't know if we have a graphic made on this but I'll read you just a part of what an 
 
 email that went out from the account of one former official who worked in the Trump Administration. 
 
And it said, essentially, it said, this. I am close to finishing the manuscript, and have begun asking experts like yourselves to review the 
 
 chapters. And what the experts thought they were getting were a man -- was a manuscript instead, what it was, was malware which would have unleashed 
 
 on their systems and taken over their accounts. 
 
And we've seen this repeatedly back in 2022 and even up to a few months ago, with the Former Senior U.S. Diplomat in the Middle East, someone who 
 
 the Iranians clearly believed had information and could have access to information that they wanted. 
 
Now, the big concern, as you pointed out, is that they've now begun targeting the Trump campaign and the Biden campaign, sorry, the Harris 
 
 campaign. And the question is, is this part of an effort to try to influence the U.S. election in November? That's what the U.S. intelligence 
 
 experts believe.
 
And that's one of the reasons why there is so much concern about it, because they could take sensitive documents, as they did from the Trump 
 
 campaign just a few months ago, and unleash them on the public, perhaps in October, right before the vote. Again, the purpose here is perhaps not only 
 
 intelligence gathering, but to try to influence the U.S. election, something, of course, that we saw the Russians do very, very effectively 
 
 back in 2016.
 
WALKER: Yeah, they sure did. And this is obviously very concerning, but we appreciate you digging into this. Evan, thank you for your reporting.
 
PEREZ: Thank you. 
 
WALKER: Well, as the fighting rages on, the Ukrainian President says he has a blueprint to end Russia's war against his country, but he says he will 
 
 need help. The details are next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
WALKER: Right now, we are hearing of Russian attacks on several regions of Ukraine with at least 10 people killed. This comes in the same week when 
 
 Moscow launched what is being described as its biggest ever aerial attack on Ukraine. But Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he has a victory plan and Kyiv's 
 
 recent incursion into Russia's Kursk Region is only the beginning.
 
Speaking in Kyiv on Tuesday, the Ukrainian President outlined his four- stage proposal and announced he will be traveling to the UN General Assembly next month. That is where he plans to talk with U.S. President Joe 
 
 Biden, saying the U.S. is crucial to his blueprint for ending Russia's war against Ukraine. 
 
CNN's Salma Abdelaziz is following the latest developments. She's joining us now live. OK, Salma tell us more about Zelenskyy's victory plan, this 
 
 four-stage plan.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right. So, I would start by just saying that this is more of an outline than really a detailed plan. There's very 
 
 little detail in it. In fact, that's of course, because Zelenskyy says he wants to save the details of this for when he potentially could meet with 
 
 President Biden next month, around the UN General Assembly. 
 
It's also important to note the context in which President Zelenskyy was making these statements. It was this week, on Monday, that Ukraine said it 
 
 endured the most massive aerial assault from Russia since the beginning of this conflict. So, you had President Zelenskyy, sitting on a stage with 
 
 journalists, very much trying to project strength, rather trying to make sure that he still has a hold of the narrative.
 
And pointing to Kursk, of course, that invasion, that surprise invasion ongoing by Ukraine into Russian territory as a victory, saying that they 
 
 still have the upper hand, despite the fact that Russian troops are just barrelling on through in the Donbas, very close to a strategic city, 
 
 Pokrovsk, where families are fleeing the violence, despite this President Zelenskyy saying, we have the upper hand, not just that we're taking 
 
 matters into our own hands. 
 
He detailed plans that the Ukrainian military had to develop its own weapons. He said that the first domestic ballistic missile test had 
 
 occurred. Important also for me to point out here that it is unlikely we'd see any of these weapons on the battleground anytime soon, but it's part of 
 
 the pressure that Zelenskyy is building on his allies demanding not just more weapons, but more permissions to use those weapons. 
 
His hope is to use those long-range weapons that have been provided by NATO to strike inside Russian territory. That's something that Western allies 
 
 are very hesitant about. They are concerned about the possibility of escalation. But President Zelenskyy feels that the only way to strike back 
 
 at Russia, particularly when it comes to its attacks on civilian infrastructure, is to hit back at the source.
 
WALKER: And stay with me Salma because I know you've been following this breaking news that we're going to tell you about out of France. Telegram 
 
 Founder Pavel Durov has been released from police custody. The Paris prosecutor's office tells us that he is being brought to a Paris court for 
 
 initial questioning and possible indictment. 
 
Durov has been held since his controversial arrest as he arrived in Paris on a private plane on Saturday. Salma you've been -- you've been following 
 
 this story. What else do you know?
 
ABDELAZIZ: Look, this is going to be absolutely so key to see what takes place in court today. As you just mentioned, he is on his way to court 
 
 where he could potentially be indicted. He will receive initial questioning. Everyone will be looking at this so closely, because, as you 
 
 mentioned, this is highly controversial. 
 
It is a question as to whether or not France can provide enough evidence to indict him on the charges that may potentially come up. He's basically 
 
 being accused of being responsible for the items on his platform, Telegram. And that's the question here. It's a free debate matter. Are individuals 
 
 who host these platforms, such as Telegram, responsible for what happens on those platforms? 
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
French prosecutors, of course, are saying yes, we're pointing to very serious crimes, including the sale of arms, child pornography, other 
 
 criminal activities that are occurring on Telegram, and we hold Durov responsible for that. Durov, of course, and his ally say, absolutely not. 
 
 This is a matter of free speech. So, what happens in court today will begin to demonstrate what that argument is for French prosecutors.
 
WALKER: All right, Salma Abdelaziz, thank you so much. Let's get you up to speed now on some other stories that are on our radar right now. The 
 
 Philippine Coast Guard has released new video showing a standoff between its vessels and Chinese warships in the South China Sea. 
 
The Philippine military officials there say China sent an excessive force of more than 49 vessels to an atoll that lies within the exclusive economic 
 
 zone of the Philippines. China says two of its ships were there, were conducting a humanitarian operation. 
 
And one month after Venezuela's disputed presidential election, the opposition is calling for worldwide protests against the government of 
 
 Nicolas Maduro. Mr. Maduro had declared himself the winner of July's election. The opposition has rejected election officials ruling that he 
 
 won.
 
In Sudan, the death toll from flash flooding and a burst dam has skyrocketed to at least 30. The UN is warning that number could rise 
 
 significantly as more victims are found. Floodwaters have displaced at least 30,000 families and destroyed thousands of homes in several 
 
 provinces. Still to come on "Connect the World" all eyes are on tech giant, Nvidia. What's today's earnings report could tell us about the explosion of 
 
 AI?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: All right. Welcome back, everyone. I'm Amara Walker in Atlanta, and you are watching "Connect the World". Investors are eagerly awaiting a 
 
 critical earnings report from Nvidia, the most valuable public company in the world. The chip manufacturers report could have a major impact on the 
 
 stock market and how much other companies invest in AI development? 
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CNN's Matt Egan shared his outlook for Nvidia with me a short time ago.
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Nvidia is not just the MVP of the AI boom, it's the MVP of the entire stock market. And we know from sports, a superstar 
 
 can either carry a team or bring it down. Everything has been going in one direction, straight up for Nvidia. 
 
Look at that share price spike. This is a meteoric rise, almost 3,000 percent increase in the share price in the last five years alone. That's 
 
 because Nvidia makes the AI chips that power this AI revolution, and this rise has made the company one of the most valuable on the planet. 
 
Even though Nvidia is not a household name, it is now worth $3.2 trillion more than Microsoft, more than Alphabet, more than Amazon, more than Saudi 
 
 Aramco, and just behind Apple for the number one spot here. It's been absolutely incredible. But look, the bar has been set very high for Nvidia 
 
 to justify that valuation. 
 
And Wall Street analysts are expecting meteoric growth to be revealed in today's earnings report, triple digit growth across the board, for profit, 
 
 for revenue, for free cash flow. So, whether or not this company can live up to those expectations is a huge deal, because the higher the share price 
 
 goes, the bigger impact it has on the overall stock market. So, everyone on Wall Street is going to be listening very closely to this earnings report 
 
 after the bell today. 
 
WALKER: All right, investors are looking for clues on whether the artificial intelligence boom has room to run. What are they finding?
 
EGAN: Well, that is the big question. I think everyone really wants to listen to Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong says about demand going forward, because 
 
 we know big tech is spending aggressively on AI everything from chips and servers and new products and new AI models. But the question is, what are 
 
 they going to do next?
 
I talked to veteran analyst, Dan Ives at Wedbush Securities, and he told me that he expects another quote, drop the mic, performance from Nvidia. As 
 
 right now, Jansen and Co are the only game in town. He said that there is so much demand for Nvidia's chips that they have become the modern-day oil 
 
 and gold. So, it's just absolutely incredible. But Wall Street wants to see whether or not that growth can continue. 
 
WALKER: CNN's Matt Egan breaking that down for us. Turning now to Venezuela and the opposition there is calling for worldwide rallies in the coming 
 
 hours to press for recognition of their victory in a disputed presidential election, which they claim was stolen by President Nicolas Maduro. As CNN's 
 
 Stefano Pozzebon reports, many protesters have also fled the country amid fears of a government crackdown.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST (voice-over): A month ago, we met Victor Medina (ph) campaigning for freedom in Venezuela. He was urging people to 
 
 vote for opposition candidate Ed Mundo Gonzalez, who was challenging authoritarian President Nicolas Maduro at the polls. But since then, a lot 
 
 has changed.
 
Venezuelan electoral authorities declaring Maduro the winner of that election without showing any proof, and the government detaining more than 
 
 2000 people in a ferocious crackdown on dissent. Medina is now a migrant in Colombia. I never wanted to leave this way he tells me fleeing my homeland 
 
 as if I was a criminal. His only crime, he says, was serving as an electoral witness for Gonzalez's campaign.
 
While Maduro claims victory, the opposition has published more than 20,000 voting tallies that show that Gonzalez won the election collected by 
 
 volunteers like Medina, who took his certificate all the way to Bogota. 
 
POZZEBON: Do you know that somebody from the opposition told me that these documents have become like kryptonite in Venezuela, because the government 
 
 is hunting down everybody who was involved with a collection of the tallies. 
 
POZZEBON (voice-over): Electoral experts told CNN the results published by the opposition match mathematically and statistically. And several 
 
 countries, including the United States, have already recognized Gonzalez as the legitimate winner. Medina is not alone. Other dissidents have left 
 
 Venezuela in recent weeks in much more delicate circumstances.
 
POZZEBON: Why does this interview need to remain anonymous?
 
ANONYMOUS VENEZUELAN DISSIDENT: After they put out an arrest order for me and I left, the police took my wife and my daughter to make me surrender. 
 
 We are safe now, but my family remains in Venezuela, and I'm worried for them.
 
POZZEBON (voice-over): CNN spoke with several opposition activists who are now in Colombia, Ecuador and the United States fearing retaliation against 
 
 their loved ones, most asked for their identity to remain hidden. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
While Venezuelan authorities did not respond to CNN's questions surrounding these cases. Before the election, one poll suggested up to a third of 
 
 Venezuelans would consider migrating if Maduro stayed in power, adding further pressure to governments already struggling to contain the migrant 
 
 flows to the U.S. southern border. Secretary for Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, was in Colombia on Monday, pledging resources to 
 
 address migration.
 
ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS, U.S. SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY: Regional challenges require regional solutions.
 
POZZEBON (voice-over): Medina would rather be part of the solution, but it really is clear. I thought this was the year we would welcome our loved 
 
 ones back to Venezuela. I feel instead we will meet together abroad, he says. Stefano Pozzebon, CNN Bogota.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALKER: Ahead in sport, Naomi Osaka is back to her winning ways at the U.S. Open, and she made a fashion statement along the way. Plus, from in front 
 
 of the camera to behind the drum set, we'll tell you which famous actor we just showed you his face join the band for none other than Ed Sheeran. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: Actor Chris Hemsworth has taken on a different role on a huge stage. The star of Thor surprised fans at an Ed Sheeran Concert in 
 
 Bucharest, Romania with his new talent.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You've been on stage play with us for the whole time, playing in time. Will you make some noise for Chris Hemsworth?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thor Actor Chris Hemsworth surprised fans by taking on a whole new role as a drummer for Grammy Winner Ed Sheeran.
 
UNIDENIFIED MALE: Make some noise for Chris. Give him the big round of applause guys.
 
ED SHEERAN, GRAMMY-WINNING SINGER: We're here in Bucharest. Basically, what's happening is Chris emailed me last December saying a documentary on 
 
 cognitive health and the benefits of learning instruments. He came to visit me, and he has learned from Cindy's coming on stage in front of 70,000.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We've been thinking about it a lot -- to put this one to bed.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He said, can I -- can I learn the instrument to play at your show? And I said, yes. He started learning this instrument two months 
 
 ago, and he has been on stage playing with us for the whole time, playing inside. Will you make some noise for Chris Hemsworth? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Give him the big round of applause guys. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
WALKER: Who are they cheering for? Chris Hemsworth, or both him and Ed Sheeran? NFL Stars Travis and Jason Kelce have agreed to a podcast deal 
 
 worth a reported $100 million with Amazon's Wondery Studio. It's just in time for the start of a new NFL season. 
 
In return, Wondery gets ad sales and distribution rights to their popular podcast "New Heights with Jason and Travis Kelce". The brothers draw a big 
 
 audience with their light-hearted chat about life as well as football, and Travis Kelsey as what Taylor Swift's boyfriend is also drawing new fans to 
 
 the show.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Steelers, first Vikings in the first ever best NFL team named Bracket Final. Steelers, 39.4 percent of the votes and your Minnesota 
 
 Vikings with the best team's name in the entire NFL wins it on a 60 percent slide, just not even close, not even close.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, man.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Minnesota Vikings. Damn was nobody on Twitter.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just another beat for the U.S., steel market.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: Finally, Tennis Star Naomi Osaka, got off to a winning start in her return to the U.S. Open, but her colorful pre match outfit was the thing 
 
 that got everyone online talking. Of course it did. Andy Scholes joining me now to talk fashion. Andy, I do love that green bow. It's beautiful.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, she didn't wear it for the match, obviously, but she came out -- you know Naomi Osaka, very into fashion, 
 
 always coming up with something new. And she had that big bow on her back warming up. It looked pretty cool. 
 
She said it was kind of like her super suit. She was kind of uneasy about what kind of reception it was going to get, but it turned out to be pretty 
 
 positive. Someone even asked to take a picture with her because of what she was wearing. 
 
But what she says -- you know she loves trying out new fashion there in New York at the U.S. Open, so it'll be interesting to see what she has in store 
 
 for round number two, because she's into the second round for the first time since 2021.
 
WALKER: All right, yeah, my daughter's a huge fan, and has a pair of her shoes and struts around in it quite proudly. So anyway, Andy Scholes, get 
 
 to see you. Thanks so much. "World Sport" is next, and my colleague Rahel Solomon will be back with more "Connect the World" at the top of the hour.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END