Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Biden Hosts NATO Summit in Washington; George Clooney Calls for President Biden to Step Aside; President Biden Meeting with PM Starmer in Oval Office; Biden Urging NATO to Ramp Up War Production; F-16 Heading to Ukraine; Russian Tourists Reflect North Korea's Changing Politics; North Korea's Growing Tourism Industry; Airbnb Fails to Protect Guests from Hidden Cameras; Congressman Earl Blumenauer Calls on Biden to Step Down; Amazon Clean Energy Revolution; Amazon Hitting Key Climate Milestones Earlier than Expected; England to Face Spain in Euro 2024 Final. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired July 10, 2024 - 18:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE:  It's 7:00 a.m. in Seoul, 11:00 p.m. in London, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move" and here's today's need to know. Clooney's concerned, the actor and political donor joining calls for Joe 
 
 Biden to exit the presidential race.
 
Military manufacturing, the U.S. president urging NATO members to ramp up industrial production to help keep pace with Russia's weapons supplies.
 
Camp Korea. Russian children holidaying in North Korea met with chores and propaganda.
 
And ecstatic England. The three lions roaring into the Euro 2024 football final. All that and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, President Biden hosting NATO leaders as the crisis surrounding his re-election campaign threatens to overshadow the talks and other urgent 
 
 international issues. Now, eight congressional Democrats have publicly urged the president to step aside from the 2024 race. Former House Speaker 
 
 Nancy Pelosi said he could still reconsider his decision to keep going. And the Democratic super donor George Clooney has urged the president to 
 
 voluntarily step aside. The actor has been one of Biden's biggest supporters. And just last month, he led a Hollywood fundraiser that brought 
 
 in $28 million for Biden's campaign.
 
The risks of staying in the race were laid bare when one of his party senators warned that Donald Trump could win in a "landslide." From the 
 
 White House. Kayla Tausche has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  With world leaders at hand, President Biden eager to get back to business as 
 
 usual.
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  Stronger supply chains, stronger economy, stronger military, and a stronger nation.
 
TAUSCHE (voice-over):  And the White House wants to move on from speculation about the president's political future. But for Democrats, the 
 
 domino effect continues. Actor George Clooney penning an op-ed in "The New York Times" calling on Biden to step aside. Writing, it's devastating to 
 
 say it, but the Joe Biden I was with three weeks ago at the fundraiser was not the Joe big F-ing deal Biden of 2010. He wasn't even the Joe Biden of 
 
 2020.
 
Filmmaker Rob Reiner joining Clooney writing on X, democracy is facing an existential threat. We need someone younger to fight back. Joe Biden must 
 
 step aside. And House Speaker Emeritus Nancy Pelosi noncommittal.
 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA):  It's up to the president to decide if he is going to run. We're all encouraging him to make that decision because time 
 
 is running short.
 
TAUSCHE (voice-over):  And Colorado Senator Michael Bennet on CNN became the first Senate Democrat to break with Biden publicly, Bennett calling the 
 
 state of the race very worrisome.
 
SEN. MICHAEL BENNET (D-CO):  Donald Trump is on track, I think, to win this election and maybe win it by a landslide. And the White House in the time 
 
 since that disastrous debate, I think, has done nothing to really demonstrate that they have a plan to win this election.
 
TAUSCHE (voice-over):  An adviser to the president said few in Biden's inner circle are concerned enough to pierce Biden's firm position. Only 
 
 family could do that, and only if there's hard data. The adviser telling CNN of his wife and sister, Jill and Valerie won't let him go down in 
 
 flames.
 
Since the debate, CNN's poll of polls shows Trump leading Biden by five points. The first time this year, the candidates are separated by a margin 
 
 of more than three points. And some donors planning events in Chicago and Florida say they're now up in the air. But for Biden, it's full steam ahead 
 
 for now.
 
BIDEN:  Every NATO member is committed to doing their part to keep the alliance strong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Kayla Tausche there. And Stephen Collinson joins us now from Washington. Stephen, good to have you with us. Can we hone in 
 
 on top Democrat Nancy Pelosi and what she inferred earlier on Wednesday? She suggested that the question of who's running for the Democrats in the 
 
 presidential election -- OK. Forgive me. I'm just going to let us listen into the new U.K. Prime Minister, Keir Starmer, speaking with President 
 
 Biden. Let's just listen in momentarily.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
BIDEN:  -- on the phone when you want. Give me your hand there, pal. And the best of allies in the whole world. And we really need to continue to 
 
 cooperate. And a lot we can talk about. And I think that -- to start off we can talk about what we call football, we call it soccer.
 
By the way, you know soccer has become incredibly popular here in the United States. It really is growing and -- but at any rate, there's a lot 
 
 going on. I think you're seeking closer ties in Europe. It's good for all of us, the Transatlantic Alliance. I think it's a great idea that we're 
 
 going to be working together on. I thought we had a good meeting today in NATO.
 
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER:  Very good. Very good.
 
BIDEN:  I thought we had a good meeting. And I think things are moving in the right direction. I feel really optimistic about the way things are 
 
 moving. Welcome, welcome, welcome.
 
STARMER:  Thank you very much, Mr. President. And firstly, congratulations on a really successful summit. It's been an incredibly important moment. 75 
 
 years. A bigger NATO, a stronger NATO, and a NATO with the resolve that we need. I thought the medal, the honor for Jen Stoltenberg yesterday was a 
 
 very special moment. I don't think he was expecting it.
 
BIDEN:  No, he wasn't. I owe him. He was levy. He and I -- intervened when he was going to leave and I swear to God, my knees are begging to say no, 
 
 I'm only kidding. I talked to him into staying and his wife still talked to me. She spoke to me yesterday.
 
STARMER:  I had lunch with him when he was just about to go to the Central Bank. I was saying, I'm free. And then you spoke to him. And he's still in 
 
 the job.
 
BIDEN:  No, he's done a great job. He's done a great job.
 
STARMER:  But the special relationship is so important. It's forged in difficult circumstances, endured for so long, and stronger now than ever. 
 
 So, we're very pleased to be able to come so early in the government to recommit to NATO recommit, to the special relationship, and to have the 
 
 opportunity to discuss these affairs with you is really important.
 
BIDEN:  For a figurative sense -- 
 
STARMER:  Five days in.
 
BIDEN:  I kind of see you guys as the knot tying the Transatlantic Alliance together. The closer you are with Europe, the more you're engaged, the more 
 
 -- because we know where you are, and we know where we are, in terms of our countries.
 
STARMER:  I think that's absolutely right. And now, we go into a cup final on Sunday, on top of all of that. So, I actually watched the -- I began to 
 
 watch the game with the Netherland's prime minister, but we left one on.
 
BIDEN:  Well, you guys are still talking about it?
 
STARMER:  We haven't seen each other since. So, we'll have to see.
 
BIDEN:  Well, we got a lot to talk about. Thank you all for coming out.
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. We'll leave President Biden there. Just chitchatting actually with the new U.K. Prime Minister. Stephen, I know you were 
 
 listening to that, too. And forgive me for interrupting you. And we will get back to Nancy Pelosi. But I think the end of that perhaps explained why 
 
 it was important to bring it to viewers so instantaneously the moment that we got it and the cacophony of questions. You couldn't even make out the 
 
 questions from reporters that the president was bombarded with in light of that. And all they were talking about was committing and being committed to 
 
 the special relationship there and actually congratulating the Brits on getting through to the Euro 2024 final.
 
The pressure on President Biden has eased not one jot. What did you make of that sort of off the cuff engagement there? Because we are pouring over 
 
 every interaction at this stage.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  We've got to this rather excruciating point whereby every single time the president goes on 
 
 television everyone is watching, trying to work out how well he is, his level of cognition, the sort of volume of his voice, what he says, if he's 
 
 going to make an error, this is going to be magnified many times tomorrow when the president has a solo press conference at NATO, which is shaping up 
 
 as an extraordinarily important moment, the most important since the debate as a lot of his support begins to seemingly fracture on Capitol Hill among 
 
 Democrats. But that was a very interesting moment.
 
It was also interesting, actually, that the president talked to Keir Starmer about his plan to bring Britain closer to Europe, which is a U.S. 
 
 foreign policy likes to see Britain close to Europe. And at least President Biden does. I'm not sure President Trump would if he wins in November.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
But so, he's clearly aware of what's going on in other places around the world, even if, at times, that he was quite difficult to hear.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, certainly. And certainly, difficult to hear the questions that followed. Let's go back to what we were discussing, because what we 
 
 heard in the report before that conversation was the fact that Nancy Pelosi raised the question and really of the idea that the person that's running 
 
 for the Democrats in the 2024 presidential election is not yet decided and that the decision is -- it's down to the president himself.
 
We know that, but do you think she was messaging directly to the president himself there? Because, again, she seemed to suggest that the matter isn't 
 
 over and the -- who is running isn't, isn't decided.
 
COLLINSON:  Certainly. Nancy Pelosi, although she's no longer the speaker, is still a hugely influential person in Washington. There are a lot of 
 
 people who believe that if there came a time for the leaders in Congress to go to President Biden and say that it's really -- that he ought to not run 
 
 for re-election, she would be one of the most important voices.
 
And why her comments were interesting is because the White House and the president himself and the letter to lawmakers earlier this week said, look, 
 
 this discussion is over. It's time to stop talking about the debate. I'm running for re-election, and that's the end of it. When you have Nancy 
 
 Pelosi and other senior members of Congress saying, well, no, it isn't over. That is a real clash. It's not only shows the level of concern there 
 
 now is about the possibility of the president winning November's election against Donald Trump.
 
And you heard Senator Bennet talk about the possibility of a landslide for Trump, these are splits which if Biden does run, he does manage to cling on 
 
 to his nomination, they're going to be used by Trump to say that even his own Democratic Party colleagues think he's too old to be president in the 
 
 second term. So, this is doubly damaging what's going on in the last few days in Washington.
 
CHATTERLEY:  In addition to a donor like George Clooney coming forward having helped raise $28 million a month ago now saying this is not the guy 
 
 from 2020 and we need to see a change. Nancy Pelosi seemed to put a timeline on it. She said, look. let's give it to the end of this week. If 
 
 we get through to Monday when the Republican National Convention begins, do you think it's a deal done at this stage? And as far as the Democrats are 
 
 concerned Joe's the guy.
 
COLLINSON:  Well, I was thinking that earlier in this week. And 24 hours ago, it seemed to me that this was actually going to be OK for the 
 
 president, that he'd managed to stall the momentum against him. Now, I'm not so sure. The president has scheduled an interview for Monday evening, 
 
 the first night of the Republican convention on NBC.
 
If, for example, there was a massive gaffe in that interview that doesn't go very well, that would only create more momentum against him. So, I did 
 
 think that it was going to end this week, but now, perhaps we could see this going on. And that's one reason why Biden wants to get past this. He 
 
 wants to get back to the general election because time is running short.
 
After the Republican Convention, there's going to be about a month before the Democratic Convention. And practically, if we get through another week 
 
 or two, there really isn't that much time for Democrats to somehow come together and pick another nominee.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Next test, that NATO press conference Thursday evening U.S. time. We'll see it. Stephen Collinson, for now, thank you.
 
COLLINSON:  Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, the president, meanwhile, holding talks with NATO allies, he urged them to match Russia's military production during the group summit 
 
 on Wednesday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN:  Right now, Russia is on a wartime footing with regard to defense production. They've -- they're significantly ramping up their production of 
 
 weapons, munitions, and vehicles, and they're doing it with the help of China, North Korea, and Iran. We cannot -- in my view, we cannot allow the 
 
 alliance to fall behind.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  This as some NATO members prepare to deliver the first F-16 fighter jets to Ukraine. The planes are being donated by Denmark and the 
 
 Netherlands with the support of the United States. Ukrainian President Zelenskyy says the F-16s will send a clear signal to Russia.
 
Sean Monaghan joins us now. He's a visiting fellow in the Europe, Russia, and Eurasia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
 
 Sean, good to have you with us. The practical assistance to Ukraine just one part of what's being discussed in addition to NATO stepping up the 
 
 leadership role in coordination and some kind of messaging surrounding the path for Ukraine's entry into NATO at some point in the future that doesn't 
 
 end up in squabbles like we saw a year ago. Are we on track in your mind?
 
SEAN MONAGHAN, VISITING FELLOW, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES:  Yes. Hi, Julia. Thanks for having me. I think so. I think the 
 
 summit has shown us three things for Ukraine, really, which were agreed today. One is language, two is coordination, and three is assistance. The 
 
 language, allies have agreed that a package of help for Ukraine will form a bridge to Ukraine's membership to NATO, which is irreversible.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
And there was a debate over this language before the summit. That debate has been settled. It wasn't last year in Vilnius, it has been in 
 
 Washington.
 
Number two, coordination. NATO is going to set up a command to now take the coordination of Ukrainian aid -- aid to Ukraine, which was coordinated 
 
 through a U.S. body, and that will now lie within NATO. And then finally, assistance. NATO allies agreed a longer-term assistance pledge, which will 
 
 see the levels of assistance continued at the level they gave Ukraine last year. So, that's $40 billion per year, and that goes out for a few years.
 
CHATTERLEY:  The other thing here, I think, that's important to discuss is what I mentioned briefly earlier, which was President Biden's urging of a 
 
 ramp up of industrial production to keep pace with Russia's military preparedness and production. And I think that ties to the overall 
 
 preparedness of NATO to address conflict. And that ties to the level of funding, particularly in the European pillar of NATO.
 
And we know that's been a long bugbear of the former president that Europe needs to pay its fair share and be committed to that. Do you think the 
 
 leaders walk away from this summit with greater, stronger, and greater commitment financially too, because that is determinant for the future of 
 
 NATO?
 
MONAGHAN:  Yes, I think the key word here is deterrence, deterrence and defense. So, that the second big thing aside from the Ukraine package was 
 
 NATO's own defense and deterrence. So, NATO's core purpose is to deter Russian aggression in Europe. And to do that, NATO really need to 
 
 strengthen its deterrence.
 
Particularly in Europe, you mentioned the European pillar. Well, actually, in the last few years, European allies have really drastically stepped-up 
 
 defense, defense spending. 10 years ago, at the Wales Summit, only three allies spent the 2 percent of GDP that they needed to on defense. Now, 23 
 
 of them do. So, that's a huge increase.
 
Allies committed today to increase their industrial capacity, which you mentioned, which is a really important part of this. We've seen what a 
 
 protracted war in Ukraine looks like, NATO allies now need to make sure their own industrial bases are a fit for purpose, both to support Ukraine 
 
 now and into the future, and to bolster their own defenses (INAUDIBLE).
 
CHATTERLEY:  Some of the suggestions that I read going into this NATO Summit was that it needed to be Trump proofed in some way. To your point 
 
 about what we've seen, particularly, I think, since the invasion of Ukraine by Russia is the European nation saying, OK, we do need to raise our levels 
 
 of defense spending. 2 percent of GDP was what was promised. Some even going higher than that.
 
Is that organic Trump proofing? He can't turn around and criticize those nations for not paying their fair share if they are actually doing what 
 
 they promised to do, finally.
 
MONAGHAN:  Yes, sure. I think Trump proofing almost makes the issue too small. Apologies to him. They haven't paid the bill around here. But, look, 
 
 what's happening now is different from the Cold War is that NATO allies, the main ally, U.S. is pivoting to the U.S., it's really focused on China. 
 
 And there's a war in Europe, which did not occur during the Cold War.
 
So, if it's Trump or Biden, Europe really needs to step up. And this week in Washington, European allies really committed to step up on their 
 
 defense, their deterrence and their industrial bases, as well as supporting Ukraine.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, don't fixate on one nation because the challenges are broader than that. Sean Monaghan in Washington, D.C. Sir, thank you for 
 
 your time.
 
All right. Straight ahead, football's coming home, almost, at least for Team England. The three lions are heading to the Euro 2024 finals after a 
 
 big win against the Netherlands. All the action just ahead.
 
And Amazon's green dream. The global tech giant touting a renewable energy milestone. That's says it's on track for net zero carbon emissions by 2040. 
 
 We'll hear from Amazon's chief sustainability officer about their progress.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." Red hot stocks in a red-hot summer, topping today's "Money Move." Wall Street rallying more than 1 
 
 percent with the NASDAQ and the S&amp;P hitting, yes, you hear me say this often, fresh all-time highs. The S&amp;P also finishing above the 5,600 level 
 
 for the first time ever. Big tech among the big winners yet again. And a lot riding too on Thursday's crucial U.S. inflation data. Fed Chair Jerome 
 
 Powell may be closer to cutting interest rates, but he wants to see more progress on prices first.
 
And a mixed day in Asia, the Nikkei hitting its second consecutive record high after the release of in line inflation data there.
 
And turning now to North Korea and its growing tourism industry. Now, before the pandemic, most of the nation's tourists came from China. Well, 
 
 now, they're coming from Russia, too. It reflects North Korea's changing alliances. Russia's become increasingly isolated due to its war in Ukraine. 
 
 And the Hermit Kingdom is one of its few remaining allies. Will Ripley has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The Russian and North Korean leaders' budding alliance at full speed for the 
 
 world to see Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong Un toasting a stronger partnership than ever before intent on taking down the U.S.
 
YURI FROLOV, RUSSIAN GRADUATE (PH):  My president is also a murderous dictator. So, there is no surprise.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Yuri Frolov (ph) is a Russian graduate student studying in the U.S. He was in high school in Russia in 2015, 2016 when his 
 
 parents sent him on two summer trips to North Korea. Russia, one of the only nations Pyongyang still allows in on government controlled sightseeing 
 
 trips.
 
FROLOV (PH):  We landed in Pyongyang and we spent two days in the capital. They showed us some attractions. They've showed us like their museum, they 
 
 showed us like dolphins.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Frolov says he's not surprised to see rising Russian tourism in Kim's heavily sanctioned secret state.
 
FROLOV (PH):  Russian tourists is one of the pipelines they can use to get this currency in the country. Because once I was there, it was one of their 
 
 purposes just to use the people like milk cows just to get like the most -- the money they wanted.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  He visited the same souvenir shops I did on my 19 reporting trips to North Korea.
 
RIPLEY:  You don't need to read Korean to know what this means here. The U.S. Capitol there. Symbolism says it all.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Shops overflowing with anti U.S. propaganda.
 
FROLOV (PH):  It wasn't like straightforward propaganda. It was brainwashing you like in -- through different ways.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Frolov spent two weeks at this international children's camp on North Korea's east coast. Summer fun mixed with daily 
 
 chores like cleaning giant statues of the late leaders.
 
FROLOV (PH):  Which was also very sad. It was like 6:00 in the morning and we were just called to clean some dust out from this monument.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  After morning chores, mandatory music lessons.
 
FROLOV (PH):  Sometimes the people were forced just to sing propaganda songs about like the great leaders of North Korea, Kim Il Sung, Kim Jong 
 
 Un. And basically, we were forced to speak the songs as well, but they were like in Korean, but they were translated into Russian.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  He says even the video games had an anti-American theme.
 
FROLOV (PH):  They were like driving tanks, like destroying the White House in the U.S.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  It reminds me of this exchange with two North Korean campers playing that same video game.
 
RIPLEY:  Who do you want to fight?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  To fight the sworn enemy, America.
 
RIPLEY:  What if I told you I'm an American, do you want to shoot me too?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  Yes.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  A lesson from Kim and Putin to the next generation.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. And we're on weather watch. Millions of Americans are under tornado watch. To be specific, Hurricane Beryl, now a storm, 
 
 traveling north, set to affect major cities in New York, Vermont, and Pennsylvania. Chad Myers joins us now. Chad, preparing for rain.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes, and some cooler weather. It's going to come in behind this cold front. That's the good news. We have to get 
 
 through a little bit of severe weather first. That's what happens when very warm air and another cold front will run through the northeast, even toward 
 
 D.C.
 
So, let's get right to it. Tornado watch in effect here for parts of Upstate New York all the way through Pennsylvania and severe thunderstorm 
 
 watch there for D.C. I'll get to that in a second. We don't have any tornadoes on the ground right now. Although, we did earlier today. Any of 
 
 the storms as they approach could rotate.
 
Not so much here for Washington, D.C. That cell right there, getting a little bit closer to Manassas, Virginia. And likely lightning and some wind 
 
 for you, D.C., in the whole metro area there around the beltway. It feels like 105 in D.C. right now. And boy, that cold air will really come in 
 
 handy. Tomorrow, you will only be in the 90s. So, everyone cools down at least a little bit.
 
And even here for Houston, where 1.6 million people are still without power, the heat index today is 105. Tomorrow, likely cooler than that. 
 
 Maybe only somewhere around 100 or so. Right now, it feels like 99. At this hour, in Houston, it still feels like 99. Tomorrow, it'll feel like 97. In 
 
 the sunshine, it'll feel warmer than that.
 
Talk about warmer than that, let's move out toward the West Coast where the temperatures have just been ridiculous. And I know we talk about the desert 
 
 and how hot it is, but I want you to notice this number. Portland, the old record for you yesterday was 96. You got the 104. So, you not only broke 
 
 the record, you smashed that record. And more heat for today and for tomorrow and no real end in sight. Although, it begins to cool off just a 
 
 touch.
 
It is 117 in Vegas. And I just saw an e-mail from Las Vegas Weather, it's 118 now. Just the map didn't update yet. It will next hour. Look, 118, 117. 
 
 How do you tell the difference? And even for Palm Springs, running at 120 degrees tomorrow afternoon. Another hot day in Phoenix, of course, days in 
 
 a row at this point in time and no real relief in sight.
 
Waiting for the monsoon. And a monsoon is when the humidity gets there, it doesn't make it feel any better, but at least the rain in the afternoon 
 
 cools these temperatures down. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, but for now, record-breaking temperatures once again. Chad Myers, great to have you. Thank you, sir. We'll be right back. Stay 
 
 with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more international headlines this hour. The trial of Alec Baldwin is now underway in New 
 
 Mexico. The actor has been charged with involuntary manslaughter. A cinematographer on the movie "Rust" lost her life when Baldwin fired a live 
 
 round from a prop gun. The film's armorer was convicted for her role in the incident. Baldwin could face up to a year and a half in prison if he's 
 
 found guilty.
 
Stuck in space for more than a month. The crew of Boeing's Starliner spacecraft have been in orbit much longer than the one week they were 
 
 initially expecting. The vehicle had technical issues that have delayed its return indefinitely. The two astronauts still remain in good spirits aboard 
 
 the International Space Station. They call the spacecraft truly amazing.
 
Now, to a CNN investigation into Airbnb. It's uncovered shocking evidence about hidden cameras. The company has not only failed to protect the guests 
 
 from being recorded, but it also worked to keep the complaints from going public. Kyung Lah has an exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHLOE LEBRUMENT, FOUND A HIDDEN CAMERA IN AN AIRBNB RENTAL:  It was just like holy crap, this is a camera.
 
KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  But it didn't look like a camera It was a phone charger Chloe LeBrument's fiance 
 
 had grabbed it from the bedroom wall of their Airbnb thinking it was hers.
 
LEBRUMENT:  The Airbnb host had called us on the phone and told us that we had taken a charger that did not belong to us and that we needed to return 
 
 it immediately.
 
LAH:  At what point did you think this isn't really a charger?
 
LEBRUMENT:  He became increasingly paranoid. When am I getting this charger back? I think it was like a light bulb moment that we all just went, oh, my 
 
 goodness is this a hidden camera?
 
LAH (voice-over):  Across North America police have seized thousands of images from hidden cameras at Airbnb rentals, including people's most 
 
 intimate moments.
 
LAH:  What happened when you realized that there was a camera in that charger?
 
LEBRUMENT:  It's so eerie and so creepy. Then your brain starts thinking, what did they see? What happened while we were in that room?
 
LAH (voice-over):  In a small town in Maine a couple found a hidden camera at their Airbnb. Listen to what the host told police.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, they had sex.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And you recorded that?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I took some screenshots.
 
LAH (voice-over):  The host admits he set up a camera hidden in this clock next to the bed to record unsuspecting guests.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, there are there's stuff of a couple -- of couples playing around or getting changed. So, -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  OK. So, there's pictures of people that are in intimate situations?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  OK.
 
LAH (voice-over):  It's more than just a few reported cases and Airbnb knows it's a problem. In this deposition reviewed by CNN, an Airbnb rep. 
 
 said 35,000 customer support tickets about security cameras or recording devices had been documented over a decade. Airbnb told CNN a single 
 
 complaint can involve multiple tickets. And a CNN investigation found Airbnb not only fails to protect its guests it works to keep complaints out 
 
 of the courts and away from the public.
 
LAH:  Why don't we know about this?
 
BELKIS PLATA, REPRESENTED CLIENTS WITH CLAIMS AGAINST AIRBNB:  They are trying to keep it secretive. And if everyone knew what was happening, they 
 
 would not be using their website.
 
SHANNON SCHOTT, REPRESENTED CLIENTS WITH CLAIMS AGAINST AIRBNB:  Airbnb wants to wash their hands clean when they have a host who does something 
 
 illegal or suspicious. They want to say, we are simply a website. We are not responsible for this host. We are not responsible for this property.
 
LAH (voice-over):  Florida attorneys Belkis Plata and Shannon Schott say trying to sue Airbnb if something goes wrong is extremely difficult. It 
 
 begins when you sign up on Airbnb's website and click agree to its terms of service, you're agreeing to assume all risk.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
PLATA:  The person going to rent the property agrees that if something happens while they're staying at this accommodation, they're actually 
 
 prohibited from suing Airbnb. They must go a different route, which is a binding arbitration. It's a way to strong arm someone.
 
LAH:  Is this about controlling publicity?
 
SCHOTT:  100 percent.
 
PLATA:  Absolutely.
 
LAH (voice-over):  Once they've settled a claim, Airbnb has required guests to sign confidentiality agreements, which CNN obtained, that keep some 
 
 details of legal cases private.
 
PLATA:  For you to get the check, you must sign the piece of paper, so that no one will know, this will be swept under the rug.
 
LAH (voice-over):  That's exactly what happened to this man.
 
LAH:  How did you feel signing that confidentiality agreement?
 
AIRBNB GUEST, SECRETARY RECORDED WHILE STAYING IN AN AIRBNB:  Dirty.
 
LAH (voice-over):  This man asked us not to show his face, and we've masked his voice. He and his wife were recorded during a romantic getaway.
 
AIRBNB GUEST:  They had intimate footage of my wife and I. The sexual union between two people is sacred. It felt like an extreme violation of our 
 
 marriage. It's devastating. It's a travesty.
 
LAH (voice-over):  It's a case and others, CNN found that Airbnb does not contact law enforcement once hidden cameras are discovered, even if 
 
 children are involved. Recording someone without their consent is illegal in every state.
 
AIRBNB GUEST:  If people are out sharing their stories of they were victimized through the services of Airbnb, nobody's going to want to trust 
 
 them.
 
LAH (voice-over):  This man only found out he and his wife were recorded because police called him months later after another guest found the 
 
 camera.
 
AIRBNB GUEST:  And they explained that every single room in the house had cameras.
 
LAH:  Every room?
 
AIRBNB GUEST:  The cameras were hidden in smoke detectors.
 
LAH:  Part of the challenge is that the technology has gotten so advanced. These cameras are so small that you can't even see them. In this one 
 
 bedroom, we have put multiple cameras all around and they're hidden in plain sights. This one is in the smoke alarm, an alarm clock, and even an 
 
 outlet. And some of them like this one, I can control remotely on my phone. And even livestream.
 
What would you like to tell Airbnb?
 
AIRBNB GUEST:  I'm not doing their due diligence. They're harming families and they're selfishly making a lot of money while doing that.
 
LAH (voice-over):  Airbnb declined an interview for this story but told CNN, incidents of hidden cameras are exceptionally rare. And when we do 
 
 receive an allegation we take appropriate swift action, which could include removing hosts and listings. Airbnb's trust and safety policies lead the 
 
 vacation rental industry.
 
LAH:  After CNN began reporting this story, Airbnb created a new policy that indoor cameras are not allowed inside Airbnbs at all. But as you just 
 
 saw, it has long been against Airbnb rules that cameras be allowed inside bedrooms. And as you just saw, that didn't stop some hosts from doing it 
 
 anyway.
 
Kyung Lah, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Breaking news just into CNN, number nine. A ninth House Democrat now calling on President Joe Biden to drop his re-election bid. 
 
 This time it's Congressman Earl Blumenauer of Oregon saying the president should not be the party's nominee. He gave a statement. And some of the 
 
 sentences in it actually are quite powerful. The question before the country is whether the president should continue his candidacy for re-
 
 election. This is not just about extending his presidency, but protecting democracy. It's a painful and difficult conclusion, but there's no question 
 
 in my mind that we will all be better served if the president steps aside as the Democratic nominee and manages a transition under his terms. He has 
 
 earned that right.
 
Number nine. Any further headlines, we'll bring them to you. For now, coming up for us, Amazon hitting key climate milestones years earlier than 
 
 expected, but are environmentalists convinced? Amazon's chief sustainability officer will be here to discuss.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." Call it a case of sustainability attainability. Tech giant Amazon announcing that all of its electricity 
 
 used by the firm across its operations last year was matched with renewable energy sources. The company hitting this key climate goal seven years ahead 
 
 of schedule, thanks in part to billions of dollars invested in over 500 wind and solar projects.
 
Amazon also saying it has more than 24,000 electric powered delivery vehicles on the roads across the globe as we speak. All this is important 
 
 because Amazon's units like cloud computing, fulfillment centers, and package delivery operations are extremely energy intensive, not to mention, 
 
 of course, the demand for data centers and the computing power required for technologies like generative A.I.
 
Now, not everyone, though, at the firm impressed by the company's latest data, a group, Amazon Employees for Climate Justice, argues that the firm's 
 
 renewable investments aren't directly cleaning up Amazon's operations. Joining us now is Kara Hurst, Amazon's chief sustainability officer. And 
 
 I'm glad to have you with us because you can explain what's going on, Kara.
 
What does this actually mean? The word matching, I think, stands out. How much of what you've achieved, and congratulations, is about cleaning up 
 
 your direct operations versus perhaps investing in offsets credits or clean energy that's provided perhaps to a grid?
 
KARA HURST, CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE, AMAZON:  Hi, Julia. Thank you so much for having us today. Yes, we're really excited. Of course, we've been 
 
 working so hard over, you know, really the past decade on these investments in renewable energy, and we're really excited to share that we've hit this 
 
 goal of powering our global operations with renewable energy.
 
This is something -- in 2019 we committed to the Climate Pledge, which of course is our goal to power -- really look at our net zero operations 
 
 trying to get to zero by 2040. And then, looking at renewable energy, we had set the goal to achieve 100 percent by 2030 and now, announcing that 
 
 we're there seven years early.
 
So, we have over 500 projects, as you mentioned, globally across 27 countries. And really, we've been investing in these projects, 300 of which 
 
 are actually on our own buildings across the world. So, these are -- you know, it's an effort to really green the grids across the world.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, in the process, you've become the largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy, I think, in the world, and you've done it 
 
 for the last four years running. But I sort of go back to my question, and it's this sort of criticism. And you can tell me if we -- we sort of need 
 
 to understand that you are going to have to still ramp up the use of fossil fuels, even if you're offsetting it with the investments that you're 
 
 talking about in renewable energy, at least for a time.
 
Is that what's going on? Because when I look at what needs to happen in terms of investment, in things like data centers, as you push more into 
 
 technologies like A.I., you kind of got to use all options, at least in the short-term, you have to use what's available and what you can sustain.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
HURST:  Yes, certainly. We're looking at all kinds of carbon free energy. So, we're continuing to invest in utility scale, wind and solar, but 
 
 nuclear as well. You know, this is an economy which is requiring a lot of power as we electrify our fleet. You mentioned that we have 24,000 electric 
 
 vehicles on the road. We're continuing to grow that fleet as well. So, power demands are growing. And so, we'll look at all kinds of carbon free 
 
 energy sources as we continue to grow and, you know, look at sustaining our operations.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I read in Forbes recently that ChatGPT's daily power use is equal to the use of 180,000 households on a single conversation ChatGPT 
 
 uses about 50 centiliters of water, just to give people a sense of the growing need for sort of data capacity. Can I ask what proportion of your 
 
 future data center need can be covered with renewables at this stage versus fossil fuels or nonrenewable forms?
 
HURST:  We don't break out those numbers by our data centers or not. But again, we're aiming towards net zero carbon by 2040 and we're already at 
 
 100 percent renewable across our global operations, which includes not only our data centers, but our physical grocery stores and our corporate office 
 
 buildings and our fulfillment network, which is, you know, hundreds of buildings, our data centers, you know, across the world.
 
So, we're looking again at carbon free energy sources, and we'll continue to invest really globally all over the world. We've done deals, you know, 
 
 in many places where we've been the first corporate purchaser to enable that kind of renewable investment in those regions. And as you mentioned, 
 
 we're the largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the world and have been for the last four years running.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, you're trailblazing, certainly, in that respect. I'll ask one more question on this and then we'll move on, because there are other 
 
 things to discuss. The response to that green report from these Amazon employees suggested, I'm just reading one of the quotes, that the company 
 
 is heavily investing in data center expansions fueled by West Virginian coal and Saudi Arabian oil. Is that true or false? Because I do think that 
 
 needs to be pushed back upon if that isn't the case.
 
HURST:  I haven't seen that data, but our report really is where the facts are. And so, I would point people towards the Amazon sustainability report, 
 
 which is where the credible information is. And, you know, we build our data centers with sustainable material. So, we're looking.
 
Again, one of the big things you can do with sustainability is look at how we build efficient buildings. So, we're looking at -- when you think about 
 
 across Amazon, we have such a diversified set of businesses. One of the big things we can do is send demand signals in these sectors. So, we're looking 
 
 at sustainable concrete. We're looking at building more efficiently. We're looking at steel.
 
So, it's really interesting the big demand signals you can send at our scale and think about not only powering our buildings with renewable 
 
 energy, but building more efficiently and then thinking about, you know, more efficient chips. So, we're looking at how you integrate 
 
 sustainability, not only in powering your buildings, but how you build those buildings to begin with.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and you're funding all sorts of innovation in these areas of decarbonization. I know you've got billions of dollars tied up in the 
 
 Climate Pledge Fund, and I think that's really important to reiterate at this stage as well.
 
How easy is it to connect all this solar and wind energy that you're investing in to the grid? Because ultimately, that would be the best part 
 
 and the most best use, I think, of this kind of investment that you're making. And I read, certainly in the United States, that process can take 
 
 up to five years. That needs simplifying, surely, and shortening to allow the greatest possible use of all the investment that you're putting into 
 
 this. How can we facilitate and get that done quicker?
 
HURST:  Yes, it's a great point. I mean, we're not a utility. So, we certainly work in these public-private partnerships. And one of the things 
 
 that we want to do, again, is send those demand signals so that we can green grids.
 
We work in partnership -- public-private partnerships, work with groups like Clean Energy Buyers Alliance, and we have an emissions first 
 
 partnership where we really work with other corporations. We work in public-private partnerships, with governments to advocate that we need grid 
 
 modernization, and we need to see more green energy on the grids where we operate. And we want that green energy to be available to the communities 
 
 where we are so that everyone can have access to that green energy.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, this is the key, you're not a utility, but you have such power that you can send that signal to certainly to regulators and 
 
 governments to say, come on, guys, let's get it connected and we can help more people.
 
Very quickly E.V.s, because I was looking through the report as well. You delivered 680 million packages using over 24,000 electric vehicles. Kara, 
 
 talk to me about the ramp up in that, particularly at a time perhaps where people are questioning the utility, the cost certainly at a consumer level. 
 
 You guys are full speed ahead on doing this using E.V. vehicles as well.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
HURST:  Yes, this is another exciting area where we can use our scale to say this is really something we think this transition should happen. And 
 
 so, we operate one of the largest fulfillment and transportation networks in the world. And putting that signal out there that we think this 
 
 transition has to happen and has to happen fast.
 
So, 24,000 electric vehicles around the world already on the road. We're continuing to add more every single year from multiple different partners 
 
 that we work with. We have e-bikes, we have electric vehicles, we have middle mile trucks and one of the largest fleets that we operate there as 
 
 well. We're part of the hydrogen economy. So, we are really looking at multiple different technologies. We're looking at electrification of fleet. 
 
 We're experimenting. We're pushing forward. We also operate one of the largest charging infrastructure networks in the world.
 
So, we really are trying to push and make this available and send that signal working with other. We also have a partnership with C40, with mayors 
 
 around the world, looking to partner with cities who want to transform that infrastructure for their cities to hope to bring electrification into 
 
 places where we operate.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, flying a green flag. Certainly. Kara, great to chat to you. Thank you. Kara Hurst, Amazon's chief sustainability officer there.
 
All right. Still ahead, the three lions, roar. England set to take on Spain in the Euro 2024 finals after a critical win against the Netherlands.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back. England one step closer to bringing it home. Thanks to a 2-1 win over the Netherlands in the Euro semifinals. Ollie 
 
 Watkins scored a brilliant game winning goal in the 90th minute. England and Spain will meet in the final on Sunday in Berlin. Patrick Snell, I'm 
 
 sure, was watching it, even President Biden said it was good news. Patrick. Wow.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Football's coming home. It's coming up. Is it too early to sing that yet? Yes, it is, because England have still got 
 
 to get past Spain, Julia, in what should be a terrific final on Sunday at the Olympia Stadium in Berlin.
 
But first things first, great achievement by England's men's team getting past Holland. Holland actually took the lead. This is a stunning goal there 
 
 from Charlie Seaman, flies past your Jordan Pickford. No way Pickford was keeping that out. That was in the eighth minute. England then get a bit of 
 
 controversy here. We'll get into that a bit later. The penalty is converted though by Harry Kane. It's a wonderful penalty. 1-1 on 18 minutes.
 
This one going to the very last minute of the match. It's a wonderful play. England subs combining brilliantly and it's Ollie Watkins, the young Aston 
 
 Villa player, dream come true for him. Look at the joy. Maybe even a shock there on his face. He can't believe it.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
England hold on for a really important 2-1 victory there at Dortmund's Westfalenstadion. What a moment for English football.
 
Now, this is why the Dutch were left very frustrated. Let's go back to the. 18-minute mark there. Kane gets his shot away, but there's a challenge 
 
 coming in on him from the Dutch player Denzel Dumfries there. You can see there is contact. It goes to VAR review and they decide penalty given the 
 
 Dutch will feel very hard done by because the ball was in the air and a lot of people in the game feel that that was a tough decision that went against 
 
 the Dutch.
 
But look, not England's problem. They convert from the penalty spot and they are through to the final, Julia, where they'll play Spain's La Roja. 
 
 Spain going for a fourth European crown. They're going to be very tough to beat. I'll tell you on Sunday in the German capital. And England looking to 
 
 emulate the women's team who are the reigning European champions as well.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Dare we dream, Patrick. I tell you what, if we win, I'll sing with you -- 
 
SNELL:  OK.
 
CHATTERLEY:  -- on Monday.
 
SNELL:  Deal.
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's a date. Patrick, thank you.
 
And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END