Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: New Polls Show Presidential Race between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump Extremely Close; Rep. Mikie Sherrill (D-NJ) Interviewed on Upcoming Debate between Presidential Candidates Kamala Harris and Donald Trump. Manhunt for Kentucky Shooting Suspect Enters Third Day; School Districts Cancel Classes Monday Due to Fire, Heat Threats, Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired September 09, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
ARTHUR BUSCH, FORMER PROSECUTING ATTORNEY FOR GENESEE COUNTY, MICHIGAN:  -- a great job with covering these stories. In the old days, 1991, there wasn't a single helicopter over Hamady High School in Mt. Morris township in Flint. We also have more lethality involved. So the guns themselves are causing more -- are causing more deaths. So my first gun case in 91, it was a shotgun, a sawed-off shotguns. Today, they're AR-15s and AK-47s. 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes, so different now.
 
BUSCH:  So the number of people hurt is enormously different.
 
BOLDUAN:  And the lethality of these guys, we see it's enormously different, that's right. It's good to see you, Arthur. Thank you.
 
BUSCH:  I may just --  
 
BOLDUAN:  Arthur, thank you so much. Arthur Busch.
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts now.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  A new clear message from the presidential campaign, no clear leader. The new polls out showing Kamala Harris, Donald Trump, locked in as tight of a race as it can be. And about to face off on the debate stage. New reporting today on how they're preparing for all of it. 
 
Schools are closed across central Kentucky, a major manhunt now stretching into the third day for a man police consider armed and dangerous after they say he shot five people on a busy highway. 
 
And New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu to the rescue, helping a man who started choking during a lobster roll eating contest this weekend. 
 
I'm Sara Sidner with Kate Bolduan and John Berman. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
BOLDUAN:  One thing that has been proven this election cycle is that debates matter. And the country is now one day away from the next major presidential campaign moment, the second general election debate of this cycle, the first time Kamala Harris and Donald Trump will face off. 
 
The candidates preparing differently. Harris has been hunkered down at a Pittsburgh hotel where she's been reading up on Trump. Aides say she's even been studying Trump's six previous debates. Donald Trump for his part, his approach this time, similar to what you have heard and seen in the past. No formal prep, if you will, and working hard to work the refs even before he takes the stage. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Oh, they're waiting for the debate. You know, if I destroy her in the debate, they'll say Trump suffered a humiliating defeat today, no matter what.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN:  All now set against a new backdrop, a new "New York Times"- Sienna College poll showing that the race remains incredibly close. No clear leader in this new national survey that you can see right there. 
 
Let's bring in CNN anchor and chief political correspondent Dana Bash, who understands debate prep and the debate stage very well, and how consequential debates can be. But let's first start with these polls. It's right next to you in the box. What is your big takeaway in this new national survey, Dana? 
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  That what we have been seeing is now certainly underscored. It's anybody's race to win. It's anybody's race to lose. And of course, this is the national snapshot, but it is also, perhaps more importantly, as we are 57 days away from the election, as you know better than I, Kate, it's about the battleground states. And we're seeing very similar dynamics in pretty much all of those that our must-win for both of them, particularly in the commonwealth of Pennsylvania. So it is razor, razor thin.
 
BOLDUAN:  And both the candidates are promising to be the change agent, if you will, in different ways. And we've heard Kamala Harris saying, we're not going -- not going back. That's been to mantra -- the mantra we've heard from her. In this poll, though it shows likely voters are much more likely to say Donald Trump actually represents major change, though. What do you think Kamala Harris, I don't know, needs to do or can do if the campaign wants to change that perception? 
 
BASH:  Isn't that -- that was one of the fascinating parts of this poll, because it is about perception. We have been seeing this election as basically, well, certainly when Joe Biden was running, two incumbents, and running against each other, and now it's a former incumbent and somebody who is in the incumbent administration. And the way I look at those numbers about Trump representing change, it appears to be about the number one issue for voters, which is the fact that there is a crisis in affordability in America. And the change that they see is a change from the Biden administration, whether it's right or wrong, this is what happens when somebody is in the White House. You get the blame, you get the props for the economy. [08:05:00]
 
And right now, even though we've disgust it a lot, that there are a lot of economic indicators that are fantastic, that doesn't matter to people when they're having trouble buying their groceries and they're having trouble paying their rent or trying to start a family and buy a new home and things like that. 
 
And that is, I believe, where those numbers come in, and those are really critical to driving votes. I mean, that's kind of the whole ballgame. And I believe both campaigns understand that.
 
BOLDUAN:  We also continue to see that voters say that they want to know more about the policy positions of Kamala Harris. And I'm starting to wonder if the Harris campaign is just OK with that being kind of the sentiment from voters, though. 
 
BASH:  Maybe, although our terrific colleague, Eva McKend, noticed that the Harris campaign added a tab on their website which puts a bit more of meat on the bone when it comes to her policy positions. It hadn't been there before for lots of reasons, not the least of which is she's a relatively new candidate even though were so late in the game.
 
But you know, Kate, you might be onto something, because there is a school of thought that is the policy positions on the basics, like sort of the foundational policy positions, that matters. But beyond that people, want to feel that the leader is going to take the country in the right direction or be told that the opponent is going to take the country in the wrong direction. People want to feel, with regard to these two candidates, maybe, Donald Trump sees me, he gets my fears, he gets my anger, and Kamala Harris sees me, she gets my fear, but maybe she gets my hope. 
 
And there's a lot to that. And I'm not saying that these policy proposals don't matter because people do want to have a sense of things. But there is a reason why that's a very intense talking point from the Republican side, and why they're taking it seriously, but they're also focusing on other voter driven issues and voter driven sentiments inside the Harris campaign.
 
BOLDUAN:  And much more to come, a big debate ahead for us tomorrow. And also, I'm going to say, most importantly for our viewers right now is what you see on your screen right there. Dana has a new book out. I'm just beginning to read it, so I can't wait to get through it. "America's Deadliest Election, The Cautionary Tale --
 
BASH:  And it's not about 2020.
 
BOLDUAN:  Exactly. It's not about 2020, "The Cautionary Tale of the Most Violent Election in American History." How you find time to do it continues to amaze me, but congratulations, Dana. Thank you so much.
 
BASH:  I have a terrific co-author. Thank you. 
 
BOLDUAN:  The secret to all life's success. John? (LAUGHTER)
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  I am deep into the book right now, and I have to tell you, it is wonderful. It's not a competition if you're saying that I've read a little more than you have. And it's really good so far.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BERMAN:  With us now, Congresswoman Mikie Sherrill, a Democrat from New Jersey. Thank you so much from saving us from this discussion we've been having right here. 
 
Look, I get the sense that Democrats, who have been through a lot this summer, they wake up, they run to the newspapers or the Internet and they checked the polls. They see something like "The New York Times" poll, you know, basically no clear leader, and they get really nervous. How do you feel heading into tomorrow's big debate? 
 
REP. MIKIE SHERRILL, (D-NJ):  You know, I think that Harris team has to be aware as they head into tomorrow's debate that Trump has done this seven times now, that he has a history of making a sort of mockery of this platform. It's a tough platform to hold someone accountable when you're trying to get to the issues. And he has a history of not telling the truth about different positions. So I'm sure she's aware of that and is thinking about how as somebody who wants to get her positions out there, who wants to have a thoughtful discussion about the future of this country, how she is going to handle that. 
 
And I think that's on everyone's mind, how do you make sure that as you're trying to reassure the American people, you're having a thoughtful debate.
 
BERMAN:  It's interesting, because there's an article in "The Atlantic" that's out just now, and you are mentioned in it, and it has to do with the so-called frontline Democrats, largely veterans who have been serving for some time. And in it, you talk about the GSD philosophy of politics and governing, get stuff done. How important is it -- although sometimes it's not "stuff", it's another S-word -- how important is it for Harris --
 
(INAUDIBLE)
 
BERMAN:  How important is it for her to focus on that on the debate stage? 
 
SHERRILL:  You know, I think what people are looking for as they want to see the candidates is certainly the fact that they are going to get stuff done. 
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
But what stuff? What are they focused on? Are they focused on the things that are important to the American people? Are they going to make sure that they are addressing costs, addressing housing prices, looking to the future? What does the future look like for your family? And as you hear your candidate talk about it, is that what you want to hear? 
 
And sorry, there's my dog.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SHERRILL:  Trying to trying to get in here. But that's what people want to hear is what you're going to do for the country.
 
BERMAN:  The dog wants to hear about when is breakfast. 
 
SHERRILL:  Yes, the dog wants to know. 
 
BERMAN:  Kamala Harris, her 2019 positions, Nate Silver has got a big write-up out in the last 24 hours when he says that the positions she ended up taking on the debate stage when she was running for president four years ago our haunting her in this election, whether it's on Medicare for all, on fracking, on the police, things like that have become an issue for her now that she can't escape. How do you feel about that? 
 
SHERRILL:  You know, I think that the American people should look at the record of Kamala Harris. She has a long record as a prosecutor, as somebody who has been compassionate about the issues that affect American families. I've certainly seen her all around the globe as she talks passionately about American values and where this country can go, and the opportunity that this country has provided to her and to her family. These are the things that I want to hear more about, that I love hearing, because quite frankly, it reflects my vision for this country, this idea that when we come together, when we double down on innovation and education and providing opportunity for everyone here, when we address those things that are holding people back, like grocery prices and housing prices, help people get ahead, that's the kind of country that I grew up in. That's the kind of country I want to see for my kids. 
 
BERMAN:  Donald Trump in the run-up to this debate over the weekend, he talked about pardoning January 6th rioters again. And he also posted on his social media account a threat to election workers and lawyers and political leaders and said, when I win those people that cheated will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. And this same post includes lies about the 2020 election as well. How important is it to focus on something like this? And what does it tell you about Donald Trump's mindset heading into the debate? 
 
SHERRILL:  It's puzzling that he keeps doubling down on this kind of rhetoric because it's so incredibly unpopular. In fact, they were going to have a rally here in Bedminster, New Jersey, a gala for January 6th insurrectionists that they took down, I think because of how unpopular that was. The fact that they are trying to attack the election system, continuing to -- continuing on with those attacks, that they're now threatening the very people that are going to enable our elections across the country, is really, to me just disqualifying for anyone who wants to serve in this country. And so to see Trump continuing this line of attack, these threats,
 
 like you would see out of Putin or a strongman, it's no wonder he admires those people, because that is what he wants to be, is somebody who takes down a Democratic election system and serves for as long as he wants. And that's what's at stake here in this election. 
 
But I think what we have to focus on, because people understand that already, they know that about Trump. So now we have to focus on what does the future look like under Kamala Harris? What can American families expect? How do they see themselves in an administration that she runs? And I think that's going to be important in the final days of this election colorful.
 
BERMAN:  Congresswoman Mikie Sherrill, great to see you this morning. Thanks so much for being with us. Sara?
 
SIDNER:  We'll break down the numbers on why Pennsylvania, the keystone state, could be the absolute key to winning the White House. 
 
And this morning, a manhunt underway for a suspect accused of shooting five people were simply traveling down a busy highway in what is being called a planned attack. 
 
And California schools canceled classes this morning because of this intense wildfire. We'll talk all about it coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:18:57]  
 
SIDNER: This is a terrifying story.  
 
This morning, law enforcement in Kentucky have just resumed the intense search for a suspect who opened fire on an interstate over the weekend.  
 
Police say Joseph Couch shot at 12 vehicles Saturday injuring five people. It happened near Interstate 75, just south of Lexington. The challenge police say is that this is a densely wooded area as they are on this hunt.  
 
CNN chief law enforcement and intelligence analyst, John Miller joining me now.  
 
This is truly terrifying. I think many of us are old enough to remember what happened with the so-called DC snipers. What is the latest on the search? What makes this so difficult?  
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: So the latest on the search is -- that just started again, about 15 minutes ago. They suspended overnight because of tactical considerations, which is if you have a sniper who has demonstrated some marksmanship and you're going into the dark in a wooded area where he may have the position of advantage, that was a risk they decided not to take.  In the meantime, they've been using the technology they have -- a
 
 couple of drones, thermal imaging. The FBI is going to back that up with more equipment that they've used in similar manhunts.  
 
We remember on this broadcast, because we were there together, the hunt for Daniel Cavalcante when he escaped from the jail outside of Pennsylvania and hid in a similar wooded area for weeks.  
 <br>[08:20:18]  
 
So it is very challenging for police to go into that kind terrain when it is so wide and the person has a head-start.  
 
SIDNER: How do they get through it? What kind of technologies might they employ as they're trying to do this, knowing that he had some sort of capabilities, obviously with his weapon, he could be hiding anywhere.  
 
MILLER: Well, and that's the problem. It is not just the type of terrain, but it is the amount of terrain and the head start he has, so this is what we know, which is his car was dumped at the edge of the woods. The rifle was found by the edge of the highway, at the top of what would have been about a 30-foot cliff looking down on where the cars were passing.  
 
And Saturday, he purchased allegedly the AR-15 rifle and a thousand rounds of ammunition. So going by that, he should have plenty left. The rifle was found left behind, but we don't know what the other weapons may be.  
 
He's got a background of four years in the National Guard, so clearly, he is trained. So, it is going to be a challenging situation and the technology to get to the core of your question is a challenge here because in an urban manhunt, you've got cell phone tracking, you've got access to the city cameras, you've got access to video canvases. There is a lot you can recreate.  
 
In the woods, when you're using those drones and thermal imaging, your first enemy is the canopy, which is you can't see through the trees and your second enemy is the animals because they send a heat signature that looks almost the same as a person moving through, especially at night.  
 
SIDNER: It is a terrifying scenario. Just anyone who goes anywhere on a highway when you start thinking about what can happen, it is most a miracle that nobody was actually killed, although five people are injured.  
 
We will be checking in with you because I know the manhunt just started what -- 15 minutes ago as you've just reported to see if there are any updates later on the show. Appreciate it.  
 
MILLER: Thanks.  
 
SIDNER: John.  BERMAN: All right, wildfires exploding overnight, zero percent
 
 contained, thousands forced to evacuate. And this morning, a man is on the run accused of throwing scalding coffee on a baby.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:26:43]  
 
BOLDUAN: Several California school districts are closed this morning all because of this -- what you're seeing here -- multiple wildfires are forcing mandatory evacuations. The Line Fire is currently zero percent contained, already has burned more than 20,000 acres.  
 
The fire is so intense that they are creating their own weather pattern. This photo is showing lightning. Yes. You have seen lightning before, but that is lightning coming from storm clouds formed by the burning fires.  
 
CNN's Camila Bernal is in California for us this morning. What's the very latest that you're seeing -- Camila.  
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Kate.  
 
So just so many challenges for firefighters. They say its multiple factors that are actually working against them. So what you get is thousands and thousands of acres of the national forest here that look like this. It is destroyed.  
 
And officials saying that these factors include the weather. We've seen triple digits for the last few days, and it is not only the triple digits throughout the day, but lows in the 80s. So that has been extremely challenging for firefighters.  
 
It has been physically draining for them and they need to take those rests and you mentioned that weather pattern that the fire is forming causing that thunderstorm. So yes, it brought some rain, but it also brought that lightning and lightening can start new fires.  
 
In addition to that, you have the wind from that storm and fire officials saying that that wind is so unpredictable and moving those claims in random directions, but they do not even know where to station there crews throughout the fire.  
 
So what they have been doing is placing a lot of those firefighter teams near homes so that they are ready to protect those homes if the fire comes closer to them.  
 
They have been successful. No homes have been destroyed despite the fact that thousands are under evacuation warnings or orders. So officials really telling people to have their stuff packed and ready to go in case they do need to leave at a moment's notice.  
 
The terrain here is also very difficult for these firefighters. They either have to be flown into some of these mountains or they have to walk in and it has not been easy for them.  
 
It has also been challenging in terms of getting aircraft up in the sky because of the smoke in this area.  
 
So, throughout the weekend, there were a lot of times where they could not get the helicopters up in the air. We did see some of that activity yesterday and some of those water drops. But it has again, just been challenging. I keep saying that over and over again, because that is what we are hearing from fire officials.  
 
And then the other thing that they have told me is that they were able to get more resources. So yesterday we had about 600 firefighters and personnel. This morning, we are now waking up with about 1,800 of them.  
 
So you are seeing the increase in those resources because of the state of emergency that was declared by the governor. So, there is some hope there, optimistic, but they are still saying there is so much to be done here because were still at zero percent containment since this fire started on Thursday.  
 
So we are hoping to see some improvements, but at the moment, it is still at zero percent -- Kate.  
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. Camila Bernal, thank you so much -- Sara.  
 
SIDNER: All right, thank you.  
 
Upsetting new details on the message the Georgia school shooter sent to his model the morning of the deadly attack and how she tried to warn the school.  
 
And why more men in conservative states are now joining the fight for reproductive rights ahead of the election. We will talk to one of those men ahead.  
 <br>[08:30:15]  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)