Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Frigid Temps Raise Turnout Fears In First Vote Of '24 Race; Hamas Releases Video Of Three Israeli Hostages In Captivity; Number Of People Injured In Two Incidents In Ra'anana, Israel. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired January 15, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: -- and now new scoop this morning from my colleague at the White House, Priscilla Alvarez, about this season desist order by DHS to the State of Texas, asking them, and hear this, not just to give Border Patrol access to that park, to the area that you see behind me and to miles of river, but to actual federal land. 
 
And I want to leave you with a statement because it's very telling in this letter. It says "Some of the barriers placed by Texas and the armed soldiers deployed by Texas are on federal land. Specifically, Texas National Guard is blocking entrances through federally owned and maintained border barriers with armed soldiers." And Poppy and Phil, the DHS has given Texas until Wednesday to give Border Patrol access. Back to you guys. 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, HOST, "CNN THIS MORNING": All right. Rosa Flores, thank you. And CNN This Morning continues right now.
 
MAX FOSTER, HOST, "CNN NEWSROOM": Hello, and welcome to CNN Newsroom. I'm Max Foster in London. Just ahead, Iowans preparing to cast their votes to choose a Republican presidential candidate. We will discuss how the Iowa caucuses could shape the 2024 U.S. presidential election. Then, families of three Israeli hostages held in Gaza waiting for any new information about their fate after Hamas releases a video of them in captivity. Plus, Taiwan loses a "diplomatic ally" to China just days after its presidential election. We'll be live in Beijing for the latest on that.
 
Beginning then with the first contest of the 2024 U.S. presidential race, the Iowa caucuses. But, the headline as Iowans prepare to vote isn't about the candidates or even the issues. It's all about this cold weather. Wind chill temperatures could be as low as minus 37 degrees Celsius, making this the coldest caucus on record, and raising big questions about turnout as well. 
 
CNN's Alayna Treene is in Iowa's city Des Moines. I think a lot of the Trump supporters are seen as much more sort of passionate as it were, more likely to go out. But, what's his message heading into today?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Right. Well, Max, Donald Trump's closing arguments to Iowans this weekend has really been trying to urge them not to get complacent. We saw him post as well on Truth Social yesterday, one of his social media sites, warning them against falling for dirty tricks, and really trying to give them as much information as possible about where, when and how to caucus. And that has really been his message for the past several weeks now. But, it's become even more urgent because of the dangerously cold temperatures here in Iowa today. 
 
Now, I know from my conversations, just talking to Donald Trump's team, that they are concerned about potential turnout heading to the caucuses tonight, and part of that is because a major part of their ground game strategy here in the state has been to try and turn out as many voters as possible. And when you have weather really as bad as it is here in Iowa, negative 15 degrees right now here in Des Moines, it could potentially deter some people from coming out. 
 
But, the other part of that warning is that Donald Trump is doing so well in the polls. He has a very commanding lead over his other rivals. And his team also argues that they are worried that some people may see his lead and think, Trump has this locked down. He has Iowa in the bag. We don't need to turn out for him. And that really has been his message to be, don't do that. I need you to come out. And he has also really been ramping up his language as well, attacking his rival Nikki Haley, the former South Carolina Governor. He has really been telling Iowans, we need to have a great turnout in Iowa today to send a message to New Hampshire, which is the next primary. Max. 
 
FOSTER: Alayna in Iowa, it's going to be a fascinating night. Thank you so much. 
 
Now to the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza, though, Hamas released a video on Sunday showing three Israeli hostages in captivity in Gaza. CNN can't verify when or where the clips were filmed. We're not showing the actual video because the hostages were likely speaking under duress. But, the 32nd tape shows each of them saying the name, age and place of residence whilst looking directly into the camera. It's now been 100 days since the war with Hamas began. Crowds gathered in Tel Aviv on Sunday for what's being called the 100 days of hell. It's a rally held in Hostages Square, as it's become known now. 
 
CNN's Nic Robertson in Tel Aviv joins us now with the latest developments. A very powerful event there yesterday.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: And a huge and big turnout, more than 100,000 people turned out as the 24-hour gathering of people for music, for speeches by politicians, for speeches by families of hostage members, 100 days of hell, and the reason that they were there was because they wanted to send a very clear and very strong message to the government here that the government must do more to get the hostages freed, must prioritize getting the hostages freed. 
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
A couple of the family members spoke to CNN, and this is what they said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ZIV BRASLAVSKI, BROTHER OF ISRAELI HOSTAGE ROM BRASLAVSKI: We hope we come back. We wish he came back. Every day, every night, every time, if every hour, every minute that passed, it's harder. 
 
MEIRAV LESHEM GONEN, MOTHER OF ISRAELI HOSTAGE ROMI GONEN: This was crime against humanity, not crimes against Israel. I want to say to the leaders of the world, this is your responsibility to make sure they are coming back home, all 136 people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERTSON: Now, about that video that Hamas released showing Noa Argamani, Yossi Sharabi, Itai Svirsky, clearly very troubling and worrying for their families. These sorts of things in the past had been discussed by the government officials, as you know, a psychological attack on the families of hostages, trying to undermine their positions. Of course, it is very, very stressful for those families. And Hamas has said it will release more information about these three hostages today. In the past, it has happened that Hamas has done this sort of thing before and then announced that these -- the hostages that they've mentioned have died. It's not clear that they'll do that this time. But, obviously, families will brace for the worst and hope for the best. And it's a psychological torture for them, as the government describes.
 
FOSTER: OK. Nic Robertson, thank you for bringing us that. 
 
We've just actually had some news in that two separate incidents in the central Israeli city of Ra'anana that have left a number of people injured. That's according to the Israel medical emergency service. The service has said the -- well, according to the initial reports, at least, the incidents are believed to have been stabbing and car ramming attacks, 14 people being treated. We're watching that closely and trying to get a bit more information for you. 
 
Now, the UK expected to send some 20,000 military personnel to take part in one of NATO's largest deployments since the end of the Cold War. Britain's Defense Minister set to announce some plans around that today. And the deployment is expected to include military forces from 30 other NATO countries, plus Sweden, which is about to join. 
 
Clare joins us to discuss this. I mean, it's an epic event this, isn't it? I mean, what do you think it says about NATO and their stance, and what do you think the reaction will be in Russia?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So, NATO and now the UK, the Defense Secretary speaking this morning, essentially saying this is the new era in collective defense. That's what came out of the Vilnius summit last year, and they're trying to put that into action now with what NATO says will be the biggest collective defense exercise since the Cold War. 
 
So, in total, NATO has said some 40,000 troops will be involved. The UK is deploying 16,000 land troops, which be in Europe between February and June. So, it's pretty long exercise. There will also be more than 2,000 sailors from the UK. So, a big contribution in the UK. Overall, this as part of NATO beefing up its deterrent, trying to spur countries to spend more, to try to show Russia that it is not being cowed by what's still happening in Ukraine, although that is of course a sign in itself perhaps that the deterrent didn't work in the first place. 
 
So, NATO is ushering in this new era. As for the UK, it wants to show leadership. This is part of the division that Grant Shapps laid out today. He says this has now gone from a post-war era at the end of the Cold War to a pre-war era. And this is of course not just about Ukraine, right? The UK is now heavily involved in what's going on in the Red Sea, partnered with the U.S. and with their strikes on Yemen last week. And Grant Shapps was pressed several times on the issue of whether they were going to stop there, given that we've seen that the Houthis themselves have not stopped. This is what he had to say about that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GRANT SHAPPS, BRITISH DEFENSE SECRETARY: We intended it as a single action and we will now monitor very carefully to see what they do next, how they respond, and we will see from there. I can't predict the future for you. I can say that it is unacceptable to have a major sea passage in international waters with ships which have nothing to do with the Israel-Gaza conflict in most cases. 50 nations have been -- had their ships attacked or had interest in ships that were attacked. That cannot continue.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: One thing that particularly was striking about this speech is that he spelled it out and he said this is not just a message for the Houthis. This is a message for Iran, who are believed to be obviously the biggest backer behind them, saying that this is obviously not acceptable. And he obviously said, we'll wait and see how this develops, not ruling out future action.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
FOSTER: In terms of that exercise, they've happened before. Haven't they? We can predict how Russia will respond. But, do you think they'll be concerned by it?
 
SEBASTIAN: I mean, I think they are always concerned, in the almost two decades that I've been covering Russia, always concerned about NATO expansion, the specter of NATO, and particularly confrontation with the U.S. is really the one central element of Russia's foreign policy at the moment. So, they will be watching very closely. They'll be watching for new technology and new types of weaponry. And we will hear very likely the usual statements around NATO expansion, how that sort of broke the promise, which is what Putin has said multiple times, including when justifying the war in Ukraine, that broke the promise to Russia. 
 
But, I think Russia has got elections coming up in March. It's got some of its own internal issues with the economy to deal with. So, they'll have one eye on what's going on, but I don't think it changes its calculus now, especially that we've seen Finland join and Sweden potentially joining soon.
 
FOSTER: OK. Clare, thank you so much. 
 
China expressing what is called deep dissatisfaction and strong opposition to countries congratulating Taiwan on its presidential election. Earlier, Beijing said anyone in the international community who violates the One China principle is interfering in China's internal affairs. Over the weekend, Taiwan's ruling party secured an historic third consecutive presidential term. Meanwhile, the Pacific island nation of Nauru has said it's severing diplomatic ties with Taiwan. 
 
And CNN's Marc Stewart joins us live in Beijing, because Taiwan cutting ties with Nauru, some people suggesting that could be a thing to look out for the future could other countries go the same way.
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Indeed, Max. If you look at China's toolbox to make a point, it is diplomatic, as we are seeing in this case. It certainly has military options such as drills that we have seen before. And then, it also could make economic moves to make things difficult in Taiwan. So, this diplomatic move to have Nauru certainly falls within the Chinese playbook. But, China also has to make this balance between both rhetoric and reality. Even if it wants to do something bold to say to Taiwan, you are part of us, it has to be careful, because right now China is dealing with some other obstacles in addition to Taiwan. 
 
First of all, it's got a domestic economy that is very slow growing. Number two, it's kind of been on the up and up with the United States as far as how its relationship has been going. We saw success or apparent success during the APEC summit between Xi Jinping and President Biden talking about perhaps more American economic involvement. And then number three on this list is that China has to deal with some internal problems of its own, or at least some hiccups. We have seen in recent months, Xi Jinping basically shake up his top leadership. And these are unsettling moment that the Chinese government is going to have to deal with, in addition to Taiwan. 
 
So, as far as what's next, when could we perhaps see something even more substantial from Taiwan other than these pointed statements and these condemnations toward governments that have shown their congratulations? Perhaps this spring. This is when the President-elect will be inaugurated, Max. Many analysts feel it's around then. That would be the timetable that we could perhaps see something more substantial from China to show its strength over Taiwan.
 
FOSTER: OK. Marc, thank you so much for bringing us that. 
 
Still to come, how important is Iowa? The first votes of the 2024 election season are about to be cast. We'll take a closer look at the race.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: In U.S. politics, there is an old saying, there are only three tickets out of Iowa. In other words, Iowa narrows the field of presidential contenders. But, it's possible there could only be one ticket this year. That's what some people are saying. If Donald Trump steam rolls the entire Republican field, would his march to the GOP nomination be unstoppable? What seems more likely is that either Nikki Haley or Ron DeSantis will emerge as the main alternative to Trump, especially if Haley beats DeSantis, despite the Florida governor investing so much time and money in Iowa. 
 
Let's bring us in CNN's National Politics Correspondent Eva McKend for some analysis on this, because, I mean, that's kind of the point from DeSantis' point of view, isn't it? He has invested so much in Iowa. If he doesn't get ahead of Haley, some people are suggesting that's the end for him.
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER: It could be. Listen, both of them, Nikki Haley, Ron DeSantis, have focused so heavily on this electability argument in the closing weeks that they would both be a better matchup for President Biden, come the fall. In recent weeks, Governor DeSantis has said that the former President is running on his personal issues. Haley is running on her donors' issues, and that he is running on the people's issues. But, yes, Governor DeSantis has invested heavily in Iowa. He has sort of gone all in on this state. Him and his associated PAC, they have an extensive ground game operation. And they are saying that it is that operation that is really going to allow them to withstand some of the challenges that we have right now with these bitterly cold temperatures. It is sub-zero temperatures in Des Moines, Iowa -- or throughout the state of Iowa right now, Max.
 
FOSTER: Yeah, and some people suggesting that helps Trump because his supporters are so passionate. They'll make their way through that snow. But, at the same time, it's always difficult, isn't it, if you're so far ahead in the field that perhaps people don't vote because they assume they're going to win.
 
MCKEND: Yeah. That's why Trump was telling his backers, basically, don't take anything for granted. If he has a commanding victory tonight, above 50 percent, it's going to be hard perhaps for any of his opponents to catch up. And that is what he is really relying on, to sort of blunt the momentum of Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis, especially as we go into New Hampshire where Haley is far more competitive. There is a strong base of Democrats and independents in that state. And many of them indicate they are going to support her. You listen to folks there and they tell you that they voted for Trump in 2016, Biden in 2020, are now looking for a new candidate entirely in Nikki Haley. So, if Trump can sort of stop this train early, that seems to be what his goal is, Max.
 
FOSTER: It's going to be a fascinating evening in Des Moines, Iowa. Thank you so much indeed. 
 
Now, CNN's special coverage of the 2024 Iowa caucuses starts today at 4 p.m. Eastern Time. That's 9 p.m. here in London, right here on CNN. Still to come, Alexey Navalny, the imprisoned critic of Vladimir
 
 Putin, describes life in a Russian prison where he says he is given boiling water to drink. More on that when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Lava from a volcano in southwestern Iceland is flowing into a nearby fishing town, setting houses ablaze. It's the second eruption to hit the area in less than a month. Many residents evacuated Grindavik back in November. They still haven't returned. But, the town is now under new evacuation orders, obviously, and around 60 households have left so far. Iceland's civil protection agency says there is no danger to human life. 
 
Now, in Germany, farmers are capping off a week of protests with a show of solidarity in Berlin. Some 10,000 farmers in their tractors are holding a demonstration at the Brandenburg Gate. Other demonstrations are planned across the country as well. The farmers are protesting over planned subsidy cuts. 
 
It seems prison life won't be getting any better for Alexey Navalny after the Russian Supreme Court rejected his claims against the Justice Ministry late last week, according to his spokesperson. The jailed Kremlin critic was fighting for greater access to religious material in a Siberian penal colony where he is being held. He also described the harsh freezing conditions there. 
 
CNN's Matthew Chance gives us an inside look at the facility known as the "Polar Wolf".
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): He seems gaunt, but in good spirits, Alexey Navalny even cracking jokes and a smile in these first public appearances by the Russian opposition leader since arriving at this Arctic penal colony, where temperatures have plunged.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEXEI NAVALNY, RUSSIAN OPPOSITION LEADER (TRANSLATED): The reality of prison is that it is a very cold place. Do you know why they take newspapers there? To cover up, because I'm reporting to the court here. It's much warmer to sleep with a newspaper, for example, than without it. And you just need this newspaper to stay warm.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHANCE (voice-over): It is if the Kremlin is doing everything to make Navalny's sentence last year extended to more than 30 years as miserable as possible, conditions at the remote Polar Wolf colony where he was secretly transferred last month, his family losing contact with him for over two weeks, and notoriously tough with dark freezing winters. In 2021, state-controlled Russian television was granted access to the colony where long-term inmates, including some of Russia's most notorious criminals, work in Spartan conditions. Navalny supporters concerned for his welfare say it's far harder now to monitor his condition.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEXEI NAVALNY, RUSSIAN OPPOSITION LEADER (TRANSLATED): It is in the north. So, it is very cold there. And even today, the light there is for two hours per day. So, I mean, the conditions, like the environment conditions there, are much worse than they were before in Vladimir region that is close to Moscow. Now -- so, from this point of view, they definitely try to isolate Alexey and to make it more difficult to access him there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHANCE (voice-over): But, his previous treatment, Navalny says, was harsh too. The opposition figure, his head shaven, telling the judge, his 10-minute meal breaks were simply too short in which to eat. 
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NAVALNY (TRANSLATED): I get two mugs of boiling water and two pieces of disgusting bread, and I wanted to drink this boiling water normally and eat this bread normally, but in 10 minutes, I must choke on this boiling water, and this is done solely to prevent a person from eating normally.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHANCE (voice-over): But, inevitably, Navalny's complaints against the Russian prison authorities were dismissed by the court. For one of the Kremlin's fiercest critics, that seems a little bit hardship ahead. Matthew Chance, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: All right. We've got an update for you about that incident in central Israel I was telling you about earlier. Israeli Police saying the incident left multiple people dead in the city of Ra'anana. It was a suspected hit and run terror attack. The suspect has been detained, according to police. Currently, the medical services, emergency services are treating and evacuating 14 casualties. So, a major incident there unfolding in central Israel. 
 
Security tight in the Swiss ski resort of Davos ahead of the opening of the World Economic Forum later this evening. Business and political leaders from around the world will get together there to, well, this week really, again, to talk about the challenges of the economic backdrop we're currently facing. The Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will be there. He is scheduled to speak in person on Tuesday. We'll have full coverage of the forum, including exclusive interviews. That will start at 5 p.m. here in London, 12 p.m. Eastern in the U.S. 
 
Thanks for joining me here on CNN Newsroom. I'm Max Foster in London. WORLD SPORT with Amanda is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)