Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: The Year in Sports; College Football Playoffs Continue; Parenting Tips For Children During Holidays; FDA Approves Generic GLP- 1 Drug. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired December 24, 2024 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:05]
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN HOST:  And for more information on how you can help small businesses in Asheville, go to CNN.com/Impact. 
 
All right, well, two billion gifts have already been delivered so far. Let's check back in and see where Santa is. This is a live look at NORAD's Santa tracker. You can see he's currently flying over Russia right now. Now, we have still got a few more hours before he makes it to us here in the states. Not too late to make some last-minute additions to your Christmas list. 
 
Now, some parents may be turning to a different list to keep their children well-behaved for the big day, the naughty list. No one wants to end up there. A new poll from C.S. Mott Children's Hospital found that a quarter of parents with preschool-age children have used Santa or the threat of no presents as a way to curb bad behavior. 
 
But experts say it's actually not the best way to go if you want a well-behaved holiday. 
 
Let's bring in one of those experts. Dr. Susan Woolford joins us now. She is the co-director with the Mott poll and also a pediatrician at the University of Michigan. 
 
Dr. Woolford, great to have you. 
 
DR. SUSAN WOOLFORD, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:  Hi. Good morning. Happy holidays to you. 
 
SOLOMON:  Happy holidays. 
 
And I think, speaking of holidays, presents, the threat of losing presents, whether it's Christmas, Hanukkah, Kwanzaa, can be really stressful for kids, but you say maybe not for the reason that many parents think. Tell us more. 
 
WOOLFORD:  So, I think that when parents use threats for -- as a means of helping to control their children's behavior, it often backfires, because, let's face it, how many parents really are going to follow through with those threats? Very few. 
 
And so then the children learn that they're pretty hollow -- pretty hollow threats and learn to continue with the misbehavior. 
 
SOLOMON:  So the threat doesn't really carry much weight or credibility if the parent doesn't follow through? 
 
WOOLFORD:  Absolutely. 
 
And following through is really key. And doing so pretty close to the behavior. So if you want to have a child to behave, if they're doing something that you don't want them to do, and you put in place a consequence, it needs to happen pretty close to that behavior, so that they understand the connection, particularly with young children. 
 
If it's a little way off, they won't get that connection. 
 
SOLOMON:  You want to make the association. 
 
So the other side of the coin is something like incentives or bribing to get better behavior. Your poll found that half of parents say they have done this. Is that a better way to go? 
 
WOOLFORD:  Well, we really don't recommend bribing either, because, when you bribe a child to do something, then they learn that that's the way they can get what they want. If I throw a tantrum, then mom will bribe me to behave well by giving me what I want, so why would I not throw another tantrum? 
 
So we don't recommend bribing either. 
 
SOLOMON:  OK, what about candy, treats, cookies, cakes? How about something to that effect? 
 
WOOLFORD:  So, indeed. In our poll, about half of the parents indicated that they have used, like, the threat of taking away dessert, for example, as a way of disciplining children. 
 
And we absolutely don't think that using food either as a bribe or as a punishment is the way to go, because it really sets up a poor relationship with food moving forward. And, indeed, if you use something as a reward or as a bribe, children are going to want that thing even more. 
 
And I think the last thing we want children to want more of is sugar, so we absolutely don't want to use that. 
 
SOLOMON:  Fair enough. I think a lot of parents might be hearing this and pulling their hair out, like, OK, so all of these things I shouldn't do. What can I do? How can I sort of incentivize these small members of our family to be on their best behavior? 
 
WOOLFORD:  All right, so I think that, when we consider discipline, first of all, parents, we have to acknowledge it is hard, right? Like, it's challenging to be able to discipline young children. And so hats off to parents for trying their best. 
 
And when we think about discipline, we should think about it as teaching. We're trying to teach children how to be safe and engage in appropriate behaviors. And so it's not so much about punishment, but it's about this sort of opportunity to train them to do the right things and safe things. 
 
And so one of the best ways to do that is to engage in positive parenting. So, look for when you can see a child doing something that you would like them to repeat and give them as much attention as you can for that good thing. Children want attention. And if they can't get it by doing good things, they will do naughty things in order to get it that way. 
 
SOLOMON:  And one thing I thought was really interesting in terms of giving them attention is being really specific about what they're doing well. So, as opposed to saying, what a good girl you are, what a good boy you are, saying, what a good girl you are for helping me, or what a good job you're doing for helping me with the laundry or for helping me with the dog, something very specific, so they fully understand. 
 <br>[11:35:04]
 
WOOLFORD:  Absolutely. 
 
Children are learning what's appropriate. And they don't know if you say, oh, what a good girl, what about my behavior actually makes me a good girl? They don't know that. And so we have to be really specific about it. 
 
And then they will be able to make that connection and do that thing again. And it's like, when kids get older, you don't just want to praise the outcome of their behavior. You want to praise really the effort that they're putting into it. So, the same thing for little kids. We want to really -- you have tried so hard to do such and such. That is really better than the outcome. Oh, the room is so clean. 
 
SOLOMON:  Yes, great insights. May we all keep the peace this holiday season. 
 
Dr. Susan Woolford, great to have you, and thanks for the tips and suggestions. 
 
WOOLFORD:  Thank you so much. 
 
SOLOMON:  All right, we're going to take a quick break, and we will be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON:  This morning, the FDA approved the first generic GLP-1 drug for people with type 2 diabetes. 
 
The move opens the door for lower-price options to reach the market, potentially expanding access to much needed medication for millions of Americans. 
 <br>[11:40:03]
 
Let's bring in CNN medical correspondent Meg Tirrell, who joins us now. 
 
Meg, always good to see you. 
 
How big is this? 
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Rahel, I mean, it's a really big headline. We are starting to see generics in this extremely popular class of drugs, GLP-1s, starting to come into the market. 
 
And people who have tried to get insurance coverage for things like Ozempic, Wegovy, Zepbound, Mounjaro can often find that that's really, really difficult. And these drugs can cost hundreds of dollars or even $1,000 a month out of pocket if you don't have insurance or discounts. 
 
However, there are a few caveats with this approval news. This is an older generation of a drug in this GLP-1 class. It's called liraglutide. The branded drug is called Victoza. This approval is for type 2 diabetes. And what's really different about this drug is that it's a daily injection, versus the newer generation of these drugs, which are given as weekly shots, things like Ozempic, for example. 
 
I also talked with doctors who pointed out, since this is an older generation drug, its benefits are not quite as strong as the ones we have seen with the newer generation medicines. However, there is hope that this will not only bring down costs, bring down prices in this class of medicines, at least for this older version, but also help fill the gaps in a shortage we have been seeing of liraglutide-based medicines, along with a shortage we have been seeing of the newer drugs as well. 
 
We do already have what's called an authorized generic on the market made by a company called Teva. That's a little bit different because that's under an agreement with the branded drugmaker. So the discount there is only about 15 percent. 
 
Rahel, they're hoping to see a bigger discount as more generics hit the market -- back over to you. 
 
SOLOMON:  Meg Tirrell, thank you. Good to see you. 
 
We're going to take a short break. We will be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:46:18]
 
SOLOMON:  All right, we want to get to some breaking news. 
 
Just minutes ago, we confirmed that former President Bill Clinton has been released from a Washington, D.C., hospital. A spokesman says that he was treated for the flu. The 78-year-old had been undergoing tests and observation since yesterday afternoon after developing a fever. 
 
All right, turning now to sports, we are a week away from kickoff of the college football playoff quarterfinals. Eight teams are still on the hunt for the elusive national championship as the games move from campus sites to the bowl venues. 
 
Let's bring in Carolyn Manno, who joins us now. 
 
So, Carolyn, unfortunately, though, the season is already over for one starting quarterback. 
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, this is tough news, Rahel. 
 
Georgia had a bye in the first round. They're going to face Notre Dame in the Sugar Bowl on New Year's Day, but they're going to have to carry on without their quarterback, Carson Beck. The 23-year-old underwent successful surgery on his right elbow to repair a UCL injury.
 
The Bulldogs announced news yesterday. He's expected to make a full recovery -- that's the good news -- and resume throwing again later in the spring. He suffered the injury on the final play of the first half of the SEC title game against Texas and was replaced by backup Gunner Stockton, who will now make his first ever start in the playoffs. 
 
Head coach Kirby Smart says the extra time off is going to help him prepare for this new role. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KIRBY SMART, GEORGIA HEAD FOOTBALL COACH:  Just experience, right, just practice. He gets -- he got lots of reps prior to these practices, but he's getting much more now. I do think, knowing that when you get ready for an opponent like Notre Dame, you need time. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO:  So here's a look at the playoff bracket, Rahel.
 
Penn State will meet Boise State in the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Eve. Then, we will ring in 2025 with a triple header, Texas facing off against Arizona State in the Peach Bowl, then Ohio State getting a rematch against top-seeded Oregon in the Rose Bowl. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAN LANNING, OREGON HEAD FOOTBALL COACH:  Getting the opportunity to play great teams, that's what it's about. And this part of the year, I think, when you play great teams, that gives you some extra motivation to go work really hard to be prepared and ready to be out there on the field. 
 
So, obviously, Ohio State's a great team, and the path to the end is tough, which is exciting for our team and certainly for me. 
 
RYAN DAY, OHIO STATE HEAD FOOTBALL COACH:  It's about execution. It's about our preparation. It's about how we go about our meetings, how we go about our walk-throughs, how we go about our practices, so that when we get out to Pasadena, we're executing at a high level. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO:  Coach Day also said that knowing their opponent from the earlier meeting gives them the confidence that they're going to need. 
 
Vegas agrees with that. They have Ohio State right now as 2.5-point favorites, Rahel, over Oregon. So we shall see. 
 
SOLOMON:  We shall see. 
 
Carolyn Manno, good to see you and merry Christmas. Liking the festive red there. 
 
All right, and 2024 has been a wild year in the world of sports, from history making college athletes to redemption and controversy at the Paris Olympics. 
 
Andy Scholes breaks down the top 10 sports stories of the year. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Well, 2024 was a year where the superstars certainly shined bright, LeBron, Simone, Mahomes, Scheffler, Ohtani, and Clark all dominating their sports, but there were some controversies along the way.
 
Here are the top moments in sports from this year. 
 
We start our countdown with Boston Celtics returning to the top of the NBA, winning their record 18th title, Jayson Tatum, Jaylen Brown and company beating the Mavericks in five games. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Just at the top of the mountain, but we did it. We won a championship. 
 
SCHOLES:  And we almost saw history in the NHL. The Florida Panthers were up 3-0 in the Stanley Cup final before the Edmonton Oilers stormed back to force a game seven. But the Panthers would hold on to win their first ever championship. 
 <br>[11:50:03]
 
At number nine, in college basketball, Dawn Staley's South Carolina Gamecocks became the 10th women's Division I team in history to go undefeated. They were a perfect 38-0 and then capped it off by winning the third title in school history. 
 
DAWN STALEY, HEAD WOMEN'S BASKETBALL COACH, SOUTH CAROLINA GAMECOCKS: Just really excited to share this moment with our team. 
 
SCHOLES:  UConn Huskies, meanwhile, becoming the first men's team since Florida in 2007 to win back-to-back titles. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Unbelievable. Feels like last year. 
 
(LAUGHTER) SCHOLES:  At number eight, we had history in the NBA. LeBron James and his son Bronny taking the floor together, making it the first time ever a father and son played together in the league. 
 
LEBRON JAMES, LOS ANGELES LAKERS:  No matter how old I get, no matter how my memory may fade as I get older or whatever, I would never forget that moment. 
 
BRONNY JAMES, LOS ANGELES LAKERS:  I appreciate the Laker Nation for showing the support for me and my dad. 
 
SCHOLES:  And at number seven, LeBron with quite the 2024, as he, alongside Steph Curry led Team USA to an Olympic gold medal in Paris, beating France in the championship game. It was their fifth straight gold. The women, meanwhile, winning their eighth straight gold medal behind a dominant performance from A'ja Wilson. 
 
And on the pitch, under new head coach Emma Hayes, the U.S. women's soccer team getting back to their winning ways, beating Brazil 1-0 to capture the gold medal for the first time since 2012. At number six, we also saw amazing solo performances at the Paris Games. 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN HOST:  American Noah Lyles stakes his claim as the fastest man in the world with a thrilling photo finish in the 100- meter dash. 
 
SCHOLES:  Lyles became the first American in 20 years to grab the title of the fastest man on the planet. 
 
Swimming sensation Katie Ledecky becoming the most decorated U.S. female Olympian of all time with 14 medals. 
 
STEPHEN NEDOROSCIK, U.S. OLYMPIC ATHLETE:  I kind of just wanted to be that guy who might have been a little bit nerdy, but also really good at sports. That's kind of all I wanted to be. 
 
SCHOLES:  Stephen Nedoroscik, known as Clark Kent, was a true hero, dominating the pommel horse to get the U.S. men's gymnastics team their first medal since 2008. Nedoroscik leaving the Games with two bronze medals. 
 
Many world records were set, but none more impressive than Sydney McLaughlin-Levrone, who crushed the field in the 400-meter hurdles. 
 
SYDNEY MCLAUGHLIN-LEVRONE, U.S. OLYMPIC ATHLETE:  Unreal, honestly, full-circle moment. First, I feel like full Olympic moment with friends and family there. 
 
SCHOLES:  At number five, Simone Biles triumphantly returning to the Olympics, proving once again she is the GOAT, the 27-year-old winning three gold medals and a silver and in the process became the most decorated U.S. gymnast of all time. 
 
SIMONE BILES, U.S. OLYMPIC GYMNAST:  I solely did it for myself, and I'm in a really good spot mentally and physically. So doing this for just me, it meant the world. SCHOLES:  Biles and the women's team reclaiming the gold, but the
 
 Paris Games did end in controversy for a member of the team. 
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST:  Surprising turn of events in Paris. American gymnast Jordan Chiles has been stripped of her bronze medal. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST:  The situation is getting more complicated by the day. USA Gymnastics says its appeal for Olympic gymnast Jordan Chiles to keep her bronze medal was denied. 
 
JORDAN CHILES, U.S. OLYMPIC ATHLETE:  It's definitely been a really hard year. 
 
SCHOLES:  At number four, Shohei Ohtani had a season in baseball that will never be duplicated again, both on and off the field. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Just one week before opening day, a stunning scandal is erupted in Major League Baseball, the interpreter for L.A. Dodgers player Shohei Ohtani fired amid allegations that he stole millions of dollars from the Japanese superstar to cover a gambling debt. 
 
SCHOLES:  The whole controversy, though, did not affect Ohtani one bit on the field. He went on to have the first ever 50/50 season in baseball history. He ended up with 54 home runs and 59 stolen bases. The Japanese star then went on to win his first World Series, as the Dodgers beat the Yankees in five games. 
 
At number three, the PGA Championship getting off to a rocky start. 
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  We're following major drama at the PGA championship in Louisville, Kentucky, where top-ranked golfer Scottie Scheffler was arrested and detained just outside the course, where he would tee off only a few hours later. 
 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER:  I feel like my head's still spinning. I can't really explain what happened this morning. I did spend some time stretching in a jail cell. That was a first for me. 
 
SCHOLES:  Now, despite being arrested before round two, Scheffler still finished tight for eighth at the PGA Championship. And he went on to have one of the best years in golf history. Scheffler won nine times, including his second Masters in three years and gold at the Paris Games. 
 
SCHEFFLER:  I'm just a kid from Texas who loves playing golf and just trying to get the most out of myself. And this year's been really fun. 
 
SCHOLES:  At number two on our countdown is Caitlin Clark mania just taking over the country. 
 
LAURA COATES, CNN HOST:  History truly in the making and so far out, by the way, Iowa Hawkeyes superstar Caitlin Clark breaking the NCAA women's basketball all-time scoring record. 
 
CAITLIN CLARK, INDIANA FEVER:  I don't know if you can really script it any better. [11:55:01]
 
SCHOLES:  And Clark wasn't just setting scoring records. Attendance and viewership were at all-time highs whenever Clark stepped on the floor. Her rematch against Angel Reese and LSU was watched by 12.3 million people, making it the most-watched women's college basketball game ever. 
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN HOST:  Caitlin Clark is headed to the WNBA as the number one overall draft pick. 
 
CLARK:  Just getting to enjoy it and soak it in I think is the biggest thing, because, like, this is once in a lifetime. 
 
SCHOLES:  Clark's remarkable year ended with her winning the WNBA rookie of the year and leading the Fever to the playoffs. And 2024 was certainly an extraordinary year for the WNBA, the league setting records for attendance and viewership.
 
And in the end, it was the Liberty winning their first ever title, beating the Lynx. 
 
And, finally, our number one sports moment of the year belonged to Patrick Mahomes and the Kansas City Chiefs. With Taylor Swift in attendance to cheer on boyfriend Travis Kelce, the Chiefs beating the 49ers in an overtime thriller in the first ever Las Vegas Super Bowl, Mahomes, Kelce and company winning back-to-back titles in their third and five years. 
 
PATRICK MAHOMES, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS:  I'm so proud of the team, so proud of the guys and to battle to the very end. I mean, that was a microcosm of our season. It really is special just to be able to say we're back-to-back champs. 
 
SCHOLES:  And as we head into 2025, the Chiefs are looking to become the first team ever to win three straight Super Bowls. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON:  We will see if they can pull it off. Andy Scholes, thank you.
 
And thank you for joining me today. I'm Rahel Solomon. 
 
Stay with us. "INSIDE POLITICS' with Phil Mattingly starts after this short break.