Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Tributes to Jimmy Carter; S. Korea to Investigate all Boeing 737-800 Planes; Azerbaijan President Accuses Russia of Shooting Down Plane; Israeli Raid Shuts Down Kamal al Adwan Hospital; China Accused of Hacking into U.S. Government Workstations; Jimmy Carter's Complex Legacy; Turning New Year's Resolution into Reality. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired December 30, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  It's 8:00 a.m. in Seoul, 11:00 p.m. in London, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move" as always. And here's today's need to know. Lasting legacy, tributes from around the world following the death of 
 
 Former President Jimmy Carter, a state funeral will be held on January the 9th.
 
Aviation action. South Korea will investigate all Boeing 737-800 planes as investigators work to understand what caused Sunday's fatal crash.
 
Treasury tampering. China is accused of hacking into U.S. government workstations in what's been described as a major incident.
 
And resolutions ruined. We're joined by psychology professor Chris Barry to talk about how to keep those New Year plans and promises on track. That 
 
 conversation and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter has died. He was 100 years old. Carter served just one presidential term and notable successes include 
 
 forging a closer relationship between the U.S. and China and a lasting peace agreement between Israel and Egypt. Carter also redefined life after 
 
 the White House, winning the Nobel Peace Prize for his humanitarian work at the Carter Center.
 
All five current and former presidents honoring Carter's work on social media. President Joe Biden saying on X that Carter was, quote, "a man of 
 
 principle, faith, and humility." Larry Sabato is the director of the Center of Politics at the University of Virginia, and he joins us now. Larry, 
 
 always a pleasure to have you on the show. What stands out to you about President Carter's life and his legacy?
 
LARRY SABATO, DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR POLITICS, UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, EDITOR, "A RETURN TO NORMALCY?", FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO CHINA AND FORMER 
 
 U.S. SENATOR:  I think it's finally being appreciated. Yes, people have said good things about his post-presidential life for a long time, but as 
 
 we go back and look at the structures of his presidency, even though it was one term, he actually accomplished a lot, and he was way ahead of his time 
 
 on things like climate control, solar energy.
 
And then, you mentioned some of the key things like the Israeli-Egyptian treaty, which no one at the time thought was possible. People thought he 
 
 was crazy to even be attempting this, and he got it done. And for the most part, it has endured, which is quite amazing in that region.
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's interesting because certainly before this moment, I think a lot of people would have said it was a presidency remembered for high 
 
 inflation, for an oil crisis, economic stagnation. But what I've learned subsequently as well is that 10 million jobs were created, to your point, 
 
 an energy renaissance was unleashed with deregulation in the oil and gas sector in particular, and that solar panels were added to the roof the 
 
 White House, which I certainly didn't know.
 
I think one of the other aspects of this and the sort of 43-year retirement post presidency that he enabled was, what, the work that he achieved at the 
 
 Carter Center, but also the 77-year marriage that he had with his wife, too, and how much of a defining feature that was for him as a person, but 
 
 also the post-presidential era, too.
 
SABATO:  Oh, absolutely. Just briefly on the marriage. I had several occasions to see them together and see them in private and public, and this 
 
 was real. You can't pretend for 77 years. They had a 77-year marriage. It's really one for the ages.
 
And the other thing I should mentioned are very important as well. Sometimes we only appreciate somebody or something in retrospect after many 
 
 years have passed, and our evaluation of public officials frequently changes. Carter's has already gone up, and I think it's going to go up a 
 
 lot more as history takes a second, third, fourth, and fifth look at Jimmy Carter.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I love that line. You can't lie for 77 years. Yes. Larry, great to have you on. Thank you.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
SABATO:  Thank you, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  The director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia there. Now, we're also joined by Max Baucus is a former U.S. 
 
 ambassador to China as well. Ambassador Baucus fantastic to have you on the show as well. And I'm sure you have a very heavy heart today too, because 
 
 you also had a personal relationship with President Carter. First, your thoughts today.
 
MAX BAUCUS, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO CHINA:  I think as your previous speaker said, Jimmy Carter is going to remember it very well in history, 
 
 and that's because he actually did a lot, and also because he's a very decent, good man, high moral values, a wonderful person, and that's going 
 
 to be enduring.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, we could talk about many different aspects of his public service across very different spheres, but I would love to talk to you 
 
 specifically, particularly given your experience of his influence in establishing normalized relations between the U.S. and China at a very 
 
 pivotal moment. It obviously had profound consequences for Taiwan as well. Just your perspective on his work there.
 
BAUCUS:  Jimmy Carter was a visionary. He saw a way in the future much more than most people do and he would gamble, he would take risks, and 
 
 certainly, is a big risk back then for him to sit down with Deng Xiaoping and negotiate a mutual diplomatic recognition of our two countries and, 
 
 most importantly, for them to agree that the Mainland China, the PRC is going to be the permanent nember of the U.S. human security council not 
 
 Taiwan, now, that's revolutionary so to speak. And it's -- it is -- it has immense consequences since.
 
But he did that partly because he saw that China was going to be a major player in the world, much more than Taiwan. He also saw that the KMT lost 
 
 the war, Chiang Kai-shek lost, he had to go over to Taiwan. And it's also during a time not too long after the Vietnamese War. We also wanted to 
 
 drive a wedge between China and Russia. So, he, at the time, is very much the right thing to do.
 
CHATTERLEY:  You know, a lot's also been made of his religion and his religious beliefs as well. And he also pushed, during that time in China, 
 
 for the greater religious and democratic freedoms. I think he has secured an agreement in 1979, I read, to permit unrestricted worship and the 
 
 distribution of bibles in China as well. And obviously, the situation is very different today and a long time has passed. But I just wonder what it 
 
 was about him as a man that managed to negotiate at very difficult moments, from your perspective, breakthroughs such as this, and there were many of 
 
 them.
 
BAUCUS:  It was his persistence. He stuck with it. He had an idea. He had a mission. He had a goal. Let's take the Camp David Accords. That nearly fell 
 
 apart, but he stuck with it. He stuck with it, and he finally got an agreement. Same thing with Deng Xiaoping. He stuck with it. He had a 
 
 mission and he was very persistent. That's why he did so well.
 
Now, it is true that he extracted a concession from China to allow, you know, bibles to be available in China and worship available. But on the 
 
 other hand, to be honest, Jimmy Carter looked a little bit the other way with respect to human rights in China. He needed a deal and he couldn't get 
 
 everything and he got the mutual recognition. He got China -- and China was successful in getting him to agree to China's position in the Security 
 
 Council, but he didn't get everything and one cannot get everything, but bottom line, he worked very hard to get a very good agreement.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, don't let perfection get in the way of progress, perhaps to your point, as you know him, what do you -- 
 
BAUCUS:  And also -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, please.
 
BAUCUS:  No, no, go ahead.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I was just going to ask, what do you think he'd like to be remembered for based on what you know about him for?
 
BAUCUS:  He liked remembered as a consummate heart-driven person who really wants to accomplish the best possible for most people around the world. 
 
 Look at all he's done to conquer disease. Trips he took in North Korea, to Bosnia, to Haiti. He's trying to get governments and people agreeing 
 
 together. I think he'd like to be remembered as a very, very high-minded decent, almost moralistic, person who did his very best his entire life. 
 
 And he's a consummate servant, always helping to find solutions and helping people, whether it's -- with whether in the White House or after the White 
 
 House, four years in the White House and 40 years afterwards.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, the legacy came afterwards in many respects and not afraid to tell the truth to presidents that followed him either. 
 
 Ambassador, great to get your insights. Sir, thank you so much for your time.
 
BAUCUS:  You bet. You bet. Thank you.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right.
 
BAUCUS:  Happy New Year.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Happy New Year to you too, sir. Thank you. We're also following South Korea's worst aviation disaster in more than two decades. 
 
 The government now plans to inspect all Boeing 737-800 aircraft operating in the nation as it investigates the cause of the weekend crash. A team 
 
 from the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board will also assist in the investigation. South Korea says it's recovered the flight data recorder and 
 
 analysis will begin once the U.S. team and Boeing officials arrive.
 
179 people lost their lives while two crew members survived. Their plane crashed into a concrete fence during an emergency landing. Mike Valerio 
 
 joins us now from South Korea. And, Mike, we can see behind you, you're actually at the crash site. For anyone that's seen images of this earlier 
 
 today or the videos, it's pretty horrific.
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Julia, I think that could be the understatement of our New Year's Eve morning. It is stunning to be this 
 
 close. We're only a few footsteps away. So, we're going to zoom in before we toss to our piece on all that has unfolded.
 
So, you see the vertical stabilizer, the tail, it's jutting out towards us and the fins of the tail are standing about 15 meters tall. This dark, 
 
 black silhouette hulking above the wreckage site. So, Julia, as investigators in the United States and the NTSB are due to arrive here and 
 
 begin their work today, they're going to be looking to see whether this was a chain reaction. But first and foremost, we want to show you the human 
 
 faces of this tragedy who are still camped out at the airport.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  It is the unmistakable outcry of grief heard throughout South Korea's Muan International Airport. Families unable to 
 
 absorb the anguish of the Jeju Air catastrophe. Hundreds of relatives huddling in the departure hall, waiting for news of whether their loved 
 
 ones remains are found.
 
A friend of a couple killed in the crash said he came here to confirm for himself his friends of 30 years are simply gone.
 
I have nothing to say, but it's tragic, he told us. I watched the news all day and for now, they say bird strike could be the cause. I'm so shocked 
 
 and hurt. I cannot even put it into words.
 
VALERIO:  Now, so many people have chosen to stay. They're not going anywhere and that's seen evidenced by all of these tents. They go from here 
 
 pretty much to the end of the terminal. They go back three tents to the edge of the check in counters. You see food deliveries throughout the day. 
 
 Let's keep going this way. And the echoes of grief.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  The scenes inside are just a short drive from the cataclysmic crash site. The tale of the doomed airliner still jutting above 
 
 the field. A mountain in the middle of the debris. More than a thousand people now mobilized to sift through pieces of the plane.
 
VALERIO:  The crash scene is absolutely harrowing. Just a few steps away, you can see where the doom Jeju Air jetliner careen through the embankment 
 
 and burst into flames. And more than a day later, you can still see forensics teams in their white suits combing through the debris, along with 
 
 members of the police force, as well as members of the South Korean military.
 
Now, to my right, you can see soldiers looking through the fields. And around them, to give you an idea of the force of this crash, a full 
 
 football field away from where we're standing. You can see mangled, twisted chairs thrown from the jetliner.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  A representative of the victim's families urging an even larger response.
 
PARK HAN-SHIN, REPRESENTATIVE OF JEJU AIR CRASH VICTIM'S FAMILIES (voice- over):  What I want to request from the government is to increase the manpower so that the recovery can be carried out more swiftly. I hope my 
 
 siblings, my family, can be recovered and returned to us, even if only 80 percent intact.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  For now, Muan remains the epicenter of a nation in mourning. The weight of unspoken farewells and quiet desperation made 
 
 unbearable by an absence of answers.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALERIO (on camera):  So, Julia, as we walk over here, we're going to show you a better sense of the debris field and talk about why this 
 
 investigation matters to a wider global audience. Just look over here. You can see all the yellow and some red flags that are marking pieces of 
 
 debris. So, investigators, Julia, are trying to figure out whether or not this was a catastrophe unique to this specific aircraft and perhaps 
 
 specific circumstances of the day or, the second option, was this some sort of chain reaction perhaps caused by a bird strike that needs to be 
 
 addressed, that could, I stress could, affect the wider fleet of 737-800s?
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
That is setting the table of what investigators are going to begin to look at today when they join forces from the United States and South Korea.
 
Again, on New Year's Eve, the sun coming up, a day that normally would be filled with celebration, I can't describe enough, Julia, how such appall 
 
 has fallen over South Korea, a country that has been through so much this month, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, just a day filled with heartbreak to your point, Mike. I mean, we were just watching the comments in your report of that 
 
 representative for the family members saying, and you could see the grief on his face that they simply wanted a more dramatic and higher scaled 
 
 response. I mean, for them waiting for the results of this investigation is -- it's going to be unbearable.
 
But do you get a sense that there's going to be even just behind you? And I know it's early morning. It's only just past 8:00 a.m. there, but that 
 
 there will be a greater response in terms of people even pouring over this crash site to try and understand what happened?
 
VALERIO:  It seems as though there are a whole multitude of resources. But our main question is, Julia, this airport is scheduled to at least remain 
 
 closed until Wednesday. We're wondering if there's going to be more manpower devoted to moving this crane, having the crane move, pieces of the 
 
 wreckage site, but it remains to be -- I mean, there are members of the military who are here, in large numbers.
 
So, we are going to be asking that question to, you know, politicians throughout the country, throughout south of (INAUDIBLE) Province here, 
 
 whether or not they can contribute more. Because, frankly to your point, the people who are camped out in the airport, three kilometers away, there 
 
 are still human remains that are scattered within the field, and they want them found ASAP because this tragedy is just too much to bear.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and we could hear their cries from those tents, Mike. It's good to have you there telling the story and reporting. Thanks very 
 
 much for that report.
 
OK. Azerbaijan's president is blaming Russia for the Christmas Day plane crash in Kazakhstan that killed 38 people. President Ilham Aliyev accuses 
 
 the Kremlin of unintentionally shooting down an Azerbaijan Airlines jet as it was approaching the Russian City of Grozny, and then trying to cause or 
 
 cover up the cause. Clare Sebastian has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  From the wreckage of Azerbaijan Airlines flight 8243, an unwelcome diplomatic spat is emerging 
 
 from Moscow.
 
ILHAM ALIYEV, AZERBAIJAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  The Russian side must apologize to Azerbaijan. Secondly, it must acknowledge its guilt. 
 
 Thirdly, those responsible must be punished, brought to criminal responsibility, and compensation must be paid to the Azerbaijani state, to 
 
 the injured passengers and crew members.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over):  Of those three demands, Russia's investigative committee did promise to find those responsible and punish them, 
 
 Azerbaijan's state news agency reported Monday. A U.S. official and international experts believe a Russian air defense missile may have 
 
 brought down the plane, killing 38 passengers.
 
And there was an apology of sorts. Vladimir Putin apologized for the tragic incident that occurred in Russian airspace, came the carefully worded 
 
 Kremlin readout of Putin's call Saturday with Azerbaijan's president.
 
It also noted that as the plane tried to land in Grozny, Russian air defenses had been working to avert a Ukrainian drone attack. But as 
 
 Azerbaijan's president Aliyev attended a funeral for the pilots and a crew member killed in the Christmas Day crash Sunday, still no admission from 
 
 Russia that its air defense forces may have been responsible.
 
ALIYEV (through translator):  The facts indicate that the Azerbaijani civilian plane was damaged from the outside over Russian territory near the 
 
 City of Grozny and almost lost control. We also know that the use of electronic warfare put our plane out of control.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over):  Just over four months ago, it was all hugs and smiles with president Aliyev as Putin visited Baku to talk business. Russia 
 
 needs its former Soviet ally more than ever. As a buyer of its oil and gas and key transport route to Iran, an increasingly strategic partner.
 
WILLIAM B. TAYLOR, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE:  President Putin has had some bad times in the past couple of weeks. He's lost Syria. He's had 
 
 this problem. He's had ships sink in the Mediterranean. He's had a general killed in Moscow. So, President Putin is really on the defensive. Maybe 
 
 he's looking for a way out. I don't think he's in the mood now to accept responsibility that his military is so incompetent.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over):  Over the weekend, more funerals, this for a 13- year-old victim, the crash. As the Kremlin's PR challenge deepens.
 
Clare Sebastian, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, the Israeli military has severely damaged the last functioning hospital in Northern Gaza. It's been evacuated and shut down, 
 
 and its director has been detained.
 
Medecins Sans Frontieres, or Doctors Without Borders, has written a stark report on the current situation in Gaza, describing what they see as signs 
 
 of, quote, "ethnic cleansing and potential genocide." I spoke to MSF Secretary General Christopher Lockyear a short while ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTOPHER LOCKYEAR, SECRETARY GENERAL, MSF:  What our teams are witnessing is almost impossible to describe, which is why we've gone into 
 
 the detail that we have in this report. And in this report, what we're really saying is -- and with the release of this report, we're really 
 
 saying two things in a nutshell. What we're saying is, in the north of Gaza, as you were just referencing then, we're seeing a population which 
 
 has been forcibly displaced, trapped, and bombed, and we're therefore seeing clear signs of ethnic cleansing in the north of Gaza.
 
And what we're saying more broadly than that, in the Gaza Strip as a whole and what we've been illustrating with this report is that what our medical 
 
 teams are saying on the ground is consistent with what a growing number of legal experts and organizations are saying is indicative of genocide 
 
 happening in the Gaza Strip.
 
Now, as a medical humanitarian organization, we have teams on the ground, but we are not legal in the sense of being able to determine intent, which 
 
 is a clear pillar of genocide being carried out. However, looking at the forced displacement, looking at the mass and often indiscriminate killing 
 
 of people, looking at the harm, the physical and mental harm to tens of thousands of people, not even speaking of the excess deaths, which are 
 
 going to be caused by the attacks on healthcare, the forced displacement, and the consequences of a restriction of aid which has been going on for 
 
 months, all of these factors are undeniable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Stay with us. Plenty more to come here on "First Move." We'll be back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And a very good morning if you're just waking up with U.S. across Asia. In today's Money Move, as you 
 
 just had a sneak peek there, Wall Street ending lower today, adding to losses on Friday. The Dow down 1 percent with Boeing losing more than 2 
 
 percent after the South Korean plane crash.
 
Across Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei closed down 1 percent on its last trading day until January the 6th. South Korea's KOSPI also ending lower as well. 
 
 Shares of Jeju Air falling more than 8 percent after that fatal crash.
 
And in the meantime, an estimated 1 million people will crowd into New York's Times Square to ring in the new year. Well, they may want to bring 
 
 some umbrellas. A storm is expected to dredge parts of the Eastern United States. It's a fitting end to a year filled with pretty wild weather. Chad 
 
 Myers joins us now on what more we can expect for party goers.
 
The good news is Chad, I'm going to be out there really early in the morning. So, I think I'm going to get sunshine. Worst news for Anderson 
 
 later in the evening. Tell us more.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Right. And if you're one of the million that wants to go to Times Square, you're going to lose that umbrella 
 
 because they're not going to let you bring it in.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, wow.
 
MYERS:  So, a poncho, no backpacks, no big bags, no lawn chairs. So, you cannot bring the umbrella and poke people in the eye with it. So, that's a 
 
 big no, no. It will be raining, though, as you said, later in the afternoon, evening, like 9:00, 10:00, 11:00. That's when this storm that's 
 
 out there in the Plains finally does get to the northeast.
 
And some of those showers could even have a little bit of lightning and thunder with them. Now, this is the storm we're talking about. So, here's 
 
 the morning hours tomorrow. But look at the time here right at 11:00 midnight, that's -- that bright stuff there, that's all thunderstorm 
 
 activity. Thunder shower activity.
 
Colder in Chicago, but temperatures in New York, even with the rain, pretty nice 50. You know, that's not bad. If you're going to be in London, going 
 
 to be somewhere around 11:00 with cloudy skies, it'll be a little bit gusty, right, winds maybe 30 kilometers per hour.
 
And then Sydney, how about this, this is the place to be because, well, it's getting to be their summer, 28 will be your high here. Lots of 
 
 sunshine throughout the day. And even in Dubai, a very pleasant, 20 right around the time the clock strikes 12:00. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Some perfect weather there, and it's, what did you say, ponchos, not parasols in New York.
 
MYERS:  That's right.
 
CHATTERLEY:  That's what we expect.
 
MYERS:  Or brellies. Don't you call them brellies?
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, we do. Take the brelly, or don't take the brelly in this case. Chad, Happy New Year. Great to chat to you.
 
MYERS:  See you tomorrow.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you. See you tomorrow. We'll be right back. Stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. The U.S. Treasury Department has 
 
 notified lawmakers that a China state sponsored actor infiltrated Treasury workstations. The department describing it as a "major incident," quote. An 
 
 official says a stolen key was used to remotely access workstations and unclassified documents. A Treasury spokesperson says the compromised 
 
 service has been taken offline.
 
Prosecutors in Argentina have charged five people in connection with the death of Liam Payne. The former One Direction star died in October after 
 
 falling from the balcony of his hotel room in Buenos Aires. Three people have been charged with manslaughter, including Payne's manager. Two others 
 
 have been charged with supplying Payne with cocaine during his hotel stay.
 
A federal appeals court is denying Donald Trump's bid for a new trial in the civil sex assault case against him. The court upheld the $5 million 
 
 judgment finding that Trump sexually abused writer E. Jean Carroll in the 1990s. A Trump spokesperson is promising an appeal.
 
The Finnish investigators suspect a vessel linked to Russia dragged its anchor dozens of kilometers along the bed of the Baltic Sea. The ship was 
 
 seized before they discovered the anchor mark. The investigation is looking into how the S-LINK-2 power cable went down on Christmas Day. The 
 
 underwater transmission line links Finland to Estonia.
 
And returning once more to our top story today. Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter has died at the age of 100. His term in office was marked by world 
 
 shifting events. One of Carter's crowning achievements was the peace treaty he brokered between Israel and Egypt, but the Iranian hostage crisis and a 
 
 tough economy with high inflation doomed his re-election bid. Phil Mattingly looks back at Carter's mark on the American presidency.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIMMY CARTER, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  I intend to give our new president my support, and I intend to work as a citizen, as I've worked here in this 
 
 office, as president, for the values this nation was founded to secure.
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF DOMESTIC CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For Jimmy Carter, a farewell address to the presidency that planted the 
 
 seeds to a legacy reshaping four decades.
 
CARTER:  Thank you all.
 
MATTINGLY (voice-over):  Focused in his work at the namesake Carter Center, fighting diseases in developing countries and monitoring more than 100 
 
 international elections. But enhanced by his unofficial role as roving ambassador to the world. And unappointed and at times, in the view of his 
 
 Oval Office successors, unwelcome cause. One that put him face to face with dictators and rewrote the book for a former president as only the original 
 
 political outsider could, a role he never seemed to shed even within the most exclusive club in the world but one Carter seemed to embrace, if not 
 
 relish, as he offered advice and at times pointed criticism.
 
CARTER:  This administration has been the worst in history.
 
MATTINGLY (voice-over):  During George W. Bush's presidency, Carter was especially vocal in his opposition to the Iraq War.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Do you believe the United States, under this administration, has used torture?
 
CARTER:  I don't I don't think it. I know it. Certainly.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, is the president lying?
 
CARTER:  The president is self-defining what we have done and authorized in the torture of prisoners, yes.
 
MATTINGLY (voice-over):  Carter's 1994 trip to North Korea during a period of tension over their nuclear program put the Clinton administration in a 
 
 difficult spot.
 
CARTER:  The words that I used with President Kim Il-sung was that in my opinion the sanctions effort were being held in abeyance.
 
MATTINGLY (voice-over):  Carter cutting a deal with North Korea and then talking to CNN before President Bill Clinton.
 
BILL CLINTON, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  I don't know what he said and I don't know that you know what he said. All I know is what I said, and what I said 
 
 is the policy of the United States of America.
 
MATTINGLY (voice-over):  And yet, while Clinton was angry at the time, years later, he awarded Carter the Medal of Freedom.
 
CLINTON:  Grateful nation says thank you.
 
MATTINGLY (voice-over):  Carter once candidly responded to a question about whether President Barack Obama called him for advice.
 
CARTER:  Unfortunately, the answer's no. President Obama doesn't, but previous presidents have called on me.
 
MATTINGLY (voice-over):  And Carter's relationship with President Donald Trump deteriorated after this comment about the 2016 election.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CARTER:  He lost the election and he was put in the office because of the Russians interfere on his behalf.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, do you believe President Trump is an illegitimate president?
 
CARTER:  Based on what I just said, which I can't retract.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  President Carter was also faced with high unemployment and soaring consumer prices. Inflation nearly reached 15 percent by the summer 
 
 of 1980. He worked to lower prices and boost the economy, though, by reducing regulations. He cut red tape in aviation, trucking, and 
 
 telecommunications, helping pave the way for future growth.
 
Stuart Eizenstat was an adviser to President Carter. I spoke with him earlier about the person behind the policy and for whom politicking often 
 
 came last.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STUART EIZENSTAT, CNN CONTRIBUTOR AND FORMER CHIEF WHITE HOUSE DOMESTIC POLICY ADVISER, CARTER ADMINISTRATION:  We often told each other that the 
 
 worst way to convince President Carter of taking our recommendation on something was to tell him it would help him politically.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes.
 
EIZENSTAT:  He really is -- and this is very interesting because he was a ferocious retail politician. After all, he came from Jimmy who at 1 percent 
 
 to win the nomination by dogged retail politics, 100 days in Iowa alone. And yet, when he came to the oval office, he parked politics at the Opal 
 
 office store, and I've said that had a value in a label and tackle issues like the Middle East, like energy, like the Panama Canal, which were very 
 
 politically unpopular.
 
But it neglects the fact that a president is not only commander in chief, he has to be politician in chief. He has to tend to the flock. He has to 
 
 keep his constituency happy. And Carter felt, if I do the right thing, I'll be rewarded in the end.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I think that perhaps also helped him become a brilliant peacemaker, sir, to your point, and a changemaker in the years that 
 
 followed.
 
EIZENSTAT:  Yes, let me give you an anecdote for Camp David, because -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  You have to be very quick, sir, because I'm running out of time.
 
EIZENSTAT:  All right.
 
CHATTERLEY:  A quick anecdote.
 
EIZENSTAT:  OK. But Begin calls, comes to him at the end of 13 days and says, I'm ready to go home. I can't make any more compromises. Carter 
 
 realizes this can collapse the whole thing. He gets a picture made with eight copies of -- and endorses it to each of Begin's eight grandchildren, 
 
 walks over to Begin's cabin, has Begin read each name with peace, hopes for Jimmy Carter. He sees Begin's eyes tear, his lips begin to quiver, he puts 
 
 his suitcase down and says, Mr. President, for you -- for my grandchildren, I'll keep at this. And that's what made Camp David possible at the end.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow. He made it personal.
 
EIZENSTAT:  He made it personal.\
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Coming up for U.S. with 2025 fast approaching, we'll discuss how you can keep your New Year's resolutions. If you want a hint, 
 
 we have to think SMART. We'll explain in just a moment. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." It's clear that there's been no Santa Claus stock market rally this year, but Wall Street is set to finish 
 
 2024 with some serious sparkle. The Dow is up more than 13 percent on the year. The NASDAQ up over 30 percent even with recent declines. Clare Duffy 
 
 puts the rally into perspective.
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER:  Yes, Julia, I think, look, despite that losing streak that we've seen over the past few days, this has been a 
 
 remarkably strong year for U.S. stocks. The S&amp;P 500 is on track to end the year up 20 percent. That's after it ended up last year 23 percent. And 
 
 those back-to-back 20 percent gains are really rare. The last time we saw that happen was in 1997 and '98. And this is all, of course, thanks to the 
 
 strong economic fundamentals we've seen this year.
 
We saw inflation cooling, the Fed finally starting to cut rates, really strong consumer spending, a solid job market. We did, of course, see the 
 
 markets reacting positively to the re-election of President Donald Trump and this expectation that he is going to usher in a somewhat more business 
 
 friendly administration.
 
And then, of course, we can't talk about this year's market success without talking about the Magnificent Seven, those big tech stocks, Apple, Amazon, 
 
 Microsoft, Meta, Google, NVIDIA, Tesla. These were the companies that really drove the market rally this year. They account for 50 percent of the 
 
 S&amp;P 500 gains.
 
And on their own together, they're worth about $18 trillion. That's just huge. And that is all because investors have really high expectations 
 
 around these companies' investments in artificial intelligence, believing that they will be the leaders in this technology revolution. That's really 
 
 expected to change everything about the way that we live and work.
 
And look, heading into 2025, analysts continue to be pretty optimistic about the tech stocks, their performance, as well as the overall economic 
 
 picture. I do think there is some risk in the market's reliance on these big tech stocks. If we see regulation, you know, related to A.I. that is 
 
 needed for safety, but that could slow down progress or if these companies otherwise start to see slower progression of this, these A.I. advancements. 
 
 But overall, the picture is looking pretty sunny heading into 2025. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Clare Duffy there. Now, are you one of the millions of people around the world that will no doubt be ringing in the 
 
 new year with a resolution or two or maybe even three? Well, the sad news is studies have shown most fall by the wayside. One common problem going 
 
 too big too early.
 
For example, say your goal is to perhaps to run a marathon. Yes, I've been there, but you haven't even started running yet. Now, I do run. How do you 
 
 turn those resolutions into reality? Well, our next guest says it's a question of SMARTS, and that stands for specific, measurable, attainable, 
 
 relevant and time bound.
 
For more on all of this, we're joined by Chris Barry, professor of psychology at Washington State University. Chris, welcome to the show. 
 
 Happy almost New Year. Why do we set goals for ourselves that we have no chance of achieving? What's the mentality behind that? Because that's where 
 
 it starts.
 
CHRIS BARRY, PSYCHOLOGY PROFESSOR, WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY:  That's a good -- it's a great question, Julia, and I'm glad to be with you. I think 
 
 that you kind of hit some of the important points in your lead in there that we sort of bite off more than we can chew, maybe too soon and too 
 
 lofty.
 
I think a lot of New Year's resolutions are made with the best of intentions. These are things that we think are personally meaningful and 
 
 relevant and will lead to some improvement in some part of our lifestyle. But easier said than done, right?
 
So, the points that you raised earlier about making it specific and something measurable that we can track, something attainable and then 
 
 personally relevant and then time bound so that we sort of have a way to track our progress and whether it's working for us or not. And quite 
 
 frankly, if it's not working for us, it's not leading to any kind of meaningful improvement, maybe it does need to fall by the wayside or we can 
 
 change our goals.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I mean, one of the pieces of advice, which I love is sort of don't set your motivation goals for even just times of the day that you 
 
 hate. For example, if you're going to try and run a couple of times a week, don't aim to do it at 6:00 a.m. in the morning, if -- when your alarm goes 
 
 off in the morning, you just want to turn over and hit the snooze button.
 
At the timing thing, this is actually really important too, whether it's how many times you're doing it, what you're trying to achieve and when you 
 
 do it too.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
BARRY:  That's right. And so, I think it really has to be sort of what fits best for each of us, right? So, some of us are morning people, morning 
 
 runners. I like to run in the morning and get it out of the way. And some people wouldn't even pretend to do that on their best day. And so, you 
 
 really have to make it.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, don't set yourself up to fail. One of the other things I like is keeping it positive. So, let's eat more vegetables versus let's eat 
 
 less junk food. Don't feel like you're depriving yourself in some way. Keep it positive and actually build some kind of reward system perhaps as well, 
 
 because that I think works with people's psychology as well.
 
BARRY:  I'm glad you brought that up. And psychological research supports exactly what you said. And so, if we're framing it in terms of what not to 
 
 do versus what to do, then it's really hard to know what meaningful positive change this resolution or this goal is making for us.
 
The other thing that happens is sometimes we really can sort of punish ourselves or feel really guilty about having a bad day or not meeting the 
 
 goal on a given day. And so, if we think about ways to reward ourselves, we connect the goal to something positive as opposed to connecting it to the 
 
 guilt we feel or the shame we might feel when we don't reach it.
 
CHATTERLEY:  That's such a great point, Chris, because I was going to ask you how you avoid that negative mindset if you do fall off the wagon or you 
 
 miss a day and then you start punishing yourself and thinking, I've done it now, I've ruined it now. How do you ensure that you go look, OK, fine, I 
 
 had a slip, but I'm going to keep going, whether it's a diet or anything else that you're doing in your life? Because I think that is also very 
 
 important, not giving up because you slipped.
 
BARRY:  Yes, I think that the points behind SMART goals that you raised at the beginning all sort of fit together and fit into what you're saying. And 
 
 so, I think it really is all about mindset going into it that we're realistic with ourselves about our resolutions, and we can probably all 
 
 think about times where we've overreached in our goals, whether it was a new resolution or other times.
 
And so, really going into with a realistic mindset that this is going to be something that improves how I feel or how I relate to other people or the 
 
 world around me over time. But it's not going to be just a light switch that just kind of comes on for us and that any slip up is unacceptable.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I have a confession. I gave up Diet Coke this past year and I may have had a Diet Coke over Christmas, but I'm proud of myself that 
 
 I only had one and I'm back on the wagon, officially telling my team that they're going to be mad with me.
 
BARRY:  Well, you made a really long time.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. But I'm doing well.
 
BARRY:  You made it much longer than the research tells us.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, did I? Oh, wow. OK. Well, I'm continuing. Chris, Happy New Year. Thank you so much for your wisdom.
 
BARRY:  Happy New Year to you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you. Chris Barry psychology professor at Washington State University. Yes, I'm a survivor.
 
All right. Huge crowds are expected to fill London this New Year's Eve and pack the subway or tube as we know it there once the party's over. Anna 
 
 Stewart looks at the plan to get everyone home safe and sound.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  From parties on the tube to scenes like this, the struggle to get home. New Year's Eve is a big night 
 
 and a major challenge for Transport for London. Time to see how it all works -- 
 
STEWART:  I'm so excited.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  -- from the driver's seat.
 
STEWART:  Do you get nervous like going into the platform and seeing huge crowds?
 
STEFAN YOUNG, DRIVER, TRANSPORT FOR LONDON:  It takes a certain individual to become a driver. For you to have like, say, nerves of steel, you're 
 
 coming in the platform, you can't be too jittery, you can't be too jumpy, you can't be too shaky, you just got to come in knowing that in your mind, 
 
 everything's fine.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  Fortunately for Stefan, there are many more eyeballs on platforms on the night.
 
RALPH DAVISON, NETWORK RESILIENCE STRATEGY MANAGER, TRANSPORT FOR LONDON:  So, we have additional staff, all over the combine we have additional 
 
 staff, and we ask them to keep an eye out on absolutely everyone.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  The team here starts planning for New Year's Eve in July. And then they manage the crowds by watching it all unfold live from 
 
 this control center.
 
DAVISON:  Your safety is our priority.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  To prevent overcrowding, you may have to queue outside stations for, well, quite a while. And once you've made it onto a 
 
 tube, the party may continue. Giving drivers like Stefan some light relief.
 
YOUNG:  It gives me something to do, look at, have a little giggle to myself, because obviously, everyone's been out having a good time, enjoying 
 
 New Year's Eve, and I've been stuck in my little office.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  Of course, the little office does come with a perk. The power to chat to the passengers.
 
YOUNG:  Almost again, mind the gap between the train and the platform.
 
STEWART:  This is Anna Stewart from CNN. Happy New Year. And please mind the gap.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And CNN will have special coverage of New Year's Eve. Celebrations all around the globe. You can tune in December 31st at midday 
 
 London time to follow the festivities.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
All right. Still to come for us, an end to the year Manchester United would rather forget, another loss, this time to Newcastle. All the Premier League 
 
 action, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's that time of the show. Three matches today in the English Premier League, keeping fans well occupied. It was a nightmarish end to the 
 
 year, though, for Manchester United, the team defeated by Newcastle 2-nil at Old Trafford just hours ago. It's United's fourth straight loss in all 
 
 competitions. Meanwhile, Ipswich beat Chelsea 2-nil, and it was a two all draw for Aston Villa and Brighton.
 
Don Riddell joins U.S. now. Don, lots of action, ouchies, though, for Manchester United. I'll try to keep the smile off my face.
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Yes, Liverpool fans rejoicing, I'm sure. Look, it's been a nightmare season, actually, for both Manchester clubs. 
 
 Manchester City, the four-time defending champions, have had a nightmare for the last couple of months. Man United have been struggling the whole 
 
 time. They got a new manager in Ruben Amorim a couple of months ago, hoping to turn it all around. But things really are now going from bad to worse.
 
As you just said there, Julia, four straight defeats for Manchester United. More importantly of historical significance, this was their third 
 
 consecutive defeat at home, at Old Trafford. They haven't endured a run like that in more than 60 years. And the alarm bells really should be 
 
 ringing because United have been struggling to defend set pieces. They can't even defend crosses, it would seem at the moment. And it's really 
 
 hard to know how and when things are going to turn around.
 
Just look at the fixtures coming up. Their next few games are fascinating, if not absolutely daunting. Their next game is against your team, Julia, 
 
 Liverpool, the runaway league leaders at the moment in the Premier League at Anfield. These two are great rivals. Remember, it was just last year 
 
 that Liverpool thrashed Manchester United 7-nil. To be honest, you can kind of see a result like that happening again.
 
It doesn't get any easier their next game away again at Arsenal, who are currently third in the league. That one is in the FA Cup. The next game you 
 
 would think might be easy at home against Southampton. Southampton are the bottom team in the Premier League, but the way United are playing at the 
 
 moment, you can't take anything for granted. United are only seven points now above the relegation zone. So, this game, all of a sudden, seems 
 
 really, really important. And I mean, if they lose that, then we -- you know, they're just in a whole world of hurt potentially.
 
It's hard to imagine that Manchester United would be involved in a relegation scrap, but the way their things are going right now, maybe 
 
 that's where they're heading.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow. I can't even believe we're discussing that. I guess we're only halfway through the season. So, anything and everything can change and 
 
 we take nothing for granted. But you did say the magic word, Liverpool. That is the next match.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
I obviously watched the highlights of the West Ham match that we saw on Sunday, of course, too. My father said it should have been 10 rather than 
 
 winning by 5-nil, but he wouldn't say that.
 
RIDDELL:  Yes. I mean, Liverpool, I mean, they're just making it look so easy this season. They're by far and away the best team in Europe. As I 
 
 said, they're running away with the Premier League. 5-nil at West Ham yesterday. Liverpool are scoring for fun. To be fair, West Ham didn't 
 
 exactly offer much of a contest here.
 
But Liverpool are such an exciting team this season. They're playing so well. They're fun to watch their manager, Arne Slot, has come in and taken 
 
 over from Jurgen Klopp, essentially with the same team and the same project, and he's got them playing arguably even better than they were on 
 
 the Jurgen Klopp.
 
So, an awful lot to look forward to for the Liverpool fans in the new year, things really are going swimmingly for them.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, more than seamless transition of the management there. Don, great to chat to you, sir. Happy New Year.
 
RIDDELL:  Yes, same to you. Likewise. Enjoy it.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Great to have you on. Don Riddell there. And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. You can join CNN tomorrow for 
 
 a host of New Year's Eve festivities from all around the world. And I wish you a very Happy New Year. We'll see you later this week.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END