Headline: Amanpour
Sub-headline: Interview with Rep. Dan Crenshaw (R-TX); Interview with Democratic Candidate for New York State House John Avlon; Interview with "Left Adrift" Author Timothy Shenk. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired October 30, 2024 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:00:00]
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone, and welcome to "Amanpour." Here's what's coming up.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  Donald Trump has spent a decade trying to keep the American 
 
 people divided and afraid of each other.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMANPOUR:  It's the final sprint, and both candidates make their closing pitch. I asked Republican Congressman and former Navy SEAL Dan Crenshaw why 
 
 he thinks Trump can unite the country.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Next Tuesday you have to stand up and you have to tell Kamala that you've 
 
 had enough.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMANPOUR:  As power in Washington hangs in the balance, Democrat John Avlon on his congressional race, which could determine who controls the house.
 
Also, ahead -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TIMOTHY SHENK, AUTHOR, "LEFT ADRIFT":  Ever since Donald Trump got on that golden escalator, Democrats have become the party of resistance.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMANPOUR:  -- "Left Adrift: What Happened to Liberal Politics." Michel Martin talks to author Timothy Shenk about his new book exploring the 
 
 transformation of the Democratic Party.
 
Welcome to the program, everyone. I'm Christiane Amanpour in London. In this most nail-biting American election, candidates are making their so-
 
 called closing arguments to the American people. Speaking from the Ellipse in Washington, D.C. last night, Where Donald Trump had rallied his 
 
 supporters on January 6th, Kamala Harris reminded voters of the Capitol insurrection and Trump's outspoken threats to democracy.
 
Meantime, the GOP is feeling bullish, looking at the number of ballots being returned by registered Republicans, with far more voting early than 
 
 four years ago. And yet, Donald Trump continues to stoke fears of widespread voter fraud, making unfounded allegations to assert that if he 
 
 doesn't win, the whole thing is rigged.
 
Congressman Dan Crenshaw was among a handful of Texas Republicans who voted to certify the 2020 presidential election. Today though, he is sitting 
 
 firmly in Trump's camp and promoting his vision for America. And he's joining us from Texas right now. Congressman Crenshaw, welcome to the 
 
 program.
 
REP. DAN CRENSHAW (R-TX):  Thanks for having me.
 
AMANPOUR:  Yes. So, we have a little bit of a delay, but I'm just saying that for our viewers to know. Now, the vice president last night, 
 
 basically, or recently, held a rally in your neighborhood in Texas, in Houston, which we know is not a battleground state, but she called Texas 
 
 ground zero in the fight for reproductive freedom.
 
Given the fact that there's this big gender gap, as you know, particularly amongst young people in this election, how is that message moving the 
 
 needle and for Republicans?
 
CRENSHAW:  I mean, it depends on the state. It's not going to move the needle in Texas. We've had multiple statewide elections since we put into 
 
 place one of the strongest prolife policies in the country, and Republicans statewide continue to win by 10 points.
 
And you know -- and I think more and more people are waking up to the fact that reproductive freedom doesn't necessarily mean kill a baby. You know, 
 
 let's be honest about what we're talking about. Let's not use euphemisms for the actions that are being taken. And so, look, Republicans like myself 
 
 are going to continue to be pro-life and continue to fight for that because it's the common-sense thing to do, it's the human thing to do, it's the 
 
 right and moral thing to do.
 
So, does it affect Texas? I'm not so sure. Does it affect other states? It really depends. It's state by state and it depends oftentimes on what is on 
 
 the ballot. Democrats have been clever in getting this question put on the ballot. And then, they complain that Roe v. Wade is overturned, but all Roe 
 
 v. Wade did, being overturned, because it was a terrible legal decision to begin with, any lawyer would admit that, all it did was democratize the 
 
 issue, which I thought was -- what we were supposed to do in America, have policy debates about difficult issues and decide them at the state level, 
 
 which is what's happening.
 
AMANPOUR:  Well, as you know, what Trump and the Supreme Court did put the fear of -- I mean, I'm just going to use a phrase, put the fear of God into 
 
 people all over the country and has caused a lot of anxiety, hardship, expense, and even health dangers, to the point that conservative Liz Cheney 
 
 has said she believes that women will be the deciding factor for Kamala because of this issue.
 <br>[13:05:00]
 
So, I guess I want to ask you whether, generally -- I mean, you're a politician, generally, the Republicans have an answer to what has been a 
 
 losing vote for your party over the last several cycles.
 
CRENSHAW:  Yes. Look, I understand the pitfalls politically, but that doesn't matter to me when we're talking about doing what is right and 
 
 standing for what is right. And it's not exactly true that this is such a losing issue. Trump's position is widely held by the vast majority of 
 
 Americans. I mean, any poll that you've seen for the last 20 years shows that about 60 to 70 percent of people think that abortion past 12 weeks, it 
 
 shouldn't be allowed. It should be illegal.
 
And Trump's position has been to -- actually to not even do that, but to say that there should be no federal ban and that it should be left to the 
 
 states. So, Trump is a far more moderate candidate if people are actually being objective about what moderation is.
 
The extreme position in this case is to be in favor of what just about every Democrat is in favor of, which is abortion on demand at any time in a 
 
 pregnancy. That's not the case in Europe, and just about every country in Europe would scoff at that idea. Since the -- since European laws are 
 
 usually prevent abortion in the past 12 weeks. Only here do we have these extreme abortion measures that Democrats support. And I think people should 
 
 understand what the difference is.
 
AMANPOUR:  Let me ask you, because you talk about, you know, principle and pragmatism. I mean, as you know, the majority of Americans are pro their 
 
 rights under Roe vs. Wade. But let's just move on, because you -- as I said, you voted to certify the 2020 -- 
 
CRENSHAW:  No, no, no. No, don't move on from that. Don't be clever about it.
 
AMANPOUR:  I'm not being clever and I'm not debating. I'm merely actually asking -- 
 
CRENSHAW:  -- what their answers are.
 
AMANPOUR:  No, no.
 
CRENSHAW:  People -- when people are asked, do you support Roe v. Wade, they're not really sure what they're supporting.
 
AMANPOUR:  Oh, OK.
 
CRENSHAW:  The truth is, and you know this, from Pew Research, that 60, 70 percent of people do not agree with abortion past 12 weeks. So, we're not 
 
 the crazy ones here.
 
AMANPOUR:  Nobody's talking about crazy, I'm saying they support Roe vs. Wade. Let us move on, because that is a fact. The principles that you've 
 
 been talking about, for instance, and let's talk about democracy, which people in the rest of the world are watching and, as you know, has been 
 
 made a big issue by the Democrats and by this administration.
 
So, you joined a group of Republicans in Texas to actually certify the 2020 election. You didn't vote to impeach Trump, but I wonder whether you would 
 
 still certify an election if Trump doesn't win, given that already there's a whole load of groundwork being laid, at least it appears so, given 
 
 President Trump and his allies own words at rallies and elsewhere, that they already are laying the groundwork to call -- to cry foul if they don't 
 
 win.
 
CRENSHAW:  Yes, we first have to start with a really important point, which is that the entire certification process, and I have to put that in 
 
 quotation marks. Certification process is completely illegal and unconstitutional. It was unconstitutional the last three times when 
 
 Democrats did it and it was unconstitutional last time when Republicans did it.
 
It's been unconstitutional this entire time. There's no -- the word certification is not in the constitution. There is no power for the vice 
 
 president or the Congress to certify or decertify an election. So, we have to start there. I think everybody should know that. Democrats opened the 
 
 door on this. They started it and it has become this accepted process ever since, which is really, really bad for our republic. So, let me start with 
 
 that.
 
To the extent that you don't certify -- I mean, you know, you're asking me hypotheticals in a situation that I can't predict. But I can say that the 
 
 entire process is wrong to begin with and what we should have done since then is clarify the law, because that particular law that we're in process 
 
 that we're following is based on the reconstruction era when there was actual shadow governments and shadow electors being sent to the Washington 
 
 and there had to be a methodology for sorting that out. That's obviously not what the case is right now.
 
So, I think we have to go back in time a little bit and tell some truth about what the actual process is and what the constitution says.
 
AMANPOUR:  OK. As you know, this is an issue that worries a lot of people for obvious reasons. Now, I do want to go back to asking you about your 
 
 experience working across the aisle. Because you have done that, you have a reputation for sometimes bucking party orthodoxy. The Houston Chronicle 
 
 highlighted that when they gave you their endorsement.
 <br>[13:10:00]
 
For instance, you worked across the aisle with a very progressive Democrat, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, on legislation to increase 
 
 research for funding of veterans with PTSD. You were also vocal calling Republicans that torpedoed the Senate's bipartisan immigration bill before 
 
 the bill was even released. You remember that? As the height of stupidity, that's what you said.
 
So, how difficult is it to actually do principled legislation when on some occasions, like this one, your party wouldn't even read it or bring it to 
 
 the floor before killing it?
 
CRENSHAW:  Yes, those are two such different scenarios. I mean, you can unpack both. I mean, yes. A bunch of members like AOC co-sponsored my 
 
 legislation. To say we all worked together is a little bit of a stretch. But yes, they -- we -- you know, some -- a lot of times and more times than 
 
 people realize we're passing bipartisan bills out of the Congress.
 
I mean, most laws that get put in -- actually signed into law are bipartisan kind of by necessity. So, it happens a lot more than people 
 
 realize and we shouldn't be -- and we should applaud that. We should make people feel better.
 
As far as bucking your own party, I mean, I don't even think this is the case. I've bucked my own party, my own narratives pretty handedly. In this 
 
 case, I simply stated what I think is the obvious, which is how can you have an opinion on something before you've read it? You know, and that's 
 
 what I call the height of stupidity. And I still feel that way.
 
You know, does it get you in trouble a little bit, but you know what, that's -- the truth can and often does and people don't want to hear a 
 
 truth that they don't want to hear. That's unfortunately the state we're in America, and frankly, across the world where emotion is the -- it's the 
 
 primary language that people want to speak as opposed to objective analysis, and I think that's a big problem.
 
AMANPOUR:  Look, I wonder whether you -- you are a vet, you've been a Navy SEAL, you've served your country. And I think Donald Trump's use of the 
 
 military, the language he uses, for those who've been injured or been killed in combat, losers, et cetera, and more -- and as importantly, when 
 
 he threatens to use the military and the National Guard against what he calls the enemy within, are you comfortable with that? This is actually a 
 
 very big question in a democracy, whether you actually set your military against your own people, which is, as far as I know, I think it's anti-
 
 constitutional in the United States.
 
CRENSHAW:  Yes, it would never happen. I'm not sure what, what quotes you're referring to. I know Trump speaks off the cuff and fires before he 
 
 thinks about it, right? That happens a lot. Does it mean he's going to do it? Of course not. And you might be able to justify those fears a little 
 
 bit more if you'd never seen him govern, but you saw him govern for four years. And it turns out that in those four years we had pretty normal 
 
 lives. We had a pretty good economy. We actually had pretty good foreign policy too, despite the -- many of the fears about what he was going to do 
 
 on the foreign policy front. He actually governed well.
 
Trump tends to understand the weight of the office that he holds and he does listen to advisers, good, smart people. So, four years to observe and 
 
 then also observe the outcomes associated with those four years, maybe I'd be more worried, but the reality is that those four years compared to 
 
 Kamala Harris' four years, I mean, they're night and day. And the outcomes associated with each of those four years, especially on the economy, 
 
 they're night and day. And especially on foreign policy as well. They're night and day. One is better. And Trump's is better. Harris' is not.
 
And so, that's what this election fundamentally is about. Again, I'm all for objective analysis. We can throw arrows at each other talking about 
 
 who's the worst person and who said what yesterday about so and so and how bad and mean they are because of it. Look, in the end, I want people to 
 
 think about one thing, which is what matters to you and your family at the kitchen table. And those things are the basics, right?
 
It's how expensive is your food at the grocery store? How fast is your -- how fast are your wages increasing under Trump? The lowest quintile of 
 
 earners wages increased like 15 percent overall 8 percent, under Biden, zero, because inflation canceled it all out. Mortgage rates doubled under 
 
 Biden. You know, the list goes on.
 
AMANPOUR:  OK. Can I -- 
 
CRENSHAW:  And all of this is indeed connected to policies that they put in place.
 
AMANPOUR:  Can I just do a little bit of like, you know, reporting? Because you probably saw The Economist, which is a very centrist, you know, 
 
 economic newspaper here, had a front page, of a cover saying, the American economy is the envy of the world, it's the strongest in the world.
 <br>[13:15:00]
 
We know that the economy added nearly 16 million jobs, 6.3 million higher than before the pandemic. This is under Biden. The unemployment rate 
 
 dropped, stayed lower. Crude oil has increased production. The U.S. economy has continued to expand under Biden, growing at 2.8 percent in the second 
 
 quarter. So, the economy, according to the rest of the world -- clearly people are hurting. But in general, the United States economy is the envy 
 
 of the world.
 
So, I just wanted to put that out there for people to understand. But I do actually want to ask you about, you say he says things that he doesn't mean 
 
 it. Well, others say he says it, listen to him, because he does mean it. And most importantly, I want to ask you for your feeling about, OK, last 
 
 time you say we got through it, you're using we as the United States got through it, and nobody went off a cliff.
 
Last time people will say there was some extremely experienced people in the administration around him acting as guardrails. This time they're 
 
 saying that they won't be there. Are you comfortable that there will be experts and guardrails to, you know, potentially stop Trump from his worst 
 
 instincts?
 
CRENSHAW:  Yes. Look, I mean, look no further than the America First Policy Institute. I think you're seeing a lot of the same names from the last 
 
 administration who will probably be in this next administration. So, again, I don't have the insider scoop on who exactly will be doing what, but I 
 
 have a pretty good idea. And this is especially important for foreign policy, let's say. You're going to have a pretty normal set of people 
 
 there.
 
And look, on the economy, I just want to say one thing. You have to connect policies to good economic outcomes. You can't just say, look, somebody is 
 
 president now, the economy is doing better, and I appreciate you at least said it right. Biden didn't create those jobs, the economy did, which is 
 
 exactly right. And we don't have access to a counterfactual multiverse, OK, where we can say, well, it would have been better or it would have been 
 
 worse had he not done this or this.
 
But you at least have to make -- and Democrats at least have to make the argument that we increase these jobs because of X, Y, and Z policies that 
 
 Biden put in place. The reality is what they've put in place, Biden and Harris have put in place, are trillions of dollars' worth of costs of 
 
 regulations, increase in taxes. They've done nothing that's pro-growth.
 
So, we are growing in many ways and we are doing better but that's despite those policies. And I can make the exact opposite argument under Trump when 
 
 you have tax cuts, when you have less regulations, all of these are pro- business, pro-growth policies. And so, the outcomes, are anticipated to be good, and exactly that, they were.
 
Biden inherited a recovering economy from COVID. You know, in the quarters previous to Biden taking office, the GDP was growing by 35 percent in one 
 
 quarter, and then 6 percent, and then 5 percent. Most of the gains of employment were happening because it was in recovery mode.
 
And so, you have to take all of that into context, if you're going to properly analyze who's doing a better job.
 
AMANPOUR:  OK.
 
CRENSHAW:  Rushing the economy and making sure that you have an easier time starting your small business.
 
AMANPOUR:  OK. So, from what I gather, you describe yourself as a Reagan Republican. So, that is, I guess in today's landscape, more moderate than 
 
 the MAGA Republicans, that's for sure. And I just wonder whether you're comfortable then, there is so many -- I mean like scores, dozens of Nobel 
 
 Peace Prize winning and other expert economists who've said that Trump's tariffs, Trump's tax, and other policies would cause a huge inflation 
 
 spike, and that is a tax, you know, on America, as we know, on Americans.
 
But also, that these people who work for him, from Milley to, you know, McMaster, to Mattis, to Bolton, to Kelly, to all these names, all these 
 
 people who've served their country, they're all coming out against him. I'm still trying to figure out why you think this is the best course. Liz 
 
 Cheney, Dick Cheney, you know, these are stalwarts of the party, they're voting for Kamala Harris.
 
CRENSHAW:  Yes, look, when I get my ballot and I'll vote sometime this week probably, early voting, here's what my ballot's going to say. It's not 
 
 going to say would you rather have Reagan? That's not what it's going to say. It's not going to say do you think Trump is the most perfect leader 
 
 ever? That's not what it's going to say. It's going to say, do you want to vote for Trump, or do you want to vote for Kamala Harris? That's what the 
 
 ballot's going to say.
 
So, that's why it's so easy to vote for Trump. Because, look -- and I mentioned this before. This is a unique election in that we have two 
 
 candidates where we have four years from each and the outcomes associated with each of those policies from four years, and we can compare them side 
 
 by side, because those four years are right next to each other.
 <br>[13:20:00]
 
That's quite the opportunity for Americans to be objective about that -- about how they're going to vote. And on every measure, and you can pick out 
 
 -- you can pick whatever topic you want, I'll happy -- I'm happy to discuss it. Trump wins out on each of those, whether it's foreign policy, whether 
 
 it's domestic economic policy, immigration policy for sure. These are the top of the list for American voters on the policy issues.
 
AMANPOUR:  OK.
 
CRENSHAW:  And so, I extricate myself from the personality wars and I look objectively at what the policies are, and how they're going to affect me 
 
 and my children for the next 50 years.
 
AMANPOUR:  Congressman Dan Crenshaw, thank you very much indeed. And I'm going to put some of that to our next guest, who is the Democratic 
 
 Congressperson -- well, running for Congress in New York, John Avlon.
 
So, crucial to whoever wins the Oval Office, of course, is which party controls Congress. And right now, Republicans hold a slim majority in the 
 
 House of Representatives. But it's in play, and hoping to swing the balance of power to the Democrats is, as I mentioned, Congressional Candidate John 
 
 Avlon. He is formerly a CNN political analyst. He's now turned to politics, running for New York's First Congressional District in Long Island. And up 
 
 against incumbent Republican Congressman Nick LaLota.
 
And John Avlon is joining me now from -- where are you from? You're joining me from New York, Long Island. John, I don't know whether you heard my 
 
 previous guest, Dan Crenshaw, basically said, you got your ballot, if it says Trump and Kamala Harris for sure, you put the two of them up against 
 
 each other on immigration, economy, foreign policy and the like, and there's no contest, Trump wins. What's your counter argument?
 
JOHN AVLON, DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE FOR NEW YORK STATE HOUSE:  I think that was a fact challenge argument driven by partisan obligations on the part of 
 
 the congressman, much of which his record I respect.
 
But I mean, character counts and the idea that we were living in some nirvana, four years ago, our nation, as with much of the world, was on the 
 
 way to a million COVID deaths, there was a skyrocketing unemployment, you know, are you better off you were four years ago? No question. We're better 
 
 off than we were four years ago.
 
But more to the point, the idea that Trump wasn't able to do much damage. I mean, put on your history lesson lens. You know, we had an attack on our 
 
 Capitol in the base back of a lie that Trump propagated. If a Democratic president had lied about an election, tried to overturn it that led to an 
 
 attack on a Capitol, I think Dan Crenshaw would be condemning that person and he'd be right to do it.
 
We need to stop this situational ethics. We need to put country over -- party principles over party. And the fact is, as you pointed out, that 40 
 
 of 44 cabinet officials who work for Donald Trump are warning that he's a threat to the Republic. Take that seriously. Take that real serious. And 
 
 that's the prism with which I think we should look at this election, the message America sends to the world if we reward someone for trying to 
 
 overturn an election on the back of a lie that led to an attack on our Capitol.
 
And then there's everything else from questions of reproductive freedom to rebuilding the middle and rebuilding the middle class and the policies in 
 
 action and why we need to make that change. Because one of the many arguments of this election, it seems to me, is that if God forbid, from my 
 
 perspective, Donald Trump is re-elected, Democrats controlling the House is a vital check and balance.
 
AMANPOUR:  So, let me ask you about that in a second, but I want to ask you, because you bring up the democracy piece, and obviously that's what 
 
 Kamala Harris has been, you know, doing. Do voters, let's say where you are, trying to get -- you know, trying to win this seat, do they feel that 
 
 is the most important issue for this election or is it about the economy?
 
And, you know, I cited a whole load of statistics from economists and others, which basically say that Biden's economy has been very strong, even 
 
 though prices have gone up for people and it's very painful for a certain sector of the population that -- in any event, what are you hearing about 
 
 the issues that matter most right now?
 
AVLON:  First of all, democracy is foundational. I think people are exhausted by the chaos. They want to move towards common ground, but 
 
 there's certainly kitchen table issues that have more immediacy issues of affordability. You pointed out that American economy is the envy of the 
 
 world, and I'd say the diner conversation around the economy has changed, but there's still a lot of frustration around affordability, particularly 
 
 here on Long Island. And that's where we talk about restoring the state and local tax deduction that Trump brought back -- took away, or, you know, 
 
 expanding the child tax credit.
 
But also, reproductive freedom. This is a fundamental issue and we're seeing very high turnout among women in particular in early voting. This, 
 
 as you correctly pointed out, a 75, 80 percent issue. I believe that decision should be between a woman, her doctor, and her God, not the 
 
 government.
 <br>[13:25:00]
 
And my opponent, for example, supports a 12-week abortion ban, said he'd vote for it, cheered the overturning of Roe v. Wade. That's incredibly out 
 
 of step with the vast majority of voters here, even a majority of Republicans are pro-choice here in the New York's 1st District. So, that's 
 
 a driving issue as well.
 
And there's frustration about border security for sure. But as you pointed out, Trump pulled the plug on a bipartisan border security bill that I'd 
 
 vote for on day one. So, I think those are clarifying issues that are at the top of people's mind, but don't dismiss democracy as an issue that 
 
 motivates people. Our country is something that people love and they are tired of the chaos and they want to move towards common ground.
 
AMANPOUR:  John, I wonder whether you think, and you're a retail politician now having, as I said, being a CNN colleague, being, you know, editor in 
 
 chief of the Daily Beast, an author, you know, an independent, you were registered independent at that time. Do you believe that on these big 
 
 issues, the economy and on immigration that the administration has actually told a successful story around the numbers?
 
Look, Trump claims that at least 21 million people have illegally crossed the border during the Biden administration. We checked the facts through 
 
 September, the country has recorded under 11 million nationwide encounters with migrants during the Biden administration, including millions who are 
 
 rapidly expelled from the country. The high-end estimate is that about 2 million have crossed during the Biden administration. So, that's one set of 
 
 facts on migration and immigration.
 
And then, of course, violent crime has gone down in cities. That -- I don't know whether it's getting out. You tell me what people are saying. And as 
 
 we said, the economy, as you said, people hurt, but in general, the macroeconomy is doing better than in most parts of the developed world.
 
AVLON:  Yes. And that's a compared to what people can't feel. I think a lot of these things are lagging indicators. And I think the administration can 
 
 tell the story more strongly, particularly around immigration. We've seen border crossings down dramatically since July, but they were too high in 
 
 the first place. And we need that bipartisan border security bill.
 
On the economy, I think, you know, we're moving in the right direction, but it'll never be fast enough. That's why it's important to point out facts. 
 
 We can have a fact-based debate. It's important to have a fact-based debate around crime. I'm a tough on crime guy, worked for Rudy Giuliani once upon 
 
 a time. But the fact is that violent crime rose under Donald Trump and it's fallen under Joe Biden.
 
I think narratives are stubborn things, particularly in an era of partisan -- hyper partisan media ecosystems, where people get their talking points, 
 
 and you see people become captive to those talking points, particularly in partisan structures. You heard Dan Crenshaw just do it a moment ago, where 
 
 he couldn't confront certain facts because he's got a party to answer to, even though he can be independent on some issues.
 
The other night in my debate, my opponent couldn't -- Nick LaLota couldn't even bring himself to criticize Donald Trump's praise of Hitler, which I 
 
 thought was the lowest bar in American politics, but apparently, it's not because of this atmosphere of fear. And I think that's what people are sick 
 
 of.
 
You know, I've been focused on rebuilding the middle of our politics, rebuilding the middle of our economy. We need to take action on areas that 
 
 are of deep concern, like border security, so that -- just like Democrats in particular need to be tough on crime because people -- you know, if 
 
 people feel unsafe, they'll put other things to the side.
 
But the fact is, there's more than unites us than divides us. Polls show that. Our politics doesn't reflect it. But that's what people need and want 
 
 to see. And when Republicans take positions that are outside the vast majority of the American people, like on choice, they're on the wrong side. 
 
 Look at Mike Johnson taking a shot across the bow of the Affordable Care Act today.
 
AMANPOUR:  Yes.
 
AVLON:  Which covers pre-existing conditions. Non-forced air. That's going to hurt.
 
AMANPOUR:  I meant to ask Representative Crenshaw this, but you remember at the -- you mentioned Mike Johnson, you remember at the Madison Square 
 
 Garden rally, Trump said something like, we have a secret or something, don't we, Mike? Do you know what that was referring to?
 
AVLON:  Well, I, of course, can't get in his head. But the concern is that refers to an attempt which we've already seen. Remember, this is why 
 
 accountability is important. Without accountability, attempts to overturn elections are just practice. And already we've seen Donald Trump do what he 
 
 has done in the past, which is sow seeds of doubt in the election results unless he wins.
 
And there is some concern. We passed an electoral count reform, and Crenshaw was on the right side of that vote. But 139 House Republicans 
 
 voted to overturn the election after the attack on the Capitol. And the fact that the election lie has been used as a litmus test for loyalty 
 
 should be chilling to anyone who believes in a fact-based debate.
 
So, the concern is, is there's going to be an attempt to create uncertainty or threats of violence around the election, as we saw last time. And that's 
 
 what we can't permit. That's why there's the opportunity and the obligation to build a broad bipartisan coalition. I mean, a coalition, a big tent 
 
 that's big enough, as you said, with Dick and Liz Cheney to Bernie Sanders.
 <br>[13:30:00]
 
And you know, that's the biggest political tent I've ever seen because it's about putting country over party, and putting our democracy first. And 
 
 that's what we need to do right now. And the inability to call out Trump where you're saying he'd use the military against American citizens, 
 
 talking about the enemy within, he's heard those talks. He can't just dismiss them. That's a willful attempt to ignore something we've already 
 
 seen and experienced. And that's why we all need to be wide awake in America right now.
 
AMANPOUR:  I mean, Trump did go so far as to say that the enemy within is more dangerous than Kim Jong Un. In any event, he's the dictator of North 
 
 Korea. Can I ask you about your own race? Because as we said, not just because I'm interviewing you, but it looks like, you know, these districts 
 
 in New York and your district could be amongst those that have a big ripple effect and might lead to flipping the House if you win.
 
So, you've gotten very close. Your district has been a Republican district, red for 10 years. The polls say the Newsday/Siena College poll has you only 
 
 three points behind, and we put this up. LaLota, your opponent at 47 percent, Avlon, you, at 44 percent. And Representative Steve Israel says 
 
 the fact that this district is even in play is pleasantly surprising for national Democrats. So, talk to me about it.
 
AVLON:  This is a swing district. It was held before Lee Zeldin for a Republican. It was held by Tim Bishop, a Democrat. It's actually been held 
 
 by Democrats the majority of the time. But this is a classic swing district. It's a purple district in a blue state. And I think that's 
 
 exactly where we can make some gains, because it demands the politics of addition, not division. They're actually more registered independent voters 
 
 in our district here than any other district in New York State.
 
And I think you're seeing the enthusiasm for Donald Trump has fallen. The hardcore supporters are still intense, but there is not that broad based 
 
 support that there was. Instead, we have Republicans for Avlon, which has been an important part of building that broad coalition. Because people -- 
 
 if they're Reagan Republicans, Bush Republicans, want to turn the page on this craziness. They want to move past this tribal divide. And I think 
 
 that's one of the reasons we're seeing momentum.
 
You know, that poll you showed was a week ago, but it showed clear momentum in our direction, and that's neck and neck within the margin of error. So, 
 
 I like very much where we are. I believe we are fighting the good fight.
 
And it's really about putting country over party, as you mentioned. I'm not a party first person. I'm a country over party guy. I wasn't independent 
 
 when I was a journalist, and I see this as a continuity of the fact-based fight. I've tried to wage against hyper partisanship, warning about those 
 
 dangers because they're so clear and present right now.
 
But here on Long Island, on the eastern end of Long Island, we're seeing that broad patriotic coalition coming together, and the energy and the 
 
 momentum is on our side, and I think that's where we can help reset American politics, rebuild the middle, and restore faith that we can reason 
 
 together again using common facts to pursue the common good. That, to me, is common sense. That's the core of this campaign, and that's why I believe 
 
 we will win here.
 
AMANPOUR:  Well, so, this is a little bit to what you're saying. Last night, Kamala Harris sought to portray, you know, Trump as a certain way 
 
 and sought to sort of try to say that she was there to try to bring Americans together as opposed to dividing them. Let's just play this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  America, this is not a candidate for president who is thinking 
 
 about how to make your life better. This is someone who is unstable, obsessed with revenge, consumed with grievance, and out for unchecked 
 
 power.
 
And to people who disagree with me, unlike Donald Trump, I don't believe people who disagree with me are the enemy. He wants to put them in jail. 
 
 I'll give them a seat at the table.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMANPOUR:  So, on the one hand, you know, denigrating Trump, on the other hand, talking about a big tent, as you've been saying, how does that kind 
 
 of rhetoric land in your district?
 
AVLON:  I think it resonates well, because it has the added advantage of being true. You know, she's committed to putting Republicans in her 
 
 cabinet. There are prominent Republicans supporting her quite intensely down the stretch, Liz Cheney, Adam Kinzinger, Arnold Schwarzenegger, just 
 
 today. And I think Americans yearn for that kind of unity government, and it's up to her, should she win, and I believe she will, that -- to build 
 
 that kind of a broad coalition. That's what our times demand.
 
But what she described Donald Trump is not hyperbole, it's what his own generals, his own cabinet members are saying about him. And that's the 
 
 danger and the disconnect. And what I think is we just need to get past the situational ethics that seek to excuse what you would condemn in front of 
 
 anybody else, or even just think about it more simple terms.
 <br>[13:35:00]
 
Last night I was at a -- speaking in front of a Meet the Candidates PTA at a high school in Dix Hills. And I looked at the kids in the room and their 
 
 parents and I thought, what message will we be sending to our children? About just character, about basic virtues, about not lying and dividing and 
 
 threatening, but instead, really leaning into the belief that there's more than unites us than divides us. And trying to govern that way, that's the 
 
 challenge.
 
You know, the dangers to Democratic Republics always come from hyper partisanship. And that's why we need to police our own extremes on our 
 
 respective sides. And we need to really rebuild the middle. And restore a sense that we can together again, especially facing the autocratic threats 
 
 abroad that want to denigrate our democracies and divide us. The stakes couldn't be higher.
 
AMANPOUR:  Yes. Let me ask you -- 
 
AVLON:  This is -- watching, but so are our kids.
 
AMANPOUR:  Indeed. And let me ask you about the gender divide, as I asked Representative Crenshaw. Michelle Obama appealed to women, but also to men 
 
 on the issue of women's health, women's rights, et cetera. How is the gender divide playing in your district?
 
AVLON:  We're seeing it in early voting. We're seeing a turnout among women higher than among men. I think that's a reflection of the underlying 
 
 frustration, and it may be hard to capture in polls, whether it's young women who are difficult to poll or Republican women who are standing up and 
 
 sending a message.
 
I think it's a fundamental issue in this campaign. It's a fundamental issue. And I think it's going to be one of the great stories of this 
 
 election. This isn't a chance for us to come together and get past all this, but women maybe leading the way right now, and we need to walk with 
 
 them, and Dobbs dads are part of that coalition.
 
AMANPOUR:  Really interesting. Thank you so much for your perspective. John Avlon, running for Congress in the 1st District of New York for the 
 
 Democratic Party.
 
Now, one challenge that faces Democrats is securing working class votes. The party is increasingly viewed as being for the educated and the elite. 
 
 But this wasn't always the case, so how did they get there? Author and historian Timothy Shenk provides some answers in his new book, "Left 
 
 Adrift," which explores how the Democratic Party has evolved over the past 50 years. And he speaks to Michel Martin about its impact on the upcoming 
 
 election.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHEL MARTIN, CONTRIBUTOR:  Thanks, Christiane. Tim Shenk, thank you so much for talking with us.
 
TIMOTHY SHENK, AUTHOR, "LEFT ADRIFT":  Thank you for having me.
 
MARTIN:  So, your book is very much an argument against what you see as the prevailing narrative about the direction of the Democratic Party. So, just 
 
 to get us started, would you tell us what you think that dominant narrative is? And then, I'm going to ask you obviously why you think it's wrong.
 
SHENK:  So, the core understanding of how Democrats got to where they are today, which is a party that does really well with educated professionals 
 
 and often with poor voters, but struggles with the working and lower middle class. I think that the core story often argues that this happened sort of 
 
 loss of support with working class voters took place because Democrats wanted it to, that somewhere in the '60s or '70s that Democrats win it all 
 
 in on the pursuit of affluent college educated suburbanites, and that therefore, today, they're almost being punished for their sins. And that's 
 
 a story that, to me, made a lot of sense before I started digging into the research for this book, but that started to fall apart almost right away.
 
MARTIN:  OK. So, what do you think is right? If that's wrong, what is correct in your view?
 
SHENK:  What I found -- and really the characters who the book focuses on, are Stan Greenberg and Doug Schoen, who are both political advisers at the 
 
 upper levels of the Democratic Party, and both of them were advisers especially to Bill Clinton during his two presidential campaigns. Now, 
 
 Greenberg and Schoen might not be exactly household names, but their partners are.
 
So, for Greenberg, it's James Carville. The two of them work together for the first time on Clinton's '92 campaign, then go into business after that. 
 
 And for Schoen, it's Mark Penn, who -- they were longtime partners, Penn and Schoen, they go into Clinton together. And then, Penn really becomes a 
 
 celebrity figure after Clinton's '96 campaign.
 
Now, the useful thing about Greenberg and Schoen is that in addition being strategists, they were also academics, or at least they both wrote doctoral 
 
 dissertations that come out in the '60s and the '70s that are looking at struggles with working class voters that Democrats and other center left 
 
 parties like Labour in the U.K. were looking at those struggles taking place in real-time. And they come up with theories to explain what's 
 
 happening, big picture explanations of the type that you don't normally get from consultants.
 
Now, Greenberg and Schoen disagreed about a lot of things, and the book is to an extent about their disagreement, but one area where they did converge 
 
 was the sense that, coming out of the 1960s with the rise of a whole host of culturally polarized, really divisive social issues moving into the 
 
 center of politics, that this put Democrats in a really awkward position with a lot of their historic base in the working class. And neither of them 
 
 took working class support for granted. In fact, they thought that would be essential for Democrats to win.
 <br>[13:40:00]
 
So, the fact that these advisers to Bill Clinton, who's often cast as the key figure in this neoliberal transformation of the Democratic Party, the 
 
 fact that his key strategists are saying no, no, no, working class voters are really crucial, to me, this indicated that something a lot more 
 
 complicated than just Democrats say farewell to the working class. Therefore, they lose working class votes. Something more complicated was 
 
 going on.
 
MARTIN:  And, you know, your book was really interesting because it does revisit some of the ground that we're sort of plowing now in the current 
 
 campaign. The thing, though, that really stands out, though, is the way that the Republicans really have leaned in on these cultural issues, right. 
 
 I see your argument that this wasn't intentional, but is the conclusion here really that some people have to get left on some of these culture war 
 
 issues, that that's the only way to keep coalitions together?
 
SHENK:  So, one important point to keep in mind, I think, is that one reason why the Trump appeals to that are leaning into the culture or one 
 
 reason why he has an opening today is because there were some real failures in the Biden years and especially, the fact that for a lot of Americans 
 
 real incomes fell in those first two years, that the transition from pandemic life was really hard for lots of people and that a lot of Biden 
 
 folks were saying at the same time, though this is the best economy in the world, that the economic recovery is the greatest story never told, that 
 
 that sort of tone deafness costs them a lot.
 
And then, I think the other point to keep in mind is that some my own politics are often they -- this book is partly about how once upon a time 
 
 the Democratic Party's base was in unions, now it is universities, like, listen, I'm a college professor, I have all the standard issue, college 
 
 professor, blue America opinions, but, one of the arguments of the book and something that I got to by seeing how Sam Greenberg and Doug Schoen, for 
 
 all their problems, whatever faults you want to point out, at their best they were really committed to trying to figure out just what ordinary 
 
 voters were thinking about the world.
 
And one reason why they did this, listen, they are consultants. It made for a good life. But they also had an argument. And the argument was that in a 
 
 democracy, whatever else it has to be, it should be a system for turning public opinion into public policy. Because in the long run, you're just -- 
 
 there's no other real alternative.
 
Because if you ignore the public for long enough, then eventually someone is going to come along who responds to voters on an issue they care about. 
 
 And if you're someone progressive politics, there's a good chance it'll be someone from the right with a lot of positions that you don't like.
 
Where I think a lot of progressives fall into a trap is that they assume that it's either capitulation to the worst parts of politics or standing up 
 
 boldly in defense of ideals that maybe they won't be supported by the public at large now, but you'll be vindicated by history eventually. And I 
 
 think those either-or framings often do the very people we want to help a disservice. And that if, for instance, on immigration, you adopt this or 
 
 more of a both and perspective where you assume that there are a lot of people out there who don't want ultra-draconian measures of deportation, 
 
 camps, armed troops, roving cities, they don't want that, but they do want order at the border.
 
I don't think that's an insane position, even if it's not my own. And it is a way for progressive politicians to meet voters where they are now on 
 
 their concerns so that you can persuade them over the long run.
 
MARTIN:  So, let's go back to civil rights, because that is generally understood as sort of the first great realignment, right? I mean, it was an 
 
 explicit strategy of Richard Nixon and his supporters to, you know, persuade working class whites that -- you know, that the Democrats had gone 
 
 all in on civil rights and that those aren't your people.
 
So, I guess my question is, can you look back at civil rights as like that first great kind of realignment and say, is there something that Democrats 
 
 should have done differently that would basically instruct us for today around these issues that are so -- you know, that are so emotional and so 
 
 deeply ingrained for some people, even if those aren't your politics?
 
SHENK:  And so, one important point to keep in mind is that even if 1968 is the election where you see the crack up of the New Deal coalition taking 
 
 place, where it's Richard Nixon and George Wallace, who is running as a third-party candidate this year, combined, they went about 57 percent of 
 
 the vote. So, that is a sign that this New Deal coalition, something is going wrong there.
 
But another point to keep in mind, the 1964 Civil Rights Act passes in 1964. What happens almost immediately after, Lyndon Johnson, who signs that 
 
 act, wins one of the biggest majorities in American history with the support of most of the south. Barry Goldwater does pick up some deep South 
 
 states, but Lyndon Johnson does -- turns in a historically strong performance that year.
 
And coming out of that experience, the great civil rights strategist Bayard Rustin writes an article called "From Protest to Politics," and his 
 
 argument there is that with the major gains of the first wave of the civil rights movement having been achieved with -- because of legislation like 
 
 the Civil Rights Act, now the movement has to move on to the harder and but ultimately, more significant work of basically redistributing economic 
 
 resources. From civil issues, it has to move to economic issues.
 <br>[13:45:00]
 
And the only way Rustin argues that the movement can pull this off is by embracing electoral politics, working to create a majority that's grounded 
 
 in working class voters, a bottom-up coalition that crosses racial lines that will be devoted to leveling the playing field in a game that's tilted 
 
 toward the rich.
 
And what's striking to me is that broad vision, it's something that influences among others, Stan Greenberg, this key character in my book, who 
 
 is a grad student in Harvard at the time, he volunteers for Bobby Kennedy's '68 campaign and writes a report about how he sees that Rustin style 
 
 working class coalition taking shape for Bobby Kennedy.
 
And it's also influential, among others, on Barack Obama, whose own campaign strategy in both 2008 and 2012, oh, it's a lot more to this Rustin 
 
 vision of how to campaign effectively than I think is often recognized.
 
It's really the 2016 Clinton campaign that marks a departure from this strategy that United figures as different as Stan Greenberg, who's 
 
 architect of the it's the economy stupid '92 campaign all the way to Barack Obama.
 
So, one argument for the book, and this is just tied up with my own politics, is that if we're thinking about ways that we can make a 
 
 difference, especially for working class people, for poor people, it is reforms that promote greater access, greater equality for jobs, housing, 
 
 education, healthcare. This matters for people's -- it matters profoundly for people's daily life. And the way that you get there is with a big 
 
 majority coalition that can push through all the restraints that exist in the lawmaking process in the United States and really make a difference.
 
MARTIN:  Do you think there's something fundamentally wrong with the Democratic Party at this point in our history? Is there a fundamental 
 
 critique of the Democratic Party that you would make?
 
SHENK:  So, one reason why the book is called "Left Adrift" and not left in a ditch somewhere where no hope can ever penetrate is because I don't think 
 
 that either electorally speaking that Democrats are in this disastrous state. No, no. They've won the popular vote. And what is it? It will -- if 
 
 Kamala wins this year, it will be something like eight of the last nine elections. That is a historic run.
 
They are capable of winning in states as diverse as Kentucky and Kansas, states that you might write off as the reddest of red will elect Democratic 
 
 governors. We see, again, the success of abortion rights measures across much of the country. So, it's not as if the Democratic Party is an 
 
 electoral shipwreck.
 
And I don't think it's the case that the left is in ruins either. I think adrift captures the state of the party and the state of the left because, 
 
 to me, it suggests that both a party and a movement that have many, many competing goals that it values, but no sense of real priorities. What it 
 
 means to be a Democrat, that very simple answer. I think for a lot of people, what it means more than anything now is resistance. That ever since 
 
 Donald Trump got on that golden escalator, Democrats have become the party of resistance. They've been opposed to whatever Trump is, which means that 
 
 you end up letting Trump set the agenda.
 
And I think that a party like that, no matter what its structural ambitions are, one, I think it's going to have a hard time winning the big majorities 
 
 that you need to push through structural change. And two, I think it is kind of an inherently conservative party, where you're giving up on the 
 
 energy that comes from taking on the status quo, when you say the status quo must be defended against Donald Trump at all times.
 
And while I understand the electoral rationale behind this kind of thing Charli XCX to Liz Cheney coalition right now, I think that the future of a 
 
 stronger Democrat Party would be one where it had a much clearer vision of what it stood for, which would be a Democrat Party that could explain where 
 
 it went astray in some of the Biden years with presiding over this sort of -- this spike in inflation that resulted in this downtick in standard of 
 
 living for so many Americans.
 
So, the failure of Harris to be able to clearly and succinctly explain why she would be different from Biden, why voters who feel so angry right now, 
 
 I think that you can't speak to that anger unless you can acknowledge that there are more things that have gone astray in our politics than just 
 
 Donald Trump. And until Democrats get that right, I think they're going to be facing a big problem.
 
MARTIN:  One of the things you say in the book is, today -- you're speaking more generally about the left, you write, today, it owes more to 
 
 universities than to unions, and its coalition looks like an alliance between professionals and the poor, where the virtues of diversity are 
 
 obvious but solidarity is harder to come by, especially with the middle of the electorate.
 
So, OK. I know it's going to sound like a -- but what's so terrible about having a party that cares a lot about what educated people think?
 
SHENK:  Well, as one of those educated people, I'm in no position to say that we should be completely ignored. But what I would say to my fellow 
 
 college educated blue leaning professionals is that we get to be on the bus and it is hard to imagine a winning Democratic Party that doesn't have our 
 
 votes at this point.
 
So, yes, we get to be on the bus, but we don't get to drive the bus, and that we don't have the numbers to justify this, and that it's very easy for 
 
 us to forget that our good intentions might not map on to a lot of people's daily lives, and that if we are as empathetic and educated and 
 
 understanding as we say we are, then having empathy for people who are just trying to make it through a daily life where things are really hard for 
 
 lots of people, and who -- a lot of working class Americans who understand that they're playing a game that is rigged against them.
 <br>[13:50:00]
 
If you believe in democracy, that's something that's really noble too. So, having progressive college educated Americans get out of our own heads on 
 
 this stuff, that is also part of what means to believe in democracy.
 
MARTIN:  OK. But what is the evidence that this drift toward universities or progressive college educated Americans is leading the party astray? Give 
 
 me an example of that.
 
SHENK:  All right. So, one point is that we do see that a shift like this is happening around much of the world today, and that as the left has 
 
 picked up ground with college educated voters it often struggles with working class voters.
 
And you can see, for instance, the climate change bill recently. While this is good, important, long-term legislation on climate change, it's also a 
 
 fact that for a lot of disproportionately working class Americans what they care most about is the price of gas at the pump, the cost of electricity 
 
 because paying that heating bill, especially when you have a family to feed, that is difficult stuff.
 
And I think forgetting to deal with the cost of energy in the short-term is one case, while you are building up climate policy over the long-term, 
 
 again, it's about delivering in the immediate run that those of us who don't worry about the heating bill in the same way, it's easy to ignore.
 
MARTIN:  So, as you and I are speaking now we -- just -- there's just no way to know what the outcome is going to be, even if the election is 
 
 actually going to be decided on November 5th. But let's assume, for the sake of argument, that Kamala Harris does win, what should she do to get 
 
 the ship right as it were? To put the Democratic Party on course for a more lasting electoral victories, not just at the presidency, but in state 
 
 legislatures, for example, and the Congress, where things -- you know, where things have real meaning for people as well?
 
SHENK:  So, I think keeping up some of those important Biden administration measures that are building up power over the long runs or keeping up the 
 
 turn toward a more pro-labor politics, for instance, I think that's essential for long-term -- the long-term health of the party. But I think 
 
 it's also crucial for Democrats to pay more attention to those crisis over the cost of living that's been unfolding around rising cost of housing, 
 
 rising cost of health care, rising cost of child care, making sure that you can show that government can make a real difference in people's daily lives 
 
 while making sure that those macroeconomic conditions, keeping up low unemployment, and making sure that inflation really is behind us.
 
If you have a party that can do that while also delivering on the improvements in immigration that have taken place over the last year, that 
 
 these are great of immigration and legal immigration in particular has fallen under Biden. I think one reason why Republicans aren't in a stronger 
 
 position right now is really they are running against the United States of 2021 and allowing Democrats to consolidate the gains that they've made in 
 
 the last couple of years, putting a fresh face on those policies and moving with serious solutions to address the cost-of-living crisis.
 
There's no guarantees in politics, and there's a lot that could go wrong. But those issues, I think, to make a real difference for the party.
 
MARTIN:  OK. Let's do the other thought exercise and say that Donald Trump is elected president again. What did the Democrats do then?
 
SHENK:  So, one advantage that they'll have is just the nature of the party in opposition, especially when that opposition, if you're right about 
 
 Donald Trump, and I think you are, if he's coming into office with a team of bureaucrats behind them -- who, behind him, who actually know how to get 
 
 stuff done, it is basically inevitable that they will overreach and that will put Democrats in a really strong position to speak for, again, that 
 
 middle ground of opinion, that on issues like immigration, not happy about what's happened at the by the border under Biden, but also doesn't want to 
 
 go back to family separation, being able to point to the excesses of the Trump administration and making sure that they stake out a position, 
 
 Democrats do, where they are speaking for those concerns for the majority of the country, as opposed to just assuming that whatever Donald Trump 
 
 says, the maximally opposite position is always wrong, -- is always right.
 
And that if the electorate didn't work out -- if voters didn't give us what we wanted this time, then the answer is ramping up on the lawfare pursuit 
 
 of the Trump administration. You know, go after Trump illegalities when they're justified, but make it clear to Americans that your concerns are 
 
 their concerns and that your position meets them where they are.
 
MARTIN:  Five years from now, what do you want to see? If we have a conversation about where the Democratic Party is, what do you want that 
 
 conversation to be?
 
SHENK:  A party that has moved beyond just the party of resistance and that has gone against this natural tendency to just further double down on 
 
 making -- on winning the suburbs to make up for losses with working class voters, yes, in rural America, but also increasingly with African American 
 
 and Hispanic working class voters and cities where even if they're not supporting Donald Trump, they're not showing up at the polls.
 
So, a party that has not just gone further down the road to this suburbanized gentrified coalition of opposition to whatever a Trumpified 
 
 Republican Party is doing, but a party that has found its voice and reconnected with a broad swath of its former electorate.
 
MARTIN:  Tim Shenk, thank you so much for speaking with us.
 
SHENK:  Thank you so much for having me.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[13:55:00]
 
AMANPOUR:  And finally, tonight, all eyeballs on baseball. Well, certainly that's the case in Japan, where millions and millions of people are glued 
 
 to the World Series to watch the New York Yankees try to stay in the game against the L.A. Dodgers. It's such mania that Japan is racking up higher 
 
 TV ratings than in the United States, which is nearly three times the population.
 
Now, what has driven this craze? Well, homegrown hero and Dodgers player Shohei Ohtani. And crowds are gathering in Japan bright and early to cheer 
 
 him on.
 
That's it for now. Thank you for watching, and goodbye from London.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:00]
 
END