Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Former Boxer Mike Tyson to Fight Social Media Influencer Jake Paul; Donald Trump Selects Robert F. Kennedy Jr. as His Nominee for Health and Human Services Secretary; Rep. Abigail Spanberger (D-VA) Interviewed on President-Elect Trump's Controversial Picks to Fill Cabinet Roles; Reporting Indicates Trump Administration Will Not Use FBI Background Checks on Some of His Nominees; Rudy Giuliani Faces Deadline in $148M Defamation Judgment; US Air Force Speaks to CNN on Defending Against Iran Drone Attacks. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired November 15, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: This is kind of where we are. Whether you love this or you hate this, it's happening tonight. Everybody logging onto to Netflix to watch how this goes down. Fifty- eight-years-old, a former heavyweight champ, Mike Tyson squaring off against a 27-year-old social media influencer turned fighter in Jake Paul. The gloves off already, like Berman said. Tyson slapping Paul across the face with that open-hander at yesterday's weigh-in. The two were separated by security. Tyson said he got his foot stepped on, but here's both of them after the incident. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE PAUL:  I didn't even feel it. He's angry. He's an angry little elf. Mike Tyson, I thought that was a cute slap, buddy, but tomorrow you're getting knocked the -- out. Come on! Come on! He hits like a -- it's personal now! Its personal now! He must die! 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Mike, can I ask, the world is excited to see you one last time, perhaps. Can you just tell us the emotions, the thoughts that are going through your mind right now? 
 
MIKE TYSON, FORMER PROFESSIONAL BOXER:  Talking is over. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Why did you push him there? All right, that's it. That's it for Mike Tyson. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO:  This is Tyson's first professional fight in 19 years. Paul has built a 10 and one record, John, in his six-year boxing career. Six of those wins coming by knockout. This is certainly going to be his most high-profile fight to date by a long shot. We will see what happens. Interesting generational experiment when you consider that one has been on the planet twice as long as the other. And we'll see who's rooting for who, but certainly, everybody is going to be watching. JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  I don't know if it's an inspiration that you
 
 can box deep into your 50s, but maybe an inspiration that you can wear those sort of Versace, you know, speedo-ish things. That is an inspiration to us all. 
 
Carolyn Manno, thank you very much. 
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts now. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  President-Elect Donald Trump bypassing the FBI background checks for some of his nominees. Who is officially in and what's behind the scenes, what is going on.
 
Pinned in the skies, running out of missiles, shooting at any drones they could -- we're hearing exclusively from U.S. Air Force pilots that took on a swarm of Iranian drones that targeted Israel earlier this year. How they made it out alive, that story is ahead. 
 
And after 16 years behind bars, a judge has vacated a Minnesota man's murder conviction. How an unreliable star witness, reality TV, and a questionable photo lineup set him free. 
 
I'm Sara Sidner with Kate Bolduan and John Berman. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Election Day was 10 days ago. Since then, in the words of Ron Burgundy, boy, that escalated quickly. The president- elect moving fast to get his administration in place, and with that, making some not surprising yet still highly controversial picks for his cabinet. Donald Trump tapped RFK Jr. for secretary of Health and Human Services, that's just one, following through on his promise after Kennedy dropped his own bid for president and gave his support to Donald Trump. 
 
Trump also announced a much less controversial choice for secretary of the interior, Doug Burgum, and then tapped his own defense lawyer, Todd Blanche, to be deputy attorney general. With these announcements, CNN has learned that many of Trumps nominees are not being subject to a standard FBI background check. 
 
CNN's David Chalian is here with me now for one big thing to start your day. D. Chal, start me off. So Donald Trump essentially, and we're talking about RFK, he essentially promised this was coming when it comes to giving RFK some sort of big job, go wild on public health, and he followed through. What kind of impact is this nomination going to have, do you think? 
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR:  Well, yes, you are right. Anybody that paid attention to Donald Trump on the campaign trail should not surprised that Robert F. Kennedy Jr. ended up where he is, despite, we know, the transition co-chair talking to Kaitlan Collins a few weeks ago, suggesting that he would not end up as HHS secretary. 
 
Listen, you guys talked to Sanjay Gupta before. The ramifications are far and wide, there's no doubt about that. And although it is a controversial pick because of some of Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s views, I'm not sure that this is the pick that somehow Senate Republicans are going to say Donald Trump can't have his guy. I don't know if they're going to do that with any of these picks, but this one probably unlikely. RFK Jr. was such a critical component to the general election campaign for Donald Trump, bring along his supporters, a couple of places he was still on the ballot. This was a key partnership, as you know, we watched it unfold in real time. And this is what a reward looks like. 
 <br>[08:05:02]
 
BOLDUAN:  And you make a great point. In the places where he was still on the ballot, remember even on Election Day, he was saying, do not vote for me, vote for Donald Trump. And that's exactly what you're talking about. You mentioned the Senate. Go ahead.
 
CHALIAN:  And remember, Kate, he started the cycle as a Democratic primary opponent to Joe Biden. That's where RFK Jr. actually started this campaign cycle. 
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes, 17 years ago, is what that feels like at this point. 
 
You mentioned the Senate, and one big unknown. Despite -- I mean, we heard from even John Thune, the new Republican leader, last night, and I'm still not clear exactly what the Senate is going to do with regard to their job of advise and consent. When they have the power to confirm these cabinet level nominees, are they going to hold on to that power, or are they going to abdicate it and hand it over to the White House? When do you think we're going to know? 
 
CHALIAN:  Oh, I think this is going to take a little time to play out, because you're going to have sort of the public vetting of these candidates, just sort of journalists, opposition researchers, the material that will come in the public that we may not already know about some of these nominees. But then you're also going to have confirmation hearings. And you know they can play a critical role here in sort of swaying the minds of senators as well as the public, too. 
 
But Kate, the Republicans are likely to have 53 Republican senators, right? So that means that Democrats would have to remain totally unified in opposition to a Trump nomination and peel off four Republicans. So where are those Republicans going to come from? You would first maybe look to people like Susan Collins or Lisa Murkowski, two Republicans who are known to sort of buck Trump at times, but not always. And Susan Collins just indicated that she is likely to run for reelection in 2026. 
 
There are going to be cross-currents, especially inside potential Republican primaries, to pressure all Republican senators to give Donald Trump the cabinet he seeks. 
 
BOLDUAN:  "Fascinating" is one word to say for what we are about to play out over gosh knows how long. Good to see you, David. Thank you so much. 
 
John? BERMAN:  With us now is Democratic Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger,
 
 who serves on the intelligence committee and is a former CIA case member. Congresswoman, thank you so much for being with us. You have written about your concerns of the announcement of the nomination of Tulsi Gabbard, former member of Congress, former Democratic member of Congress, to be Director of National Intelligence. You have said that you are concerned what it means for national security. Why? 
 
REP. ABIGAIL SPANBERGER, (D-VA):  Well, this is not about party, this is not about partisan politics, this is not about President-elect Trump. This is about our national security. And the reality is that anyone who would traffic in conspiracy theories, who would align themselves with Bashar al-Assad after he used chemical weapons against his civilian population or align herself with Vladimir Putin should not have the role of Director of National Intelligence. It is an essential role that, frankly, most people have never heard of because every single day, the DNI works to ensure that our intelligence community is cooperating, is sharing information, and ultimately is focused on the singular mission of protecting the United States of America and the American people. And Tulsi Gabbard is a dangerous pick for this role. 
 
BERMAN:  CNN is reporting this morning that Trump will not use the FBI to vet all of his cabinet selections, background checks, as nominees have in the past, instead, going to use some kind of private security firm. What do you think might be missed by not having FBI background checks on Tulsi Gabbard? 
 
SPANBERGER:  This is an alarming step that frankly should alarm every American citizen who wants the basic function of government to work, who wants to ensure that the FBI, as you were reporting earlier, is able to investigate terrorist threats, that can ensure that our intelligence community is able to recognize the threats posed from enemies abroad against the United States homeland. And the fact that they would avoid a traditional background check process, to me, means that they know they can't pass it. And what it means is that information that would be available to the FBI just won't even be considered. The idea that there would be a total step away from the guardrails that are meant to keep the American people safe is a dangerous possibility. 
 
BERMAN:  Why wouldn't she pass an FBI background check, as you just suggested? 
 
SPANBERGER:  Well, background checks throughout, for intelligence community officers, and so I'm a former CIA case officer. I worked undercover for my time with the agency. 
 <br>[08:10:04]
 
And you go through an extraordinary, in-depth process between polygraphs and a full -- for me, it was a multi-year process, right? Because it is important to know that there is no one or no entity that may have any information about an intelligence officer, about someone working in a position of extraordinary public trust, that might be used against them. And so the reality is, any effort to move away from the traditional background check process, to not process someone, to determine what risks may be there or what might come to the public purview through the confirmation process, it is a ridiculously strange precedent to put forth, but it is one that potentially endangers American national security. 
 
BERMAN:  I'm glad you did not get hit by that rolling trash bin behind you right there, Congresswoman. 
 
Listen, Robert Kennedy Jr., Tulsi Gabbard, to an extent, Matt Gaetz, these are people who were everywhere on the campaign with Donald Trump when he was running for election. People paid attention. They saw them with Trump. They heard Trump talking about them. What is it that you think that the American people voted for? 
 
SPANBERGER:  You know, it's interesting, because people continue to be surprised. And I will say, these nominations, they are shocking, absolutely, because the individuals you mentioned are wholly unfit to lead the vast organizations that do things like protect the American public from the next global pandemic or ensure that terrorists who might wish to do harm here domestically are unable to do it, or recognize the importance and the value of collecting information so that policy makers can make good decisions. The fact that these three essential roles might be led by individuals with no requisite or relevant background, and in fact, have a history of just kind of outrageous and -- 
 
BERMAN:  But I guess, my point is, didn't America vote for this? Isn't this what people -- they saw it. They voted for it. 
 
SPANBERGER:  From my perspective, it is shocking, it is not surprising. But I -- the American people, and certainly the people I represent, are good people, are people who are focused on their families, are focused on their concerns in and around our communities. They want their kids to be safe in school. They want to be able to afford their prescriptions at the pharmacy counter. They worry about retirement. They worry about being able to afford a home. 
 
And so there is so much conversation about what Americans did or didn't vote for. And certainly, I supported Vice President Harris in her candidacy and recognized that President Trump would again be a danger to our country. But I think that we for so long have taken for granted the reality that when a president comes in, they appoint people who are experienced, right? 
 
The DNI is a relatively new position. It was created after 9/11. The individuals who have filled that role have been serious, right? We look at Negroponte, we look at Clapper. Clapper served for 40 years in public office under Republicans, under Democrats, under Republicans, under Democrats. That is the type of background. Avril Haines, our current DNI, she has served in roles that prepared her to take the helm of the ODNI. 
 
And so I think that we have a traditional understanding that when someone comes in as president, they do the responsible thing of appointing responsible people. I worried, I suspected that that's not what an irresponsible president like President-elect Trump would do. But the reality is that this is where we are now. And so it's important that people understand why it is dangerous in this moment. The recrimination, looking backwards, you know, that's for, I think, you know, that doesn't change the fact that there's potentially someone wholly unfit who will be leading the ODNI, the Department of Justice, HHS. That's where we are now, and certainly, that's where we should be looking forward and using our voices and making clear that this is an unacceptable place to be, and we expect more. 
 
BERMAN:  Looking forward. It is in the Senate's hands. Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger, thanks so much for being with us. Sara? 
 
SIDNER:  All right, ahead today, former Trump attorney, Rudy Giuliani, must give up his penthouse, his Benz, and some of his most valuable possessions to pay off that $148 million debt for defaming two election workers. But will he do it? 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
And Jared Kushner is expected to head back to the White House. New details on the role he could play on the world stage now.
 
Dr. Sanjay Gupta, back to answer all of your questions about whether weight loss drugs like Ozempic are right for you. Those stories and more, ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SIDNER: It is deadline day for Rudy Giuliani and that $148 million defamation judgment against him.
 
A judge says Trump's former attorney must turn over prized possessions, including his Manhattan apartment, Mercedes Benz, and other valuable assets to two Georgia election workers he defamed and that should happen by today.
 <br>[08:20:16]
 
The judge warned Giuliani and those helping him they could face contempt if they ignore the court's orders.
 
Now, Giuliani's attorneys are trying to quit the case because of disagreements with him.
 
CNN's senior crime and justice reporter, Katelyn Polantz is joining us now. There is a lot going on here, but the ultimate thing is, these two election workers have lived through hell because of the lies that Giuliani spread. What are you expecting to happen today? Will he meet this deadline?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Who knows, Sara.
 
This is going to be a day where we need to watch closely what is happening from Giuliani's side and in court, what Ruby Freeman and Shay Moss' attorneys are saying. What's happening here is that Giuliani has had several deadlines where this debt of $150 million that he has to pay to these two women he defamed so severely, who were harassed so severely after the 2020 election, where he has had to meet, but he hasn't, because he's had attorneys in court that have been helping him use different tactics to continue on to argue different things.
 
And so, his attorneys did quit on Wednesday night. They indicated that it was because of some sort of split or disagreement with Giuliani. We don't know the full details of that.
 
But Ruby Freeman and Shay Moss' lawyers have persisted. They have built a foundation in court, they have locked down bank accounts of his. They keep asking him for more and more information. They're chasing down where his most prized possessions, where his most expensive possessions are.
 
And now, if Giuliani doesn't meet the deadline, its 9:00 AM, today. The deadline that Ruby Freeman and Shay Moss have set. They have been given specific directions, give the stuff to a storage facility in Queens. If that doesn't happen, he could face severe sanctions, contempt of court, and that also means, if he doesn't turn things over, it could be jail until he does.
 
SIDNER: Yes, it is just remarkable to think about the fact that this was at one point, people considered him America's mayor, and now he's in this state, owing $148 million that we don't know if he's going to follow the rules and could end up in jail. Just a remarkable turnaround.
 
Katelyn Polantz, your reporting on this has been excellent. Thank you so much. I appreciate it -- Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Coming up next, a CNN exclusive, we hear from the American fighter pilots who responded to an overwhelming Iranian attack on Israel earlier this year. Those pilots say they ran out of missiles -- the incredible challenge to counter that attack.
 
And a man served 16 years behind bars for a murder he always maintained that he did not commit, and that man is now free. His fight for freedom and how his legal team says that the justice system failed him, over and over again, for more than a decade.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:27:31]
 
BOLDUAN: This morning, CNN is hearing exclusively from the US Air Force pilots that took down a swarm of Iranian drones that were targeting Israel back in April.
 
The US fighter pilots say they were not expecting the scale of the attack from Iran to be as large as it was. The pilots are saying they even ran out of missiles, while repelling this attack.
 
CNN's Natasha Bertrand has this great reporting, she's joining us now. Natasha, you were able to speak with these pilots. Tell me more about what they said.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Kate, there was so much that surprised me in my conversations with these pilots and F-15 crews about just what happened that night.
 
One of the biggest issues, of course, leading up to that night, which I just learned, is there was a question about whether or not these planes, these multi-million dollar F-15 jets would even be able to take on these very slow, small, cheap flying IEDs, essentially, flying explosives, which are these drones.
 
This is something that had not really been tested on a large scale before. Here's what one of the F-15 fighter pilots told me about the challenge in pursuing these drones that night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERTRAND: This is kind of the new way that we're going to be fighting wars moving forward, right? It's a lot of drone warfare. And so, can you talk a bit about how difficult that was to take down these very small, slow-moving drones.
 
MAJ. BENJAMIN "IRISH" COFFEY, UNITED STATES AIR FORCE: You're talking about something that's on the very edge of a fighter aircraft's ability to detect what we call find, fix, track, target, and engage.
 
We weren't sure if our radar, the best radar in the inventory, is in this airplane behind us. No one really knew whether or not its capability to find these things even existed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERTRAND: The other really interesting thing is that, that aircraft that you saw behind him, the F-15E Strike Eagle, that only holds about eight air-to-air missiles at a time. And you had a swarm of drones, you know over a hundred, at least, that were attacking towards these fighter aircraft as they were trying to shoot them down.
 
And so, they ran out of these missiles fairly quickly and in fact, that fighter pilot right there, Irish, he told me that they actually had to resort to using a gun at one point off of that fighter aircraft, something that is extremely dangerous, especially in total darkness when the target you're trying to hit is very evasive -- Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Fascinating, it's so great to hear directly from them. Great reporting, Natasha. Thank you so much -- John. 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, Jared Kushner was basically absent from Donald Trump's campaign this time, after being perhaps the most influential figure in the White House during Trump's first term. But we have new reporting this morning that he might have a major new role this time.
 
And nearly 60 years old, but still rocking the bikini briefs, Mike Tyson winning the battle against aging but can he still win an actual fight? A hundred million people might be about to find out. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:24]