Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: UNICEF: Aid Operations In Gaza Appear "Designed To Fail"; Norway, Ireland, Spain To Recognize Palestinian State; Nine Killed When Stage Collapses At Campaign Event In Mexico. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired May 23, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, HOST, "CNN NEWSROOM": Hello, and welcome to our viewers all around the world. I'm Fredricka Whitfield, and this is the CNN Newsroom. 
 
Straight ahead, thousands march in Iran on the final day of funeral ceremonies for President Ebrahim Raisi. CNN is on the ground in Raisi's hometown. Then, China launches military drills around the island of Taiwan as a quote "punishment". We're live in Taipei for the latest on these renewed tensions. Plus, we'll show you how virtual reality is helping inmates in one correctional facility prepare for life on the outside.
 
And we begin with Israel's war with Hamas and reaction to an announcement that's reverberating across the globe. The Prime Ministers of Ireland, Spain, and Norway, say they will recognize a Palestinian state next week, calling it the best way to achieve lasting peace in the Middle East. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu calls the recognition "a reward for terror". Sources say Israel will consider further diplomatic steps against the three nations. 
 
Meanwhile, the UN is once again sounding the alarm about the lack of humanitarian aid in Gaza. The UNICEF spokesman says the hurdle show that quote "the whole operation is being designed and destined to fail" end quote. 
 
CNN's Scott McLean is tracking the developments, and joins us now from Istanbul, Turkey. Good to see you, Scott. So, let's start with that reaction to Ireland, Norway and Spain's announcement. What more are we hearing?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi Fredricka. Yeah. Obviously, this is being met with a furious reaction from the Israelis. But, across the wider Middle East, this is broadly being welcomed. You have the Qataris, for instance, who are obviously deeply involved in the ceasefire negotiations between Israel and Hamas, saying that the way to peace is a Palestinian state recognized under the 1967 borders, and said this, quote, "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs voices the state of Qatar's hope for more countries to recognize the state of Palestine and promote the efforts aiming to implement the two-state solution." Now, the 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as the capital, is also the
 
 plan that Turkey endorses, along with the Egyptians. Both countries put out similar statements welcoming this new recognition. And the Saudi Foreign Ministry also reacted, saying "The kingdom calls on more countries to swiftly take the same stance which would contribute to finding a reliable and irreversible path to achieve a just and lasting peace that fulfils the rights of the Palestinian people." So, that irreversible path to a Palestinian state is the condition that the Saudis have put up for normalizing relations with Israel. 
 
Now, the Israeli Prime Minister has made abundantly clear that he does not support the creation of a Palestinian state, and it seems that there is growing impatience at this very fact. This is how the Irish Foreign Minister explained it yesterday in an interview on CNN, saying that the Prime Minister is taking steps to undermine the peace process here, and that there is really no political will for this in Israel right now. 
 
In Europe, we're seeing a slightly different tack from other countries, Germany, one example. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in that country said that he is not convinced that recognition is appropriate after the horrific massacres that we saw on October 7. Now, broadly speaking, the Germans are in favor of a two- state solution, but they want it to be done through a dialogue process and a peace process. And you have other countries like the UK and the U.S. who would like to see something similar. You don't want to recognize Palestine before there is any progress toward a peace agreement. Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Scott, stark warning from UNICEF this morning, saying aid operations in Gaza are designed to fail. Why isn't the aid getting where it needs to go?
 
MCLEAN: Yeah. So, the UNICEF spokesperson Ricardo Pires said that, look, it's not about just counting trucks anymore. It's more complicated that that. You have to make sure that they have fuel to get around. You have to make sure that there are clear roads, safe paths, etc. It seems that the U.S. has identified that exact same problem. Their floating pier is taking a fraction of the aid that it was expected to take, first off, and even when that aid does arrive on the shores of Gaza, it's having a very difficult time getting to where it needs to go. Two days ago, the U.S. acknowledged that none of it had reached the broader population. 
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
Yesterday the White House said that some of it, two thirds of it, is at least on the way towards reaching the broader population. And when we're talking about border crossings, the Israelis said that yesterday some 280 trucks got in to Gaza through two border crossings. But, the UN has previously said that it's more complicated than that, that these crossings require so much logistics and coordination to actually use, and not to mention the fighting in the area, that it is very difficult to get aid in and also to where it needs to go. 
 
So, the UNICEF spokesperson says that, look, destroyed roads, active conflict, permits, lack of fuel, are all problems, along with the lack of safety guarantees for humanitarian workers, some of whom he says had been harassed by Israeli soldiers and prevented from doing their jobs. And he also said that there is difficulty in the regular rotation of humanitarian workers that has really broken down, and on that, he said, as it stands, it looks like the whole operation is being designed and destined to fail. 
 
And one of the things that I think is important to mention is he also said that, look, of the aid that is getting in, Fredricka, a lot of it is more commercial goods. So, we're talking about cookies and pop, things like that, rather than the real humanitarian aid, the special food and nourishment that children, some of whom are struggling with malnutrition, really need to stay alive.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Scott Mclean from Istanbul, thanks so much. 
 
All right. Massive crowds are lining the streets of northeastern Iran to bid a final farewell to the late President Ebrahim Raisi. We've got pictures here in Mashhad of the crowds of mourners. Raisi will be buried in the holy city of Mashhad, where he was born 63 years ago. He was killed in a helicopter crash Sunday, along with the Foreign Minister and several others. Tens of thousands paying their respects as his coffin was driven through the streets in a motorcade. Presidential election has been scheduled for June 28. We'll have more from our correspondent in Iran in a few minutes. 
 
All right. Turning now to Mexico where nine people are dead and dozens more are injured following a stage collapse.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
And pretty unbelievable. It happened during a campaign rally for presidential candidate Jorge Alvarez Maynez on Wednesday. Powerful wind gusts sent the stage crashing down. 
 
Stefano Pozzebon is following this closely. He joins us now from Bogota. So, Stefano, what is the latest that you're hearing about the status of those injured?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Yes, Fredricka. Well, the latest is that, thankfully, we don't have a new updated death toll at this moment. There are still at least nine people killed in this tragedy in Monterey, northern Mexico, and dozens of injured. But, in the early hours of today, that number has not grown, and that is perhaps the first relief. Scenes of panic, scenes of chaos, for sure. If you look at the video that we collected on social media, you can see that the wind picked up all of a sudden when the candidates were singing on the stage. It was not just Jorge Alvarez Maynez, who is the presidential candidate who was on the stage at the time, but also other local politicians who are competing in local elections, and Monterey is one of the largest cities in the country. So, thousands of people were attending these rally. 
 
Now, in the early hours of today, the -- Fredricka, the talk has already switched to responsibilities because it has since come to light that the Mexican Meteorological Service has issued a stark warning about wind gusts of more than 70 kilometres per hour, and lightning storms forecasted for Wednesday night in Monterey. So, many people waking up this morning in Mexico are asking themselves, why was this rally allowed to take place in the first place? And many are asking that question directly to the presidential candidate Jorge Alvarez, who late last night said that it was not possible to forecast such a tragedy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JORGE ALVAREZ MAYNEZ, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FOR THE CITIZENS' MOVEMENT PARTY (Interpreted): What happened was a strong wind that must have lasted five minutes maximum. It took down trees, tents. There is a lot of news coverage about it. The disaster that caused this accident was not a common weather event. It wasn't an ongoing storm. It wasn't a predictable weather event, as it has been speculated. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
POZZEBON: Fredricka, Alvarez Maynez has already suspended campaign events for today. And -- but, this tragedy, of course, has already cast a tragic shadow over the entire presidential contest. Mexicans will hold the polls are on the second of June to elect a new President after four years of unrest. Manuel Lopez Obrador and Alvarez is currently polling in third place. Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Stefano Pozzebon, thank you so much. 
 
All right. China has launched military drills around Taiwan as punishment for what it called separatist acts. As part of those drills, dozens of fighter jets carrying live ammunition conducted mock strikes alongside its warships. This complicates things for Taiwan's new leader, who was sworn in just days ago, and called on China to stop intimidating Taiwan. Beijing claims Taiwan as its own, despite never having controlled it. 
 
Our Will Ripley is following developments from Taipei, Taiwan, and joining us live now. So, what more do we know about these exercises, and as China calls them separatist acts?
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. Well, they're responding to a speech that Taiwan's new President, Fred, gave a couple of days ago at his inauguration, where he not only said to stop the intimidation, but he flat out told China that they need to acknowledge the existence of Taiwan. He even used this island's official name, the Republic of China, which was considered very inflammatory by Beijing, and a much less cautious, frankly, than his predecessor Tsai Ing-wen, who was always very careful not to say anything that would give Beijing an excuse to launch military drills like this. 
 
But, of course, they did it anyway. They did it after Nancy Pelosi. They did it when President Xi met with the then-Speaker McCarthy in California, and now it's happening again. We just got an update from the Taiwan Defense Ministry. We're not even halfway through these two- day drills yet, and already at least 49 Chinese aircraft near Taiwan, 35 of them crossing over the median line of the Taiwan Strait, entering Taiwan's self-declared air defense identification zone. You have 15 warships, 16 Coast Guard vessels patrolling near the outlying islands. No aircraft carrier spotted just yet. But, these were pretty significant. And yet, not the largest that we've seen. It was back in 2023 in September when 103 Chinese aircraft were detected in a single 24-hour period. So, this is provocative but not unprecedented. 
 
And people on the streets of Taipei, we were out talking to some of them earlier, they've lived with the looming threat of a potential conflict with China for their whole lives. This conflict, this question of Taiwan sovereignty goes back more than 70 years. And so, people say, yes, they obviously worry about what could happen. But, life essentially does go on, and they say that they have confidence in their government and their military. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): If the Chinese Communist Party does attack Taiwan, it won't be easy for them to take Taiwan. Taiwanese people are not afraid of war.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (Interpreted): I believe leaders will prioritize people's happiness. So, I'm not worried. I think peace will be maintained.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIPLEY: It's actually similar to what I heard in South Korea and North Korea over the years. They've also lived very close to each other, constant threat of conflict, and yet, it's just something that you learn to live with. But, Taiwan has been investing billions in bolstering their own self-defense. They're expanding the military training, both for mandatory conscripts. They have to actually spend a year now. Every young Taiwanese man has to go in and serve for a year and then they get recalled back regularly for training. Some of my friends just got notices. They're going to have to do expanded military training over the summer. 
 
So, there certainly are real-life impacts here in Taiwan. But, nonetheless, it is unsettling, albeit regular now for people here to see this sort of military activity. It's been going on. China has almost been normalizing, Fred, this escalatory military drills, if you will, encircling Taiwan just miles from the shores of this island, and some have said that it is essentially a dress rehearsal for this possible invasion down the road, which China has never ruled out, unless this democratically elected government were to suddenly reverse its policies and ignore the opinions of the Taiwanese public who have elected them into office and just accept Beijing's offer to be reabsorbed into the mainland. They say that's just not going to happen. 
 
So, unfortunately, that means this tension is just likely to continue in this cycle, and really, nobody knows where it's headed, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Will Ripley in Taipei, thanks so much. 
 
All right. As we mentioned at the top of the hour, massive crowds are out on the streets of Mashhad, Iran, to bid a final farewell to the late President Ebrahim Raisi. 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
Live pictures right now. Raisi will be buried here where he was born 63 years ago. He was killed in a helicopter crash Sunday, along with the Foreign Minister and several others. 
 
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen is in Mashhad, Iran, and he is joining us now by phone. So, Fred, describe for us what you've been seeing. Fred Pleitgen in Mashhad, Iran, if you can hear me, let me know what you've been seeing there. Fred, are you able to hear me? This is Fredricka in Atlanta. 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (VIA TELEPHONE): Yeah. Fred, exactly. I mean, right now, right now, I'm seeing hundreds of thousands of people here in Mashhad, who are really on one of the main avenues going towards the shrine of Imam Reza, where, of course, the late Ebrahim Raisi is going to be laid to rest here later in the day. That procession is going on right now. We've been speaking to a lot of people on the ground here. We have to keep in mind, Fredricka, is that Mashhad really is sort of --
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We apologize to our viewers. But, as you can hear and see there, the signal is a bit spotty. We'll try to re- establish communication with our Frederik Pleitgen there in Iran, if we're able to. 
 
All right. Meantime, French President Emmanuel Macron is calling for a return to peace in New Caledonia. He is in the French overseas territory amid deadly anti-government protests that have gripped the island. Thousands of French security forces have been deployed to New Caledonia since the violence began, and Mr. Macron said they will remain in the country for quote "as long as necessary", even during the upcoming Olympic Games. Protests began a week ago after the French government voted to approve changes to New Caledonia's Constitution, giving greater voting rights to French-born people living on the islands. At least six people have died as a result. 
 
The British Prime Minister has called a surprise general election for July 4, one that his Conservative Party is widely expected to lose. Standing in the rain at 10 Downing Street in central London, Rishi Sunak said that it is quote "time for Britain to choose its future". Mr. Sunak has admitted that his party has had its struggle amid a high cost of living crisis and rising inflation, but added the voting for the opposition Labour Party would be a step backward. 
 
All right. Still to come, Russia has its sights set on Ukraine's second largest city. We will take you to the frontlines to show you what troops are doing to protect Kharkiv. And U.S. President Joe Biden hosts his Kenyan counterpart William Ruto at the White House for a bilateral meeting following -- followed by, rather, a state dinner. We will tell you what's on the agenda in a live report from Washington. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: In Ukraine, Russian strikes on the city of Kharkiv have claimed at least seven lives there. That's according to the prosecutor's office there. He adds, most of the damage was to civilian property like a printing business and a home. Lately, Russia has stepped up its attacks on the northwestern region, pummeling the area's infrastructure. 
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh got exclusive access to see the battle firsthand. And a warning, some of the images in this report are graphic.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTL. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Some towns, they can never let Putin take, and this Lyptsi is one of them. Destroyed artillery on the streets. Homes aflame from an airstrike. But, they can only move at night. It's a perilous grip. But, loose here, and Russian artillery will be in range of Ukraine's second city, Kharkiv. 
 
WALSH: You can still smell the smoke here from an airstrike that landed just in the last hour or so.
 
WALSH (voice-over): This is life under the drone. We're the first reporters into the heart of the town. Only soldiers left here underground. The Khartiia 13th National Guard first tackled Russia's new offensive.
 
OLEKSANDR, UKRAINE'S KHARTIIA NATIONAL GUARD BRIGADE (Interpreted): You saw how it's all burning. It's like that every night.
 
WALSH: Do you think there were good enough fortifications here?
 
OLEKSANDR (Interpreted): Nothing was prepared here. Nothing. Just nothing. All the positions are being built by the hands of the infantry. The Russians are trained professional soldiers. You can see it from their equipment, from their tactics.
 
WALSH (voice-over): There were eight airstrikes just in the last hour. So we leave soon. A buzzing noise nearest, very close. And the only way they know whose drone this is, is if it attacks.
 
WALSH (Interpreted): Is it your drone?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who knows?
 
WALSH (voice-over): All around Kharkiv, they don't have enough guns and the Russians have too many drones. The 92nd Assault Brigade showed us something that isn't even theirs. WALSH: Russian artillery piece that they captured in the first year of
 
 war in the fighting in Kharkiv region. And now, they use strangely French mortar rounds to fire from here. It's just a sign of how little appropriate ammunition they have available to them. This wire is a protection from FPV drones.
 
WALSH (voice-over): Above, he sees a drone with two battery packs, a long-range scout.
 
WALSH: Run. Basement.
 
WALSH (voice-over): It is not friendly. If you can tell it's an attack drone, hide. This seems to be a scout, so running is better before it causing shelling. Another artillery unit wants to show us something not even Russian, but Soviet. Made in the 1940s, it can still find newer Polish shells in the autumn. It was 100 a day. Now, it is 10.
 
WALSH: Extraordinary to see something here that's three times the age of either these two guys holding back new Russian offensive in 2024. I say the metal is so old that it limits the number of times.
 
WALSH (voice-over): That sound warns another drone is incoming. And back in the bunker, they show us the online board $30 gadget that is their best warning mechanism. The team here embody Ukraine's exhaustion and resilience. Older guys wounded infantry.
 
WALSH: (Inaudible) has drone shrapnel in his arms still.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Moving towards Lozova?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Orlan. Don't go out at all for now.
 
WALSH: We just saw an Orlan Russian drone passing overhead. So, he is saying, better stay inside.
 
WALSH (voice-over): On the way back into the city, we see what fuels this defense. This was a lakeside resort, football, cocktails, a beach.
 
WALSH: Extraordinary devastation and they're here to collect the bodies.
 
WALSH (voice-over): A seven months pregnant woman was among the seven dead here. Another body found later, just fragments in the mulch. Russia's advance looms over whatever life persists here, belching out over homes. The dark is little salvation. This may be drone being hit, but they killed two when they crashed in failure. Flares breach the enforced blackout. Moscow is getting nearer again and there are always too many blasts before dawn.
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Kharkiv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Still to come, Washington again turns its attention to the border. Can lawmakers put aside partisan fighting to strengthen U.S. border security? And how the frustration of some Taylor Swift fans could lead to the breakup of the dominant company in the world of concert tickets.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: In the coming hours, U.S. President Joe Biden will host Kenya's President William Ruto at the White House for a bilateral meeting. The two are marking the 60 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries, and they're expected to hold discussions on security and economic cooperation. Mr. Ruto's three-day state visit to the U.S. comes as Kenya prepares to send its troops on a support mission to Haiti. The UN-sanctioned mission is aimed at restoring peace there. 
 
Let's bring in CNN's Priscilla Alvarez, live at the White House. Good morning to you, Priscilla. So, what's on the agenda for the two leaders?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fredricka, this is certainly a notable visit. It's the first African leader to come for a state visit since 2008. There are three major themes that the two leaders are expected to talk about, including elevating Kenya from a regional partner to a global partner, the importance of democracy, and also private sector investments. On that front, the two leaders met with business leaders just yesterday to talk more about economic cooperation and private sector investments. 
 
But, they're also expected to make a slate of announcements today. That includes, for example, unveiling a document called the Nairobi- Washington Vision, which will call on creditors to help ease the burden of debts for Kenya. It will also include the President designating Kenya a major non-NATO ally, which would essentially allow for more of that military cooperation. So, this is a partner that the President is focused on today, has been focused on. In 2022, the President said that he was, quote "all in for Africa". But, he also hasn't visited despite committing to over the course of his presidency, as he has had to grapple with multiple foreign conflicts. So, in some ways, this is also making up for a broken promise. 
 
But, all the same, the two leaders are expected to talk about a range of issues, including those that I mentioned, as the United States tries to keep Kenya close in its cooperation.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Priscilla Alvarez at the White House, thanks so much. 
 
All right. It appears the U.S. Department of Justice may want to break up the company that dominates when it comes to selling concert tickets. 
 <br>[08:30:00] The DoJ and several states are expected to file an antitrust lawsuit today against Live Nation, the company that owns Ticketmaster. Ticketmaster is far and away the bigger player in the market for live events. Critics say the industry needs more competition to bring prices down and provide better customer service. 
 
Let's go now to our Senior Crime and Justice Correspondent Katelyn Polantz. Katelyn, the anger and frustration at Ticketmaster has really grown in recent years, especially during the selling of the Taylor Swift tickets. So, explain how this came to be. 
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Yeah. After that "Eras Tour" had all kinds of issues with the rollout of the tickets, there was trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble. And so, since then, there has been a lot of public and political blowback that has led the Justice Department to this position where they are poised to sue Live Nation, the parent company of Ticketmaster that was selling those tickets. 
 
Now, what they're saying and what they're very likely to say in this lawsuit, once it is filed, is that it is very unfair to both consumers and to venues/artists because of the dominance of Ticketmaster and their practices, and that ultimately, if a lawsuit like this were successful, it could reduce prices for people buying tickets to live music events, as well as cut back on the service fees that are included when people buy those tickets. Now, Live Nation leadership in the past has defended their practices, and they have said that the pricing has been set by artists and by their teams, and that they have been able to cut out scalpers with a lot of the ways that they structure ticket pricing. 
 
But, Fred, it is potentially quite a rocky road ahead in court. And this would be a centerpiece of the antitrust division at the Justice Department and a major, major pursuit by the Biden administration to file a suit against such a dominant cultural force such as Live Nation and Ticketmaster that so many people interact with and pursue it in court over the coming months. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. This is a big one. And no one can just shake it off because Ticketmaster has really become so dominant. So, what is it the DoJ wants that company to do differently?
 
POLANTZ: Well, they very likely will want to break up the monopoly and cut out the ability for Ticketmaster, Live Nation, to lock venues into long-term contracts and add those service fees. Some of the accusations in the past have been that the practices of ticketing in the U.S. lead to poor customer service, these expensive fees, confusing prices or unfair prices for consumers, putting artists at disadvantages and also causing restrictions on resale. 
 
All of this argument is very likely to be presented in court. And there is a number of actions like this to break up big companies that the Justice Department pursued this, the latest. Another one we're waiting on for a resolution in court is against Google. So, a lot of activity from the Biden administration in this particular area (inaudible). WHITFIELD: All right, Katelyn. I mean, I love going to concerts, but I find that I'm not going to as many as I'd like to because trying to get tickets is just a nightmare. So, I think I'm feeling the same pain a whole lot of other folks are feeling which helped precipitate all this, I guess. All right. Crime and Justice Reporter Katelyn Polantz, thanks so much. 
 
All right. The topic of border security will again take center stage in Washington today. The U.S. Senate will take an important procedural vote on a bill to strengthen border security. It is similar to a measure that narrowly failed back in February when Donald Trump pushed Republicans to vote against it. This time around, more Democrats are expected to oppose the measure because it is no longer linked to an aid package for Ukraine. 
 
Our Congressional Correspondent Lauren Fox is joining us right now with more on this. So, Lauren, Republicans are not likely to support anything that gives Democrats a win on border security. 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. That's exactly right. But, this is also dividing Democrats because there are a lot of immigrant rights groups who are advocating against this legislation. And while some Democrats were willing to cross those advocacy groups and vote for this package the last time because they argued it was the price that was required to ensure that Ukraine got critical aid that it needed, now that aid has passed and this bill is coming to the floor as a standalone package. And there are several Democrats who I talked to and progressives who say that they are undecided on this legislation. Senator Bernie Sanders, who actually voted against the package last time, told me he is still looking over and trying to decide if he is going to support it. 
 <br>[08:35:00]
 
Ben Ray Lujan, who supported the package the last time around, is considering whether or not he would do so again, and Senator Cory Booker, who voted for the package in February, put out a statement two days ago, laying out that he would not be supporting it now. Now, there are some moderate Democrats who say that it's not a problem that there are divisions within the Democratic Party. In some ways, it might help people who are running for reelection in red states like Senator Jon Tester in Montana, Senator Sherrod Brown in Ohio, to argue, look, this bill is so moderate. It is so doing something to help border security on our southern border that there are people in my own party who didn't vote for it. 
 
So, that is sort of the dynamic going into today, but we do not expect this legislation to advance. Another person to keep your eye on is Senator Lisa Murkowski. She voted for this package back in February. She was not committed 100 percent to voting for it again today. But, she did tell me yesterday that what has really changed. She voted for the package then. She said it's coming to the floor again. But, she did say this is really a messaging exercise for Democrats. And to sum it up, she said, this is doubt (ph). Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Lauren Fox, thanks so much, on Capitol Hill. All right. Former Republican presidential candidate Nikki Haley has
 
 made a big political U-turn. She now says she will vote for Donald Trump in November even though they traded insults like these on the campaign trail.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY, THEN-U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: At some point, maybe we should say the reason that America keeps losing is because of Donald Trump. I feel no need to kiss the ring. Donald Trump got out there and just threw a temper tantrum. We lost in 2018. We lost in 2020. We lost in 2022. And Donald Trump's fingerprints were on all of it. How much more losing do we have to do before we realize maybe Donald Trump is the problem? 
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I purposely mix up a name, like Birdbrain, you know who Birdbrain is, right, Nikki. Nikki Haley has made an unholy alliance with RHINOS, Never-Trumpers. She is not right to be President. I know it very well, the wrong thought process. She is not tough enough. She is not smart enough and she wasn't respected enough.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: What's changed? Haley made the announcement during her first public remarks since conceding the Republican presidential race in March. 
 
All right. High-ranking members of the Louisville police force appear to be having second thoughts about the charges brought against golf superstar Scottie Scheffler. You may recall that Scheffler was arrested last week while trying to navigate around police barricades at the PGA Championship. Sources tell CNN that some police officials think charging Scheffler with a felony may be excessive. The Louisville mayor and police chief are holding a news conference later on to discuss the case and to release new video of the incident. 
 
CNN's Gabe Cohen is in Louisville, tracking the story for us. Gabe, good morning to you. So, bring us up to speed on where Scheffler's case is and what might we learn today.
 
GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, you mentioned our new reporting, which is significant because this is really the first indication we've gotten that any of the top brass at Louisville Police Department are voicing these concerns and may believe that the charges against Scottie Scheffler should be at the very least reduced. I've spoken with a source who tells me during a recent meeting, at least some, multiple high-ranking police officials from the Louisville Metro Police Department were in the room discussing the case, and there was really consensus that the second-degree assault on a police officer charge, a felony, the most serious charges that Scheffler faces is excessive, that according to my source. 
 
Now, it's not clear at this point, Fred, if those feelings have been shared with the county attorney's office. Remember, they're the ones prosecuting the case, not the police department at this point. I asked the prosecutor's office about it. The spokesperson sent me a statement saying, as we have stated previously, no decisions have been made regarding the prosecution of the case involving Mr. Scheffler. We continue to gather information and we'll review and proceed accordingly. 
 
And that's an important note, Fred, because it is still very possible that those charges are amended, reduced, even potentially dropped before Scottie Scheffler's arraignment, which was rescheduled and is now set for June 3. Now, we do expect to get some new information and some new video during a press conference with Louisville's mayor and police chief a little later on this morning, 11:30 a.m. Eastern Time, inside City Hall, the building behind me. We're expecting them to lay out the complete findings of their investigation into the Scheffler case. They're going to release, they say, some new video captured on a traffic poll camera in the area that shows the arrest of Scottie Scheffler. 
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
At this point, we don't know if there is any video, though, of the initial incident, that encounter between the police officer and Scottie Scheffler that led up to the arrest, before that officer was allegedly dragged by Scottie Scheffler's car. But, we do expect that when the officials lay that out, they're going to discuss any possible department, police department, policy violations that that officer may have committed. He was wearing a body camera. He did not turn it on, according to the mayor. 
 
So, we expect we're going to get some new information on this, Fred, a little bit later today. It's not clear at this point, though, if they're going to comment on the charges or make any sort of recommendation, especially with regard to that felony assault on a police officer charge. 
 
WHITFIELD: OK. Lots to look out for. Gabe Cohen in Louisville, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Still to come, we take you inside a women's correctional facility where inmates use virtual reality to prepare for life outside of prison. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Some inmates inside a women's correctional facility are training to be mechanics when they are released from prison. 
 
CNN's Clare Duffy shows us how virtual reality is helping them prepare.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MEAGAN CARPENTER, VR TRAINEE: The best part about it for incarcerated people is you get to escape from this place and it reminds you that there is something outside of here. 
 
TIFFANY BUSCH, VR TRAINEE: It definitely takes you out of here, and it is fun.
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN TECH REPORTER (voice-over): This is Meagan and Tiffany. Both are serving time here at the Maryland Correctional Institution for Women. Tiffany expects to be released this June, Meagan, next year. But, for all of the freedoms beyond the facility's walls, their backgrounds will likely create significant challenges for them, like finding a good-paying job.
 
CARPENTER: Some will complain about going to work on Mondays and things like that. You really miss the simple things like making your own money.
 
DUFFY (voice-over): Both women are part of a program here in Maryland that uses cutting edge virtual reality training. The goal, to put them on a path towards becoming certified auto technicians.
 
CARPENTER: I feel 100 percent confident in my abilities. 
 
DUFFY (voice-over): Trade groups say the industry sees tens of thousands of job openings go unfilled each year.
 
CARPENTER: So, when you first put the headset on, it looks just like this like an automotive shop. You're able to maneuver around the shop, pick up different tools, use the lift, look under the car, it's very realistic.
 
BUSCH: Whenever we turn it on, it's -- we're not where we was. It's real. You got this headset on, it's like you're actually there.
 
DUFFY: What have you learned in your first week? 
 
BUSCH: I know how to do an oil change. And so, that's not something I ever thought I would be able to do.
 
MARTIN SCHWARTZ, PRESIDENT, VEHICLES FOR CHANGE: I mean, virtual reality, number one, is going to be the way we train the skilled trades in five years across the board. 
 <br>[08:45:00]
 
DUFFY (voice-over): Martin Schwartz is the President of Vehicles for Change, the nonprofit group that helped bring the VR training program to Maryland's correctional facilities in 2023.
 
SCHWARTZ: This isn't rocket science. It's a matter of getting people a job that leads to a career and we can keep people out of prison. That first four months is vitally important for that individual to be able to stay out of prison. So, if they can get a job that's going to pay $16 to $20 an hour, we can change the trajectory of that recidivism rate.
 
CARPENTER: It's dire that we get some type of training. But, sometimes, we just need that one program to have faith in us and give us opportunity, and let us take the ball and run with it. I'm just trying to be self-sufficient and be a strong independent woman. 
 
BUSCH: And I'm excited. I'm excited for it. So, I'm excited to be able to go home and use what we have here.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Exciting for the road ahead. 
 
All right. Still to come, a sneak peek at some of the most buzzworthy films at the 77th Cannes Film Festival.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Rihanna last released an album back in 2016. But, she has been really busy doing something else, like building a beauty empire valued at nearly $3 billion, according to Forbes. The success of her cosmetics brand "Fenty Beauty" is partly due to its popularity on social media and the rising Gen Z. 
 
CNN's Mike Valerio breaks down Rihanna's latest viral moment in China.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Rihanna serving up looks and jianbing, a type of crepe in Shanghai. The artist and entrepreneur was in the city for her beauty brand's first ever pop-up in China. The "Fenty" event was a masterclass and enticing Gen Z shoppers amid a slump in Chinese retail consumption that's hit the country's economy hard. Rihanna quickly became the number one trending topic on Chinese social media site Weibo. 
 
Rihanna is no stranger to the connection between cookery and couture going viral online. The showstopping look by Chinese designer Guo Pei, nicknamed the "omelette dress" captivated onlookers at the 2015 Met Gala, and became the root of many in internet meme. 
 
RIHANNA, BARBADIAN SINGER AND BUSINESSWOMAN (Interpreted): Of course, if you want to sell your products in China, you better be ready to live stream, even if Forbes says your net worth is over $1 billion. 
 
VALERIO (voice-over): Rihanna joined several beauty bloggers to showcase "Fenty" products on Douyin, China's version of TikTok. There were more than 460 million live streaming ecommerce users in Mainland China in 2022, according to a body affiliated with Beijing's commerce ministry. 
 
RIHANNA: I love them. Are you kidding? 
 
VALERIO (voice-over): Now, we can add Rihanna to that long list. 
 
Mike Valerio, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: And now, gloves will be trending next because she is wearing them. 
 
All right. It appears that Elvis Presley's family will keep control of his Graceland mansion. A Tennessee court made that ruling on Wednesday after Presley's granddaughter sued to block a mysterious company from selling the historic Memphis home. That company later saying it's dropping all claims to the property. 
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales unravels details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For decades, they've come to honor the king, to get a glimpse of where Elvis Presley lived and to be close rock 'n' roll royalty. 
 <br>[08:50:00]
 
The Memphis home hallowed ground for music lovers around the world and the resting place for Presley, his daughter Lisa Marie, and other family members.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, it should be in the Elvis' family, always.
 
PAUL YOUNG, MAYOR OF MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE: We hope that it stays with the family. Graceland means so much to our community. It does so much for our economy. We attract over 600,000 visitors each year.
 
ROSALES (voice-over): But, with the threat of foreclosure, the fate of Elvis Presley's fabled Graceland was all shook up. 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
The historic landmark, front and center in court Wednesday morning --
 
JOEDAE L. JENKINS, CHANCELLOR, SHELBY COUNTY CHANCERY COURT: The Graceland is considered unique under Tennessee law.
 
ROSALES (voice-over): -- to determine who is its rightful owner, after the iconic 14-acre property was put up for a foreclosure auction to be held Thursday, until the singer's granddaughter and heir Riley Keough filed suit, and a judge granted a temporary restraining order against any sale -- 
 
JENKINS: I will (inaudible) the sale. 
 
ROSALES (voice-over): -- ruling the iconic Memphis home can stay in the hands of the Presley family for now, the creditor behind the sale, Naussany Investments and Private Lending LLC, presented documents claiming Lisa Marie Presley defaulted on a nearly $4 million loan with Graceland as collateral. Keough claims not only are the documents fake, but that her mother never borrowed money or used Graceland as collateral. Keough also claims Naussany isn't even a real company. 
 
JENKINS: It appears that you (inaudible) to be successful on various the second prong provide a proof at the ultimate hearing (inaudible). 
 
ROSALES (voice-over): A chancery court deciding to delay the foreclosure until a hearing can determine the facts. The notary swearing she never met Lisa Marie Presley or notarized her signature on the loan paperwork, JENKINS: Which beings in the question as to the authenticity of signature and the deed of trust as being a fraud. 
 
ROSALES (voice-over): Today, the company says it will not move forward with the foreclosure and will be withdrawing all claims with prejudice, according to a statement released by a person identified as a representative. So, for now, for fans and for the family, Graceland remains a good luck charm. 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
ROSALES: Withdrawing all claims with prejudice, that means that the decision is final. So, it sounds like this lender will abandon any future efforts to foreclose on Graceland. We have also reached out to the attorney of Riley Keough to inquire as to the status of the lawsuit against this company in light of this news. We've also reached out to Tennessee banking regulators, the DA's Attorney's Office, and also the U.S. Attorney's Office to see whether they will play any role in this legal battle considering the accusations of fraud. 
 
Isabel Rosales, CNN, Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. And just a few days left until the end of this year's Cannes Film Festival, it's the 77th year of the festival. 
 
Here is CNN's Saskya Vandoorne wrapping up the highlights so far.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SASKYA VANDOORNE, CNN SENIOR PRODUCER (voice-over): It's that time of year again when Hollywood glamour comes to the French Riviera. The 77th Annual Cannes Film Festival is underway. This nearly two-week event has been full of starlet moments, extraordinary fashion, and showstopping red carpet events, including the arrival of the Olympic flame. The torch was carried up the famous steps of the "Palais des Festival" for the viewing of the documentary "Olympiques", a film featuring Olympic and Paralympic champions. 
 
However, the real stars of the festival are the films themselves, including Francis Ford Coppola's "Megalopolis", the substance starring Demi Moore, and the new buzzworthy "Mad Max Saga" Warner Bros. Pictures, which shares a parent company with CNN. 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): Mexican drug lord musical 'Emilia Perez' by French director Jacques Audiard starring Selena Gomez, Zoe Saldana, and Karla Sofia Gascon, received a nine-minute standing ovation.
 
JACQUES AUDIARD, DIRECTOR, "EMILIA PEREZ" (Interpreted): It's that when you show your film here, it's really seen by the whole world, and that's it. I know that I'm very anxious every time I come. I'm very, very, very anxious, and it doesn't get easier with the years. VANDOORNE (voice-over): Japanese animation studio "Ghibli" became the
 
 first group to be awarded the "Honorary Palme d'Or", which usually goes to an individual. Another film causing a stir is "The Apprentice", a biopic about former U.S. President Donald Trump. A spokesperson for the Trump campaign said it would be filing a lawsuit over the film. Director Ali Abbasi said the former President should watch the movie before taking any legal action.
 <br>[08:55:00]
 
ALI ABBASI, DIRECTOR, "THE APPRENTICE": I don't necessarily think that this is a movie that he would dislike. I don't necessarily think he would like it. I think that he would be surprised.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): This film depicts prominent lawyer Roy Cohn and Trump in his early years as a real estate mogul. Jurors for this year's festival include director Greta Gerwig, and actresses Lily Gladstone and Eva Green. 
 
PIERFRANCESCO FAVINO, ACTOR, CANNES FILM FESTIVAL JURY MEMBER (Interpreted): It's an honor. It's a pleasure for me. As a film lover and also a cinema goer, it's like being a kid in a candy store, and being surrounded by people I admire and respect is marvelous.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): The international film festival will end this weekend when the "Palme d'Or" is awarded. 
 
Saskya Vandoorne, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: it looks fun. 
 
All right. Thank you so much for joining me here in the CNN Newsroom. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. Connect the World with Becky Anderson is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:00:00]