Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Vice President Kamala Harris Gathering Democratic Support After Joe Biden Drops Out; President Joe Biden Drops Out After Weeks Of Calls For Him To Exit The Race; Benjamin Netanyahu: Israel Will Remain "Most Important Ally" Of U.S.; Congressional Panel Questions U.S. Secret Service Director; Cheatle: Sufficient Number Of Agents Assigned To Trump Rally; Cheatle: Trump Assassination Attempt "The Most Significant Operational Failure OF The Secret Service In Decades; Cheatle: I Accept Responsibility For This Tragedy; United States Service Director Testifies On Trump Rally Shooting. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired July 22, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:32] 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Democrats and the country starting out this week facing a new political reality in this election race. Still a lot of questions in replacing President Joe Biden at the top of the presidential ticket. 
 
The president's announcement on Sunday that he's dropping out of the race, surprising so many, now endorsing Kamala Harris to succeed him, sparked a surge of Democratic support, as well as donations for the vice president. Harris says she is ready to earn and win the nomination. Her words. 
 
As of now, some party leaders are withholding their endorsements but boy, lots of sitting lawmakers are already out saying they will back her and she should be the nominee. 
 
The party's rules committee will meet Wednesday to map out a path forward ahead of next month's convention in Chicago. Republicans they have been making some preparations for this day. They reacted as you might expect after Biden's announcement attacking the vice president and her record calling on President Biden as well to resign from the office of president immediately. 
 
We've got a team of reporters covering all the latest developments, Arlette Saenz with us from Rehoboth Beach, Delaware where President Biden remains as he recovers from COVID. Eva McKend, outside the vice president's official office, residents in Washington. Steve Contorno in Ohio for us where the Republican vice presidential candidate J.D. Vance will hold a solo rally today. Jeff Zeleny in Washington for a big picture view of all that is going on. 
 
I wonder first EVA with you, this was quite a day for the president. Clearly, a difficult decision for him. And one that surprised even some in his own party as to how quickly it came out. What are you hearing this morning as they wake up to this new reality? EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: It is, Jim, you know in just a few moments, we might see the motorcade pass by here as Vice President Harris heads to the White House. She is expected to give remarks honoring the NCAA champions, but we don't know if she is going to address the shakeup directly. We don't know if she wants to give President Biden the opportunity to do that first.
 
What we do know is that she has been on the phones, aggressively making calls, feverishly making calls to governors, members of Congress, President Obama, the Clintons, faith leaders, labor leaders, civil rights leaders. And it's all in an effort to shore up support internally among Democrats. 
 
I was speaking with the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. And he told me that the sense that he got from their conversation is that he is under -- she is under no illusion that this is going to be easy. And that she expects really to have to earn this nomination in the weeks ahead. 
 
But she does have on her side though, is that key Democratic coalition. So, I'm talking about groups like higher heights, black voters matter, they are firmly behind her, thousands of black women, on a call last night strategizing about the best path forward.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I will feel that she's absolutely qualified to pick up the torch and carry forward for his policies off America.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I am ready for Biden to pass torch to Kamala if that's who he's passing the torch to. I absolutely will be more excited to vote for Kamala Harris.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think Vice President Harris would do an excellent job. I would feel it would be a natural passing of the torch, if you will, for democratic causes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKEND: And so, Jim, that is a flavor of what I have been hearing on the campaign trail in the last couple of weeks. Those folks I met there in the critical battleground state of North Carolina. 
 
Now, her allies are key for this matchup to come into focus. They believe that Harris has a compelling case to make and that she will be strong as a former prosecutor going up against a convicted felon, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Eva McKend, thanks so much. 
 
Steve Contorno. Now, Steve, I wonder how the campaign -- I mean, of course, they're going to attack, that's what campaigns do. But Steve, our understanding was that Trump and his team wanted to run against Joe Biden. Their preference was for him to stay in the race. He is not, it is now Kamala Harris. And is it possible that they're more worried about facing Harrison Trump? STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Well, look, Jim, they built a campaign to beat Joe Biden, have already spent millions of dollars on it. They had a convention just like last week, the focus of that convention was on bringing down the record of Joe Biden and so yes, absolutely. They -- you know, they would love to have seen that that narrative continue and continue to be able to attack the current administration.
 <br>[10:05:17]
 
But they claim that everything that job Biden has done as president, Vice President Harris owns, and they intend to attack her on immigration, crime, inflation, all the issues that they attacked Biden on as well. And we have already seen some new attempts at attacking her. Super PAC supporting vice -- excuse me, former President Donald Trump on the air already with an ad not only attacking her record, but saying that she obviously was hiding something from American people by standing by Joe Biden while he was clearly in a diminished state, that ad will run in Arizona, Georgia, Nevada and Pennsylvania for critical battlegrounds. 
 
But that -- even the fact that those ads are even running in some of these states shows that this map is once again potentially expanding. We had heard that the Trump campaign, the Biden campaign were really going to focus on those blue wall states, the Midwest.
 
Clearly, Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, those three states were once that Joe Biden won in 2020. But were looking like they were trending toward Donald Trump. And now once again, Republicans are going to have to compete there. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, no question. Steve contorno, thanks so much. Let's go to Arlette Saenz at the White House. 
 
Arlette, of course, President Biden remains president and there's a lot on his plate, including a visit from the Israeli Prime Minister this week. I wonder what the White House says his focus will be beyond supporting the eventual Democratic candidate if that turns out to be Kamala Harris, who of course he's endorsed. But in terms of his work as president, did they talk about what he's going to focus on for the next three months?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, President Biden made clear in his letter announcing that he was bowing out of this race, that he does intend to focus on his work as president as this rest of the year and early next year plays out.
 
Now, the president right now is still here in Rehoboth Beach Delaware, where he has been recovering from COVID 19. This is also where he made that final decision to exit this race huddling with just two of his very closest longtime advisors who really presented the president with the most recent polling, briefed him on where top Democrat stood and ultimately told the president that the path to victory for him in November was virtually nonexistent. The president setting into motion his plans to drop out on Saturday evening and then finalizing those plans with that letter just yesterday. But there are still big questions going forward about how President Biden will play in this campaign. Now, the president in his letter announcing his withdrawal from the race said that he does want to address the nation soon about his decision. One big factor that's determining the schedule is the president's COVID diagnosis. He is still recuperating here, he's still waiting for the all clear from his doctor, so it's not yet certain when he will return to Washington to potentially address the nation. 
 
The president, as you mentioned, is also expected to meet at some point this week with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israelis, the prime minister's office had said that that meeting was -- would take place on Tuesday, though, on the White House said they have not confirmed any dates, and said that it's more likely to happen mid to late into this week. But it's all dependent on that COVID diagnosis. 
 
The president was also scheduled to travel out west for a fundraising swing over the weekend, there was at least one fundraiser scheduled in Laguna Beach, California, another expected in Northern California. 
 
Right now, they're still working to determine whether those fundraisers move forward. But if the president were to fundraise, it likely would go towards the vice president's campaign. You've also already seen the campaign apparatus really move gears to fully support the vice president. They've changed their social media accounts, they've come up with a new logo, and they are also pushing their fundraising apparatus to bring in more money for the vice president.
 
A source this morning telling us that the vice president brought in $49.6 million in grass -- online grassroots donations alone, a sign of enthusiasm, but also a much needed boost to the campaign war chest as she is seeking this Democratic nomination. 
 
Of course, for Harris, the big question going forward is can she coalesce all Democrats around her there, some in the party who want to see an open nominating process, have other people potentially get into the race. 
 
But so far, there has been a lot of public support for the vice president, all things she will have to work towards. Of course, she has the support of her current boss, President Biden, who within 30 minutes of dropping out of the race threw his support behind Harris.
 
SCIUTTO: And of course, those are continuing questions about what happens to Joe Biden's campaign coffers and how that money might be transferred. 
 
Arlette Saenz, thanks so much. 
 
So, Joe Biden, as Jeff Zeleny knows well, has been in politics for some time. Have a look at this clip of Joe Biden from 1988. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[10:10:06]
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: So, it's your help that I seek first as today I announce my candidacy for president of the United States of America.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Long time ago, he was running for president more than 30 years ago, here we are today. 
 
Of course, he eventually left that race there. But a long distinguished career that he's had over decades in the Senate, vice president and now president in quite divisive times. It's quite a legacy.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Jim, it definitely is and it is, indeed, the legacy and that sort of long term of service that many of his really loyal admirers used in these final days and weeks to persuade him to leave the race. 
 
It was really extraordinary to see so many Democrats come forward and ask him to step aside, but they all did so by praising him and then say, but, you know, we respect your service as vice president, as president, as senator but this is not the moment and they worried about him losing to Donald Trump.
 
But it is absolutely a remarkable, really half century of leadership in America, from the youngest U.S. Senator elected in 1972, of course, leaving office as the oldest American president.
 
His advisors and I believe he would say, look, he's not done yet. He has a day job as president, the spotlight is going to shift away from him. There is no doubt about it, Republicans are trying to still make him an issue in this race that will likely make Vice President Harris shift the spotlight even more. But Jim, it's absolutely remarkable span of American life.
 
But as for Vice President Harris, we are seeing those endorsements come in just really a minute by minute. The Illinois Governor JB Pritzker is the latest potential running mate, but also Democratic governor to throw his support behind a Kamala Harris. 
 
So, that is what people are watching here today. This will be her first big presidential decision, should she become the nominee, that she will make her running mate decision. I'm told before that the formal process of the nomination happens. But that will be her first big look. 
 
So, behind the scenes today, yes, she's still trying to galvanize Republican -- her Democratic support, excuse me, but she's also thinking to her -- for her potential running mate as well, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Jeff, it is remarkable how quickly the party has rallied around Harris, because as you know, all the talk about the Biden potentially leaving the race, of course, he has it now that there was this talk of it, perhaps some sort of open mini primaries series of town halls, etcetera. 
 
I wonder to the best of your knowledge, is this by design? Or is it just a natural momentum that's happening here where Democrats are saying we got it, we got to back her and focus on Trump?
 
ZELENY: Jim, it's because of one person. And that's Donald Trump. I mean, there is no doubt about if there was more time, if this was a year ago, there would have been an open Democratic primary. If this would have been even perhaps a couple of months ago, there likely would have been at least somewhat of a Democratic primary, thinking that the stronger candidate would emerge from the primary. And that might have been the vice president. 
 
I mean, she obviously would have had a huge head start here. Her name literally has been on the via campaign signs. And you know, she is the beneficiary of this campaign apparatus. 
 
But the fact of the matter is, with the Chicago convention, the Democratic Convention less than one month away, there are few options, and the time has been moving on here. 
 
So, time has been on her side. But Jim, above all, and Democrats want to get back to the whole idea of this campaign that's trying to contrast with Donald Trump, it should be about him, not about Joe Biden. 
 
But look, she still has to shore up a bit of support. And beyond that, it's her constituents. She's a -- she has to support but Donald Trump, he's the big Democratic unifier in this, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Before we go, Jeff, there had been some talk when Joe Biden was still in this race less than 24 hours ago. It's amazing how things quickly things move, the DNC moving up the delegate headcount to vote prior to the convention to shore up support doing it virtually. Is there any talk of doing that now with Harris? In other words, wrapping up -- her wrapping up the delegates prior to the convention next month?
 
ZELENY: There absolutely is and that's where it seems this is going. There's going to be another meeting of the Democratic Convention Rules Committee. This is all arcane process, but it's important in this respect they will have a meeting on Wednesday and it is the intent of most party leaders to try and have her formally nominated by August 7th.
 
So, it would likely happen -- the vote would likely happen in a window between August 1st and August 7th, that could change but the fact that no one is stepping forward to run against her and challenge her likely means that it won't change. And the reason this matters is Democrats are eager to have her out there and a define herself and begin making this race about Donald Trump and J.D. Vance again, as opposed to having a Republicans define her in this waiting period. 
 <br>[10:15:27]
 
So, I do expect her to be nominated formally well before she ever reaches Chicago, that sort of takes the business away from the convention. And that has become a unifying rallying point going forward. 
 
Again, we shall see, as you said, 24 hours things have changed a lot. But it seems it's on a course to do that, Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO: It's amazing how quickly -- how quickly this has been moving. Well, Jeff, thanks so much, our thanks to Arlette, Eva and Steve Contorno as well. 
 
Still to come this hour, Israel's Prime Minister heads to Washington to meet with President Biden and address Congress. We're going to have a preview ahead.
 
And Democrats in this country look ahead to the November election without Joe Biden. We look back at how the 1968 election played out after Lyndon Johnson dropped out himself earlier that year. We're going to be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SCIUTTO: Well, an event that seemed inevitable to some, impossible to others has now happened, President Joe Biden pulled out of the race for reelection on Sunday. He also swiftly endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris to take his place at the top of the ticket. 
 
Harris raised almost $50 million in just a matter of hours on Sunday. That's a significant number. Democratic donors are said to be celebrating the passing of the torch to a new generation of party leaders. It is unclear if any other Democrats will challenge her but boy, so many have been publicly coming out in support of her. It seems the momentum is moving towards backing her as the candidate with no challenge. 
 
Biden's decision came after acknowledging what many in his own party had been saying ever since the disastrous debate performance that it was in the best interest of his party and the country for him to drop out of the race and let someone else challenge Donald Trump. 
 
Also this week, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says his country will remain America's most important ally in the Middle East regardless of who is in the White House. 
 
Netanyahu spoke in Tel Aviv ahead of his flight to the U.S. where he will meet with President Biden but also addressed Congress. He says the visit would give him an opportunity to thank President Biden.
 
We've got a team coverage of this important visit, CNN's Nada Bashir in London, Kayla Tausche at the White House.
 
And Kayla, I want to begin with you because, listen, Republicans in this country love Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and he has over recent years got quite close to the Republican Party in this country despite close long term relationship with President Biden and his support for Israel in the wake of the October 7th attacks. 
 <br>[10:20:16]
 
I wonder if the White House and if Democrats see Netanyahu's visit and his speech before Congress as something of a campaign speech for Republicans?
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, there is that element of it, Jim, of course, there is given the backdrop of what has happened on the top of the ticket on the Democratic Party and the proximity of the election to this very visit. 
 
I mean, this is a visit by the Prime Minister that was first discussed in April of 2023. Right around the time that Joe Biden announced his intention to seek a second term for office then, of course, the events of October 7th, and then many months in the interim where the administration's position on Israel came under immense criticism for being seen as supporting Israel at all costs, and not being willing, at least from the outset to acknowledge the Palestinian death toll. 
 
That is something that the administration has tried to carefully calibrate since then. And it's a position that the vice president herself has been instrumental in developing behind closed doors. 
 
But certainly the spotlight will be on both President Biden and Vice President Harris, who is expected to meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu this week, although the timing of these meetings is still in flux, given the President's own unexpected diagnosis of COVID last week that has thrown into something of disarray, that schedule of events that he had planned for this week. 
 
But certainly the Secretary of State has suggested in recent days that a deal to release hostages and reach a ceasefire in Gaza is inside the 10 yard line. Of course, an American football analogy that expresses the sentiment that it is extremely close to new (ph).
 
The National Security Adviser just yesterday meeting with families of those still being held hostages. But Jim, just today, there are still protests for pro-Palestinian groups outside the White House demanding a deal be reached, demanding the horror inside Gaza be stopped. 
 
And so, certainly, the message that both President Biden but now of increasing importance what President Vice President Harris says we'll be in close scrutiny this week.
 
SCIUTTO: And one has to wonder if President Biden makes that peace agreement a focus of his final months in office. 
 
Nada Bashir, good to have you. I wonder if you can tell us what you're hearing about the prospects for that agreement because it's -- let's be frank, it's been on again off again for weeks and months at each time. Both sides seem to say they're getting closer, something else gets in the way.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: That, sadly, is true. We have seen this time and time again, and different messaging, of course, from both Israeli officials and from the United States. And I think what we've seen in the relationship, particularly between
 
 the Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, and the U.S. President Joe Biden has been at times tenuous, there has been friction between the two despite the decades long relationship between the two. 
 
And of course, we did hear from the Prime Minister of Israel earlier this morning, Benjamin Netanyahu speaking to reporters on the tarmac with regards to President Biden's decision to pull out from the race, as you mentioned, he expressed his thanks to President Biden for his support that he has shown to the State of Israel during his time in office.
 
But of course, there have been those tensions around the ceasefire deal, around the terms of the agreement and around the U.S.'s own foreign policy, objectives and also wishes of what it wants to see happen in the Gaza Strip. 
 
And what we heard from Netanyahu this morning was somewhat of an appeal to both sides of the political aisle in the United States. Take a listen to this message that he gave to reporters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: And I will tell my friends on both sides of the aisle that regardless who the American people choose as their next president, Israel remains America's indispensable and strong ally in the Middle East. 
 
I plan to see President Biden whom I've known for over 40 years, this will be an opportunity to thank him for the things he did for Israel in the war. And during his long and distinguished career in public service.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NBA Of course, while he had a message of thanks there for President Biden for his support for Israel, particularly since the attacks of October 7th, what we have seen in recent weeks and months are growing tensions between the two leaders we know of course that Prime Minister Netanyahu has publicly and vocally contradicted statements from the Biden administration with regards to the situation in Gaza, both in terms of the amount of aid getting into the Gaza Strip. We know there has been continued push for more aid to get in but also, of course crucially it with regards to the ceasefire, a deal that is currently on the table, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Nada Bashir, Kayla Tausche, thanks so much to both of you.
 <br>[10:25:03]
 
Well, the director of the U.S. Secret Service is now testifying on Capitol Hill called grilled following the assassination attempt to former President Trump. Let's listen in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) KIMBERLY CHEATLE, DIRECTOR, U.S. SECRET SERVICE: And to ensure the wellness of our people post incident all while securing an active crime scene.
 
I immediately ordered a reevaluation of the Republican National Convention security plan, and I increased the security posture in the National Capital Region for all permanent protectees and sites. 
 
At the same time, I initiated a mission assurance investigation within our agency, I have instructed my team that all necessary resources will be dedicated to investigating these matters. We will not rest until we have explored every option, and we will leave no stone unturned. 
 
But I want to be clear, I am not waiting for these investigations to be completed prior to making changes. 
 
Over the past two weeks, we successfully led the planning and execution of the 75th NATO Summit and the Republican National Convention. Over the next few months, we will implement security plans for the Democratic National Convention, the United Nations General Assembly, and have already begun planning and coordinating the 2025 inauguration. 
 
It is now more important than ever for the men and women of the Secret Service to remain resilient and to focus on what is necessary to carry out our critical mission. Our agency needs to be adequately resourced in order to serve our current mission requirements and anticipate future requirements. The Secret Service currently protects 36 individuals on a daily basis, as well as world leaders who visit the United States, like Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who arrived in Washington D.C. today.
 
The coming years will bring an unprecedented heavy production tempo, I have no doubt that the processes that I have implemented during my tenure as director, in addition to my nearly 30 years of experience in this agency, have positioned the Secret Service to be stronger. 
 
Our mission is not political. It is literally a matter of life and death. And the tragic events on July 13th remind us of that. 
 
I have full confidence in the men and women of the Secret Service. They are worthy of our support and executing our protective mission. I will now answer any questions that the committee may have.
 
REP. JAMES COMER (R-KY): Thank you very much, Director Cheatle. We will now begin our five minutes questions and I will begin. 
 
Just for the record, the Secret Service has an annual budget of around $3.1 billion and I believe around 8000 employees. Is that correct? 
 
CHEATLE: Yes, sir. 
 
COMER: Obviously, there were many security failures on the day of the attempted assassination and leading up to that day, let's start with the building that the shooter used to shoot President Trump from. At any point Saturday, did the Secret Service have an agent on top of that roof?
 
CHEATLE: Sir, I'm sure as you can imagine that we are just nine days out from this incident. And there's still an ongoing investigation. And so, I want to make sure that any information that we are providing to you is factual.
 
COMER: OK, why did the Secret Service not? Can you answer why the Secret Service didn't place a single agent on the roof?
 
CHEATLE: We are still looking into the advanced process and the decision that were made.
 
COMER: All right. OK, OK, wasn't that building within the perimeter that should be secured? Do we agree with that?
 
CHEATLE: The building was outside of the perimeter on the day of the visit. But again, that is one of the things that during the investigation, we want to take a look at and determine whether or not other decisions should have been made. 
 
COMER: One of the things that you said, I believe in an interview that there wasn't an agent on the roof because it was a sloped roof. Is that -- is that normal? And do you fear that that immediately creates an opportunity for future would be assassins to look for a slanted roof? 
 
I mean, this is a huge question that every American has, why wasn't a Secret Service agent on the roof? And there have been reports that agents were supposed to be on the roof, but it was hot that day and they didn't want to be on the roof. Can you answer any of those questions, Director?
 
CHEATLE: So, I appreciate you asking me that question, Chairman. I should have been more clear in my answer when I spoke about where we placed personnel in that interview. 
 
What I can tell you is that there was a plan in place to provide over watch and we are still looking into responsibilities and who was going to provide over watch, but the Secret Service in general not speaking specifically to this incident, when we are providing over watch, whether that be through counter snipers or other technology prefer to have sterile rooftops.
 
COMER: Did the Secret Service used any drones for surveillance that day?
 
CHEATLE: So again, I'm not going to get into specifics of that day in itself, but there are times during a security plan that the Secret Service does deploy an asset like a drone. 
 
COMER: There were reports that the shooter used a drone just a few hours before the rally start time. Is that accurate?
 
CHEATLE: I have heard those same reports. And again, I'm waiting for the final report. COMER: Do you know -- if you can't answer the question, that's your answer. But can you answer this? Do you know? Do you know? I'm not asking yes or no, but do you know if the shooter used a drone before the shooting?
 
CHEATLE: That information has been passed to us from the FBI.
 
COMER: How many secret service agents were assigned to President Trump on the day of the rally?
 
CHEATLE: Again, I'm not going to get into the specifics of the numbers of personnel that we had there, but we feel that there was a sufficient number of agents assigned.
 
COMER: There are reports that several agents assigned to the rally on July 13th were temporary agents, agents not normally assigned to President Trump. Is that accurate?
 
CHEATLE: What I can tell you is that the agents that were assigned to former President Trump are Secret Service agents that provide close protection to him, and that was what was actual on that day.
 
COMER: How many temporary agents were there that day? Quite frequently, sir, during campaign events, the Secret Service utilizes agents from HSI or the Department of Homeland Security to help supplement our plan.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COMER: But you don't know how many -- or you can answer.
 
Had the investigators reconstructed the shooter's precise movements over the past days, weeks, and months?
 
CHEATLE: So, again -- 
 
COMER: We need -- we need to have confidence that if the FBI is leading this investigation, that they are leading a credible investigation. Because there is some of us sitting up here today that don't have a lot of confidence in the FBI.
 
So, I will repeat the question, have the investigators reconstructed the shooter's precise moments over the past days, weeks, and months?
 
CHEATLE: I understand your question, Chairman, and I share your concerns about wanting to make sure that we have factual information. The FBI is conducting a criminal investigation. The Secret Service is conducting an internal investigation. There are a number of OIG investigations, and there is the external investigation that -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COMER: OK. Last question for me. Before July 13th, had the Trump detail requested additional resources?
 
CHEATLE: What I can tell you is that for the event on July 13th, the details that were request, the assets that were requested for that day were given.
 
COMER: OK. My time is expired. Chair now recognizes ranking member Raskin for five-minute.
 
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 
It's been reported that before former President Trump got up on the stage at around 6:00 p.m. on Saturday, July 13th, that the local police had identified and even photographed a man who was acting suspiciously, and this man, who turned out to be the gunman, had been flagged as a potential threat. Is that accurate?
 
CHEATLE: What I can say is that the individual was identified as suspicious.
 
RASKIN: So, he was known to be suspicious before former President Trump took the stage.
 
CHEATLE: That is the information I have received.
 
RASKIN: Why was he allowed to take the stage with a suspicious person having been identified in the crowd?
 
CHEATLE: Sir, I appreciate the question and I like to make two points. If the detail had been passed information that there was a threat, the detail would never have brought the former president out onto stage. That is what we do, and that is who we are. We are charged with protecting all of our protectees.
 
RASKIN: So, you distinguish between someone who is suspicious and someone who is threatening. Is that right?
 
CHEATLE: We do. There are a number of times at protective events where suspicious people are identified and those individuals have to be investigated and determined, what is it that identifies that person as suspicious?
 
RASKIN: So, did you deny a request for additional resources that had been made by the Trump campaign?
 
CHEATLE: There were no assets denied for that event in Butler on the 13th.
 
RASKIN: Oh, I see. So, you're saying there were requests made for additional assistance for other specific events, rather than for the campaign as a whole? Is that right?
 
CHEATLE: I'm sorry. I'm not understand -- 
 
RASKIN: Well, you seem to say that there were not additional resources requested for that event. And forgive me for being unfamiliar with this. Is it requested event by event, or is it requested just in general for the campaign?
 
CHEATLE: So, if I can explain the advance process when the -- when a -- an event or an a venue is identified by, in this case, campaign staff, then the campaign staff works together with Secret Service agents who go out and conduct in advance, generally, that is a five- day time period where those discussions are had about what the perimeter is going to look like, what the size of the event is, what the venue is, and then from there, there is a request made to mitigate potential risk and threat.
 
And I'm saying that on that day, the requests that were pushed forward were granted.
 <br>[10:35:03]
 
RASKIN: So, the Secret Service did not know that the gunman actually had a weapon before President Trump was allowed to get up on the stage?
 
CHEATLE: To the best of our knowledge and the facts that we have at this point, that is correct.
 
So, can you answer this question, which I think is on the mind of most Americans thinking about this, how can a 20-year-old with his father's A.R.-15 assault weapon climb on to a roof with a direct 150-yard line of sight to the speaker's podium without the Secret Service or local police stopping him?
 
CHEATLE: So, again, sir, I will say we are nine days out from this event, and I would like to know those answers as well, which is why we are going through these investigations to be able to determine that fully.
 
RASKIN: OK, it's been reported that the shooter was not carrying a driver's license or any form of identification. They had no idea who he was, but then, he was quickly identified, I think, within 30 minutes, by using the serial number on the A.R.-15 under a tracing system that is now controversial. Some people say we should get rid of it. Some people want to keep it. But is that right that the serial number was the key information which led to the identification of the shooter?
 
CHEATLE: That is my understanding, sir. Yes.
 
RASKIN: OK. If an American citizen were just to stop you and say, Director Cheatle, we support your work to the tune of billions of dollars and thousands and thousands of employees. What went wrong? What would you say?
 
CHEATLE: Again, knowing that we're nine days out, I would say, as I have said from the very outset, I accept responsibility for this tragedy. We are going to look into how this happened, and we are going to take corrective action to ensure that it never happens again.
 
RASKIN: Well, I appreciate that, and I hope you will act with vigor and focus and intensity, and it seems you understand the gravity and solemnity of this to the American people. Millions and millions of Americans don't feel safe with all the A.R.-15s out there. We thought, at least, the president of the United States, or a former president United States would be safe. But now that's not even clear. Mr. Chairman, I yield back to you.
 
COMER: The gentlemen, yields back.
 
Chair now recognize chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Mr. Jordan from Ohio.
 
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Director, were you guessing or lying? The day after President Trump is shot, Secret Service spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said, "The assertion that a member of the former president's security team requested additional security resources that the U.S. Secret Service or the Department of Homeland Security rebuffed is absolutely false."
 
The next day, Secretary Mayorkas said that is an unequivocally false assertion. We had not received any request for additional security measures that were rebuffed.
 
But five days later, the Washington Post said this, top officials repeatedly rejected requests from Donald Trump's security detail for more personnel. The next day, the New York Times said this, Mr. Guglielmi acknowledged that the Secret Service had turned down some requests for additional federal security assets for Mr. Trump's detail.
 
So, which is it? Because both statements can't be true. Were you guessing or lying when you said you didn't turn down requests from President Trump's detail?
 
CHEATLE: Neither, sir. And I appreciate the question.
 
JORDAN: And what were you doing, because those statements don't jive.
 
CHEATLE: So, what I can tell you is that for the event in Butler, there were no requests that were denied as far as requests -- 
 
JORDAN: Well, maybe they got tired of asking. Maybe you turned them down so darn much, and said, not worth asking. How many times did you turn them down ahead of that?
 
CHEATLE: I think that it is important to distinguish between what some people may view as a denial of our -- on asset or a request does not -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JORDAN: Mr. Guglielmi, your spokesperson, he said he acknowledged the Secret Service had turned down some requests. I'm asking how many?
 
CHEATLE: A denial of a request does not equal a vulnerability.
 
JORDAN: Well, tell me what it is.
 
CHEATLE: There are a number of ways that threats and risks can be mitigate -- mitigated with a number of different assets, whether that be through personnel, whether that be through technology or other reasons.
 
JORDAN: Well, tell the committee which it was. They asked for additional help, in some form or another, you told them no. How many times did you tell them no? And what do you tell them no, too?
 
CHEATLE: Again, I cannot speak to specific incidents, but I can tell you in general terms, the Secret Service is judicious with their resources based on -- 
 
JORDAN: What is some requests mean? How many times? Some indicate request is plural, so more than once they ask for additional help and you turn them down. What they ask for, and how many times did you turn them down? Pretty basic questions.
 <br>[10:40:01]
 
CHEATLE: So, again, without having all of the details in front of me, sir, what I can tell you is that there are times -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JORDAN: You didn't get briefed on how many times you turn down the Trump detail when they ask for additional help?
 
CHEATLE: I'm sorry.
 
JORDAN: You didn't get briefed on that before you came to this hearing, knowing you were going to get asked that question?
 
CHEATLE: What I can tell you is that, in generic terms, when people -- when details make a request, there are times that there are alternate ways to cover off on that threat or that risk.
 
JORDAN: But that's not what he said. He said they were denied certain requests -- some requests.
 
CHEATLE: I -- 
 
JORDAN: This is your spokesperson, not me talking. This is the Secret Service talking.
 
And what a change from absolutely false, unequivocally false, to, oh, by the way, there were some times where we didn't give them what they wanted. That's a huge change in five days.
 
And the fact that you can't answer how many times you did that, that's pretty darn frustrating, not just for me, but for the country.
 
CHEATLE: I hear your frustration.
 
JORDAN: Let me ask you this. Were any of those requests denied to President Trump's detail after you knew about the Iranian threat.
 
CHEATLE: What I can tell you, again, I don't know the specifics, is that there are times when we can fill a request, it doesn't necessarily have to be with a Secret Service asset or resource. We can fill that request with locally available assets and resources.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JORDAN: Do you spoke to anyone at the White House since July 13th?
 
CHEATLE: Yes, I have.
 
JORDAN: Who do you talk to?
 
CHEATLE: I have briefed the president and the vice president.
 
JORDAN:  Talk to the First Lady?
 
CHEATLE: No, I have not.
 
JORDAN: Talked to the White House staff, anyone in the White House communications?
 
CHEATLE: No, I have not.
 
JORDAN: Have you talked to the counter sniper who took the shot that took out the bad guy?
 
CHEATLE: Yes, I have.
 
JORDAN: And can you tell us about that conversation?
 
CHEATLE: I would not want to reveal conversations that I've had with my employees.
 
JORDAN: But that's exactly the kind of information the American people want to know. American people who pay your salary.
 
CHEATLE: I understand. This is an ongoing investigation, and I want -- 
 
JORDAN: Who is all doing the investigating at Secret Service? I know the inspector general. But is there also an internal investigation in addition to the inspector general?
 
CHEATLE: We are conducting a mission assurance investigation internally. Yes.
 
JORDAN: You know what, it looks like, Director, looks like you won't answer some pretty basic questions. It looks like you got a nine percent raise, and you cut corners when it came to protecting one of the most important individuals, most well-known individuals on the planet.
 
A former president, likely the guy is going to be the next president. Looks like you guys were cutting corners. That's what it looks like to me. Is that true?
 
CHEATLE: I am here today because I want to answer questions, but I also wanted to be cautious.
 
JORDAN: You might want to, but you have an answer. I don't think you've answered one question from the chairman, the ranking member, or me. We got a lot of other people asking. We'll see if your -- if your record improves. But right now, you haven't answered, I don't think any questions. I yield back.
 
COMER: The gentlemen yields back. Chair now recognized Ms. Norton from Washington, DC.
 
REP. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (D-DC): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 
In the summer of 1963, as a law student, I traveled to the south to work in the civil rights movement. When I arrived in Jackson, Mississippi, I was met by a civil rights activist who showed me around town and tried to convince me to work in Jackson that summer. I recall talking with him and his wife about the raw atmosphere in Jackson.
 
Later that day, he took me to the bus station for my trip to my assignment. That night, he was assassinated outside his home. His name was Medgar Evers.
 
I condemned the political violence. It is a threat to democracy. I want to discuss one of the roots of political violence, guns.
 
For years, Republicans, including a member of this committee, have introduced legislation and amendments to repeal or block the District of Columbia gun violence protection laws, including its bans on assault weapons and large capacity magazines. The shooter at the Trump rally used the mass shooters gun of choice, an assault weapon, specifically, an A.R.-15 style rifle, and presumably a large capacity magazine, which is defined in D.C. as a magazine that can hold more than 10 bullets.
 
On the current D.C. law, D.C. does not recognize concealed carry permits issued by other jurisdictions, but it does issue concealed carry permits to both residents and non-residents.
 
However, D.C. imposes a number of requirements on concealed carry applicants, including suitability, such as not having exhibited a propensity for violence or instability.
 
Moreover, D.C. residents where the restricts, where the guns can be carried, such as a political demonstration near the White House and Naval Observatory, or near people under Secret Service protection, provided the permit holder has been given notice.
 <br>[10:45:04]
 
This week, the House is expected to consider the fiscal year 2025 financial services and General Government Appropriations Bill. This Republican drafted bill would allow an individual with a permit to carry a concealed handgun issued by a state or territory to carry a concealed handgun in D.C., regardless of that jurisdictions permit requirements.
 
A Republican has filed an amendment to that provision to allow such an individual to carry a magazine of any size with that handgun. In short, the pending bill and amendment would allow any person with a carry permit issued by another jurisdiction to carry a concealed handgun with a magazine of any size in any location in the District of Columbia.
 
The Secret Service is responsible for protecting a large number of people and facilities in D.C.
 
Director Cheatle, would Secret Service protectees in D.C. be safer or less safe if people who have exhibited a propensity for violence or instability could carry a conceal -- concealed handguns in D.C.?
 
CHEATLE: I think being a Secret Service agent and an officer or a law enforcement officer in any state is difficult. They are required to make decisions and snap judgments in the blink of an eye, and I think that the officers and the agents that work here in the D.C. area do a great job of monitoring the public and reacting to threats as appropriate when they arise.
 
NORTON: Would Secret Service protectees in D.C. be safer or less safe if people in D.C. could carry concealed handguns with large capacity magazines.
 
CHEATLE: I think, ma'am, that we work in parameters where we travel around North America and the rules on open carry and concealed carry are different from state to state, and that is part of what the Secret Service takes into account when we develop a security plan.
 
Obviously, anyone that comes into one of our protective sites, we would establish magnetometer support metal detectors that personnel would have to process through eliminating that potential.
 
NORTON: Would Secret Service protectees in D.C. be safer or less safe if more people could carry handguns in D.C.?
 
CHEATLE: I think, again, as I stated, ma'am, we want to make sure that we provide a safe environment for all of our protectees, and whatever measures we would need to put in place for a secure site, we would do so.
 
NORTON: I yield back.
 
COMER: General, ladies time's expired.
 
Chair now recognizes the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Mr. Turner from Ohio.
 
REP. MIKE TURNER (R-OH): Director Cheatle, your opening statement indicates that the Secret Service constructed a security plan for the site in Pennsylvania. I'm assuming that security plan would also include the security footprint for the site, but it also would be based upon a threat assessment for the risk threats associated with Donald Trump and the crowd in attendance. Would it not include a threat assessment?
 
CHEATLE: Yes, it would. TURNER: So that threat assessment, as we know, basically, would have started with is a generalized threat against Donald Trump, because he is a presidential candidate. Then, it would have gone to, he's a former president, and he gets security coverage, just as Bush, Clinton, Carter Obama do.
 
And then, you also have the heightened political environment, even for those, it's clear that the security footprint that the threat assessment was insufficient, which permitted that a 20-year-old to actually enter with a weapon and shoot Donald Trump.
 
But I want to ask you about two other aspects of the threat assessment. It is known and public that Iran is a threat risk for Donald Trump. They're a threat risk for John Bolton, former Secretary of State, Pompeo, and Donald Trump, because they have indicated they want to assassinate them as a result of retaliation for the killing of Soleimani. That is both for Iran, a generalized threat. They are targeting these individuals.
 
But also, most recently, a specific threat to Donald Trump himself. Now, I want to enter into the record by you see, a Department of Justice Public Affairs release a CNN article, an article from Fox News and an article from CBS, all of which acknowledge -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Without objection, so order.
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
TURNER: That this threat exists for Donald Trump from Iran, and that there are specific threats, most recently that have been acknowledged.
 
Director Cheatle, have you read the intelligence of the generalized threat to Donald Trump by Iran as a result of their desire to retaliate for the killing of Soleimani -- excuse me, Soleimani?
 
CHEATLE: I have.
 
TURNER: Have you read or been briefed about the intelligence of this specific recent threat to Donald Trump from Iran?
 
CHEATLE: Yes, I have.
 
TURNER: Director Wray, when we were getting on our briefing, indicated that he thought the threat assessment should have included this threat from Iran. Is it your testimony today that the threat assessment, since you've read this intelligence, was sufficient to protect him from this threat from Iran?
 
CHEATLE: My testimony today is that the information that we had at the time was known. That is -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
TURNER: Was it sufficient? Director Cheatle, was it sufficient for the Iranian threat that you said you have read the intelligence briefings for? CHEATLE: That information was passed to Intel -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
TURNER: Well, I'm not asking the bureaucratic issue of who did it -- get passed around to. Director Cheadle, was it sufficient for the specific and generalized threat to Donald Trump's life from Iran.
 
CHEATLE: Yes, I do believe it was.
 
TURNER: Director Cheatle, is an Iranian assassin more capable than a 20-year-old?
 
CHEATLE: Sir, I think we have acknowledged that there was gaps and a failure that day. We are not -- 
 
TURNER: When I raised this issue with Director Wray, he was incensed. He was shocked that the threat assessment of Iran did not seem to be, as we -- and I discussed, baked in to your security footprint and your threat assessment.
 
And he went on to say that the generalized threat that he has told the whole country that we are under from a terrorist -- a potential terrorist threat. He has said we're under the highest threat level since 9/11 that the lights are flashing red, and he has specifically indicated that people have crossed the southern border as a result of the Biden administration's policy, and that there are in our country today, terrorists and individuals who are affiliated with terrorist groups and organizations, that would be a heightened threat environment, Director Cheatle, would it not?
 
CHEATLE: Yes.
 
TURNER: In his public statements, he has said he is making these statements because he wants people to take them into consideration in threat assessments. Specifically.
 
Now, that would be a threat, not just to Donald Trump, but it would also be a threat to the crowd there, wouldn't it?
 
CHEATLE: Yes.
 
TURNER: Are ISIS terrorists and al-Qaeda terrorists, and international groups and terrorists more capable than a 20-year-old in pulling off their mass shooting or an assassination of Donald Trump?
 
CHEATLE: Sir, again, there was clearly a breakdown and a failure that day.
 
TURNER: Have you read the intelligence of the terrorists that are currently in the United States, that director Wray speaks. And those individuals that are here that are affiliated with terrorist groups and organizations that are in the process, as Director Wray said, of representing a significant threat of a terrorist attack occurring in the United States.
 
CHEATLE: I have read reports that apply specifically to the Secret Service's mission.
 
TURNER: Director Cheatle, because Donald Trump is alive and thank God he is, you look incompetent. If Donald Trump had been killed, you would have looked culpable. There is no aspect of this that indicates that there has been any protection to Donald Trump.
 
The threat was identified before he took state the stage, and the shooter was only killed after Donald Trump himself was killed. Not only should you resign if you refuse to do so, President Biden needs to fire you, because his life, Donald Trump's life, and all the other people which you protect are at risk because you have no concept of the aspect that the security footprint needs to be correlated to the threat. I yield back.
 
COMER: Chair now recognize Mr. Lynch from Massachusetts.
 
REP. STEPHEN LYNCH (D-MA): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Director Cheatle, there were multiple security failures at the former president's rally in Butler, Pennsylvania. First of all, there was a failure to isolate the podium from exposure to direct fire.
 
Do we know who may who made that decision to allow that rooftop to remain as an unprotected area. Do we know who came up with that security plan that omitted that?
 
CHEATLE: Sir, I don't have a specific person to identify for you -- 
 
LYNCH: OK. Well, that's what I'm looking for. So, let's, let's move on.
 
There is also a breakdown in security and failure to confront the shooter over an hour before the former President began his remarks, when the shooter was identified as a person of interest.
 
What particularly allowed agents or law enforcement to identify him as a person of interest.
 <br>[10:55:07]
 
CHEATLE: So, I appreciate the question. And again, I will say that we are nine days out, and there are multitude of interviews that are still taking place.
 
LYNCH: OK. So, did he have a rangefinder? There were some reports that the individual had a rangefinder. That would -- that would certainly raise my suspicion. Did he have a range finder?
 
CHEATLE: Yes, he did. But may I explain that at a number of our sites, especially when you're at outdoor venues, a range finder is not a prohibited item. It is sometimes an item that is brought in by individuals that are going to be at the back.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
LYNCH: But did anybody confront him on that? Anybody ask him questions, what are you doing with the rangefinder? Anybody confront him on, on his presence, where he was in proximity to the president?
 
CHEATLE: So, again, to my knowledge, I believe that that was the process that was taking place, was to locate the individual.
 
LYNCH: Did they -- did they confront him? Did they go up to him. Did they talk to him?
 
CHEATLE: I do not have those details at this time.
 
LYNCH: OK. That -- those are important details.
 
There is also a failure to communicate between law enforcement to act quickly upon information provided by either local law enforcement or rally attendees that the suspect was positioned on the roof. There were minutes of delay before any meaningful action was taken, even though he was several 100 feet from the podium, and this was obviously minutes before the shooting.
 
Let me ask you, there was considerable delay in removing the president from the podium, after the shooting began. He got shot in the air. It was still over a minute before he was removed from the stage.
 
Meanwhile, this shooter had multiple clips, several clips. He got off eight shots, and he had the capacity and the ability, if he was not neutralized, to basically mow down that whole secret service detachment, as well as the president.
 
What, from your own investigation, caused that delay under the circumstances.
 
CHEATLE: What I can tell you is that when the agents identified that the shooting was taking place in under three seconds, they threw themselves on (INAUDIBLE).
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
LYNCH: Oh, I understand that there was heroism there. No question about it. No question about it. But protocol would indicate. And these are, you know, these are the opinions of various former secret service agents, people who have done this work in the past that over a minute of exposure on that podium with a shooter with a high capacity weapon, who had already wounded the president and could have got off, we don't know how many more rounds, and yet, the president remained exposed, even though he was joined in that exposure by the Secret Service in the heroic acts.
 
It just -- it -- I don't know if there's a good explanation for that.
 
CHEATLE: Our personnel created a body bunker on top of the president.
 
LYNCH: I get that. I get that.
 
CHEATLE: Shielding him.
 
LYNCH: Yes, this was -- this was an A.R.-15 style weapon that would have made pretty quick work if he -- if he was determined and able to do so. This is not the first investigation that we've had of the Secret Service during my time here on this committee.
 
And the last one we had, our previous investigation determined that the Secret Service was experienced as staffing crisis that poses, perhaps, the greatest threat to the agency, and that's a quote. Is that staffing crisis still in place? Is that still something that you deal with on a daily basis?
 
CHEATLE: As of today, the Secret Service has just over 8,000 employees. We continue to hire, knowing that we need to ensure that we keep pace with a -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
LYNCH: What would be the full complement of -- 
 
COMER: Gentleman, times expired, but please answer the question, yes.
 
CHEATLE: I'm sorry,
 
LYNCH: What would be the full complement that you're looking for? You've got 8,000 and how many -- How many would be a full complement for the service?
 
CHEATLE: So, we are -- we are still striving towards a number of 9,500 employees, approximately, in order to be able to meet future and emerging needs.
 
LYNCH: OK. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your courtesy. I yield back.
 
COMER: Chair recognizes Dr. Foxx from North Carolina.
 
REP. VIRGINIA FOXX (R-NC): Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 
Director Cheatle, what grade would you give the Secret Service's performance in Butler, Pennsylvania on July 13?
 
CHEATLE: As I've stated, ma'am, this was clearly a failure. I would grade the agents and officers who selflessly threw themselves in front of the president and neutralize the threat.
 <br>[11:00:05]
 
And I think that we need to examine the events that led up to, and prior to that day.
 
END