Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: RFK Jr. Suspends President Campaign; RFK Jr. Endorsing Donald Trump; Deadly Flooding in India and Bangladesh; Gaza Ceasefire Talks "Constructive" and "Moving Forward"; U.N. Warns of Polio in Gaza; Jerome Powell Signals Rate Cuts; Starbucks CEO Perks; Yellowstone National Park's Problems with Tourists; Taylor Swift U.K. Exhibit; Police Treating Solingen Stabbing a Terror Attack. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired August 23, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR:  It is 4:00 a.m. in Dhaka, 8:00 a.m. in Sydney, and 6:00 p.m. here in Atlanta. I'm Lynda Kinkade in for 
 
 Julia Chatterley. And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
A very warm welcome to "First Move." Here is today's need to know. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. suspends his presidential campaign and says he's now 
 
 endorsing Donald Trump.
 
Dozens of people have died and millions have been impacted by heavy rains and floods in India and Bangladesh.
 
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell signals that the time has come to start lowering interest rates.
 
And Swift style, the Taylor Swift exhibition taking visitors through her career with memorabilia and iconic outfits. That conversation and plenty 
 
 more coming up.
 
But first, new twist in the U.S. presidential race. In the past few hours, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. has announced that he's suspending his presidential 
 
 campaign and will now back Donald Trump. Kennedy, who had been running as an independent candidate, says Trump has asked him to play a role in his 
 
 administration should he win in November.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR., FORMER U.S. INDEPENDENT PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Last summer, it looked like no candidate was willing to negotiate a quick 
 
 end to the Ukraine war, to tackle chronic disease epidemic, to protect free speech, our constitutional freedoms, to clean corporate influence out of 
 
 our government, or to defy the neocons and their agenda of endless military adventurism. But now, one of the two candidates has adopted these issues as 
 
 his own, to the point where he has asked to enlist me in his administration. I'm speaking, of course, of Donald Trump.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Trump, who is campaigning in Nevada and Arizona on Friday, thanked Kennedy for his support, calling him a great guy. Kamala Harris has 
 
 also responded to Kennedy's decision. She's promising a new way forward for any voter who is tired of Donald Trump. It comes after she formally 
 
 accepted the Democratic nomination at the party's convention in Chicago.
 
Well, Larry Sabato is the director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia and he joins us now live. Good to see you, Larry.
 
LARRY SABATO, DIRECTOR, CENTER OF POLITICS, UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:  Nice to see you, Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  So, Kennedy Jr. is arguably from America's most famous, greatest, democratic, political family, yet he's throwing his support behind the 
 
 Republican nominee. Given how tight this race is, how much impact will it have?
 
SABATO:  Surprisingly little, Lynda. Surprisingly little. He started as a serious candidate. He was in the upper teens, even some polls had him in 
 
 the low 20s. And basically, he frittered some of that away through some odd maneuverings on his part, and strange things came out about him, like the 
 
 bear cub story. But it's much more than that.
 
Essentially, he was a real candidate because Americans disliked the two old white male candidates who were running for president. They were both 
 
 unpopular. As long as they were the two candidates, he was going to receive leftover support. Well, one of them, Joe Biden, dropped out. And a very 
 
 attractive candidate, Kamala Harris, came in. And suddenly. there wasn't any great need for RFK Jr. anymore. He's now down to a minimum of 2 percent 
 
 in one poll, 5 percent or so in a couple of others. And he's falling like a rock.
 
So, he's not going to be able to transfer much of anything to Trump. Most of those supporters will go their own way. Some will go to Trump. Some will 
 
 go to Harris. Some will go to one of the other third-party or independent candidates. And some will vote for the couch. They'll sit there and not 
 
 vote.
 
So, this doesn't amount to much. It's a big media event at the end of August. It means very little for November.
 
KINKADE:  I'm wondering if it could actually backfire for the Republicans because the Democratic Party are already labeling Vance and Trump weird. 
 
 And now, you've got a Kennedy Jr., a man who's come under scrutiny for some pretty weird things, endorsing them and throwing his support behind them 
 
 and hoping for some sort of high-level role should they win. Will this help or hinder the Republicans?
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
SABATO:  I think you're absolutely right to say that, because this is going to be repulsive to some voters. It looks like a corrupt deal. Well, it is a 
 
 deal, whether it's corrupt or not, it depends on your point of view. But it certainly isn't part of the high-minded idealism that we once associated 
 
 with the Kennedy family.
 
Now, let me quickly say, five of Kennedy's siblings this afternoon came out with a scorching statement, denouncing him and saying he was not 
 
 representative of the Kennedy tradition. So, he doesn't even have the support of his own family.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, exactly right. And of course, now over the last few nights at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, we saw the Democrats 
 
 preaching a message of hope, repeating the phase that we're not going back. What does Kamala Harris have to do to turn that energy, that momentum into 
 
 votes come November?
 
SABATO:  Well, she's on a track to do that. The month before the convention, which is when she entered the race, surprisingly because of 
 
 Biden's withdrawal that no one really anticipated, she was the product of the relief that Democrats felt and many independents that they no longer 
 
 had to pick between Biden and Trump.
 
She capitalized on it. She was ready for the convention. The convention was terrific. And I've been to a lot of these conventions starting in the '70s. 
 
 I would rate this as one of the best. And her speech last night, acceptance address for the presidential nomination, was absolutely the best speech 
 
 she's ever given.
 
So, I'd say she's doing very, very well. And the current polling has her a bit above Trump. It's too early for celebrations. It's too early to 
 
 conclude anything and it's going to be a very close race. But think of the difference between where Democrats are now and where they were before Joe 
 
 Biden dropped out.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, exactly. What a turnaround indeed. Larry Sabato, good to have you with us. Thanks so much. Have a great weekend.
 
SABATO:  You too, Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Well, I want to turn to South Asia now, where millions of people are suffering from devastating floods. At least 36 people have died across 
 
 India and Bangladesh, and almost 4.5 million people have been impacted in Bangladesh alone.
 
Rescue efforts have been hindered by weak phone service, and many people in Bangladesh are blaming India for the deluge. Officials there released water 
 
 from a dam, but they deny that it caused the flooding. Authorities say it was a, quote, automatic release due to the dangerously high levels.
 
Well, Bangladesh isn't the only place suffering from extreme rainfall. A typhoon is headed for Japan while Hawaii braces for a tropical storm. For 
 
 more on this, I'm joined by Chad Myers. Chad, certainly a lot to keep your eye on right now.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes.
 
KINKADE:  How's it looking?
 
MYERS:  An awful lot. And not some good news for some very populated places. Here's the problem. We are seeing significant rainfall that's 
 
 already come down 48 hours ago and still raining in many of the spots that you showed there in the pictures with the flooding.
 
Now, it is monsoon season, don't get me wrong. We should be getting somewhere around 700 millimeters of rainfall in this month. But to get more 
 
 than 300 millimeters in just two days, that's part of the problem. The monsoon will eventually go away, but not really until about October. And 
 
 the problem we have is this onshore flow into the flooded region. There will be areas, Lynda, that will pick up another 150 to 250 millimeters of 
 
 rainfall just over the next five days.
 
Now, turning our attention to Hawaii. Tropical storm system here to the south and to the southeast of it. Still, tropical storm watches are in 
 
 effect for the Big Island. Keep an eye on the cone, it does get wide. It's likely not going to make an impact or a landfall on the Big Island. But 
 
 there will be wind. What happened the last time in Hawaii that we had significant wind? We burned the town of Lahaina down.
 
And now, this year, about 73 percent of the islands are in moderate drought or worse. Yes, there will be some rain, and there may even be some 
 
 flooding. But when you have such a dry area, and the wind blowing 60 to 70 kilometers per hour, we run the risk of wildfires again.
 
Something a lot more sinister out here toward Japan, heading toward Honshu, likely. This storm is just getting going, but it's forecast to rapidly 
 
 intensify over the next couple of days. A 200- to 205-kilometer per hour storm making landfall there to the southeast of Tokyo. Waves, storm surge, 
 
 wind damage, flooding, all in the mix here with what would be a Category 3 to Category 4 Atlantic hurricane.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
So, this is not just a little tropical storm system. This will be a big impact to Japan. We're still talking about three and a half to four days 
 
 before it gets right on the. But the storm is just getting going. The waters are warm. Waters are warm because the climate is warming. And when 
 
 we do that, we can get bigger storms. And that's what we're going to see here, a significant landfall impact to Japan in less than four days.
 
KINKADE:  Wow. All right. We will talk again very soon. Chad Myers, thanks so much. Well, turning to the Mideast now. The Israeli military says it 
 
 targeted multiple Hezbollah fighters falling rocket fire into northern Israel from Lebanon on Friday. The Lebanese health ministry reports that 
 
 eight people have been killed. Hezbollah says at least five were Hezbollah members.
 
In the meantime, Gaza ceasefire talks are continuing. The White House saying that the latest talks are constructive and are moving forward. CIA 
 
 Director Bill Burns has been in Cairo to join other senior negotiators from Egypt, Israel, and Qatar as talks move into the weekend.
 
Our Jeremy Diamond has more now from Tel Aviv.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  Well, a new Israeli proposal regarding one of the key sticking points in these ongoing negotiations is 
 
 now on its way to Hamas. This is a proposal regarding Israeli troop presence along that Philadelphi Corridor, that strategic route along the 
 
 Egypt-Gaza border.
 
And this is significant because this latest proposal would reduce the number of Israeli troops along that corridor and also reduce the number of 
 
 military positions that the Israeli military would maintain there during the first phase of a ceasefire agreement. And what this shows us is that, 
 
 first of all, the Israeli prime minister is willing to show at least some flexibility regarding this issue, even as he insists Israeli troops must 
 
 remain along this corridor.
 
And it also shows us that Egypt seems to think this is a more serious proposal. That's because earlier in the week, the Israeli government 
 
 submitted a previous proposal regarding the Philadelphi Corridor with a map showing where the Israeli troops would be positioned. And the Egyptian 
 
 government effectively rejected that, they wouldn't even submit it to Hamas because they said that it was a total nonstarter for these negotiations.
 
But now, Egypt is actually going to submit this latest proposal with the map, the updated map from the Israeli government to Hamas. The question now 
 
 is whether it will be enough for Hamas to accept and whether it will be enough for Hamas to actually get to the negotiating table. And that is now 
 
 the hope from the Israeli side, at least, is that with this new proposal, if Hamas is at least willing to negotiate over that, then Hamas might 
 
 actually attend the next round of negotiations set for Sunday in Cairo, Egypt, where all of the top players will once again assemble.
 
The last time they assembled in Doha, Hamas didn't actually participate in the talks. They met with the mediators after the rounds of negotiation. But 
 
 this time, there is a hope that they can once again engage in these proximity talks, meaning the Israeli delegation is in one room, the Hamas 
 
 delegation is in another room, and the Qatari and the Egyptian mediators are going back and forth.
 
One thing is clear, though, the urgency of a ceasefire is being made clear every single day in Gaza as we continue to see as strikes in northern, 
 
 central, and southern Gaza, but also now a potential breakout of polio. A 10-month-old baby, according to the United Nations, is now paralyzed due to 
 
 polio. This is the first such case in more than 25 years in Gaza. U.N. officials say a ceasefire is needed to vaccinate the children of Gaza.
 
Jeremy Diamonds, CNN, Tel Aviv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  We have some breaking news just into CNN. German police say at least three people have been killed, at least four severely injured, in a 
 
 stabbing attack in the German city of Solingen, which is near Dusseldorf in the west of the country.
 
Police are not ruling out terrorism and say the attacker is still on the run. A manhunt is underway. The attack occurred at an event to celebrate 
 
 this 650th anniversary of the city's founding. We are expecting more information soon and we'll bring you that as we get it.
 
Well, still ahead, Powell's pivot. The head of the Federal Reserve gives his strongest hint yet that he is ready to lower borrowing costs.
 
And pumpkin spice latte season coming even earlier this year. But that's not the only reason the new CEO of Starbucks is smiling. The latest on his 
 
 pumpkin sized perks just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. A Fed fueled rally on Wall Street tops today's Money Move. U.S. stocks rising across the board after Fed Chair Jerome 
 
 Powell's dovish policy speech on Friday. Powell saying that progress on inflation and a softer jobs picture gives the U.S. Central Bank room to cut 
 
 rates soon.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEROME POWELL, U.S. FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIR:  The time has come for policy to adjust. The direction of travel is clear, and the timing and pace of rate 
 
 cuts will depend on incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We will do everything we can to support a strong labor market as we 
 
 make further progress toward price stability.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, the first Fed rate cut in more than four years is expected when the Central Bank meets next month. And all this after the head of the 
 
 Bank of Japan said he still hopes to raise rates again, calling the global markets, quote, unstable. Asian stocks finished Friday's session mixed.
 
Well, CNN Economics Commentator Catherine Rampell joins me now. Good to see you, Catherine. So, a year's long effort to fight inflation. Now, the Fed 
 
 chair says it's time for a shift. We could see a rate cut. The question is, how big will the cut be?
 
CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS COMMENTATOR:  Exactly. Fed Chair Jerome Powell basically said today what markets have been expecting for a while 
 
 that the Fed is going to change its focus. It has this dual mandate of maximum employment and stable prices. The stable prices part of it is well 
 
 on its way, the Fed thinks, to getting where it needs to be. That is inflation has cooled quite a bit and is heading in the right direction. 
 
 Now, the concern is about the labor market.
 
There was a slight uptick in the unemployment rate in the United States, in the most recent report in July. We'll get another report coming out pretty 
 
 soon in a week or so, for the month of August. And I think that will play a big role in answering that question. How big will the rate cut be? Will it 
 
 be the normal sized change in rates, which is a quarter point -- quarter percentage point, or might the Fed decide that they have been behind the 
 
 curve and need to do something a little bit more aggressive, something like a half a percentage point.
 
Markets are mixed on this. It seems like the consensus is still more like, you know, the smaller, more normal increase -- excuse me, decrease in 
 
 interest rates. But we'll have to see what those reports -- jobs report and otherwise look like in the next few weeks.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, exactly. So, Catherine, what can homebuyers expect given that some banks have already priced in a cut?
 
RAMPELL:  Exactly. So, lots of different credit products, whether it's mortgages, auto loans, or credit card, interest rates are benchmarked off 
 
 of the Fed's funds rate. That's the interest rate that we're talking about when we talk about the Fed changing rates.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
But financial institutions are generally forward looking. They say, hmm, what should we expect the market to look like? What should we expect those 
 
 benchmark interest rates to look like in the months ahead? As a result, we have already seen mortgage rates come down basically since April because of 
 
 this widespread expectation that the Fed was pivoting and was headed towards an interest rate cut.
 
It may be a while before we see rates going down a whole lot further, particularly if borrowers out there or would-be homebuyers are hoping for 
 
 the kinds of ultra-low interest rates that we saw circuit 2020 to 2022 when the Fed was really trying hard to stimulate the economy and had interest 
 
 rates at zero essentially, well, the benchmark interest rate is zero. Mortgage rates were above that, but they were still very low by historical 
 
 terms, and that was an unusual circumstance.
 
I would not expect us to get back to that circumstance anytime soon, unless something really goes wrong in the economy.
 
KINKADE:  And of course, the Democrats have been blamed for the rising inflation by the Republican Party, and of course, the increase in interest 
 
 rates. So, where is -- if there is a cut next month and a significant cut, surely that's going to help Kamala Harris' chances this November?
 
RAMPELL:  I think the Fed is trying to block out all of that chatter about the political impact. They are politically independent. They are supposed 
 
 to do whatever they think is right for the long-term health of the economy regardless of what the political impacts will be.
 
And I think it would be wise if Kamala Harris continues to respect that independence and say, she will not interfere with it. That doesn't mean 
 
 that Donald Trump won't proclaim falsely, in my view, that the Fed is cutting rates precisely to do what you say, to help Kamala Harris. I don't 
 
 think that's what this is about.
 
And again, the reason why the Fed is contemplating rate cuts is because they want to keep the job market on track. They don't want things to, you 
 
 know, cool further to potentially have the unemployment rate go up, or heaven forbid, have net job losses. So, the fact that they're cutting 
 
 rates, you know, is good I guess if you're borrowing, but it also implies that there is some underlying concern about the health of the economy, 
 
 which would of course not be good for Kamala Harris, given that she represents the current administration as well.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Catherine Rampell, good to have you on the program. Thanks so much.
 
RAMPELL: Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, we have been telling you for more than a week now about the super perks Starbucks is giving its incoming CEO, Brian Niccol. And in 
 
 addition to a base salary of more than $1.5 million and a $10 million signing bonus, as well as other performance bonuses, we're now learning 
 
 that Niccol will have access to a private jet that will ferry him back and forth from his home office in California to the company headquarters in 
 
 Seattle, Washington.
 
The private jet perks, however, are causing concern among environmentalists who had applauded the company for other green initiatives. Well, Paul La 
 
 Monica joins me. He is a senior markets analyst at Barron's. Good to have you with us, Paul.
 
PAUL R. LA MONICA, SENIOR MARKETS ANALYSIS WRITER, BARRON'S:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Sorry, a $10 million bonus. on top of the salary, as well as the ability now to take a jet from home across a couple of states. Not bad if 
 
 you can get it, but it's not quite a typical commute to work, is it?
 
LA MONICA:  No, it's -- you know, I think about a thousand miles or so from Southern California to Seattle where Starbucks is based. And you're right, 
 
 Lynda, I think it will raise concerns among many of Starbucks customers who are probably safe to say, skew a little more liberal, progressive leaning 
 
 and would not appreciate the fact that the company is spending all this money on a perk that is not exactly environmentally friendly to just go 
 
 back and forth between Southern California and Seattle.
 
But, you know, Niccol obviously is a rock star CEO who rescued Chipotle from the E. coli crisis it was in, in 2016 and 2017. He did a phenomenal 
 
 job since joining that company in 2018. So, I think investors are hopeful that he can get Starbucks back on track. It's the reason why the stock 
 
 surged on the news of his hiring, but there are going to be, you know, concerns and questions about some of the perks and he really is going to 
 
 have to do an amazing sort of venti sized job of turning Starbucks around to justify some of these perks, especially the corporate jet.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
KINKADE:  Yes, because -- I mean, Starbucks has attempted to project this environmentally conscious approach, eliminating plastic straws recently and 
 
 also, trying to reduce plastic in its new cups that it's rolled out. So, this move literally flies in the face of those efforts. What are some of 
 
 the environmentalists -- environmental groups saying about this?
 
LA MONICA:  Yes. I mean, I think you are going to continue to see criticism from environmentalist groups about the fact that Starbucks is allowing its 
 
 CEO to do this. But to be fair, we don't know yet just how often Brian Niccol really is going to partake in the use of the corporate jet to go 
 
 back and forth from Southern California to Seattle.
 
He also has, you know, a residence or he will have corporate, you know, lodging in the Seattle area to work from as well. But I think there are 
 
 concerns because one of the things that's written out in the, you know, agreement to hire him is that there's also the ability to set up an office 
 
 in Southern California closer to where he lives, having some of the workers there.
 
So, I think it does beg the question, you know, Starbucks is really synonymous with Seattle. I don't ever think that they will move. But let's 
 
 remember, Chipotle was a company that was based in Denver. Brian Niccol then moved it to Southern California. So, he clearly loves where he lives. 
 
 And I guess that was a reason that was a sticking point. He probably wouldn't have wanted to go to Seattle full-time to take this job.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, maybe he will move the headquarters of Starbucks. You never know. But I have to wonder what some of the employees -- 
 
LA MONICA:  I seriously doubt it, but, hey -- yes, I mean -- 
 
KINKADE:  You never know.
 
LA MONICA:  -- the employees can't be too thrilled. Yes.
 
KINKADE:  Yes.
 
LA MONICA:  But, hey, look at the weather in L.A. versus Seattle, it's kind of a no brainer. Sorry, Pacific Northwest.
 
KINKADE:  And I have to wonder what some of the Starbucks corporate employees will think given that the company has been urging them to return 
 
 back to the office given his remote work situation, Paul La Monica, we'll leave it there for now. Thanks so much.
 
LA MONICA:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  We're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade with a look at more international headlines. We are following breaking news this hour. 
 
 German police say three people have been killed and at least four civilians injured in what was a stabbing attack in the German city of Solingen, which 
 
 is near Dusseldorf in Western Germany.
 
Police are not ruling out terrorism and say the attacker is on the run and a manhunt is underway. The attack occurred at an event to celebrate the 
 
 650th anniversary of the city's founding. We are expecting more information on that soon.
 
Right now, we are hearing from the mayor of that town, Tim Kurzbach, who expressed his sadness over the stabbing. Saying, this evening, all of us in 
 
 Solingen, are experiencing shock, horror, and great sadness. We all wanted to celebrate our city's anniversary together and now, we have to mourn the 
 
 dead and injured. 
 
It tears my heart apart that there was an attack in our city and I have tears in my eyes when I think of those we have lost. I pray for all those 
 
 who are still fighting for their lives. I also have great sympathy for all the people who had to witness this. The images must have been terrible. I 
 
 thank all the rescue and security forces for their efforts, and I ask you, if you believe, pray with me, and if not, then hope with me. Again, that's 
 
 the mayor of Solingen, posted on the city's Facebook page.
 
Returning now to our coverage of the American presidential election and Former President Trump has made a slew of endorsements in key battleground 
 
 races as we head into November. According to a new CNN analysis of campaign finance data, some of those campaigns and Trump's own campaign have 
 
 together spent tens of millions of dollars at Trump's businesses. Kyung Lah has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  My new book, "Save America," published by Winning Team Publishing, is now 
 
 available for order.
 
KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In all the ways you already know, Former President Trump publicly makes money selling 
 
 books and bibles.
 
TRUMP:  GodblesstheUSABible.com.
 
LAH (voice-over):  Gold sneakers.
 
TRUMP:  That's the real deal.
 
LAH (voice-over):  And trading cards.
 
TRUMP:  It's called the America First Collection.
 
LAH (voice-over):  It's at Trump properties like Mar-a-Lago, Trump's opulent Florida home, where Republican campaign dollars are pouring into 
 
 Trump's own pocket. More than 150 congressional candidates and political groups have spent millions at Trump properties and associated businesses, 
 
 according to a CNN analysis of federal campaign finance data, with 2024 on track to be the biggest year of spending since 2016. The vast majority of 
 
 the candidates are Republican, and most endorsed by Trump.
 
BERNIE MORENO (R), OHIO SENATORIAL CANDIDATE:  A vote for Trump and Moreno is a vote to put America first.
 
LAH (voice-over):  A clear example is Ohio businessman Bernie Moreno, a political novice who made his fortune selling luxury cars. The same month 
 
 Moreno announced his run for the U.S. Senate last year, he spent 13,000 on event catering at Trump's Mar-a-Lago.
 
The same day one of the payments was made, Trump posted on Truth Social, Moreno is a highly respected businessman who was thinking of running for 
 
 the Senate. Trump endorsed Moreno months later, calling him a MAGA fighter. Two days after the endorsement, Moreno spent $17,000 at Mar-a-Lago and a 
 
 month later, $80,000 more on a fundraiser at the private club attended by some in Trump's inner circle.
 
KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, MEDIA HOST AND DONALD TRUMP JR.'S FIANCEE:  We asked him to come here to Florida so we could bring him here to the president's 
 
 home. So, we could share him with you.
 
LAH (voice-over):  Moreno is now locked in a competitive battle for Ohio's Senate seat with Trump by his side.
 
TRUMP:  He's a hero. He's a winner.
 
KATHLEEN CLARK, LAW PROFESSOR, WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN ST. LOUIS:  That coincidence of this significant spending nearly coinciding with a Trump 
 
 endorsement doesn't prove beyond a reasonable doubt that there's been a bribe. That pattern does and should raise questions in the minds of voters 
 
 about what's really going on here.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The incredible Kari Lake
 
KARI LAKE (R), ARIZONA SENATE CANDIDATE:  I will do everything in my power to make sure this man gets back in the White House. We need him now more 
 
 than ever.
 
LAH (voice-over):  Another Republican endorsed by Trump is also one of Mar- a-Lago's top political spenders. This year alone, Arizona Senate candidate Kari Lake's campaign spent more than $100,000 on lodging, catering, and 
 
 facility rentals.
 
Other top senators spenders at Trump properties include retired football star and former Georgia Republican Senate candidate, Herschel Walker. His 
 
 campaign spent the most of any congressional candidate in the last decade, nearly $215,000 at Mar-a-Lago, Trump's golf club in West Palm Beach, and 
 
 his Las Vegas hotel.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
TRUMP:  You know, Herschel's not only a Georgia hero, he is an American legend.
 
LAH (voice-over):  Trump endorsed Walker, who would go on to lose his race. Political groups also drop big money at Trump's businesses, the RNC 
 
 spending more than $2 million since 2016. But at the top spot by far is Donald Trump himself, whose campaigns and associated political committees 
 
 have funneled more than $28 million in political contributions to his businesses, from renting his ballroom to his campaign, to using election 
 
 donations to pay for his private jet, Trump Force One. Trump the candidate has been paying Trump the businessman.
 
DAN WEINER, BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE:  It's not illegal. The law is that candidates can spend money at their own businesses, provided that the 
 
 businesses provide real goods or services at a fair market rate, but it certainly raises at least an appearance of self-dealing that is very 
 
 concerning from a corruption standpoint.
 
LAH (voice-over):  In a statement, the Trump campaign told CNN these allegations are false, adding committees are paying the fair market rate 
 
 for all venues and services.
 
LAH:  Spokespeople for Bernie Moreno and Herschel Walker did reply to our request for comment, and they say that the Mar-a-Lago fundraisers were 
 
 wildly successful. Walker adding that he and Trump have known each other for 40 years, and his events had nothing to do with Trump's endorsement. We 
 
 did reach out to the Kari Lake campaign, but did not hear back.
 
And it is important to note that despite the criticism you heard in our story, none of this is illegal.
 
Kyung Lah, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, we'll head to Yellowstone National Park for some close encounter lessons on why tourists and wild animals don't mix.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ranching is the only business where the goal is to break even. Survive another season.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, the rolling hills of the Western U.S. there. That was a clip from the hit show Yellowstone. And the show is set on a ranch that 
 
 shares its name with the Yellowstone National Park, which is spread across Montana, Wyoming, and Idaho. The show has been credited with fueling a 
 
 tourism boom, but more tourists mean more problems for the park's wildlife.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CNN's Ed Lavandera went to Yellowstone to learn more about the growing concerns for both the wildlife and their visitors. And he's got a full 
 
 report airing this weekend, but here is a sneak preview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  In this hour, we're going to delve into a fascinating topic, and it's essentially what happens 
 
 when tourists get out into the wild and they lose sight of where they are. So, they often think they're in a zoo. So, we're going to look at this 
 
 topic is calling it Close Encounters: Tourists in the Wild. 
 
And it's a reminder of what people need to remember when they go out into these places, America's national parks, where they're so up close with wild 
 
 animals. And this is really a phenomenon that we've seen explode in recent years because national parks here in the United States have become so 
 
 popular.
 
Millions and millions of people are flocking to these national parks not just here in the United States, tourists from the U.S., but international 
 
 tourists filling up these national parks. And they need to remember that this isn't a zoo, this is a real place with real wildlife animals, and 
 
 there are rules to the road.
 
The motel over there has a sign that says, do not pet the fluffy cows. You constantly have to be reminded about this stuff, because you're walking 
 
 around town, and you think that they're just part of the atmosphere and that they're friendly, and you have to remind yourself they're wild 
 
 animals.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over):  Friendly stranger reminds us of that in a loving way. This is Close Encounters: Tourists in the Wild.
 
It didn't take us long to figure out what not to do. There is such a thing as getting too close to wildlife.
 
Wild animals don't want to take a selfie with you and they especially don't want to be held.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  She's holding it.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over):  This scene was captured in North Carolina. These people pulled black bear cubs out of a tree. And because of this human 
 
 interaction, at least one of the cubs could not be reunited with its mother.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Poor little thing.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over):  Wildlife refuge staff were unable to locate the second cub.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That's insane.
 
LAVANDERA:  To bring you this story, we built it around a four-day trip that we took earlier this year to Yellowstone National Park, and we're 
 
 going to introduce you to a wide range of characters who have been drawn to the outdoors in the wild for a bunch of different reasons. Many people for 
 
 -- some of them for therapeutic reasons that they find peace and harmony being out there in nature.
 
And one of those characters is a man who wrote a book called "Death in Yellowstone," a reminder that there are all sorts of ways for people to get 
 
 themselves in trouble. Real trouble when you're out there in the wild. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Our thanks to Ed. And you can see his full documentary. It is on an all-new episode of The Whole Story with Anderson Cooper. One whole 
 
 story, one whole hour. It is Sunday at 8:00 p.m. in New York. That's 8:00 a.m. Monday in Hong Kong.
 
We're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
KINKADE:  We have an update for you on our breaking news. German police say they are treating a stabbing attack in Solingen as a terror attack. At 
 
 least three people were killed and at least four others were severely injured. Police say they are utilizing all available resources including 
 
 personnel and vehicles and a large-scale manhunt is now underway. We will continue to bring you updates as we get them.
 
Well, Taylor Swift is continuing her Eras Tour despite the recent foiled terror plot that caused her to cancel concerts in Vienna. And now, 
 
 Britain's Victoria and Albert Museum is featuring the artist in a new exhibit. The Taylor Swift Songbook Trail is open through September 8th.
 
And appropriately, it is div it up into various eras of Swift's career. Fans can see memorabilia and iconic outfits worn by the singer, starting 
 
 from when she was just a teenager all the way up to The Tortured Poet's Department. I spoke with the exhibit's curator. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Joining us now is Kate Bailey, the curator of the Taylor Swift Songbook Trail at the Museum. Good to have you with us, Kate.
 
KATE BAILEY, SENIOR CURATOR, VICTORIA AND ALBERT MUSEUM:  Good afternoon. It's nice to see you.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  So, you were the curator of this special exhibition. And as a 
 
 result, you had special access to Taylor Swift's personal archives to select items over her two-decade long career. How did you decide what to 
 
 include?
 
BAILEY:  Well, yes, it's a trail across the museum and we basically decided to take a journey through Taylor's career through 13 chapters. So, 
 
 featuring the 11 eras, but also bookending the narrative with her childhood and the current era that we're in. So, it was an amazing opportunity to 
 
 select works that helped tell her story, but also, worked in dialogue with the museum's collections and spaces.
 
KINKADE:  And as you say, there are 13 installations. And I understand you -- the museum hired four super Swifty fans out of more than 1,000 
 
 applicants to help with this exhibition. How important was that?
 
BAILEY:  Well, actually, the Swifties were helping us with a program of activities. And, I mean, it's been brilliant to learn from them and to 
 
 actually see them in the museum at the moment is just quite extraordinary. Because, obviously, the Swifty fandom, it's an amazing, amazing force and 
 
 amazing knowledge.
 
And actually, the idea of the trail, when I was developing it, it was very much thinking about the sort of idea of Easter eggs and trying to kind of 
 
 create a trail which would create curiosity amongst the fandom.
 
KINKADE:  And of course, Taylor Swift got her first record deal at age 14. She's known for her autobiographical songwriting. I just want to play a 
 
 clip from the music video "The Man."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAYLOR SWIFT, SINGER:  Pretty good. Could you try to be sexier? Maybe more likable this time?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  OK. OK. No problem.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  So, there she is, highlighting double standards. She also directed that music video, one of more than a dozen videos that she's self-
 
 directed. What did she say when she was approached to be part of this exhibition, and how much input did she have?
 
BAILEY:  Well, the project's been with the Taylor Swift Archive. So, we've been working very closely with them. Taylor wasn't involved directly, but 
 
 obviously, working with her team and with her collection to choose these exhibits that we've integrated within the museum's galleries.
 
And it's interesting playing "The Man" sequence because we have the costumes from the video in our galleries, which is incredible. So, to be 
 
 able to show her costumes here along with the award for the music video, along with the director's chair, we can really sort of place that 
 
 storytelling. And it's actually located in the museum flanked by these statues of goddesses of Diana and Venus and against a kind of backdrop of 
 
 male artists.
 
So, there's lots of plays with gender and, you know, it's been brilliant to work with the archive to choose these objects that then work and share her 
 
 story here in London and across the museum.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
KINKADE:  And you also have a dress from the music video clip, "Bejeweled." Talk to us about the items that stand out for you in this exhibition, but 
 
 also those that excite the fans the most.
 
BAILEY:  Yes, I'm in the "Bejeweled," it looks magnificent. We're displaying that fantastic kind of Cinderella kind of look within these 
 
 wonderful sort of velvet curtains. I mean, the "Fortnight" dress is pretty remarkable. And then in the V&amp;A (ph) having a dress that was sort of 
 
 inspired by sort of 1890s fashion. It looks so dramatic. It's also wonderful to have the dress from "Willow," the Evermore Era, and we've 
 
 juxtaposed that within our paintings gallery.
 
Something that I've noticed fans are really, really touched by is the cardigan. The cardigan moment feels pretty epic. We've kind of created the 
 
 exhibit so it feels like Taylor's just left the room. So, the cardigan is presented on a piano stool with a piano installation. And you hear the 
 
 music, you see the cardigan, that's pretty powerful.
 
But I think people are also fascinated to see some of her red carpet looks that she has become so iconic for. So, whether that's the Oscar de la Renta 
 
 dress from the Era's premiere or the amazing highly sequined Oscar de la Renta dress from the Midnight's announcement. So, we've got different 
 
 moments of her career. We've got her stage costumes, which are brilliant. The Reputation stadium tour, amazing black and gold bejeweled costumes. And 
 
 that moment alongside the microphone.
 
But the cowboy boots seemed to be really inspiring fans too. So, wonderful to be able to kind of present Taylor's cowboy boots from 2006, 2007 
 
 alongside her guitar. Because it was really important in this installation, not just to show her looks, but to show her creative process. So, to bring 
 
 the instruments, to bring the act of performance, to bring the storyboards, to bring the whole kind of picture to her sort of multi-faceted career.
 
KINKADE:  It sounds incredible and good news for fans that the exhibition is free. It is going to run for another couple of weeks. Kate Bailey, good 
 
 to have you with us. Thanks so much.
 
BAILEY:  Thank you. Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, in our sports move, a thrilling start to the German football seasons as Borussia Monchengladbach took on the reigning champions 
 
 Bayer Leverkusen in the opening game of the Bundesliga.
 
The game was packed with goals with Leverkusen winning it 3-2. And the last season, they became the first ever team to complete an entire Bundesliga 
 
 season without defeat earning the nickname Bayer Neverlosen.
 
Well, Patrick Snell has more on that and a busy weekend ahead for fans. I love that nickname. Can they do it again? Can they have an undefeated 
 
 season?
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Hi, Lynda. Yes. I love Neverlosen as well. And that still applies. The German Bundesliga league back up and running 
 
 and Leverkusen fans, remember, just recap what happened last year. A first top flight crown ever in the club's 120-year history. Xabi Alonso's team 
 
 unbeaten across every single domestic competition as well.
 
Friday, Leverkusen going to Monchengladbach and a dream start for the champs, how about this, from Granit Xhaka there putting them ahead. 
 
 Absolutely thunderbolt of a strike. Shortly before the break, that lead is double. It's the talented youngster, Florian Wirtz, there with a swish of 
 
 his left foot making it 2-nil.
 
M'gladbach trying to play spoiler. And they make things interesting, they get one back and then, five minutes from time, Tim Kleindienst levelling at 
 
 two apiece, but Leverkusen in the 11th minute of stoppage time, Lynda. It's a penalty, Wirtz sees his initial effort saved, then he tucks it away on 
 
 the rebound. 3-2, the final. It is three more points in the bag for them already.
 
Here's a look at some other key opening weekend fixes in Germany. We got Borussia Dortmund. They got to the Champions League final last season. They 
 
 host Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday. Last season's runners up Stuttgart visiting Freiburg. While on Sunday, Harry Kane's Bayern Munich visiting 
 
 Wolfsburg. It's good to be up and running with German footy, Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Exactly. And so, Patrick, what are the football matches are you keeping your eyes on this weekend?
 
SNELL:  Oh, I'm keeping an eye on my beloved Manchester United. They play the early fixture in the Premier League at 7:30 a.m. U.S. time, that's 
 
 12:30 p.m. the time there in the U.K. And Man City, they're playing newly promoted Ipswich Town.
 
Good storyline, Lynda, around Man City. Ilkay Gundogan, the German player, after just one season in Spain's La Liga with Barcelona, returning to 
 
 Manchester City. So, that's very interesting piece of business. Highly successful time, of course, at City. He was captain of their treble winning 
 
 team last year. So, City play in Ipswich Town Saturday. Also, this weekend, we got the Red Devils, as I mentioned, they go to Brighton. Both teams 
 
 looking to make it back-to-back wins at the start of the new campaign.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
A wonderful match as well over this weekend, Lynda. We got Villa, Arsenal at Villa Park. And then Sunday, Arne Slot's Liverpool welcoming Brentford 
 
 to Anfield. If I sound excited about the return of footy, I am. Back to you.
 
KINKADE:  Good to see. Have a great weekend.
 
SNELL:  You too.
 
KINKADE:  All the best. Thanks, Patrick.
 
We have an update now on a breaking news before we go. German police say they are treating the stabbing attack in Solingen as a terror attack. At 
 
 least three people were killed and at least four people injured. The attack occurred at an event to celebrate the 650th anniversary of the city's 
 
 founding. A large-scale manhunt is underway. Police say they are utilizing all available resources including personnel and vehicles. Stay with CNN for 
 
 more updates.
 
I'm Lynda Kinkade. That wraps up the show. Thanks for joining us and have a great weekend.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END