Headline: Quest Means Business
Sub-headline: Russia Makes Push into Ukraine from Northern Border; Israeli Security Cabinet Approves Potential Rafah Expansion; Rare Geomagnetic Storm Underway; Apple Apologizes For Its Controversial iPad Pro Ad. Aired 4-5p ET

Aired May 10, 2024 - 16:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[16:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST: Cheers and smiles there at the New York Stock Exchange and stocks rallying in to the close of the market, eight straight 
 
 days of gains for the Dow -- a good weekend for investors over the markets, and these are the main events.
 
Civilians flee after Russia mounts a surprise assault on Northern Ukraine.
 
Michael Cohen, Donald Trump's former fixer set to take the stand Monday at the hush money trial.
 
And a new advert for iPads leaves Apple, well, crushed.
 
Live from New York, it is Friday, May 10th. I'm Julia Chatterley in for Richard Quest and this is QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.
 
And a good evening once more.
 
Ukraine's President Zelenskyy says a fierce battle is underway to repel Russia's biggest cross-border assault in years. Civilians of fleeing 
 
 villagers near the city of Kharkiv after Russian forces crossed the northwestern border and penetrated several kilometers into Ukraine. 
 
 Zelenskyy says Kyiv was anticipating the move.
 
Russia has been intensifying its counteroffensive to capitalize on the Ukrainian weaponry and ammunition shortage.
 
Jim Sciutto is in Washington, DC for us.
 
Jim, this is exactly what you were hearing and exactly what you were predicting. They are clearly making grounds and Kyiv was anticipating it, 
 
 but how strong is their defense?
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: This is what western intelligence assessments were concerned about was that though the 
 
 us is now sending additional aid to Ukraine, the long delay in providing that aid, the lag time in getting it to the frontlines is something that 
 
 Russian forces might attempt to take advantage of and that appears to be a factor in this latest, which as you described, Julia, one of the biggest 
 
 pushes we've seen on the ground by Russian forces in some time.
 
The intention appears to create what Russian officials are calling buffer zone inside of Ukraine. Of course, this is sovereign Ukrainian territory, 
 
 but they are attempting to take back Ukrainian territory that you may remember in the early stages of the war, Russia took and then Ukrainian's 
 
 pushed back with their own counteroffensive.
 
The thing is there are just throwing so much at the frontlines, there around Kharkiv, columns of armored personnel carriers, a heavy bombardment 
 
 that has been taking place for days and weeks. The concern is, can Ukrainian forces now hold the line?
 
Our understanding is that they are sending reinforcements, but Julia, this takes place not just in the context of the delay, the long delay in US 
 
 military assistance, but also a manpower shortage on the Ukrainian side of those front lines on the Ukrainian side of the battlefield. So the concern 
 
 is, how much territory can Russia again here? Can Ukraine hold them back?
 
Could this amount to some sort of breakthrough? I mean, certainly Russia is at least trying.
 
CHATTERLEY: And Jim, do we have any sense of when the bulk of that supplies that we know now is coming is set to arrive?
 
SCIUTTO: Some is already there. We know that they were able to get some in quickly, some that was prioritized, particularly for air defenses, but it 
 
 is going to play out over days and weeks and we should note that the Biden administration announced additional aid today, some $400 million or so that 
 
 includes things that they believe those Ukrainian forces need on the frontlines, including Bradley fighting vehicles, armored personnel 
 
 carriers, as well as missiles, long-range missiles, et cetera.
 
So, they are trying to get it there, but listen, it doesn't arrive in a day, right? It arrives over days and weeks and Russia, like we were talking 
 
 about just yesterday, attempting to take advantage of that.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, trying to capitalize on it.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: Everyday matters. Jim, good to have you. Thank you. 
 
SCIUTTO: Thank you. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Jim Sciutto there.
 
Now in other news, we are learning that Israel's Security Cabinet has approved a potential expansion of its operation in Rafah. Now that doesn't 
 
 necessarily mean things were about to escalate in the besieged Gazan city right away, but the War Cabinet can now call the shots without consulting 
 
 security ministers. A reminder that the US president has said he will halt some arms shipments to Israel if it goes ahead with a full-scale invasion, 
 
 something the White House says has not yet happened.
 
Now speaking to US media, Benjamin Netanyahu said his goals have not changed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: I've known Joe Biden for many years, 40 years and more. You know, we often had our agreements, but we've 
 
 had our disagreements. We've been able to overcome them.
 
I hope we can overcome them now, but we will do what we have to do to protect our country. And that means to protect our future. And that means 
 
 we will defeat Hamas, including in Rafah.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: While in a significant yet largely symbolic moves, the UN's General Assembly has overwhelmingly approved a resolution calling on the 
 
 Security Council to reconsider full UN membership for the Palestinians.
 <br>[16:05:09]
 
The US is expected to veto that.
 
Nic Robertson is following all the developments from London for us now.
 
Nic, a symbolic move, but signifying nothing in terms of action because the Security Council will be unable to act upon that.
 
How does what the Security Council decided over in Israel pair with what we are seeing now on the ground in Rafah in terms of activity?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, I think there are several things in play. Obviously, this gives the initiative back to the 
 
 War Cabinet, that very small War Cabinet, the prime minister, the defense minister, and Benny Gantz, so the onus is on them.
 
They have the authority now to expand. I think you can pass the language over you know, what is a major offensive, the White House's red line, if 
 
 you will or partial red line and what is just a small expansion.
 
But the IDF is positioned and ready, and I think that is perhaps their difficulty. They face these challenges this week of the United States and 
 
 President Biden coming out very clearly and setting out his red lines over in the early hours, Monday. They dropped leaflets telling Palestinians to 
 
 leave Rafah, the eastern part of Rafah, 110,000 have.
 
The places they have gone to aren't safe, unsanitary, don't have all the things that they require. The UN is talking about a disaster.
 
But in terms of where the military goes from here, it either has to go ahead or it has to get out of the way because they've got troops in the 
 
 middle of Rafah. They've got troops in the border crossing area, significant numbers.
 
So their posture to go forward if they need to, and I think there was a significant development -- military development this afternoon. The IDF 
 
 said that Hamas fired nine rockets on Be'er Sheva, that's about 30 miles away from Gaza.
 
There haven't been rockets fired there for months and months and months. One of those rockets was intercepted, some got through. One lady was 
 
 slightly injured, not a high casualty rate, but missile landed in a children's play park.
 
So, the IDF is saying those missiles came from Rafah. It hardly seems likely that they are going to sit back and let Hamas, if that is what is 
 
 happening continue to fire those rockets in that way.
 
You know, really, you could look at it this way that Hamas is testing the resolve of the IDF under this increased international pressure. It does 
 
 seem to me that the operation is going to go ahead and the speed of it, the scale of it, I think we are just going to have to judge when it happens.
 
CHATTERLEY: There has been a lot of analysis about what President Biden said and did and the implications of it, both for the Israelis and for 
 
 Hamas. Just to the point that you made there, do you think Hamas is emboldened by what it has seen even if the operation in Rafah intensifies?
 
ROBERTSON: I think every single Palestinian person has felt encouraged by what they've seen at university campuses in the United States about the -- 
 
 and Europe about the red lines that President Biden is establishing with Prime Minister Netanyahu that haven't been there for decades upon decades, 
 
 upon decades.
 
It was a very emotional testimony you heard from the Palestinian representative at UN today talking about the Palestinian flag flying above 
 
 US university campuses.
 
So yes, absolutely. Hamas fills emboldened by what it is seeing there. The fact that Israel doesn't or won't be able to drop such large ordnance 
 
 potentially on Rafah doesn't necessarily mean that less civilians will be killed. They may not just be killed in such significant big numbers, you 
 
 know, scores upon scores upon scores in some of those very big military operations in the north of Gaza when the offensive began.
 
So it potentially makes it a little more dangerous for the IDF troops on the ground. You had the IDF yesterday saying that they stood on "a hornet's 
 
 nest" in Rafah, and nine soldiers where lightly injured. One soldier moderately injured when as the IDF says, those soldiers were stung.
 
When the IDF began these operations in the north of Israel, they did it with maximum ordnance to protect the troops. Potentially, the operation in 
 
 Rafah, won't use such big ordnance and perhaps will put troops in harm's way.
 
But absolutely, civilians there. Palestinian civilians are in harm's way and they were dying today.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, critical perspective. Nic Robertson, thank you.
 
Now, since the military operations began in Gaza, a growing, number of Palestinians as Nic was saying are being held in a military detention 
 
 center in the Negev Desert. A shadowy facility where reports of widespread abuse of detainees are emerging.
 
Now for the first time, CNN can speak to serving Israeli whistleblowers who have worked in various capacities at the prison. They describe a systemic 
 
 pattern of abuse there, including mass detention in stressed positions, sensory deprivation, beatings and torture.
 <br>[16:10:15]
 
They say they are speaking out as a matter of conscience.
 
Matthew Chance has this exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's a place the Israeli military doesn't want us to see.
 
CHANCE (on camera): How many Palestinians are there in there right now?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who are you? Give me please now.
 
CHANCE: Hang on. What is it you want? My camera or my card?
 
CHANCE (voice-over): But CNN has gained exclusive evidence of Palestinian prisoner abuse from multiple Israeli whistleblowers.
 
At the Sde Teiman facility in Southern Israel, we joined human rights activists amid growing public concern for the detainees being held inside.
 
CHANCE (on camera): This is a protest by Israeli citizens outside a detention center close to Gaza, where we know hundreds of Palestinians have 
 
 been held.
 
You can see it's a closed military facility. It's behind the barbed wire fence. We're not permitted access.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): And this hostility from passersby.
 
CHANCE (on camera): We just had somebody drive past in a car and they shouted out to us in Hebrew, you're defending murderers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. No.
 
CHANCE: You're defending --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, no, we're defending basic human rights.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): And eyewitnesses are now speaking out.
 
Away from the military facility near the beaches of Tel Aviv, one young Israeli Army reservist agreed to speak about scores of detainees at Sde 
 
 Teiman he says are kept in cages or pens, constantly shackled and blindfolded many for weeks on end. We've hidden his identity and voice to 
 
 shield him from prosecution.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We were told they are not allowed to move and must sit up right. They are not allowed to talk or peek under 
 
 their blindfolds.
 
CHANCE (on camera): And what happened if they if they did do that? What kind of punishments were meted out?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We were allowed to pick out problematic people and punish them. Having them stand with their hands 
 
 above their heads for an unlimited time. If they didn't keep their hands up, we could zip tie them to the fence.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): The Israeli military says detainees are handcuffed based on their risk level and health status. But the account tallies with 
 
 photographic evidence obtained by CNN of Palestinian detainees inside Sde Teiman.
 
And with hand and wrist injuries shown to CNN by dozens of Palestinians released back into Gaza.
 
(UNIDENTIFIED MALE speaking in foreign language.)
 
CHANCE: "We're zip-tied and blindfolded," says this former detainee, "And tortured in a way I never imagined."
 
One source telling us the restraints were so tight they had to amputate a man's hand.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): The view that I've heard expressed is that you know, how do you think Israeli hostages are treated by Hamas?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): This sentiment was voiced in the facility, but I think that if Hamas is so abominable, which I agree with, 
 
 then why use Hamas as a bar? It's a descent into dehumanization.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): A descent that's accelerated. Since the rampage by Hamas on October 7th last year, the killing and abduction to Gaza of 
 
 hundreds of Israelis provoked outrage and a brutal response.
 
Amid Israel's wrath, tens of thousands of Palestinians have been killed, and thousands detained for interrogation. Transported to facilities like 
 
 Sde Teiman where one Israeli guard now tells CNN prisoners are routinely beaten.
 
We've hidden his identity and voice, too.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): You can take them out and hit them maybe four or five times with a club. It's not there in the face so you 
 
 don't see blood. The detainees lie belly down, being hit and kicked, people screaming, and dogs barking at them. It's terrifying. Some detainees are 
 
 taken away and beaten really hard. So bones and teeth are broken.
 
CHANCE (on camera): So you saw people who are subject to these beatings or had their bones broken and who had their teeth broken?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Yes. It's a practice which commanders know about. They want intelligence, but they also want revenge 
 
 and punishment for what happened on October 7th.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): The Israeli military hasn't approved CNN's requests for access to Sde Teiman. But at the gates of the facility, we challenged 
 
 the Israeli guards.
 
CHANCE (on camera): How many Palestinians are in there right now?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know. I prefer not to answer it.
 
CHANCE: I see. Do you know if they're handcuffed? Are they being blindfolded?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, no, no.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a facility.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): As we leave, masked soldiers approached.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hello. How are you?
 
CHANCE: I'm filming this way.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You cannot film --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CHANCE: We'll leave now.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of the Army so if you --
 
CHANCE: Who are you guys? We're CNN.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CHANCE (voice-over): They tried to take our cameras.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Give me please now. Give me please now.
 
CHANCE: Hang on, what is it that you want? My camera or my card?
 
CHANCE (voice-over): Then order us to leave.
 
CHANCE (on camera): Well, we're driving now to meet one Israeli with personal experience at the Sde Teiman facility. It's experience that he 
 
 says has left him shocked at the condition and the medical treatment of Palestinian detainees there.
 
Hello.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): He told us he treated Palestinian detainees with gunshot wounds, fresh from the war zone in Gaza, and was appalled at the 
 
 lack of equipment and expertise.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): The problem is Gazans who are brought in are labeled as terrorists and it is very popular opinion over 
 
 here that terrorists deserve to die. So they do not deserve the same medical care as everyone else.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): Satellite imagery obtained by CNN shows how the Sde Teiman facility was expanded after the October 7th attacks with detention 
 
 facilities and makeshift medical bays being added after public hospitals in Israel refused to treat injured Gazan suspects.
 
Eyewitness accounts described a field hospital with 15 to 20 patients virtually naked and blindfolded with hands and feet shackled to their beds, 
 
 and wearing diapers.
 
What eyewitness told CNN painful procedures were carried out by underqualified medics, treatment the medical worker told us amounts to 
 
 punishment.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): In my view, it's the idea of total vulnerability. If you imagine being unable to move, being unable to see 
 
 what's going on, that's something that borders if not crosses into psychological torture.
 
CHANCE: The Israeli military says prisoners are stripped for security checks and that investigations are opened when there's suspicion of 
 
 misconduct.
 
Still, accounts from Israelis and Palestinians inside and the shocking images paint a disturbing picture.
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, at Sde Teiman in Southern Israel.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: The White House has now responded to CNN's report saying the allegations raised are "deeply concerning. The Biden administration says it 
 
 is now reaching out to its Israeli counterparts to get more information about the claims.
 
Okay, we are going to take a quick break here on QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.
 
Coming up, Donald Trump's hush money trial wrapped up early for the day, but not before the defense asked the judge to put a gag order on Michael 
 
 Cohen.
 
We will have recap of all the day's proceedings next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:20:47]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back.
 
Donald Trump's hush money trial wrapping up early with the judge deciding to call it a day after lunch. Prosecutors called several witnesses to 
 
 establish a record of phone calls, messages, and transactions.
 
We learned earlier too that Trump's former lawyer Michael Cohen is expected to testify on Monday.
 
Now, after the jury was dismissed for the day, Trump's attorneys asked the judge to put a gag order on Cohen. The judge said, he can't, but he told 
 
 prosecutors to ask Cohen to stop talking about the case.
 
Jessica Schneider is in Washington for us.
 
The end of week three of testimony, Jessica, just set the scene. Where did we end the week? Bring us up to speed.
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: We ended the week, Julia, with a lot of ministerial witnesses, and by that, I mean, they were really 
 
 used to get evidence into the record.
 
We heard from representatives from Verizon, from AT&amp;T, they brought in phone records that presumably we will see next week when Michael Cohen 
 
 testifies.
 
We also saw staffers from the District Attorney's Office who had reviewed social media posts, also texts that have been subpoenaed from phone 
 
 companies, and again, this was all just to get everything into the record so that when Michael Cohen takes the stand starting Monday, the prosecutors 
 
 will be able to sort of bolster whatever he says with actual records.
 
We saw that earlier in the week as well when they brought in the various checks that were written to Michael Cohen, the ledgers, the accounting 
 
 records. So all of this because Michael Cohen is a problematic witness. When he gets onto the stand and when the defense team gets to take their 
 
 crack at him with cross examination, they are going to hammer the point that Michael Cohen is convicted -- is a convicted felon, convicted of lying 
 
 to Congress, and they're going to use that to try to erode his credibility and tried to say to the jury, how can you believe this guy, he has been 
 
 convicted of lying.
 
So, the prosecution needs to do all it can to bolster whatever Michael Cohen is going to say on the stand with cold, hard evidence, and that's 
 
 what they've been working bit by bit to get into the record.
 
So maybe a bit boring at times for those of us watching from afar, maybe a bit boring for the jury, but it is all what the prosecution needs to have 
 
 done to get this all in before Michael Cohen takes the stand.
 
Interestingly, the prosecution has said they only have two more witnesses to call. They will call Michael Cohen on Monday. Then there will be one 
 
 more before they rest their case. Then the defense can put witnesses on the stand. It is still unclear if Donald Trump will testify in his own defense.
 
Most legal watchers are saying, he won't, that it just wouldn't be smart for him to take the stand. So it is going to be interesting to see because 
 
 presumably maybe by the end of next week, although it is a shortened week, we only have three days next week, so maybe by the end of next week or the 
 
 beginning of the following in week, the prosecution could have its case-in- chief wrapped up, then we will see what the defense does with it.
 
It is possible this jury could be in the deliberating room by the time we get to Memorial Day. So Julia, it is going to be really must-watch 
 
 testimony or at least must-watch what we are getting from the courtroom in terms of what we are seeing, the information they are sending out from the 
 
 courtroom because Michael Cohen, probably the crucial witness in this case for the prosecution, for the prosecution to prove its case, we saw how 
 
 riveting Stormy Daniels' testimony was, especially how riveting and at times combative the cross-examination was expected to be even exponentially 
 
 more interesting and more explosive when Michael Cohen takes the stand.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, feisty, I think is the word --
 
SCHNEIDER: It is the word.
 
CHATTERLEY: You were looking for there.
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: Jessica Schneider, thank you so much for that.
 
Okay, let's bring in Richard Klein. He is a law professor at Touro University.
 
Richard, fantastic to have you with us.
 
I keep having to remind myself, this is a case about falsifying documents for the purpose of hiding payments that were made to silence an adult porn 
 
 star, to protect Trump's reputation heading into our presidential election.
 
Has the prosecution made that case yet in your mind?
 <br>[16:25:00]
 
RICHARD KLEIN, LAW PROFESSOR, TOURO UNIVERSITY: I don't think they've shown everything that they need to show. They certainly have shown that there 
 
 were payments made and those payments were deemed to be legal expenses, but I don't think they've shown that Trump was aware of what those payments 
 
 were going to be used for. So, I really don't think they've made the case.
 
In terms of showing Trump's knowledge that money was being paid to Michael Cohen, this was his lawyer. He was paying legal fees all the time to 
 
 Michael Cohen that these checks were made for the purpose of shutting up, hushing up Stormy Daniels for the purpose of not impacting upon his 
 
 campaign.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, that this was campaign finance violations.
 
Michael Cohen then expected to take the stand, star witness. He is being called next week. Do you think he closes that gap? Because ultimately what 
 
 you're saying is that gap hasn't yet been closed. Is he the one to do it?
 
KLEIN: No. I mean, I think you're absolutely right, he could, and his testimony will. The only problem is and I am speaking as a trial lawyer is 
 
 that oh, boy, is there a lot to work with in terms of cross-examining this guy. Because I think what one wants to show to discredit any witness is if 
 
 they have a bias.
 
They've made prior contradictory statements and they have an interest in the case and Cohen has put his reputation now, he has gone over and over 
 
 and over again saying that Trump had done this, Trump had paid him, and if Trump is found not guilty here, Cohen's career is even more ruined, that it 
 
 has been biased.
 
So he certainly has a bias. He has made loads of contradictory statements in the past. So I think that he is a dream to cross-examine, and I think 
 
 that Trump's lawyers are going to do a really good job in challenging this crucial witness' credibility.
 
CHATTERLEY: Do you think the prosecution has been somewhat complacent in this case? I mean, it is a legal case, but it is also a character case to 
 
 your point about perhaps the floors with Michael Cohen. One could also say that, too, I think about the former president and perhaps what we've heard 
 
 this week.
 
But I do get the sense that there is a sort belief that this is a Manhattan jury in a very predominantly Democratic state, and that actually, this 
 
 whole thing shouldn't be too hard.
 
KLEIN: Oh that's so interesting. So you're expressing Trump's concern basically. Trump is concerned and he has called these people, these jurors 
 
 liberal Democrats, they're going to convict whatever. But I don't think that Bragg would have such confidence because I think that he knows it is 
 
 going to be hard. He knows that he has to rely basically on these two witnesses, Stormy Daniels and Michael Cohen.
 
And I can't imagine that there is too much confidence on their end, because I think in spite out Alvin Bragg and the prosecutors connecting all the 
 
 dots, when those jurors go back to deliberate, they're going to have Stormy Daniels' testimony in mind. They are going to have Michael Cohen's 
 
 testimony in mind, and for there to convict in this case, they're really going to have to find that those witnesses were credible, and that is a 
 
 hard job, and I can't imagine that the DA isn't fully aware that that is a very tough job.
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, it is so interesting.
 
Professor, if you had to gauge, and I know it is very difficult because we are still waiting for testimony, what's your probabilities on whether the 
 
 former president will be found guilty here based on everything you just said.
 
KLEIN: Well, I think what we don't know really are who these jurors are. There was a short voir dire. There weren't a lot of questions asked about 
 
 those jurors, but I think that just as a trial lawyer, again, one is always suspicious of jurors wanting to get on the case, really wanting to get on a 
 
 case and then couching their answer for the jury to just come in in a way that's not going to lead to them getting knocked off the case.
 
So there could be some jurors sitting on that case who will say, but wait, I am so eager to get this guy, this is my chance finally to eliminate any 
 
 chance that Trump is going to get re-elected again and will do everything I can to get a conviction, then there might be those who do buy into Trump's 
 
 claim that he has just been victimized and that he has been persecuted.
 
So we really don't know. We do know that all 12 jurors have to agree on a verdict, that's going to be tough, and jurors in spite of their answering 
 
 the questions during the jury questioning phase that they're going to simply depend on the testimony in this case to reach their verdict, there 
 
 are prejudices of those jurors, there were biases out there of those jurors and one doesn't know.
 <br>[16:30:02]
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I just wonder whether often, particularly for Stormy Daniels over the past week, whether you have perhaps more or less sympathy 
 
 for the former president. 
 
I have to wrap up, Professor Richard Klein, Fantastic to speak to you, sir. Have a fantastic weekend. 
 
KLEIN: Sure.
 
CHATTERLEY: Thank you. 
 
KLEIN: Okay. 
 
CHATTERLEY: All right Apple apologizing for an ad that some people say celebrates text triumph over human creativity. We'll look at the ad that 
 
 Apple now admits "missed the mark", that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. 
 
A rare solar storm has begun and is expected to continue throughout the weekend. Now, it could cause major issues for GPS systems, power grids, and 
 
 radio communications. 
 
A sunspot cluster is directing flares at Earth, disrupting the planet's magnetic field. Those same forces are also creating dazzling displays in 
 
 the sky. 
 
On New Zealand's South Island, people living in Central Otago were treated to this stunning display of Southern Lights. 
 
Meanwhile, forecast to see the northern lights may be seen as far south as the U.S. states of Alabama and Northern California. Wow. 
 
Chad Myers is at the CNN weather center for us. Chad, a visual delight but clearly it's got massive downsides, potentially too.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: 100 percent more downside than upside for most people that have electronics. I can look around and see no one that 
 
 doesn't have an electronic.
 <br>[16:35:05]
 
Yes, we have now plasma in the atmosphere. This is a corona mass ejection. And coronal mass ejection is when the sun pushes out a puff of its plasma. 
 
 And it goes right toward the earth. 
 
Most of the time, it misses the earth, think about 3D space and the sun's here and the Earth's here. It could go that way. It could go that way. 
 
Well, this one pushed right toward the earth. And there was a solar flare first kind of opening up the solar sun's corona mass ejections potential, 
 
 and then there it was, there's actually been six of them now, kind of the puff, you can kind of see the little puff, wait for it, there it goes, just 
 
 like that. 
 
And that's what we're watching moving toward the earth from that big sunspot, a very large sunspot.
 
I mean, we're talking 16 times the size of the Earth in that little dot, right there. 
 
So, here's kind of how it works. We're watching the sun, we're watching the plasma come out of the sun, and make contact with the earth. And in fact, 
 
 more than one time. Now that we know that there were five or six of these ejections, what we're seeing is that this plasma in the atmosphere is kind 
 
 of building on itself, fluctuating a little bit, but it's there now. 
 
And every time another one of these puffs comes by the Earth, we're going to add more plasma to it, why do we care? Because the power lines that run 
 
 across the globe actually can grab some of that energy and make more power than it's expected in those power generating lines. 
 
And so, all of a sudden, you send that extra power to a distribution center, it doesn't know what to do with it, it can send you more volts than 
 
 you want in your house with called power surges. And that's what we're seeing. 
 
But now the fluctuation from the first one that happened about there, happened about 16:40 Zulu, so about 12:30 in the afternoon, East Coast 
 
 time. And that up and down, solar wind has been moving, kind of every time something goes by, we get an increase in the solar wind. And that's what 
 
 we're seeing here. 
 
And this is going to be the problem for the rest of the night. In fact, even at my house, I have my washing machine turned off at the breaker, my 
 
 dryer because they're brand new and they cost like $500 U.S. and so, I have my microwave turned off as well because these little surges can actually 
 
 ruin some of the electronics, the electronics being in the computers that are inside the unit itself. 
 
They are not going to really ruined the motor and all that but it's these tiny little will be called weak links in the system. Remember, the weakest 
 
 link makes the chains the less strong? Well, that's what we have. All of these computers inside all of our electronics that could be taking these 
 
 power surges, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Chad, that's brilliant advice. So, if you're in the zone, turn everything off and avoid those power surges that can produce some damage. 
 
Great to chat to you. Thank you. 
 
Now, Apple is apologizing and says it "missed the mark" on an ad that critics say celebrates technology's destruction of human art and 
 
 creativity. Just take a look and see what you think for yourself.
 
The ad shows a hydraulic press crashing musical instruments, pink cans and other creative tools, compressing them into an iPad. It's a rare misstep 
 
 for the company which has strong ties to creative industries of course.
 
While some people are also noting the ad similarities to the one put out by L.G. 15 years ago, they didn't face the backlash that Apple is receiving 
 
 now.
 
Clare Duffy is in New York for us. Everything you guys can do, iPad can do better, which is perhaps innovation. 
 
But I think the key point is 15 years ago, we didn't have Hollywood spending half the year protesting, it wasn't in the shadow of A.I. and we 
 
 didn't have game studios making people redundant and tone deaf, I think is the word or the phrase I'm looking for here.
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: Yes, Julia, it really is a rare marketing fail for Apple. I mean, on the one hand, you do have that 2008 L.G. ad that 
 
 is so similar to this latest Apple ad. 
 
I will say, I did ask Apple about that and the company did not respond to my request for comment. But more than that, it really is just this tone 
 
 deaf nature Apple feels really out of touch with this latest iPad ad with its customer base, and especially with the creatives that used its 
 
 products. 
 
Look, many creative industries have been really worried over the past couple of months about the ways that technology and especially now with 
 
 A.I. could make their jobs obsolete. 
 
And it appears that this is exactly what this ad is illustrating. It's also interesting because Apple is really known for making these more uplifting 
 
 motivational ads. And some people have drawn a comparison with this 1984 Apple ad which celebrated the launch of the Macintosh. Let's take a watch 
 
 of that one.
 <br>[16:40:09]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On January 24, Apple Computer will introduce Macintosh. And you'll see why 1984 won't be like 1984.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DUFFY: So, it's so interesting because that 1984 ad really seemed to celebrate Apple as the small upstart that was taking on demand, taking on 
 
 issues in society. And now with this latest ad, we sort of have the evolution of Apple but not in a good way. It's almost like Apple is now 
 
 this behemoth that's out of touch with its customers, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, a Goliath that's crushing Davids. That's what happens when you get too big for your boots.
 
Clare, very quickly, because we haven't got much time. They faces some pressures of their own workers.
 
DUFFY: Yes, Apple this weekend is going to be facing the first Apple retail store that voted to unionize back in 2022. Workers say that since then, 
 
 they have not had their core demands met by the company. So they're actually going to be voting this weekend on whether to authorize a strike. 
 
And this is really significant, because you have to imagine that there are many other Apple retail stores around the country that will be watching to 
 
 see what these Apple workers in Maryland can convince the company to do. 
 
There's already one other Apple retail store that's voted to unionize a third store that will be voting on whether to unionize this weekend. And of 
 
 course this Apple Labor Movement comes as the company is already facing pressure in so many other areas. 
 
So, just one more thing on CEO Tim Cook's plate, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, regulation, China, you name it. Yes, Clare Duffy, thank you so much for that report. Fascinating to see how those discussions go. 
 
All right. And that just about wraps up QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. Up next, "CONNECTING AFRICA". We'll see you next week.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:59:39] 
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: Welcome to THE LEAD. I'm Jake Tapper. 
 
This hour, one of the biggest competition shows in the world rocked by protests over the Israel Hamas war demonstrations outside as an Israeli 
 
 singer in the final round is facing pressure from fellow contestants and critics are calling for a boycott because she exists. 
 
Plus, the high stakes report looming over President Biden on whether Israel violated international laws in its war with Hamas in Gaza. 
 
END