Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Inside the Effort to Undermine the Election if Trump Loses; Beijing Residents Speak Out on U.S. Election; North Korean Troops Gearing Up to Fight Ukrainians; Subway Surfing: Social Media Trend Turns Deadly. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired November 01, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR: ... And do you have a candidate that better understands the opportunities afforded by Saudi Vision 2030? And who would Saudi prepare to work with?
 
FAISAL BIN FARHAN AL SAUD, SAUDI FOREIGN MINISTER: We are quite prepared to work with either administration or either candidate should they gain the trust of the American people. It's really up to the American people to decide.
 
ANDERSON: Becky Anderson, CNN, Riyadh in Saudi Arabia.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Well thanks to Becky for bringing us that and we must add Israelis strenuously deny any accusations of genocide.
 
Now will there be more trade wars and tariffs. People in Beijing weigh in on the U.S. presidential election? That's after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Max Foster. If you'll just join us, here are some of today's top stories. 
 
The death toll in Spain from heavy rains and flash flooding has risen to at least 158 people. Emergency workers continue rescue efforts for those who are still trapped. Valencia is the hardest hit region, seeing its heaviest rainfall in 28 years. 
 
An Israeli military source tells CNN the country is at a high level of readiness for possible retaliation from Iran. But the source says they are still determining if and when an attack would take place. This follows Israel's own retaliatory strike against Iran last week. 
 
The final stretch of the U.S. presidential election will run through the swing state of Wisconsin later today. Both Kamala Harris and Donald Trump are set to rally there. The two made multiple campaign stops on Thursday with singer Jennifer Lopez joining Harris for a rally in Las Vegas a few hours ago. Some of Trump's supporters are already pushing false claims of voter fraud and promoting lies about a rigged election.
 
CNN's Donie O'Sullivan has more now on the multi-front plan that they have to contest the election.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's like how much theft can they get away with in order to prevent Trump from winning?
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Do you think he's going to win? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If we have a fair election, yes. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: There's no way he can lose fairly?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Fairly, there's no way he can lose. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): MAGA World is preparing its followers for a stolen election.
 
GREG STENSTROM, AUTHOR: They're just going to announce Harris is the winner. We're going to go, we win again and now try to stop us again. And what's different this time is we're going to be able to stop them.
 
MARK BURNS, PASTOR: Is there anybody here in North Carolina ready to take this nation back? By any means necessary, say yes, yes, yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): They're laying out step-by-step plans to overturn a potential Harris victory. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
These are not random Trump supporters. These are influential figures in the MAGA movement.
 
IVAN RAIKLIN, MAGA ACTIVIST: It's all going to depend on what they end up doing. I have a plan and strategy for every single component of it. And then January 6th is going to be pretty fun.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Many of them, like Ivan Raiklin and Michael Flynn, have huge audiences online and are involved in election denying groups that have spent millions of dollars furthering election conspiracy theories.
 
MICHAEL FLYNN, FORMER U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: And we should know by Tuesday night, by about 9 or 10 o'clock at night, that one party won.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Election officials across the country have explained that we likely won't know the full results on election night. To conspiracy theorists, however, that is a sign of fraud.
 
FLYNN: In this case, I strongly believe that Donald Trump, if this thing is a fair election, he'll win all 50 states.
 
RAIKLIN: Now, if it's legit, we don't have to worry, right? But who thinks it's going to be legit? You think they're just going to give it to you? No, this is going to be a fight. O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Raiklin has encouraged people to pressure their state representatives not to certify election results if they suspect fraud.
 
RAIKLIN: We try to play fair. They steal it. Our state legislatures are our final stop to guarantee a checkmate.
 
RAIKLIN: Be prepared on January 1st to apply the maximum motivation to your state reps, state senators.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): In North Carolina, he and another right-wing activist are going as far to say there should be no election because of the destruction after Hurricane Helene. They say the Republican- controlled state legislature should decide which presidential candidates get their electoral college votes.
 
NOEL FRITSCH, NATIONAL FILE: We don't have to do this popular vote in the state stuff for this federal election. We don't have to do it. 
 
RAIKLIN: You got 120 House reps. How many of those are Republican? The majority. How about a significant majority? So then how is the House body going to likely vote with your motivation for the Republican nominee? What about the Senate? Majority.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): The idea is fringe and it is extreme, but a Republican congressman endorsed the idea at an event with Raiklin --
 
REP. ANDY HARRIS (R-NC): I would say, hey, look, you got disenfranchised in 25 counties. You know what that vote probably would have been, which would be if I were in the legislature, not to go, yes, we got to convene a legislature.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): -- before eventually walking it back. 
 
The idea that the only way Harris can win is if the election is stolen is being pushed across hundreds of MAGA media outlets and from the former president himself.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: Because they cheat. That's the only way we're going to lose because they cheat.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): And it's convincing his base. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: What if the results show that Harris won? Do you think Trump will accept that?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't think anybody will accept that because we know it's going to be a lie. But if that's what it is, it's what it is. We'll go from there. We'll see what happens. So I just don't think that Trump's going to lose.
 
O'SULLIVAN: You think he won last time?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, definitely. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: What happens if he loses?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If he loses, we're all going down January 6th.
 
O'SULLIVAN: And, you know, I think if we heard this rhetoric a few years ago, we would have said it is just that. It's only rhetoric. It's only talk and nothing might come of it. These people might not be serious. But of course, we know now what happened in January 6th, 2021, that these words can lead to very drastic actions. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Now, relations between the U.S. and China, the world's two largest economies, have a significant influence on the world. So how do the Chinese people and their government view the coming U.S. presidential election? 
 
Marc Stewart has been monitoring that for us from Beijing. Hi, Marc.
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Max. Look, I will tell you, as someone who lives in China, who works in China, I get asked about the U.S. election all the time. People want to know, who do I think is going to win? Who am I personally supporting? Yet at the same time, it doesn't dominate everything. People are worried about their families, their health, their children.
 
Let me share with you some of the reactions we got when we recently took to the streets here in Beijing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I know about it. But I don't pay too much attention to it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I don't think it will have any impact on our life here. To us ordinary Chinese people, whoever becomes a president, whether it's candidate A or candidate B, it's all the same.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: A lot of people didn't want to talk to us, period, which is not a surprise here in China. Let me also share with you social media, because there are some pretty direct, pointed responses. These are some of the responses we've seen in recent days.
 
Someone saying: The U.S. is about to split. 
 
Another person saying: Doesn't matter who it is. Their containment of China won't ease.
 
Another saying: There's no perfect system, but at least they allow people to question them. 
 <br>[04:40:02]
 
You know, Max, as you know, social media is very censored here in China. But if there's any kind of remark that shows the discord, that shows the tension in the political system in the United States, that is something that usually seeps through to the bigger audience.
 
FOSTER: Xi Jinping presumably hasn't endorsed a candidate, but is there any indication which one he prefers?
 
STEWART: Well, that is a question that is asked at these daily briefings every day. Look, you can argue that Beijing would like to see a Trump presidency because the former president has shown a critical eye toward alliances such as NATO at a time when China is really trying to portray itself as the alternative world leader, the leader of a new world order. Yet at the same time, it may favor the predictability from a Harris administration, as we've seen with the Biden administration. There are diplomatic discussions taking place. 
 
But Max, this is going to be tough for China because there is one issue that really unites both parties, and it's the issue of tariffs. And that's a very thorny issue and really could have an impact on China, especially as it tries to revive its economy.
 
FOSTER: Indeed. Marc Stewart in Beijing. We'll wait and see what happens next week. Thank you. 
 
Staying in Asia, North Korean troops are heading for the fight against Ukrainians, probably in just a matter of days. That's from U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who spoke alongside U.S. and South Korean officials on Thursday. 
 
As Oren Liebermann now reports, the U.S. says it's seeing clear signs that North Koreans are gearing up for battle.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: In a meeting between the U.S. secretaries of state and defense and their South Korean counterparts, the U.S. went further than it's ever gone before in talking about North Korean troops and their involvement not only with Russia, but in the war in Ukraine. 
 
In a matter of days here, the U.S. went from saying there were 3,000 North Korean troops training in Russia to saying there are 10,000, including 8,000 of those of whom are near or in the Kursk region of Russia, where the Ukrainians have conducted a successful offensive and seized some Russian territory there. 
 
Now, Secretary of State Antony Blinken saying it is only a matter of days, quote, in the coming days, that we expect to see North Korean troops involved in the fighting and the war in Ukraine.
 
He also went further than that to talk about the type of training they have received and that makes it very clear they are becoming part of Russia's war machine.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Russia has been training DPRK soldiers in artillery, UAVs, basic infantry operations, including trench clearing, indicating that they fully intend to use these forces in frontline operations.
 
LIEBERMANN: With the South Korean ministers of defense and foreign affairs here, North Korea making their displeasure obvious with the launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile, the longest flight time we have seen, nearly 90 minutes from North Korea here. It's about a year since they last tested and fired off an ICBM here, so it appears they may be showing one of their more advanced missiles and advanced missile launchers here. 
 
The U.S. and South Korea watching this very closely and making it clear there will be some form of response and deep intelligence sharing and cooperation on that front as well. The U.S. and South Korea carrying out a large-scale aerial exercise following that launch. More than 100 advanced fighter jets from the U.S., from South Korea, so making it clear there will be military cooperation when North Korea carries out these sorts of tests.
 
With South Korean officials here, both the U.S. and South Korea here said they'd like to see more engagement from the Chinese on trying to get the North Koreans to step back, but so far all South Korea is saying is that China is waiting and watching. 
 
Oren Liebermann, CNN, in the Pentagon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Russia is fining Google an amount of money so outrageous you can't really pronounce it, let alone pay it. The tech firm apparently owes two undecillion rubles. That's a two followed by 36 zeros, or if you prefer, about 20 billion, trillion, trillion dollars.
 
Google's allegedly been blocking pro-Russian channels on YouTube, but a Russian court ordered the channels restored or penalties would double every week. Google hasn't commented specifically but referred to ongoing legal matters in Russia. A Kremlin spokesman said the fine was filled with symbolism.
 
A social media trend known as subway surfing turns deadly. After the break, we'll tell you how officials are trying to stop the fad before the next person dares to try it. 
 
And Sean Diddy Combs could face more charges. Just ahead, the latest on a federal grand jury investigating the music mogul.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: A social media trend known as subway surfing is encouraging teams to climb on top of moving subway cars, try to stand up and balance as they move forward. But in New York City, so far, six people have been killed trying this tragic trend. CNN's Brynn Gingras has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Its viral videos like this one showing teens on top of New York City subway cars so called surfing. That could lead to tragic consequences.
 
GINGRAS: That initial reaction, what was her thought hearing this happened to her daughter?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She didn't accept it. She was just felt that couldn't believe it.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over): The family of 13-year-old, Krystel Romero, too distraught to show their faces. The teen killed after slipping and falling between moving subway cars Sunday.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She spoke to her not doing it. Like -- like many times but she just --
 
GINGRAS: She tried to warn her.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know kids right now, like they just tell them something and they just don't care.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over): Romero's death marking the sixth from subway surfing this year, the second in just weeks.
 
GINGRAS: Tell me what's in your hand right there?
 
NORMA NAZARIO, SON DIED WHILE SUBWAY SURFING: This is Zackery's funeral card, which I don't want any mother to be holding this like I am right now.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over): It's been more than a year since Norma Nazario lost her son to subway surfing.
 
NAZARIO: He was introduced to TikTok and the challenge at the moment which it was subway surfing. Unfortunately, I didn't know. I wish I did.
 
GINGRAS: Why do you think he did that that day?
 
NAZARIO: Oh, the challenge. The social media likes. I can do it better.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over): City and state officials continue to comment the dangerous craze, with public service announcements by scrubbing videos from social media sites --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And everyone, I got it.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over): -- and now drones.
 
ERIC ADAMS, (D) NEW YORK CITY MAYOR: The drones is the game changer for really catching it in action.
 
GINGRAS (voice over): CNN got an exclusive look at how the technology helps. GINGRAS: People calling in and also the officers on the ground and also the drones.
 
KAZ DAUGHTRY, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF OPERATIONS, NYPD: Yes, yes. And also it's -- you should note that these kids are getting crafty. They'll have a black jacket on when they're doing subway surfing. As they descend to the actual train car.
 
GINGRAS: They're disguising themselves.
 
DAUGHTRY: So we already know who they're looking for.
 
GINGRAS (voice over): Once caught, the NYPD says the kids aren't arrested. Instead, their parents are shown police drone footage like this, hoping they'll be spooked enough to never do it again.
 
ADAMS: That rush of getting that like, like, like and views and that competition makes it even more and more dangerous. 
 
GINGRAS (voice-over): Meta tells CNN it removes videos that don't meet its guidelines, so does TikTok, which also puts up warnings like this one when searching for the videos. Still not enough for Nazario, who sued several social media sites in the wake of Zackery's death.
 
NAZARIO: They could give me a billion dollars and I don't care. Just bring me my son back.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over): Brynn Gingras, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
FOSTER: A federal grand jury meeting to investigate criminal charges against music mogul Sean Diddy Combs. That's according to three sources. On Thursday, jurors were expected to hear from a witness who claims to have videos that show Combs potentially victimizing celebrities. Combs has pleaded not guilty to federal charges of sex trafficking, racketeering and transportation to engage in prostitution. He denies all wrongdoing, including accusations in more than two dozen civil cases.
 
The rapper Young Thug is out of jail and will not serve any more time behind bars following his racketeering trial in Atlanta, Georgia. As part of a plea deal, he was sentenced to time served on Thursday. He pleaded guilty to some charges and no contest to others.
 
Young Thug's real name is Jeffrey Williams. He was accused of leading a violent street gang, which could have put him behind bars for the rest of his life. He ended up serving more than 900 days behind bars. He'll be on probation for 15 years. 
 
This small wooden box is a satellite or at least a prototype of one just ahead. What Japanese scientists plan for this combination of natural material and groundbreaking technology.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Apple's latest earnings are out as iPhone sales modestly beat analysts' expectations with the promise of new AI tools. That includes sales for the new iPhone 16. The tech giant's CEO, Tim Cook, said artificial intelligence updates would, quote, supercharge the new device when it was unveiled last month.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TIM COOK, CEO, APPLE: Earlier this week, we made the first set of Apple intelligence features available in U.S. English for iPhone, iPad and Mac users, with system-wide writing tools that help you refine your writing, a more natural and conversational Siri, a more intelligent Photos app. Including the ability to create movies simply by typing a description, and new ways to prioritize and stay in the moment with notification summaries and priority messages. 
 
And we look forward to additional intelligence features in December with even more powerful writing tools, a new visual intelligence experience that builds on Apple intelligence, and ChatGPT integration.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: iPhone sales topped $46 billion, up more than 5.5 percent from the same time last year. That's according to Apple's earnings report after the market closed. 
 
Frenchman Hugo Humbert claimed an upset win at home by knocking world number two Carlos Alcaraz out of the Paris Masters in the round of 16 on Thursday. Humbert started strong, breaking twice to go up five-lap in the first set, which he won in just 26 minutes. But Alcaraz struck back, claiming the only break and winning the second set. Humbert broke Alcaraz on match point in the third set to seal the stunning victory.
 
He'll face Australia's Jordan Thompson in the quarterfinals later today. 
 
And the U.S. Pro Football, the New York Jets ended their losing streak with a much-needed win over the Houston Texans last night. One standout highlight from the primetime showdown was star receiver Garrett Wilson's spectacular one-handed touchdown. The catch was in the third quarter. A final score, 21 to 13. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
Stories in the spotlight.
 
Hindus across India celebrating Diwali today. The festival of lights that sets cities aglow with color. The celebrations began on Thursday. Diwali is marked by lighting oil lamps, sparklers, firecrackers and fireworks. The vibrant holiday symbolizes the triumph of good over evil and the welcoming of a Hindu god after he defeated a powerful king. Lighting earthen candles signifies welcoming the Lord on his return after his 14-year exile. Now, a satellite is getting ready for a trip to outer space. That's
 
 usually not a big deal anymore, but this satellite is made of wood. It's the first time ever and a test by Japanese researchers to use timber in lunar Mars exploration is that first. It's scheduled to head to the International Space Station on a SpaceX mission next Tuesday. This first prototype is only palm size, but it could one day lead to full functioning technology.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAKAO DOI, PROFESSOR/FORMER ASTRONAUT (through translator): Up until now, no country has planned to use wood in space development. Using wood in space paves a way for humans to achieve sustainable and eternal development in space. And I want people around the world to know about such an approach.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Amazing. The wood used for the satellite is from a Japanese magnolia tree. It's easy to process and resists shattering. It'll stay in orbit for six months to test how the wood reacts to the extreme environment. 
 
James Bond movies are full of cars that played starring roles right alongside the actors, like this Rolls-Royce Phantom from Goldfinger.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE, MOVIE GOLDFINGER: Many people have tried to involve themselves in my affairs unsuccessfully.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Remarkable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Well, if you think that's remarkable, check out this new Rolls-Royce Phantom called Goldfinger. The company created the one of a kind modern vehicle to honor the classic movie's 60th anniversary. It took three years to complete for an anonymous client. The car is full of Bond worthy gadgets, most of them in gold. Plus extras are hidden like Easter eggs that only a diehard Bond fan could find. No word if you could get your hands on one or how much gold that would actually set you back.
 
Thanks for joining me here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster in London. CNN "THIS MORNING" is up next after the break.