Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: IDF Blames "Mistaken Identification" after Killing Aid Workers; U.S. Adds 303,000 Jobs in March, Beating Expectations; White House: Biden Demands Changes from Netanyahu; U.N. Chief Marks Six-Month Anniversary of Israel-Hamas War; U.N. Chief Makes Remarks on Israel-Hamas War. Aired 9- 9:45a ET

Aired April 05, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: It is 5 pm here in Abu Dhabi, I'm Eleni Giokos. This is "Connect the World". Happening this hour, the IDF 
 
 newly released report blames a case of mistaken identification for the strike that killed seven World Central Kitchen aid workers.
 
The aid group says the IDF cannot credibly investigate its own failures in Gaza, the fallout from that investigation and its findings. Plus, Israel 
 
 says it will allow more aid into Gaza after a tense phone call between President Biden and Benjamin Netanyahu. In Iran, the funerals take place 
 
 for the victims of an Israeli airstrike on its consulates in Damascus. And the countdown to the Olympic Games is on and making quite a splash.
 
All right, I will be checking in on how Wall Street will open in about half an hour from now as you can see the DOW futures pointing to a positive 
 
 start it says job numbers that everyone will be focusing on and of course how the Federal Reserve will ultimately respond. The big running theme is 
 
 what will happen to interest rates down the line.
 
Right now, just a short time ago, Israel's military released its internal reports on Monday's deadly strikes that killed seven aid workers in Gaza. 
 
 It says Israeli forces believed they were targeting Hamas operatives in the aid convoy. Israel says two military officers have been fired. And meantime 
 
 a spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces told CNN the unit that carried out the attack probably mistook a bag for a weapon.
 
World Central Kitchen, whose workers were killed, is calling for an independent investigation saying the IDF quote cannot credibly investigate 
 
 its own failure. Now, that report coming one day after a phone call between the leaders of the U.S. and Israel. The White House says President Biden 
 
 demanded Israel take specific steps to protect civilians and aid workers in Gaza warning that without those U.S. policies on the war could change.
 
Hours later then, Israel announced it would reopen its Erez crossing into Gaza to allow aid shipments into the Enclave. The U.S. Secretary of State 
 
 welcomed the move, but reiterated the position Mr. Biden had set out in Thursday's phone call.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: With regard to our policy in Gaza, look, I'll just say this, if we don't see the changes that we need to see, 
 
 there'll be changes in our own policy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: All right, let's break down all of these developments. We've got CNN's Paula Hancocks joining us in studio, Paula, great to see you. And 
 
 look, we've been waiting the entire week for this report from the IDF. And I just want to read what the IDF says in this report, the investigations 
 
 findings indicate that the incident should have occurred.
 
Those who approved the strike were convinced that they were targeting armed Hamas operatives and not WCK employees. So they're saying that shouldn't 
 
 have occurred. I want you to give me a sense of like, this whole notion of misidentification and of course, also revealing miscommunication as well.
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So what we've been hearing, Eleni, from the IDF, and this is an initial report, they say they're going to have a 
 
 wider investigation into this is that they believe that they saw an individual who was armed, who was part of an aid convoy on this truck, 
 
 which was going towards a warehouse, they then say they believe they saw a second gunman who was identified by their forces.
 
After that aid was deposited in that warehouse, they say they were separate cars, we now know those were the three cars with the aid workers in that 
 
 left the warehouse, and they assumed they were Hamas operatives in those cars. Now, we know obviously, that was not the case. And the report has 
 
 shown a catalogue of errors that have been made.
 
We've heard from an Israeli military spokesman saying that they couldn't identify they were World Central Kitchen cars because they couldn't see the 
 
 logo at night. They're now saying they're considering having thermo identification for these aid workers in the future. And as you say, also 
 
 now saying what they thought was a gun may well have been a bag.
 
So we've had an initial response from World Central Kitchen as well. In a statement they have said, quote, the IDF has acknowledged its 
 
 responsibility and its fatal errors in the deadly attack on our convoy in Gaza. It is also taking disciplinary action against those in command and 
 
 committed to other reforms. These are important steps forward.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
They go on to say we demand the creation of an independent commission to investigate the killings of our WCK colleagues. The IDF cannot credibly 
 
 investigate its own failure in Gaza. That is a sentiment that now is shared by the Biden Administration as well. Secretary of State Blinken saying this 
 
 investigation needs to be independent.
 
GIOKOS: And also publicized, right? So I mean, this is it's really interesting to see it playing out. One of the most remarkable things within 
 
 the report as well as the breakdown of communications that the drone operators went and formed about WCK movements, that they were going to be 
 
 moving at night as well.
 
So it clearly it shows that there was sort of some kind of lapse in the standard operating procedures that the IDF normally take.
 
HANCOCKS: Exactly. I mean, this one quotes stands out to me. The IDF says it's a grave mistake stemming from a serious failure due to a mistaken 
 
 identification, errors and decision making. And an attack, contrary to the standard operating procedures is a little litany of errors that were made 
 
 within this, itself.
 
And this is what World Central Kitchen has been saying that they gave the coordinates to the IDF. This had been cleared and coordinated with the IDF 
 
 and this should simply not have happened. But it's not on its own. This is not an individual case that has happened.
 
We heard from Medecins Sans Frontieres Doctors without Borders as well saying that this is part of a pattern when it comes to what MSF calls 
 
 deliberate attacks on humanitarians, health workers, journalists, U.N. personnel, schools and homes. And they go on to say, this pattern is either 
 
 intentional or indicative of reckless incompetence. So this attack does not stand, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: I mean, it's startling, almost 200 aid workers have been killed in this war and making it one of the deadliest wars, frankly for aid workers. 
 
 And speaking of aid and you know this very serious conversation between Biden and Netanyahu, we've seen the public frustration that President Biden 
 
 has shed calling it you know, that he was outraged, essentially.
 
And also putting, you know, very strict measures that Israel needs to abide by, and that being aid. Now, crossings Erez, Ashdod ports, as well as Kerem 
 
 Shalom will be opened as well and that announcement coming straight after the phone call with President Biden. How is this going to work in the next 
 
 few days?
 
HANCOCKS: This is something that's been called for months by leaders, by humanitarian aid groups saying that aid coming from the air, coming from 
 
 the sea cannot compensate or even get anywhere close to what comes through these land crossings. So they have consistently called for another land 
 
 crossing to be opened that is now going to happen. So that's Erez crossing, which is, primarily a passenger crossing. It is how we get into Gaza 
 
 usually you walk through.
 
GIOKOS: And you've been there personally --
 
HANCOCKS: So yes, but it also does have the ability to drive through on the side as well. So it does have the ability for these trucks to be able to 
 
 get in what it does mean, and the U.N. has said that they see this positively, they want to see how it's implemented. But they see this 
 
 positively, because it means you can get to Northern Gaza very quickly.
 
This crossing is at the northern part of Gaza. And that is where the U.N. is saying that half of the population is on the brink of famine. This is 
 
 where the greatest humanitarian crisis is at this point. But it does raise the question of hours after this, effectively an ultimatum given by the 
 
 United States that Israel is able to get it through the security cabinet that Erez crossing will be open. Why was that not possible many months 
 
 before when humanitarian aid groups were calling for it?
 
GIOKOS: Now it's, I mean, again, more questions than we're getting answers, essentially. Could you also give me a sense of the international response 
 
 to WCK? And how that has sort of galvanized the conversation around Israel's disproportionate many people say, you know, war against Hamas in 
 
 terms of what it's resulted on the ground itself?
 
HANCOCKS: Well, what we heard actually, interestingly from Secretary of State, Blinken was specifically talking about the WCK attack. But this is 
 
 not the first time that Israel has killed humanitarian aid workers, but he does say, quote, it must be the last. So this almost feels like a moment 
 
 where all the anger or the frustration or the criticisms towards Israel from previous attacks or restrictions against humanitarian aid workers have 
 
 come together.
 
And everybody appears to be speaking with one voice, including the Biden Administration, who in the past has always held back somewhat and has not 
 
 been as vocally critical of Israel as many other countries in the humanitarian aid groups. But it does seem as though this has come to a head 
 
 now.
 
And of course, the question is, and this is what the U.N. said when they said they were positive about this move of Erez crossing being opened. They 
 
 want to see, how it's implemented? When will it be open?
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
GIOKOS: And even the Biden Administration by the way said we're going to see what Israel does what it says what it does and then we'll assess down 
 
 the line. Paula Hancocks, great to have you with us thank you so much for that analysis. Let's stay across this. We've got CNN's Arlette Saenz, 
 
 following reaction from the White House for us.
 
Arlette, great to have you with us, in addition to Mr. Biden relaying his frustration, which has, of course he's been very vocal and publicly so. 
 
 Secretary Blinken calling for an independent investigation over and above what we've just seen coming through from Israel.
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Eleni. Those comments really are quite notable. It's a slight shift in the language that the 
 
 Secretary of State has used in the past. He's called for a swift and impartial investigation. But overnight in Brussels speaking before 
 
 reporters, he did say that the U.S. wants to see an independent investigation that is fully publicized.
 
Now officials here at the White House are still reading through this initial report from the Israelis outlining the mistakes that were made that 
 
 led to the deaths of the killings of these seven aid workers with World Central Kitchen. The White House so far is not offering any comments saying 
 
 that they want to reserve judgment until they're able to read through this report.
 
But we have heard from President Biden and statements, who has said that he wants to make sure that there is accountability for their actions. But this 
 
 new report coming out this morning also comes on the heels of a very blunt conversation between the president and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin 
 
 Netanyahu.
 
The president lay out in stark terms what he wants to see Israel do. A warning that if more is not done to protect civilian, protect humanitarian 
 
 aid workers, that Israel would face consequences. This really marks a significant shift and the starkest warning Biden has issued to Netanyahu 
 
 throughout this entire conflict.
 
He did not outline and officials haven't said what changes in policy could be made. But it is a one step closer to some of those calls from Democrats 
 
 and others to begin conditioning aid to Israel if they do not make changes to their approach in Gaza. Now, the president said that he wants to see 
 
 more humanitarian aid protections.
 
One thing senior officials said that the two leaders agreed on was the need to try to figure out ways to better relay information about where aid 
 
 workers are working to distribute aid. The president also said he wants to see more crossings, more ports open to get that assistance into Israel, we 
 
 saw some action.
 
Or into Gaza, we saw some action on that front in the hours after that phone call is Israel approved the opening of Erez crossing in northern 
 
 Gaza, as well as a port and other crossings as well. But earlier today, Secretary of State Antony Blinken also said that the real test will be in 
 
 how this is all implemented. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLINKEN: These are positive developments. But the real test is results. And that's what we're looking to see in the coming days and in the coming 
 
 weeks. Is the aid effectively reaching people who needed throughout Gaza?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAENZ: So the administration hopeful amid these initial steps, but waiting to see how it actually is enacted. But the president has been quite clear 
 
 with Netanyahu that things need to change in their operations when it comes to civilians, humanitarian assistance, or else they will face consequences 
 
 from the U.S.
 
GIOKOS: Yeah, and look, to be honest, I mean, Antony Blinken says, you know, we'll be assessing in the coming days and coming weeks, no direct 
 
 timeline, but interesting choice of words. Arlette Saenz, great to have you with us thank you. Well, U.S. CIA Director William Burns is heading to 
 
 Egypt this weekend for the next round of talks in the crisis.
 
He'll be joined by the heads of Israel's intelligence agencies. Qatar has been mediating talks aimed at reaching a temporary ceasefire and securing 
 
 the release of some hostages held by Hamas. Today, a diplomatic source told CNN a deal is not close. Iranians are turning out by the thousands in 
 
 Tehran, as a funeral procession is held for the military officials killed Monday in that Israeli airstrike in Damascus.
 
These funeral events are coinciding with the annual Quds Day observance. It was established in 1979 shortly after the Islamic Revolution Founder 
 
 Ayatollah Khomeini called for Muslims worldwide to take part in events denouncing Israel and showing support for the Palestinian cause.
 
Later this hour, I'll be speaking with Middle East Scholar Vali Nasr about ever higher tensions between Iran and Israel and the growing threat it 
 
 poses to the region is armed conflict inevitable we'll be tackling that question later. Now coming up, the U.S. added plenty of jobs in March but 
 
 how will the markets respond? We'll catch up on that story in just a bit.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
GIOKOS: The U.S. economy added 303,000 jobs in March well above the 200,000 that most economists expected the unemployment rate dropped slightly to 3.8 
 
 percent. So how will investors react when markets open in a few minutes from now? Now the DOW sank more than 1 percent on Thursday over concerns 
 
 interest rate cuts might not happen as soon as expected.
 
I want to bring in Matt Egan who's been following this for us from New York. 303,000 jobs, non-farm payrolls in March, much better than the market 
 
 had anticipated. Now, when it comes to how the Fed is going to respond to many jobs added is a problem, too little jobs, of course, is an issue as 
 
 well. Where's the middle ground, Matt?
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Yeah, Eleni. I think the Fed was looking for a Goldilocks number. And this is not Goldilocks, right? This is hot. 303,000 
 
 jobs added 50 percent more than the consensus. The unemployment rate, as you mentioned, ticking down to 3.8 percent. This is just another reminder 
 
 that this jobs market is resilient.
 
And it's so much more resilient than people thought. Both on a short term basis, where hiring has consistently come in hotter and hotter than 
 
 expected, but also obviously on a longer term basis because a lot of economists have been penciling in a recession around now, or at least a 
 
 near recession.
 
And we're nowhere near a recession. If anything, the jobs market appears to be heating up which to your point could raise some concerns from the 
 
 perspective of the Fed. Now, the Fed had been talking about cutting interest rates three times this year. Investors had been pricing in a rate 
 
 cut as soon as June.
 
And I think the initial reaction from economist is that this caused those rate cuts into question, because this does not look like a jobs market that 
 
 means interest rate cuts. I mean, the unemployment rate is now below 4 percent for 26 consecutive months. Look at that left side of the screen you 
 
 can see how the unemployment rates spiked during COVID up to almost 15 percent.
 
It's come all the way down. But what's most surprising is that it really hasn't budged from those historically low levels --
 
GIOKOS: Matt, I'm just going to take our audience now to the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who's speaking right now. Let's listen.
 
BLINKEN: -- in the days to come. It's very important that Israel is taking full responsibility for this incident. It's also important that it appears 
 
 to be taking steps to hold those responsible, accountable even more important, is making sure that steps are taking going forward to ensure 
 
 that something like this can never happen again.
 
Prime Minister Netanyahu indicated to President Biden that Israel would be making further changes to his procedures to make sure that those who are 
 
 providing assistance to people who so desperately needed in Gaza are protected. So we're going to be looking very carefully at what those steps 
 
 are?
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
How it achieves better de-confliction, better coordination so that aid workers are protected. Same time as Israel pursues any military operations 
 
 against Hamas it has to prioritize the protection of civilians. It has to make that job, number one. Too many people have been caught in this 
 
 crossfire of Hamas is making children, women, men losing their lives.
 
Their safety has to be a priority and military operations need to be designed around their protection, not the other way around. So we'll be 
 
 looking at all of this in the days to come. And we'll be as I said, assessing fully the report on the World Central Kitchen incident and 
 
 looking to see not just what steps are being taken, but the results that follow from. Thanks.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, everyone.
 
GIOKOS: All right. That is Secretary of State there Antony Blinken, speaking in Brussels on the sidelines of that NATO meeting. I've got Paula 
 
 Hancocks with me to break down some of what he said, you know, Antony Blinken was talking about, it's good that Israel is taking full 
 
 responsibility, they've got to ensure that something like this never happens again.
 
But importantly, he really reiterated like, we're going to be looking at the steps that are taken, and the results. And we'll be assessing this in 
 
 the next few days as well and prioritizing the protection of civilians and aid workers. So this is a very different stance that we've been hearing 
 
 from the U.S. for, you know, since the start of the war, essentially.
 
HANCOCKS: Well, what we're hearing here is that would results, they're going to be looking at the results. So it's not just the U.S. saying to 
 
 Israel, you need to protect civilians, because this has been said before, but he has said that the Israeli military has to prioritize the safety of 
 
 civilians.
 
He said that is number one, also saying that the too many of them have been caught in the crossfire. But what he's specifying is that they want to see 
 
 what the results of Israel's measures are. So it's not just what Israel says it will do, not just what it does, but to see how that can impact 
 
 what's happening on the ground.
 
We have heard consistently from the Biden Administration, that the too many civilians have been impacted, too many have been killed. And so I think 
 
 what the Biden Administration is doing now, and he said it will be over the next few days is looking for tangible results, significant changes in what 
 
 Israel is doing on the ground.
 
GIOKOS: Yeah. I mean, he specifically said how to achieve de-confliction, you know, the steps that will be taken to achieve de-confliction, which is 
 
 really interesting. This is I mean we know that the frustration from the Biden Administration side of things have been has really been bubbling up 
 
 for the last few weeks as well.
 
But this was particularly event with WCK and the death of seven aid workers has been really a turning point, it feels in the way that the U.S. is sort 
 
 of, you know, dealing with Israel and the rhetoric around, you know, how the U.S. perceives this war is playing out, essentially.
 
HANCOCKS: It definitely feels like things have come to a head for the Biden Administration. I mean, on the other side, there's also criticism of the 
 
 Biden Administration that, you know, potentially more than 32,000 Palestinians have been killed in what has happened so far.
 
And there have been close to 200 humanitarian aid workers who have been killed, as well, that according to United Nations figures. But certainly 
 
 we're seeing that this particular event has become potentially a turning point, but certainly has brought the frustrations and the anger to a head 
 
 from the U.S. President using the word outraged.
 
I mean, that's not a word that the administration uses lightly. So I think certainly there has been a change, especially when you consider that phone 
 
 call, just hours after that phone call took place between the U.S. and the Israeli leader. All of a sudden one of the key crossings from Israel into 
 
 Gaza, into Northern Gaza was approved, it was going to be opened and that is very significant.
 
GIOKOS: It's very telling, right? It's quite telling in terms of when you apply pressure on Israel, what you can see in terms of the aid funds. And 
 
 then Antony Blinken also saying they're going to be assessing that WCK report, which is interesting. Antony Blinken, also saying that he's 
 
 calling, the U.S. is calling for an independent investigation around that.
 
Paula Hancocks, great to have you with us, thank you so much. Now, as anger builds in Iran over the airstrike on its consulates in Damascus. Protesters 
 
 take to the streets of Tehran chanting death to Israel. I'll be speaking with Middle East Experts and Foreign Policy Advisor Vali Nasr about the 
 
 growing threat. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back. I'm Eleni Giokos in Abu Dhabi and you're watching "Connect the World". Here are your headlines this hour the IDF has released 
 
 an initial report on its deadly strikes that killed seven World Central Kitchen aid workers in Gaza on Monday. An internal investigation found 
 
 Israeli forces believed they were targeting Hamas operatives in the vehicles in the aid convoy.
 
Israel has now fired two military personnel. The report comes after a phone call between the U.S. President and the Israeli Prime Minister on Thursday. 
 
 The White House says Mr. Biden demanded specific concrete measurable steps from Israel to protect civilians and aid workers in Gaza and threatened 
 
 consequences if Israel fails to act.
 
And in Tehran today, throngs of people taking part in a funeral procession honoring victims of an Israeli airstrike on Iran's consulates in Damascus. 
 
 Now it coincides with a rally for Quds Day. It's an annual event held in Iran to denounce Israel and show support for the Palestinian cause.
 
Today, the commander of Iran's Revolutionary Guard is also vowing to retaliate for the Damascus hit. And many people in the Middle East and the 
 
 experts are saying it's no longer a question of if but rather when, although the Israeli military has not admitted carrying out the attack.
 
Both Tehran and Damascus are blaming Israel with Iran warning of a quote serious response. Israel's military has canceled leave for its combat units 
 
 and on Thursday jam GPS services in Israel saying it wants to neutralize any potential threats. Middle East Scholar Vali Nasr joins us now live.
 
He is a professor at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University and joins us now. Sir, great to have you with us thank 
 
 you so much for joining us today. You know, we mentioned Quds Day today it was actually, you know, created in 1979 by Iran's first supreme leader.
 
I think 45 years later, it's truly morphed into something beyond Iran's borders. It's for the Palestinian cause. We're on the cusp of the six month 
 
 war essentially on Sunday. We've got the funeral procession that is going on. What are you reading into the significance of Quds Day today in 
 
 particular, with all the threads coming through from Iran as well?
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
VALI NASR, PROFESSOR AT JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY: As you mentioned, it is quite significant. This year because of the Gaza war and because the Gaza 
 
 war was termed when it was launched by Hamas as the thunder of Al-Aqsa named after the holy site in Jerusalem. So even before the Damascus 
 
 attacks, the sense was that the old state would be a day in order to rally the public in Iran.
 
Around what's happening in the Gaza war, around the Palestinian issue to display Iran support for the Palestinians. But also much more broadly, to 
 
 cast this notion that we are at the moment of truth, if you would, with the Palestinian issue, that something that Iran has claimed to be fighting for 
 
 45 years has dedicated itself to is now reaching a sort of moment of truth with what's going on in Gaza.
 
And so that was the greatest significance as we went into this state, but to it was added the fact that it's now called coinciding with the funeral 
 
 or those generals that were killed in the Damascus attack.
 
GIOKOS: Well, let's talk about this funeral. You know, we saw Supreme Leader Khamenei praying at the caskets, which was quite a show of force, 
 
 essentially, you know, showing, you know, how it impacted Iran, but also vying retaliation in the same breath as well. We just don't know when that 
 
 will happen and it's not a question of if, as we've said.
 
Give me a sense of how important it is for Iran to show its aggression, its retaliation to the world. But you know, I guess they know that it has to be 
 
 measured, because they don't want a full out confrontation.
 
NASR: Well, first of all, the funeral I'm putting it on this particular day, also has a message to say that Iran is given blood for this war, that 
 
 it obviously Israel attacked Iran at this point in time because of Iran's importance to Hamas and Hezbollah and the war. And therefore, it is a way 
 
 of saying to the broader Arab world and the region that we are also sacrificing for this war.
 
Yes, the talk of retaliation will be there, and particularly the Iranians are don't want Israel to believe that it can attack Iran with impunity in 
 
 its diplomatic compounds at anytime, anywhere that it wants. And they don't want to see a larger attack coming. But I think they are also very 
 
 conscious that Israel is on the back heel right now internationally because of what's happening in Gaza, because of the World Central Kitchen issue.
 
That is relationship with the United States is fraught right now. That also domestically, Prime Minister Netanyahu is under a lot of threat, because of 
 
 the public protests that have been happening, and that Israel may favor shifting attention from Gaza to a war with Iran and Hezbollah in Syria and 
 
 Lebanon.
 
And Iran and its ally Hezbollah don't want to play to Prime Minister Netanyahu's tune. They're not keen on retaliating immediately, I believe, 
 
 because they don't want to essentially change the narrative from Gaza onto themselves. So that I think they're going to wait, they're going to ponder.
 
They're going to pick a reaction that is in a way is it deterrence against further Israeli reaction, but not something that is going to shift world 
 
 attention from the stories about humanitarian issues --
 
GIOKOS: Yeah, Vali, the U.N. Secretary General is speaking right now Antonio Guterres, we're going to listen in and please stay with us. We'd 
 
 like to keep you for analysis afterwards. Let's listen.
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY-GENERAL: -- justify the collective punishment of the Palestinian people. I'm also deeply troubled 
 
 by reports that the Israeli military's bombing campaign includes artificial intelligence as a tool in the identification of targets, particularly in 
 
 densely populated residential areas, resulting in a high level of civilian casualties.
 
No part of life and death decisions which impact entire families should be delegated to the cold calculation of algorithms. I've warned for many years 
 
 of the dangers of weaponization artificial intelligence, and reducing the essential role of human agency. AI should be used as a force for good to 
 
 benefit the worlds, not to contribute to waging war on an industrial level, blurring accountability.
 
In its speeds, scale and inhumane ferocity, the war in Gaza is the deadliest of conflicts for civilians, for aid workers, for journalists, for 
 
 health workers, and for our own colleagues. Some 196 humanitarian aid workers, including more than 175 members of our own U.N. staff have been 
 
 killed.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
The vast majority were serving UNRWA, the backbone of all relief efforts in Gaza. Others include colleagues from the World Health Organization, World 
 
 Food Program, as well as humanitarians from Doctors without Borders, the Red Crescent, and just a few days ago, World Central Kitchen.
 
And information war is added to the trauma, obscuring facts and shifting blame. Denying international journalist entry into Gaza is allowing this 
 
 information and false narratives to flourish. We honor all humanitarian workers who have been killed in this conflict, and pledged to remember 
 
 their commitment and sacrifice.
 
Following this week's appalling killing of seven humanitarian workers from World Central Kitchen, the Israeli government has acknowledged mistakes and 
 
 announced some disciplinary measures. But the essential problem is not who made the mistakes. It is the military strategy and procedures in place that 
 
 allow for those mistakes to multiply time and time again.
 
Fixing those failures requires independent investigations and meaningful and measurable changes on the ground. In the aftermath of this tragedy, the 
 
 United Nations was also informed by the Israeli government of its intention to allow a substantial increase in humanitarian aid distributed in Gaza.
 
I sincerely hope that these announced intentions are effectively and quickly materialized, because the situation in Gaza is absolutely 
 
 desperate. Dramatic humanitarian conditions require quantum leaps in the delivery of life saving aid, a true paradigm shifts. I repeat my urgent 
 
 appeals for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages, the protection of civilians, and the unimpeded delivery of 
 
 humanitarian aid.
 
Last week, the Security Council called for just that. And in December, the council demanded accelerating the delivery of life saving aid under a U.N. 
 
 mechanism. All these demands must be implemented, failure would be unforgivable. Six months on, we are at the brink of mass starvation of 
 
 regional conflagration of a total loss of face in global standards and norms.
 
It is time to step back from the brink to silence the guns to ease the horrible suffering and to stop the potential famine before it is too late. 
 
 Thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you, Mr. Secretary General you've said there should be an independent investigation. What can the United Nations do to 
 
 promote such an investigation?
 
GUTERRES: Well, it is obviously for the government of Israel to accept the possibility of that independent investigation, because the investigation 
 
 can only work with the cooperation of the Israeli authorities. But as I said, the question is not these only specific incidents, when 196 
 
 humanitarian workers have been killed, and we want to know why each one of them was killed.
 
GABRIEL ELIZONDO, AL JAZEERA ENGLISH: Thank you, Mr. Secretary General Gabriel Elizondo from Al Jazeera English. Sir, the Israeli government 
 
 seemed to indicate that they would only open the Erez crossing temporarily. Are you satisfied with that?
 
GUTERRES: We don't know yet what kind of measures will be announced entirely. It is obvious that as I said, it's not enough to have scattered 
 
 measures. We need a paradigm shift. We will see if it comes. And after that, we will pronounce ourselves.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you Talal Al-Haj from Al-Arabiya. Mr. Secretary General, we have been grown accustomed to straight talk, without fear of 
 
 favor in this United Nation of Antonio Guterres. On the 25th of March, when 2728 was endorsed by the council with the abstention of the United States, 
 
 we heard statements from high officials in the United States including the National Security Council in the White House.
 
That's this resolution is non-binding resolution. This really concerned thousands and I say millions of people in my region. Can you put the matter 
 
 to Chile and please clarify to us whether the Security Council resolutions are binding or non-binding?
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
And another point, quickly, today Israel has fire to low level officers and reprimanded some high officers for the bombing of the World Central 
 
 Kitchen. Is that enough?
 
GUTERRES: Well, first of all, the Secretary General is guided by the charter. And the charter is clear in Article 25, please read Article 25. 
 
 And you will be perfectly aware of the nature of the resolutions of the Security Council. And the second, as I said, the question is not only to 
 
 know if some mistakes were committed and who committed them.
 
The question is the system that allows those mistakes to happen time and time again. And it is the change of that system that is required, which 
 
 implies a change in the strategy and the procedures that the military are using in Gaza.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you very much.
 
GUTERRES: Thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Secretary General --
 
GIOKOS: All right, there, Antonio Guterres, the Secretary General of the United Nations speaking. Just as we received not too long ago, the report 
 
 from Israel on the death of the WCK aid workers killed in that strike earlier this week. The U.N. Chief says that October 7 was a day of pain for 
 
 Israel and the world and nothing can justify the horror unleashed by Hamas.
 
But also says Israeli military campaign of a past six months is -- relentless death destruction to Palestinians in Gaza. He asked the 
 
 question, you know, 196 aid workers have been killed in Gaza thus far since the start of the war and he wants to know why each of them were killed.
 
He spoke quite extensively about the system, the military strategy that is in place that's resulting in the civilian casualties. And also 
 
 interestingly, he made mention of artificial intelligence systems being used for targets. It's something we covered yesterday 972 Magazine had 
 
 revealed that Israel could be using a system called Lavender.
 
And the Secretary General they called it a cold calculation of algorithms that essentially results in civilian deaths. So he wants to look into that 
 
 closely. He's also welcoming the accountability that Israel has taken about WCK but requires more efforts and of course, more aid into Gaza.
 
There'll be working on the new entry points as well to try and get more aid in as quickly as possible. All right, we're going to a very short break. 
 
 I'll be right back after this, stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END