Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Today: Hearings On Trump Gag Order & Special Counsel; Tree Of Life Synagogue Memorial & Museum Breaks Ground; Climate Protesters Disrupt End Of PGA Tour Event. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired June 24, 2024 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Set of arguments. Certainly, the special counsel is arguing that Donald Trump should be put under new restrictions as part of his release for these charges that he's cases here in the Southern District of Florida. They say that he should have a gag order and that it should be put into the terms of his probation release -- or from the probation office.
 
And that's what the former president is pushing back on. They say that this is an attack on his First Amendment rights. And of course, bringing up the fact that he is not only -- not only campaigning, but going on a debate stage later this week. The former president is beating on the CNN debate against Joe Biden.
 
The special counsel cited a number of things in their arguments, though. They pointed out that shortly after the Mar-a-Lago search, back in 2022, an armed man attacked an FBI field office in Cincinnati. And then they said more recently, another Trump supporter, they said, made threats against the FBI.
 
Threatening to slaughter their families. Hunting them down. And they said that while the former president acknowledges the impact of his words on his supporters, he takes always no responsibility for the impact of that rhetoric, which of course, you know, Jim, he has been doing a lot of lately.
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: Absolutely. And based on what we know about Judge Aileen Cannon and the way she has been ruling so far, how likely is it for her to give a -- to hand down a gag order in this?
 
PEREZ: I don't know. I think -- I think the odds are against it. Because in part she has given the former president a lot of deference. Pointing out not only the fact that he served as president but also is a presidential candidate, is the leading candidate, obviously for the Republicans that are -- expected nominee for the Republican Party.
 
So, look, she is -- been very slowly making rulings. And so that one, after the -- after the gag order finally -- hearing this afternoon, we expect that she's going to take a few days before we actually hear from her. And we don't anticipate that the special counsel will get certainly all of - or even most of what they want from her.
 
ACOSTA: All right. Evan Perez live in Florida for us. Evan, thanks so much.
 
And we're now just three days away from CNN's primetime presidential debate between President Biden and Former President Donald Trump. Thursday's showdown will be the earliest presidential debate in modern history, maybe in all of U.S. history, and the stakes are undeniably high. Much of the national polling shows they are locked in a race that is too close to call. So how are the campaigns spending these final days before the debate?
 
Join me now are CNN's Alayna Treene and Kevin Liptak. And, Kevin, you have some new reporting on how the president is preparing for Trump. He's preparing for all versions of Trump.
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes.
 
ACOSTA: Not just the one we see out on the campaign for now.
 
LIPTAK: Yes. Because this -- the thing with Trump -- 
 
ACOSTA: Yes.
 
LIPTAK: You never know when you get on the debate stage, which version of Trump you're going to get. Is it the pugilistic, interrupting, yelling Donald Trump or is it a more restrained, more presidential version of the candidate that you're going to get? And what we've been hearing from Biden's advisors is that they're preparing for both.
 
You know, President Biden's up at Camp David. He's going to eventually do these mock debates. And they basically want to be ready for whatever Trump shows up at the debate stage.
 
So, today is day four. President Biden has been up there for a while already. We don't actually expect to see him before he shows up in Atlanta on Thursday.
 
You know, I don't think it's any secret why the Biden campaign is preparing so intensively for this debate. They think the stakes are very high. But they're also aware that they can't afford an underwhelming performance.
 
They know that any kind of, you know, mental slip, verbal slip is only going to be amplified underneath those lights on the debate stage. And that is why I think they've -- they're putting so much work into this preparation. And we did get sort of an insight in this memo that we got over the weekend into the three points that President Biden is going to want to emphasize.
 
One is abortion. And this has been the most galvanizing issue for Democrats throughout this election. And they do really want to lay the overturning of Roe v. Wade right at Donald Trump's feet.
 
You know, there's the issue of democracy and protecting democracy. That's obviously been the underpinning of the entire Biden campaign so far. So certainly, Biden's going to hammer away at that.
 
And then the third is the economy, which in a way is the most risky one for President Biden. He is vulnerable on this issue, despite the economy doing pretty well. A lot of Americans say that they just aren't feeling it. And his strategy is going to be to try and make the point that Trump's economic plans would only benefit the rich.
 
So, you can bet that out there at Camp David, President Biden is hammering away trying to sharpen his points, specifically on these three issues. But certainly, in anticipation of what he's going to face on the debate stage.
 
ACOSTA: Yes. And you have to expect that Trump is going to go after Biden on the economy. We see -- I mean, we play the Trump clips all the time. But he is doing that quite a bit out on the campaign trail.
 
And, Alayna, take us into how Trump is preparing or not really preparing, being out on the campaign trail and giving speeches instead.
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Well, that's what his team is trying to portray, that he's doing.
 
ACOSTA: Yes.
 
TREENE: They're trying to argue that he does not need as much preparation as Joe Biden. However, what I found really fascinating about the last week or so is we've really seen Donald Trump's team, sure they are doing the -- what they're calling policy discussions behind the scenes. But it's essentially debate prep with Donald Trump.
 <br>[11:35:05]
 
It won't include mock debates. But he is working through with VP contenders, senators, and former administration officials how to sharpen his language on certain rhetoric, including all of the points that Kevin laid out about talking about the economy and abortion and American democracy. However, what they've really been focusing on the last couple of days is managing expectations.
 
ACOSTA: Yes.
 
TREENE: And this is something that is a bit hypocritical because, you know, right now we're seeing a lot of Donald Trump's surrogates, and his advisers go on the airwaves saying a couple of things. One, that they think -- you know, trying to take it out on CNN and refs and saying mainstream media is setting the expectations too low. But also, we know that for months now, Donald Trump and his team have argued that Joe Biden is essentially senile.
 
They're acting like -- or they've said that he struggles with mental and physical acuity. They've tried to point out that maybe he can't even stand on stage for 90 minutes. Now, they were trying to change the narrative.
 
They're trying to argue that Joe Biden is a worthy debater, exact words Donald Trump used in a podcast interview last week. We're seeing others say that he's potentially taking performance-enhancing drugs. Things that have -- are you know baseless accusations. All of these things are I think, setting in because there is a little bit more panic, I think going on in Trump world about Joe Biden having a week-long boot camp to prepare for this. And so, they are trying to manage expectations and raise a bar that they initially, themselves have set very low.
 
ACOSTA: Yes. I mean, Kevin, are they at all addressing this jacked-up that we've gone from sleepy Joe to jacked-up Joe it seems?
 
LIPTAK: Yes. I mean, I don't think they're going to dignify that kind of rhetoric with a response necessarily. But certainly, I think that they are aware that Biden has had really good performances. And I think of the State of the Union.
 
But he's also had milder, quieter performances on an everyday basis at some of his you know, policy stops. So, there are two Joe Biden's that we have seen over the course of you know, the last several months. They are very much hoping that this is the State of the Union Joe Biden, who is you know, energetic. But certainly, there's no evidence and I don't think the White House is going to dignify the allegations that he's going to be dragged up on the debate stage with a response.
 
ACOSTA: All right, very good. Alayna and Kevin, guys, thank you very much.
 
Just a reminder, we are just three days away from the first presidential debate of the year hosted by CNN. Don't miss President Biden and former President Trump going head-to-head on Thursday, June 27 at 9:00 p.m. Eastern right here on CNN. And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:42:09]
 
ACOSTA: Nearly six years after a synagogue attack during Shabbat services took 11 lives, a groundbreaking for Memorial and a museum at the Tree of Life. Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, who is Jewish, was also there. And our very own Wolf Blitzer was there as well to honor the victims of the mass shooting and to explain how that attack profoundly impacted him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Today, we break ground on a new path to peace. The new Tree of Life will not only be a tribute to those we lost at home for the Pittsburgh Jewish community for generations to come. It will also be a place to teach and share profoundly important lessons against hate.
 
Over the years, I have gone back to Poland to visit Auschwitz and see the concentration camps for myself. And each time I go, I am struck by the young people there from around the world learning about the impact that hate can have on our society. They are profoundly moved by what they see and hear. And they come away understanding that how we treat other people can have an enormous impact on our collective society. That is certainly what the future of Tree of Life will look like. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: And you can see Wolf's very important report from Pittsburgh tonight at 6:00 p.m. right on "THE SITUATION ROOM WITH WOLF BLITZER." Please stay tuned for that.
 
In the meantime, a Texas woman is accused of trying to drown a 3-year- old girl in a possible hate crime because the child is Muslim. Elizabeth Wolf is charged with attempted capital murder. Police say it happened at an apartment complex, in a pool outside of Dallas last month.
 
And CNN's Rosa Flores joins us now. Rosa, this is a very disturbing incident. What can you tell us?
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, we're learning more about the intense moments in which this mother tried to save her 3-year-old daughter. But let me get you up to speed here because this occurred in Euless, Texas. It's a city that's between Dallas and Fort Worth.
 
And according to the Euless Police Department, they've identified the suspect as Elizabeth Wolf. She's a 42-year-old woman. And she was charged with attempted capital murder and injury to a child.
 
We have tried to find her attorney and we have not been successful. Now, according to CAIR, A Muslim mom and her two children were by the pool at an apartment complex. They were enjoying the day when all of a sudden, Wolf, this -- the suspect, this 42-year-old woman approached the mother and her children with threatening and racist remarks.
 
The police responded to the scene. They interviewed witnesses. And they say that Wolf was intoxicated and then tried to drown the 3-year- old child.
 
Here's what police had to say in a news release. "The mother began helping her son when Wolf grabbed her 3-year-old daughter and forced her underwater. The mother was able to pull her daughter from the water. Her daughter had been yelling for help and was coughing up water."
 <br>[11:45:06]
 
The Texas chapter of CAIR is asking state and federal authorities to investigate this as a hate crime. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUSTAFAA CARROLL, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, CAIR-TEXAS: According to the mother, the 6-year-old son was able to escape, but her petite 3-year- old daughter was unable. The alleged attacker snatched off the mother's head scarf and used it to beat the mother with as well as kicking her to keep her away from forcing her child he had underwater.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FLORES: According to the Euless Police Department, paramedics also responded. They evaluated both children. And both children are OK.
 
But, Jim, the backdrop of this story is rising hate in the United States and a rising number of attacks against both Muslims and Jews. Jim?
 
ACOSTA: Absolutely. It's a huge problem. It's rising in this country, and law enforcement is warning that it's really getting out of control. Rosa Flores, thank you very much for that report.
 
Also, this morning. The ship that crashed into the iconic Key Bridge is finally leaving Baltimore. The Dali passed by the wrecked bridge as it heads to Norfolk, Virginia for repairs. The Coast Guard says there's now a 500-yard safety zone in place around the ship.
 
The Dali had been struck for two months -- or had been stuck I should say, for two months while workers removed the tangled frame of the bridge and refloated the ship's bow. Six construction workers were killed when the bridge came down. Investigators are still looking into the cause of that crash.
 
In California, a three-hour hike turned into a battle for survival for a man who got lost in the rugged Santa Cruz Mountains. He was stranded in the wilderness for 10 days before finally being rescued.
 
CNN's Veronica Miracle joins me now with the latest on this. Veronica, how did you survive?
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Jim, it's just an incredible story. He actually used his boot to drink a gallon of water every single day from nearby rivers and streams that he found as he was lost. Certainly, not ideal. But when you're trying to survive, I think anything will do.
 
He actually went out for a three-hour hike, as you mentioned. That turned into him getting lost for 10 days because some of the major landmarks on that hike were damaged by wildfire. His family actually called in a missing persons report after he didn't show up for a Father's Day dinner.
 
So, he's out there on his own. He's trying to survive. He has no food or water, and -- he will have limited water as he's getting it from nearby rivers and streams. He has no food, he's losing his energy, and then a mountain lion starts to follow him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LUKAS MCCLISH, RESCUED HIKER: So, I kind of just hike. Each day I go up a canyon, down a canyon to the next waterfall, and sit down with a waterfall and drink water out of my boot. I felt comfortable the whole time I was out there. I wasn't worried about it.
 
I had a mountain lion that was following me. But it was cool. He kept his distance. He was -- I think it was just somebody watching over me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) MIRACLE: I mean, that's certainly one way to look at a mountain lion that's stalking you. So, he was screaming for help. And there were actually reports of people who had heard his cries for help.
 
But the Santa Cruz mountains, they are dense, and they have towering redwood trees so nobody could really pinpoint exactly his location. Until search and rescue. They used a drone and a canine.
 
They were able to find him. He was able to make it out without any major injuries. Truly incredible, Jim.
 
ACOSTA: Wow. No kidding. I mean, and how did they finally find him? I mean, it -- was it just sort of a stroke of luck that he was found?
 
MIRACLE: Right. It was that drone and a canine. And he said once that they actually discovered him and he's -- they saw all of their search and rescue teams, it was an incredibly humbling experience.
 
But he also said it was awesome. And he's just a little bit sore and tired. I think that is the best-case scenario in this situation.
 
ACOSTA: Yes. And he's got a -- he's got a healthy attitude about mountain lions tracking you out in the wilderness.
 
MIRACLE: Yes.
 
ACOSTA: My goodness. I don't know if I would have had the same thought on that one. Veronica Miracle, thank you very much. Really appreciate it.
 
MIRACLE: No.
 
ACOSTA: Yes, exactly. All right. We'll be right back.
 
MIRACLE: Thanks, Jim.
 
ACOSTA: Thank you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:53:41]
 
ACOSTA: Six climate activists are charged with criminal mischief and trespassing after they stormed the 18th green of the PGA Tours Travelers Championship in Connecticut yesterday. Take a look at this. They appeared to wave smoke bombs which left powder on the green just as the tournament leaders including the world's number one golfer, Scottie Scheffler were ready to putt.
 
The protesters were quickly arrested. Some were wearing T-shirts that read No Golf On A Dead Planet. And here's how Scheffler reacted to what was happening as he was winning the tournament.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER, PRO-GOLFER: When something like that happens you don't really know what's happening so it can kind of rattle you a little bit just because there's people running around the green and there's police officers running around the green and you don't know if they're peaceful. You don't -- you don't -- you don't know what they're doing. It's --- you have no idea what's going on.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: A lot of excitement on the tour for Scheffler. The group Extinction Rebellion claimed responsibility for this.
 
Also new this morning. NASA is canceling a planned spacewalk at the International Space Station after an astronaut's spacesuit spring a leak. A livestream of the event from earlier this morning showed two astronauts about to exit the space station when they reported the issue with one astronaut describing water shooting out of the cooling unit on her spacesuit.
 
NASA says the crew was not in danger at any point. This was the second spacewalk in recent days that was abruptly canceled and called off because of spacesuit issues. NASA has another spacewalk scheduled for next week.
 <br>[11:55:05]
 
And before we go, little Pup and Circumstance. Cue the music. All right, take a look at this. A group of very special dogs recently got their graduation day. These hand-selected pups just went through a grueling five-month bootcamp with the ATF where they learned to detect thousands of explosives.
 
Here you can see them quickly figuring out which suitcase has the illicit substance. The handlers themselves also go through a rigorous process and can't even apply until they've been an agent for at least five years. One of the lucky dogs we should bet will get to work all of the University of Alabama football games.
 
The class of 2024 will join some 45 ATF dogs already working around the country. My little dog Dude, there's no way he would be able to sit still like that. He's way too hyper. But congrats to those dogs right there. Great job. Extra treats for all of them.
 
And thank you very much for joining me in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Jim Acosta. Stay with CNN. "INSIDE POLITICS" with Manu Raju starts after a short break. Have a great day.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)