Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Harris-Walz First Joint Interview in Three Hours; Harris and Walz on Bus Tour in Georgia; Gun Battle at West Bank Mosque; Five Militants Killed at West Bank Mosque; President Xi Meets Jake Sullivan in Beijing; Top Ukrainian Pilot Killed in F-16 Fighter Jet Crash; U.S. Army Rebukes Trump Campaign; Trump Reposts Vulgar Meme About Harris and Hillary Clinton; Typhoon Shanshan Weakens to Tropical Storm; Robo Window Washers; Nepalese Mountaineer Set His Sights on World Record. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired August 29, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR:  It is 7:00 a.m. in Tokyo, 8:00 a.m. in Melbourne, and 6:00 p.m. here in Atlanta. I'm Lynda Kinkade in for Julia 
 
 Chatterley. And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
A warm welcome to "First Move." Here is today's need to know. CNN's exclusive Kamala Harris, Tim Waltz interview set to air in three hours' 
 
 time. It's their first sit down interview since Harris announced her run for the U.S. presidency. We'll have a preview and reaction from both sides 
 
 of the aisle.
 
A gun battle at a mosque in the West Bank, and the death of an Islamic jihad commander will have the unfolding story with a live report.
 
Typhoon Shanshan makes landfall in Japan, but weakens to a tropical storm. Four million people are urged to evacuate as train and air travel are 
 
 disrupted. We're tracking its path.
 
And robots usually wipe the floor when it comes to competing with humans and now, they're wiping windows too. The latest tech company promising to 
 
 make easy work of a dangerous job. That conversation coming up.
 
But first, a little earlier, Vice President Kamala Harris sat down for an interview along with her running mate, Tim Walz. It's Harris' first major 
 
 interview since winning the Democratic nomination, and we have a preview of that interview airing in just a few hours. Our colleague Dana Bash pressed 
 
 Harris on why she had changed some of her positions on issues such as immigration. The vice president argues she's a reliable candidate. Take a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Generally speaking, how should voters look at some of the changes that you've made, that you've 
 
 explained some of here, in your policy? Is it because you have more experience now and you've learned more about the information? Is it because 
 
 you were running for president in a Democratic primary? And should they feel comfortable and confident that what you're saying now is going to be 
 
 your policy moving forward?
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  Dana, I think the most important and most significant aspect of 
 
 my policy perspective and decisions is my values have not changed.
 
You mentioned the Green New Deal. I have always believed, and I have worked on it, that the climate crisis is real, that it is an urgent matter to 
 
 which we should apply metrics that include holding ourselves to deadlines around time. We did that with the Inflation Reduction Act. We have set 
 
 goals for the United States of America, and by extension, the globe, around when we should meet certain standards for reduction of greenhouse gas 
 
 emissions, as an example, that value has not changed. My value around what we need to do to secure our border, that value has not changed.
 
I spent two terms as the attorney general of California prosecuting transnational criminal organizations, violations of American laws, 
 
 regarding the passage, illegal passage, of guns, drugs, and human beings across our border. My values have not changed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, that full interview is set to air at 9:00 p.m. Eastern on CNN. Eva McKend joins me now from Washington, D.C. Good to see you, Eva. 
 
 So, three hours from now, Vice President Harris' first interview since becoming the Democratic nominee for president. She's been riding this wave 
 
 of momentum, enthusiasm, energy, really an extended honeymoon period. So, what's at stake here?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Lynda, we know that from her time as a prosecutor in the courtroom and in those committee 
 
 hearing rooms as a United States senator, as well as all these foreign meetings or -- meetings with foreign leaders rather on the international 
 
 stage that she is a person that prepares strenuously for these types of big moments.
 
This is a big moment here. I think that the vice president had several things that she had to accomplish. One of which was explaining the change 
 
 in some of these key policy issues, on immigration, on health care. She had to explain her evolution on that and then, also, show voters that she's 
 
 comfortable in unscripted formats.
 
I think almost to a tee, the last couple of weeks have been so tightly choreographed for the vice president. As a result, there's been a huge 
 
 amount of momentum for her campaign. But voters also want to be able to see candidates off teleprompters and just relate to them and be able to answer 
 
 these tough questions.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
KINKADE:  Yes, exactly. And there's certainly a lot of interest in this interview. Of course, she is in the swing State of Georgia, but she didn't 
 
 do the interview here in Atlanta. She went to Savannah. Why Savannah? What are the political leanings there?
 
MCKEND:  I think that this is part of a larger strategy that we have seen from Democrats in Georgia, actually for quite a long time. I remember this 
 
 two years ago in the midterms. They're sort of blowing up the playbook here, because they understand that in addition to driving up the numbers in 
 
 Metro Atlanta, they also need to compete in more rural areas, outside of Atlanta as well.
 
And even if they don't win some of these counties outright, they still need to chip away at Republican gains in those communities. And there are 
 
 Democrats there. There are Democrats in Southern Georgia. I've traveled there extensively and they often lament that candidates kind of skip them 
 
 over. So, this is a strategic choice that Democrats hope this cycle will pay off.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Eva McKend in Washington D.C., good to have you with us. We'll be watching that interview in the coming hours. Thanks so much.
 
Well, staying on this story, I want to welcome Democratic strategist, Maria Cardona. Good to see you, Maria.
 
MARIA CARDONA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST AND CO- HOST, "HOT MICS FROM LEFT TO RIGHT" PODCAST:  Thank you, Lynda. Great to be with you.
 
KINKADE:  So, Maria, Harris has now done her first interview. It will air here on CNN three hours from now. But Republicans are saying that she's 
 
 hiding from a real interview. Trump's team attacking her for doing this interview alongside her running mate, Tim Walz, calling it weak. After such 
 
 a big, big build up, why wouldn't she do her first interview solo?
 
CARDONA:  She will do a solo interview, Lynda, but it is actually quite traditional and normal for a ticket, a presidential nominee, along with her 
 
 vice-presidential nominee to do an interview together. And look, these attacks by Republicans I think just really underscore how desperate they 
 
 are to try to land something, because they have tried from the moment that Kamala Harris became the nominee, they have tried everything. They have 
 
 thrown everything at her and nothing has stuck.
 
And the reason why nothing has stuck, Lynda, is because the first time that she came out as the nominee, she came out swinging. She came out 
 
 authentically. She came out with joy. She came out with strength. She came out talking to voters about what it is that she would do in a Kamala Harris 
 
 administration to fight for them every single day. To build upon the massive accomplishments that she helped President Biden bring to voters in 
 
 the last three and a half years.
 
Sixty million new jobs, economic growth, inflation is down, jobs are up, the GDP is up, the stock market is through the roof. But she also 
 
 understands that a lot of families are still hurting because of the everyday cost of living. So, she has made that one of her key priorities.
 
She is connecting with voters, Lynda, and that scares Republicans to death. They are desperate. And so, this weak attack about her doing an interview 
 
 solo versus with her vice president, just to me underscores how desperate and how scared they are of the momentum that Kamala Harris has.
 
KINKADE:  Although, Maria, we can't deny that this -- there's a lot of hype around this interview because it is the first one since she started running 
 
 for the presidency. And she could have gone ahead and done plenty of interviews on podcasts and for print and for other networks, but just this 
 
 one, which means it probably will be heavily, heavily scrutinized.
 
We've only seen a couple of snippets. So, we don't know if there are any major gaffes or even minor gaffes. If there are, could this potentially 
 
 alter the course of this campaign?
 
CARDONA:  Well, I think part of what we're seeing, Lynda, in this historic campaign is the very short timeline, which is why you saw that one of her 
 
 major priorities, surprise, and I know that we might not like this, it's not talking to us in the media, Lynda, it's talking to voters because 
 
 they're the ones who are going to make the decision as to who's going to be the next president of the United States.
 
She has talked to American voters from the day she became the nominee. She has gone out there nonstop. She has gone to swing states nonstop. She talks 
 
 to reporters every single place that she goes to. She talks to voters wherever she is in her rallies.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
And so, again, Republicans are the ones who are really hyping this up, and that's fine. She talks about her own biography. She was a courtroom 
 
 prosecutor. She was a district attorney in San Francisco. She was an attorney general. She was a United States senator. She was vice president 
 
 for the last three and a half years. Do we really not think this woman can get through an interview, Lynda?
 
And so, to me, I don't think it's very smart for Republicans to be hyping this interview up so much because she gets through this, she puts sentences 
 
 together, she makes sense, and it's a huge win for her. So, again, to me, this just underscores that Republicans have nothing, that since she has 
 
 become the nominee, they are completely discombobulated, they don't know how to run against her.
 
Donald Trump, as we know, is scared of strong women. Imagine a strong woman who also happens to be black and of South Asian descent and someone who is 
 
 the daughter of immigrants, that to me is like Donald Trump's biggest nightmare. And so, that's why I think you're seeing Republicans just fumble 
 
 and fumble and fumble over and over and over again.
 
And when she gets through this interview tonight, I think without any huge gaps and we'll see, you know, I don't think there is, but we'll see, then 
 
 where are Republicans going to go from there?
 
KINKADE:  Exactly. They will be watching it closely as well the rest of us. Maria Cardona, Democratic strategist, good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
CARDONA:  Thank you so much. Great to be with you.
 
KINKADE:  And you can of course watch the entire interview, Kamala Harris and Tim Waltz, right here on CNN with Dana Bash That's at 9:00 p.m. 
 
 Eastern, less than three hours from now.
 
Well, to other news now, and Israel says that it has killed a key Islamic jihad commander during a firefight in and around a West Bank mosque. Israel 
 
 says four other militants were killed. It happened on the second day of Israel's largest assault on the West Bank in years. The Israeli foreign 
 
 minister is calling for a Gaza style operation against terrorists there.
 
But there are growing concerns over the violence, with the U.N. General Secretary -- General -- Secretary General condemning the loss of civilian's 
 
 life, including that of children.
 
Well, Jeremy Diamond has been following the developments and joins us now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (VOICE-OVER):  For the second day in a row, bursts of gunfire cut through the City of Jenin in the 
 
 occupied West Bank. Israeli soldiers and border police are raiding the northern West Bank in one of the largest operations in years, triggering 
 
 clashes with Palestinian militants who are deeply embedded here.
 
Israeli forces have killed at least 16 people in 48 hours, according to health officials. Israel says 16 were militants, Palestinian militant 
 
 groups said just eight of their fighters had been killed.
 
In Jenin, Israeli forces have surrounded several hospitals. Ambulances must stop and be inspected before taking patients in for treatment. Markets and 
 
 bustling downtown streets have been turned into a ghost town. One where streets, water, and electrical lines will need to be repaired.
 
DIAMOND:  This is the aftermath of an Israeli military operation in the City of Jenin, streets torn up by those D9 bulldozers. And we've seen 
 
 scenes like this across this city. Those bulldozers, as well as armored Israeli military vehicles, came rolling down this street. Clashes with 
 
 gunmen, we're told, ensued.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Suzanne Jalad (ph) and her grandchildren were woken by the sound of bulldozers and gunfire at 7:00 in the morning.
 
It was loud, very loud. Everybody was terrified. She says this Israeli operation is different from the regular raids this city has grown used to. 
 
 They want to take revenge, she says. From who, I ask? From the resistance. We stand with the resistance and hopefully we will stay standing and 
 
 steadfast.
 
Israel says it is targeting militant groups who have mounted dozens of attacks against its soldiers and civilians. The Palestinian city of 
 
 Tulkarm, Israel killed one man, it says, was behind those attacks. Mohammed Jabber, an Islamic Jihad commander.
 
But at Al-Razi Hospital in Jenin, the victims of Israel's raids are also children, like 15-year-old Osama (ph) who tried to leave his home to buy 
 
 bread.
 
I took two steps and they started firing at me. Osama (ph) says, two rounds of gunfire. One bullet came here and one bullet came here.
 
DIAMOND:  And did you see any soldiers before you got shot?
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  No, he says. Sniper. He now faces a long recovery, and a life trapped in this seemingly endless cycle of violence.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Jeremy Diamond joins us now live. Jeremy, it's, of course, not just the U.N. condemning what's happening, other countries, including 
 
 Jordan, Syria, Britain, France also raising the alarm -- at the alarm about what's happening in the West Bank.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
Israel has said it will pause some operations from this weekend. What can you tell us?
 
DIAMOND (on camera):  Well, we do know that the Israeli military for now is continuing to carry out these raids in the West Bank. It's not exactly 
 
 clear when that operation will end. The notion of tactical pauses that we have heard appears to be related to the situation in Gaza, where the World 
 
 Health Organization, the United Nations and others are in the process of preparing to distribute the polio vaccine after a now 11-month-old baby was 
 
 diagnosed with polio in Gaza and concerns now spreading that that disease could spread further in Gaza.
 
We know that about 1.2 million doses of that vaccine have now arrived in Gaza. The question is, can they be effectively distributed while this war 
 
 rages on? And Israel appears to have agreed to implement tactical pauses related to the delivery of that vaccine in specific areas. This isn't a 
 
 pause of operations altogether, but it does appear to be intended to try and facilitate the distribution and administration of that vaccine in Gaza. 
 
 We will see, of course, whether or not that is effective. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Jeremy Diamond for us in Tel Aviv, Israel. Good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
We're just weeks before the U.S. election. Chinese President Xi Jinping says he's committed to a stable relationship with Washington. He made the 
 
 comment in a meeting with President Biden's national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, and their conversation wraps up Sullivan's three-day visit to 
 
 Beijing. Sullivan says direct talks between President Biden and his Chinese counterpart are a distinct possibility.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER:  It is likely that both President Biden and President Xi will be at APEC and the G20 later this 
 
 year. I don't have any announcements to make on either President Biden's travel or a potential meeting, but the likelihood is they'll both be there, 
 
 and if they are, it would only be natural for them to have the chance to sit down with one another. So, we'll have to await any confirmation or any 
 
 announcements, but I think things pointing in that direction seem logical and reasonable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  And while the U.S. and China try to improve communications, their relations remain fraught. A big point of contention is China's behavior 
 
 towards the Philippines in the South China Sea. Our Ivan Watson has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Collisions, water cannons, and screaming matches involving sailors armed 
 
 with knives and axes, a spree of incidents and collisions in the last several days, adding new tensions to months of skirmishes between China and 
 
 close U.S. ally, the Philippines, in contested waters of the South China Sea. A David and Goliath struggle CNN witnessed firsthand earlier this 
 
 year.
 
WATSON:  And as you may see, there is a large Chinese Coast Guard ship directly in front of this Philippines Coast Guard vessel.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Growing concerns that one of these confrontations in the South China Sea could spiral out of control.
 
DR. RAHMAN YAACOB, SOUTHEAST ASIA SECURITY EXPERT, LOWY INSTITUTE:  Are we going to see a military conflict between the Philippines and the Chinese? 
 
 Could be.
 
WATSON:  The confrontations revolve around several contested reefs and shoals. Most of them are located well within the exclusive economic zone of 
 
 the Philippines. And as you can clearly see, much further away from Mainland China.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Beijing places the blame squarely on the Philippines.
 
LIN JIAN, SPOKESPERSON, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY (through translator):  We urge certain individuals in the Philippines to stop going further down the 
 
 path of stirring up trouble and making provocations.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Meanwhile, the Philippine president issued this warning back in May.
 
FERDINAND MARCOS JR., PHILIPPINE PRESIDENT:  If a Filipino citizen is killed by a willful act, that is, I think, very, very close to what we 
 
 define as an act of war. And therefore, we will respond accordingly.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Washington has a mutual defense treaty with Manila. At a meeting with the Philippine Armed Forces chief this week, a U.S. navy 
 
 commander suggested U.S. ships could get directly involved in the maritime dispute.
 
ADM. SAMUEL PAPARO, U.S. INDO-PACIFIC COMMAND COMMANDER:  Escort of one vessel to the other is an entirely reasonable option within our mutual 
 
 defense treaty among this close alliance between the two of us.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  However, during a visit to Beijing on Thursday, President Biden's National Security Council adviser called for a de-
 
 escalation with the People's Republic of China.
 
SULLIVAN:  Nobody is looking for a crisis, not the Philippines, not the United States, and we hope not the PRC.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
WATSON (voice-over):  But things can get very unpredictable very quickly when large ships play a dangerous game of chicken on the high seas.
 
Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, Typhoon Shanshan slamming into southern Japan with torrential rains and punishing winds. Millions of citizens have 
 
 been urged to evacuate. We'll have the latest on the storm's dangerous paths.
 
Plus, they aren't scared of heights, they work around the clock, and they never pause to take in the stunning views. Why many believe robotic window 
 
 washers will transform a high-risk profession and create human jobs in the process.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. A volatile day on Wall Street tops today's Money Move. U.S. stocks finishing mixed with the Dow rising to a fresh record 
 
 high. Tech started the day off strong, but the sector was unable to shake off the negative market reaction to NVIDIA's latest profit report. Shares 
 
 of the A.I. chip giant falling 6 percent after its solid results failed to live up to expectations. NVIDIA bulls saying the firm's growth story 
 
 remains intact despite production snags affecting its upcoming line of faster chips.
 
A rough session for discount retailer Dollar General as well. The firm cutting guidance and warning that U.S. customers remain financially 
 
 strapped. Its shares fell more than 30 percent.
 
And a mixed day of trade in Asia, South Korean shares falling 1 percent. Chip stocks, they're weaker after NVIDIA's results, the Hang Seng rose half 
 
 a percent.
 
Well, turning now to Japan, where tropical storm Shanshan made landfall Thursday as a typhoon. Nearly 4 million people in the southern part of the 
 
 country were told to evacuate. The storm has led to widespread power cuts and hundreds of cancelled flights. The weather was so dangerous, one plane 
 
 began to rock back and forth as it approached the airport. The pilot then had to abort that landing attempt.
 
Well, for more on this, I'm joined by Chad Myers. That would have been a frightening plane to be on. I'm surprised it was flying in the storm.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  I know. And when you're flying down the runway and you can look out your window and see the runway itself because 
 
 the plane is at such yaw, those are the ones that I don't like at all.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
So, yes, we did have wind. We had winds, I mean, almost 200 KPH in places here. But the rainfall is the true culprit of all the damage we're seeing. 
 
 The rainfall has been coming down and it's not stopping. The winds have died down, they are not any longer a typhoon type wind. These are just 
 
 gusts around 50 or 60 KPH.
 
So, here's your rainfall across parts of Kyushu, even a little bit sneaking up toward Honshu now. Had some heavy rain over toward Osaka and some 
 
 showers even right now for the morning hours in Tokyo. But this thing doesn't move. Again, we showed you this yesterday. In 48 hours, this thing 
 
 moves about 300 kilometers. That's it. And that's going to make more rainfall in places, that's 85 centimeters, almost 86 centimeters of 
 
 rainfall. So, the better part of 85, 86 percent of a meter stick that has already come down over the past three days in some of these places.
 
And more rain is to come. There are places in here with the purple and the white that will still get an additional 500 millimeters, a half of a meter 
 
 stick still to come.
 
Seeing some storms in the U.S. as well. Here's Washington, D.C., the nation's capital, being surrounded by some pretty big storms there. Some of 
 
 the planes are moving around, diverting to other places because of those heavier rain showers, even some flooding possible around the nation's 
 
 capital.
 
And now, for the -- I guess the second time in three days, we're getting storms through Minneapolis. Those storms, though, will continue to move to 
 
 the east and maybe even affect the Chicago morning commute tomorrow morning. So, any planes in and out of Chicago tomorrow morning may have to 
 
 deal with a thunderstorm or two. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Well, keep an eye on it. Chad Myers, good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
And we're going to take a quick break. Much more in just a moment. Stay with us. You're watching "First Move."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade with a look at more international headlines this hour. Yemen's Houthi rebels have released 
 
 new videos showing their destruction of a Greek-flagged oil tanker. They attacked the ship last week in the Red Sea.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
It's part of a campaign by the Iranian-backed group to disrupt the maritime route. The Pentagon says the vessel was carrying around 1 million barrels 
 
 of crude oil and is warning of a potential environmental disaster.
 
The CIA has confirmed that U.S. agencies provided intelligence to Austrian authorities that helped them foil an attack on a Taylor Swift concert last 
 
 month -- this month. The Central Intelligence Agency says the ISIS inspired plot was quite advanced and threatened to kill tens of thousands of people 
 
 in Vienna. Three teenagers have been detained in connection with that plot.
 
And here's something you don't see every day, an airport departure board being written by hand. That's been the situation at Seattle-Tacoma 
 
 International Airport, where a cyberattack is continuing to disrupt operations. System outages have now gone on for almost a week. The airport 
 
 is warning Labor Day passengers to expect blank information screens and to only bring carryon bags, if possible.
 
Well, Ukraine says it struck two oil depots inside Russia on Wednesday, one of the strikes causing a fire at this facility in the Rostov region. The 
 
 other attack was in the Kirov region. A Ukrainian official says further strikes were launched at a military depot in southwestern Russia.
 
Well, meantime, Ukraine's army chief says fighting around the Eastern Ukraine area is quite extremely fierce, with troops working around the 
 
 clock to repel Russian forces.
 
Ukrainian military source says one of the country's top pilots was killed in action Monday when his U.S.-made F-16 plane crashed. Frederik Pleitgen 
 
 reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Ukraine called it the largest Russian aerial barrage to date. Moscow's 
 
 troops launching hundreds of drones and missiles on Monday.
 
Ukraine using U.S.-made F-16 jets to help repel the attack. Now, Kyiv acknowledging one of the F-16s crashed, killing one of Ukraine's top 
 
 fighter aces. Oleksiy Mes, known by his call sign Moonfish. Ukraine's general command, saying, quote, during the approach to the next target, 
 
 communication with one of the aircraft was lost. As it turned out later, the plane crashed, the pilot died.
 
Few Ukrainian fighter pilots were more instrumental in lobbying partners to give Ukraine the F-16s than Moonfish.
 
OLEKSIY MES "MOONFISH," UKRAINIAN AIR FORCE PILOT:  This war does not appear to end soon, if west will provide us with some additional jets with 
 
 some additional Sam's (ph) and we're really looking forward to it. We -- I think we will be able to control our sky for a while.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  Moonfish was one of the first Ukrainian pilots instructed on the F-16 around six months of training that normally take 
 
 years.
 
MES:  It is really super fun jet to fly. I'm not saying that MiG that I flew before is super boring, but the F-16 is definitely more agile. It's 
 
 easily moves. The moment you think of something, it turns.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had been asking western allies for the F-16 since the start of Russia's full-scale 
 
 invasion, warning that Ukraine's air force was becoming more and more depleted, and that its old Soviet era planes couldn't match up against 
 
 Russia's newer aircraft.
 
Finally, last year, several European countries agreed to donate the jets, with the green light from the U.S. as the manufacturing country. Moonfish 
 
 and another pilot known by the call sign Juice became the faces of the campaign to get the F-16s to Ukraine's skies. Juice was killed in a plane 
 
 crash just over a year ago before ever flying the jets.
 
On Tuesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the Ukrainian Air Force used the F-16 to destroy missiles and drones launched by Russia on 
 
 Monday, the first time any Ukrainian official confirmed the jets were being used in combat.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  We destroyed already some missiles and drones using F-16. I will not share how many, but we did it.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  One of the few pilots trained to fly the jets, Moonfish death is a major blow for Ukraine, as Kyiv throws everything it 
 
 has trying to turn the tide in this war.
 
MES:  We are comparative with small air force and we know each other by names. And of course, we know well all our fallen friends.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Przemysl, Poland.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, the U.S. Army released a strongly worded statement Thursday, accusing the Trump presidential campaign of ignoring the rules at 
 
 Arlington National Cemetery. The Army says one of its employees was abruptly pushed aside by Trump's team after asking them to abide by federal 
 
 laws which ban political activities inside military cemeteries.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
The Republican presidential candidate went to Arlington Monday to pay tribute to the 13 U.S. troops who died at Kabul's Airport Abbey Gate three 
 
 years ago. Trump is defending his visit to Arlington and denied using the photos for politics, saying, the one thing I get is plenty of publicity. I 
 
 don't need that. And he says, the family asked him to take photos at the grave site.
 
Well, Former President Trump was back on the campaign trail Thursday with stops in Midwest battleground states of Michigan and Wisconsin. These are 
 
 his first campaign events this week. And Trump's first stop was in Porterville, Michigan, where he talked about the economy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I'm here today with a simple message for the American autoworker and for 
 
 the American worker, your long economic nightmare will very soon be over. It's going to be over. I'm going to turn it around. With your vote we will 
 
 defeat comrade Kamala Harris and we will bring back the American dream bigger, better, stronger, and just better.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Trump and his team will surely be paying attention to our colleague Dana Bash's interview with Vice President Kamala Harris and her 
 
 running mate, Tim Walz. It's their first extended interview since Harris clinched the Democratic presidential nomination. And it will air in its 
 
 entirety in just a few hours at 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time in the U.S. That's 9:00 a.m. in Hong Kong.
 
Republican strategist Rina Shah joins me now for more on all of this. No doubt, Rina, Trump's team will be watching that interview closely ahead of 
 
 their expected debate if it should happen September 10th on the ABC. What will they be watching for?
 
RINA SHAH, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST AND FORMER SENIOR PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN ADVISER:  Well, in particular, in this sit down with Harris and Walz, I 
 
 think millions of Americans will be looking to hear the vice president, in her own words, how she plans to be different than her current boss, 
 
 President Biden. There will be a range of topics, no doubt, being discussed from Gaza, all the way to fracking and Medicare for All.
 
In particular, Medicare for All, the single payer system, as well as the issue of fracking for oil. Those are two topics that were central to her 
 
 2020 bid for the White House in which she was unfortunately unsuccessful and quite at the bottom of the pack in that Democratic primary.
 
But of course, in that primary, Biden went on to name her as the running mate and many people are now saying that what we know now about this vice 
 
 president is that this is a different candidate. This is a reintroduction she has to do of herself and show that the American public can trust her to 
 
 keep her word on these different stances in particular.
 
KINKADE:  And of course, recently, Donald Trump questioned her race. She was asked about that in the interview. I mean, a sneak peek we've already 
 
 heard. But we also saw Trump today reposting sexual remark that is really too vulgar to show on CNN about Kamala Harris and Hillary Clinton. Why 
 
 would Trump amplify that ugliness?
 
SHAH:  Well, Trump amplifies a lot of ugliness and has since 2016. So, this is no different than Trump being Trump. And unfortunately, it is a very 
 
 difficult moment, as I'm raising young daughters and I myself have worked for years to get more women into American elected and political life at 
 
 various levels, whether they be political appointments or again running for office at every level.
 
I should know, Kamala Harris is a unique in one particular way. She has been elected at all levels of U.S. government, local, state and federal. 
 
 And so, to see a woman of her stature, somebody who's worked to get where she is, and whether you like her or not, those are just the facts.
 
It is tough to see that she is still being criticized by the former president, Trump. You know, this is a disgusting and unfortunate thing that 
 
 many women in public life have to endure. But the fact that Trump continues to levy such ridiculous allegations against her, some of which I'm 
 
 embarrassed to even repeat, it is the kind of thing that we as American women know we have to fight against, but so many of Trump's supporters, as 
 
 they have from 2016, continue to say, this is locker room talk, this is boys being boys.
 
And so, in essence, I do see Harris and her team continuing to just move past these personal and character attacks and try to speak to the issues of 
 
 the day and try to talk to winning -- about winning this race.
 
KINKADE:  And of course, Rina, the U.S. Army is criticizing Donald Trump and his team for going to Arlington Cemetery and taking photos at an area 
 
 that is banned under federal law from campaign events. But instead of apologizing, Donald Trump is doubling down. Why?
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
SHAH:  Well, Trump loves loyalty and his team is being loyal to him. You know, they know that he loves to get pictorial evidence of whatever he does 
 
 to show that he's doing something for the American public. And in many cases, he is crafting political stunts, much like any political candidate 
 
 does, but he goes a step further, almost to highlight something that isn't really there.
 
What he did at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, though it was -- he was requested by certain families to be there, I think was an affront and a 
 
 slap to the face of the many military families who've lost somebody in action. And frankly, anybody whose family has put on the brave uniform of 
 
 our nation.
 
So, I don't know how this is much different than previous things he's done to attack military families, and there's a long list of them. All I know is 
 
 that his team is, this time, personally liable, it seems for a physical altercation with somebody that is official U.S. government staff and was 
 
 just carrying out the duties of her job.
 
I think it should be highlighted that this is kind of mob boss, mafioso behavior, and Trump seems to be OK with it by doubling down and defending 
 
 his team as having done nothing wrong, even though they were breaking the rules that are on the books.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Rina Shah, good to have you with us. Thanks so much. We will all be watching that interview later today with Kamala Harris and 
 
 Tim Walz. Less than three hours from now on CNN. Thank you.
 
SHAH:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, getting windows cleaned is the job of this robotic machine. We're going to speak to a company hoping to revolutionize 
 
 the multibillion-dollar window washing industry by replacing humans with bots.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade. Just take a minute to consider the high stress, high-risk job of the window washer. 
 
 They work demanding hours, they're suspended hundreds of feet off the ground, and they're dangerously exposed to the elements.
 
And now, consider what some believe to be a more productive, safer alternative, the robotic window washer. This hardy contraption, called 
 
 Ozmo, has been hard at work this week scrubbing and squidging the windows of a skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan. Ozmo is equipped with artificial 
 
 intelligence and other advanced technologies, limiting the need for human involvement.
 
Well, the brains behind Ozmo is the company called Skyline Robotics. They say their machines can clean much faster than humans. They also say that 
 
 instead of taking away human jobs, robotic washers will actually create jobs.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
Ross Blum joins me now. He is the president and chief operating officer of Skyline Robotics. Good to have you with us.
 
ROSS BLUM, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, SKYLINE ROBOTICS:  Thank you, Lynda. Really appreciate you having me on the show today.
 
KINKADE:  So, high rise window washing began, you know, in the late 19th century in New York, but your company is the first to deploy robots to do 
 
 the job. Just how efficient are they?
 
BLUM:  So, we move about three times faster than a traditional human cleaner, but at the end of the day, window cleaning is a marathon and not a 
 
 sprint. So, our job is to make sure that these high-rise buildings, these skyscrapers, these iconic places that you go to in metropolitan areas 
 
 remain pristine, clean, and you know, up to tenant standards.
 
KINKADE:  And of course, for humans, the job currently is still risky despite all the safety precautions. I still recall that incident in 2014, 
 
 One World Trade Center, where there were a couple of window washers dangling at 68 stories above ground for 90 minutes until being rescued. Are 
 
 your robotic washers without risk?
 
BLUM:  So, that's a great question. And first and foremost, we have a tremendous amount of respect for the men and women that do -- that are 
 
 window cleaners completing this very tough task in variable weather conditions. We do hope that we can promote safety and new and innovative 
 
 ways with our technology, but at the end of the day, we still have human window cleaners on site. They're just rather than being on the scaffolding, 
 
 they're standing on the rooftop safely, monitoring the system and we're training them and upscaling the current labor force to be able to handle 
 
 this new way of completing the same task.
 
KINKADE:  And, Ross, what do you say to those who say that automation is coming for your job?
 
BLUM:  That's a great question. And candidly, we believe that the existing window cleaning workforce is the same workforce that should exist going 
 
 forward. Again, all we're doing is introducing a new way to complete the task. And the existing labor force, if you look at the statistics across 
 
 the United States, you have 75 percent of window cleaners above the age of 40, only 9 percent between the ages of 20 and 30.
 
And when you consider about -- you know, just how this job is performed today at heights, variable weather conditions, manual labor, you can 
 
 understand why maybe that next generation isn't showing up at the same rate.
 
So, we do one day hope that we can actually turn that, you know, valve back on, create much more interest in this job function and really make sure 
 
 that these underlying assets that we're cleaning remain pristine and, you know, are cleaned at a high level forever.
 
KINKADE:  And just quickly, talk to us about cost. How does it compare to what corporations are currently paying window cleaners?
 
BLUM:  That's a great question. And the labor rates from market to market, even in the U.S. are slightly different. But at the end of the day, we want 
 
 to be competitive with that pricing, but bring transparency data and automation to the forefront of an industry that's never really seen that 
 
 technology before.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Ross Blum of Skyline Robotics, good to have you on the program. Thanks for your time.
 
BLUM:  Thank you, Lynda. Appreciate it.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still ahead, going above and beyond in the most awe- inspiring way, the Nepalese teenager's setting his sights on an incredible world record.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. Well, the CEO of Ryanair is calling for airport bars to limit the number of drinks it serves. Michael O'Leary told The 
 
 Daily Telegraph that passengers should be limited to two drinks per person while at the airport. O'Leary says this will help reduce the amount of 
 
 unruly passengers and violent outbursts. He says his Ryanair crew members have seen a, quote, notable rise in bad behavior, which he attributes to 
 
 alcohol consumption.
 
Well, now to a mountaineer who wants to make history at just 18 years of age. Nima Rinji Sherpa has already climbed 13 of the world's highest peaks. 
 
 And on his next trek, he could become the youngest person to summit all 14 mountains that are 8,000 meters or higher. That's almost five miles above 
 
 sea level.
 
But he says it's not just about breaking records, it's about inspiring young people and showing them what's possible in the world of 
 
 mountaineering.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Step-by-step this teenager is on his way to making history. 18-year-old Nima Rinji Sherpa is setting his sights on the highest 
 
 peaks in the world. After reaching 13, he's aiming to become the youngest person to climb all the 14 mountains above 8,000 meters. Even though he 
 
 comes from a community of mountaineers, this is still a big deal.
 
NIMA RINJI SHERPA, MOUNTAINEER:  This is a very big kind of advantage for the Sherpa community and even for me and for everyone. You know, like -- 
 
 because before this, you cannot -- you can't imagine a teenager doing the 14 peaks, you know.
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Sherpas are an ethnic group native to the valleys around Mount Everest. And they're often guides for mountaineers in the 
 
 Himalayas. They carry large loads like equipment and food, fixing ladders and ropes along the way, always a dangerous feat.
 
And climbing such incredible heights also brings great risks. Avalanches, exposure and high-altitude sickness can easily take over and can be the 
 
 difference between a successful summit and never reaching the peak. But Nima Rinji Sherpa says his mental state is what keeps him focused and calm.
 
N. SHERPA:  I've kind of convinced myself, you know, like to be normally in the mountain. Like for example, when I see avalanche or bad weather or when 
 
 there is an accident in the mountain, I'm not in a hurry. I don't get like nervous or something like that.
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Despite growing up in a family of mountaineers, Sherpa never wanted to follow in their footsteps, until just two years ago. 
 
 His father, owner of Nepal's largest mountain expedition company says, for years, he's been preparing his son for a moment like this.
 
TASHI LAKPA SHERPA, FOUNDER OF SEVEN SUMMIT TREKS:  He's very active and he's very fit, because physical and mentally, you should be very prepared 
 
 to do the big mountain climbing.
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Only about 40 people have reached all 14 peaks of what they call the eight-thousanders. They're all in the Himalayan and 
 
 Karakoram ranges spanning China, Pakistan, Nepal and India. As the youngest climber, not only has Sherpa broken multiple records, his expeditions have 
 
 taught him a lot.
 
N. SHERPA:  I've learned so much things about nature, human body, human psychology, meeting new people, nature and like everything in the world 
 
 that I learned from the mountain.
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  With his sights set on one last mountain, Shishapangma in Tibet, he's hoping to inspire others and develop 
 
 mountaineering into a professional sport. So, whether he's on the ground or on top of the world, Sherpa is set on breaking more barriers.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE (on camera):  Well, now to an exploration of a different kind, and an amazing deep sea discovery has been made by oceanographers. During a 20-
 
 day expedition off the coast of Chile, the team captured video of a rare underwater squid and octopus, including one of the scientists informally 
 
 nicknamed the Casper octopus. They also found a creature known as the flying spaghetti monster and scorpion fish.
 
Well, researchers reportedly logged 20 potential new species of the animals. And the team was mapping the region's large underwater mountain 
 
 range.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
Stunning pictures. Well finally, from "First Move" to a historic first pitch for baseball. Dodgers' superstar Shohei Ohtani called on his furry 
 
 friend for some help. His dog Decoy stole the show and plenty of hearts when he helped his owner throw the ceremonial first pitch against 
 
 Baltimore. Thousands of fans descended on the stadium Wednesday with the Dodgers giving away bobblehead figurines featuring Ohtani and his dog 
 
 before the game. Truly two sporting icons. So, cute.
 
Well, that just about wraps up the show. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Thanks so much for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow. Same time.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END