Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: U.S. Charges Hamas Leaders Over October 7 Attack; Day Three Of Protests In Israel; Israeli Protesters Demand Hostage-Ceasefire Deal; Russian Strike Kills 51 Around Ukrainian Military Academy; Zelenskyy Calling For More Air Defenses; New York Governor's Former Aide Charged With Acting As A Chinese Spy; Venezuela Issues Arrest Warrant For Edmundo Gonzalez; U.S. Stock Tumble On First Trading Day Of September; Pope Francis Arrives In Indonesia; Mpox Vaccines Arriving In Africa; New Gel Stops Bleeding In Seconds. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired September 03, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: You can follow the show on X, @TheLeadCNN. If you ever miss an episode of The Lead, you can listen to the show whence you get 
 
 your podcast. It's all two hours, just sitting right there, like a delicious plum.
 
The news continues on CNN with Wolf Blitzer. He's right next door in a place I like to call The Situation Room. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE: It is 4:00 a.m. in Dhaka, 5:00 p.m. in Bogota, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move" as always, and here's today's need to know. The United States charges Hamas leaders over the October 7th 
 
 terrorist attack in Israel. A Russian ballistic missile strike killing 51 at and around a Ukrainian military academy. Spy scandal. A former aide of 
 
 New York's governor is charged with acting as a Chinese spy. And blood block. The plant-based gel that stops severe bleeding in seconds. That 
 
 conversation and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, the U.S. announcing criminal charges against several Hamas leaders for the first time. It comes after the death of Israeli-American 
 
 hostage Hersh Goldberg-Polin in Gaza and a promise from President Joe Biden to hold Hamas accountable. Goldberg-Polin was one of six hostages killed in 
 
 Gaza who were held by Hamas and recovered over the weekend.
 
It led to three days of protests in Israel amid public demands for an immediate ceasefire and hostage deal. Many protesters say the government 
 
 should be doing more to bring the remaining hostages home. Negotiations stalled after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu insisted Israel must 
 
 control the Philadelphi Corridor along Gaza's border with Egypt. Hamas wants a full withdrawal of Israeli troops. Thousands of Israelis marched 
 
 together on Tuesday while Hamas revealed chilling orders to kill the hostages if Israeli troops close in.
 
Our Nic Robertson is in Tel Aviv for us tonight. Nic, good to have you with us. We can talk to us about what the protests are saying and the scale of 
 
 the protests that we're seeing, but I think the context here matters.
 
If we go back to May, Netanyahu agreed to with President Biden's proposals that didn't include the presence of troops in that corridor. Why is he now 
 
 fighting this point at the potential cost of a deal? Because clearly protesters are saying it doesn't deem necessary.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT: Yes. And his -- one of the country's former defense ministers, Benny Gantz, who's a leader 
 
 of the opposition and was in the war cabinet, so, he knows something of the behind-the-scenes discussions that have been had, and he says, look, this 
 
 is essentially a fabrication or fabricated issue by the prime minister to make it so big to present it as an existential threat when it really is a 
 
 strategic consideration but not the existential threat the prime minister presents it as.
 
And Benny Gantz said this in a TV addressed the other -- address -- that was seen across the country tonight, and he said, look, the prime minister 
 
 was offered some other military technical solutions for the Philadelphi Corridor as a way to monitor it and control it. Because the prime minister 
 
 said the reason this is such a problem is because when Hamas had control of it or it was under Palestinian control, Hamas put tunnels under it and they 
 
 built -- they brought in a lot of Iranian and other weapons into Gaza and use those to fire at Israel.
 
And the prime minister's point was we need to control that border to block the tunnels and control the tunnels. But Benny Gantz said, no, that's not 
 
 the case. There are other solutions, technical military solutions.
 
So, this is being debunked at a sort of a senior political level. But just, you know, dismissed disparagingly at the street level because people have 
 
 lost faith, lost trust in the prime minister. Don't believe it. Don't buy it. It's an issue that was introduced, they say they first heard about it 
 
 in May this year. And the reason being that that proposal, peace proposal put forward in May that Israel agreed to was the same one that Hamas says 
 
 it agrees to. And the one that Hamas wants to talk about now and the contention was that Israel added on additional things, and the Philadelphi 
 
 Corridor was one of them. And the prime minister continues to present it as an existential issue, according to Benny Gantz, leader of one of the 
 
 opposition parties.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Netanyahu's come under pressure in the past, Nic. We've seen this many times now, whether it's security officials, whether it's 
 
 coalition partners, whether it's allies like the United States. Just describe the degree of pressure when you tie in now public protest pushing 
 
 for a ceasefire deal and a hostage deal. Does it really determine the future or could they even come back to bringing troops into this corridor, 
 
 for example, even if there are other military options? Is it worth it to Netanyahu to dig his heels in at this moment if a deal is as close as some 
 
 would suggest, certainly the White House would suggest?
 
ROBERTSON: Yes, I'll offer you an imprecise and maybe slightly in the context because we're talking about lives here. It's slightly inappropriate 
 
 context. But it is a little bit like, if you will, somebody at a roulette table or a card table. And if you move away when you're in a losing 
 
 position, then you lose. But if you stay in and stay in the game, and this is what Netanyahu is doing, he hopes still to be able to prove that he was 
 
 right, that Hamas can be destroyed.
 
And he -- you know, let's say Yahya Sinwar, the leader of Hamas, was killed overnight tonight, then the prime minister will be in a position of being 
 
 able to say, look, I told you we could do it. We did it. We broke the back of Hamas. You know, let's see where we get on negotiations.
 
Now, the position could change. So, as long as he's still in the game to use that expression, he has the potential, in his mind, to come out proving 
 
 the point that he thinks he can prove. Now, many leaders who are in power for a long time, like him, get to the point where they believe that their 
 
 view is right. And if they just have enough time, they can prove it's right. But he does have time, if you will, because he has a cabinet around 
 
 him and a coalition of 64 within the Knesset, 64 members, which gives him the majority, which -- and the cabinet still supports him apart from the 
 
 defense minister. And that went to a vote last week over the Philadelphi Corridor and it was passed with only one abstention and the defense 
 
 minister voting against it.
 
So, the numbers in government to keep Netanyahu in place to continue with his plan, it's all there. And the mechanism that would have to change that 
 
 would be members of his cabinet would have to leave or five members of the coalition would have to leave, then he wouldn't be in a majority. Then 
 
 constitutionally, it could be challenged and the government could be formed. Very difficult, mechanical -- political, mechanical things to do.
 
And the other alternative is what the protesters are proposing, which is to, as they say, shake the country, find a way to stop the country working 
 
 through the unions, if they can beat the courts. If the unions can, you know, shutter the airport, close the ports, close down the bus depots and 
 
 the transport network, reduce services at hospitals, all of that would put a very big significant pressure on the prime minister.
 
But at the moment his in a delicate and finely balanced political place, but it's one that's working in his favor.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and one could argue that the public protests and the public utility shutdowns, for example, play into Hamas' hands because 
 
 perhaps this is exactly what they want to see as well. It's difficult. Nic, good to have you with us. Thank you for your context. Nic Robertson there 
 
 in Tel Aviv.
 
Right now, to one of the deadliest missile attacks on Ukraine since Russia's full-scale invasion began now more than two years ago. 51 people 
 
 lost their lives after homes and a military educational facility were hit. 219 people have also been injured. 10 residential buildings on Poltava were 
 
 damaged. Ukraine's foreign minister seized on the attack to call for more western supplied air defense systems.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DMYTRO KULEBA, UKRAINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: Ballistic missiles, educational facility, the City of Poltava, a large city in Ukraine. I actually come 
 
 myself from Poltava region. My father is from there. So, this geography is very familiar to me. And we had a very detailed briefing. And the main 
 
 takeaway, the main lesson that I want everyone again to hear about, and we will not get tired of reminding of it, this is just another reason why 
 
 delivery of air defense systems to Ukraine must be expedited.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: And Fred Pleitgen is in Kyiv for us. Fred, the Ukrainians are being relatively cautious about providing details, but if we are talking 
 
 about ballistic missiles being used in this case, then the best defense that there is out there is a system like the Patriot Missile System that 
 
 has been provided by the United States, but what the Ukrainians are saying is we need more, more capacity like this.
 
Do you think an event like this moves the needle on further support, particularly two months out from a presidential election?
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN: Well, the Ukrainians certainly are hoping so. And you're absolutely right, they are saying that in the case of these ballistic 
 
 missiles that the Russians used, which apparently were Iskander ballistic missiles, that there are very few surface-to-air missile systems that can 
 
 actually take such missiles down.
 
But the patriot U.S.-made surface-to-air missile system is actually one of the ones that can and the Ukrainians for a very long time have been saying 
 
 that they need more of those systems across more regions of the country. Of course, Poltava is in the center of Ukraine, but also, closer to the border 
 
 with Russia than, for instance, in cities like Kyiv, where there are Patriot missile systems. And the Ukrainians say, yes, they need more of 
 
 them. It's unclear whether or not it could have prevented something like what we saw today.
 
But at the same time, certainly, they do say that it is urgent after the carnage that we saw in Poltava. Here's what we're learning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Parts of the military educational facility almost completely destroyed. Dozens killed here, the Ukrainians say, when two 
 
 Russian ballistic missiles struck, leaving those on the ground with no time to get to bomb shelters.
 
More than 200 were also wounded and a nearby hospital damaged. Ukraine's president, irate.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The Russian scum will undoubtedly be held accountable for this strike. And once again, 
 
 we urge everyone in the world who has the power to stop this terror, air defense systems and missiles are needed in Ukraine. Not in a warehouse 
 
 somewhere. Long-range strikes that can defend against Russian terror are needed now, not sometime later.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Russia's been accelerating its Ukraine's cities and infrastructure. A massive barrage aiming for the capital Kyiv early Monday, 
 
 just as children were gearing up for the first day of school after summer break. One of the places damaged, a management college.
 
ANASTASIYA, STUDENT (through translator): We got up and it had already started to boom. We ran out into the yard near the dormitory. We heard 
 
 something flying and something being shot down.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): On Sunday, more than 40 people injured after Russian airstrikes on the northeastern city of Kharkiv. Responders desperately 
 
 trying to save the victims.
 
There's an ambulance on the other side, the photographer says. We won't be able to carry him there, she answers.
 
While Ukraine's air defenses often take down Russian missiles, the consequences can be devastating when they don't. The strikes on Poltava 
 
 were one of the deadliest single attacks since the start of the war.
 
We were on hand when a ballistic missile annihilated a funeral wake in Eastern Ukraine in October of last year, killing 59 people. And 46 were 
 
 killed in Dnipro in January 2023 when a heavy cruise missile blew a giant hole into an apartment block.
 
PLEITGEN: The Ukrainians say the reason why the damage here is so extensive is that this building was hit with a cruise missile called the Kh-22. 
 
 That's designed to destroy aircraft carrier strike groups. And obviously, when it hit the building, it completely annihilated it, burying dozens of 
 
 people underneath.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Now, yet another mass casualty strike, leaving Ukraine's leadership angry and vowing revenge.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): And certainly, also this entire country very much in a state of shock after those massive attacks. And one of the things the 
 
 Ukrainians are also calling for, aside from additional Patriot surface-to- air missile systems, is for the U.S. to lift some of those restrictions on longer distance U.S.-made weapons, like, for instance, those ATACMS, 
 
 surface-to-surface missiles, to let the Ukrainians strike deeper into Russian territory to, at least in some cases, possibly hit those missile 
 
 launch sites before the Russians can even fire those missiles towards Ukrainian territory. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Fred Pleitgen there. Thank you. As always, good to have you with us.
 
All right. Turning now to a case involving millions of dollars, gifts, and gourmet duck. U.S. officials charging Linda Sun, a former aide to New York 
 
 Governor Kathy Hochul, with acting as an agent of the Chinese government. Sun is charged with a number of crimes, including visa fraud and money 
 
 laundering. Her husband has also been charged. Gloria Pazmino joins us now. Gloria, great to have you with us.
 
Some of these charges tie to a time when she was working in the governor's office and include restricting access to Taiwanese government officials, 
 
 changing messages related to the People's Party, pushing for a trip for the governor to China. My brain boggles. What more can you tell us?
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. Julia, is a fascinating case. And if these charges turn out to be true, this basically amounts to 
 
 the successful infiltration by a Chinese government agent at the highest levels of New York's government.
 
Not only did it happen under the current governor, Kathy Hochul, but also under the previous governor, Andrew Cuomo. This went on for at least a 
 
 decade as Linda Sun, the woman who has been charged, worked not just in the executive chamber, but also in other state agencies.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
Now, Linda Sun and her husband, Chris, who were charged just a short while ago, and prosecutors say that they benefited themselves. They took gifts. 
 
 They enriched themselves and their family, benefited their friends all in exchange for favors that ultimately benefited the Chinese Communist Party 
 
 and the Chinese government.
 
At one point, Linda Sun and her husband accepted tickets to special events. They helped friends travel. They supplied letters of invitation from the 
 
 governor, allowing officials from the Chinese government to travel here to the United States without the governor's knowledge.
 
At one point, in exchange for all of this access and this influence, Julia, she was sent a specially prepared Chinese assaulted duck to the home of her 
 
 parents. The duck was prepared by the personal chef of a Chinese government party official.
 
Now, according to the documents, she also used her post in government when Andrew Cuomo was governor to urge him to publicly thank Chinese officials 
 
 for a donation of medical equipment that they made at the height of the pandemic. Not only that Cuomo go on to thank them during the public 
 
 briefing, but he also issued a tweet writing out their names and praising them in public.
 
Now, Linda Sun and her husband appeared in court just a short while, as I said, they declared themselves not guilty. And their lawyers have said that 
 
 this is all the result of aggressive investigations by the federal prosecutors.
 
We did get a response from Hochul's office, who noted that as soon as they noticed the suspicious activity, they flagged it to the proper officials 
 
 and that her employment was terminated in March of 2023 after they discovered evidence of misconduct, they remedially reported her actions to 
 
 law enforcement and have since been assisting with the investigation.
 
Now, Julia, whether or not these charges turn out to be true, we will find out as the investigation and the trial process develops. But one thing is 
 
 clear, if the accusations are true, it certainly amounts to just a brazen infiltration of state government here in the United States. And not just 
 
 for one governor, but two governors throughout the span of 10 years, which raises serious questions, not just about how the governor's office hires 
 
 its people, but also, about whether or not the Communist Party might have more agents out there working on their behalf. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's certainly a colorful array of charges, let's call it that, and I think brazen will be the perfect word if indeed she proves and 
 
 they prove to be guilty of these charges. Gloria, good to have you with us. Gloria Pazmino there.
 
Now, to Venezuela, where the government has issued an arrest warrant for a former presidential candidate. It follows July's disputed election and a 
 
 crackdown on the nation's opposition movement. Multiple countries are condemning the move, including the United States, which is now, quote, 
 
 considering a range of options. The U.S. has already seized Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's airplane in the Dominican Republic, saying it 
 
 violated sanctions.
 
We're joined now by Stefano Pozzebon, who's in Bogota, Colombia for us. Stefano, we asked, you and I were talking about where this leads next. So, 
 
 what we're talking about now is an individual who's recognized by many in the International Community, including the United States, as the winner of 
 
 that election, now under the auspices of an arrest warrant within Venezuela. When was he last seen in public? Do we know where he is?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Well, that, Julia, is frankly the question that is on everyone's mind today in Venezuela or at least since, in the 
 
 last 24 hours, the government has published this arrest warrant.
 
If it would be arrested, Edmundo Gonzalez, it will be probably the most announced and most foreseen arrest in history because yesterday the 
 
 attorney general published not once, not twice, but three different versions of that arrest warrant to make sure that everybody could see the 
 
 pressure rising around Edmundo Gonzalez.
 
We haven't seen him, Gonzalez, since the early weeks of August, in the last few weeks, when people have been taking onto the streets in Caracas to 
 
 protest the results of that controversial election. We've seen the leader of the opposition, Maria Corina Machado, but not Gonzalez himself.
 
And today, his lawyer categorically denied that his client had been looking for asylum in a private embassy -- in a foreign embassy, for example.
 
CHATTERLEY: Stefano, thank you so much for that report there. Stefano Pozzebon in Bogota, Colombia. We'll continue to watch it.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
All right. Straight ahead, the first day of trading of September on Wall Street was not one to remember. Stocks taking a tumble across the board. 
 
 Our Richard Quest will join us to explain why.
 
Plus, cases of mpox rapidly rising in Africa. Yet, the wait for vaccines continues. I'll speak to the CEO of Bavarian Nordic, whose much needed 
 
 vaccine shipments are expected to arrive on the continent shortly. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." A post Labor Day thud on Wall Street topping today's Money Move. Investors heading back from their long 
 
 holiday weekend in selling mode, with the tech heavy NASDAQ down more than 3 percent in trade Tuesday. Shares of A.I. chip giant NVIDIA lost almost 10 
 
 percent of their value. Wall Street's fear gauged, the VIX spiking more than 30 percent, a sign perhaps of more volatility to come.
 
Let's bring in Richard Quest. Richard, payrolls weak. What's the Fed going to do? A bit of bad manufacturing data. What's the reason for a September 
 
 start slump?
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR-AT-LARGE AND CNN ANCHOR, QUEST MEANS BUSINESS: Oh, I don't know, Julia. I mean, you know, just frankly, write 
 
 anything on a piece of paper and then, you know, select it. The reality is there's no underlying crisis or reason. This is a classic repricing of 
 
 risk. Can the tech stocks like NVIDIA, can the market value those stocks as they have been, or are they overvalued either by earnings per share, future 
 
 orders, growth of their industry, whichever way -- whatever matrix you want to take, that's what's going on.
 
And you see that in where the money's going to instead. Yet, it's going to -- the flight to quality to a certain extent is to the usual value stocks. 
 
 If you look at the Dow 30, I mean, it was. P&amp;G, J&amp;J, it was Verizon. They were the ones that were up. So, this is not a crisis. This is what one 
 
 expects to see at a time when investors are saying, I don't think those shares are worth as much as they were because the economy is not doing as 
 
 well for them.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. What might look like a good sell one day looks like a pretty good buy the next day, Richard. I 
 
 never throw in those ratios because they're all nonsense where the tech stocks are concerned.
 
QUEST: Right. But if you take the long-term view that A.I. is going to come along in some shape or form and be profitable, like the internet did, and 
 
 that these companies in a 2, 5, 7, 10-year horizon are going to do well, then, yes, you are looking at -- I can't believe I'm about to say this 
 
 phrase, buy on the dips. If I say it quietly, no one will hear it. But on the tips. I mean, you are looking at an environment.
 
Now, but if you are -- see, I had a cab driver recently who has a meme stock with GameStop, and I could not get him to understand that all he's 
 
 doing is following other people's momentum. On this time, I think you can say, there might be value that in 15 years' time, 10 years' time, you'll 
 
 say, I'm glad I did that.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, momentum trades are great if you can time them correctly, Richard. But this one is a longer-term play, in which case a 3 percent drop 
 
 is not a dip. I need some sellotape because I just ripped my notes for the rest of the show apart. We agreed, unfortunately. We love arguing, but -- 
 
QUEST: Did you have a good summer?
 
CHATTERLEY: I loved it. You know, glowing. Happy to be back. Yes. A bit of excitement on the market. Phenomenal.
 
QUEST: Yes, good. Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Back to work. All right. Now, to the South China Sea, where Tropical Storm Yagi is expected to become a typhoon. Yagi has dumped rain 
 
 across the Philippines, where at least 13 deaths have been reported from the storm. It's set to hit Vietnam and Southern China in the coming days. 
 
 So, more on this, I'm joined by Chad Myers. Doesn't sound like good news, Chad. What more can you tell us about this?
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: This is set to be a very strong, dangerous, probably deadly storm for some people as it moves toward Hainan. This is 
 
 not that far, really, south of Hong Kong. And if you remember last week when we were talking about Shanshan, that thing didn't follow the track at 
 
 all. It turned left the entire time.
 
So, we're going to keep watching this because it will be a significant wind maker. It's already been a very big rainmaker, 400 millimeters. And for 
 
 those of you who don't do metric, that's 16 inches of rain just in the past couple of days with pictures like this. Watch the road kind of fall away. 
 
 That car just got through there.
 
There is the rainfall. Here it comes. Here's Haiku, Hainan, the island nation there, and then back up toward Hong Kong, you see how much rain is 
 
 going to be coming down through here. And even for Manila, there could be 125, 150 millimeters of additional rain on top of what they already had. 
 
 But then it becomes a wind event, and for Hainan, especially. 213 kilometers per hour. That's the official forecast. You could go plus or 
 
 minus 10 percent from there without a doubt. Every heavy rainfall on the island as well.
 
And then, not that far from Hanoi, it doesn't lose a lot of power. It'll still be 160 kilometer per hour as it makes its way toward Vietnam because 
 
 we're not going to see an awful lot of really degradation of the storm as it moves over the island and then continues there toward Hanoi.
 
Back toward the southwest of the United States. Man, has it been hot. Temperature is in the middle 40s. Just heat index everywhere here when 
 
 there's humidity. So, go back to Fahrenheit, 108 degrees for Vegas for tomorrow, 115 in Palm Springs. It's going to be hot in Phoenix itself, way 
 
 above where we should be, breaking the number of days above 100 now, and that's just going to continue. I see no end in sight above 100 which is 
 
 about 38 or so Celsius. Hot today, hot tomorrow, and it continues all the way through the rest of the week.
 
The cool down to the east is going to be pretty good. East half -- eastern half of the United States is going to be 10 degrees below normal. So, maybe 
 
 a first taste of fall or maybe some apple picking or something like that. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: The average of that, still hot, hot, hot. Chad, I think that's the point. Yes. Chad Myers, thank you. We'll be right back. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." Pope Francis has arrived in Indonesia for the beginning of the longest trip as head of the Catholic 
 
 Church. He kicked off a 12-day tour of Southeast Asia and South Pacific in Jakarta on Tuesday. The 13-hour flight from Rome is the furthest distance 
 
 the 87-year-old pontiff has traveled since his election.
 
The Catholic Church is looking to include more voices from the east. Francis has recently appointed cardinals from the Philippines and South 
 
 Korea to senior positions in the church's central administration. Christopher Lamb is traveling with the pope and has this report.
 
CHRISTOPHER LAMB, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Julia, Pope Francis was in good spirits on board the 13-and-a-half-hour flight from Jakarta to 
 
 Rome. He came to the back of the papal plane to greet us journalists who were traveling with him, meeting each of us individually. And thanking the 
 
 reporters for joining him on what will be the longest trip of his pontificate. In fact, it's one of the longest trips that any pope has 
 
 undertaken.
 
Now, while in Indonesia, interfaith dialogue is going to be top of the agenda. Indonesia is, of course, the world's most populous Muslim country. 
 
 And on Thursday, Francis will take part in an interfaith dialogue meeting with faith leaders at the Istiqlal Mosque, the largest mosque in Southeast 
 
 Asia. He will be pushing a message of interfaith cooperation, tolerance, and peace. And he's hoping that message will resonate across the region.
 
Now, Francis is 87 years old. He's had some health problems. He uses a wheelchair. But his determination to undergo this trip, which is going to 
 
 also include Papua New Guinea, East Timor, and Singapore, sends a message that Francis still has a lot of gas left in the tank. He still has messages 
 
 he wants to get across to the world today. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, the World Health Organization declared mpox a global health emergency last month, and yet, the wait to get vaccines to people in 
 
 need remains painfully slow. Mpox is a contagious viral infection. Symptoms include a painful rash, skin lesions, fever, and muscle aches, and in rare 
 
 cases, it can be fatal.
 
Africa has been the hardest hit. Nearly 4,000 new cases and more than 80 deaths have been reported in the past week alone on the continent, as 
 
 health officials there plead for more aggressive vaccine rollout. One of the companies ramping up production is Denmark-based Bavarian Nordic, a 
 
 global leader in smallpox and mpox vaccines.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
Its first shipment of vaccines is set to arrive in the Democratic Republic of Congo soon, and it says it's ready to produce more. Paul Chaplin, the 
 
 president and CEO of Bavarian Nordic spoke to me about some of the challenges and the promise of rolling out the vaccine worldwide.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAUL CHAPLIN, BAVARIAN NORDIC PRESIDENT AND CEO: It's been a very busy time. Obviously, we've had to change our focus from what we've been 
 
 manufacturing to switch to our mpox vaccine. And importantly, we've been working very closely with the International Community to really judge and 
 
 learn exactly what is required from us as one of the companies who has appropriate mpox vaccine.
 
CHATTERLEY: You've said, look, we can provide 2 million doses this year, then up to 10 million doses by the end of 2025. So, an additional eight. 
 
 Just based on what you're seeing, can I ask how much is already accounted for and allocated versus how much potentially we might need?
 
CHAPLIN: So, that 10 million really comes from a demand that's been driven by some of the who are estimating that at least 10 million by the end of 
 
 next year is going to be required to control the outbreak. We've already sold some doses and donated doses to this cause. And in fact, the first 
 
 doses of our vaccine will be arriving in the DRC later this week. And we hope, again, through dialogue with the International Community, that's just 
 
 the beginning and more and more doses can flow through the coming weeks and months.
 
CHATTERLEY: We've obviously had the situation that Sweden has raised the flag and said, look, they've identified cases and obviously, very minor at 
 
 this stage, but you're also facing the challenge that when the predominant level of demand is in poorer nations, and I believe you're charging around 
 
 what, $100 a dose for this, you don't have the financial offset of selling to richer nations as well. How do we fix that balance? How do you find that 
 
 balance of ensuring that the R&amp;D can continue and you can produce vaccines profitably, but at the same time, provide them where they're needed?
 
CHAPLIN: Well, I think you used the word balance and I think that's an appropriate way to look at it because we have to concentrate on what we're 
 
 good at, which is making high quality lifesaving vaccines. We need to work very closely with International Community to make sure that we provide 
 
 access to all those that need it. But while Bavaria Nordic can be part of the solution, we're not the sole solution. So, it's really the 
 
 International Community working together with industry like Bavaria Nordic that is going to solve this problem.
 
CHATTERLEY: What about manufacturing locally? We heard news this morning that you're potentially in talks with Aspen, which is an African drugmaker, 
 
 to, I believe, license the technology and manufacture in Africa itself. Is that -- can you give us more detail on what that will mean potentially if 
 
 that agreement is signed? Does that help bring costs down ultimately?
 
CHAPLIN: So, I think the immediate demand we can provide. However, none of us really know how this situation is going to evolve. Is it going to spread 
 
 more out of Africa or are more and more doses going to be needed to control the current outbreak?
 
So, we've said from the very beginning that we're willing, as we did in '22 and '23 outbreak to look to other manufacturers, maybe in Africa or on 
 
 other parts of the world where we can expand our manufacturing capabilities, increase the output that we have. And yes, potentially also 
 
 decrease the cogs -- or the cost of goods.
 
CHATTERLEY: Can I ask about testing for adolescents at the moment? The drug is only available, I believe, to adults. You're -- and have provided data 
 
 for testing for 12-to-17-year-olds. There's also arguably demand for those younger. How long do you think -- and I appreciate again, it's difficult 
 
 based on data and approvals, you could actually be treating younger people with this drug too.
 
CHAPLIN: Well, I really hope. We've now submitted data in 12-plus-year-olds to the European authorities. I'm really hopeful that within the coming 
 
 months that approval will come through so we can really expand not only adults, but down to 12-year-olds.
 
Together with other collaborators, we're starting a study in children in Africa, later this year. And hopefully, we can generate the necessary 
 
 safety data that will also allow us to expand. So, basically, everyone will have access. And this is really important because more than 70 percent of 
 
 the cases in Africa are in people younger than 18. So, it's really that population we need to be targeting.
 
CHATTERLEY: Burned in my memory is the damage, I think, that was done over vaccines during the COVID pandemic. And as we've said, it's not the same 
 
 thing, but the sensitivities, I think, exist of the way that governments behave, the CDCs respectively behave, the private sector behaves, and 
 
 obviously, those that are suffering as a result.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
Do you feel like you're getting that balance right? And you said it's not just one item-based solution, whether it's the private sector providing the 
 
 vaccines. What more do you need at this moment? And from whom?
 
CHAPLIN: Well, I mean, to get access into Africa, we really need the regulatory approvals. We've been working with both the WHO and national 
 
 bodies. There are some approvals in Africa. So, as I said, we're delivering doses already to the DRC this week. But it's relatively few African 
 
 countries that our vaccine can be rolled out in. So, that's the first regulatory support for the use of this vaccine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Right. We're sticking with health. Coming up after the break, around the world each year, around 1.5 million people die from blood loss. 
 
 Now, a U.S.-based firm has a gel-based solution to help stop the bleeding fast. We'll explain how it all works after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." From a gunshot wound to an accidental injury, severe blood loss can kill in a matter of minutes. Well, 
 
 now, a U.S. inventor has found a way to harness the power of algae to stop moderate to severe bleeding in seconds.
 
From his dorm room at New York University, Joe Landolina began work 14 years later, and his treatment, called Trauma Gel, has just received 
 
 approval for use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. His company already sells another product that works in a similar way on animals, which 
 
 has already been used in more than 45,000 veterinary procedures worldwide.
 
Landolina is the co-founder of Cressalon, a Brooklyn-based biotech firm, and he joins us now. Joe, fantastic to have you on the show. Just start by 
 
 explaining how the gel works in practice.
 
JOE LANDOLINA, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, CRESILON: Yes, of course, Julia. Thank you so much for having me. So, Trauma Gel is an algae-based gel that 
 
 instantly creates a mechanical barrier against bleeding. And so, if you inject the gel directly into a bullet wound, into a laceration, into a stab 
 
 injury, it nearly instantaneously creates a barrier against bleeding, allowing the patient to produce their own clot much quicker than with any 
 
 other products included packing that injury with gauze.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. So, that's the critical question for me now, because I've got advice from a couple of those that have worked in the medical 
 
 profession, have dealt with this kind of thing in the past, and one of their first questions was, how does this differ from any other hemostatic 
 
 powder or gel that's been used now for many years, if not decades?
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
What specifically is different about this product that's arguably better perhaps for EMTs that are addressing these challenges or the patients 
 
 themselves?
 
LANDOLINA: Sure. So, today, and what we call it in Brooklyn, is pressure and a prayer is the standard of care. Meaning that you have to painfully 
 
 pack the injury with gauze, which is very difficult in a bullet track, meaning it's very difficult to get the gauze all the way down to the source 
 
 of bleeding.
 
And so, this gel not only allows for a much faster delivery, meaning it can almost instantaneously be delivered, but it shortens that treatment time 
 
 from a minute to maybe five minutes, down to second, something less than 10 seconds.
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow. Just talk to me about how you've managed to get this approval then in terms of testing this product in the real world. Is that 
 
 how you've managed to do this? Because what you're saying is if we're talking about a gunshot wound, then we're talking arguably about a severe 
 
 level of blood loss.
 
LANDOLINA: Exactly. So, I founded Cresilon 14 years ago, and over the last 14 years, we took this concept from what was an idea in a dorm room to 
 
 today. Cresilon is the only aseptic fill and finish manufacturer in the five boroughs of New York.
 
And five years ago, Cresilon launched a product called VETIGEL, which has been saving pet lives around the world. And so, that product is available 
 
 in 30 countries. It's been used to save the lives of over 60,000 pets, ranging in procedures from brain and spine surgery into trauma care. And 
 
 so, we have a huge amount of experience in these types of procedures. But with Trauma Gel, this will be our first opportunity to exercise our mission 
 
 of saving lives into saving human lives.
 
CHATTERLEY: And what's the cost, Joe, per syringe, if we're talking in the sort of 30 milliliter case?
 
LANDOLINA: Sure. And so, while we very recently got approval, we haven't finalized our pricing. The idea is to make this competitive with other 
 
 solutions that are on the market. The idea for us, at least, is that if it isn't cost competitive, it won't be accessible to all those who need it. 
 
 And so, the idea is to make it accessible to EMS agencies, to first responders, to trauma hospitals, really anyone that can use this product to 
 
 save lives.
 
CHATTERLEY: Can you give us a hint?
 
LANDOLINA: So, it should be somewhere -- 
 
CHATTERLEY: I know it's early days. I'm sort of pushing.
 
LANDOLINA: It's difficult, but it should be somewhere in the $150 an application range.
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow. OK. I mean, it still feels relatively pricey. What about for use on the battlefield? I guess that's another example that stands out 
 
 to me. I know you're at least working with the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research to look at the possible capabilities of this. I'm sure the 
 
 Department of Defense are looking at this closely too. What progress there?
 
LANDOLINA: So, we've worked with the Department of Defense. So, we have a research partnership with Walter Reed that looks at traumatic brain injury, 
 
 and we've been working with them for a few years, developing the product to treat bullet injuries or shrapnel injuries to the brain. And we're looking 
 
 forward to being able to pilot this with the United States Army to hopefully help save soldier lives on the battlefield very soon.
 
CHATTERLEY: Joe, very quickly, what made you come up with this idea? I mean, I mentioned that you were you -- you did and you said, I've been 
 
 working on this for 14 years, but you're in your college dorm room working on this. Why? What made you think that this is some problem that I want to 
 
 try and fix just as an entrepreneur?
 
LANDOLINA: When I was a kid, I always wanted to become a doctor. And I was lucky, I grew up on a vineyard. My grandfather was a winemaker. And it gave 
 
 me access to a lab from a very young age. And I was playing around with algae trying to do something completely different. And one day, I realized 
 
 that this substance that I made would stick to my skin. It wouldn't let go until I wanted to.
 
And I had this idea, which was what if you could take that material and put it into a bullet wound, at least to transport a patient from point A to 
 
 point B. And so, with that, that sparked the idea for Trauma Gel, and we entered that into NYU's business plan competition, where, at that time, I 
 
 was an engineering student and Cresilon was born out of that competition.
 
CHATTERLEY: That's innovation and an entrepreneur in practice. Joe, great to chat to you. Keep in touch, please. And we'll track your progress. Joe 
 
 Landolina there, co-founder of Cresilon. Thank you.
 
All right. coming up after the break, the latest from the U.S. Open as American Emma Navarro reaches her first Grand Slam semifinal.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." A big day for American tennis players at the U.S. Open. Taylor Fritz reached his first Grand Slam 
 
 semifinal in pretty gripping fashion before a home crowd in New York. Fritz beat the number four seed Alexander Zverev, three sets to one. This was the 
 
 fifth time he's reached the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam tournament. He's now one step closer to winning one in his own nation. And not to be 
 
 outdone, American Emma Navarro advanced to her first semifinal. She beat Spaniard Paula Badosa in straight sets.
 
Patrick Snell joins us now. Patrick loved tennis, watched a woeful lack of it actually so far, but it is all about the Americans right now.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: Doing superbly well, yes. We'll get on to Taylor Fritz in just a moment. He will be absolutely desperate to try and 
 
 go all the way at this year's U.S. Open, but so too will the young American Emma Navarro who continues to break through so impressively this calendar 
 
 year.
 
The 23-year-old, she's the daughter of the U.S. billionaire Ben Navarro, overcoming compatriot and defending champion, you'll recall, Coco Gauff in 
 
 the previous round. Well, she's now gone and booked a spot in the first quarterfinal at this year's U.S. Open.
 
Navarro taking care of business against Badosa, as you mentioned, straight sets. At one point though, she was left with a real mountain to climb in 
 
 the second after going a double breakdown, but rallying superbly to stun her opponent from Spain and reach the last eight. Just another great win 
 
 for Navarro.
 
You may recall at the Aussie Open earlier this year, we saw her get to the third round at a slam for the very first time. She then gets to the fourth 
 
 round at the French. I think you could see where this is going, because she then makes her first Grand Slam quarterfinal, that was at Wimbledon in 
 
 London and now, the semis. Impressive stuff indeed. Wonderful improvement. Though, Navarro herself is not too surprised.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EMMA NAVARRO, AMERICAN 23-YEAR-OLD BEAT PAULA BADOSA IN STRAIGHT SETS: And when I look at my physical ability and my mental ability in this sport, 
 
 it's not surprising. And I feel, you know, just more comfortable now with having good results and having success. And yes, I think I've had periods 
 
 of both surprise and not surprised. But, you know, right now, I think I'm ready to be in this position.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL: And just a short while ago on this Tuesday here in the U.S. American star, Taylor Fritz, earning his first spot in the semis of a major, beating 
 
 Zverev in four, a really feisty encounter this one. Fritz taking his game to new heights when it mattered most. He was really fired up as well when 
 
 he clinched the win.
 
Taylor Fritz looking to become the first American male to win the U.S. Open since Andy Roddick back in 2003. That's over two decades ago. Some big 
 
 matches tonight to keep an eye on (INAUDIBLE) beaten finalist Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus. She'll be the favorite heading into her quarterfinal 
 
 against the Chinese player, Qinwen Zhen, who's really a really impactful player. Just 21 years of age. She got to the final of the Australian Open 
 
 early this year in Melbourne, where she lost to guess who? Yes, Aryna Sabalenka. So, that match has added spice.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
And Frances Tiafoe on the men's side of things, another American player. He faces the Bulgarian Grigor Dimitrov. If Francis can win that one, he'll 
 
 face, guess who, Julia, in the semis? That would be Mr. Taylor Fritz. It's all hotting up here at the U.S. Open. Sorry, there at the U.S. Open. Well, 
 
 I'm in Atlanta.
 
CHATTERLEY: It's very close to me. That's my evening taken care of, Patrick. Thank you so much for that.
 
SNELL: Yes. Enjoy.
 
CHATTERLEY: Patrick Snell there. And finally, on "First Move," staying with tennis, and while strawberries and cream go hand in hand with Wimbledon, it 
 
 seems a signature cocktail called the Honey Deuce is a must have accompaniment at the U.S. Open here in New York.
 
Sales of the mix of vodka, lemonade, raspberry liqueur and melon balls on course to surpass the $10 million mark during the tournament. I'm stumbling 
 
 over my words. I'm shocked. That would be more than covering the $3.6 million in prize money heading to both the male and female singles winners 
 
 at $23 per drink. It seems the official vodka sponsor Grey Goose will really aced it.
 
I think my break point would be two of those. No, wouldn't it? Who wrote that? One inhalation and I'd be gone. I'm just going to take the melon 
 
 balls.
 
Thank you very much. That just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow. Maybe.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END