Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Hunter Biden Found Guilty On All Counts In Gun Case. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired June 11, 2024 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Outside the courthouse in Wilmington, Delaware. What else are you learning, Paula?
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: So, Wolf, I'm reading notes from our colleagues who are inside the courthouse. Of course, there are no cameras in there. So, this is how we've been getting information.
 
And this is some information about what happened after the verdict. We're told that Hunter gave kisses and hugs to family members and friends who were in the courtroom. They described it as being almost like a receiving line as he exited after the guilty verdict was read.
 
Now, this is similar to what we've seen most days. Hunter goes out of his way during breaks to hug and to kiss people who are there to support him. Again, it's members of his family, friends of the family, and also a group of religious leaders who have shown up to show their support.
 
They said that his friends and family -- his longtime friend and lawyer who I mentioned before, Kevin Morris, he walked out with his arms crossed. Some of the supporters who had been there looked stunned. As I said, I've been told that there was great optimism in Hunter Biden's camp about there maybe being a hung jury.
 
They were hoping that some of the jurors would view this as a politically motivated prosecution or something that it was just inherently unfair. And they were hoping that maybe they could get across to one juror and possibly get a hung jury, which is of course not what happened.
 
Now, as we reported earlier, the First Lady Dr. Jill Biden, while she has been here for most days of the trial, she missed the verdict. It all happened very quickly. She was nearby. But she entered the courtroom seven minutes after the verdict was read.
 
We're told that Hunter and his attorneys were huddled at this time. And she walked into the courtroom, and that she did not -- did not move. Her glands off of her stepson and his lawyers as they huddled likely talking about the next steps.
 
Now it's unclear right now if Hunter Biden will issue a statement -- if he'll issue a written statement. I am told now that we should expect that Hunter Biden will issue a written statement about this verdict. We do not expect him to speak.
 
And at this point, it's unclear if anyone from the Special Counsel's Office will address reporters. But again, a historic moment here in Wilmington. Wolf?
 
BLITZER: Historic indeed. All right. Paula, we'll get back to you. I know you continuously getting more information from our reporters inside as well. So, stand by. We'll get back to you.
 
I want to get some more legal analysis right now. Joey Jackson is joining us from New York. Joey, what's your reaction? It was a pretty quick decision by these 12 members of the jury.
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, Wolf, if it was. Good morning to you. And that is because it was a pretty straightforward case. Obviously, the jury having to make three different decisions.
 
Number one, did you lie to a licensed firearm dealer? They're concluding, the jury, that is yes. Number two, did you lie on the form with respect to your addiction? The jury concluded yes. And number three, as it relates to not only the lie and everything else, but the legality of possession, they said, yes.
 
I did think, Wolf, if ever there was a case regarding jury nullification that this would be it. What I mean is, there are times when a jury may assess a case and because the case hits home with them. We know this was a jury that consisted of people who had experience family members and others to the issue of addiction, to the issue of alcoholism, right, not specifically related to this case here. But of course, just knowing what it does to people and how it makes people act, and how it alters behavior.
 
Remember, critical to the defense was really talking about the issue of whether he was addicted at the time. Talking about whether he was in denial with regard to having the mental state required to knowingly execute a form falsely. And so, I did think perhaps if there was a case that would require right jury nullification, a jury saying he's guilty, but we're going to give him a pass. This may be the case. The jury did not do that.
 
The other thing, Wolf, that's important is I think it's very much a timing issue now. We heard Paula Reid speak to the issue you know, of a potential commutation. What does that mean? We know the president has ruled out a pardon, excusing it completely.
 
The issue with commutation is if there is a sentence imposed, then, would the president -- now president consider right, excusing that sentence. And the timing I speak to is as follows. Right now, upon a conviction, it now goes to probation.
 
Probation assesses. It's called pretrial services at the federal level. What they do is we see the first family or at least the -- his wife, that is Joe Biden's -- and excuse me, Hunter Biden's. And of course, his mom walking out of the courtroom.
 
At pretrial services, what they do is they prepare a probation report. They dive into Hunter Biden. His prior history. What it is that he's done in his life?
 
They make a recommendation for probation on sentencing. Defense counsel submits documentation of what the appropriate sentence should be including letters of recommendation. The prosecutors do -- the judge then pronounces the sentence.
 
That's a few months away. So, let's just say, for example, Wolf, that he gets sentenced in October -- September. And then is given a date to report, if right, because we know that this is a case where he doesn't have to go to prison. But if he's sentenced to prison, that's timing.
 
Last and final point, Wolf. We know he's facing the tax charges, of course in September in California. That will be critical to timing. Also, if Joe Biden -- Joe Biden wins the presidency and of course, we're talking about a lot of assumptions, his son is convicted of that, then you face similar timing questions. Will he pardon in that case? Will he commute on that case?
 <br>[11:35:09]
 
So, if the judge puts sentencing over -- if there's a conviction, what right again, speculating at this point, if it's after the time that Joe Biden you know, would potentially if he does not get reelected, leave office, I'm looking for all of those things to see whether or not the president -- current president would have the ability to issue a commutation or pardoned with respect to the other case. If he gets reelected, nothing to see here. He doesn't. It's a problem. And that's why the timing component is critical.
 
BLITZER: Very critical, indeed. And we were showing our viewers live pictures of Hunter Biden leaving the court and heading -- getting into a vehicle and leaving the area. So clearly, he's not being detained right now awaiting sentencing.
 
Paula Reid is still with us. Joey, I'm going to get back to you. I've got some legal questions.
 
But Paula, I know you're getting more information. What are you learning?
 
REID: That's right. Again, this flow of information coming from our reporters inside the courthouse. We've learned that right now, Hunter Biden does not have a specific sentencing date set. Now, usually, sentencing happens about 120 days after a verdict. So, it appears that depending on the timing of his Los Angeles trial, the sentencing date would likely come before the November election.
 
Now, as I said before, the president has said he would not pardon his son. He will respect the outcome of this process. He would technically have the option to commute his son's sentence depending on what it is.
 
But at this point, he said he would not offer a pardon. Though I don't think he was asked specifically about computations. But as of now, no sentencing date for the president's son, while the upper range for sentences for this particular kind of crime. Someone could face decades in prison. As I said before, sentencing is more of an art than it is a science. He is a first-time offender, and it is not expected that he would face anywhere near that amount of prison time.
 
As you can probably hear behind me, there is at least one protester who has been here all day. Questionable about whether he should be shouting outside a federal courthouse when there was a jury deliberating earlier, but he has been here. But we only see, again, about one protester here. Otherwise, it's a pretty calm scene.
 
The First Lady, Hunter Biden, his attorneys just left the courthouse. And it looks like they will not be back here for at least another 120 days.
 
BLITZER: Paula, you're our Chief Legal Affairs Correspondent, so walk us through the president of the United States says he won't pardon his son. He'll abide by whatever the verdict is. But there was no question to him about commuting the sentence.
 
In other words, let's say it gets a few years potentially in jail, the president could commute it. Reduced that sentence. That's how -- that would be his right as a President of the United States, right? It's a federal -- a federal trial.
 
REID: Yes, exactly, as a federal trial. So, state-level offenses, convictions, and sentences are outside the power of the president of the United States. As part of why former President Trump's conviction in New York was especially significant because it is outside the pardon power either. His future pardon power that of any other president.
 
But yes, with this case, President Biden would have the option to pardon his son. He said he won't do that. Commuting his sentence would also be an option on the table. And certainly, a historic decision for the president of the United States to decide if they want to use that power to absolve their child of whatever sentence that Hunter Biden ultimately receives.
 
But at this point, it's unclear what sentence he will get. And this is only the first of two federal cases he will be facing. The next one again in September. That is related to tax charges.
 
That is going to go on much longer. It'll be closer to four to six weeks. And likely that sentence will not come probably if he is convicted -- if he is convicted until the following year. So, again, it's going to be -- it's going to be a difficult year for the Biden family going forward given Hunter Biden's continued legal problems in the wake of this conviction.
 
Now, as you might be able to hear, there is some sort of confrontation happening here. So, I'm going to toss it back to you, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: All right, Paula, stand by. We'll get back to you as well. Excellent reporting from our Paula Reid. Our Chief Legal Affairs Correspondent. Thank you very much. Kristen Holmes is joining us right now. Kristen, I know you're covering the Trump campaign. Are you getting a reaction?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So, we did get a statement from the campaign, which was then retracted because Donald Trump himself, we are told, is going to weigh in on Truth Social. So, something that we are going to be watching very carefully here obviously, knowing that the campaign wants to get ahead of the former president himself since he likes to weigh in.
 
Now, one thing I will note is that this verdict is likely to take some of the wind out of their sails when it comes to talking about the Justice Department in general and how it is rigged, how Donald Trump's case itself was political persecution particularly now that Hunter Biden was found guilty. Now, that's not going to change anything that Donald Trump is likely to say. He will say that he was never going to get a fair trial and that Hunter Biden should have been charged with more crimes, etcetera, etcetera.
 
This is just how Donald Trump paints almost everything as though he is the victim. But, of course, we will wait ourselves to see what exactly Donald Trump says and weigh in.
 <br>[11:40:08]
 
I will say one thing that is very interesting here. While Donald Trump has not seemed sympathetic at all about Hunter Biden's addiction issues, he himself has come from a family that had addiction issues and has talked openly about it. So, interesting there that he has -- one of the things we talked about is how many Americans find this case to be sympathetic in some ways. Donald Trump himself does not seem to be one of them.
 
BLITZER: Important point as well. Kristen, thank you very much.
 
Shermichael Singleton is with us as well. Kate Bedingfield is with us. What's your reaction to it?
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: You know, Wolf, I think this case has some very serious constitutional issues here. I mean, in 2023, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, and Paula read the quote. Anyone who is "an unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance cannot legally possess a firearm."
 
The Fifth Circuit said, "You cannot ban gun possession for a person who has a pattern of drug use." And they base that based off of the 2022 decision from the Supreme Court, which said gun restrictions must be consistent with the nation's historical tradition of firearm regulation.
 
And so, I think Hunter Biden's attorneys are going to have a very solid case and intemperate jumping on this on appeals because the Supreme Court made it very clear that you have to look at the historical context before making these types of decisions. And so, I think the question for many Americans will be if someone who's dealt with addiction, should they not have the ability to protect themselves? And I think most people would probably say yes. And here we are, years later, Hunter is still dealing with those things.
 
But from our knowledge, he's not addicted anymore in terms of being an active user. So, should he not be able to protect himself by being the first child of the President of the United States? Our politics may differ here, Wolf. But constitutionally, he should be able to keep and bear arms.
 
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, I think hearing this argument from Shermichael's further evidence, the politics of this are not going to be clean for Donald Trump and for the Republicans. In part, because you have conservative folks who are advocating for gun ownership, who are saying that the substance of this case, as many legal experts have said is then. But also, you have somebody here who has been very vocal and eloquent about his struggles with addiction, in Hunter.
 
And I can tell you from the campaign in 2020, that you know, moments where Joe Biden, you know, defended his son from attacks by Donald Trump about his addiction and things that he had done while he was under the influence, you know, Joe Biden would look at the camera and say, I love my son. And everybody in this country can relate to having somebody in their family that they love struggling with addiction. And the challenge that that puts your family through.
 
And I'll tell you, those were the things that people remembered from the debates in 2020 were Joe Biden -- were you know, that was -- it was Joe Biden making that argument. So, you know, the idea -- and then add on to that, you know the point that was just made earlier that this really undermines the argument that Trump's been making about Joe Biden weaponizing the justice system. So, you know, I think the politics of this are not going to be as beneficial to Trump and Republicans. And maybe that's why the Trump campaign is struggling to get a statement out because they're not quite sure what to say.
 
BLITZER: What do you think?
 
TIM PARLATORE, CNN LEGAL COMMENTATOR: You know, I'm not going to comment on the politics of it. But I will say that you know, we're talking about you know, something with up to 25 years in jail. But -- 
 
BLITZER: Potentially.
 
Exactly, potentially. And that's not the reality of it. Because in the federal system, you have the statutory maximum, but then you have the U.S. sentencing guidelines.
 
The sentencing guidelines are a very complicated set of mathematical calculations. I just did a very brief calculation on this, where you know, it's a base-level offense 14. But then you take eight points off if it was possessed for sporting or collection purposes and was not unlawfully discharged, or otherwise unlawfully used. The sentencing guidelines range is going to recommend zero to six months in jail.
 
So, chances are, Hunter is going to get probation. And I think that the president is going to be very hard-pressed to commute that sentence if he gets probation. Because if he commutes it, then he also takes away his right to appeal.
 
And so, I think that it's a very interesting thing where he is going to appeal. It's going to be very fascinating to watch the appeal because it brings you know, unlikely partners together. Because you're not only going to have you know Hunter Biden, you're going to have the NRA, you know, filing amicus briefs. And quite frankly, because it's an issue of drug use and Second Amendment rights, you're going to have amicus briefs from the cannabis industry.
 
And a lot of other you know, very unlikely bedfellows you're going to get together on this. I think it's something that he is almost certainly not going to be seeing the inside of a jail cell, but it is going to have some very interesting ramifications going forward.
 
BLITZER: Jamie, go ahead.
 
JAMIE GANGEL, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. I just wanted to say before dismissing the party -- the party's, the judge -- our reporters in the courtroom are reporting that the judge told Hunter Biden's team that sentencing is usually set for 120 days after the verdict. And I point that out because that would mean that sentencing would be in mid-October right before election.
 <br>[11:45:10]
 
But to Tim's point, if this is likely to be probation, I think that is going to happen -- you know, it's going to lessen the political impact of you're not going to have the son of a president likely going to prison. One other point I wanted to make. We've talked a lot about how some of these jurors had experience in their families with addiction.
 
And I just want to say that may make you sympathetic. It may also make you realistic about what someone's behavior is like when they're addicts. Just they came to this verdict very quickly.
 
BLITZER: Two hours of deliberations today.
 
GANGEL: Right.
 
BLITZER: One hour yesterday. Three hours, and they reached a unanimous decision guilty on all three counts.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Yes. I mean, look, it was -- I think it was pretty clear that the jury didn't have a lot of hesitation here. And I think Jamie's point is, right. I mean, you have -- if you have experience in your family with addiction, sometimes that makes you sympathetic, sometimes that can make you clear eyed, and realistic. And so, I think that that was probably at play here.
 
This was a case where you know, the jury was obviously asked to consider the law as all juries are. But this is the kind of case that also has emotional resonance.
 
And I think that that was probably significant for the jury, too. But, you know, so in thinking about the politics of it -- again, it's something that that has an emotional resonance that people you know connect to. And so, I think it will be -- you know, I certainly would not expect.
 
No surprise here. I would not expect the Biden campaign to make this a centerpiece of their message. But I do think for people who have this struggle in their family seeing this play out in this way, I think gives them a link to the Biden family in a way that I think is powerful.
 
BLITZER: Paula Reid is over at the courthouse in Wilmington, Delaware. We're getting more information. What else are you learning, Paula?
 
REID: Yes. I know, there are a lot of questions about the protesters that you could hear behind me in our last hit. We looked at the situation. There were two anti-Biden protesters who have been here for most of the day.
 
One has a whiteboard with writing -- anti-Biden writing. The other has a poster. And he is using actually like a coffee cup as a megaphone and has been for most of the day.
 
Some folks just walking down the street here in Wilmington. At least two of them stopped to engage the protesters. So, that was the loud yelling that you heard for a period of time there. Aside from these four individuals exchanging their views loudly, it's pretty calm here.
 
You know, the assembled media is of course here, but the First Lady, Hunter Biden, his attorneys, they recently exited the courthouse. And otherwise, it's pretty, pretty peaceful here following this historic verdict.
 
BLITZER: Paula, stand by. We're going to get back to you soon. We continue to monitor the breaking news. Hunter Biden is guilty on all three counts. We're watching all this very closely.
 
I want to get some more legal analysis right now. Joining us are former Federal Prosecutor Alyse Adamson and white-collar defense attorney Seth Berenzweig. Alyse, give me your reaction to this guilty verdict, all three counts?
 
ALYSE ADAMSON, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: Yes. Wolf, I'm not surprised at all. I'm also not surprised at the speed in which the -- which the jury returned the verdict.
 
As I've said before, the government really had a mountain of evidence in this case. So, to me, it wasn't a could they bring this case? It was more of a should they bring this case?
 
I've heard a lot of the other panelists talking about how the defense really tried to appeal to the sympathy of the jury. That was a lot of their closing argument. Of course, some of it was also on the men -- the requisite mens rea. The knowing element did Hunter Biden appreciate that he was addicted at the time he filled out the forms and possessed the firearm.
 
But a lot of the defense strategy was also kind of built around the sympathy factor hoping for a hung, hoping for that nullification. That did not happen here. The jury did as they were instructed. They took the facts, they applied it to the law, and they rendered a just verdict, which was guilty. So, not surprised here. But I think there are real questions as to whether these cases should be brought.
 
And then to the other panelists' point. I think there are serious constitutional questions within this case, which, as a defense attorney, would be one of the reasons I would have elected to go to trial to preserve those appellate rights and have the Supreme Court weigh in. I think, one hundred percent we can expect to see -- well, not one hundred percent. I never say one hundred percent. But maybe I'd -- that 99 percent assure that the Supreme Court will ultimately take up this case because I think in light of throwing, this statute does need to be interpreted by the High Court.
 
BLITZER: Well, let me get thoughts from Seth Berenzweig, a white- collar defense attorney. What do you think?
 
SETH BERENZWEIG, WHITE COLLAR DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, the weight of evidence was just overwhelming. So, I'm not surprised either as well as the point that it was really just three hours of deliberation. And not only was the overall balance and weight of evidence overwhelming, but the prosecution did a very good job coloring in on the October 2018 date of the signature of the form that really cuts to the heart of the issue in this case.
 <br>[11:50:14]
 
So, for example. Just a couple of weeks before Hunter Biden signed the form, Zoe Kestan, his girlfriend from New York, testified that she saw him doing drugs just shortly before the form was signed. Just a day or two after the form was signed, Hallie Biden testified that she saw a text from Hunter stating that he was waiting to meet his dealer, Mookie, to get more drugs. And there was another text that demonstrated that the following day, it appeared that he was laying on top of his car in Wilmington, Delaware doing drugs.
 
So, on the one hand, I think the jury was a good jury pool. They really drew a good jury in this case because there was some sympathy based upon their family factors. But when you look at the weight and the coloring of the evidence, from a timing perspective, it is something that really drives to a result that is not surprising.
 
I'll just add one additional point with respect to the perspectives on appeal. I agree that the Fifth Circuit decision from last summer is something that will definitely get teed up on appeal. But let's also keep in mind that there's a significant issue with respect to the evidence.
 
The defense tried to call an expert witness to testify with respect to the state of mind, how people who are addicts sometimes have a very difficult framework in terms of determining and appreciating whether or not they're current users or addicts. When someone tries to offer expert witness testimony in a case like this, the court usually deems it to go to the weight rather than the admissibility of the evidence. It was surprising that that evidence was rejected. That will also be a very significant issue that goes upstairs on appeal as this verdict gets appealed by the defense team.
 
BLITZER: All right. I want you two guys to stand by. Seth Berenzweig and Alyse Adamson. We'll continue our legal analysis of this historic moment. First time in American history, a child of a sitting president of the United States has now been convicted on three counts -- guilty on all three counts. We're watching all of this very closely.
 
Let's go back to the White House. Arlette Saenz is getting more reaction over there. What are you learning, Arlette?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Wolf, we're still waiting to hear whether President Biden will react directly to this latest news that his son Hunter Biden -- his only living son has been convicted on all three federal gun charges. Ahead of the trial, President Biden had released a statement simply expressing his side as a father. Saying that he loved and supported his son Hunter, noting his struggles with addiction.
 
We saw First Lady Jill Biden has been up in Wilmington for much of the past week, even jetting back and forth between Wilmington and France just at the end of last week to be there on hand for the trial. You could see her walking out of the courtroom hand in hand with her son Hunter Biden.
 
I had been told that there was no question for the first lady. She wanted to be there on scene at the trial to support her son. She arrived just a few minutes after the verdict had been read. This certainly will be a painful moment for the Biden family as they really have been dealing with a lot of the fallout of Hunter's addiction issues over the course of the past few years.
 
You heard the very sordid details aired -- reared in this court. A trial the First Lady on hands listening to those audio clips of Hunter Biden recounting his own struggles, hearing her granddaughter Naomi Biden on the stand. So, we will see how the Biden family will react today.
 
Now, I will note that President Biden remains here in Washington. He is currently at the White House a bit later this afternoon around 1:30. He's actually supposed to be speaking at an event for every town for gun safety.
 
He will be there to tout some of the policies that his administration has put in place to try to curb gun violence in this country. So, we will still wait to see whether the White House -- whether President Biden will react directly to this verdict, found -- that has found Hunter Biden, their only living son, guilty. Really capping off a very emotional and turbulent period for the Biden family over the course of the past few years.
 
BLITZER: I checked this morning, Arlette. There are -- there's also a scheduled what 2:30 White House press briefing with the Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre. Is that right?
 
SAENZ: Yes. That is something that is currently on the books. So, White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be briefing the press at 2:30. And I will also note that President Biden just last week had been asked whether he would accept the results of this trial. He said in that interview with ABC News that he would accept the results of the trial. And also ruled out the possibility that he would pardon his son.
 
As Paula has been noting, there is still the question of whether he might commute any eventual sentence. So, we will see how the White House might respond to that question today. And other matters relating to Hunter Biden how they believe this could play into the campaign going forward.
 <br>[11:55:05]
 
But the Bidens themselves, they do release a statement likely would be sticking to the love and support that they have offered Hunter before this case -- when other trials had a -- have arisen as they just tried to show that they are approaching this from a family perspective.
 
BLITZER: A family perspective. Obviously, a very distraught family right now. All right. Thank you very much. Our Arlette Saenz at the White House. We'll of course continue to monitor any White House reaction from the president or from other officials at the White House as the day continues.
 
Evan Osnos is still with us. The Biden biographer. Evan, I know you've been thinking about all of the dramatic developments that have unfolded over the past you know, what, 20 minutes or half an hour or so. Give us your thoughts.
 
EVAN OSNOS, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: You know, it's really -- if you step back for a second, Wolf, and consider the pressures that are bearing down on this president, they're quite extraordinary. I mean, at a moment when you have an immensely divided electorate, where you're running against the person who you beat in the last election, who of course, also tried to cling to that office. And now you have a family drama that is really like nothing that a president has ever contended with, particularly at a time when they're dealing with this reelection campaign.
 
So, 120 days from now. We'll put it in October when we're likely to find out more about the sentence that Hunter Biden will face. And in the meantime, Joe Biden is going to be out in front of the public making decisions all the time about what he will and will not say about this case.
 
He has been so far, vigilant not to weigh in when this was a live matter. But I think one of the things that is a question is how he will talk about addiction. Whether that question is posed to him in the months ahead.
 
Now, there have been people in the addiction community that have said, we wonder if he will talk about addiction in the way that he has talked about cancer. Which of course, took the life of his son, Beau Biden. And there may be a way that this is an -- a way for him to talk about his family, his life, the things that he has been through. And yet not also talking about the federal case because he has been vigilant about saying that he would not pardon his son. And in its own way, has been signaling that nobody is above the law. And we saw that today.
 
BLITZER: And you've reported on President Biden now for years, and you wrote an excellent biography of his life. Give us your thoughts, Evan, how he's dealing with this. He lost Beau Biden, his older son, and now his younger son is potentially facing some jail time even. We don't know if that's going to happen. But convicted on these three counts.
 
OSNOS: Yes. It's really a kind of agony that you don't often see, frankly, at the top of our political system. Many of the people who get into these jobs have kind of insulated themselves or they've been fortunate for one fortunate job and family experience after another. I remember one of Joe Biden's closest advisers saying to me at one point, if you ask me who the luckiest person I know is it's Joe Biden. If you ask me who the unluckiest person I know is it's Joe Biden.
 
And this biography, this extraordinary life -- this public life of this family, which began a half-century ago, after all, with the car accident that killed his late wife and his daughter, injured his two sons, you now fast forward all the way to today, and this really dramatic and ultimately, painful process continues. But Joe Biden's theory has always been the same, which is that you cannot ever take anything for granted and that you have one option. And you will hear him say this a lot, I'm sure in the weeks and months ahead, which is that when life knocks you down, you get up.
 
And that has been a sustaining concept for him politically and personally. During the COVID pandemic, he projected that idea to the American public. And I think it has been one of the ways that he doesn't ever say explicitly but does connect him to Americans who are going through challenges and suffering of their own.
 
BLITZER: Do you want to give us your thoughts, Evan, on how you think, come on -- come up -- coming up at the Democratic Convention in Chicago over the summer? How the president is -- if he's going to even speak about any of this publicly?
 
OSNOS: Well, one thing we know, Wolf, is that he has throughout this process only held his son more tightly to the family. You know, there has been obvious political pressure. People whispering maybe it would be more convenient for the president not to have his son out front and center when he's facing these kinds of charges.
 
But the family's view has been no, we are close to him. And you saw that very much during the trial itself with Jill Biden attending. Other members of the family there, his daughter Naomi, speaking up on his behalf.
 
So, what he says about the case, I wouldn't expect him to be saying much about the case itself. What you will expect -- I do expect him to say is as he said in a statement recently, had boundless love for my son even though I am also a president.
 <br>[12:00:12]
 
BLITZER: Yes. They were enormous responsibilities, not only as president but as a father as well. Evan Osnos, thank you very, very much for your analysis. Appreciate it very much.
 
And to our viewers, thanks very much for joining me here on the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington. And I'll of course be back later tonight 6:00 p.m. Eastern in "THE SITUATION ROOM." Tomorrow, I'll be back at 11:00 a.m. in the CNN NEWSROOM.
 
Our special coverage of this historic verdict continues on "INSIDE POLITICS" with Manu Raju. That's coming up next.