Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: School Shooter's Parents Face Victims, Families at Sentencing. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired April 09, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:48]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  You are in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington. Thanks very much for joining us. 
 
And we begin with breaking news. The sentencing hearing for the parents of Michigan school shooter Ethan Crumbley. But before they learn their fate, they must also face their son's victims and their families. 
 
James and Jennifer Crumbley were both found guilty of four counts of involuntary manslaughter after their teenage son murdered four of his classmates back in 2021. This is a unique case, with the Crumbleys being the first parents to be held responsible for a school shooting committed by their child. 
 
CNN's Jean Casarez has been covering this story from the very beginning. She's joining us right now live. 
 
Jean, what's happening in court right now? 
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, right now the victim impact statements have just begun in this precedent-setting sentencing, prosecution asking for 15 years, the defense asking for far, far less, 2.5 to maybe a little less than five. 
 
But the person speaking now, Madisyn Baldwin mother, Nicole Beausoleil. She is talking about her daughter, who was not quite just about to graduate from Oxford High School when she was gunned down in November of 2021. 
 
NICOLE BEAUSOLEIL, MOTHER OF SHOOTING VICTIM:  Madisyn, she was a kind soul. She always had a smile on her face. She lit up the room when she walked in. Her laugh, I could listen to all day. It was infectious. 
 
Her big sister skills were undeniable, and she took that role very seriously. Madisyn was smart, funny, loving, passionate, determined, and genuine. Her expectations were high. And, at times, we needed to let her fall. She needed to be reminded that not everything is perfect, even if she wanted it to be. 
 
Madisyn had an influence that most never achieved. Sometimes, I would listen to a poem she wrote or watched her create art with no tracing, just pure talent. She would talk about college and what majors she would like to do and what would be most helpful to society. 
 
The passion that she had for everything and everyone was remarkable. I would catch myself watching her and thinking to myself, how lucky am I? I'm the one that gets to be her mom. What did I do to deserve a perfect person? 
 
She will be the best thing to ever happen to me at such a young age myself. I grew up because of her. We grew together. I learned from her. I mattered because of her. From the moment she was born, I promised myself that I would be there no matter what. Through the falls, heartbreak, letdowns and struggles, I would be there. 
 
I would listen, learn and love every moment. I wouldn't miss a thing. I would always protect her. And November 30, 2021, exactly 17 years, six months and 13 days, made me break my first promise, and it will hurt for eternity. As her mom, I didn't protect her. 
 
First, I'd like to say thank you to the prosecution team. I say thank you to you all. Saying thank you really doesn't seem enough anymore, the countless hours you have worked, time away from your family and always taking our feelings into consideration. 
 
Karen and Marc, the work you have put into getting all the facts, speaking to us like we matter, and never wavering from your goal, it speaks volumes of the people you are. And I'm proud to call you a part of Madisyn's voice. 
 
Advocates and Jen (ph), I'm not sure where to start. You have all seen me hit points in this tragedy that some days I wasn't sure who I was. One minute, I'm laughing. Next, I'm crying. And, sometimes, I'm just silent. Either way, one thing stayed consistent. You always listened. Jen, you're not just a friend, you are family. 
 
My mind keeps going back to something during the trials, something that is almost on repeat like a broken record. It's something as a mother I can't understand. And, honestly, I don't think any mother would understand. 
 <br>[11:05:15]
 
It was when Jennifer said: "I wouldn't do anything different."
 
I'm putting a little emphasis on different, as I know life throws us things that are out of our control. But life takes turns and eventually puts them back in our control, like giving you a hint when something needs to change. 
 
I want to compare a few things to see through my perspective, as I know things are different about the events and how we see them from the events on November 30. 
 
While your son was hearing voices and asking for help, I was helping Madisyn pick out her senior classes. While you were purchasing a gun for your son and leaving it unlocked, I was helping her finish her college essays. 
 
While you dropped him off at school, upset that he was failing class, I texted Madisyn: "Drive safe. It's slick outside. Have a good day."
 
When you got a call to meet at the school about your son and how it interfered with your day, I was rearranging my schedule so I could take Madisyn to get her oil changed for the first time. When you left without hesitation, and not taking him home, I was worried if she'd be OK driving in the first snowfall of the season and if she brought a coat. 
 
When you walked out of the office with a steady pace after hearing an active shooter, I ran from my home and started driving, trying not to break the law. When you were on the phone for 10 minutes with each other trying to figure out where the gun was, I was on the phone with her father and family trying to figure out where she was. 
 
When you left the Meijer's without knowing where your son was, I was desperately trying to get there as soon as possible. When you knew the gun was missing and you called the police, knowing it was your son who took it, I was having family call every hospital describing what she looked like. 
 
When you texted Ethan, "Don't do it," I was texting Madisyn: "I love you. Please call mom."
 
When you found out about the lives your son took that day, I was still waiting for my daughter in a parking lot. When you questioned the reasoning on why he would do this, I was questioning if I was doing enough to find her. When you got a chance to speak with your son, seeing him alive and showing no support, I was watching families reunite with their children, waiting for my moment. 
 
When you asked him why, I was waiting for the answer on to why the last bus never came. When you -- when the police showed up at your house, you didn't understand why they were there. And I was asking police if they checked every possible location and if I could go search too. 
 
When you texted about not losing your job and you needed a lawyer, I was still calling my daughter because she came first in all parts of my life. When you could leave your house, I was still a prisoner in Meijer's. 
 
When you worried about what people thought of you and feeling threatened, I was learning your son threatened my daughter and fatally shot her in the head. When you drove to get your burner phones for communication, I was laying on the floor in Meijer's for hours crying because I forgot how to speak. 
 
When you checked into your first hotel, I was telling Madisyn's 11- year-old sister she was gone. When you cared more about yourself and getting alcohol and supplies, I was identifying my daughter in a medical office, wishing I could take her place. 
 
While you were hiding, I was planning her funeral. And while you were running away from your son and your responsibilities, I was forced to do the worst possible thing a parent could do. I was forced to say goodbye to my Madisyn. [11:10:10]
 
We all see things different. Some prioritize, and some don't. Accountability can only be given if you actually try it in the first place. As a parent, we all make mistakes. This is a normal way of life. Usually, when mistakes happen, we learn from them. We try to fix it or talk it over. 
 
But continuing to make the same mistake over and over again is no longer a mistake. It's a choice. That becomes a decision. Those decisions that you made ultimately took my life -- my daughter's life. Because you decided that you didn't want to parent and listen to your son, you took the right away from me to be a mother. 
 
You do not get to decide that. You do not get those privileges. You are not above anyone. I love being a mom. It's the one thing that I'm truly great at. You cared more about your well-being than the one life that you should put above anyone, your child. 
 
And, because of that, you took -- that you both took four beautiful children away from this world. Being a parent is the best, is the part of life that you should hold to the highest level. It's an honor to be a mother or a father. Even when you think you have done your best, you continue to do more. 
 
Unfortunately, you never made it to level one. You say you wouldn't do anything different. Well, that really says on what type of parents you are, because there's a lot of things I would do different. But the one thing I would have wanted to be different was to take that bullet that day, so she could continue to live the life she deserved. 
 
You show no remorse, no respect or compassion for our family,the same traits that you have bestowed upon your son, the traits that have torn my family into pieces. The lack of compassion that you have shown is outright disgusting. 
 
Not only did your son kill my daughter, but you both did as well. The words involuntary should not be a part of your offense. Everything you did that day, months prior and days after were voluntary acts of your son to commit a murder, not just one, but multiple. 
 
Shaking your head during a verdict is the utmost disrespectful thing I have ever witnessed. At that moment, you felt your life is more valuable than my daughter's. I will say that will never be true. You created a life that you took for granted. You decided that parenting wasn't a priority. 
 
Putting your child first should be the only priority. You didn't. 
 
And, because of that, I have lost my daughter. I had to get answers after her death, watching the video, hearing testimony on how your son executed my daughter, watching him put the gun to her head as she covered her head and pulled the trigger, seeing pictures of her laying in her own pool of blood, knowing her body sat there for hours, that rigor mortis had already started to set in, so that, when I identified her, her body was in a state I couldn't imagine. 
 
Hearing her sister scream over and over again night after night, watching her family and her friends fall apart, you created all of this. You created your son's life, which then allowed this to be his path, which should be yours as well. 
 
You don't get to look away. You don't get to cry. I didn't get that choice. You failed as parents. The punishment that you face will never be enough. It will never bring her back. It will never be a loss that you have suffered, and it will never heal the pain, because, one day, you're going to be able to see your son, visit, hear his voice, possibly laugh, maybe see him grow. 
 
I will never see that again. The so-called loss that you say you have suffered doesn't even compare to the loss of a child. 
 
Your Honor, I request that the maximum sentence be enforced, as it will never come close to the life sentence I was given, a life sentence that I didn't ask for, but a choice that was made for me, a life that I will suffer because of their negligence. 
 
Thank you. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Thank you. (OFF-MIKE) 
 <br>[11:15:10]
 
JUDGE CHERYL MATTHEWS, OAKLAND COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT:  Good morning. (OFF-MIKE) 
 
Can you tell me your name?
 
JILL SOAVE, MOTHER OF SHOOTING VICTIM:  Yes, Jill Soave.
 
MATTHEWS:  All right. Go ahead.
 
SOAVE:  Yes. 
 
Thank you, Honorable Judge Cheryl Matthews for your time on this case. I know it hasn't been easy on both. Thank you also to Karen McDonald and the entire prosecution team. We appreciate your efforts. 
 
Your Honor, my trauma and devastation is hard to put to words, but I have done so in my letter to you. I would also like to mention Justin's brothers, Nathan and Clay. They are now forced to live a life without their beloved middle brother, Justin. 
 
My son Justin was the least deserving of his fate. He was the best son that any mother could pray for. Justin was brave, spending his final moments protecting a fellow student. He was hardworking, a lettered athlete, a top honor student. He was kind and inclusive to all. 
 
He was full of love and joy. His future was so very bright and full of possibilities. His passing has touched so many family members, friends, students and the community in general. The ripple effects of both James and Jennifer's failures to act have devastated us all. This tragedy was completely preventable. If only they had done
 
 something, Your Honor, anything, to shift the course of events on November 30, then our four angels would be here today and Justin would be getting ready to celebrate his 20th birthday on the 18th of this month. 
 
If only, Your Honor, they had taken their son to get counseling, instead of buying him a gun, if only they had secured that gun, if only they had spoken up that day in the counseling office, if only they had checked his backpack, if only they had taken him home or taken him to counseling, instead of abandoning him at that school, I wouldn't be standing here today. 
 
Your Honor, I don't know what's in their hearts. I'm not a mind reader. But I only know the facts of this case. And the facts of this case, both cases, have been deeply disturbing. 
 
What I would like to share with the shooter's parents is an example of what love looks like between a mother and her son. This is what Justin wrote to me on one of the last birthdays that we celebrated together. 
 
"Dear mom, words cannot describe how thankful I am for you. You have been nothing but an amazing mother for as long as I can remember. Thank you for being a role model. Thank you for showing me what it's like to never give up. You inspire me to do better each and every day. I love you so much. Love, Justin."
 
 It is devastating and heartbreaking that it doesn't appear that either of you cherished or even wanted your son. But I wholeheartedly wanted and cherished mine. You have failed your son, and you have failed us all. This failure had deadly consequences that can never be undone, that can never be made right. 
 
I am asking, Your Honor, for the maximum sentence allowed. Thank you. 
 
MATTHEWS:  Thank you. 
 
SOAVE:  Thank you. 
 
CRAIG SHILLING, FATHER OF SHOOTING VICTIM:  Good morning. Craig Shilling, Justin's dad. 
 
So, Honorable Judge Matthews,for the second time in six months, I find myself standing in front of a packed courtroom a victim. This time, I am here to address a different judge and the parents of the deeply disturbed teenager that murdered my son. 
 <br>[11:20:08]
 
This is my opportunity to try to describe just how much the horrific event that took place back on November 30, 2021, has impacted my life. It's my belief that an impact statement should not just describe how this particular event impacted me. I feel that it should also be impactful towards all who hear it. 
 
And in your case, Judge, I hope these words impact you in a way that influence your decisions here today. As I look around at all the lawyers, police officers, media folks, and other victims, I can't help but ask myself, what could I possibly say that this whole scenario doesn't already say? 
 
This is messed up. Most people will never have to make a victim impact statement throughout the course of their lives. And the fact that the victims speaking here today are doing so for the second time in six months should speak volumes, in and of itself. This is not normal. Living a life like this is not normal. 
 
So, how does it affect a normal guy? To be completely honest with you, it remains a rather difficult and uncomfortable question to answer. In my previous impact statement, I have expressed many of my day-to-day struggles, from uncontrolled emotional outbreaks, to sleepless nights, to not being able to focus on normal daily tasks. 
 
Yes, it's fair to say that I live every day with pain, anger, heartache, regret, anxiety, stress, you name it. They are all there wreaking havoc in my once-normal life. They say that time heals all wounds. Well, we're coming up on 2.5 years now, and I can assure you that the wounds are still as fresh as they were on that tragic day. 
 
And with this hole that has been left in my life, it's still glaringly obvious I fight every day to not lose more of myself within that variable. I have spent the last 30 years of my life busting butt to support a family, raise children and try to set myself up for some peace and quiet in the golden years of life, but the unthinkable has happened.
 
And that peace and quiet I have worked so hard for may never come to be, at least not to the degree that I've always imagined it. Literally, every single aspect of my life has been affected by this tragedy. 
 
And I could spend a long time describing in detail just how it has impacted me, but it seems like would be way easier for me to just tell you how this tragedy hasn't impacted me, because there's simply nothing on that list. 
 
Now that the verdict is how on this monumental case, I feel strongly that it has caught the attention of most parents across the country. The overwhelming facts in this case were all that was necessary to prove that James and Jennifer Crumbley not only neglected their son by failing to get the necessary mental care that was clearly needed (INAUDIBLE) provided him the very tools necessary to carry out those heinous acts of violence. 
 
It was these very facts that allowed not just one, but two full juries to find both of them guilty of involuntary manslaughter. I will always maintain the opinion that the facts that were presented in these cases were strong enough to convince any jury of their guilt and that the verdict would have been the same regardless of where the trial was held. 
 
As I have maintained throughout the course of the past couple years, being the parent of a murdered child tends to cause you to seek out the maximum penalties allowed for each guilty verdict derived from any of the criminal charges. 
 
I think this stance is completely justified and would be so for any parent in this position, in the same position as mine. However, this is a court of law, where a person is innocent until proven guilty, and the defendant has the right to dispute the facts that -- of the charges against them. 
 
That being said, during the course of both of these trials, I did my best to capture every word and process all the facts. This is important, because there is value in these facts, not just in the thousands and thousands of manhours invested in gathering, processing and organizing the evidence, but also for being able to use that evidence to establish the cold, hard truth of this tragic situation that James and Jennifer Crumbley failed in their parental responsibilities as they pertain to the shooter who was their son. 
 
The cold truth that shows that they did nothing to address the obvious signs of the deteriorating mental state of mind clearly present within their son, and, of course, the very hard truth that shows that they provided their son with exactly what he wanted to use to do what he did, and failed miserably to secure it properly. 
 <br>[11:25:12]
 
One would probably think that, in order for something like this, of something of this magnitude to even happen at all, there would have to be a ton of things that went wrong. Although there were some things that definitely went wrong that day, for several of those things, I believe that, if they had been handled correctly, we wouldn't be here right now. 
 
And James and Jennifer Crumbley carried the bulk of the responsibility to handle those things. During their trials, the overall similarities between the two were evident. And I believe this is why they were both convicted. 
 
Numerous facts that were the same for both trials showed clearly that the parents failed to provide their son and ultimately the entire community. 
 
With Jennifer, the thing that was resonates most is that she stated that, even knowing what she knew now, she still wouldn't have changed a thing. I almost died when she said that. Four precious lives were lost at the hands of her son by the means -- by means that she helped provide. 
 
She saw the drawing of the murder drawn with the hands of her son. She sat and heard the requests of the counselor and did nothing. And she still says -- or says that she wouldn't have changed a thing. 
 
I just don't understand how someone can be that heartless to make a statement like that. 
 
The blood of our children is on your hands too. 
 
This is but one reason why I feel that Jennifer should receive the maximum amount of her -- for her sentence. The facts presented should be all the others that you should need. 
 
With her distinct lack of remorse and overall unethical understanding of the tragedy, I feel that the maximum amount of time available is needed for her to be able to fully comprehend the gravity of her actions and the lack thereof. 
 
With James, there were a couple of things that jumped out at me in particular. But one thing that is the toughest to digest is the fact that, when the verdict was being read, he sat there and shook his head in total disagreement, as if to suggest that the jury was wrong and that there were no grounds for a guilty verdict. 
 
I was dumbfounded to see him shake his head with such disbelief, an action that only suggests that he truly believes he did nothing wrong. How could you possibly think that? Four precious lives were lost at the hands of your son by means (INAUDIBLE) by means that he helped provide. 
 
He saw the drawing of the murder drawn with the hands of the son. He sat and heard the requests of the counselor and did nothing. I just don't understand how someone could so arrogantly (INAUDIBLE) in a pool of self-pity without being able to say one thing to justify themselves. 
 
The blood for our children is on your hands too. 
 
This is but one reason why I feel that James should receive the maximum amount for his sentence. The facts presented should be all the others that you need. 
 
With his distinct lack of remorse and overall unethical understanding of the tragedy, I feel that the maximum amount of time available is needed for him to be able to fully comprehend the gravity of his actions and the lack thereof. 
 
Throughout the course of all of this, and I'm talking way from back in the beginning, I just can't get over the fact that this tragedy was completely avoidable. There were some pretty obvious signs that were completely overlooked, and the bulk of the responsibilities to address those signs lie on the parents, and they failed, across-the-board failed. 
 
They willfully ignored the cries of their child and selfishly put themselves before helping him. This type of blatant disregard is undeniably unacceptable. This is a large reason why the events of that -- the events of that day were able -- or were allowed to happen and another reason why I feel they both need the maximum amount of time available to be able to fully comprehend the gravity of their actions and the lack thereof. 
 
We all know that having children is a big responsibility. Although extremely rewarding, it starts out pretty scary. I mean, let's face it. They don't exactly come with instructions. There's no mute button, and, unfortunately, no pause or rewind button either. 
 
Oh, yes, and there are times in the beginning that they (INAUDIBLE) yet we still have them. We still want that responsibility, even though it's not very clear what it all entails.