Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Thousands Evacuated as Parts of Spain Hit with Nearly a Month`s Rainfall in One Hour; "Common Understanding" Between China and Russia; From Pumpkins to Trees, How One Templeton Farm Quickly Transitions to Christmas Season; Stunning New Images of Jupiter Revealed. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired November 15, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello everyone, hope you`re off to a great start to this little slice of heaven we call Friday, Fri-yay. I`m Coy Wire, this 
 
 is CNN 10, but we`re down to just like 9 minutes and 45 seconds, so let`s get her done.
 
We start today in Southern Spain, where people there were subjected to a month`s worth of rain in just one hour alone. Spain continues to get 
 
 battered by severe thunderstorms and torrential rain. Schools closed and more than 4,000 people evacuated the area of Malaga, which sits along the 
 
 nation`s southern coast.
 
This all comes just two weeks after the biggest flood in decades washed through Valencia, which is about a six and a half hour drive up north along 
 
 the east coast of Spain. That took out roads and bridges, piled up cars and roadways, and killed more than 220 people. 
 
Meteorologists say this series of rainstorms were part of two low-pressure weather systems causing stormy conditions enhanced by moisture coming off 
 
 of the Mediterranean Sea and running up against Spain`s coastal mountains.
 
Next we go to China, where the country`s largest air show showcased Chinese and Russian military aircraft, signaling an increasingly closer alliance 
 
 between the two countries. Russian President Vladimir Putin has said he wants to build a new world order, less focused around the United States, 
 
 and he`s been working to forge closer relationships with China and North Korea, a country which is believed to have recently sent more than 10,000 
 
 troops to fight with the Russian army against Ukraine. 
 
CNN`s Fred Pleitgen, has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Jet fighters streaking across the skies at China`s largest air show, aiming 
 
 to show just how fast the People`s Republic is modernizing its massive military.
 
China`s main partner is Russia. The head of the Russian National Security Council, Sergei Shoigu in Beijing, praising ever closer ties. 
 
We are not a military political alliance like the ones formed during the Cold War, he says. Relations between our countries are superior to those 
 
 forms of interstate ties.
 
This as China shows off its brand-new stealth fighter called the J35A for the first time ever, while the Russians were showcasing their own stealth 
 
 jet, the SU57, which has already been used in combat operations.
 
Russia and China have dramatically expanded their military cooperation in recent years with regular exercises like these major naval drills the 
 
 Russians say were the largest in more than 30 years.
 
This as Vladimir Putin says he wants what he calls a New World Order with less U.S. influence and more power in the hands of countries like Russia 
 
 and China. 
 
Russian-Chinese cooperation in world affairs acts as one of the main stabilizing factors in the global arena, he said.
 
And China`s Xi Jinping added, in the face of the turbulent international situation and external environment, the two sides should continue to uphold 
 
 the original aspiration of friendship for generations to come.
 
All this as relations with the U.S. grow ever more adversarial. Washington concerned about Chinese territorial claims and military expansion in the 
 
 South China Sea. President-elect Donald Trump vowing to rein Beijing in.
 
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT-ELECT:  There are certain countries I can tell you, everyone I can give you from top to bottom. China is the toughest of 
 
 all, but were taking care of China with the tariffs.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  But the U.S. now also faces an emboldened North Korea. Kim Jong Un, heavily courted by Russian President Vladimir Putin, 
 
 recently conducting another round of ballistic missile tests. The U.S. also believes more than 10,000 North Korean soldiers are currently fighting on 
 
 Russia`s side in its war against Ukraine.
 
(On camera):  And Russian President Vladimir Putin has made clear that he wants to remain on the forefront of building what he calls this New World 
 
 Order and therefore for the Russians, their relations both with North Korea and with China, they say will continue to only go in one direction towards 
 
 deeper cooperation.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right, we are less than two weeks away from Thanksgiving. The holiday season is about to kick off in full force. Did you know that 77% of 
 
 Americans who plan to display a Christmas tree this year will opt for an artificial one? That`s according to a survey done last year by the American 
 
 Christmas Tree Association. 
 
Despite that, in the U.S. about 25 to 30 million real Christmas trees are sold every year. And on average, it takes somewhere between four to 15 
 
 years to grow a single tree, according to the National Christmas Tree Association.
 
CNN affiliate KSBY spoke with one farm in Templeton, California about the ups and downs of transitioning from pumpkin season to Christmas trees each 
 
 holiday season.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over):  For co-owners of Jack Creek Farms, Mandy Evenson and Becky Sumpter, the holidays are a busy time of year. As the 
 
 sisters convert from a pumpkin patch to a tree farm.
 
BECKY SUMPTER, CO-OWNER, JACK CREEK FARMS:  Our pumpkin season actually runs all the way up to and including Thanksgiving. And then the day after 
 
 Thanksgiving is when we transition into selling Christmas trees. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Farming both pumpkins and Christmas trees helps support the farm during difficult growing years.
 
SUMPTER:  Years like this where a Christmas tree crop is a little bit skinny and we`re kind of in between harvests, we had a great pumpkin 
 
 harvest. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I asked why the tree harvest varies year to year. 
 
SUMPTER:  I only have a small dedicated patch on my farm. Each year that I harvest a tree, I`ll replant a tree. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That means the trees you choose from this year might be smaller than you`re used to.
 
MANDY EVENSON, CO-OWNER JACK CREEK FARMS:  We found so many homes for most of the bigger guys last year that now we`re waiting on the next crop to 
 
 come up in size.
 
SUMPTER:  So like this guy is going to be a four-year-old tree that`s mature and ready to harvest. This is a little baby tree that you can see 
 
 comes just past my knee. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The past few years of severe weather conditions made growing Christmas trees difficult.
 
SUMPTER:  Bad floods, bad droughts, intense heat. That means we`re kind of at an in-between year where I don`t have as many trees available for 
 
 picking. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Templeton-based farm is one of the few farms that still grows Christmas trees on the Central Coast.
 
SUMPTER:  The vast majority of the Christmas trees that are purchased on the Central Coast are grown up in Oregon and Washington because they have 
 
 the cooler weather, they have a climate that trees are better suited toward.
 
SUMPTER:  They grow two varieties that are suited to the weather here in Templeton, the Monterey Pine and the Monterey Cypress, of which there are 
 
 40 full-size trees available this year.
 
EVENSON:  We might sell out our first day this year.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Pop quiz hotshot. Which planet has the largest ocean? 
 
Venus, Earth, Jupiter, or Neptune?
 
Answer is Jupiter. Not only is Jupiter the oldest and largest planet in our solar system, a thousand times bigger than Earth, instead of water, Jupiter 
 
 is believed to contain a smoldering ocean of liquid hydrogen, which generates a powerful magnetic field on the planet. 
 
In today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re getting a jaw-dropping closer look at Jupiter. Check this out. This is Jupiter in high res. Newly 
 
 released photos from NASA`s Juno spacecraft gives us an unprecedented, up- close look at the planet`s colorfully turbulent atmosphere.
 
Is it just me, or does this look a lot like Vincent van Gogh`s famous painting, The Starry Night? A NASA spokesperson called the gas giant`s 
 
 images mind-blowingly brain-melting, and that the images not only provide a spectacular look at Jupiter`s swirling, turbulent atmosphere, but also 
 
 countless revelations about the inner workings of this massive and mysterious planet. 
 
All right, it is shout-out time now, and our last shout-out of the week goes to Lake Shore Middle School in Mequon, Wisconsin. Thank you for being 
 
 part of the CNN 10 family. 
 
Go on out, make someone smile this weekend. You never know when or how, you just may be the light someone needs. 
 
Rise up, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been simply awesome to spend this week with you.
 
END