Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Israel Launches Large-Scale Raid In Occupied West Bank; Trump Says he's Accepted Rules For September 10 Debate; Special Counsel Files New Indictment Against Trump; Trump Sits Down For Interview With Dr. Phil; Fake MAGA Accounts On X Promote Trump Re-Election; WHO Declares MPOX A Global Public Health Emergency; Namibia Will Kill Hundreds Of Animals To Feed Its People; U.S. Surgeon General: Parental Stress Is A Public Health Issue; Aired 12:00-1:00p ET

Aired August 28, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:28]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: Deadly raids across the West Bank. One militant group is calling the situation, quote, an open and undeclared war.
 
ONE WORLD starts right now.
 
Hamas is calling for mobilization following this major military operation in the West Bank. We'll tell you why Israel says the act was justified.
 
Also ahead, drastic measure. An African nation forced to kill its national treasures because of climate change.
 
And later, if you're a parent, you probably already know what I'm about to tell you. Parenting is hard. The Surgeon General's alert about parental 
 
 stress.
 
Hello, everyone. Live from New York, I'm Bianna Golodryga. You are watching ONE WORLD.
 
Well, Israel has launched one of its largest raids in years in the occupied West Bank, even as its war with Hamas and Gaza grinds on.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(GUNSHOTS)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Palestinian health authorities say at least 10 people have been killed in the West Bank operations. Video obtained by CNN shows bulldozers 
 
 tearing up a street in Jenin.
 
Another shows military vehicles outside a hospital there. The Palestinian Ministry of Health says Israeli forces blocked roads leading to the 
 
 facility.
 
Israel says it is targeting terrorist infrastructure supported by Iran. Footage released by the IDF shows a strike on what it said was a militant 
 
 operations room in a refugee camp. Israel's foreign minister calls it war and accuses Iran of funding and arming terrorists and smuggling advanced 
 
 weapons via Jordan.
 
A Palestinian official calls it an escalation, while Hamas is calling for a general mobilization against the Israeli occupation.
 
For more on this, let's turn to Jeremy Diamond, who joins us now from Tel Aviv. And, Jeremy, as you know, many security officials have been concerned 
 
 about escalating violence their and tensions in the West Bank.
 
Talk about more what we saw yesterday with Israel's actions there.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, today what we are seeing is one of the largest Israeli military operations in the occupied West Bank 
 
 in years. At least that's what it appears to be. And certainly how a number of Israeli officials appear to be framing the actions happening today.
 
We've already seen, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health, 10 people who have been confirmed killed in this operation so far, some of 
 
 those appear to be militants, according to various militants groups claiming or noting that they have died.
 
We are seeing Israeli troops, as well as Israeli border police officers going into two major cities in the West Bank, Jenin and Tulkarm.
 
An Israeli military official say that there are two key reasons why they are doing this. For the first of which is that they believe that Iran is 
 
 smuggling a large number of weapons into the West Bank. And so seizing some of those weapons is a part of the mission here.
 
But also because they say that a number of attacks against Israeli troops, as well as civilians, have been launched from these two cities.
 
The Israeli military spokesman, Nadav Shoshani, is saying that they are in the first stages of this military operation suggesting that it could 
 
 stretch for several days.
 
And, of course, it doesn't come in a vacuum, not only in terms of the attacks that militants have carried out in recent months, but also of 
 
 course the fact that since October 7th, we have seen near daily raids by the Israeli military into the occupied West Bank over the course of these 
 
 last nearly 11 months, resulting in the deaths of at least 652 Palestinians, that's both civilians and combatants, according to the 
 
 Palestinian Ministry of Health. More than 4,500 Palestinians have been arrested in that time.
 
And what's also significant is that we have seen, in addition to the ground forces that are going in today, we are also seeing a number of airstrikes 
 
 being carried out. And those were once rare before October 7th, but they have since become quite commonplace, quite a, you know, normal way that the 
 
 Israeli military has been carrying out its warfare in this area.
 
And we are also seeing now comments from some Israeli politicians, including the Israeli Foreign Minister, Israel Katz, saying that comparing 
 
 the actions that Israel is carrying out to the actions in Gaza, suggesting that there should be forcible evacuations of certain areas.
 
The Israeli military says that is not happening, at least not for the time being, although there are efforts to allow safe passage for certain 
 
 civilians who want to leave some of these areas, as Israeli troops move in.
 <br>[12:05:10]
 
We also know that there are reports of Israeli troops surrounding certain hospitals in the area. The Israeli military confirming that its troops have 
 
 surrounded at least one hospital in Jenin.
 
They say, though, that that is to prevent militants from going into those hospitals and using them to attack their forces. That is being viewed very 
 
 differently, of course, by Palestinian officials on the ground.
 
Bianna.
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Jeremy Diamond, you'll be following this closely for us. Thank you so much.
 
And we want to bring you an update now on yesterday's good news. Farhan Al- Qadi has been discharged from an Israeli hospital. 52-year-old veteran Israeli citizen was working at a Kibbutz packing factory when he was 
 
 kidnapped on October 7th. He was finally brought home this week after being held in Gaza for 326 days.
 
The IDF says Al-Qadi was being kept in an underground tunnel in Southern Gaza where he was rescued in a complex operation. His family said it was 
 
 like he'd been, quote, brought back to life. 
 
Turning to U.S. politics. Later today, U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris and her running mate, Tim Walz, are hitting the campaign trail together 
 
 with a bus tour in the battleground state of Georgia.
 
The pair will also sit down for their first interview since the start of their campaign. We'll lay it her right here, 9:00 P.M. Eastern time on 
 
 Thursday night.
 
Meanwhile, the dispute over whether microphones should be muted or not when the vice president debates Donald Trump next month still appears to be 
 
 unresolved. But here's what Michael Tyler, the communications director for the Harris-Walz campaign, said on CNN earlier.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL TYLER, COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, HARRIS-WALZ CAMPAIGN: Listen, we fully intend to debate. We are going to be there. The question is will 
 
 Donald Trump commit to the terms that he's publicly agreed to? Or will he let his team overrule him?
 
So I guess we'll see if and when he shows up on September 10th, which decision he has made.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: CNN's Eva McKend joins me now live from Washington.
 
Eva, it sounds like we'll just all have to ultimately wait and see what happens on September 10th. But what has, what firmly do you know has the 
 
 Walz or the Harris-Walz campaign agreed to with regards to mics?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: So this seems to still be a live issue, Bianna. The Trump campaign, ABC says that those mics 
 
 will in fact be muted when the candidate who is not supposed to be speaking speaks out of turn, but the Harris campaign still seems to want to press 
 
 this.
 
And it's for clear reasons. They want a moment up on that stage. They don't believe that the former president can control himself.
 
We have seen over the last five weeks, Vice President Harris is very much able to control herself. She runs a very disciplined operation. Everything 
 
 is very tightly choreographed. And so they are really begging for that contrast in just a few weeks.
 
And yet, these were rules agreed to by then candidate Biden. So that is the argument being made by Donald Trump.
 
Obviously up until yesterday, we didn't even know if he would agree to this debate, even though he had agreed to that when the other candidate was Joe 
 
 Biden.
 
But given that now we have a new vice presidential candidate, what are the responses from the campaign about what looks like perhaps some flip 
 
 flopping on their end?
 
MCKEND: They're just pushing back against it. They're really resolute in wanting to advocate for these very specific conditions.
 
And, of course, that was probably negotiated previously because they didn't want President Biden to be thrown off by the former president's theatrics.
 
But looking ahead, Bianna, you have the vice president and her running mate, Governor Tim Walz, out on a bus tour in the critical battleground 
 
 state of Georgia. It's all the more notable because they're not just campaigning in Metro Atlanta, they are moving beyond that region to the 
 
 more rural areas of the state.
 
This is a big test for Governor Walz. He, of course, comes from a rural community himself in Nebraska, a farming community. And so they're looking 
 
 to see how he connects with rural voters in Georgia. And if they can deploy him solo separate from Vice President Harris in other parts of the country 
 
 with similar geographical realities. So parts of North Carolina, for instance.
 
And so this is a critical next few hours for the campaign, as they try to test out different strategies.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. A big test for the vice presidential nominee or at least on the ticket there with Governor Walz. As you know, he's not someone who is 
 
 well known, not just in Georgia in many states. And that can be viewed as a plus or perhaps a deficit given how he does there. So that'll be very 
 
 interesting to watch.
 <br>[12:10:01]
 
Eva McKend, thank you so much.
 
And Kamala Harris and Tim Walz will have their first interview since the democratic convention right here on CNN with our very own Dana Bash. That 
 
 is Thursday at 9:00 P.M. Eastern.
 
Well, if you thought the Supreme Court's bombshell decision on presidential immunity would end the January 6 case against Donald Trump, well, not so 
 
 fast.
 
Special Counsel Jack Smith has filed a new indictment against Trump in that case. It is shorter than the original indictment taking out language about 
 
 Trump's interaction with senior Justice Department officials in light of the Supreme Court ruling.
 
But the charges against Trump remain unchanged. He faces four criminal counts, including obstruction and conspiracy. So let's bring in CNN senior 
 
 crime and justice reporter Katelyn Polantz with more.
 
So, Katelyn, the charges remain. The language has changed. Interesting. And even the first paragraph initially described Donald Trump as the 45th 
 
 president of the United States and candidate for re-election in 2020.
 
Well, now, it describes Mr. Trump as a candidate for president of the United States in 2020 exclusively.
 
Talk to us about the significance of some of these changes.
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, Bianna, this is the Justice Department's effort to get this case back on track and 
 
 moving toward a trial after this long pause where the Supreme Court was determining that ultimately they said there was some presidential immunity 
 
 around that office, the things that Donald Trump or anyone else serving as president was doing while they were officially the president that those 
 
 things could not be part of a criminal prosecution either as evidence or charged conduct.
 
So they had to rewrite things. They had to take out possible evidence at trial. They had to remove moments. They had to remove interactions that 
 
 Donald Trump had with people like his Justice Department officials. His chief of staff in the Oval Office, things he was saying in the West Wing, 
 
 in the Rose Garden, other interactions he had with officials in the executive branch. All of that had to get crossed out.
 
So this indictment that went through a new grand jury in Washington, D.C., it's about 13 pages shorter. And it focuses, as you pointed out, around 
 
 Donald Trump, the candidate.
 
And what Donald Trump, the candidate, was doing and being told by his campaign advisors who were saying, you've lost the election time to give it 
 
 up. And at the same time was telling private attorneys working for him, people like Rudy Giuliani, Sidney Powell, John Eastman, to attempt to block 
 
 the transfer of power to Joe Biden and use fake electors, put pressure on state governments. That's the case that remains.
 
There's going to be quite a bit to come in the coming days in fighting over whether this type of case and the way that the Justice Department has 
 
 phrased it.
 
Now, if it can go to trial, we're going to hear next on Friday from the Justice Department and Trump's team with a plan to move forward. And then 
 
 they're going to be before the judge next week.
 
GOLODRYGA: And the judge is the same judge in the original case and that is Judge Tanya Chutkan in Washington, D.C.
 
Katelyn Polantz, thank you so much.
 
Well, Kamala Harris' campaign is slamming Donald Trump for some bizarre remarks he made during an interview with TV personality, Dr. Phil.
 
In the hour-long discussion that at times appear to be more of a rant, the former president implied that he would have been declared the winner in 
 
 California four years ago if Jesus had counted the votes.
 
He also once again falsely claimed that he won the 2020 election and he called the vice president a Marxist.
 
And without evidence, Trump blamed Harris and President Joe Biden in part for the attempt to assassinate him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: When this happened, people would ask whose fault is it? I think to a certain extent, it's Biden's 
 
 fault and Harris' fault. And I'm the opponent.
 
Look, they were weaponizing government against me. They brought in the whole DOJ to try and get me. They weren't too interested in my health and 
 
 safety.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
Tolu Olorunnipa is the White House Bureau Chief for "The Washington Post" and he joins me now live in Washington.
 
Tolu, good to see you. So I'm wondering, given the frustration we've heard from Trump campaign officials trying to get the president to stick to 
 
 issues and policy, and once again, he's reverting back to some of his wild conspiracies, going off-script, off-topic, off-policy.
 
Is this suggesting that this is the Trump we will likely see, perhaps, at that September 10th debate, if he does show up?
 
TOLUSE OLORUNNIPA, WHITE HOUSE BUREAU CHIEF, WASHINGTON POST: This is the Trump we've been seeing for several years, and definitely over the past 
 
 month as Kamala Harris has rattled him, in part, because she's been getting a large crowd. She's been getting a lot of momentum, raising a lot of 
 
 money.
 
And so when we do get to September 10th, there have been a lot of debate about whether or not these two individuals would be on the stage together 
 
 at the debate.
 
But I think this is the Trump that we will see, in part, because he has not been able to stick to a consistent message. He has not been able to follow 
 
 the advice of his counselors and his advisors who are telling him to focus on policy, try to draw contrast with Kamala Harris based on policy, based 
 
 on what people in the country actually care about, not based on some of these wild conspiracy theories and questions about who they are and what he 
 
 would say Kamala Harris is all about.
 <br>[12:15:24]
 
And so I do expect we will see this on the -- on the debate stage, this version of Trump, which is not the most popular version of Trump. It's a 
 
 version that has rebuffed a lot of voters who are in the middle who are still undecided, but if they see this kind of display on the debate stage 
 
 against Kamala Harris, that probably will not win them over, in part because a lot of these voters may have voted for Trump in 2016, but in 
 
 2020, they said that enough was enough because they saw how chaotic his administration was.
 
If he continues to espouse those kinds of views and those kinds of policies on the debate stage, I think a lot of those voters could be turned off once 
 
 again.
 
GOLODRYGA: Right. Because this isn't going to alienate his ardent supporters, the MAGA supporters who have been with him all along, but if 
 
 we're talking about that small but crucial subset of voters who are not undecided or perhaps voted in further than the past and don't know if 
 
 they'll continue to vote for him in this year's election, this is not something that works in his benefit. Most people would argue.
 
Let me ask you about this Georgia tour now that the Vice President and Tim Walz are embarking on. Talk about the significance of that and highlighting 
 
 that now Democrats really think Georgia is indeed at play again.
 
OLORUNNIPA: Democrats are bullish on Georgia. It has 16 electoral votes. It's really a state that if Trump loses, there's not really much of a 
 
 pathway for him to win the presidency without Georgia.
 
So it shows how much Democrats have gone on offense instead of just playing defense, trying to protect the blue wall states of Michigan, Pennsylvania 
 
 and Wisconsin. They are going into states where Republicans traditionally have won and trying to showcase that they can be competitive.
 
It's important that Kamala Harris and Tim Walz are not only spending time in Atlanta and in the metro area of Atlanta, where about half the 
 
 population of Georgia resides, they are going beyond that. They're going to other places. They're going to the southeastern part of the state where you 
 
 have rural communities, you have suburban communities.
 
They are trying not only to bank democratic votes in places like Savannah, but they're trying to hold down Trump's margins in more rural places where 
 
 you have smaller populations.
 
But Trump has normally run up the score because he's gotten such a large margins in small towns. They are hoping that they can hold those margins 
 
 down in a close race and that would be decisive by going to places and showing up in places that don't normally see democratic candidates come in 
 
 part because they are smaller towns, in part, because Republicans are intent to win in those smaller areas.
 
But if Democrats show up, they feel like they will be able to hold the margins down in a way that will benefit them statewide.
 
And if they do win Georgia, it's very difficult to see Trump having any pathway to the presidency. And so this is an offensive move, a move to 
 
 showcase how much the race has changed since Joe Biden left the race and Kamala Harris has become the standard bearer.
 
GOLODRYGA: So aside from trying to make amends with very popular Republican governor of Georgia, Brian Kemp, last week, at least via social media, what 
 
 more are you hearing about the state's campaign that to the Trump campaign will be doing, s0pecifically to address that issue and the concern now 
 
 about winning Georgia?
 
OLORUNNIPA: Well, they're putting a lot of resources, a lot of money into Georgia. We saw J.D. Vance, the vice presidential candidate, go down to 
 
 Georgia just last week. Trump is going to be going there in the days ahead.
 
They realize that they need to win this state. You've heard from South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham say on television over the weekend that 
 
 they need to win Georgia or they're going to lose this race.
 
And so they are experiencing some of the concerns that Republicans are seeing now that Kamala Harris is the leader in the Democratic Party and 
 
 gaining in the polls.
 
And they are starting to infuse more resources into Georgia and also encouraging Trump to put aside these petty battles that he has with the 
 
 popular governor of the state, Brian Kemp, who has won a reelection in the state, who is popular with his constituents and who Trump has attacked over 
 
 and over again, creating a rift in the party.
 
There are people who have voted for Kemp who don't like Donald Trump and Trump needs every Republican voter in Georgia to come out and vote for him. 
 
 And so that's part of the reason you see him trying to bury the hatchet, at least publicly saying that he's on board with Governor Kemp.
 
Governor Kemp is going to be doing a fundraiser for Trump. So they're trying to showcase this unity and showcase that they have the Republican 
 
 Party united behind Donald Trump in the state of Georgia.
 
They're going to need to do that, but they're also going to need to win over some of those moderate voters, some of the voters who voted for Nikki 
 
 Haley in the primary who are not rock-ribbed conservative Republicans, who definitely aren't part of the MAGA movement.
 
Trump needs to win those voters over if he's going to win in Georgia and is not yet clear with some of the things that he's saying and his antics over 
 
 the past weeks that he's ready to pivot in a way that would appeal to voters in the middle.
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. Well, let's see if going through forward on this sort of uniting the party in Georgia, in particular, and mending fences with its 
 
 governor will last. Obviously it's going to require a lot more than one social media post.
 
Tolu Olorunnipa, thank you so much.
 
OLORUNNIPA: Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, there are allegations that aides to Donald Trump may have violated a federal ban on political campaign activities at Arlington 
 
 National Cemetery. Trump was at Arlington on Monday to mark the anniversary of a deadly attack on U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan.
 
While there, an Arlington staffer reportedly had to physically block several Trump aides from taking photos and videos of him inside the 
 
 cemetery.
 
Trump's campaign says that it had permission from the families of fallen soldiers to capture images of the event.
 
A spokesperson for the cemetery said a report has been filed about the incident.
 
And still to come on ONE WORLD -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER: What's your reaction?
 
DEBBIE NEDERLOF, MODEL AND SOCIAL MEDIA MANAGER: My -- to be honest, what the (BLEEP) was my reaction?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: The women who have had their personal photos stolen as part of a scheme to promote Donald Trump. The results of a CNN investigation, coming 
 
 up.
 
And later, it's been two years since the last MPOX outbreak in Africa. But the illness has returned with a vengeance. The head of Africa's CDC joins 
 
 us to talk about efforts to contain it.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Earlier today, the founder of the Telegram messaging app, Pavel Durov, was released from police custody in France.
 
We're told that he was taken to court for questioning by an investigative judge. He was detained in Paris on Saturday on a warrant related to 
 
 Telegram's failure to moderate content posted by users.
 
He's being investigated in connection with a host of crimes, including allegations that his platform was complicit in aiding drug traffickers and 
 
 people spreading child pornography.
 
Well, CNN investigation has revealed a shocking link between identity theft and efforts to reelect Donald Trump. CNN has discovered that some of 
 
 Trump's supporters on X, formerly known as Twitter, are not who they appear to be.
 
The accounts are fake, and the photos and other information on display have been stolen from online influencers in Europe, who say they want nothing to 
 
 do with American politics.
 
CNN investigative reporter Katie Polglase has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
POLGLASE (voice-over): Debbie is heading home from work in Luxembourg, Northern Europe, crossing the border into Germany, she races back to her 
 
 son.
 <br>[12:25:06]
 
And of course, Lou. But Debbie's day doesn't end there. She's also a professional model. Her image not only her identity, but her source of 
 
 income, helping support her and her son.
 
But it's been stolen, used in a pro-Trump account on X, attracting nearly 30,000 followers in less than six months.
 
Here is Yuna (ph).
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. That's very crazy.
 
POLGLASE: And when you see these views, you know, it's saying, vote for Trump in 2024, what's your reaction?
 
My -- to be honest, what the (BLEEP) was my reaction. That was my reaction because I have nothing to do with the United States with Trump -- the 
 
 political things over there.
 
POLGLASE: And if people following this account believe that this is you, what do you want to say to them?
 
NEDERLOF: That it's definitely not me. Definitely. It was never me and it will never be me. And they have to un-follow, please.
 
POLGLASE: In fact, Debbie is not alone. In partnership with the Centre for Information Resilience, CNN found nearly 60 fake Trump supporting accounts.
 
And from these, we identified nearly a dozen women, real women, from across Europe, from Denmark to the Netherlands, and as far away as Russia, whose 
 
 identities are being used in accounts telling voters, American voters, to vote for Trump in the upcoming U.S. election.
 
POLGLASE (voice-over): Let's take a look at some of these accounts, like Alina (ph), 33, and voting for Trump. But she's not. She's REALLY KAMILLA 
 
 FROM DENMARK. KAMILLA BROBERG, INSTAGRAM INFLUENCER: I think it's weird. Anything that can discriminate other people on my account, because it's my little 
 
 universe. I don't think it's fair.
 
POLGLASE (voice-over): And this one, Eva. She even has a verified blue tick, which is supposed to weed out fake accounts.
 
NERIAH TELLERUP, INSTAGRAM INFLUENCER: You feel very taken advantage of, also because it's kind of my image. I don't want to think people think that 
 
 I do what those profiles sometimes are promoting.
 
POLGLASE (voice-over): We ran the suspicious ex-photos through a reverse image search engine and found they were lifted from Instagram posts. 
 
 Certain patterns emerged. The fake accounts repost each other. It's a sign of a coordinated campaign.
 
Here, several of the fake accounts post the exact same wording. If you're voting for the man who survived an assassination attempt, I want to follow 
 
 you. It's another sign the accounts are linked.
 
And that's not all. Some of the accounts manipulated the images of these women. Have a look at Debbie's post, the original on Instagram, and now the 
 
 fake one on X. Her hat now reads, Make America Great Again.
 
Look at this t-shirt before, and then Trump 2024.
 
For now, we don't know who is behind all these accounts. But the former U.S. National Security Council spokeswoman who also used to investigate 
 
 fake accounts for Twitter told us this.
 
EMILY HORNE, FORMER GLOBAL HEAD OF POLICY, TWITTER: I don't think it's unreasonable to ask questions about could there be a state actor involved. 
 
 We know that there are multiple state actors who have been using social media to try to sow disinformation campaigns in the run up to the 2024 
 
 election.
 
POLGLASE (voice-over): But regardless, the accounts are reaching influential politicians. We found the official account for Doug Mastriano, 
 
 the Republican senator for Pennsylvania, follows Debbie's fake account.
 
CNN contacted the senator about the account, but has not heard back.
 
Back in Germany, Debbie is shocked and upset that her image is being used in this way.
 
With President Trump now back on X and Elon Musk, the owner of X, throwing his weight behind him, fake pro-Trump content appears to be flourishing. 
 
 Silencing the real women affected.
 
Once again, women's rights at the very heart of this presidential election.
 
Katie Polglase, CNN, Treia, Germany.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: Really troubling report. Thanks to Katie for that.
 
Well, CNN reached out to X regarding these accounts, but did not receive a response.
 
However, in the last 24 hours, X took down the majority of the accounts. There's no indication that the Trump campaign was involved.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:16]
 
GOLODRYGA: Welcome back to ONE WORLD. I'm Bianna Golodryga.
 
For the second time in two years, the World Health Organization has declared MPOX, a global public health emergency. Africa CDC has made a 
 
 similar declaration.
 
According to the Africa CDC, the outbreak has affected 13 African nations. And just the last week, 81 people have lost their lives to the MPOX 
 
 outbreak. That's why scientists are now sounding the alarm.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SALIM ABDOOL KARIM, EPIDEMIOLOGIST, AFRICA CDC MPOX ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEMBER: Its potential to spread is there. What we need to do is to try and 
 
 take all our concerted measures to prevent that from happening. So we need to act now to prevent the worst-case scenario.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: During the last outbreak in 2022, wealthier countries sent vaccines and treatments from their stockpiles, but little of it actually 
 
 reached Africa. Well, it's the same this year, according to the Africa CDC.
 
Time now for The Exchange. My next guest says, calling MPOX solely an African health issue is inappropriate. Jean Kaseya, Head of the Africa 
 
 Centers for Disease and Control and Prevention, joins us now from the Republic of Congo.
 
Jean, welcome to the program. Really alarming trend that we're seeing now. And hearing from health officials, they are saying that this new MPOX 
 
 strain is, quote, changing faster than expected. Explain to us exactly what you're seeing.
 
JEAN KASEYA, DIRECTOR GENERAL, AFRICA CDC: Thank you very much for having me, Bianna.
 
Let me remind you that in 2022, WHO declared public health emergency of international concern when we had the number of cases in Europe and even in 
 
 the U.S.
 <br>[12:35:59]
 
At that moment, if you want to have an idea in DRC, that is the epicenter of the disease today. We had only 5,000 cases.
 
But currently, we have more than 7,000 cases in DRC. Why we have that? Because in 2022, 2023, when we had the public efforts of international 
 
 concern, vaccines were made available for European countries, but nothing landed to Africa.
 
This is why you will see that the number of cases in Africa was growing because we didn't get support. And this is one of the reasons that is 
 
 explaining this outbreak that we are facing today. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And this has led to new concern about this new strain, known as Clade 1B. And it is described as potentially more lethal. The fatality rate 
 
 is between four percent and 11 percent, compared to about one percent before.
 
So what more do you need now from the CDC itself? And some of the biggest priorities you have in tackling this new strain?
 
Because one infectious disease expert, they're saying, that they worry in Africa, quote, we are working blindly.
 
KASEYA: Each year (INAUDIBLE) we don't have one outbreak. We have many outbreaks in one.
 
When we are talking about MPOX outbreak in Africa today, we are talking about at least four outbreaks. The Clade 1A, Clade 1B, Clade 2A, Clade 2B, 
 
 with so many complexities, with so many changes in terms of epidemiology. And this is what is making us on alert mode.
 
And if you see in the eastern part of DRC, there is this Clade 1B. That is also infecting Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Kenya. That one is also becoming 
 
 sexual transmitted MPOX.
 
I think now we are facing what we call the gray zone, because there are so many unknown. And we need to conduct so many studies.
 
But what we need currently is to have strong surveillance mechanism to detect all cases, scan to have the way to test all cases.
 
Because, currently, the testing rate in some countries is 18 percent. That one is not helping us to confirm cases.
 
And third, we need more vaccine. We need 10 million doses, but currently what we got is only around one million that we have as donation for many 
 
 countries.
 
GOLODRYGA: What is standing in the way? What is the biggest impediment to getting more vaccines to you right now?
 
KASEYA: This vaccine is so expensive. And what we need now that we've finalized our continental response plan, and we know the needs of each 
 
 country in Africa, we need our partners to come strongly to sit with us. We need to stop what happened in the past. We need now to talk about 
 
 solidarity.
 
This action that led for our Western countries partners not to provide support to Africa, we need to know that no one is safe. Because today if we 
 
 don't support Africa, U.S. and Europe will be infected.
 
Now, let us come together. Let us -- we are asking our partners to provide sufficient funds for us to procure this vaccine and to make available for 
 
 Africans.
 
GOLODRYGA: Who in the community is most vulnerable, specifically to this new strain? Is it women, children, those who are immunocompromised?
 
KASEYA: You know, the epidemiology of MPOX is so different from country to country, even in the same country, region to another region.
 
Other countries were mostly male and adult. But in DRC and some other countries affected like Rwanda, Burundi, we have mostly young people.
 
Even I saw in one of the health zone in DRC, around 38 (ph) percent of total affected people are children less than five years. You can imagine we 
 
 are putting our future at risk with this outbreak.
 
In addition to the young people, we have people with HIV. It means the humidity -- low humidity, where people with malnutrition. We have also 
 
 pregnant women and we have people living in camps, you know, like (INADUIBLE) people were displaced.
 <br>[12:40:06]
 
I think these are people who are more vulnerable for MPOX.
 
GOLODRYGA: Right. And when I mentioned women, I should note it is pregnant women who I know that officials are concerned about as being increasingly 
 
 vulnerable as well.
 
Listen, time is of the essence to get more vaccines, as you said to Africa, as soon as possible. We've seen this happen in the past two years ago and 
 
 no one wants to replicate that again. And we will obviously continue to be following this very important story.
 
Jean Kaseya, thank you for what you're doing and thank you so much for joining us.
 
KASEYA: Thank you so much.
 
GOLODRYGA: And staying in Africa, the government of Namibia is taking a drastic step to deal with its worst drought in a century.
 
Namibia is planning to kill more than 700 wild animals and distribute the meat to people struggling with food insecurity due to the drought. About 
 
 half of Namibia's population is expected to face high levels of acute food insecurity.
 
And among the animals being killed, elephants, hippos, buffalo, impala, wildebeest, and zebras.
 
Let's bring in our Larry Madowo with the latest details.
 
Larry, it is quite stunning that it's come to this. Talk to us about the severe crisis the government is facing right now to resort to these 
 
 measures.
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In a way, Bianna, Namibia has been forced to do this, 723 wild animals to try and help alleviate the suffering coming 
 
 from this record drought they're facing. About half of the population expected to face acute food insecurity.
 
And so these 83 elephants, buffaloes, impalas, wildebeests, and other wild animals in this culling program will be distributed. The meat will be 
 
 distributed to people who are facing insecurity -- food insecurity across the country.
 
And in a way, this could only happen in Namibia, which has part of Southern Africa, has a population of elephants about 200,000 people -- 200,000 
 
 elephants, but also where people eat game meat.
 
Already about 150 animals have been killed in this program and they have provided more than 125,000 pounds of game meat.
 
So the way the government of Namibia is explaining this is that the animals identified will come from areas, national parks, and game reserves where 
 
 they have sustainable numbers, and they will be killed by professional hunters and distributed to people, especially in rural areas that are 
 
 facing acute food insecurity.
 
But the other part of this is that Namibia is facing serious problems with having enough grazing land, enough water for the animals and the people. 
 
 And they've been seeing some serious cases of human wildlife conflict, especially with elephants.
 
And the 83 elephants identified here are from conflict areas where already you see people getting killed by elephants. You see the population 
 
 sometimes trying to revenge back on the animals.
 
So part of this is to depopulate the population of elephants in Namibia and make sure that when there's limited water, when there's limited grazing 
 
 land, you don't see increased cases of human wildlife conflict.
 
And it's something that could only happen, like I said, in Southern Africa, because in many of the parts of the world, including here in East Africa, 
 
 these wild animals are protected and even killing them, hunting is illegal, and attracts very high fines, Bianna.
 
GOLODRYGA: Still a very disturbing story, obviously. The food insecurity is a top priority for the country to address, but having to resort to killing 
 
 precious wildlife is really upsetting as well.
 
Larry Madowo, thank you so much.
 
And still to come for us, overwhelmed and burned out? Well, the stress of being a parent is now considered, get this, a public health issue in the 
 
 United States. Give you more details, up ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:15]
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Time now for a look at how a Kenyan-based company is helping to boost farming in Africa.
 
SunCulture is a solar powered irrigation company that's working with small farms to increase their yields and their economic opportunities. Take a 
 
 look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOSHUA MURIMA, HEAD OF ENGAGEMENT AND INVESTOR RELATIONS BRITER BRIDGES: There's no running away from the fact that agriculture is somewhat the 
 
 backbone of the African continent.
 
There's been opportunities, especially for digital innovation, (INAUDIBLE) within the space.
 
SAMIR IBRAHIM, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CO-FOUNDER, SUNCULTURE: The problem we're trying to solve is that smallholder farmers in Africa are 
 
 incredibly unproductive. When you look at smallholder farmers around the world, they use irrigation to increase their yields and to keep animals.
 
But because both the water pumps and the fuel for water pumps in Africa are too expensive, of the 700 million people living in smallholder farming 
 
 households, only four percent irrigate.
 
The business right now is we sell and install and we finance solar irrigation systems. So as part of the package, the farmers getting a solar 
 
 panel, electronics, a water pump, irrigation systems, they're getting insulation, they're getting training, they're going ongoing aftersales 
 
 support.
 
And now we're starting to sell other products like soil tests and insurance.
 
When we started our business, the cheapest way to do what we're doing was $25,000 per farmer. We're selling things to farmers for $350. The farmers 
 
 paying us a deposit of $40 or $50 and then paying us a monthly installment of $12 or $13 to totally transform their lives, to totally increase their 
 
 incomes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My farm is slightly more than half an acre. I have over 30 vegetables, mostly traditional vegetables.
 
Since I started using the solar pump, the impact have been so massive. I'm able to pump the water more than six hours per day. I'm able to water 
 
 without thinking or how the cost will be.
 
Production has increased more than four times. The production goes up.
 
IBRAHIM: Imagine a world in which a smallholder farmer on their phone is seeing how much their device is being used. They're getting advice on when 
 
 to irrigate. They're getting soil tests sent to them. They can open their soil test. They can then buy inputs that the soil test recommends. They can 
 
 buy an insurance product that protects their family, et cetera, et cetera.
 
And I think that's a very, very near future for smallholder farmers. And that's something we're very proud to be building with them.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:32]
 
GOLODRYGA: AT&amp;T's wireless customers are back online at this hour. The carrier says it resolved a software issue that caused an outage for some 
 
 customers in the U.S. on Tuesday.
 
According to one internet monitoring site, service was down from 5:00 to 7:00 P.M. Eastern Tuesday.
 
A two-hour outage may not sound serious, but some government agencies warned that it may prevent customers from calling 911 in an emergency.
 
That's also the reason on Monday that AT&amp;T was fine nearly a million dollars over an outage last year.
 
Well, if you're a parent, you know this, raising children is hard. Now, the U.S. Surgeon General is weighing in as well.
 
In a new advisory, Vivek Murthy, declared that parental stress is a significant public health issue. He says parents are overwhelmed and burnt 
 
 out and pushed to the brink. He's calling for programs to address the issue.
 
Let's bring CNN health reporter, Jacqueline Howard, with more on this.
 
It's fascinating to hear the Surgeon General really weigh in on these issues from mental health to parenting.
 
Jacqueline, many parents watching may say firsthand that they are always stressed, but how big of an issue is this? And what does the Surgeon 
 
 General have to say about this?
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: That's right, Bianna. Many parents out there are probably saying, I know I'm stressed. This is not new 
 
 information.
 
But what this new Surgeon General advisory now tells us is about 33 percent of parents have reported feeling high levels of stress in the past month. 
 
 And that's more than the share of other adults who report feeling high levels of stress which is about only 20 percent of other adults report 
 
 this.
 
So we are seeing this high level of stress specifically among parents and that's what U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy is really shedding a 
 
 light on.
 
Just recently, his office put out this video of him talking about the importance of identifying parental stress as a public health issue. Have a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VIVEK MURTHY, U.S. SURGEON GENERAL: Parents and caregivers in America are under pressure. As a father of two kids, I feel this pressure too.
 
Raising children has always been a rewarding but stressful job. They're the usual difficulties of parenting, dealing with financial concerns, worrying 
 
 about our kid's health and safety, and getting through the teenage years.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOWARD: And, Bianna, outside of those kind of traditional stressors, when it comes to parenting, we now live in a society where we have the added 
 
 stress of social media.
 
We're currently in a youth mental health crisis, and the Surgeon General says, here in the United States, we're experiencing a loneliness epidemic.
 
So these are all factors that are adding to the stress levels that parents are currently experiencing making this, according to the Surgeon General an 
 
 urgent public health concern.
 
GOLODRYGA: So good on the Surgeon General for addressing this. What is he saying in terms of recommendations on how to deal with it though?
 
HOWARD: Right. He did recommend when it comes to policy to have a national, medical, and family paid leave program.
 
When it comes to society, he says that we need to screen parents and caregivers for mental health conditions. He also calls for more research on 
 
 parental stress. And then at the individual personal level, he said that for parents who are feeling stressed out to lean on your peers, other 
 
 parents to really build that support system and build that community.
 <br>[12:55:02]
 
And also, don't shy away from taking time for yourself to really focus on self-care. Those are just some of the recommendations that the Surgeon 
 
 General has in his new advisory.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. And I will point to the Surgeon General's recommendations next time. I'll ask Zain to babysit for me when she's back.
 
Jacqueline Howard, thank you so much.
 
Well, Naomi Osaka beat Latvia's Jelena Ostapenko in the first round of the U.S. Open on Tuesday, but her performance wasn't the only thing turning 
 
 heads on the court.
 
Osaka wore a giant green bow as part of her outfit. The two-time U.S. Open champion says she was embracing being more flamboyant and her tennis outfit 
 
 gives her, quote, a different strength. I thought that green looks really good on her.
 
This was Osaka's first win over a top 10 player in more than four years.
 
Well, that does it for this hour of ONE WORLD. Thanks so much for watching. I'm Bianna Golodryga. "AMANPOUR" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END
 
END