Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Blinken In Riyadh To Press Ceasefire, Hostage Talks; Pro-Palestinian Protests Shake U.S. College Campus; Sanders Supports Pro-Palestinian Protests, Condemns Bigotry. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired April 29, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:45]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Welcome to the second hour of CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Erica Hill in New York in today for my colleague Becky 
 
 Anderson. America's top diplomat is back in the Middle East for a seventh time since the start of the Israel-Hamas War. On this visit, Anthony 
 
 Blinken's meetings come amid new signs of progress and finally securing a ceasefire for Gaza. Blinken is meeting with regional foreign ministers and 
 
 other top diplomats at a special world economic forum meeting in Riyadh.
 
It's all happening while a Hamas delegation is in Cairo discussing a new framework for a ceasefire. Blinken is urging Hamas to accept that deal. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: Hamas has before to proposal that is extraordinarily, extraordinarily generous on the part of 
 
 Israel. And in this moment, the only thing standing between the people of Gaza and the ceasefire is Hamas.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: As talks continue, Rafah is still being targeted by Israeli airstrikes ahead of a promised Israeli ground incursion. Hospital officials 
 
 there report at least 20 people have been killed, including an infant and a toddler.
 
Jeremy Diamond is connecting us this hour from Jerusalem and Kylie Atwood is standing by at the State Department in Washington. Let's go first to 
 
 Jeremy there on the ground. Jeremy, give us a better sense of where things stand on this Monday, especially when it comes to some of those 
 
 discussions.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, at this point, Erica, only a ceasefire and hostage deal could prevent the Israeli military from 
 
 going into Rafah and carrying out that long-promised ground offensive. And the next few days will be critical to seeing whether or not that deal can 
 
 indeed be achieved. I'm told that the Egyptians now have a new framework that is on the table for Hamas to review.
 
It was submitted with Israeli input, crafted with Israeli input, but not all of the points have been agreed to by Israel. But the next coming -- 
 
 next couple of days are going to be key to seeing whether or not what's in this framework is enough for Hamas to be willing to at least move forward 
 
 with negotiations or perhaps whether this week could spell the end of those negotiations for the time being and instead a Rafah offensive to be 
 
 launched.
 
This latest framework, I'm told, would see 20 to 33 Israeli hostages released over the course of several weeks with about one day of ceasefire 
 
 for every hostage release. But then what would follow that would be effectively a one-year ceasefire or what these officials are calling the 
 
 restoration of sustainable calm, diplomatic speak to effectively avoid talking about a permanent ceasefire in writing here.
 
And there is a delicate dance to be had here over whether or not over the timing of this first phase of the agreement that would see those 20 to 33 
 
 hostages released. And then this kind of longer term more comprehensive agreement, which would see not only the remaining Israeli hostages as well 
 
 as the bodies of dead hostages released, but also of course an end to the war, the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip.
 
Something that Hamas has been insisting on in order to even begin to move forward with the first phase of this agreement. So critical days ahead to 
 
 determine the possibility of this happening. And we know, of course, that the United States says that they believe that the ball now is in Hamas's 
 
 court.
 
HILL: Yes, absolutely. And welcome to you to watch for those developments. Jeremy, appreciate it. Thank you.
 
As part of the discussion here in the U.S., colleges are really struggling to contain an increasing number of pro-Palestinian protests.
 
The situation turning violent on Sunday at UCLA when physical altercations broke out between rival protest groups after security barrier was breached. 
 
 Also take a look at this intense protest on the other side of the country. This one in Virginia Tech.
 
Heavy police activity was reported on Sunday. Officers making arrests and then did work to remove demonstrations from an on campus in Campman. An 
 
 Atlanta, faculty at Emory University are pushing for a no confidence vote of the university's president following last week's violent arrests at a 
 
 protest site on campus. U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders for his part expressing support for the ongoing pro-Palestinian protests on U.S. college campuses 
 
 but also telling CNN anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry must be condemned. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[10:05:08]
 
BERNIE SANDERS, UNITED STATES SENATE INDEPENDENT: Right now what Netanyahu's right wing extremist and racist government is doing is 
 
 unprecedented in the modern history of warfare. They have killed in the last 6-1/2 months 33,000 Palestinians, wounded 77,000, two-thirds of whom 
 
 are women and children. They have destroyed over 60 percent of the housing. They have destroyed the health care system.
 
They have destroyed the infrastructure, no electricity, very little water. And right now, we are looking at the possibility of mass starvation and 
 
 famine in Gaza. When you make those charges, that is not anti-Semitic. That is a reality. So, our job is to condemn Hamas, a terrorist organization 
 
 that started this war, condemn in every form anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, and other forms of bigotry.
 
But we do have to pay attention to the disastrous and unprecedented humanitarian disaster taking place in Gaza right now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: It is such a strong point of discussion here in the United States, and we are seeing more and more of these demonstrations. CNN's Gabe Cohen 
 
 is joining us now from George Washington University in Washington, D.C. Those protests at G.W. spilling out beyond the campus, Gabe.
 
GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Erica. That is right. Intensions have been rising overnight. If you look behind me, you can see a whole bunch of 
 
 barricades that are piled up in the middle of university yard here with that Palestinian flag posted on top of it. What happened overnight, those 
 
 barricades had been surrounding this small part of the yard here where there were these groups of tents.
 
Just about 20 campers were left from this now, days-long protest. But overnight there was this incident, and they decided all of these protesters 
 
 to pull up those barricades. As you can see, so many more tents have come into the yard, and this is what H Street, just outside G.W.'s property, 
 
 looks like here. The protest has only been growing, and the big question as we enter Monday morning is when, if at all, will D.C. police come in and 
 
 clear out these protests?
 
Up to this point, they have said they really don't want the optics of that. They don't want to be removing tents and potentially arresting these 
 
 protesters who have said that they are not going to leave, even if it means being arrested, that they have these demands for G.W. and for some of the 
 
 other schools in the D.C. area to divest from anything connected to Israel and the Israeli government.
 
So, again, we're waiting to see how the school and MPD Police, I should say, how they respond, Erica, but those tensions are still rising this 
 
 morning, and we'll bring you more as soon as we have it.
 
HILL: Yes. As we continue to follow. Gabe, I really appreciate the update there. This topic, of course, not just happening here, not just being 
 
 discussed here in the U.S., but of course abroad as well. We are seeing demonstrations rise in other areas across the globe, and as we know, 
 
 Secretary of State Anthony Blinken, of course, in Saudi Arabia.
 
Kylie Atwood joining us now from the State Department. The Secretary making some comments about what we have seen in terms of these protests, Kylie. 
 
 What more can you tell us?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Well, Erica, I spoke with him late last week and what he said about the protests is that 
 
 they are not in and of themselves, anti-Semitic, though he said that there are specific comments that have been coming out of some of these protesters 
 
 that are anti-Semitic and he called into question, of course, any of the chants that have been pro-Hamas chants, you know, saying, you know, what in 
 
 the world do they mean by that?
 
So, he was very clear to say that the administration is watching these protests. I asked him how these protests may impact Biden administration 
 
 policy, and he said simply that the administration listens to the American people, but he didn't get any specific detail as to how these protests 
 
 could impact Biden administration policy. And I think that's an area for us to continue watching as these protests are only spreading across the 
 
 country.
 
And of course, the backdrop today, Erica, is that the secretary is in Saudi Arabia. He said earlier this morning that the new proposal that has been 
 
 put on the table from Israel to Hamas to try and secure this ceasefire, and of course, the release of hostages is in his words, extraordinarily 
 
 generous proposal. He urged Hamas to take up and accept that proposal, as he has been doing for some time now, saying that this back and forth 
 
 between the two sides, the onus is really on Hamas to accept what Israel has put on the table here.
 
And as you were speaking earlier with Jeremy, time is of the essence because it's very clear that Israel has plans to go into Rafah if there 
 
 isn't a ceasefire agreement and U.S. officials are keenly aware of that. Of course, the secretary is trying to push all momentum towards the ceasefire 
 
 while he's in Saudi Arabia and while these negotiators are meeting in Egypt today.
 <br>[10:10:11]
 
HILL: It is of the essence. Kylie, appreciate it. Thank you.
 
Just ahead here, dozens are dead. Homes washed away, trees uprooted, a massive dam collapse in southern Kenya adding to the misery there. After 
 
 weeks of heavy rain and flooding will take you to the scene. Live.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: A new CNN poll finds high levels of disapproval when it comes to Joe Biden's handling of the conflict in Gaza. 71 percent of respondents say 
 
 they don't like the way the U.S. President has handled the war between Israel and Hamas. That number is 81 percent. If you look at those between 
 
 the ages of 18 and 34. That CNN poll also asked registered voters about the presidential race finding that Donald Trump leads Biden in that head-to-
 
 head matchup.
 
CNN's Political Director David Chalian enjoys this now from Washington with a closer look at the latest polling. It had been sort of narrowing, I 
 
 guess, a little bit from what we've seen in a lot of the polling. The space between Joe Biden and Donald Trump. But we're seeing Trump eke out ahead 
 
 here.
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Yes. And I should just -- we'll do a little bit of a quick lesson on poll reading for everyone watching. Erica. 
 
 Focus less on the margin between the two candidates and understand each candidate's level of support. And I think you see a remarkably consistent 
 
 race across our polling for the last eight months. Donald Trump's support level has been within a narrow band of two percentage points, somewhere 
 
 between 47 and 49 percent.
 
Joe Biden's support level has been within a narrow band of three points, between 43 and 46 percent. That's all within the margin of error. So, this 
 
 race has been a remarkably consistent one showing a Trump lead for the most part. And again, this is nationally, and that's not, of course, how we 
 
 actually elect presidents here in the U.S. It's an electoral college camp, but today it is 49 percent to 43 percent in our poll with about six months 
 
 to go in this race. 
 
Obviously, this is not predictive. This is just the snapshot of where things are now, Erica. One thing I would just note is on the issue matrix, 
 
 yes, the economy is the most important issue for voters. There's no doubt about that. And Joe Biden's economic rating is at 34 percent approval. It 
 
 is below his overall approval rating at 40 percent. So that's a clear trouble spot on issue number one for voters for the president. But that 
 
 Israel-Hamas war issue is even worse, Erica.
 
HILL: It is. So, looking at those numbers, right, we touched on this coming out of the break, but I'd love to go back to that with you. 71 percent to 
 
 the disapprove of Biden's handling of the Israel-Hamas war, but that number is at 80 -- 71 is already high. 81 percent among younger voters, those ages 
 
 18 to 34.
 <br>[10:15:04]
 
That block alone is a major concern for Democrats heading into November. And I would imagine this is certainly not helping.
 
CHALIAN: There's no doubt it's not helping. There's no doubt about that. It is a major concern. This is a major potential pitfall with a key voting 
 
 block. But I will also note some recent survey work done by the Institute of Politics at Harvard, a deep dive into the youth vote, found that the 
 
 Israel-Hamas issue, while overwhelmingly young voters are opposed to the way Biden's handling it, is not the top issue on their mind.
 
They also are economy voters in this election, according to that survey. But this was a key part of the Biden coalition, the winning coalition in 
 
 2020, young voters, and keeping them enthused and engaged and supporting Biden for these next six months. There's no doubt that this Israel-Hamas 
 
 issue complicates that. As does, Erica, this whole notion of just with more time since the Trump presidency, Americans seem to have a rosier view of 
 
 the Trump presidency than they do of being in it with Biden right now. 55 percent call the Trump presidency a success.
 
That is a complete reversal from where Americans were when the Trump presidency ended and they were assessing it in real time. But with a little 
 
 bit of distance, a majority say that was a success, whereas 61 percent of Americans in this poll call the Biden presidency a failure. So, the Biden 
 
 team also is going to have the challenge of reminding voters of what those chaotic four years were like because in their hazy memory, things are not 
 
 quite as they assessed it at the time.
 
HILL: Yes. And interesting to see how well that will work. We know that's what the Biden team has been trying and trying to focus on. But as you 
 
 point out all these other issues, I was also struck by something in our CNN polling. And you and I had a brief e-mail conversation about this earlier. 
 
 But we talk so often about how divided this country is and Americans talk so often about how divided this country is.
 
The fact that a very high number, 71 percent of Trump supporters say they don't understand why anybody would back Biden. 67 percent of Biden 
 
 supporters say they can't understand why anyone would back Trump. I mean, this really just illustrates where things are in this country. 
 
CHALIAN: Perfectly illustrates. I think in one poll question, here is the story of the American body politic. It is just an unbelievably polarized 
 
 time. It's not just that you're choosing one candidate over the other. It's that in choosing your candidate, you can't even fathom why anybody would 
 
 support the other person. So, think about that when you think about your neighbors and coworkers and all the people you interact with.
 
If you have chosen a candidate this race, you can't even understand why somebody else would go in a different way. We live in such polarized times 
 
 we sort ourselves geographically through our politics these days in America. And that's what makes this race, which has so many unique 
 
 circumstances about it, given Trump on trial and Biden's low standing, still I think a rather unpredictable race because it's going to be so 
 
 dependent on turning out your own supporters come election day.
 
HILL: Yes. It is going to be fascinating to watch. And it is certainly great job security for you, my friend. That's for sure.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HILL: Always appreciate talking to you, David.
 
CHALIAN: Take care.
 
HILL: Reuters is reporting Haiti's transitional council is planning to meet tomorrow to choose an interim president. Now this is a key step, of course, 
 
 toward getting the anarchy that has been gripping the country under control. Important to remember that Haiti has not had a functioning 
 
 government in years. The nation, of course, has just been overcome by violence by dysfunction armed gangs, maintaining a stranglehold on the 
 
 Capitol.
 
What exactly do those gangs want? CNN's David Culver traveled inside gang territory to speak with one influential figure who also happens to be on 
 
 the FBI's most wanted list. There's David's exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This war-torn intersection in Port-au- Prince is the blurred boundary, signaling we are now in gang territory.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is an area we have never been into before.
 
CULVER: We're told to drive to this road and someone will meet us.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's assured us that he's sending somebody and so we are to just wait for that person. It looks like a vehicle here, the truck.
 
CULVER: The armed men in the front seat motion for us to follow, so we do. Over rocky and flooded streets. We're venturing deeper into land that for 
 
 months Haitian security experts have warned, stay away from. But we've been assured by this gang's leader that we'll be safe. We only hope his 
 
 messaging reached all the checkpoints.
 
Four guys in the car behind us as well. So, they're fully escorting us in. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (INAUDIBLE) motorbike with the two guys.
 
CULVER: After 45 minutes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're asking us to move.
 
CULVER: Several dozen masked men and women most carrying guns direct us towards the driveway.
 
This guy in front of us now seeming to be leading us to some sort of a house. Good.
 
We're about to step out and meet Vitel'homme Innocent considered by both U.S. and Haitian authorities to be a violent criminal and leader of the 
 
 cross-barrier gang.
 <br>[10:20:17]
 
He's one of the FBI's 10 most wanted with a bounty of up to $2 million accused in the kidnapping of American missionaries and the death of another 
 
 American hostage. Vitel'homme rarely seeks media attention. Yet given he commands what some U.S. officials say is the largest gang in Port-au-
 
 Prince, and his domain includes the U.S. embassy, we wanted to better understand his motives.
 
Vitel'homme agrees to meet us.
 
Hi there.
 
On his turf.
 
I'm David.
 
Flanked by his followers, he leads us inside this flashy mansion.
 
And so, is this your home? 
 
VITEL'HOMME INNOCENT, LEADER, KRAZE BARYE: Yes. 
 
CULVER: In a room filled with gold-rimmed furniture and stuffed animals, I ask him about the crisis in Gulf in Haiti. 
 
Our dream is to rid the country of the corrupt oligarchs and politicians who are holding us back, he says. We need to get rid of the system and 
 
 return stability to Haiti. He speaks with intention and calls for greater dialogue.
 
But if it's the same system that's been in power, then as armed groups, we will never put down our weapons, he says.
 
And so, do you have regular communications with, as you say, the other armed groups?
 
Yes, we're united, he tells me. The gangs have formed a coalition known as Viv Ansanm or living together, and collectively they push back on foreign 
 
 intervention, holding tight their grips over a fractured state. Some using terror tactics like kidnapping, rape and murder to sustain control.
 
CULVER: Is that something you've participated in in ordering your men and women to kidnap? 
 
He says he hopes to defend himself in court against those allegations, and while not denying his followers have kidnapped people, he deflects blame to 
 
 outside forces for creating a state of corruption as he sees it. He's eager to show us other parts of his home and territory and introduces us to his 
 
 top commander.
 
CULVER: So you're his cousin.
 
Security experts suggest Kraze Barye has more than 1,000-armed gang members, including recently escaped inmates.
 
As you can see, a lot of his armed soldiers and followers are around us. And he's suggesting that we follow and drive with them.
 
He brings us to the edge of his territory. We notice his guards, normally curious and watching us, are instead looking outward, cautiously toward 
 
 another gang's territory, a reminder that the coalition of gangs might be more fragile than portrayed. In the midst of our tour, a disturbing video 
 
 starts circulating on WhatsApp. It reportedly shows the devastating and deadly aftermath of an allied gang attack on a community a few miles from 
 
 where we are.
 
The destruction, the violence, the deaths that have played out. Do you take any responsibility for that?
 
He only says he made mistakes and is not perfect. He blames politicians. We're interrupted. Something nearby puts his guards on edge. We pick up the 
 
 conversation a short distance away. Senior editor Caitlin Hu further pressing for an explanation to the horrors we've seen in Haiti. 
 
CAITLIN HU, CNN SENIOR EDITOR: But we have also met in hospitals, women, children, innocent people who have been burned, who have been forced to 
 
 leave their homes, who have been shocked, who have been raped. Why are innocent people suffering in this struggle?
 
CULVER: He does not clearly answer. Instead, he frames the months of deadly street violence as collateral damage. He points the finger at police, 
 
 saying they refuse to engage in dialogue and instead recklessly open fire. Police say they're desperately trying to keep the gangs from gaining more 
 
 ground. Vitel'homme claims to be a man of faith, devout and practicing voodoo, a common religion here in Haiti.
 
I've heard rumors and I don't know how true they are, so I ask you that you have voodoo protection. Do you feel that protection?
 
Yes. He tells me confidently. Adding that he prays daily for his fellow Haitians.
 
Ultimately, what is it going to take to bring stability and a future of calm to this country?
 
He says he and the other armed groups need to be included in discussions of Haiti's future. That's the only way he sees convincing gang members to drop 
 
 their guns in exchange for a future outside of violence.
 
As curfew nears, we head back the way we came. Vitel'homme stopping several times along the way, mingling with locals, handing out food, smiling as 
 
 though on a campaign trail.
 <br>[10:25:07]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're getting out.
 
CULVER: He wants us to meet these two men. Blind refugees. They tell us Vitel'homme took them in. But it leaves us wondering why help these men and 
 
 force so many others out of their homes. Look at the actions over words he tells me. As we near the edge of his territory and the end of our five-hour 
 
 visit. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let's not hanging around here (INAUDIBLE) 
 
CULVER: Vitel'homme gets out of his motorcade, waves for us to move forward, and strolls to the desolate street corner. He then comes to our 
 
 door and shakes each of our hands, his actions, intentional, and symbolic.
 
Here we are, just blocks in the U.S. embassy and that's clearly a demonstration of how confident he is and the many he has around him, 
 
 displaying their show of force.
 
A flexing of strength in a lawless nation, where today at least gangs hold the power.
 
David Culver CNN, Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: Important reporting from David and his team there. Stay with us, we're back after this quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: Welcome back to CONNECT THE WORLD. More than 100 people are now confirmed dead after weeks of flooding in Kenya. Dozens were killed in a 
 
 dam burst in north of Nairobi, torrents of water washing away homes and cars. As you can see here from the video, just uprooting trees, roads are 
 
 understandably blocked and dozens at this hour remain missing. It is feared more bodies could be found in the mud.
 
Parts of East Africa have been hit hard by heavy rains this spring. Some experts are attributed to climate change and they do warn more rain is on 
 
 the way.
 
CNN's Larry Madowo is joining us now live. Such treacherous conditions as well, Larry, as they tried to dig through some of that mud and that rubble.
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's correct. We're in a location where overnight flash flooding led to some massive devastation. So far, 71 people 
 
 have died here and they fear that more may still be buried under the rubble and the mud.
 <br>[10:30:06]
 
So, what we're seeing here are first responders from the Kenya Red Cross. They've been told by locals that they've been hearing a fawn vibrating, and 
 
 they think they could be someone or some people still buried under here. So, what they're trying to do is to clear these trees that have gathered 
 
 here, some iron sheets, the roofing of what was definitely a house that was blocked by that fence and some rocks that were used in building the house 
 
 to see if they can figure out what's happening under there.
 
Is it just a phone that's on its own or is there an owner of that phone that's still buried under here? And that is a search and rescue operation 
 
 that's been happening throughout the day here in Maai Mahiu, just about an hour and a half, northwest of Nairobi. This entire field was a path of the 
 
 water overnight, and it swept through everything in its path, the homes that were here, the people that were here, and everything they owned is all 
 
 gone.
 
A good example is over there. You can see a car that's partially lodged on a tree. That car was swept almost 500 meters from the hills to get there. 
 
 The only reason why it stopped there is because there's several trees blocking its way, but that's been the devastation seen here. In this -- 
 
 Maai Mahiu is a town in this reef valley, they've seen some previous flooding but nothing to this extent.
 
Previous reporting said it was a dam that's burst its banks, but local says that is not exactly what happened here. There is an old railway line here 
 
 with a culvert, a tunnel under it that was blocked because of continuous rainfall, and yesterday the water just blew right through it, and swept 
 
 through everything in its path. This is the worst devastation Kenya has seen since the rains began back in March.
 
Overall, nationwide, at least 103 people have died from these heavy rains in Nairobi and other parts of the country. The government has had to 
 
 postpone the reopening of schools nationwide for at least a week to avoid endangerment the lives of learners and there's been people in different 
 
 parts of the country trying to cross some rivers, getting swept away, people being asked to move to higher ground.
 
Some of the worst devastation is here in Kenya, but it's across the region in Tanzania, like you mentioned, 155 people confirmed dead. It's a problem 
 
 across the region that still the forecast says more rain is coming.
 
HILL: More rain, which is of course what no one wants to hear. You mentioned the government closing down schools over safety concerns. What 
 
 else has been the government response specifically in the area where you are now in the wake of that potential dam break?
 
MADOWO: The government has set up a multi-agency team to respond to the heavy rains and the flooding that has come from it, and they have a center 
 
 here set up in this town for family members to report any of their missing kin, and they're also sheltering them in nearby schools. But I think a lot 
 
 of the work is being done by people like this, people who, from the Red Cross and other agencies, trying to just salvage orders as possible to find 
 
 survivors and make sure that everybody is accounted for within meeting people here telling us they don't have people who are -- that still have 
 
 family members missing.
 
(INAUDIBLE) I just want to show everybody what's happening over here. Even though the devastation in human life has been exceptional, there's also a 
 
 lot of livestock that we've seen. Over there is -- I believe that is -- that's a sheep that they're carrying there that was killed in this, just 
 
 over here on the other side of this place, they're clearing, is a full, probably four or five-year-old cow that's just kind of transfixed in the 
 
 moment despite of the devastation that the -- people here, the animals, everything that path -- the path of the water did not survive, Erica.
 
HILL: It is a lot to endure and more on the way, as you noted. Larry, really important to have you there, thank you.
 
Let's get you up to speed now and some of the other international stories on our radar at this hour. Protesters in Georgia denouncing the 
 
 government's efforts there to force through a controversial Russian style foreign agents bill, thousands marching on Sunday. The bill itself would 
 
 require organizations receiving more than 20 percent of funding from abroad to register as foreign agents or face huge fines.
 
Protesters say it would be used to crush dissent. The E.U. says the bill could halt Georgia's integration into the block as for protesters, many 
 
 believe their future is in the West.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEVAN JOBAVA, PROTESTER (through translator): I want to show the position of my family, (INAUDIBLE) Russia and our path in future is in Europe 
 
 because we believe that the European justice and the European world where the system serves the people and not the other way around. The system 
 
 doesn't serve the people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: The bill faces two more readings in Parliament. The next one is on Tuesday.
 
Pedro Sanchez has announced he will not resign from his post to Spanish Prime Minister. The announcement coming just five days after he temporarily 
 
 abandoned his public duties to decide whether he could continue his job. That of course came after a Spanish court had launched an investigation 
 
 into his wife over allegations of corruption. Sanchez said she -- that his wife would defend herself and cooperate with the judicial system.
 <br>[10:35:01]
 
It is no secret that politics can be a rather brutal business. Now that's the word now from Scottish First Minister Humza Yousaf at his resignation 
 
 speech. He quit earlier on Monday following a power sharing agreement that collapsed with the Scottish Green Party. His resignation cuts off a likely 
 
 no confidence vote in both his leadership and the minority government. Yousaf says he will stay on until his new party chooses a new leader.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUMZA YOUSAF, PRIME MINISTER OF SCOTLAND: Therefore, I have to spend the weekend reflecting on what is based for my party, for the government and 
 
 for the country I lead. I've concluded that repeating our relationship across the political divide can only be done to someone else at the helm. I 
 
 have their form formed the SMP's National Secretary of my intention to stand down as party leader and ask that she commands his leadership contest 
 
 for my replacement as soon as possible.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: French actor Gerard Depardieu has been taken into custody by police in Paris. According to CNN affiliate BFMTV. The 75-year-old is now being 
 
 questioned over sexual assault allegations, leveled by two women who say the assaults happen on film sets. Depardieu previously been placed under 
 
 investigation for alleged rape and assault after a number of women filed complaints against him. The French actor has maintained his innocence 
 
 denying those accusations.
 
You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD and there is much more news ahead. We're going to take a quick break. We'll see you on the other side.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: The U.S. Secretary of State is back in the Middle East for the seventh time since the story of the Israel Hamas war and is urging Hamas to 
 
 accept the latest framework for a Gaza ceasefire. Antony Blinken meeting today with regional foreign ministers and other top diplomats at a special 
 
 forum, a special world economic forum meeting rather in Riyadh. It comes as a Hamas delegation in Cairo is there to discuss the new proposal for a 
 
 truce which calls for the release of Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners over the span of several weeks in exchange for a temporary 
 
 ceasefire and the "restoration of sustainable calm."
 
I want to play for you a little bit more from that meeting when the Saudi foreign minister was asked specifically about the situation in Gaza and 
 
 Saudi Arabia's role. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FAISAL BIN FARHAN AL SAUD, MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, THE KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARABIA: Situation on Gaza obviously is a catastrophe by every 
 
 measure. Humanitarian but also a complete failing of the existing political system to deal with that crisis.
 
We in the region are not going to focus only on solving the crisis of the moment. We are going to look at how we can solve the bigger problem in the 
 
 context of Gaza. That is a real commitment to a two-state solution. That is a credible irreversible path to a Palestinian state. That's the only 
 
 reasonable and credible solution that guarantees us from not having to come back to this same situation two, three, four years down the line.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[10:40:06]
 
HILL: The Saudi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs also pointing to reduce conflict in the region. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADEL AL-JUBEIR, MINISTER OF STATE FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS, SAUDI ARABIA: Our objective is to link the region with the world and to be able to put the 
 
 resources of the region together so we can create synergies that have a positive impact on all the inhabitants of the region. This is complicated 
 
 by the tensions that we have in the region. So, our objective is to try to put an end to these tensions so we can focus on the things that matter, 
 
 economic development, and prosperity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: The crisis in Gaza understandably top of mind of the World Economic Forum conference. That is where my colleague Becky Anderson sat down with 
 
 the forum's president. They began by speaking about the future of the enclave and what will be needed to help rebuild.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BORGE BRENDE, PRESIDENT, WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM: There will be no willingness among any donors to rebuild Gaza if there is no guarantee that there will 
 
 not be a Gaza war again, because who will rebuild something that will be bombed again?
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: That means an irreversible path to Palestinian statehood. From the conversations that you are having here, 
 
 and these are around a unified Arab strategy for Gaza and Palestinians going forward, is your sense that we are close?
 
BRENDE: I think with the ceasefire in Gaza, at least there will be a willingness to have real political discussions. What is in it for Israel 
 
 is, of course, a potential deal with, for example, Saudi Arabia. And so, the Arabia will then gain additional support from the U.S. on the military 
 
 side. But we know that this has taken time also before. And I guess there is also complications with the political situation in Israel.
 
Is there a willingness to work for a two-state solution? And then we have the American elections coming up, too, that some people say that it is not 
 
 possible to move before after those elections. Because a plan, though, I think, has to also be supported very strongly from outside. You will have 
 
 to have the Arab countries and the U.S. and other key players saying, this is the deal. Take it all of it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Important points, of course. As in terms of the economic picture for the region, it is not defined, of course, by conflicts. It's incredibly 
 
 complex. The host of the World Economic Forum is a case in point. Here's more about Saudi Arabia's current trajectory.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRENDE: So, it is very significant that Saudi Arabia have reached already this big milestone of 50 percent of their economy is now based on non-oil 
 
 and gas. This was the plan for 2030 that the conference launched, and now we are in 2024. So, this is incredible. But we also see other GCCs that is 
 
 doing really well about UAE, also with their investments now in A.I. They have a lot of talent there, Qatar.
 
But then the Middle East is kind of true. There is the GCC. And then there are other Middle Eastern countries that are really, really struggling.
 
ANDERSON: I'm assuming that you will look at a country like the Kingdom and say here's a great example of how that kind of portfolio comes together 
 
 successfully. Again, how does one take what is going on here and around this region as a starter for 10 as it were when you're looking at the wider 
 
 world?
 
BRENDE: So, Saudi Arabia is now inviting investments that's important. We're seeing people also, expats coming to the Kingdom. And they also have 
 
 an open trade policy. They're reducing tariffs and they're not sticking to protectionism. The challenge globally is that trade was the engine of 
 
 growth for decades. So, trade was growing much faster than the global economy. No trade is growing slower.
 
Then that is also leading to more anemic growth. So, what we have to avoid is that the 20s become the 1970s.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: So, how do you avoid the 20s becoming the 1970s? Well, it's also important to look at some of the success stories of these past decades.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRENDE: So, we are faced with a re-globalization. It's a different globalization. I think on the global value change, we will not only have a 
 
 situation where you stick to comparative advantages. You will have near- shoring, partials or French-shoring that you then trade more with countries where you feel that you agree. But it's also very important that we don't 
 
 lose the baby with the buck for it, because this globalization has led to a situation where never seen so much poverty being eradicated.
 <br>[10:45:09]
 
In 1990, 40 percent of the global population lived in extreme poverty. Today it's 10 percent.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: I want you to watch for more developments out of Riyadh. Meantime here in the U.S., nearly 60 million people may have to soon decide between 
 
 paying for their internet access or food and other essentials. That's because a government program, which keeps low-income households online is 
 
 actually going to run out of money by Wednesday.
 
CNN's Jason Carroll has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CINDY WESTMAN, RECIPIENT, AFFORDABLE CONNECTIVITY PROGRAM: I have a growing child and with inflation of a cost of food, I don't have that much food 
 
 assistance.
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For Cindy Westman, times are tough, but manageable for now. She lives on disability and 
 
 carefully budgets each month to care for her 12-year-old daughter who has cerebral palsy and autism.
 
WESTMAN: I even have to, you know, budget when I have an oil change.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Now a program Westman relies on will run out of funding at the end of April, cutting off a critical lifeline for her and 
 
 millions of other low-income Americans. It's called the Affordable Connectivity Program, or ACP. The 2021 pandemic era benefit helps Americans 
 
 afford internet access. Crucial for rural Americans like Westman who use it for telehealth for her daughter, especially when service goes out in her 
 
 hometown of Eureka, Illinois.
 
WESTMAN: FEMALE: Having that funding allowed me to afford a portable hot spot backup internet that I was using for my daughter.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): The Federal Communications Commission warns the ACP will end unless Congress extends it, forcing more than 23 million American 
 
 households to either pay hundreds more for internet or go without it.
 
Widening a digital divide and not just in rural areas. Before the ACP, Milton Perez had to use free internet on the subway platform. He calls his 
 
 apartment an internet dead zone, which made taking his online classes nearly impossible.
 
MILTON PEREZ, RECIPIENT, AFFORDABLE CONNECTIVITY PROGRAM: I had to walk out to the front of the building to be connected to the class.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Perez, once homeless himself, works as an advocate for people experiencing homelessness. He now helps connect those still in 
 
 shelters to the internet.
 
PEREZ: Seeing during my shelter state, the difference between people who had internet access and that dating. And it could be deadly.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Millions of veterans also rely on the program like Walter Durham in San Diego. He uses the internet to contact doctors and to 
 
 chat with his daughter overseas.
 
WALTER DURHAM, RECIPIENT, AFFORDABLE CONNECTIVITY PROGRAM: I don't want to have to either do without Wi-Fi or I have to come up with other means to 
 
 pay for Wi-Fi. So -- because I can't count on the politicians doing anything to help the American people.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Legislation to extend the program has received bipartisan support, but like so much in Washington, the bill has stalled.
 
CARROLL (on camera): Is there anything that realistically can be done?
 
YVETTE CLARKE, UNITED STATES HOUSE DEMOCRAT: Absolutely. We need to make sure that that's bill comes to the floor to make sure that we can --
 
CARROLL (on camera): But it hasn't come to the floor so far.
 
CLARKE: It hasn't. It hasn't. However, you know, we still have time.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): President Biden has called on Republicans to do more to get the bill brought to a vote. Meanwhile, those who need it most have 
 
 little faith in lawmakers.
 
DURHAM: I would say most likely they're not going to do anything.
 
WESTMAN: They can pass things with a drop of a dime. And if there's on both sides of the party, you know, both parties and the other parties are going 
 
 to do something that's going to be the best. There should be zero resistance. And this should have been done yesterday instead of people 
 
 fearing that they're losing this one day.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Jason Carroll, CNN, Eureka, Illinois.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: When we return, Tesla CEO Elon Musk making a surprise visit to China to try to export his company's self-driving technology. So, what are the 
 
 chances? We have a report from Beijing. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:55]
 
HILL: The China Auto Show this year, it is all about the electrics, which could explain why Tesla's CEO Elon Musk made a surprise visit where he met 
 
 with senior trade officials. He was also there to promote Tesla's self- driving technology.
 
CNN's Marc Stewart was at the Auto Show and filed this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): This is Auto China, the largest car show in all of China, and one of the largest in the world. 
 
 There are a few gas-powered cars here, but the real focus is electric.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I came here mainly checking on E.V.'s. Now there are many E.V. brands, so there are lots of options.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): We like the standout eye-catching color.
 
STEWART (on camera): There are more than 200 E.V. makers in China. Take a look over here. This is the line to see the latest offering from Xiaomi. 
 
 It's a Chinese tech company known for its phones. This is the much talked about Xiaomi SU7. Yes, it has aerodynamic design. It can accelerate very 
 
 quickly. Its battery can take you for about 500 miles, but its most distinct point is this touchscreen. You can use it to control almost all 
 
 aspects of your life.
 
You can turn the lights in your home, on and off. It can even start the coffee menu. This isn't just about performance. Geo-Politics plays a role 
 
 too.
 
STEWART: Elon Musk flew to China over the weekend on a surprise trip and that Chinese Premier Li Qiang. Musk has his biggest overseas Tesla factory 
 
 in Shanghai, so he has big stakes in China. According to state media, Li said that China is open to foreign business and wants to make it easier for 
 
 global companies to come here. In addition, Musk said Tesla's Gigafactory in Shanghai is its best performing.
 
Tesla wants to be an even bigger player in the Chinese market in addition to its American base. 
 
ELON MUSK, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, TESLA: It's good to see electric vehicles making progress to China. All parts will be electric in the 
 
 future.
 
STEWART (voice-over): As a piece of American technology, Tesla faced lots of restrictions in China out of security concerns. Until this visit, Tesla 
 
 cars were sometimes not allowed to enter airports. Government compounds and other sensitive areas. Well, this time, after Musk met Li, Chinese 
 
 authorities announced that such restrictions on Tesla cars are no more because the company's China-made vehicles have passed the country's data 
 
 security requirements.
 
STEWART (on camera): As Elon Musk looks for success here in China, for Chinese car makers looking to break into the American market, that may not 
 
 be so easy. Top U.S. officials have expressed concern that Chinese cars could potentially collect data and send it back here to Beijing. A 
 
 potential blow for China, the world's largest auto-exporter.
 
Marc Stewart, CNA, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: There are just three weeks left in the English Premier League season and only two teams who can win the title. Manchester City and Arsenal. 
 
 World Sport's Don Riddell has more now on the fight to the finish.
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: The Premier League title race would now seem to be head-to-head between Manchester City and Arsenal. Liverpool 
 
 have kind of fallen away in recent weeks, so it's now down to the Gunners to challenge Man City and try to prevent them from becoming the first team 
 
 to win four consecutive crowns. But they had a tricky assignment on Sunday away at their bitter North London rivals Tottenham, and although Spurs play 
 
 well, Arsenal got the goals.
 
That's Bukayo Saka making it two-nil midway through the first half. And Arsenal were cruising when Kai Havertz made it three-nil in the 38th 
 
 minute. This was a frustrating day for Spurs. They had more possession, they had chances, but nothing dropped until the 64th minute when Cristian 
 
 Romero punished Arsenal's goalie for a dreadful mistake. And then, three minutes from time, Spurs really rattled their opponents for the penalty 
 
 from Son Heung-min.
 
Tottenham, though, unable to find another, so Arsenal held on for three crucial points. The Gunners must win every game and hope that Manchester 
 
 City somehow slip up, otherwise it is City's title to lose. It's in their hands right now. They picked up another three points on Sunday with a two-
 
 nil win at Nottingham Forest.
 <br>[10:55:04]
 
City's defender, Josko Gvardiol is having a wonderful month. That was his third goal in just five games, while Erling Haaland returned from injury 
 
 coming off the bench to make the point safe. That's his 21st Premier League goal of the season. Two-nil, the final score. So, here's the table. So, 
 
 here's the table. Arsenal still top. The Gunners are a point ahead of Man City, but City have a game in hand. Arsenal have just three matches left to 
 
 play. City have four.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERLING HAALAND, MANCHESTER CITY STRIKER: I think the most important thing is to not think, especially in these moments, about taking day by day 
 
 honestly, if you overthink you're going to be crazy in your head, so relax now. Enjoy. Focus on the next tone.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIDDELL: The story will continue on Saturday with both Arsenal and Man City playing their next Premier League games at home. Back to you.
 
HILL: All right, Don, thank you. That's going to do it for CONNECT THE WORLD. Stay with CNN NEWSROOM is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END