Headline: Erin Burnett Outfront
Sub-headline: Democratic National Convention. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired August 20, 2024 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[19:00:01]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: All right. Now, let's go over to MJ Lee, who has details on what the Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff will say this evening. 
 
MJ, tell us what you're learning. 
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Jake, this week is all about the American people getting to know better the vice president and the same goes for her family. We've just learned that her stepson Cole Emhoff is going to be on stage tonight talk about what the vice president often refers to as her blended family in a video message as well. 
 
Cole Emhoff will talk about the time when his parents Doug and Kerstin Emhoff split when he was in middle school, describing that as a difficult time. 
 
But then they'll say there was a blind date between Doug Emhoff and the vice president that changed their family's lives forever. People say in that video message, but in 2014, Harris became Momala. This is the nickname that the children used for the vice president will describe her as having taken over Sunday dinners and actually taught Doug Emhoff how to cook according to this video. 
 
Now, Doug Emhoff, as we know, is going to be speaking tonight as well, and he is going to make that connection saying that she has risen to the occasion for his family and that he believes that she can do the same at this moment for the country as well. 
 
And just one other note as we've talked about this idea of a blended families, sitting in the VIP box tonight will Kirsten Emhoff, Doug Emhoff's first wife. She, of course, has been publicly supportive of the Harris campaign as well, Jake.
 
TAPPER: All right. MJ Lee, thanks so much. Appreciate it. 
 
Let's talk about this with my panel. I should know when I covered and profiled then-Senator Kamala Harris when she was preparing for her presidential run, I was kind of surprised to hear how close she is with her husband's ex-wife. 
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. 
 
TAPPER: So I'm actually not surprised tonight to hear that she's her, but I was surprised to 2019.
 
BASH: Yeah.
 
TAPPER: But the big headliner this evening obviously, Barack and Michelle Obama, who are worshiped by the tens of thousands of people here tonight.
 
BASH: And this is you know, you obviously think about Obama and his vice president, President Biden, and the kind of speech you would have given if President Biden had stayed on the ticket but when it comes to Kamala Harris, the two of them have a relationship that goes back to almost the beginning of her political career, which wasn't that long ago, especially up against the Joe Biden resume, but they still met pretty early on in her career. 
 
She was very early supporter of his in 2008? So he's not only going to be speaking as Barack Obama and he's not only going to get the place, you know, fired up because they're excited to see him. He is were told very much want to talk about her, the woman she knows and why he believes she is right to take the job that he had.
 
TAPPER: And, Abby Phillip, we're also going to hear this evening from a number Republicans, not former Republican, but current Republicans who are breaking with their party to talk about why they are supporting Kamala Harris. That includes Trump's former communications director and press secretary, Stephanie Grisham, who was one of the most loyal of Trump aides. 
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: This is very reminiscent of what actually Hillary Clinton tried to do in the 2016 election, going up against Trump. This is a key part of the way that they reach these independent voters who are not excited about Trump. They don't want to have to vote for him again, they don't like him in a lot of ways. 
 
And they need a permission structure to move to the other side. And this is one of the key ways to do it as the thing is though between 2016 and today, the number of Republicans, especially the ones who used to work for Donald Trump, like Stephanie Grisham, it's overwhelming. There are perhaps more in -- 
 
TAPPER: OK, I'm sorry to interrupt. I'm sorry to interrupt. So this is Kyle Sweetser. He's a former two-time Trump voter. He's going to speak to the crowd.
 
KYLE SWEETSER, ALABAMA RESIDENT &amp; FORMER TRUMP VOTER: I voted for Trump not once, not twice, but three times. You see, I work in construction, I work with my hands.
 
He told us he looked out for blue-collar workers. So I made my first ever political donation to Trump and I donated to him many times throughout his presidency. But then I started to see Trump's tariff policy in action. Costs for construction workers like me, were starting to soar.
 
I realized Trump wasn't for me. He was for lining his own pockets. Now, I'm not left-wing, period, but I believe our leaders should bring out the best in us, not the worst.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
SWEETSER: That's why I'm voting for Kamala Harris. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
SWEETSER: She's tough. She's going to tackle inflation. Trump will make it worse. 
 <br>[19:05:01]
 
I'm voting for Kamala Harris because she'll make us proud to be American again. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Nobody has ever called me weird. I'm a lot of things, but weird I'm not.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAPPER: In any case, Abigail -- Abby -- Abby Phil -- Kyle Sweetser, former two-time Trump voter, just spoke right there talking about why he is not going to vote for Trump, in his third consecutive presidential election. This is a period in the convention right now where they are featuring -- the Democrats are featuring Republicans who are supporting Kamala Harris and are not supporting Donald Trump. 
 
We also expect to hear from Donald Trump's former White House press secretary and communications director, and also a former chief of staff for then First Lady Melania Trump, Stephanie Grisham. She will speak this evening. 
 
This convention is also going to feature of the lieutenant -- former lieutenant governor of Georgia, Geoff Duncan, a very conservative and proudly conservative Christian public official, who is also breaking from his party. 
 
This is a real theme that the Democrats are trying to hammer home in this convention. That Republicans should come on board with Kamala Harris as well.
 
So that is -- that is one of the things were hearing right now. And I believe now, we're going to hear from Stephanie Grisham. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Stephanie Grisham. (MUSIC)
 
STEPHANIE GRISHAM, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I wasn't just a Trump supporter. I was a true believer. 
 
I was one of his closest advisors. The Trump family became my family. I spent Easter, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's all at Mar-a- Lago. I saw him when the cameras were off.
 
Behind closed doors, Trump mocks his supporters. He calls them basement dwellers. 
 
On a hospital visit one time when people were dying in the ICU, he was mad that the cameras were not watching him. He has no empathy, no morals, and no fidelity to the truth.
 
He used to tell me, it doesn't matter what you say, Stephanie, say it enough, and people will believe you. But it does matter. What you says matter and what you don't say matters. 
 
On January 6, I asked Melania if we could at least tweet that while peaceful protests is the right of every American, there's no place for lawlessness or violence. She replied with one word "no". 
 
I became the first senior staffer to resign that day. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
GRISHAM: I couldn't be part of the insanity any longer.
 
When I was press secretary, I got skewered for never holding a White House briefing, it's because unlike my boss, I never wanted to stand at that podium and lie. 
 
Now, here I am behind a podium advocating for a Democrat.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
GRISHAM: And that's because I love my country more than my party. 
 
Kamala Harris tells the truth she respects the American people, and she has my vote. Thank you.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
TAPPER: Abby Philip, it is -- it is really remarkable when you think about the fact that not only are former Trump officials endorsing Kamala Harris, but there are so many notable Trump officials who weren't even present at the Republican convention, including his former vice president -- PHILLIP: Yeah.
 
TAPPER: -- who is not voting for Donald Trump. 
 
PHILLIP: I mean, there's a living former Republican president who probably wouldn't step foot in a Trump run. Republican national convention, which says an enormous amount about the state of the Republican Party under Trump. It's -- it's a party that has been split into and so many people like Stephanie Grisham and others, some of them broke with Trump during the Trump years. 
 
But so many of them like her, January 6, was a moment of intense clarity about Trump's character and about who he is as a person, and that is what yesterday and today. They are highlighting because as I said to our colleague Scott Jennings this morning, Republicans want to memory hole January 6, put it in the rearview mirror, but for all Americans, its still a thing that happened. And this is a reminder of that. 
 
TAPPER: Yeah, let's get to Kaitlan Collins right now who's on the floor of the convention. She's joined by Michigan's Democratic Governor Gretchen Whitmer. 
 
COLLINS: Yeah, Jake, and we are standing with the Michigan delegation here in the stands with this Governor Whitmer. 
 
Great to have you here. 
 
You know, last night was President Biden's night, arguably.
 <br>[19:10:02]
 
He was giving his speech touting his record. What do Americans need to hear about Vice President Harris from the speakers on that stage tonight? 
 
GOV. GRETCHEN WHITMER (D-MI): I think you know, we just heard from a Republican on the stage. We know that this is a place where we build a seat at the table for everyone. This platform, if it doesn't speak 100 percent, there's something in it for everyone in this country -- building a stronger future, economic opportunity, making sure that every person has a path to prosperity, and a safe school and personal freedoms. That's what's at stake in this election. 
 
And so you'll hear a lot about that tonight. And the next two nights, but it's been joyful and energetic and a lot of fun. 
 
COLLINS: Yeah, there's no denying everyone is in a good mood. You could feel it when you're on the floor, but your party does have a lot of work to do as you were just talking about before the election. It is not that far away from today. 
 
What does it look like post-convention? And your state of Michigan and Wisconsin, these other battlegrounds that Harris and Walz are going to need. WHITMER: Well, I've told everyone enjoy this and ride this energy through because on Friday, it's 75 days until the election. We've got a lot of work to do. We've got voter contact, we've got conversations that need to be had, shifts to sign up for, for getting people registered to vote are turning out the vote, et cetera. 
 
So there's a lot of work ahead. It is still going to be a close election, I believe. So, it is good to feel optimistic, but now we've got to be happy warriors and get to work.
 
COLLINS: Your home state governor, Gary Peters, said yesterday that he believes Vice President Harris does have differences from President Biden on policies, especially issues like Israel and Gaza, and that she needs to start showing those. 
 
Do you agree with that?
 
WHITMER: I think that Vice President Harris have shown that she can stand on her own two feet, and she is the type of leader that we need in Washington, D.C. He sees every person who cares about making sure that every one of us has a path. She grew up in the middle class, unlike the alternative, who's never put a real vision for the future of the country on the table. Kamala Harris was talking about creating economic opportunity for all of us. 
 
So I think this is a stark matchup as it is, and I encourage her to keep showing up as Kamala Harris.
 
COLLINS: And Governor Whitmer, I know you've got a ceremonial delegates to go. She'll be announcing that. 
 
Thank you very much, Governor Whitmer.
 
Jake, back to you. 
 
TAPPER: Here's another Michigander. It's Senator Gary Peters. 
 
Let's listen.
 
SEN. GARY PETERS (D-MI): In Michigan, we believe we have to build an economy that grows the middle class and we know that when unions succeed, all workers win.
 
I was raised in a union household. My father was a teacher, and my mother a nurses aide, and they gave me and my sisters what every parent wants to provide for their children an opportunity to pursue their dreams. 
 
I went to public school. I worked odd jobs, became an eagle scout. And Kamala Harris and Tim Walz grew up just like me. And I know -- I know they will fight for all of us. 
 
They will make it easier to raise our families and to retire with dignity just look at the record. As Vice President Kamala Harris helped pass legislation that finally, finally allowed Medicare to negotiate and lower the cost of prescription drugs. She brought manufacturing jobs back to the United States of America. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
PETERS: And as governor, Tim Walz signed the largest infrastructure investment in Minnesota history.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
PETERS: And on the other hand, we have Donald Trump and J.D. Vance. And let's be clear, if they win -- if they win, working people like my friends here from the Teamsters will pay the price. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
PETERS: Their Project 2025 agenda is the same old, same old, gut overtime pay, gut health care programs, and give billions in tax breaks to billionaires.
 
We -- we cannot let that happen. And we will not let that happen.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
PETERS: And now, I want to introduce some retired Teamsters, pension warriors, led by Ken Stribling, president of the National United Committee to Protect Pensions.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(CHANTING "USA")
 
KENNETH STRIBLING, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL UNITED COMMITTEE TO PROTECT PENSIONS: I am Kenneth Stribling, a proud retired teamster from Local 200 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
 
I hope you don't mind but I brought some friends. Pension warriors from the NUCPP. I found out and 2025 my pension -- my monthly pension benefit was going to be reduced in half. Not long after that, my wife, Beverly, was diagnosed with terminal cancer. I don't know how we were going to make it.
 
So I want to retirees meeting in the basement of a small church. At that moment, I knew we were not going to go down without a fight, Beverly made me promise never to quit and until we made this right. So we organize a nationwide grassroots movement. For six years, we fought hard and finally we had a breakthrough. After 50 days in office, the Biden-Harris administration passed the American Rescue Plan, including the Butch Lewis Act to save our pensions and secure retirement. 
 
They -- they got it done without one single Republican both in Congress. They saved over 1 million pensions including 33,000 from my state, Wisconsin, 52,000 from Pennsylvania, 61,000 from Michigan. 
 
As president, I know Kamala Harris will have our backs. She will fight for our retirement, Social Security, and Medicare. Beverly passed away in 2019, but I kept my promise, because a promise is a promise is a promise. 
 
Thank you.
 
TAPPER: Kenneth Stribling, president of the National United Committee to Protect Pensions, one of several union leaders who have spoken here at the Democratic National Committee's convention. 
 
Let's bring in John King right now to talk about the focus that we are right now, not just on the battleground, state of Michigan, but also on union voters -- John.
 
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPPONDENT: Well, Jake, look, let's start with Michigan. You see a blue there for Joe Biden, right? Easiest way to explain why has Michigan matter. 
 
That's 2016. That's Hillary Clinton. She lost Michigan. She lost the White House.
 
Also, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. Mr. Stribling, who just spoke there, is from Wisconsin, right? These three states right here, they voted together and every presidential election since 2000 for the blue wall states that are key to the Democratic foundation to win. 
 
So they are critical to Kamala Harris now as she tries to keep them in her column, one more quick point. You come back to 2020. So why does it matter in the 2020 race, Hillary -- in the 2016 race, Black turnout was down a bit in Detroit, that hurt Clinton.
 
But I'll tell you for Harris right now, Jake, the biggest problem maybe not African American turnout. She has energized that, there are a lot of young voters and Arab American voters in Michigan who are mad over the Israel-Hamas conflict. They were mad at President Biden. 
 
The question is, can Kamala Harris say, come support me even though you might have disagreements? Michigan, 15 electoral votes, part of the blue wall, absolutely essential.
 
TAPPER: All right, fascinating stuff.
 
Coming up, much more from the Democratic national convention here in Chicago. We're going to be joined by a Democrat who already fired up the convention hall with a primetime speech last night. That's Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock. 
 
Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [19:23:49]
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: Night two of the Democratic National Convention well underway here in Chicago. We're closing on marquee speeches from former President Barack Obama, former First Lady Michelle Obama, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff.
 
Let's go first to CNN's Jeff Zeleny with some new information on a former President Obama's speech tonight. 
 
Jeff, what are you learning?
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anderson, it's been 20 years since Barack Obama made his really debut in the Democratic Party at that Boston Democratic Convention back in 2004, when he said that we are not a collection of red states and blue states, we are the United States.
 
I am told by a longtime friend of the former president, he believes his speech here tonight is even more important. 
 
How important? This friend tells me that Barack Obama believes Donald Trump can win this election, but he believes Kamala Harris can also win it if Democrats do their part. 
 
So that is going to be the spine of the speech tonight. That former President Obama is going to be delivering here in this convention hall to a home ground crowd that is eager to hear from him. He is going to lay out what he believes is the Vice President Harris's path to victory but also what the burden here is on these voters. 
 
So, Anderson, so interesting, this 20-year history back then in Boston, a young Kamala Harris was in that convention hall as well watching a young Barack Obama. 
 <br>[19:25:06]
 
That's where their two-decade friendship and relationship began. 
 
COOPER: Yeah, there's certainly a lot of excitement in this arena tonight to hear from both of the Obamas. 
 
Jeff, thanks for murder much. Well check in with you shortly.
 
I'm here with the team.
 
David Axelrod, it's moving along much more on schedule tonight, which is certainly good news for the producers here, and I think for a lot of people in the hall. 
 
DAVID AXELROD, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENATOR: Yeah. Well, I think everybody was so concerned about the pace of last night's and I don't think they want to leave the Obamas waiting there until 11:30 at night. 
 
COOPER: There was a lot of behind the scenes concerned throughout the date today about what happened last night. 
 
AXELROD: Yeah. But I think adjustments were made and here yesterday, as we talked about, there was a lot of business that they needed to take care of, and there was a lot of challenge that was related to melding the Biden convention and the Harris convention, and this is -- this is a pure Harris programming here. 
 
And I think they're going to move this -- the folks on the teleprompters are going to be ruthless and they're going to move this thing along. But just on what Jeff was talking about, you know, what's striking to me is this political moment, and the ones that Barack Obama faced both in 20 -- 2004 and 2008 when he was the nominee, there was a hunger in this country for a better kind of politics and for turning the page and for bringing people together around common concerns that people are facing in their lives.
 
And in many ways, I think the speech he is going to make tonight reflects many of the same themes, and he sees Kamala Harris as someone representing the same kind of opportunity for the countries. So it will be fun to watch.
 
AUDIE CORNISH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Also, it's a torch passing opportunity that Barack Obama did not get in 2016 or 2020 because Hillary Clinton and Clintonomics, Joe Biden, these are all known quantities to the public. It was not a change election for either of them.
 
So, we've never really seen Barack Obama kind of stand up and say, these are the people. This is what's next, join in. And it will be interesting to see what he does with that opportunity Kennedy tonight. 
 
VAN JONES, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I mean, it's -- I remember 20 years ago, I was living in Oakland in a little condo. I had a little baby and a cat and I didn't have a TV. I listened on the radio. 
 
And this voice that sounded completely different than anything we'd ever heard before. Barack Obama talked -- recasting his own story as an American story. And it just opened up a sense for me personally that I had a place in the country, that I could be something, and everybody that day felt the same way. 
 
And Kamala Harris can do that times 100 because of who she is, because of what it means for a woman to do this. And I think its going to be exciting night.
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Everything -- well, first of all, Democrats are not embarrassed of Obama, so they're going to let him get on before midnight. So that's probably a good thing for the programming. 
 
COOPER: I got to jump in. Kaitlan Collins says, Senator Schumer with her, Kaitlan, let's check in. Scott, we'll come back in a moment. 
 
Kaitlan? COLLINS: Yeah. Hi, Anderson. I'm here on the floor standing right by the New York delegation, of course, that is where we find New York Senator Chuck Schumer.
 
Senator Schumer, what are you expecting to hear onstage tonight from President Obama, from the former first lady, talking about Vice President Harris.
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): What we're going to hear is the amazing contrast between the great stuff that a Harris-Walz administration would do for working families, and the contrast with Republicans and Trump. The contrast is glaring. The more Americans see the contrast, Kaitlan, the more we're going to win by. And I'll bet we're going to win by more than just a little.
 
COLLINS: And what does that look like though in terms of introducing Vice President Harris to maybe a lot of momentum and not inside this room, but who are at home watching and want to learn more about her.
 
SCHUMER: Well, the more they see her, the more they're going to like her. I saw what she did in the Senate. We serve together for four years. She cared about families. She could work with all kinds of people, and she was effective in getting things done. 
 
One of the things she pushed which we succeeded in was $35 insulin for senior citizens. Now, we're going to get it for everybody. 
 
COLLINS: What's your response when Trump takes credit of that? 
 
SCHUMER: Trump takes credit for so many things he doesn't do and gets the blame for a lot of things he does do. He's -- he's lost his bearings as we can see, day by day. 
 
COLLINS: Senator Chuck Schumer, I know you've got a lot to do on the convention floor. Thank you for taking the time to talk to us. 
 
SCHUMER: Thanks, Kaitlan. Great to see you.
 
COLLINS: Anderson, back to you.
 
COOPER: Kaitlan, thanks very much.
 
Scott, I interrupted you.
 
AXELROD: He takes a cheap shot and then he -- they switch away from -- 
 
COLLINS: No, I was complimenting your guy. They want to hear from Obama, he's one of the most gifted political communicators -- 
 
AXELROD: I misinterpreted.
 
COLLINS: And look, in everything that was described about him, new kind of politics, you know, excited for all these non policy reasons. He speaks to the vibes part of this election, and I think what Republicans are going to have to do to counter these vibes is to really, really get focused on the economics of this election. [19:30:06]
 
I mean, Bloomberg is reporting that the Feds is about to downwardly revised jobs by a million. Harris apparently has endorsed the capital gains increase to 25 percent tax on unrealized capital gains. I mean, bread lines and hoarding and black markets may be an optimistic future at this point, if she keeps going. I just -- I think -- 
 
AXELROD: You're picking up on the Trump vibe there. The world's going to hell. 
 
JENNINGS: I'm sorry. If you -- if the president of the United States institute those kind of tax increases, we're all going to be fighting each other for the last few crumbs out in the hallway. 
 
AXELROD: That is a Trump -- that is the Trump message.
 
JENNINGS: But it is -- it is lunacy to -- so my point is this, they're going to try to run on vibes. Trump's going to have to paint a policy picture and we'll see if he can do it. 
 
COOPER: All right. Sarah Sidner is standing by with Stephanie Grisham, who just spoke earlier -- Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: All right. We are here with Stephanie Grisham. You will remember, she is Donald Trump's former press secretary. She has now here speaking at the DNC because she has been very clear. She has completely changed her mind on who should be the president of the United States and who should not. 
 
I just want to ask you, what was his moment like when you decided, I cannot do this anymore, I cannot be part of this administration anymore, and you ended up here speaking at the DNC?
 
GRISHAM: I know, you know, I hit tried to resign actually, a few times prior to January 6, but Melania had talked me out. We were really, really close. January 6, of course, like I said in my speech was the day that I just couldn't be there anymore. I knew that he knew what he was doing. 
 
I was so disappointed that Melania wouldn't do at least something to try to quell the violence. And I haven't looked back since.
 
Now, yeah, to be here is not something I ever thought my career I would ever be. But I'm proud of it, I stand by it and it's been great. Everybody has been wonderful.
 
SIDNER: In a word, what was it like up there?
 
GRISHAM: Surreal. But I had to tell the truth. It was terrifying. I'm not going to lie. I'm waiting for all the backlash I'm going to get. You know how it goes. 
 
But I think it was really important and if I reached even a handful of independents, or a handful of Republicans, so it will just go behind that voting booth in the private and just add vote their conscience and vote not for party, then I will have done my job.
 
SIDNER: Stephanie Grisham, thank you so much for taking the time with us. I really appreciate you doing that.
 
She did mention to me, by the way that, you know, she is waiting for the response and the reaction and the attacks that always calm when she is front and center. Those attacks, she is worried about because sometimes they put her life in danger. She's worried about how Donald Trump is going and to respond to her speaking at the Democratic National Convention.
 
Back to you.
 
COOPER: Sara Sidner, our thanks very much.
 
Coming up, the roll call of states celebrating Kamala Harris, his Democratic Party's presidential nominee. We'll also be joined by North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper. 
 
Stay with us. Much more ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:37:00]
 
TAPPER: Welcome back to CNN's special live coverage of the Democratic National Convention. Night two is underway here in Chicago, and it's all building up to the main event this evening, a headliner speech by former President Barack Obama. 
 
Let's go to CNN's Kaitlan Collins, who's on the floor of the convention as she is joined by Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock of Georgia, who brought the roof down last night. 
 
COLLINS: Yes, he did. Jake, we were just talking about that speech. We're standing by the Minnesota delegation. Georgia is not too far though. They're in our line of sight. 
 
And, Senator, obviously, your state is going to be critical to success for any candidate in the election. What does Vice President Harris and Governor Walz need to do to win Georgia?
 
SEN. RAPHAEL WARNOCK (D-GA): Absolutely. There's no question that the road to the White House goes straight through Georgia. Georgia is a battleground state. I know it. I won twice in that state. Senator Ossoff won, and I really do believe that we can ensure that Georgian lands in the Harris-Walz column. 
 
It's going to be hard work. It's going to be a tight race. There's no question about it and by the way, the former president is helping us. I mean, he went to Georgia to his own rally and he spent much of his time insulting the sitting Republican governor. I hope they keep that going on the other side, focused on their problems. 
 
Meanwhile, we are going to be focused on the people. COLLINS: And I should note, it is very quiet here. It's not been this quiet the entire convention. That's because they are posing for a group shot. So, Senator Warnock and I will be standing next to each other in that group picture. 
 
But speaking of Georgia, the Georgia election board just changed rules. They've been doing a lot of that. They've got about 19 people and they're over used to certify elections in the past. Are you worried that's going to disenfranchise voters or cause chaos in your state as we're trying to figure out who did win in November?
 
WARNOCK: Listen, we are witnessing in real-time the machinations of those who believe much more empowered than they believe in democracy. And here's what we've got to do. 
 
We've got a win this election. We've got to maintain our majority in the Senate. We've got to flip the House, send Kamala Harris and Tim Walz to the White House. And when we do that, we've got to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. 
 
What the Supreme Court did in 2013 was a real knockout punch, certainly undermine much of the strength of the Voting Rights Act. The reason why you can see some of these games that get played is because they don't have to go through something called preclearance. 
 
So we've got to renew the Voting Rights Act and that's something I'll be very focused on.
 
COLLINS: All right. Senator Warnock, thank you for that. They're cheering because they just finished the picture. 
 
So, hopefully we don't get in trouble for moving during that. Thank you for your time. Have fun at the convention.
 
Jake, obviously, a state that is going to be quite critical for both the Senate and for the election come November.
 
TAPPER: Yeah. Kaitlan, your eyes were closed when they took that shot.
 
COLLINS: Well, do they -- I could ask him to do it again, Jake. I could go find them.
 
TAPPER: Yeah, it's too late. The senator looked fine, though. 
 
Let's get more reaction from another official from a battleground state, North Carolina's two-term Democratic Governor Roy Cooper, who joins us now.
 
Governor one of the things that the Harris campaign says as opposed to the Biden campaign, is that with her entry in the race and renewed excitement for her candidacy as opposed to President Biden's, there are -- there are new avenues, new roads, paths to the White House, including opening up Sun Belt states, Georgia, Nevada, North Carolina, Arizona, that really honestly were thought to have been closed. 
 <br>[19:40:23] Is that true? Is North Carolina in play?
 
GOV. ROY COOPER (D-NA): Absolutely, we're in play. I have that 2008 feeling and people in North Carolina know what that means, because we participated in the historic election of a Barack Obama that was the last time we voted for a Democratic presidential candidate. We had 12,000 volunteers the first couple of weeks after Kamala Harris was the Democratic nominee, 90 percent of them were first-time volunteers. 
 
So there is real excitement on the ground about this election. You're seeing it reflected in the poll numbers. Kamala Harris chose North Carolina to unveil her economic plan on last Friday, and she is going to be talking to working class North Carolinians, taking credit for amazing investments that the Biden-Harris administrations have made, but also understanding people's concerns with paying too much at the grocery store. And for childcare, and that she is ready to do something about it. 
 
And you're seeing a lot of excitement about that in North Carolina. We think we can do this.
 
BASH: You served as attorney general, state attorney general when Kamala Harris was attorney general in California. Also when Beau Biden was attorney general in Delaware. So, you go back several years, particularly with that Kamala Harris.
 
What do you want to convey about her that people might not know?
 
COOPER: Her tenacity and determination, it was reflected when we work together on the largest consumer financial settlement in the history of our country, as people were suffering from the great recession, and the foreclosure system was rigged, and people saw there America dream jammed by big banks. 
 
She took them on. She pushed this further than we thought we could go, but she also understood the details and what it took to get a deal. 
 
I think that she will be that kind of president. She will be the kind of president who understands what you have to do to get legislation through Congress. She participated in that with the Biden administration, which was amazing in what they were able what to do in getting bill after bill after bill, that meant something to American families. 
 
And then you add Tim Walz, who was a member of the House, who can bring that perspective actually getting the work done, I think people are looking for someone who can work in a bipartisan way. 
 
I know it's hard to talk about with how divided we are in a partisan way, but we're talking about the issues that matter to everyday people. They want to see us try to find a way forward. I think she can do that as president.
 
TAPPER: All right. Governor Roy Cooper of North Carolina, thank you so much for joining us.
 
BASH: Thank you.
 
TAPPER: We're closing on a start of the roll-call of state celebrating the nomination of Vice President Kamala Harris for president. Then, we're going to head into the night's top speakers, including senator and former presidential candidate, Bernie Sanders, of the great state of Vermont. Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff is going to share his account of what his wife is really like in their blended family. And the cappers of the night, speeches by former First Lady Michelle Obama and former President Barack Obama.
 
There's much more ahead after this quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:47:56]
 
COOPER: Welcome back to the Democratic National Convention, live in Chicago. 
 
Delegates are about to take part in colorful tradition with some new twist. We're standing by for the roll call of states begin just minutes from now, as -- this will be a ceremonial version of the vote to nominate the Harris-Walz ticket after an official roll call was conducted remotely earlier this month.
 
Kaitlan Collins is with the Delaware delegation right now. That's first up in the roll call -- Kaitlan.
 
COLLINS: Yeah, Anderson, Delaware is going to kick us off. It is ceremonial, but that doesn't mean there's any less pomp and circumstance to this roll call that is going to get kicked off here. 
 
I am standing in front of the Delaware delegation. As you can see, the elected officials of Delaware right behind me. Senator Chris Coons is actually going to be the ones starting all this is off.
 
Senator Coons, how are you going to kick things off for us tonight with this roll call? 
 
SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): I'm sorry? 
 
COLLINS: How are you going to get to kick things off for us tonight with this roll call?
 
COONS: On behalf of the great state of Delaware, home of our beloved. 46th President Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr. 
 
REP. LISA BLUNT ROCHESTER (D-DE): It's our honor to pledge all 34 delegates -- 
 
COONS: To the next president -- don't forget that part.
 
ROCHESTER: I don't want to give you the whole thing.
 
COLLINS: Yes, leave a little bit of a teaser. That was a good run through guys. Lisa Blunt Rochester, Chris Coons, thank you for that. And, Anderson, I should note, I'm standing in front of Delaware, that is where everything is going to get started in just a moment. But here to my left, that is the California delegation, obviously one of the biggest here. You can see a massive crowd on the convention floor. 
 
That is the state that will wrap us out with Governor Gavin Newsom wrapping that up with this roll call. 
 
So we're going to see a ton of elected officials here as we go through this. But it's all going to start right here in Delaware, Anderson.
 
COOPER: Yeah, just a few minutes now.
 
Over to Sara Sidner in the Minnesota delegation is also featured roll call or featured role, I should say, in the roll-call.
 
Sara, a lot of enthusiasm there I imagine.
 
SIDNER: We are standing here with a delegation. I just want to let you see who is standing right with us, who is going to be doing roll call. There are two people that referred to Tim Walz, not as governor, not as vice president but as coach. 
 <br>[19:50:01]
 
John Randle, you will recognize as hall-of-famer, defense end, he is here -- sitting here ready to do roll call. His buddy over there, both of them students.
 
Can you generally just tell me what it is like being here? Is this as good as winning, you know, as a Purple People Leader? 
 
JOHN RANDLE, HALL OF FAMER: It's just as good. I think it's -- you know, what? This is a different atmospheric of football. This is more of a history moment for Minnesota. So on behalf of Minnesota, I'm just honored to be here, represent.
 
SIDNER: Great answer, John, very diplomatic. Tell me a little bit about Tim Walz, what he means to the both of you, first to you, John. 
 
RANDLE: Well, for me, I think -- I've gotten to know some people in Minnesota. I've been there for 30 years. So, Tim is just more of a friend. And we kind of run in the same quarter with people, friends and stuff. I've asked, you know, the lieutenant governor of Minnesota very well, and so just being different people in Minnesota, doing charity work, we come across same people, friends, and stuff. And that's all I got acquainted with him. 
 
But I got to say, he's been so genuine and I'm just so proud and honored to know him.
 
SIDNER: That's a beautifully said. 
 
Hans, tell me about your experience with Tim Walz and what you want people to know. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So he's just a phenomenal person. You see what you -- what you see is what you get. He's been a mentor to me since I was younger, great teacher, a great leader. And it's just been surreal to see him. And I'm excited to be able to have what we saw for him, him as a teacher, be able to the whole world, be able to see him, on this -- on this stage. And I'm just super excited for them. 
 
SIDNER: Do you still think of him as coach? Is that what we're doing now? 
 
RANDLE: That's why I call him, the coach. 
 
SIDNER: That's what y'all call him. He's still Mr. Walz, but he's coach to you, and I hear you can take a hit, but I'm just saying.
 
All right. John Randle, thank you. Hans, appreciate it. Back to you, guys. 
 
COOPER: Sara, thanks very much.
 
Kamala Harris and Governor Walz, they are not actually here tonight. They are holding a rally.
 
AXELROD: Right. 
 
COOPER: David Axelrod, what is -- I mean, what is the idea behind that? They're -- 
 
AXELROD: Look, I think they wouldn't have been here last night, but for the fact that -- out of respect for President Biden, they felt they should be here, but generally, candidates take a tour into the convention city and arrive in the convention city on the eve of the or on the day of the actual vote, and then their speeches.
 
And so that -- you know, I think they made an accommodation. But my guess, is they'll beam her in perhaps after the -- I don't know this for a fact, but perhaps after the thing.
 
But this whole thing is obviously the actual vote happened two weeks ago. And, in fact, Anderson, Chicago was the last place where there actually was a meaningful roll call vote and that was in 1968. And it was so tumultuous that the system was changing. Now, the voters select these delegates. Everything is decided before the convention generally.
 
And so, this is for the benefit of television and a sense of unity in the party.
 
COOPER: Which tonight, we're going to be showing you live talk from their rally. The -- with Kamala Harris and Governor Walz.
 
Let's watch the roll call.
 
JASON RAE, DNC SECRETARY: Of the virtual roll call. This roll call will reflect those results. The chair of each delegation or their designee her report, its delegations, voting results for the presidential nomination. 
 
Pursuant to the rules, the roll call will follow the alphabetical order of the states with the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, the territories, and Democrats abroad treated as states for the purposes of the alphabetical roll call.
 
Delegates, are you ready?
 
(CHEERING)
 
RAE: Let me hear you.
 
DJ CASSIDY: Ladies and gentlemen, my name is DJ Cassidy, and I'd like to welcome you to the Democratic National Convention roll call. And we're going to pass the mic from state to state, so that all the voices are heard all around the nation.
 
Well, first, let me pass it back to Secretary Rae to get the celebration started.
 
(MUSIC)
 
RAE: Alabama, how do you cast your votes? 
 
Alabama passes.
 
Delaware, how do you cast your votes?
 
COONS: On behalf of the great state of Delaware, home of our beloved 46th president of the United States, Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. -- 
 <br>[19:55:06]
 
BLUNT ROCHESTER: It is our honor to unanimously cast our 34 votes for the next president of the United States, Vice President Kamala Harris!
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(MUSIC)
 
RAE: Thank you, Delaware.
 
Alabama, how do you cast your votes?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In a letter from the Birmingham jail, Dr. King wrote that progress is not inevitable. We have to fight for it. We have to win it. Kamala Harris will protect the legacy and the progress that we've made our forefathers and our foremothers and she will advance it. She will safeguard our freedom to vote by passing the John Robert Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. She will fight for freedom and opportunity, and build an economy that works for everyone.
 
So, from Huntsville to Mobile, from the Black Belt to the Wiregrass, with the historic civil rights cities of Birmingham, Montgomery and my hometown, from the people who brought us the Voting Rights Act and Civil Rights Act, the proud great state of Alabama proudly cast 56 votes for the first Black woman president of the United States of America, Kamala Harris, and the next vice president, Tim Walz.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(MUSIC)
 
RAE: Alaska, how do you pass your vote?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Alaska's motto is north to the future, and that's exactly where Kamala Harris and Tim Walz are going to take us, a future full for opportunity for everyone.
 
As a teacher, a union member and a proud Black woman, it is my honor to cast Alaska's 19 delegates for the next president of these United States, Kamala Harris!
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(MUSIC)
 
RADE: American Samoa, how do you cast your votes?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Here in American Samoa, faith, service and community are everything. That's why we cast ten votes for our next president, Kamala Harris.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(MUSIC)
 
DJ CASSIDY: And once again, my name is DJ Cassidy. And this is the DNC roll call. 
 
So let's pass the mic around the nation.
 
RAE: Arizona, how do you cast your votes?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Buenas tardes, from the Grand Canyon State of Arizona, the future of the Democratic Party, we've been bringing the heat since 2020, electing Democrats up and down the ballot. 
 
Our diverse coalition is proud to cast our 85 votes for Kamala Harris!
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(MUSIC) RAE: Arkansas, how do you have your votes?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: On behalf of the great state of Arkansas, home of American legends Johnny Cash, and Sister Rosetta Tharpe, home of the trailblazing civil rights leaders, Daisy Bates and the Little rock Nine, and all of birthplace of President William Jefferson Clinton, who inspired all of us in a place called hope.
 
Arkansas cast our votes for Vice President Kamala Harris and Governor Tim Walz.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(MUSIC)