Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Hurricane Francine to Make Landfall Along Gulf Coast; Presidential Candidates Kamala Harris and Donald Trump have First Debate; New Hampshire Republican Gov. Chris Sununu Says Harris Won Presidential Debate with Donald Trump; Presidential Candidates Visiting 9/11 Memorial; Nation Marks 23rd Anniversary of September 11 Terror Attacks; Trump Takes the Bait from Harris' Numerous Jabs During Debate. Aired: 8-8:30a ET

Aired September 11, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Allison, what are you seeing? 
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes, that's right. So the latest update just came in moments ago. Still 90 miles per hour sustained winds, forward movement, picking up a little bit of speed. The question is, how much more does it intensify before it finally makes landfall, likely very early this evening? The forecast from the official hurricane center is still saying it is likely going to make it to a low end category two hurricane right before it makes landfall. 
 
Now, one of the concerns is going to be heavy rain. We have already had over seven inches of rain in the last 48 hours in Brownsville, Texas. That's more than they would normally see in the month of September. We're starting to see more of those heavy bands begin to spread in across Louisiana. Heavy rain is forecast along the Gulf Coast, but also pretty far inland. You've got cities like Atlanta, Birmingham, even Memphis likely looking at four to six inches possibly out of this system over the next several days as it slowly makes its way inland. Storm surge is also going to be a big factor. The highest area is going to be right here just south of Morgan City, where five to ten feet of storm surge is expected. You're also looking that potential for tornadoes, damaging winds, and even some water spouts for Louisiana and portions of western Florida. 
 
BERMAN:  All right, heed those warnings along the Gulf Coast. Allison Chinchar, thank you so much. 
 
A brand-new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts now.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  It was at this hour 23 years ago when the September 11th attacks began shaking the nation to its core. Ahead we will have live coverage. Our Kate Bolduan is there as the candidates for president are also showing up. 
 
Also this morning, the first face-off between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump has Democrats celebrating. Harris threw him off his game and Trump repeatedly took the bait. Will we see round two between these two candidates? 
 
Plus, Harris secures a huge endorsement from a very famous, as she calls herself, childless cat lady. 
 
Those stories and more coming up. I'm Sara Sidner with -- 
 
(MUSIC)
 
SIDNER:  All right, I'm Sara Sidner with John Berman, and apparently Taylor Swift as well as Kate Bolduan. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. 
 
This morning, there are three post-debate takeaways. Kamala Harris has Taylor Swift's vote, Kamala Harris wants a second debate, and despite Donald Trump saying it was his best debate ever, a lot more people are saying things like the Rupert Murdoch owned "Wall Street Journal" editorial board which said Ms. Harris won the debate because she came in with a strategy to taunt and goad Mr. Trump into diving down rabbit holes of personal grievance and vanity that left her policies and history largely untouched. He always takes the bait, and Ms. Harris set the trap." 
 
CNN's Jeff Zeleny has a recap of last night's debate.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, (D) VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  You are not running against Joe Biden. You're running against me. 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Vice President Kamala Harris made that point again and again Tuesday night as she met former President Donald Trump for the first time in a red-hot Philadelphia debate, with the dueling rivals trying to break the deadlock in the final two months of the race for the White House. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  She is Biden, the worst inflation we have ever had, a horrible economy because inflation has made it so bad that she can't get away with that. 
 
HARRIS:  Clearly, I am not Joe Biden, and I am certainly not Donald Trump. And what I do offer is a new generation of leadership for our country. 
 
ZELENY:  Harris baiting Trump on the size of his rallies. 
 
HARRIS:  People start leaving his rallies early out of exhaustion and boredom. 
 
ZELENY:  His criminal cases. 
 
HARRIS:  I think this is so rich coming from someone who has been prosecuted for national security crimes, economic crimes, election interference, has been found liable for sexual assault. 
 
ZELENY:  And relationships with foreign allies. 
 
HARRIS:  World leaders are laughing at Donald Trump. ZELENY:  Trump took that bait, rattled by Harris as he made one
 
 unproven claim after the other. 
 
TRUMP:  People don't go to her rallies. There's no reason to go. And the people that do go, she is busing them in and paying them to be there. 
 
In Springfield, they are eating the dogs, the people that came in, they are eating the cats, they're eating, they're eating the pets of the people that live there. 
 
ZELENY:  The former president criticizing Harrisons attempts to run as a change agent while being part of President Biden's administration, especially on the economy.
 
TRUMP:  She is going to do all of these wonderful things. Why hasn't she done it? I have never seen a worse period of time. People can't go out and buy cereal or bacon or eggs or anything else. 
 
HARRIS:  What we have done is cleanup Donald Trump's mess. 
 
ZELENY:  And the border.
 <br>[08:05:01]
 
TRUMP:  I ask, what about the people pouring into our country and killing people that she allowed to pour in? She was the border czar, remember that. 
 
ZELENY:  Harris hitting her stride on her signature issue, reproductive rights. 
 
HARRIS:  The government and Donald Trump certainly should not be telling a woman what to do with her body. 
 
TRUMP:  They have abortion in the ninth went. 
 
HARRIS:  That is not happening, and it's insulting to the women of America. 
 
ZELENY:  Harris also addressing the war in Gaza, walking a thin line of support for allies and trying to not fracture a fragile Democratic coalition. 
 
HARRIS:  Israel has a right to defend itself. We would. And how it does so, matters, because it is also true far too many innocent Palestinians have been killed, children, mothers. What we know is that this war must end. 
 
ZELENY:  And then the war over rhetoric. 
 
TRUMP:  Whatever she wants to be is OK with me. 
 
HARRIS:  I think it is a tragedy we have someone who wants to be president who has consistently over the course of his career attempted to use race to divide the American people. I think the American people want better than that, want better than this. 
 
ZELENY:  Trump still falsely claiming he won the 2020 election. 
 
TRUMP:  There's so much proof. All you have to do is look at it. 
 
ZELENY:  And refusing to answer this about January 6th. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Is there anything you regret about what you did on that day? 
 
TRUMP:  I had nothing to do with that other than they asked me to make his speech. 
 
ZELENY:  Harris made a direct appeal to Republicans or independence who believe Trump has gone too far. 
 
HARRIS:  We are not going back. It is time to turn the page. And if that was a bridge too far for you, well, there is a place in our campaign for you. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
ZELENY (on camera):  So going into the debate, one of the biggest objectives for Donald Trump was too slow Kamala Harris's rise throughout the summer, throughout the Democratic convention. That clearly did not happen. Republicans after the debate that I spoke to were clearly disappointed at missed opportunities and the fact that Donald Trump was supposed to be the experienced debater on stage, that he took one piece of bait after another. 
 
The bigger question, how does this land with voters? It takes a few days oftentimes for this to settle in, but I talked to North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper afterward. Of course, North Carolina is a key swing state that Harris is trying to win. He said on abortion and healthcare, this will move the needle in his estate. Sara, we shall see if that is amplified in other states or if it comes to pass, but one indication of confidence, moments after the debate, the Harris campaign said we want to do another one in October. As of right now, Donald Trump has not agreed to do so. Sara?
 
SIDNER:  Jeff Zeleny, you put it all out there for those who do not see the debate last night, they saw in your piece. I appreciate it. John?
 
BERMAN:  With us now is the governor of New Hampshire, Republican Chris Sununu. Governor, first of all, let me just say, I know you lost your mother a few days ago, kind of a towering figure in New Hampshire politics. I just want to let you know that we are thinking about you and your big family. 
 
GOV. CHRIS SUNUNU (R-NH):  Thank you. 
 
BERMAN:  Who won the debate last night? 
 
SUNUNU:  Kamala Harris definitely won the debate. There is no question about that. So the question is, what does that mean, right? And it's not just what does it mean to everyone. What does it mean to that 10 percent of swing voters? I think if you poll those swing voters, they want results. They're results driven. It's the cost of living, it's the border, it's public safety, those kinds of issues, who is going to be the change agent to make that better in their lives.
 
I think there were two misses on both sides that neither of them really connected empathetically. Kamala definitely had a great strategy of, well, I don't want to get tied into reliving the last three years. She kind of talked, had confidence in her answers, and then she took the last 30 seconds of almost every question and hit him with a personal attack, knowing that that would get under his skin. It was a very effective measure and I give her a lot of credit on that. It kept him on the defensive, to be sure, and it's ultimately definitely stylistically why she ultimately won the debate. 
 
But for those 10 percent of swing voters, I think one or two percent, I think you will see the needle move a bit one or two percent, but the majority of those swing voters are still results driven. They still didn't hear, well, how are you going to lower my prices? How are you going to make sure I can pay my rent? And I think let's not forget, we still have almost 60 days to go. The rent is going to come due, the electricity bills are going to come in, those credit card bills are going to keep coming in. That is one of the best messaging tools that the Trump campaign actually has to, hey, things are not as good as they were four years ago. If you notice, that was a number one question when they said are things better than they are four years ago? She immediately avoided the question. That's the number one issue.
 
But Trump missed his marks. He did. He should've talked about prices controls. He should have talked about the cost of living. I think he went like an hour without even talking about inflation. And those are real issues for people. 
 
BERMAN:  How prepared did he seem to you? 
 
SUNUNU:  I think he had been told 100,000 times just look at the camera and don't hit her with personal attacks, don't engage her personally. 
 <br>[08:10:01]
 
And I think he was trying to be very disciplined, and he was for a while. He was very disciplined on that. But she knew that, and she took advantage. And that is why she kept turning to him. She kept jabbing at him, knowing that he was told do your best to stay in your lane and keep composed. I think he actually had a decent amount of composure considering what we have seen in the past. But the dog line and the cats line, those moments are not going to be forgotten. They're just going to make social media memes. That doesn't help him at all. 
 
BERMAN:  One question is, if he can be rattled by Kamala Harris talking about crowd size, what does that say about what foreign leaders can do, adversaries can do to him? SUNUNU:  I will say this, I do think on the issues of foreign policy,
 
 that is a strength that he has that he has not exploited in this campaign. There is chaos in Ukraine, chaos in Israel. There's a lot of pressure going on in Taiwan, let's not forget about that. Let's not forget about Afghanistan. He clearly, there was more world peace under his -- 
 
BERMAN:  He wouldn't say he wanted Ukraine to win. 
 
SUNUNU:  Understood, but there was clearly more peace when he was there. And just showing that contrast is what he has to do more of, right. So it's not about, well, if she can rattle you, world leaders can -- he has already been president. He didn't get rattled on the international stage as president. So that's a hard argument to make. So I think he actually has to keep going back to the international issues where his administration -- 
 
BERMAN:  You were a big supporter of Nikki Haley in the primary, no bigger supporter of Nikki Haley. 
 
SUNUNU:  Can you imagine what Nikki would've done in that debate last night? It would've been great, right?
 
BERMAN:  Well, talk about that.
 
SUNUNU:  Yes, it would have been lights out. I think this campaign --  
 
BERMAN:  I'm talking about Donald Trump. She never had a chance to debate against Donald Trump. Did it make you think about how she would've performed against Donald Trump? 
 
SUNUNU:  Yes, yes. But primaries are different, too. So understand that primaries are very different. They are kind of breaking apart that spectrum within your own party. They can be pretty vicious even within your own party. Obviously, we are all going to galvanize around the candidate at the end of the day, as most folks do in a primary. But no, I was thinking more about if Nikki was on that stage, that would have been a much harder task for Kamala to come after her knowing that Nikki just wasn't going to take it. 
 
BERMAN:  But you do think that had Nikki Haley had the opportunity to debate Donald Trump in the primary, you would've been something like that last night?
 
SUNUNU:  Yes, I do. I think it would've been very similar. I think it would have been impactful because it has a different impact within the demographics of the Republican primary voter. She came close, very close in New Hampshire, as you know. Maybe it would've been a difference maker, maybe not. But it's not about the overall, it is always about the swing voters. I know a lot of folks are talking about reproductive rights today and all that. Those voters are already decided, guys. The pro-lifers are here, reproductive rights are there. So those issues last night aren't swinging any of those swing voters. It is really about the economy and public safety and those that can make the gut connection with those voters. BERMAN:  Governor Chris Sununu, appreciate seeing you here. I was
 
 going to bring some lobster rolls since you have a tendency to save people who are maybe choking on them.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SUNUNU:  We can handle that. We can handle any --  
 
BERMAN:  Thank you, I appreciate it. Thank you very much. Sara? 
 
SIDNER:  All right, Taylor Swift says she has made her choice. She is backing Kamala Harris. But how much sway could Swift have over the swing voters that you just heard the governor talking about there? 
 
In just minutes we will get the last report tracking inflation numbers, how that might impact the election, and, of course, your personal economy. Now to Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  And we are live at the 9/11 Memorial Plaza where families are beginning to gather. Soon they will begin reading the names of their loved ones. Those lives lost, they will honor them, we will all honor them with those live moments today. 
 
Also arriving and attending here in lower Manhattan, the presidential candidates. A short time ago we saw Donald Trump and J.D. Vance arriving. You see him standing next to former mayor of New York City Mike Bloomberg. You see the Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas standing in the distance. They will be here, they are here, and Joe Biden, President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, they will also be attending the ceremonies today. Much more on this coming up.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:18:36]  
 
BOLDUAN: We are here live at 9/11 Memorial Plaza in Lower Manhattan where the commemoration ceremony to observe the 23rd Anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks is going to be getting underway this hour.  
 
Families are arriving to once again read the names of their loved ones, lives lost. This 9/11 also lands smack dab in the middle of the presidential election.  
 
Today is not only huge for that reason, but it comes after the hugely consequential presidential debate between the two people vying to be the next leader, vying to be the next commander-in-chief.  
 
Just hours ago, they were on the debate stage together and today, Kamala Harris and Donald Trump will be here in Lower Manhattan to attend this 9/11 ceremonies.  
 
We saw Donald Trump and JD Vance arrive a short time ago. Brynn Gingras is here with me, as we are going to be following these live moments throughout the morning together.  
 
Not clear though if these rivals, if these candidates will crossing paths when they are here to honor the fallen.  
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it is very possible, they will be sitting separately from each other, may not have to have any interaction whatsoever. Quite a pivot though, as you just mentioned from that debate last night to today, just a heavy moment of this day with so many families surrounding these candidates.  
 
And not just, you know, these candidates who are running for president but also these people who or maybe politicians when these terror attacks happened are going to be here as well. We have seen a lot of dignitaries from the New York area arriving at this point.  
 
But like, yes, again, it's going to be a pretty immense moment just to see these four people up there as we all watch this commemoration ceremony.  
 <br>[08:20:09]  
 
BOLDUAN: And everything we know in terms of, we can probably put up the map to show everyone we know that President Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, they will be making their way here as well.  
 
They are going to be stopping by all three of the ceremonies. They are going to be here, they're going to be stopping at the Pentagon, they'll also be going to  Shanksville. And we know that former President Donald Trump will be also going from here to Shanksville as well.  
 
So, this will be a day of these candidates crossing paths.  
 
GINGRAS: Crossing paths, making sure that they put forward to the country that they are also remembering what this day is and what it means to them and certainly trying to speak to what this day means to everybody.  
 
Where we were on 9/11 and also, where we are headed in this country, you know, and it's very important to remember that once the ceremony begins, it is about the families.  
 
They are the ones that are going to be reading the names and that's on purpose from this Museum and Memorial. They do not want these dignitaries to have any touch of the microphone because it is about those families and remembering the lives lost.  
 
But it is also interesting sometimes, you will hear some of those family members talk about political moments. They will say let's reunite, let's not have divisiveness. They will make a political statement and it is interesting to see that, but it's possible today especially after that debate.  
 
BOLDUAN: We will be getting underway very soon, 8:46, that is the first moment of silence, that is the moment when the first plane struck the North Tower, 8:46, that moment of silence we will be experiencing together. The candidates will be here in the ceremony about to get underway -- John, Sara.  BERMAN: All right, the big debate overnight, Kate. This was the first
 
 time Harris and Trump ever met face-to-face. That moment right there, the only time they have ever shaken hands.  
 
Now, the question, will they ever meet again?  
 
We are standing by for a brand new report on inflation that comes in just minutes. What it will mean for your wallet, your bank account, and election.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:26:15]  
 
BERMAN: All right, I thought we were playing some sound bouncing back off this debate. But there was a big debate last night. You're going to have to take my word for it.  
 
What does it all mean going forward?  
 
SIDNER: Joining us now to discuss is CNN senior political commentator Scott Jennings and executive committee chair for the New York State Democratic Committee, Christine Quinn. Thank you both for being here.  
 
I want to start with one of the very first, or it wasn't the first thing, where Kamala Harris was asked about her flip-flops, right, and both candidates to be fair have done some flip-flopping in their political lives.  
 
She was asked about several things. I'll start with you, Scott. Did she answer the question well and, why didn't Donald Trump try to capitalize on it?  
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, your second question gives away the answer to the first. Of course, she did not answer them well. There is no good answer.  
 
Every single thing she ran in 2019, she now claims to be against and it is her right to change all of her positions, but that doesn't mean you have to be convinced by it.  
 
And I do agree, Trump failed to go back to the well on that or go back to the well on the central issue that he has got to run on which is if you do not like what you are getting out of the current administration you cannot leave the same people in charge.  
 
He did it in his closing statement but that took a long time to get there.  
 
So, no I wasn't convinced by it but -- and even though I thought Trump won the first 15 minutes and it was largely about the economy, the rest of the debate she was evasive, but she did control the flow.  
 
BERMAN: A little bit of a different experience than the debate in June.  
 
CHRISTINE QUINN, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CHAIR, NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE: Thank God.  
 
SIDNER: Wow. She just brought it.  
 
BERMAN: What do you think matters most from what happened last night?  
 
QUINN: I think what matters most is that it is really positive jump right out of the debate into the longer homestretch of winning the election. And if you see the correspondence that has come out of the campaign, the heading on most of them is, debates do not win elections.  
 
BERMAN: Literally, that is the subject line on the e-mail blast that went out overnight.  
 
QUINN: Right, and I think that is smart because obviously she won the debate. There's no question, even Trump consultants are saying that.  
 
But if you kind of rest on those laurels, you open up your flank for attacks and you lose your energy.  
 
So, we have a good bounce, a good bump like we did out of the convention. We're keeping it going, but have got to really get down to the swing states, the critical electoral college states, and win on the ground.  
 
SIDNER: I am curious about -- were you surprised when Donald Trump said that he did not have a plan on healthcare? He literally said he was going to keep Obamacare.  
 
It sort of took me aback because you almost never hear a candidate saying they don't have a plan, even if they do not have a plan, admitting that they don't have a plan.  
 
JENNINGS: Not really.  
 
SIDNER: Really?  
 
JENNINGS: I mean, did I expect him to show up and give you some chapter and verse presentation about a specific plan, how to rewrite one-sixth of the American economy? No.  
 
And Harris of course, says she has plans for everything and what Trump failed to do was point out that she has plans for nothing other than saying that she has a plan.  
 
I actually thought, and most Republicans think today that the debate was set up by the moderators to be a lot more of a trial of Trump than a debate between two candidates. They showed it on that issue, but that's no excuse, you can't complain about the refs when you are not making your own jump shots.  
 
But I thought on that topic, they really drilled down on Trump, but they did not drill down Harris as much when she was evasive about failing to give specifics on her issues.  
 
QUINN: Yet, they are talking about the refs, right, even though they did not make their own jump shots. It is so classically Trump. I won that last election even though he lost that election.  
 
I really won this debate if it wasn't for these mean, nasty moderators who, I thought did a good job of moderating but were very low key as moderators go.  
 
So, it is just classic Trump. The dog ate my homework over and over again.  
 <br>[08:30:07]