Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Biden Gears Up to Pass the Torch to Kamala Harris at DNC; Trump Fires at Kamala Harris; Protesters Swamp the Streets of Chicago As Democratic National Convention is Few Hours Away from Kicking Off. Aired 5-5:30a ET

Aired August 19, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:00] 
 
KASIE HUNT, ANCHOR, CNN THIS MORNING:  It's Monday, August 19th right now on CNN THIS MORNING. President Biden passing the torch tonight at the Democratic National Convention. Plus -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  I'm a better- looking person than Kamala. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  Donald Trump ignoring pleas from his own party to stop the personal attacks and start to focus on policy. And this -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CROWD CHANTING) 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  A sign of things to come. Pro-Palestinian protesters jamming the loop in Chicago on the eve of the DNC. It is 4:00 a.m. here in Chicago, 5:00 a.m. out on the east coast. A live look at the United Center right here in Chicago, which is of course, the home to the Democratic National Convention throughout the week.   
 
We are here, good morning everyone, I'm Kasie Hunt, it's wonderful to have you with us, we are just hours away from the start of the Democratic National Convention, and man, does it look radically different from what was planned, even just a month ago? Remember, of course, it was supposed to be President Biden at the top of the ticket ready to accept the nomination for a second term on the convention's closing night. 
 
That would be Thursday. Instead, he will be here tonight, opening night as speaker on behalf of his Vice President. The dramatic turnaround at the top of the ticket, we are seeing that shake up new polling. Kamala Harris taking the lead in an "ABC News"-"Washington Post"-IPSOS poll, now up 4 points nationally in the head-to-head matchup with Donald Trump. During a stop in Pennsylvania, Harris had this to say in response to the polls. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Polls show that you're 3 points up nationally. What's your response to this? You still consider yourself the underdog here? 
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I very much consider as the underdog. We have a lot of work to do to earn the vote of the American people. That's why we're on this bus tour today. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  Donald Trump also on the campaign trail in Pennsylvania this weekend, you sensing a trend there? He was trying to tear down his new rival ahead of her big moment here at the convention. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  That is the laugh of a crazy person. That is the laugh of a crazy -- it's a laugh of a lunatic. So, they deposed a president -- it was a coup of a president. This was a coup.  
 
I am a better-looking person than Kamala.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  Joining us now to talk about all of this, Sabrina Rodriguez, "National Political" reporter at the "Washington Post", Margaret Talev is senior contributor at "Axios", Meghan Hays; former messaging -- Message Planning Director in the Biden White House, welcome to all of you, thank you for being here. 
 
We should also say, Meghan, you have been working on this Democratic National Convention as well. So, why don't I start with you. I mean, set the stage for us tonight. We have talked a lot about unity, I will also say, it does seem like there are, you know, it's a difficult thing for the current sitting President to do this. 
 
Difficult also for his wife, Jill Biden, who we expect to hear from tonight as well. How do you expect the night to play out?  
 
MEGHAN HAYS, CONSULTANT, DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION:  Look, I think that everyone has worked incredibly hard to pull this together and make some changes in the last month as the top of the ticket changes, as you mentioned. But I think that, you know, people are really excited to hear from President Biden. 
 
I think it's a really great moment for him to pass the torch. I think Dr. Biden will also give unit remarks, you know, clarifying that they're unified and they're behind the Vice President and Governor Walz. But I think people are just excited to be here. I think we didn't get a convention in 2020, so I think people are just excited to gather and to be here. I mean, everything will be really exciting, the energy this week in
 
 Chicago has been really exciting, and people are just really pumped to be here and to hear from the President and then to move on to, you know, the Vice President and the governor, accepting their nomination. 
 
HUNT:  Yes, Margaret Talev, I mean, it does feel like a little literal party when you run into Democrats on the streets. I've heard they partied all night. I think a lot of them are probably still going to bed -- 
 
MARGARET TALEV, SENIOR CONTRIBUTOR, AXIOS:  Right -- 
 
HUNT:  As we were heading here. But you know, it was interesting to listen to Harris there on the bus tour because there does seem to be a sense that she's not pushing back against that necessarily, she's totally embracing it. 
 <br>[05:05:00] 
 
But there is also something to be said for the message like, hey, we might be excited, but if we don't work at this, it's not going to come out the way we want it to.   
 
TALEV:  We've been looking at all these polls in recent days, and well, "Axios", we have some forthcoming polling as well, more on that tomorrow. But they all show -- what they show is, I don't think it's her overtaking Donald Trump. I think they show her catching up to Donald Trump and this becoming a tight contest. 
 
And now, up in the air again, and it is a reset for her. But that reset, there's subtlety inside that reset, which is that it's now both an opportunity, but also like a demand that she has to define herself to a lot of voters who, even though she has been the Vice President, do not necessarily feel that they know -- she gets a grace period on a lot of Biden's policies that   are unpopular. She gets a reset opportunity, but now she has to fill that space.  
 
HUNT:  Yes, well, and Sabrina, to that point, I mean, if she's had, you know, a tough moment since this has all unfolded for her, and to be clear, she's been riding high. She did come in for some criticism for the economic speech he gave on Friday for the policy she rolled out there. 
 
It led to this post online from Trump, which showed a mock-up, again, this is an A.I.-generated image which is noted on our graphic. But it's a mock-up of this event here, calling her comrade Kamala Harris, as you can see. This is of course, a reference to her plan related to prohibiting the price-gouging from grocery stores, which they have likened to the Soviet Union. And then this was Trump in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania over the weekend, saying repeatedly that she is a communist. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TRUMP:  We are going to defeat a communist known as Kamala Harris. Kamala went full communist -- you heard that. She went full communist. She wants to destroy our country. Her father, a Marxist. He was a Marxist. It's what her father taught her from a young girl growing up. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  So, Sabrina, this is both a personal and a policy-based attack, I suppose, from Donald Trump. He's not solely staying on this message, but that is something that they -- you know, that he is leveling at her at this point, effective? Not. 
 
SABRINA RODRIGUEZ, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, THE WASHINGTON POST: I mean, this is where her having an effective communication strategy is going to come in. This is where she has to be on the road, really touting what that economic message is, and what those policies that she's supporting is. 
 
There's no question that Trump is going to be on the road, and he's going to be calling her comrade Kamala Harris, and he is going to attack her as a communist. I mean, it is the -- especially the socialists and communists attacks against Democrats are not anything new.  
 
So, of course, it is not surprising to see them look at her economic plan and say, OK, let's pick apart pieces that we can come out and Trump can kind of use to slam her. But she does need to define herself. There's still no question that many people, even if her being the Vice President don't really know her, want to see how she differentiates herself from Joe Biden. 
 
And this is an opportunity for her to go on the campaign trail, unexplained, you know, for all the talk of inflation, for all the talk of the economy, and what the future of it looks like, her explain, this is why I want to do this, and this is why it would be good for Americans.  
 
TALEV:  Just to be clear for anyone who is just waking up, like Kamala Harris is not a communist, I think -- 
 
RODRIGUEZ:  Yes, that's it -- 
 
TALEV:  Yes, just some levels that are here, let's start from there. 
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
HUNT:  Fair enough, yes. So, Meghan, one of the things where Trump does lead Harris still is this idea of who is a strong leader. And we know, of course, that Hillary Clinton was the first person to -- first woman to take this nomination. So, Democrats have been very careful to say Harris is following in those footsteps. 
 
But strength is something that has come up when women have run for president. And of course, this strongman persona is something Trump leans into. I thought this was interesting. Harris was asked, well, she talked about the idea of what it means to be a strong leader when she was on this bus tour over the weekend. I want to watch that and we'll talk about it briefly.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HARRIS:  Frankly, over the last several years, there's been this kind
 
 of perversion that has taken place. Which is to suggest that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat down. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That's right -- 
 
HARRIS:  When what we know is the real and true measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you lift up. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes. 
 
(APPLAUSE) 
 
(CHEERS) 
 
HARRIS:  Anybody who is about beating down other people is a coward! 
 
(CHEERS) 
 
(APPLAUSE) 
 
HARRIS:  This is what strength looks like. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  Your evaluation of if that's going to help convince voters that she will be a strong leader.  
 
HAYS:  Yes, I think that people are looking for a contrast, right? And that she's showing that she is a more positive leader, she is a more, you know, forthrightly or she's not going to criticize and make unnecessary remark saying that she is a better-looking human than Donald Trump. That just seems to be like a really weird thing that he's been doing lately.  
 <br>[05:10:00] 
 
HUNT:  Hey, where's that word "weird"? I feel like I've heard that word somewhere. 
 
HAYS:  Sorry, it's been overused. 
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
HAYS:  But I just think that, you know, people are -- people are going to vote a lot on feelings here, and people want hope and want to look to the future. They don't want this negative person in their ear all the time, regardless of what attacks he's making. So, people are going to look at that and look at leadership there. 
 
But also when you're the vice president, you are not the main leader. The President is. And so, she needs to go out there and show how she will be an effective leader as the President. And I think the sense of promise and being on the road, showing people, will be really impactful to people -- to voters. 
 
HUNT:  All right, standby for me guys, because coming up here on CNN THIS MORNING, protests already underway in Chicago. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How the government is sponsoring genocide!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  How the city is preparing to keep everyone safe when Democrats kick off this convention tonight. Plus, Donald Trump   plotting to counter program to try to steal some of the spotlight from Democrats this week. We'll dig into that. And the two key messages that President Biden plans to deliver tonight on this opening night of the convention. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Nothing can come in the way of saving our democracy. That includes personal ambition. So, I've decided, the best way forward is to pass the torch to a new generation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[05:15:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm not at all offended that none of you have any idea who I am.   
 
BIDEN:  It's time elect John Kerry. 
 
I accept your nomination to run and serve with Barack Obama. With a great honor and pleasure, I accept.
 
We own the finish line! 
 
I accept this nomination for President -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  Joe Biden will be attending his 13th Democratic National Convention tonight. He was just starting out as a Delaware City Councilman at his first DNC in 1972. And when the President speaks in Chicago this evening, this will be the final stage for his political life. He is passing the torch to a new standard bearer for his Democratic Party.
 
We do expect him to make a forceful case for electing Kamala Harris while casting Donald Trump as a threat to democracy.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How are you feeling about your speech tomorrow?  (END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  Biden has been making last-minute revisions to his speech with senior aides at Camp David ahead of his historic appearance tonight. Panel is back. We're joined by Shermichael Singleton; Republican strategist and CNN political commentator, who is having a great time at the Democratic Convention --
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  You know what? I've got to -- 
 
HUNT:  My understanding --   
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
SINGLETON:  Hays, happy to -- 
 
HUNT:  We would have been happy to have you at the A block -- 
 
SINGLETON:  My Democratic friend -- my Democratic friends know how to have fun. I would give you guys that, Meghan. 
 
HAYS:  Thank you, also well, thank you. 
 
HUNT:  We're honored that you -- you know, had a little sleep, made it here, but Meghan, I do want to give this to you because you're the person sitting here who has worked for this man for Joe Biden. This was clearly a very difficult decision for him to make. 
 
He clearly is also still upset about how he was treated in some ways. But he has been very magnanimous toward Harris, who I also know has been very careful in how she has conducted what are going to see play out on this stage, which is her own kind of ascension here to the forefront of all of this. How is the President feeling? How are the people around the President feeling as this is set to unfold tonight?
 
HAYS:  I think there are two things here, right? I think she -- I think the President is probably pretty upset about how things  went down. But I also think that he is doing what's best for this country and he knew that and he made that decision. And I think it was right for him to fully endorse the Vice President here because it gives -- unify the Democrats, and it gives us an opportunity to move forward quickly, which we needed to do. 
 
But I think, you know, I think the that President understand what's at stake here, and I think that he knows that what needs to happen for our country and what's best for it, and he really does believe Donald Trump is a threat to democracy. So, where he's probably upset that he's not running for re-election, he's still the President of the United States. 
 
He still has six more months, he's done incredible things, he's had incredible legacy for his entire political career. He also did more in the first three-and-a-half years than most Presidents have ever done in their eight years when they have two terms. So, I think he's incredibly proud of that, but I do think it's a hard moment for him, but I think that he will honor it with grace and dignity, just like he does every other step in his political life. 
 
HUNT:  Margaret, what are you expecting from Jill Biden tonight on stage? 
 
TALEV:  I think that both of the Bidens understand that this is a legacy-setting moment, and I would expect her to treat it that way. I also think that it's in President Biden's interest for Kamala Harris to succeed, just as it is in former President Obama's interest for Kamala Harris to succeed just as it is in Hillary Clinton's interests for Kamala Harris to succeed. 
 
We're talking about sort of the mood of the convention, and I think for those of us who were in Milwaukee, you saw a big  party for former President Trump, but it was the party thrown by the party of Trump, not the party thrown by the party of George W. Bush, George H.W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Gerald Ford, John McCain. I don't know, whatever. 
 
HUNT:  They were mysteriously absent -- 
 
TALEV:  What you see -- 
 
HUNT:  Would have been available to attend anyway. 
 
TALEV:  But here, you do see everything from the Clintons, actually, I guess Joe Biden proceeds the Clintons. But everything from the Bidens to the Clintons to the Obamas to the Bidens, this -- you know, ark of four generations of Democratic leadership in the White House and Democratic politics all kind of pinning their own legacies in some sense on Kamala Harris' success. 
 <br>[05:20:00] 
 
I think that makes it different than the Republican Convention, but I also think it is why everybody has here -- is self-interested in putting on the best show to allow Harris-Walz, that ticket to succeed. 
 
HUNT:  Shermichael, I mean, how does -- how are Republicans looking at this? Because, I mean, look, the convention in Milwaukee was also a celebration -- 
 
SINGLETON:  Yes -- 
 
HUNT:  At the time, he had just survived an assassination attempt. Biden was still at the top of the ticket, he was leading in the polls. There was an expectation he was likely to win in November. That's all changed since then. 
 
SINGLETON:  You know, it's interesting, Kasie, because here you have this sitting President speaking Monday, and we know that Vice President Harris has attempted to moderate from several of her previous positions in the past. From her first run, from her time in the U.S. Senate, we know that her campaign would like to run  as far away from President Biden's policies because generally-speaking, aren't popular for the most part. 
 
And Republicans are going to continue to attempt to define the Vice President. She hasn't been defined as much as I would think some Democrats would like. To say that Joe Biden's policies are her policies. Whether it's on the economy, whether it's on immigration, whether it's on foreign policy, you are seeing a ton of protesters here in Chicago. 
 
It's interesting because you've seen sort of the tale of two cities here started. You have Bill Clinton, where things were great during the '90s, to Barack Obama where things got a little shaky. And here we are under President Biden and President --and Vice President Kamala Harris, where a lot of people do not feel financially secure.
 
They're not happy about the state of the country writ-large, and they are worried about foreign conflicts from Russia, Ukraine, China, Taiwan, now potentially Israel and Iran. 
 
HUNT:  Yes, all right. We're going to take a quick break here coming up as Secretary of State Antony Blinken travels to Israel. It's part of the latest attempt to negotiate a ceasefire and hostage release deal. Plus, this --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TRUMP:  I believe she will be easier to beat than him, because she's a truly radical left lunatic. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HUNT:  A look at what Donald Trump has planned for this week as Democrats take Chicago.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[05:25:00] 
 
HUNT:  All right, 25 minutes past the hour, here's your morning roundup. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken once again in Israel this morning trying to secure a ceasefire in Gaza. He's meeting with top Israeli officials including the country's defense -- country's President -- Defense Minister and Prime Minister.  
 
The U.S. hopes recent talks in Qatar could help lead to a deal. Sources tell CNN Senator Bob Menendez will resign his seat effective tomorrow. The New Jersey Democrat convicted last month on 16 counts including bribery, extortion, wire fraud, obstruction of justice and acting as a foreign agent.   
 
New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy expected to appoint his former Chief the Staff George Helmy as interim senator. And today, former New York Congressman George Santos will plead guilty to federal charges relating to fraud from his 2022 midterm campaign. He previously pleaded not guilty to 23 federal charges including lying on his personal finance disclosure and fraud related to COVID-19 unemployment benefits. All right. Time now for weather. More than 170 storms reported yesterday, spanning the northeast to the southern U.S. and Connecticut. Heavy rains causing mudslides, washed-out roads -- here you can see emergency crews carrying out a water rescue last night. Let's get to Derek Van Dam for us this morning. Derek, good morning. 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, METEOROLOGIST:  Wow -- 
 
HUNT:  What are you seeing out there?   
 
VAN DAM:  Yes, dramatic videos there coming out of Connecticut within the past 12 hours, Kasie, it's still raining in some portions of eastern Connecticut. Heaviest rain right now located across the eastern sections of Long Island where a flash flood warning has been extended, you can see another heavy rain band about to impact the 195 corridor, 95 corridor will be extremely wet this morning, so, do take care.
 
Rainfall radar estimates upwards of 10 inches. This is some 1 and 200- year event for Monroe, Connecticut, so, southwestern Connecticut getting hit especially hard? There's that flash flood warning with a shading of red is located, and we still have our flood warnings in place from the rain that took place yesterday. 
 
Unfortunately, there's more precipitation in this forecast, so that could exacerbate some of the flooding at the local rivers and some of the streams as well. That's why we have a slight risk of flash flooding -- and by the way, this is not associated directly with Hurricane Ernesto, which is still churning over the northwestern Atlantic 85-mile per hour winds. 
 
This is still sending large swells into our coastlines. So, do take care, and for everybody in Chicago today at the Democratic National Convention, weather looking fantastic, lower to mid 70s, that includes you, Kasie.
 
HUNT:  It does, yes. It's lovely here. I got to see the Cubs play -- 
 
VAN DAM:  Yes -- 
 
HUNT:  At Wrigley, first-time I've ever been there -- 
 
VAN DAM:  Oh, fantastic -- 
 
HUNT:  It was wonderful there, Van Dam, thank you so much for that. All right, still ahead here on -- 
 
VAN DAM:  All right, have a great week -- 
 
HUNT:  CNN THIS MORNING -- you too. The Democratic Party quickly rallied around Kamala Harris as the new nominee. But protesters promising to try to disrupt the unity in Chicago over the Israel-Hamas war. Plus, Hillary Clinton is one of the headliners leading up to tonight's speeches at the DNC. We will preview what to expect from opening night. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  One thing we know for sure is that change is certain, progress is not. Progress depends on the choices we make today for tomorrow, and on whether we meet our challenges and protect our values. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)