Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Israel to Attend new Talks on Hostage and Ceasefire Deal; Trump Returns to the Campaign Trial; Russia Tries to Halt Ukrainian Incursion into Kursk; Paramount Cuts 15 Percent of U.S. Staff, Writes Down $6B; Letsile Tebogo Makes History for Botswana with 200M Gold. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired August 09, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this is the scene in Paris where we have another bump a day of action over the next two hours, 
 
 we'll bring you reports on all of the thrills and spills from the Olympic Games. 03:00 p.m. in Paris. It's 09.00 a.m. in New York, and it's 02:00 
 
 p.m. here in London. I'm Becky Anderson, you're watching "Connect the World".
 
Also, over the next two hours, Israel has agreed to attend talks on a hostage and cease fire deal amid fears of a wider war in the region. 
 
 Another suspect has been detained in connection with the alleged foiled terror plot targeting Taylor Swift concerts. And presidential hopefuls 
 
 Kamala Harris and Donald Trump have now officially agreed to a debate hosted by ABC on September, the 10th.
 
Well, the stock market in New York will open at 09:30 about 30 minutes from now. Futures indicating a lower open this Friday, as traders close out what 
 
 has been a somewhat roller coaster week, isn't it? The route Monday in the back mirror for many but still a keen sense of this volatility may not be 
 
 at an end until the Fed moves on interest rates.
 
It's the when, not the if, on that these days more on that, bottom of the hour. With fears of a wider war growing by the day, Israel says it will 
 
 attend talks next Thursday on ending the fighting in Gaza and getting the remaining hostages free. No word on whether Hamas will show all mediators 
 
 U.S., Qatar and Egypt pushed for these talks, saying there is no time to waste.
 
The conflict is, of course, at the heart of soaring tensions in the region you can see here. Palestinians evacuated Khan Yunis in Southern Gaza ahead 
 
 of new Israeli strikes. I'm joined now, I'm pleased to say by journalist Elliott Gotkine. Let's start with these talks, because this at the crux of 
 
 so much of what we discuss.
 
How did these talks, or at least a date for new talks come about? And how involved do we believe the U.S. Administration, the Biden Administration 
 
 is, on forcing these parties back to the table? I mean, they've got leverage on one side of course.
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST: The Biden Administration seems to be central to this. Indeed, there was an unusual joint statement put out by President 
 
 Biden and his counterparts from Egypt and Qatar, in which they said that, you know, they wanted these talks to take place.
 
And they were calling on both sides to accept this cease fire hostage deal, saying to bring immediate relief to the long-suffering people of Gaza, as 
 
 well as the long-suffering hostages and their families. And on top of that, a senior Biden Administration official telling CNN, it's time to close 
 
 this.
 
That's the president's view, that there do remain gaps between Israel and Hamas, but that the bulk of the work has been done. That said, of course, 
 
 we have, I think, three wrinkles, perhaps. First one is that we've had nine months of these talks since the last and the one and only cease fire that 
 
 took place and that came to an end, what at the end of November, and we haven't gotten over the line despite high hopes.
 
And I'm constantly reminded, and I don't want to sound like a broken record of President Biden munching on that ice cream in Michigan saying he hoped 
 
 for a deal to be done by that weekend, and that was clearly premature. And again, we don't be too optimistic, but there is always this kind of 
 
 cautious optimism that this time could be different.
 
The other wrinkle, Yahya Sinwar, of course, the mastermind, the architect of the Hamas terrorist attacks of October the 7th. He's now the overall 
 
 Head of Hamas' political arm as well. So, he's got more power. He seemed to be as closer to Iran, and also to be more of a hard liner, more of a 
 
 maximalist approach.
 
And that could also toughen these negotiations further, of course, replacing Ismail Haniyeh, who was assassinated. Israel not taking 
 
 responsibility for that. And the final one is Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's coalition partners, again they've been mouthing off again today 
 
 and threatening to effectively bolt the coalition if a cease fire deal goes ahead.
 
ANDERSON: And they have threatened that since November, since the last what was a temporary cease fire back then. And there's, of course, this -- 
 
 outstanding issue, what is a cease fire? Is it a temporary cease fire? Is it a full permanent cease fire? Is that the withdrawal of Israeli troops?
 
I mean, you know, none of us have seen the actual wording of the proposal that is on the table as it were, we know that there is negotiation around 
 
 it. So, let's these talks, at least one hopes, happen August 15th, and we'll go from there.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
Meantime, you know, we have to assume that if these talks are successful, they will go some way to pulling this region back from the brink. But 
 
 between now and August the 15th, there is every chance that, if not Iran itself, one of its proxies, Hezbollah, will attack Israel.
 
GOTKINE: Well, that's what they've been promising. And I'll just cast our minds back to April after Israel was blamed for taking out a top commander 
 
 in the Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard Corps in an Iranian consulate compound in Damascus. It was almost two weeks after that, that Iran 
 
 launched that unprecedented barrage of what, 300 missiles and drones and the like, towards Israel.
 
So now we're about 10 days after Israel did claim responsibility for taking out a top Hezbollah commander in Southern Beirut, and hasn't taken 
 
 responsibility for the assassination of Ismail Haniyeh, the Head of Hamas' political arm. And Iran has been promising a response.
 
In fact, we've been, you know, collecting a number of because, although the actual fighting hasn't been escalating, the war of words certainly has 
 
 been. So, for example, we had from Yoav Gallant, the Israeli Defense Minister, August the 8th, saying, he who plays with fire may expect 
 
 destruction.
 
That was in Arabic on X address to the Lebanese people. Then we had Hassan Nasrallah, the Head of Hezbollah, saying, maybe tonight, maybe tomorrow, 
 
 maybe in a week, prompting some gallows humor from Israeli saying, that's the kind of thing I'd expect the cable guy to tell me, or what I tell me, 
 
 or what I tell myself when I'm about to go on a diet.
 
We also had from Prime Minister Netanyahu, we will respond an exact, a heavy price for any act of aggression against us from any arena. So, kind 
 
 of anticipating an Iranian or Hezbollah response, and saying what Israel will do in the event that that happens. And then finally, from Ali 
 
 Khamenei, Iran's Supreme Leader.
 
This was just in the immediate aftermath of the assassination of Ismail Haniyeh, you have paved the way for your harsh punishment. So, he's kind of 
 
 boxed Iran into a kind of a corner, in the sense that in order to save face for the attack and also to make good on his threats, Iran or Hezbollah has 
 
 to do something.
 
The hope is that some kind of cease fire deal could provide some kind of off ramp for this, and as Nic Robertson was writing on the CNN website, 
 
 talking about the potential for Iran to be able to show the Palestinians, the Arab world that it cares more about the lives of the Palestinians than 
 
 it does about saving face or revenge against Israel.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. Thank you very much indeed. That piece that Elliot was referring to by Nic Robertson is very good read. It is on 
 
 cnn.com and on your CNN app. What happens next could be critical for the war and for the very future of the region. Then you can get all of that in 
 
 "Meanwhile in the Middle East", that is our newsletter up to the date, up to the minute developments.
 
We take a deep dive into last week's assassinations and how they could affect cease fire talks. Subscribe by scanning the QR code on the bottom of 
 
 your screen there. It's a jolly good reading. It will drop into your email box for your pleasure and delight.
 
Well, investigators in Austria have detained an Iraqi teenager in connection with the alleged thwarted terror attack, the force cancelation 
 
 of three Taylor Swift concerts in Vienna. Now Iraq's Interior Ministry says the 18-year-old pledged allegiance to ISIS, same as the 19-year-old main 
 
 suspect in the foiled attack.
 
Police detained four teens in this investigation, though, Reuters reports the youngest, a 15-year-old is being treated as a witness and has been 
 
 released. Well Salma Abdelaziz is in Vienna, and she is with a group of Swifties who of course, incredibly disappointed about the fact that these 
 
 concerts were cancelled.
 
But I think it would be fair to say most understand why it is their safety and security that was at stake here. Just describe the atmosphere where you 
 
 are, and anything further we know about the suspects and this investigation at this point?
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Becky. And I think as that fast moving the investigation takes its place unravelling this suspected 
 
 terror plot, the details of it that are so horrifying are force making their way to the crowds of Swifties that could have been -- in the cross 
 
 hairs.
 
And what they're trying to do here, Becky, is create a safe space for themselves to continue to celebrate. Just going to show you around. If you 
 
 look at this tree over here, we're just going to pan over you can see they've hung these little beaded bracelets all along the tree. Those beaded 
 
 bracelets are extremely important for Swifties.
 
It's how you make friends. You can go up to anyone in this crowd and just keep following me through, because I want you to get a sense of just how 
 
 they keep filling the streets with their favorite songs, dancing quite literally in the streets in Vienna. And I want to introduce you to one of 
 
 Swifties right here -- I know we were just talking -- your name again.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
 
ABDELAZIZ: If you don't need to hold it --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh OK.
 
ABDELAZIZ: Can you tell me your name?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my name is Kendra (ph).
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
ABDELAZIZ: OK. Kendra, tell me how you are feeling, because I know we were speaking and you were saying you're so happy to be here, even though the 
 
 concert got cancelled.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah. I am so happy because I can see how big of a community we are and how much we love and I just really happy we get to do 
 
 this, even though our concert is got cancelled we can find a light to darkness.
 
ABDELAZIZ: And can I have your permission to just show your outfit. You have your beads, of course, so that if you want to exchange any bracelets 
 
 with anyone? Miss Americana, the pink dress. What made you wear your outfits wear? Are you happy to wear your outfit?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah, I'm really glad I get to wear it, even though I'm not going to the concert. I'm just happy to wear it in public and to 
 
 see people --
 
ABDELAZIZ: When you look around and you see everyone just singing, coming together, how does that make you feel?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Make me really happy to see more people do the things that I love as well.
 
ABDELAZIZ: And not that sentiment, Becky, really, is echoed throughout so many of these organic events that keep popping up and across the -- I'm 
 
 just going to keep walking you a little bit here for you to get that sense of the crowd in all of these Swifties of course, some of them were 
 
 scheduled for one of those three concerts, so this is going to continue for several days.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah. Good for them. Thank you. Well, presidential candidates Kamala Harris and Donald Trump have officially agreed to a debate hosted by 
 
 a TV network ABC on December the 10th. Trump said he's agreed to three debates, while Harris has not yet confirmed whether she will debate Trump 
 
 more than once.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S., (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I'm glad that he's finally agreed to a debate on September 10th. I'm looking 
 
 forward to it, and hope he shows up.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you open to more debates?
 
HARRIS: I'm happy to have that conversation about an additional debate for after September 10th.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Meanwhile, both campaigns are back on the trail. Vice President Harris Senate running mate Minnesota Governor Tim Walz will hold a campaign 
 
 event in Arizona before heading to Nevada today. Trump himself planning to appear at a rally in Montana tonight to support a Republican candidate for 
 
 Senate.
 
Well CNN's Edward-Isaac Dovere is following the Harris campaign for us. Daniel Strauss, covering all things Trump, both Joining us now from 
 
 Washington. Look, Isaac, there's a couple of things really this potential for a debate. I mean, I wonder whether Harris is relishing that 
 
 opportunity.
 
Given that we are beginning to see some movement in these polls at present, and certainly there does seem to be some support now for Harris, which the 
 
 Biden campaign did not have. What's your sense at this point?
 
EDWARD-ISAAC DOVERE, CNN SENIOR REPORTER: Yeah, look at debates are often looked at by campaigns as a way to change the dynamics in their favor. That 
 
 is something that the Biden campaign had been hoping that June debate would do in Biden's favor, obviously did not.
 
Now, Trump is looking at a situation where the polls have shifted, and he is looking at a tighter race, and in some cases, in some polls, with Harris 
 
 ahead, he is now looking at wanting to change the dynamics of this race. And the evidence of that is that just Friday night last week, he said he 
 
 would only do a debate on Fox in an arena full of supporters.
 
It's the only debate he would do. And then yesterday, he said he agreed to three debates, not the Fox one at all, but the one that had been previously 
 
 set by the Trump and Biden campaigns that Harris had now herself want to do, and then two others, which so far Harris has not agreed to.
 
ANDERSON: Daniel, let me bring you in. Until last night, at least, people have been asking where Trump has been. And then we saw him last night. If 
 
 you are a Trump supporter, what you heard last night is just him doubling down on the issues that perhaps you know, it's the reason that you support 
 
 him.
 
And if you're not a Trump supporter, he was doubling down on a lot of stuff, which people just find quite remarkable, really. What is he expected 
 
 to come out with tonight?
 
DANIEL STRAUSS, CNN REPORTER: Look, I mean, this is a continuation of a somewhat, at this point, antiquated strategy. This was Trump is in Montana 
 
 under the assumption that he would continue leading the race and that he would need a robust majority in the Senate to pass his agenda.
 
Now that's a situation that has changed in the last three weeks, and it's pretty clear that the Trump campaign needs to change the dynamic. Montana 
 
 is home to the most watched, the most contentious race, Senate races cycle between Jon Tester and Tim Sheehy. And I've heard from Republicans and 
 
 Democrats say that that is the toss up race to watch.
 
So, it makes sense that even in a close presidential race, you would want the nominee to be there if you were the Senate candidate, but this is a 
 
 state that usually goes Republican, and so there's not a huge amount of benefit that Trump gets out of it.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
But Trump himself has pushed back on that narrative and that he's not campaigning enough. I think we've got the audio for that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Why haven't you been campaigning this week?
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Because I'm leading by a lot, and because I'm letting their convention go 
 
 through, and I am campaigning a lot. I'm doing tremendous amounts of taping here. We have commercials that are at a level I don't think that anybody 
 
 has ever done before. I'm speaking to you on phones. I'm speaking to radio. I'm speaking to television. Televisions coming over here. Excuse me. What 
 
 are we doing right now?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STRAUSS: So, there you have it, a sort of defensive Trump on the level of his campaigning, and this comes again, as the dynamic has shifted. He's no 
 
 longer running against someone who is about his age. He's running against a ticket that is substantially younger and presents as more vigorous, not 
 
 only in just their bios, but as in a campaign schedule over the last week. It's something that the Trump campaign is going to have to grapple with 
 
 over the next few days.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you both. And later this hour, we'll hear from Wisconsin voters, as the Trump and Harris campaigns hope to win that key 
 
 battle ground state. First up though a new and massive attack by Ukraine today Friday, as Russia tries to repel a cross-border incursion. What is 
 
 going on here and what's the goal? That is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Haiti has been torn apart by gang violence recently. It's been going on, though, for years. Earlier this year, the fighting and 
 
 unrest, escalated causing a humanitarian crisis. Well, now the weary population is hoping that the deployment of Kenyan forces to try and tackle 
 
 the violence will help lead to peace. My colleague, Larry Madowo travel to the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, and this is his report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Gun battles rage on the street outside one of Haiti's biggest hospitals. Kenyan police here to help 
 
 local forces take back the capital from the gangs. The first 400 officers from Nairobi quickly learning how volatile Port-au-Prince can be. Minutes 
 
 earlier, CNN was touring what is left of the hospital after gangs trashed it. The country's interim prime minister telling us it was just reclaimed.
 
GARRY CONILLE, INTERIM HAITIAN PRIME MINISTER: There is no tactical or strategic value for the gangs taking over this. This is really just about 
 
 completely discrediting the state.
 
MADOWO: Is enough funding coming through for the multinational security support mission here?
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
CONILLE: Unfortunately, not enough and not quickly enough. Now we understand there are a lot of emergencies going on out. We understand there 
 
 is, to a certain extent, some Haiti fatigue. The good news is that there is hope.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): Midway through the interview, shots ring out.
 
MADOWO: Right?
 
CONILLE: This was really --
 
MADOWO (voice-over): The security details springs into action.
 
MADOWO: We've been told we have to leave now. We've had shots in the air. The gangs are getting close up.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): The prime minister and our team are rushed away. The constant menace of gang violence dominating life here, even for the 
 
 country's leader. As night falls, we head out on patrol with Kenya's elite police forces who have been brought in to help turn things around.
 
MADOWO: They're using four of these American supplied MRAPs or tactical vehicles, and we're going to patrol from the airport, which used to be 
 
 under gang control until very recently, into the downtown area, which is still contested.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): CNN was granted exclusive access to film the Kenyans leading an international security force that is expected to grow to 2500 
 
 officers from 12 countries, funded mainly by the United States, Haitian police lead the way as a convoy scan surrounding buildings for any 
 
 suspicious activity. We soon come under fire. Thousands of bullets hit the vehicles.
 
MADOWO: The officers are very casual about it. They're calling it rain. I guess they're used to it. We're hearing a few more from this side of the 
 
 truck.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): Some of these men in Haiti say they have fought Al- Qaeda affiliated terrorists on the Kenya Somalia border.
 
MADOWO: Do you think you guys can bring peace here?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have a lot of confidence that we are going to win this battle.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): More gun shots as we turn back, but the police decide not to engage. Back at headquarters, the damage from the night becomes 
 
 clear. With 85 percent of Port-au-Prince under gang control. Civilians here are paying a heavy price. This is one of the few operational hospitals in 
 
 the capital, located in the city's red zone and surrounded by gang territory.
 
22-year-old Nehteli Mahty (ph) has brought her malnourished baby in for treatment. She was raped by a gang member, she tells me, and has had to 
 
 flee her home because of the violence. The hospital lost half of its staff last year. Those remaining are determined not to give up.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have to fight back.
 
MADOWO: You can't leave it for the gang member?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I can't leave it for gang. Someone has to fight back. Someone has to stand up.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): With an estimated 2 million Haitians living in fear of being raped or killed in their homes, fighting back against the gangs is 
 
 now an international effort. Haitian forces and their allies need resources, but leaders here tell us funding and equipment are not arriving 
 
 fast enough.
 
GODFREY OTUNGE, COMMANDER OF MULTINATIONAL SECURITY SUPPORT MISSION HAITI: It's a matter of support if they can be given the equipment that they need. 
 
 These are the brave and courageous people.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): Through it all this wary nation still has high hopes for peace. Larry Madowo, CNN, Port-au-Prince Haiti.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Want to turn to Ukraine now, at least 11 people have been killed and 37 have been injured in a Russian strike on a supermarket in Eastern 
 
 Ukraine. Now it is Russia's response after days of Ukrainian assault across its border is showing no let up.
 
It launched a quote, massive drone attack on Russia's Western Lipetsk region early Friday, according to that region's governor, he says multiple 
 
 people were wounded in the attack which damaged energy infrastructure. This region is even deeper into Russia than Kursk, where Russian officials say 
 
 the fighting appears to be ongoing.
 
Some residents there appealed for help on social media, rejecting Moscow's claims that the situation is under control. Well, Ukraine's Former Deputy 
 
 Minister of Defense, Alina Frolova joins me now from Kyiv. It's good to have you. A Ukrainian source tells CNN that the latest strike inside Russia 
 
 in a place called Lipetsk, destroyed an ammunition depot.
 
In this video, we're seeing a destroyed military convoy in the Kursk region. What's your understanding of the damage these attacks are achieving 
 
 from Ukraine's point of view? And what's the goal here?
 
ALINA FROLOVA, FORMER UKRAINIAN DEPUTY DEFENSE MINISTER: Well, this is a little bit two different attacks, those which are reaching the depot, it's 
 
 just like a usual and already like usual practice for Ukraine when we try to reach the storages and hit the logistics on Russian territory to 
 
 decrease their capability in making war.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
However, the course is absolutely different situation, because this is the first actual enter of Ukrainian troops at Russia territory, which still is 
 
 not acknowledged by Ukrainian government, but we obviously see that this is some specific operation with some specific goals, which we can just guess 
 
 what those goals are?
 
ANDERSON: Well, let's guess. I mean, you know yours is a good guess because you were the --
 
FROLOVA: Yeah, let's guess. And my gesture is that there are, like, a few goals. The first one is like to try to squeeze the Russian troops to this 
 
 location, and to make them to relocate from other locations, from the front line, where Ukraine is suffering from the like an overcrowded troops 
 
 presence, this is first.
 
The second one, obviously, we demonstrate that Russia is quite weak from the military point of view. And the constant fear of escalation and 
 
 expected like a rough reaction of Russia is not something which are in reality.
 
ANDERSON: Right. You said earlier this year, and I quote you here, you are absolutely sure that we, Ukraine will have enough partners to fight this 
 
 war and to win this war. Do you still feel that confidence? And how does this incursion bring Ukraine any closer to winning, do you think?
 
FROLOVA: Well, I think that we even closer to this. And my feeling is, I feel even strong day in my beliefs, because for now on, we have the long-
 
 term contribution and obligations from the European states, which became to be more sustainable and long-term planning. So, this is already obligation 
 
 for this year and for next year.
 
We have, like, multiple support from those countries who were not active before. We hope still that we will keep the support from United States. And 
 
 we have some long-term obligations also. So, it doesn't seem, and you see now the reaction on the course cooperation.
 
Before one year ago, we could probably have some kind of hysterical reaction from our partners. However, now everyone is like taking it, not 
 
 even like -- good action, but they are supporting it --
 
ANDERSON: There is some concern that they weren't necessarily told about it, though. I mean, and that's possibly, you know, another conversation. 
 
 Perhaps I should ask you that very specifically, you know, would you be surprised if, for example, the U.S. had not been warned that this incursion 
 
 was going to happen with the support of, of course, U.S. military hardware and European hardware as well.
 
FROLOVA: Well, I don't know specifically where they've been word. I don't, but this is the Ukrainian operations, and we have, like, we are not using 
 
 that weapons which are officially not, like, somehow not allowed to use by, for example, American partners. So that's like a Ukrainian.
 
We are in war, and we do not violate the war rules and laws. We follow all the international war rules. So, this is nothing which we can be stopped 
 
 from.
 
ANDERSON: It's good to have you. I do want our viewers, and I'm just going to play this to close this out, thank you.
 
FROLOVA: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Let's just get our viewers what Donald Trump said in his press conference last night, just speaking about Ukraine. Let's have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Russia would have never hit Ukraine had the election result been called differently. It was a very bad call, but Russia would not have 
 
 attacked Ukraine. October 7th in Israel would have never happened. You wouldn't have inflation. A lot of great things would have happened. But now 
 
 you have millions and millions of dead people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: With the possibility of Donald Trump's return to the White House. Of course, there may be now discussions about an eventual need for a peace, 
 
 negotiated peace, a brokered peace, and we know that there will be a peace summit in November. We'll discuss that and more coming up on this show. 
 
 Thank you for joining us.
 
Next, an entertainment giant announces major cuts. Why layoffs at Paramount are another sign of big trouble for the TV industry. More on that after 
 
 this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson. Welcome back out of London. For you this week, we are keeping a keen eye on 
 
 what's going on Wall Street. Let's bring those numbers up for you.
 
Minute and a half or two minutes into the trading day, and this is the story, slightly lower. Let's call it a mix open, really mix to lower open. 
 
 There are some stocks that are trading higher, but the overarching sort of picture is a week's worth of a roller coaster, really, for many traders, 
 
 parts of the market saw both their worst and best days since 2022.
 
Some of the big issues investors are watching, of course, concerns over natural gas supplies to Europe. More trouble in the TV industry with 
 
 Paramount saying it will cut 15 percent of its U.S. staff. Hadas Gold is here with more. And look, we've had paramount in the news of late.
 
So perhaps we shouldn't have been surprised by, you know, an announcement on job losses. We've certainly seen the stock go higher in response to 
 
 that. What's the Paramount story for the benefit of our viewers? And what do its cuts mean in the wider context of the other news we've had this 
 
 week?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN MEDIA CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Becky. I mean, in 24 hours, about $15 billion in the TV industry just went poof disappeared because of 
 
 these write downs. Just yesterday, we were talking about our parent company, Warner Brothers Discovery, writing down in an impairment charge, 
 
 more than $9 billion.
 
Now Paramount writing down a massive $6 billion that just goes to show you, those numbers show you what is happening to the linear TV industry, because 
 
 Paramount, similar to Warner Brothers Discovery, is very much a linear TV cable operator. They do have streaming but a lot of this decline is coming 
 
 from its linear TV.
 
It is an iconic company. Has channels like Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, MTV. It also has the Mission Impossible franchises. But in the last five 
 
 years, shares of Paramount have fallen 80 percent remember yesterday we talked about how Warner Brothers Discovery, when you look at the value when 
 
 it went through previous mergers, went from like 85 billion down to 18 billion.
 
It's stunning to see how quickly this industry is changing. So yesterday, Paramount announced that it is slashing 15 percent of its staff. That's 
 
 around 2000 jobs. This is ahead of its merger takeover by Skydance. They're trying to cut $500 million ahead of this merger that's expected to happen 
 
 next year.
 
This was, of course, a major merger takeover had its many ups and downs, lots of drama. Will it? Won't it happen? It has happened. It's expected to 
 
 close next year. So that's why they're going through all of these cuts right now. Now, Jeff Shell, you might remember that name. He was the Former 
 
 CEO of NBC Universal.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
He is expected to come in and be the Head of this New Paramount Skydance Company. He said last month that we know that linear is challenged and 
 
 declining. We've got to run these businesses in a different way as they decline. It feels like right now, Becky, in the sort of media, TV 
 
 entertainment industry, there's a lot of the haves and the have nots.
 
The haves are the companies like the Netflix is like the YouTubes that are just doing really, really well. And then you have the have nots and some of 
 
 these traditional linear TV industries that are trying. And there are some bright spots in streaming, but they are not doing necessarily as well.
 
And I would just want to quote from this The Wall Street Journal reporter, Amol Sharma, who, I think, said it really well. He said cable TV is often 
 
 called a melting ice cube, because these trends are gradual and persistent, but it is as if the company saw ice in their glass, turned away for five 
 
 years, and then this week, noticed it's a puddle of water, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Hadas, thank you. Well, U.S. Vice President Harris and her running mate Tim Walz have hit the campaign trail again Wednesday and 
 
 Thursday, packed crowds in the swing states of Wisconsin and Michigan. Walz highlighted his Midwest roots and record of working with Republicans as a 
 
 member of Congress.
 
CNN's Randi Kaye speaks to voters in Wisconsin as the Trump and Harris campaigns fight for their votes. Have a look at this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In Eau Claire, Wisconsin.
 
KAYE: What do you want to hear from Kamala Harris and Tim Walz?
 
BARBARA DEROSIEL, HARRIS CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: Oh, just the truth. Peaceful, joyfulness, happiness. None fighting, no more divisiveness, just positive 
 
 energy.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Two different campaign events.
 
KAYE: Are you hopeful that the Trump, Vance team can win Wisconsin?
 
BUD SHERRY, TRUMP CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: Yes, and I think he's growing every day in Wisconsin.
 
KAYE (voice-over): And two very different opinions from voters outside the rally for Vice President Kamala Harris and her newly minted running mate, 
 
 Tim Walz, voters could hardly contain their excitement.
 
CINDY SAMPLES, HARRIS CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: -- when Kamala became the presidential candidate, my whole being changed. I've been really upset and 
 
 worried and fear.
 
KAYE: And now you feel, how?
 
SAMPLES: Hopeful.
 
KAYE: What do you love about Governor Walz?
 
SAMPLES: That he's down to earth, and it's my own damn business, and he called the other people weird. I like that.
 
KAYE: What did you think when you heard that Harris chose Governor Tim Walz as her running mate?
 
TODD ADAMS, HARRIS CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: I thought it was a good move, you know, I think he's well known around here, and I think he's got the right 
 
 attitude, you know. And I just hope everything keeps on a positive trajectory, and we can talk about what really matters for the people in 
 
 this country here.
 
JIM DEROSIEL, HARRIS CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: I like his truthfulness and the things he's done for the State of Minnesota are amazing.
 
KAYE (voice-over): But just about five miles down the road at J.D. Vance's event, these voters had nothing nice to say about Harris or Walz.
 
JANE FLEMMING, TRUMP CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: We can't go four more years, much less four months as we are now. So, we're hoping for a big change.
 
JUDY CULVER, TRUMP CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: Like Trump said, if she gets in, America is going to be a bloodbath. It's just we need to get Trump in and 
 
 bring America back great again.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Some zeroed in on Walz handling of the riots in Minnesota following the death of George Floyd.
 
DEB CHRISTOPHERSON, TRUMP CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: He let Minneapolis burn down, and he didn't call in the National Guard. And then she --
 
KAYE: -- did eventually call in the National Guard --
 
CHRISTOPHERSON: Five days. OK, five days later, OK, little too late. And then to say that it was peaceful, and there was nothing peaceful about what 
 
 happened there.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Back across town, Harris, Walz supporters pushed back on Trump's running mate. J. D. Vance.
 
LINDA RUNSTROM, HARRIS CAMPAIGN SUPPORTER: Oh, I read his book, I thought he was a different person when I read that book. But no, he's shown his 
 
 true colors.
 
KAYE (voice-over): And they were even less complimentary of the man at the top of the Republican ticket.
 
KAYE: How do you feel when you hear Donald Trump say things about Kamala Harris, like she just recently turned black?
 
SAMPLES: Well, it just shows what a horrible person he is and his -- he's racist.
 
ADAMS: It's just meant to kind of incite and divide. And I'm tired of that. I think a lot of people are, as evidenced by the people here today.
 
B. DEROSIEL: Oh my God, in my soul, just the joy she brings and him is just positive. I mean, for we even had such negativity for how many years, since 
 
 2016 since the escalator incident. I'm just done with it. I think America is too.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, we will get you some sports and get you some joy. History made for Botswana on the Olympic track in Paris. We hear from the winner of 
 
 the men's 200 meters on what was a very, very emotional victory.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, yet another first in track and field at the Olympics in Paris. Botswana's Letsile Tebogo winning his first ever gold medal. The 
 
 country's first ever gold medal in the men's 200-meter race. The achievement prompting Botswana's President to declare a public holiday. And 
 
 why not? Amanda Davies joining us from Paris. What a result. And then, you know, a decision well made on the back of it by the president.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, very much. What a result. A new African record in the 200 meters. He's actually become the youngest 200 
 
 meters Olympic champion since the 1950s that's how much he's burst onto the scene at the age of 21. It was really an emotional night for him.
 
He lost his mother just a couple of months ago, and he paid tribute to her, not only with his words, but his spikes, and, of course, his actions. And 
 
 Becky, he's been out on track this morning in the relay, but still found time to join our sports show live a little bit earlier on. We've got more 
 
 of that coming up in just a couple of minutes.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, wonderful. Thank you, Amanda. "World Sport" is up next that follows this break. We will be back after that top of the hour for the 
 
 second hour of "Connect the World". Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END