Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. Conducts Its Airdrops Of Aid To Gaza; 15 States Will Hold GOP Contests On Super Tuesday, March 5; Winter Storm Wreaking Havoc Across Sierra Nevadas; Largest Wildfires In Texas Scorches 1 Million Acres; Biden Reads Book On Resolving "Impossible" Conflicts; Doctors Stage Mass Demonstration In Seoul. Aired 5-6a ET

Aired March 03, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:36]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN HOST: Hello and welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom." 
 
The U.S. makes its first humanitarian airdrop into Gaza. The aid agencies say the move is a temporary band aid. We're live in Washington D.C. with a look at what the Biden administration's next steps are. 
 
Plus. Super Tuesday is just days away. But for many voters eyes are already on the general election. We'll get how the new polls out this weekend should concern the Democrats. 
 
And it is the hottest ticket in town. Iowa Caitlin Clark is on the brink of breaking the all-time NCAA scoring record. CNN's Sports Coy Wire joins me live. Look at how Clark has her sights set on making history today.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Kim Brunhuber.
 
BRUNHUBER: The first U.S. airdrop of aid is on the ground in Gaza. Three Americans C-130s dropped 66 bundles of food on Saturday. President Biden says the amount of aid going into Gaza is not nearly enough. We're now learning that U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris is due to meet with Israeli War Cabinet Member Benny Gantz on Monday. It comes as a U.S. official tells CNN that Israel has quote, "basically accepted a six-week ceasefire and hostage release proposal in Gaza." 
 
Now, negotiators are waiting for Hamas to agree to a defined category of vulnerable hostages. The U.S. is hoping to have a ceasefire in place before the start of Ramadan, which is about a week away. 
 
CNN White House Correspondent Priscilla Alvarez has more on the ceasefire talks and the U.S. efforts to get aid into Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: The White House on Saturday described the humanitarian airdrop in Gaza as successful precaution that more still needs to be done. And here's what we know about the operation that happened on Saturday. It included 66 bundles that were dropped in Gaza. It was done with the Jordanian Air Force and in total included 38,000 meals. There was no water or medical supplies that were part of this operation. 
 
And U.S. officials say they chose the location based off assessments so that people were sheltering in that area, and were in need. And after the fact, they saw that civilians did approach the assistance and that they began distributing it. But administration officials made clear that this is not enough that they want to flood the zone that includes humanitarian airdrops, as well as exploring other avenues like a maritime corridor. 
 
And they also noted that none of that is a substitute to the crossings into Gaza and making sure that those land crossings are also available to surge as much aid as possible into a region that has been grappling with a worsening humanitarian crisis. Of course, all of this comes as those hostage deal talks continue. 
 
And a senior administration official told reporters on Saturday that Israel has, quote, "basically accepted a framework." That framework includes a six-week ceasefire that would allow for the release of hostages who are deemed vulnerable. That includes women, the elderly and the wounded, as well as more assistance to get into Gaza. 
 
And over the course of those six-weeks, the expectation is that officials could continue to hammer out some of the stickier points like the release of hostages, who are also IDF members as well as to establish a more enduring plan. 
 
Now, this comes ahead of a meeting with Vice President Kamala Harris and Israeli War Cabinet Member Benny Gantz on Monday where the two are expected to talk about all of this as well as day after planning for Gaza as the clock ticks for the hostage deal, but also to address this worsening crisis in Gaza. Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: The IDF says it carried out what it called a precision strike on Islamic Jihad targets in Rafah on Saturday, but Gaza officials say the strike killed at least 11 people in a refugee camp near maternity hospital. 
 
In a statement, the IDF said, it targeted Islamic Jihad terrorists and terror infrastructure. It also said the hospital wasn't damaged. But Gaza's Health Ministry says as many as 50 people were wounded including children. Gaza officials say a paramedic and a nurse were among those who were killed. 
 
All right, our next guest Daiana Al-Bukhari fled the fighting in Gaza City in the early days of the war. She and her family are now living in Rafah and she's posting to social media about the difficulties Palestinians in Rafah struggle with every day. Listen to this. [05:05:01]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAIANA AL-BUKHARI, DISPLACED PALESTINIAN LIVING IN RAFAH: I've been displaced three times. And I've ended up here in this school. And there is no electricity, no food, no clean water. You have to queue for hours just to take a shower or to use toilet.
 
We're expecting the Israeli forces coming to Rafah very soon. And people here are so depressed and suffering because they lost everything. When I say everything, meaning everything.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: And Daiana Al-Bukhari joins us live now from Rafah. So thank you so much for being here with us. So that video was from a little while ago. So just give us an update, what are the conditions for you and others there right now, there in Rafah?
 
AL-BUKHARI: Actually, the conditions are challenging. And I am covering the best I can. I live in a displacement school. We have zero privacy and live in a classroom with many families. We wait for hours for our basic needs. Like I have to use the same water for everything, including drinking and showering. I have to wait also in a line to for hours to use the toilet and to take some food if it's available. 
 
With most of the time I interview people, I share (ph) their stories but limited solar power makes it hard to keep my phone charger. So most of the day I -- I'm cut off from world outside.
 
BRUNHUBER: I mean, just incredibly challenging conditions for you and so many people there. In that video that we posted you had expressed the fear that the military was going to come in. Is there a sense of relief that the Israeli army is pausing military activities in Rafah, at least for now for humanitarian purposes? I mean, what difference might that make concretely for you?
 
AL-BUKHARI: Actually, if they enter Gaza, Rafah, as they say, Deir al Balah, I think this will be horrible. I think, you know, it's -- Rafah is so crowded area and if they enter Rafah, I think it will be our new century earlier massacre.
 
BRUNHUBER: A lot of people around the world were -- were really saddened to see the -- the number of people who died in that. You know, I guess, when they were trying to get food at that aid truck, you know, people dying just to get food. I mean, it really speaks to how desperate people are. I just want to get your thoughts on the -- on the tragedy that happened.
 
AL-BUKHARI: Kim, have you heard about the most expensive bag of the flour?
 
BRUNHUBER: Tell me about it.
 
AL-BUKHARI: It costs more than 150 innocent human beings, 150 innocent Palestinian. They are targeted a few -- a few days ago, while trying to get a flour from the few tracks that do get in after lunch time of waiting in hunger most of the flour now are mixed with the blood of murders. It's a flour massacre, Kim. And 2024, it's a moderate century massacre. Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: I've seen your Instagram posts and you -- you do express gratitude for being alive. But you also talk about, you know, getting sick. And I sense a real sense of despair and sadness. How are you coping mentally with the strain that this is taking day after day, week after week?
 
AL-BUKHARI: You know, the medications, it's so -- it's so limited, and the people situation here about the -- the mentally situation and their health is so bad. So it's all limited.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah. We've seen, you know, we played that one clip from -- from social media. I just want to give another example of what you've been posting. Listen here.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AL-BUKHARI: Hi, it's Daiana from Gaza. Today, I want to show you where I live with my family since I evacuated or actually I live in this small space. Because we share one classroom with many families. So we have only this small space. And you might ask me why we arranged a bit this table this way. Actually, it's my mom's idea. She thinks that when we put our heads this way, protects us from any bombings or in airstrikes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, I'm not sure that a desk would protect you from an air strike, but I guess it's the best you can do. What are you hoping to tell the world with your posts?
 
AL-BUKHARI: I tried to tell them to believe us to believe our story. And I tried to send a message -- a message to the leaders and to stop this -- this massacres that happening here. We are in 2024 and this almost stop.
 <br>[05:10:05]
 
You know, there is a lot of organizations talk about the human rights, where are these human rights now? I think they're just applied in some areas, the strong areas.
 
BRUNHUBER: But before we go, I just wanted to ask you about this. How hopeful are you for a ceasefire? And is there any feeling that the clock is ticking and time may be running out for many people there in Rafah?
 
AL-BUKHARI: Actually, a ceasefire should be the first step towards a lasting peace I should open the door for a real conversation to address the root of this conflict. A human beings deserve stability and safety. A ceasefire should be a case to the immediate violence and to all violence. Let's BRUNHUBER: Let's hope there is an end to violence. We wish you all the best there. Daiana Al-Bukhari, thank you so much for speaking with us. 
 
AL-BUKHARI: You're welcome. Thank you. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Now, CNN has gathered a list of vetted organizations that are on the ground responding to the humanitarian crisis in Israel and Gaza, and you can find details on how you can help a special section of our website, CNN.com/impact.
 
Thousands of protesters arrived in Jerusalem Saturday after a four-day march across Israel. Have a look.
 
They gathered outside Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's his house and the Knesset. They're demanding the Israeli government do more to get the hostages released. Organizers say 20,000 people took part in either the march or Saturday's rally in Tel Aviv more protests, anti- government demonstrators gathered to call for early elections.
 
All right now to U.S. politics in the looming Super Tuesday nominating contests that are just two days away, 865 delegates will be up for grabs in 15 states. It takes more than 1200 delegates to win the GOP presidential nomination. 
 
Donald Trump racked up more wins Saturday. He claimed nearly 85% of the vote in Idaho's caucuses compared to just over 13% for rival Nikki Haley. 
 
Missouri's Republicans also held caucuses on Saturday. Trump commanded a whopping 100% of that vote. Trump now has 247 total delegates compared to Haley's 24. 
 
Now, despite his ongoing successes, Trump is trying to turn his focus away from the nominating contest and toward the general election. During a rally on Saturday, the former President called himself a dissident. He also made a series of untrue claims about his legal issues, falsely claiming the dozens of criminal charges against him in four states are nothing but political persecution. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Every time the radical left Democrats, Marxist, communist, and fascist indict me, I consider it a great badge of honor. I'm being indicted for you. I am. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. 
 
(CHEERING &amp; APPLAUSE)
 
I stand before you today, not only as your past and hopefully future president but as a proud political dissident. And as a public enemy of a rogue regime. This is a rogue and dangerous regime.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile, Nikki Haley is pressing on despite the formidable odds against her. She vowed to stay in the race through Super Tuesday. On Saturday, she picked up endorsements from two influential female GOP senators Maine's Susan Collins and Alaska's Lisa Murkowski. And she touted a new poll that suggested she could beat Biden by a wider margin than the survey gave Trump. CNN's Steve Contorno has more from Virginia Super Tuesday state where Trump rallied his supporters on Saturday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Former President Donald Trump held rallies on Saturday in North Carolina and here in Virginia, two states that will vote on Super Tuesday. But even though their primaries are right around the corner, former President Trump was mostly looking ahead to a likely general election with President Biden. He spoke especially about his recent trip to the border and what he saw.
 
TRUMP: Biden's conduct on our border is by any definition, a conspiracy to overthrow the United States of America. You know, he talks about democracy, he is a danger to democracy. He is. Number one, he goes after his political opponent, which nobody has ever done in this country. They do it in third world countries very well. They do it. But they're not going to succeed with us. They're not going to succeed. It's making us stronger. It's making us stronger. Biden and his accomplices want to collapse the American system, nullified the will of the actual American voters that established a new base of power that gives them control for generations. 
 
CONTORNO: Meanwhile, former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley on the campaign trail as well in North Carolina continuing to make the case that she would be more electable than President Trump in a general election, pointing to a new poll that showed her with a 10-point lead over President Biden.
 <br>[05:15:12]
 
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think there's another New York Times poll that shows us I think Donald Trump's squeak spy and we went by 10 points. If you look at the Hispanic numbers in that it's off the charts. It's double digits. We continue to make ground. 
 
CONTORNO: Trump on Saturday also adding to his delegate lead over Nikki Haley. CNN projects that he has won all 32 delegates in the Idaho caucuses, all 54 delegates in the Missouri caucuses and at a Michigan convention held on Saturday 39 more delegates were awarded to President Trump, his total now at 247, well on his way to the 1215 he will need to secure the nomination. Of course many of those delegates will be awarded on Tuesday, Steve Contorno, CNN, Richmond, Virginia.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, I want to tell you more about that New York Times and Siena College Poll. Steve mentioned just moments ago, it surveyed 980 registered voters during the last week of February and the results were concerning for President Biden, only 18% of respondents thought that they personally benefited from Biden's policies. Meanwhile, 14% of respondents say they did personally benefit from
 
 Trump's policies still on CNN poll of polls shows the race for president a toss-up at the moment, the most recent numbers and in general election matchup continue to show no clear winner between the two, with Trump at 48% and Biden at 46%. 
 
Lawmakers in Pakistan have elected a new Prime Minister. Shehbaz Sharif will lead a coalition government of his Pakistan's people party and the Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz party. The decision comes nearly a month after Pakistan's general election. That vote came with widespread allegations of vote rigging and delayed results. 
 
Former Prime Minister Imran Khan's party won the most seats in parliament but no party had a majority. This will be Sharif's second term as Prime Minister. 
 
All right, much more to come here on CNN Newsroom, including a look at the U.S. President's weekend in Camp David and his reading material which focuses on solving intractable problems. The devastation grows from those massive wildfires raging across the Texas Panhandle. We'll have the latest.
 
Plus, nature is hitting California hard with a nasty winter blast. Look at the blizzard conditions bringing heavy snow and hurricane force winds. That's all coming up.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Extreme impacts from a rare blizzard in California. We're measuring snow in feet. Visibility quite dangerous. We're tracking the snow for you. Plus, still looking at wildfires likely in Texas. That forecast, that's coming up next.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[05:21:41]
 
BRUNHUBER: Late winter storm is slamming California. Winds on Mammoth Mountain reached 75 miles per hour on Saturday, parts of the Sierra Nevada Mountains have been hit with more than three feet of snow with more expected blizzard conditions of reduced visibility on roads, take down power lines, and created hurricane force winds topping 100 miles per hour in some places. 
 
The extreme conditions also forced Interstate 80 to close for more than a day and it will remain closed until further notice. 6 million people in the region are under winter weather alerts and tens of thousands of people are without power. Blizzard conditions will remain in effect until Sunday evening. CNN Meteorologist Elisa Raffa has more on what the west can expect in the hours and days ahead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAFFA: Impacts from this winter storm are extreme. The weather service using words like dangerous and life threatening to describe some of these impacts. Look at all these deep purples in the Sierra Nevadas. That's where
 
 we're looking at impossible travel from heavy snow and gusty winds that is not only making visibility tough to see but it's even knocking out some power whiteout conditions damaging winds from those gusts and extremely heavy snowfall rates. We're talking up to four inches of snow per hour. 
 
Some of the snowfall totals just through Saturday are measured in feet. We're talking 27 inches from Homewood mountain, and we're finding some totals already over 40 inches, 42 inches in Kingvale, California, Soda Springs nearing 40 inches. So just incredible to see the feet of snow already falling and these blizzard warnings continue through a decent chunk of Sunday. So expecting additional feet on top of that. 
 
And you can see that too, where all that moisture comes in off the Pacific. You've got the rain showers along the coast but once we hit some of that colder air in the higher elevations, you get that snow machine to keep pumping as we go through the day on Sunday. Additional snow likely as we go into Monday as well, that we're looking at totals possible up to 12 feet locally and some of the highest elevations over five to 6000 feet to some of those highest peaks up to 12 feet of snow. 
 
But even in some of the lower elevations, we're still measuring that snow three to four to five feet. So just really incredible. And it's coming with wind gusts that have been just incredible over 100 miles per hour, 114 mile per hour wind gusts that has been reported at Mammoth Mountain in California, some gusts nearing 150 miles per hour near Alpine Meadows. So this wind that's where you get the damaging part of it and you get the whiteout conditions and the blizzard conditions as well. 
 
Now, we could continue to find these gusts upwards of 50 to 60 miles per hour in California as we go through Sunday now. But the storm is so impactful that those wind gusts are spreading inland into the Central Plains where we're looking at wind gusts up to 30 miles per hour possible from Albuquerque, Amarillo, and then up into the Oklahoma Panhandle.
 
Now, couple those gusty winds with incredibly dry air, that's where that fire danger is continuing. You've got relative humidity values that are down to 20% or lower as we go through the next day or so. So that's keeping that fire danger elevated as we go through Sunday because we have the strong winds gusting up to 35 miles per hour. We have temperatures that are much above average and we have dry air with those relative humidity values pretty low. 
 
Plus, we already have a ground conditions are already dry, burn scars where we've had the biggest fire in Texas history over the last couple of days burning over a million acres of land. 
 <br>[05:25:10]
 
Here's a look at these temperatures, I mean soaring into the 70s and 80s are good 10 to 15 degrees above average. So again, those dew point values that are so low with the temperature is so high that's making that air just incredibly dry.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: And people in the Texas Panhandle are paying close attention to those dry conditions and high winds. At least two people have died in the wildfires so far, hundreds of structures have been destroyed. There are actually a number of wildfires burning in the Texas Panhandle. The largest Smokehouse Creek Fire has scorched more than 1 million acres in Texas and more than 30,000 acres and neighboring Oklahoma. Utility officials say they'll need to rebuild more than 100 miles of powerlines. 
 
CNN's Camila Bernal is in Fritch, Texas as residents there trying to pick up the pieces.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's been windy, it is hot, a lot hotter than it's been over the last couple of days, and it's dry. Conditions that are making it extremely difficult for firefighters in this area that are still battling the largest wildfire in Texas history. Containment is still very low. 
 
So there's a lot of work to be done. And in the meantime, you have that grieving process beginning for a lot of the families that have lost everything, the cleanup process, like you're seeing here behind me at the Johnson house. And it's been difficult to do that cleanup because the winds have been so high. But nonetheless, you're seeing them right now as they're trying to sift through that debris trying to look for any jewelry, anything they can find of what was left of their home, the home that they've built for 20 years. 
 
I want you to listen to what Ronnie Johnson told me when he first got here to his home after the fire.
 
RONNIE JOHNSON, LOST HOME IN FIRE: We came back about 10:30 that night. We kind of snuck through some branches to drive up here and see it gone. This was -- that was pretty tough. 
 
BERNAL: And you can hear the emotion. It's been so difficult for members of this community. It's also had a huge impact on the cattle industry here because 85% of the state's cattle is raised here in the Panhandle. And so a lot of these ranchers are also having to start from zero and have shared their struggle both emotionally and financially. They know it's going to take a long time to get back to where they were before those fires. Camila Bernal, CNN Fritch, Texas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: The U.S. has conducted its first airdrop of aid into Gaza and President Biden's vowing to get even more aid delivered. We have a live report from Washington next on "CNN Newsroom." 
 
Plus, President's reading a book that offers advice on transforming tough conflicts. We'll have my conversation with the author and much more after the break. Please stay with us. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:31:16]
 
BRUNHUBER: Welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom." 
 
An update now on the U.S. efforts to get more aid into Gaza and the work toward a ceasefire agreement. On Saturday, three Americans C-130s dropped 66 bundles of food over Gaza. President Biden posted on social media that he'll, quote, "continue to pull out every stop to get more aid to Gaza." 
 
On Monday, Vice President Kamala Harris plans to meet with Israeli War Cabinet Minister Benny Gantz in Washington. That comes as a U.S. official tells CNN that Israel has, quote, "basically accepted a six- week ceasefire and hostage release proposal." 
 
CNN White House Reporter Camila DeChalus joins us live in Washington with more. Camila, plenty of criticism over the airdrops accusations that the U.S. should be doing more than just a drop in the bucket. What's the latest there?  
 
CAMILA DECHALUS, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, that's right, the White House Senior Administration Officials held a call with reporters yesterday. And one of the things that they really emphasize was that, this was not going just to be a one and done deal. These air drops that they're going to continue to strategize, and they're going into continue planning to conduct additional airdrops in the future. 
 
Now, at this point in time, we don't have an exact date of when these additional airdrops will likely be conducted. But we do know that they're going to come in the upcoming weeks. And the White House has really just emphasized that they know how dire the situation is at hand and Gaza. And they really want to make sure that they are assisting and they're allowing other neighboring countries to help coordinate with them to give and provide the necessary aid to the people in Gaza.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, so in another angle on the story that we're following Camila, the Vice President meeting with the War Cabinet, Monday, what are we expecting to come out of that?
 
DECHALUS: Well, White House officials tell us at this time that we can expect that the Vice President Kamala Harris will talk about the potential of a temporary ceasefire. And the White House has really pushed that a temporary ceasefire would allow more humanitarian aid to go into the region. 
 
We're also being told that during this meeting, they're going to be talking about how the U.S. is going to be providing more assistance to ensure that they are willing to really provide more airdrops to give that temporary assistance and relief to the people in Gaza. And just really emphasizing how there should be a reduction in the visual civilian casualties in Gaza while Israel and the Hamas conflict just continues. So these are some of the things that are top of mind of the Vice President. And they really just want to push for it as she meets with Israeli War Cabinet Official. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, appreciate the update. Camila DeChalus, thank you so much. 
 
President Biden is at Camp David this weekend with a full agenda, we'll be focusing on a possible ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas. And he's working the upcoming State of the Union address set for next Thursday. 
 
Now, he brought some reading material that might help him. On Friday, Biden was seen leaving the White House with a book called, "Possible: How We Survive (And Thrive) in an Age of Conflict." Now, it's described as a book on how to, quote, "break through the toughest conflicts." 
 
And joining me now is the author of that book, William Ury. He served as a consultant to the White House during the Cold War to reduce the risk of accidental nuclear war with the Soviet Union and more recently worked with Colombia's government to bring an end to the civil war there. William Ury is also the co-founder of the Harvard Program on Negotiation. 
 
Thanks so much for being here with us. So, you know, just to start describe your thoughts when you saw the President was heading off with the copy of your book. I mean, I guess it can't hurt to get a plug from the Oval Office?
 <br>[05:35:05]
 
WILLIAM URY, AUTHOR: That's true, Kim. To tell you the truth I was speechless. I didn't quite, you know, I was rubbing my eyes. And then I felt really humbled. And then I felt delighted because the reason why I wrote "Possible" was to try and pass on what I've learned over 45 years working in some of the world's toughest conflicts about how you take impossible situations and make them more possible.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, speaking of impossible situations, I presume the President's reading this in the context of trying to negotiate the, you know, simple matter of peace in the Middle East. So what advice would you give him specifically on that trying to get a deal here for a ceasefire in exchange for hostages?
 
URY: Well, I believe actually, the pieces are in place right now. And it's just -- it's this kind of question, that the most important thing, I think, for a long-term piece of the Middle East is, we've got to reframe the basic question from who's winning and who's losing, which in the end, everybody loses, and you can win a battle, but everybody loses the war, as we know, in the long-term. To reframe that question to, how can two peoples live side by side, in security, in dignity, in peace. And that's not going to be easy. And it's going to take a lot of help from the international community, including President Biden, to build a winning coalition for a peaceful resolution. BRUNHUBER: Yeah, I mean, it's, you know, so many people have tried
 
 specifically, how do you handle negotiations when people are arguing over an emotional issue with entrenched ideologies, whether it's the Middle East or Ukraine, when you're in a conflict with a -- with a hated historical enemy, when the parties themselves may not be sort of taking rational positions, or even ones that are in their own self- interest? And when there's so much blood spilt on both sides?
 
URY: Well, I've been in those situations. And you know, oddly enough, the simplest thing is to begin by listening. Listening, really putting yourself in the shoes of the other, not just listening to refute the other's points. But if you can listen to someone, what I find is, their nervous system starts to relax, they feel seen, they feel heard. And it may take a lot of listening. But in my experience negotiation, even though it's seems to be about talking, it's described as talks, it's actually much more about listening.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, and not a lot of listening going on in domestic politics these days. So I'm wondering how, you know, President Biden would -- would use this, in that context. I mean, many people voted for him sort of as a centrist. Because the hope was, he had a history and a track record as a negotiator and could maybe make inroads across the partisan divide. So how do you negotiate when the folks on the other side have immense pressure not to be seen as compromising. Any deal, you know, is seen as a product of the swamp, and especially in an election year like this, you'll know in which the -- the other side explicitly has stated that they don't want to hand the President a win. 
 
So let's look specifically at immigration. We saw, you know, both sides trying to get a deal. So if you were, you know, at the table in Congress, both sides agree there's a problem. There's a bipartisan deal on the table here, but the hardliners won't budge, because they're urged by the guy who essentially runs the party not to make a deal. So how do you -- how do you get through that?
 
URY: It's really hard, you know, in any negotiation like that. There's a blocking coalition that's blocking the possible agreement. And then there's his winning coalition. And the question is, can you learn, a few people from the blocking coalition, either abstaining, or to coming into the winning coalition, and even in Congress, there are those possibilities to figure that out. 
 
The other thing to think about is, negotiation isn't just about trying to get the other side to agree. They have to go to their constituency, and you say, their constituency might accuse them of looking weak or giving in. And so some of the negotiation is the theater of each side, reaching a deal but kind of working with each other to allow each side to look good to their perspective constituencies. That's the challenge. 
 
BRUNHUBER: So you talk about this being the age of conflict, so hopefully, you know, some of those solutions will -- will percolate through. We certainly need them. William Ury, thank you so much for speaking with us. Really appreciate it. 
 
URY: My pleasure, Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, when we come back, thousands of South Korean doctors are demanding more pay and better working conditions but the government is demanding they get back to work. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:42:38]
 
BRUNHUBER: South Korean doctors are marching in the country's capitol today. Those doctors say they're overworked and underpaid and the government's plans to increase medical school admissions won't solve those problems. Meaning South Korean doctors have been on strike for more than a week disrupting major hospitals and forcing health care centers and emergency rooms to turn away patients. 
 
Manisha Tank joins me now from Singapore. So Manisha, take us through what's behind this and what effect it's having?
 
MANISHA TANK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, to give you a little bit of context, South Korea faces one of the fastest, most rapidly ageing populations in the developed world. And that is a problem for government as it looks ahead. The government projects a 15,000-doctor shortfall by 2035 to cope with that aging population. 
 
It also has another problem that it has healthcare concentrated in the main areas, the main cities and not in the rural and regional parts of the country. And so it is trying to address all of these changes. 
 
Now there have been some calls for an overhaul in the insurance, the insurance framework around medical provision. And as our team on the ground have been hearing today, some doctors are saying that is an issue that the government is avoiding. So what the government has proposed is something you've alluded to, it is adding more doctors to the role to get more trainees coming through the system. 
 
In fact, 2000 trainees in 2025. And what the doctors are telling us is, well, that's all very well but the system is broken in other ways. And just adding 2000 students isn't going to fix it. Here's one we spoke to you earlier.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOON BYUNG-KI, ENT DOCTOR: We need more doctor. We're not arguing with that. It's just that, like I said, it's 2,000, 2K Number is a problem right at once. No nurses, no PAs. Those are the problem. We're not arguing with the -- we're not arguing with increasing the numbers.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TANK: So what they're saying is even if you have more doctors if those doctors then gravitate away from essential services, which is slightly lower paid to the ones that are more lucrative like plastic surgery or dermatology, you still haven't overhauled the system. You've made it, you've made it a system in which that can happen. But the government is taking a very hard line on this. It has its
 
 targets. This is also an election year. It needs to get this right. There is a bill for reform that is passing through parliament has already been blocked by the opposition party. So this issue continues to be a very hot potato. 
 <br>[05:45:10]
 
In the meantime, a number of doctors are still striking. They've been told that if they don't report for work on Monday, that they could see their licenses revoked, their staffing shortages, of course, are having an impact on the wider population. Some patients are being turned away from hospitals. And the government has said it will lean into the military if it has to, to military hospitals and military doctors to help support if necessary. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, story we'll be following. Manisha Tank in Singapore, thank you so much. 
 
The mother of late Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny visiting her son's grave on Saturday. She was accompanied by the mother of Navalny's widow, Yuliya Navalnaya. Now, their visit comes as hundreds of mourners brave long lines, for fear of arrest for a second day to pay their respects to the dissident who was laid to rest on Friday. Some say they came up because they wanted to honor the legacy of the Kremlin's most outspoken critic. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I've decided to come because I want to honor the memory of the man who has become a symbol of perseverance for me. And after what's happened, there's a feeling of a very deep sorrow. But as horrible as it may sound, it is so pleasant to see how many people came here. And this makes me feel some kind of communion.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Navalny died in Arctic Prison last month, sparking accusations from his supporters that he had been murdered, the Kremlin has denied any involvement in his death. 
 
Germany wants to know how a secret conversation among several top military officers ended up leaked online. They were discussing a possible transfer of the long-range taurus missiles to Ukraine and their possible use to hit the strategic Kerch bridge linking Russia and Crimea. 
 
Now, the conversation was posted online by the head of Russia's state broadcaster. This was the reaction from German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, GERMAN CHANCELLOR (through translator): What has been reported there is a very serious matter and therefore this will be investigated very carefully, very intensively and very quickly. That's necessary.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Member of the opposition CDU party says more conversations may have also been intercepted and could be leaked later. 
 
All right, still ahead here on "CNN Newsroom" Caitlin Clark is expected to make basketball history just hours from now. CNN's Sports Coy Wire joins me next to see how she's about to pass the legendary Pistol Pete to become the highest scoring college star of all-time male or female. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:51:29]
 
BRUNHUBER: Words can no longer describe LeBron James and all of his accomplishments on the basketball court. So while we won't even try that's why we have Coy Wire around. Coy, last night LeBron became the founding member of the NBA's 40,000 career point club?
 
COY WIRE, CNN WORLD SPORT: Incredible 21 seasons, unfathomable really, Kim. And for perspective if a rookie coming in score 24 points in every regular season game for 20 years straight not missing any games, they still wouldn't score 40,000 points. LeBron's been that good for that long. James entering the night nine shy of the mark, dressed to the 9s for the occasion. It wasn't a matter of if but when. And the when came early in the second against the Nuggets with a pretty spin move and smoothly up. His family there to see it, embracing the moment. LeBron plan to the crowd who gave him several standing ovations. LeBron finishing with 26 on the night although the Lakers loss to the Nuggets, LeBron still embrace the moment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEBRON JAMES, LOS ANGELES LAKERS FORWARD: Being the first player to do something, it's pretty cool in this league, just knowing the history, the greats that's come through the league, and then you see some of the greats on the floor tonight, it was great to compete in person, so. But for me, the main thing is always the main thing, and that's to win. I just hate that, you know, it had to happen in a defeat, especially versus a team that, you know, plays extremely well basketball. And we played some good basketball tonight but wasn't able to close it out. So, bittersweet. But I enjoyed every moment tonight though out on the floor.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: All right, you've heard, Kim, mentioned it before the break. We may see college basketball all-time points record fall just hours from. Now fresh off announcing she's leaving from the WNBA this summer. University of Iowa superstar Caitlin Clark needs just 18 points today against Ohio State to pass Pete Maravich's NCAA all-time scoring record of 3667 points. Clark's averaging 32 points per game this season. So she's more than capable. Average ticket price is $571. That's the most expensive ticket for any
 
 women's basketball game ever, college or pro according to TickPick. It's also senior day in Iowa City, which means this will be her last regular season game in front of home fans. She'd love to thank them by knocking off the number two team in the nation, Ohio State today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAITLIN CLARK, IOWA HAWKEYES GUARD: I'm very lucky to be in this position and for people to be so invested in what I'm going to do and a fan base that cares so much about it. And obviously I'm very thankful for the support. 
 
You know, it's bittersweet, like, this is -- I'm lucky that we do senior day after the game is over. I think that's very important. But like my main goal is beating Ohio State, like, I think we're all just super excited for another opportunity out there. Obviously my focus is here. You know, my goal is to win a national title that's plain and simple. That's what I want to do. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE. Finally, the next generation of NFL hopefuls showing their skills this weekend at the NFL Combine. Former Texas wide receivers Xavier Worthy, breaking the 40-yard dash record by running a 4.21 seconds. If your favorite NFL team needs a Lamborghini to throw to, he might be your guy. And this is not the battlefield scene from Braveheart or something like that. This is former Notre Dame quarterback Sam Hartman going viral for his 40-yard dash not because he ran a 4.8 but because of these luscious locks. Look at this, Kim, kind of makes us reminisce about the good old days. We can only wish, I can see it, I can envision it. Who did this. You're in trouble, Kim, with this.
 
BRUNHUBER: That is Awesome. I can imagine that my -- you know, high top fade flapping in the wind there. I don't know if it would have the same effect but I think this picture is going to haunt my -- my nightmares for quite some time.
 <br>[05:55:10]
 
WIRE: Yeah, let's not show this to my wife either. I don't want her getting any ideas. He could have run a faster 40, how do you save those locks away. There's some drag in all those that salad up there.
 
BRUNHUBER: That is so funny. Is that, like, I don't even know how we do that. I think -- 
 
WIRE: I don't know who did this but I will find out. 
 
BRUNHUBER: That is too funny.
 
WIRE: And then I'm going to have them do to you too because that's pretty good.
 
BRUNHUBER: But I do want to -- I do want to challenge you to put up a picture on Twitter of you with hair. We'll see who has the -- who had the better do back in the day.
 
WIRE: So we're -- this is we're both doing this. You're doing it too. 
 
BRUNHUBER: I'll do too.
 
WIRE: OK. Yeah, I can't wait. It's all right.
 
BRUNHUBER: We'll leave it there. Coy Wire, thank you so much. 
 
WIRE: Thanks. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. And before we go Saturday Night Lives weekend update roasted foreign President Trump's trip to the border earlier this week. Have a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My favorite part of the visit was when Trump who looks good behind bars by the way, finally came face to face with his sworn enemies, the migrants and he had a pretty harsh message for them take a look.
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: They like Trump, could you believe it? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, I can't believe it. The migrants don't like you. They just walked 1000 miles to get to the edge of this river and they're probably thinking is that weirdo and a Trump costume waving us into the country?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Weekend Update's co-hosts Michael Che went on to joke about Mitch McConnell stepping aside as Senate Republican Leader post Colin Jost cracked the joke saying, quote, "He'll be replaced by the current number two Republican in the Senate a frozen embryo holding an assault rifle." And he delivered it better, though, I'm pretty sure. 
 
All right, so I'm Kim Brunhuber. Thank you so much for joining me. For viewers in North America, "CNN This Morning" is next. The rest of the world, it's "Connecting Africa."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)