Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Israel Marks One Year Since Hamas Terror Attacks; Israel Remembers Victims of Hamas Attacks; Hostage Families Hold Their Own Ceremony; About 100 Hostages Remain Captive in Gaza; Six Thais Still Held Captive; Florida Braces for Hurricane Milton; Monster Storm Hilton; Trump Spreads Lies About Response to Hurricane Helene; Biden, Harris, and Trump Participate in Memorial Events; Anera Helping to Ease Suffering in the Middle East; Bitcoin's Biggest Mystery; Who is Bitcoin's Creator?. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 07, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  -- Twitter and on the TikTok, @jaketapper. You can follow the show on X, @TheLeadCNN. If you ever miss an episode of The 
 
 Lead, you can listen to the show whence you get your podcast. All two hours, just sitting there waiting for you to listen. The news continues on 
 
 CNN with Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR:  Happening now breaking news a monster category - - 
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR:  It is 6:00 a.m. in Shanghai, 9:00 a.m. in Sydney, and 6:00 p.m. here in Atlanta. I'm Lynda Kinkade, in for Julia 
 
 Chatterley. And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
A warm welcome to "First Move." Here is today's need to know. Emotional ceremonies. Israel marks one year since the Hamas terror attacks. And its 
 
 military operations continue in Gaza, the West Bank, and Lebanon. You failed. Families of hostages hold their own ceremony in protest against the 
 
 Israeli government. Evacuate now. Florida residents in the path of Category 5 Hurricane Milton are ordered to leave. It comes as the cleanup from 
 
 Hurricane Helene has barely begun. Plus, the Satoshi suspects. A new documentary drills down on the mystery creator of Bitcoin. All that and 
 
 much more coming up.
 
But first, a somber day in Israel on the first anniversary of the October 7th attacks. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited a monument to the 
 
 victims in Jerusalem. Some 1,200 people were killed. Gaza officials say Israel's military response has killed 41,000 people. And Israel has entered 
 
 into a new war with Hezbollah in Lebanon. It comes as critics accuse the government of not doing enough to save the 100 hostages still held by 
 
 Hamas.
 
This was the scene in Jerusalem earlier, families of Israeli hostages literally sounding the alarm outside Mr. Netanyahu's residence. They're 
 
 urging authorities to bring their loved ones home.
 
And the violence is continuing tonight. A short while ago, the Israeli military said five projectiles have been launched from Lebanon into Israel. 
 
 Our Erin Burnett is in Tel Aviv and she joins us now live. Good to have you with us, Erin.
 
So, as Israel marked the one-year anniversary of the Hamas terror attacks, it was under the blare of the air raid sirens once again. Hezbollah 
 
 launching a new round of missiles and rockets. What more can you tell us?
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN ANCHOR, ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT:  Well, Lynda, you know, where we were, actually, we were on live television when it happened, 
 
 myself and our colleague, Nic Robertson, we started to see the interceptors go up from the David Sling, which is the interceptors that the Israeli used 
 
 for missile defense for some of the ballistic missiles that come in, longer-range missiles. Those missiles were coming from Hezbollah in 
 
 Lebanon. There were about five of them, very close to where we are.
 
And, in fact, this perhaps the busiest day for missile attacks on Tel Aviv from all fronts that we've seen since this war began because you had 
 
 missiles coming today, three different times with sirens. We had them coming from Hamas in Gaza and then, as I mentioned, those ballistic 
 
 missiles coming from Hezbollah in the north and then also from the east, missiles -- ballistic missiles coming from the Houthis in Yemen, at one 
 
 point Lynda, the entire City of Tel Aviv was lit up in alerts for a possible incoming missile.
 
So, that tension laid on top of what was such a somber day of grief here, where families, as you said, were grieving. And, of course, you mentioned 
 
 those 97. Now, 97 hostages who were taken a year ago who are still in Gaza, some of them are dead, many of them are alive. So, close to families, it's 
 
 almost as if they can touch them from a distance of 40 miles or so, and yet, they have no idea, even tonight, if they are dead or alive.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, it really is horrific. One year on, still so many answers. And of course, as you were mentioning, the frontlines have expanded in 
 
 every direction right now. But of course, we're thinking about the families staying, the friends who pay tribute to those who lost their lives, but 
 
 also those who still haven't come home. Just talk to us more about the feeling there today.
 
BURNETT:  Yes. So, we went tonight, Lynda, to Hostage Square, which is, you know, a place of memoriam. There's actually a tunnel that has been 
 
 constructed there with audio of gunshots and stomping boots, and you go in, you know it's an installation, but it is -- you can feel how constrictive 
 
 it is, just sort of a moment of touching an unbelievable horror that is being experienced now for a full year for many who perhaps have not even 
 
 seen the light, an incomprehensible thing.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
And families, they were gathering. There was a formal memorial there tonight. We were with more than 2,000 people. I'd say perhaps it could have 
 
 been 3,000 people gathering. So many tears, so much mourning by family and friends. And where we were, members of the Israeli public who showed up, 
 
 you know, there were going to be, Lynda, 40,000 people who were scheduled to attend, but because Israel is obviously imminently about to strike Iran 
 
 under attack, the rules were changed and they were only allowed to have a few thousand people come.
 
But even so, you could feel, it was a palpable feeling of grief and frustration and also, of course, outrage that there are still these 
 
 hostages in Gaza as this war has expanded now to Lebanon and Hezbollah and to Iran as well.
 
KINKADE:  Erin Burnett, we appreciate you being there for us in Tel Aviv on the one-year anniversary of the Hamas terror attacks. Thanks so much. We 
 
 will be tuning into your show later tonight.
 
BURNETT:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, the past year has been agony for the families of hostages inside Gaza. Carmel Gat was slated to be released as part of a deal Israel 
 
 and Hamas had in early July, according to two Israeli officials. Tragically, though, Gat was killed by Hamas before that deal could happen.
 
Carmel Gat's cousin, LeElle Slifer, joins us now from Dallas, Texas. Thanks so much for being with us, and I'm so sorry for your loss.
 
LEELLE SLIFER, COUSIN OF MURDERED HOSTAGE CARMEL GAT:  Thank you so much and thank you for having me.
 
KINKADE:  I'm wondering how you're feeling today. This is one year since the Hamas terror attack, but a month since the body of her cousin was 
 
 recovered. How are you doing?
 
SLIFER:  It's been a roller coaster of emotions. The October 7th itself was very hard and the entire -- every day after that, it was just very 
 
 difficult. We discovered new things day by day. We discovered that Carmel's mother had been killed on October 7th, her sister-in-law had been taken 
 
 hostage, but then was released in November. And then it sort of -- we held out hope for so long with Carmel, only for her to be murdered just a few 
 
 weeks ago. So, it's been a roller coaster of emotions the last year.
 
KINKADE:  And she, of course, was just 40 years old. You grew up together as cousins, spent a lot of time together. What do you want people to know 
 
 about your cousin?
 
SLIFER:  She was just a wonderful person. She loved to travel. She loved to see the world. She was so amazing and gracious and peace loving. She was 
 
 kept with some teenagers at the beginning of this war. And those teenagers were released in November and they told us that Carmel was doing yoga with 
 
 them and meditation with them to help keep them grounded. And they said they wouldn't have got through that time without her and they called her 
 
 their guardian angel.
 
And so, I just want the world to remember that the people who are there are amazing, peaceful, loving civilians who do not deserve this at all.
 
KINKADE:  Not at all. And we understand around a hundred hostages are still in Gaza. From the families you're speaking to, what are they telling you, 
 
 those who still have loved ones being held captive?
 
SLIFER:  They are clinging to hope, they're clinging to hope that a deal can get done and bring everyone home. We got a deal done almost a year ago 
 
 last November, and we got out so many hostages and we're hoping that we can get another deal to bring everyone else home. I mean, there's a one-year-
 
 old baby being held hostage in Gaza, children, elderly, innocent young women. We need to get them out.
 
KINKADE:  Absolutely. And I understand the Israeli prime minister wanted to meet with you and you declined. Has he failed you and your family?
 
SLIFER:  So, there are several people in our extended family, everyone has different feelings about the government. I don't speak for anyone else in 
 
 my family. I can only speak for myself. I would not have declined meeting personally with the prime minister, but I understand those who would. It's 
 
 a very -- it's very difficult to deal with the grief in your family and everyone experiences grief in different ways, but then to also deal with 
 
 the current political climate and disagreements among family members. I'm sure everyone can understand that. That layered on top of all of this 
 
 sadness and horror is a very difficult load to bear right now.
 
KINKADE:  It really is. The LeElle Slifer, we appreciate your time today and again, so sorry for your loss.
 
SLIFER:  Thank you so much. We appreciate it.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
KINKADE:  Well, the anguish of what happened on October 7th is being felt far away from Israel. Thailand's foreign minister says Hamas gunmen killed 
 
 41 Thai citizens in the attacks. Six Thai nationals are still believed to be held captive in Gaza. Many of the victims were working on Israeli farms. 
 
 The father of one of the hostages says he prays that his son will return one day, but says the waiting and the lack of information is taking a toll.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TOM SRIAOUN, THAI HOSTAGE'S FATHER (through translator):  If you ask how I feel, I feel so heavy. I've been to the hospital two or three times because 
 
 of my son being taken. My blood pressure was high and I had to be admitted to the hospital a few times. I can't stop thinking about it. Since the 
 
 incident in Israel until today, I still think about my son all the time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Thailand's prime minister says she has held talks with Iran's president to get help releasing the remaining hostages.
 
And as Israel marks the anniversary of the October 7th attacks, the war in the Middle East is spreading. Sirens sounded in Tel Aviv earlier after 
 
 Hezbollah fired several projectiles into Israel. Israel's bombardment of Beirut continues, and the Israeli military called on residents of several 
 
 suburbs to evacuate. Israel has also warned people to avoid Lebanon's coastline and said it would start targeting Hezbollah there. Well, in Gaza, 
 
 there are reports that at least 11 people were killed in airstrikes across the Gaza Strip.
 
Well, Jomana Karadsheh joins us now live from Beirut. Good to have you with us, Jomana. So, on the anniversary of the Hamas terror attack, Israel is 
 
 defending against projectiles from Hezbollah and certainly, firing back into Lebanon, hitting targets, it says, were in Southern Beirut. What more 
 
 can you tell us?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Lynda, the Israeli military has been hitting targets inside Lebanon for a couple of weeks now. We have seen 
 
 some of the most intense bombardments since this war began here in the southern suburbs over the weekend.
 
And also, tonight, a short time ago, there were several strikes that hit the southern suburbs as well as earlier in the day. Now, some of these 
 
 strikes this evening happened with prior warning, telling people to evacuate certain neighborhoods where they said that they're about to strike 
 
 Hezbollah targets. But for most of the day, those airstrikes happened without any warning for civilians.
 
Now, look, for the most part, a lot of people have already left the southern suburbs. We've seen this sort of mass exodus from one of the most 
 
 heavily populated parts of the capital in recent days. But there are some civilians who remain there, who remain in their homes. And, you know, 
 
 sometimes they get warnings and sometimes they don't. And some of these airstrikes that we have seen over the past couple of days have been quite 
 
 significant. Some of them triggering secondary explosions.
 
And while you have this going on, Lynda, you also have the situation that is unfolding in the south. You've got a catastrophic humanitarian situation 
 
 by all accounts, from what we're hearing. You've got intense Israeli bombardment that is taking place around the border region and beyond. And 
 
 today, we had more evacuation orders from the Israeli military asking the residents of a number of other villages to evacuate. They -- this brings 
 
 the number to more than 117 villages that have been ordered to evacuate in recent days.
 
And you know, the IDF's Arabic language spokesperson also posting on X, telling all those who've already evacuated their homes, those hundreds of 
 
 thousands of residents of these southern towns and villages, not to return until they tell them to do so.
 
And in addition to that, this evening, another warning that you just mentioned, coming from the IDF, to basically a warning for, they said, 
 
 fishermen, beachgoers, anyone on a boat along Lebanon's Mediterranean coastline here, that's pretty much a third of Lebanon's coastline that they 
 
 have ordered people to avoid.
 
And you don't necessarily find beachgoers right now considering the situation in the country, but fishermen, that's the livelihood for a lot of 
 
 people. And they've said that they're going to start essentially attacking Hezbollah using their coastline.
 
But all of this, Lynda, does really raise questions for people here in this country of what the Israeli military's plans are for Southern Lebanon as we 
 
 are seeing these evacuation orders, as we are seeing these limited incursions, as sources have told us, these sporadic raids across the 
 
 border, this moving of people away from much of the border region and Southern Lebanon.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
And now, again, this latest warning really raising questions and fears among so many who've had to leave their homes about whether they'll ever be 
 
 able to return to those homes.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, exactly. Jomana Karadsheh, good to have you there for us. Thanks so much.
 
We're going to take a quick break, but straight ahead, Milton's march. The powerful hurricane now a powerful Category 5 storm heading straight for 
 
 Florida.
 
Plus, disinformation after the disaster. The lies and conspiracy theories after Hurricane Helene made landfall, Why the election year is partly to 
 
 blame.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. I'm Lynda Kinkade. A rough start to the trading week on Wall Street tops today's Money Move. All the major averages 
 
 finished the session sharply low with the NASDAQ hardest hit. It fell well over 1 percent. Stocks were pressured by rising bond yields and higher oil 
 
 prices.
 
And a busy week ahead on Wall Street. New U.S. consumer inflation numbers are set to be released Thursday, and third quarter earnings season 
 
 officially gets underway.
 
In Asia, solid gains for stocks in Japan, Hong Kong, and South Korea. The Shanghai Composite remained closed for a holiday.
 
Well, turning now to Southern United States, where another massive storm is on the horizon. Hurricane Milton is set to make landfall on Wednesday in 
 
 Florida, in areas which are just starting to recover from Helene. It is continuing to strengthen and is now the strongest storm to occur anywhere 
 
 on the planet this year. Here's Brian Todd with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In Pinellas Park, Florida, just across the bay from Tampa, residents use large pails to fill as many 
 
 sandbags as they can.
 
Hurricane Milton, which has already exploded into a Category 5 storm, could hit the Tampa Bay area directly. It would be the first major hurricane to 
 
 strike within 50 miles of Tampa in more than 100 years. Some residents in at least six counties told to evacuate. In Hillsborough County, the 
 
 evacuation order is mandatory in some places. That means authorities cannot force people from their homes. But --
 
CHIEF JASON DOCKERY, HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY FIRE RESCUE:  If you remain there, you could die. My men and women could die trying to rescue you.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
TODD (voice-over):  What makes this especially dangerous in places like Tampa and Fort Myers is that those cities are still recovering from 
 
 Hurricane Helene, which has killed more than 230 people in six states, with the death toll still rising. For those in the mandatory evacuation zones 
 
 who decide to stay put, Florida officials have a dire warning.
 
ASHLEY MOODY, FLORIDA ATTORNEY GENERAL:  You probably need to write your name and permanent marker on your arm. So, that people know who you are 
 
 when they get to you afterwards. And we are still seeing, as we're uncovering folks on the beach who thought they could stay there and the 
 
 storm surge got them.
 
TODD (voice-over):  With Milton forecast to make landfall late Wednesday, Governor Ron DeSantis warns the window for evacuation is closing fast.
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL):  You have time to execute your plan, but you got to do it now. Time is going to start running out very, very soon.
 
TODD (voice-over):  Helene made landfall as a Category 4 hurricane that caused widespread damage, leaving tons of debris that still hasn't been 
 
 cleared. Debris that residents worry could still harm people if it starts flying around when Milton hits.
 
KARMEN FORRESTER, BARTENDER:  The debris on the beach and whatever's going on is a little cause for concern because there is not enough time and not 
 
 enough manpower to take everything and put it where it needs to be off the island.
 
TODD (voice-over):  The international airports in Tampa and Orlando closing ahead of the storm. Tolls are being suspended on major highways throughout 
 
 western and Central Florida to help those evacuating. Governor DeSantis says the assets that Florida lent to North Carolina for Hurricane Helene 
 
 have had to be brought back to Florida.
 
But North Carolina is still dealing with the horrific aftermath of Helene. More than 100,000 customers are still without power there and around 
 
 Asheville, dozens of people are still missing a week and a half after Helene tore through the area.
 
GOV. ROY COOPER (D-NC):  We're still working to reach communities. We still have search and rescue occurring as we speak.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Milton is now a Category 5 hurricane. And National Weather Service warning it could be the worst storm to hit the Tampa area in more 
 
 than 100 years. Well, for more on this, I'm joined by Chad Myers. Chad, good to have you with us. So, the second major hurricane in as many weeks, 
 
 again, headed for Florida.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes, and just to go back to that 102 years from the last major hurricane, think about how many people didn't live 
 
 there 102 years ago. I mean, millions of people didn't live there because this just became a popular place not that long ago.
 
This storm right now, Lynda, is 180 miles per hour. I can do the calculations, that's 290 kilometers per hour, the strongest storm so far 
 
 this year in any ocean on the planet. We don't know exactly what the storm is doing right now, but we will. The last hurricane hunter aircraft took 
 
 off and left there about two or three hours ago, but a new plane is on the way.
 
Can you imagine trying to fly in a C-130 propeller airplane through the middle of a hurricane that's 180 miles per hour? All I got is no thank you. 
 
 So -- but these men and women out there, they do it for us. They do it to keep us safe.
 
This storm went from 50 miles per hour to 175 miles per hour in less than 48 hours. Rapid intensification. And it will make landfall on the west 
 
 coast of Florida. We're not going to miss this. This is going to be a big deal. We're going to get a five-meter storm surge. We're going to have 
 
 winds of 110 miles per hour, well in excess of 160 kilometers per hour. Well, inland, not just along the coast. This has got enough momentum that 
 
 it's going to take the hurricane winds all the way across the state.
 
And then, when you talk about 10 to 15 feet, we talk about, you know, four to five meters of storm surge, that's a lot considering we just had a 
 
 record surge with the storm that we were just talking about there on that last package and that record surge was six to seven feet. Now, we're 
 
 talking 10 to 15. So, people that just got wet are going to be over the top of their house. We're going to lose people or at least lose homes if we 
 
 don't get the people out of the way along this west coast of Florida. And there's your 102-year-old storm.
 
Right now, we do know where it's going, or at least most of the models do. It's going to be very close right to that worst case scenario for Tampa, 
 
 pushing all of that water into that Tampa Bay area across the islands there, the beautiful barrier islands, from Dunedin all the way down toward 
 
 Anna Maria, possibly towards Sarasota.
 
And if you talk about the land, the beach, it's about five feet above sea level, two meters above sea level. All of a sudden, you're going to get a 
 
 wave or waves that's going to go over this thing by another three meters. There's not going to be a lot left. There's not going to be any place for 
 
 people to be. That's why they're telling everyone there, at least on this zone one and two, or A and B as we call it, they need to leave and leave 
 
 now.
 
Good news is with this is that this did not rapidly intensify and then, 24 hours or 12 hours later make landfall. This rapidly intensified two days 
 
 ahead. That's why the governor is saying you still have time to go if you need to go.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
And it's going to be a lot of rain, whether it's going to be a flooding, whether it's freshwater or saltwater, this is a major event. This is the 
 
 biggest hurricane to hit Florida I think in my generation, without a doubt. And Andrew was a big storm and Michael was a big storm, but this is going 
 
 to do many, many billions of dollars more damage than either of those storms. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Wow. I really hope people heed that warning and evacuate now. Chad Myers, thanks so much for that update.
 
MYERS:  You're welcome. Yes.
 
KINKADE:  Well, misinformation about Hurricane Helena is complicating recovery efforts. It's become such a problem that officials in North 
 
 Carolina are urging people to be aware of A.I. generated images and to question where they're getting their information. The lies gaining the most 
 
 traction concern the federal government's response just weeks ahead of a presidential election.
 
Well, I want to bring in Brian Stelter for more on this. Brian, good to see you. So, the misinformation in the wake of this hurricane is really quite 
 
 alarming and quite frankly, sad. Just take us -- give us a fact check. Take us through these false claims.
 
BRIAN STELTER, CNN CHIEF MEDIA ANALYST:  It's one of the worst examples I've seen of disinformation having real world harm, because local officials 
 
 in North Carolina and other states have had to play whack-a-mole trying to deny these praised rumors when they're actually busy with the real recovery 
 
 response.
 
Here's an example of Former President Donald Trump repeating a lie about federal aid to survivors. Here's the clip.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  They send hundreds of billions of dollars to foreign nations and, you know, 
 
 what they're giving our people? 750 bucks.
 
They're offering them $750 to people whose homes have been washed away.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STELTER:  $750 is the immediate survivor aid. That's to pay, you know, for food if you're a survivor in a situation like the Helene case. And then, 
 
 FEMA provides a lot more money for people whose homes are damaged or destroyed later. You'll see a page here from the fema.gov Rumor Control 
 
 website saying, in fact, that is false, what the former president is saying.
 
But Trump is doing it for praise and political reasons to denigrate Biden and Harris and to promote his own candidacy. And we've seen many Trump 
 
 allies also repeating false claims about the federal response for those political reasons. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  And, Brian, of course, there is one ridiculous claim that the Democrats control the weather. There's also certainly a lot of A.I. 
 
 generated images that are circulating. How can people decipher what's real?
 
STELTER:  Well, I think it's getting harder than ever. You know, and that's of course why old-fashioned news organizations like CNN spend so much money 
 
 on fact checking. But when we've seen, at least in the United States, a campaign for years to tear down real news and decry it as fake, it's 
 
 created an environment where so many people have so little trust. That's particularly true among Republicans, and especially Trump supporting 
 
 Republicans.
 
We're talking about states where there are lots of Trump supporters, in this case, North Carolina -- South Carolina. And now, with Hurricane Milton 
 
 heading toward Florida, I'm seeing some of the same examples of disinformation already appearing. It's incredibly frustrating.
 
You know, for example, last week, Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, Republican congresswoman, Was on Twitter saying, yes, they can control the 
 
 weather. It's ridiculous for anyone to lie and say it can't be done. This is a narrative that's taking hold among some far-right figures that the 
 
 government can secretly steer storms.
 
Of course, the insinuation is that Democrats can hurt Republicans with secret weather generating machines. You know, there's a point at which you 
 
 can't really fact check your way out of these lies because these lies are preying on people's emotions, their beliefs, what they want to be true.
 
I kind of feel like I'm bringing facts to a gunfight and there's only so much that can be done. But at the end of the day, when you are the survivor 
 
 of a hurricane, and you see the actual response, you see the actual government response, hopefully, your eyes and ears can actually be believed 
 
 over the lies that are spreading on Facebook and X.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, exactly. It's head scratching. If only some of those people could put their efforts into helping those recovering from the hurricane -- 
 
STELTER:  Need in helping.
 
KINKADE:  -- instead of spreading these false claims. Brian Stelter, thanks so much for, joining us in New Jersey.
 
STELTER:  Thanks.
 
KINKADE:  We're going to take a quick break. Much more from "First Move" in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. I'm Lynda Kinkade with a look at more international headlines this hour on "First Move." A court in Moscow has sentenced an 
 
 American man to more than six years in prison for allegedly fighting for Ukraine. That's according to Russian state media. 72-year-old Stephen 
 
 Hubbard, who is originally from Michigan, was reportedly accused of fighting for Ukraine as a mercenary. The U.S. State Department says Russia 
 
 has denied it consular access to Hubbard without explanation.
 
The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal from hip hop star R. Kelly on Monday. Kelly is serving a 30-year prison sentence after being 
 
 convicted of federal sex crimes. Several women had testified that they had been abused as minors. And he claims the charges against him were filed 
 
 after the statute of limitations had expired. Prosecutors declined to respond.
 
The Nobel Prize in Medicine has been awarded to two Americans for their work on the discovery of microRNA. Scientists Victor Ambros and Gary Ruvkun 
 
 were announced as the winners in Sweden. Their research stretches back to the 1990s. It revealed how genes give rise to different cells in the human 
 
 body in a process known as gene regulation. The prize carries a cash award of $1 million.
 
Returning to our top story now, somber ceremonies marking the first anniversary of the October 7th attacks by Hamas in Israel. The victims were 
 
 also remembered here in the United States. President Biden held a candle lighting ceremony at the White House and promised that the U.S. will never 
 
 stop working towards a ceasefire deal in the region.
 
Also in the nation's capital, Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband planted a pomegranate tree at her official residence. The tree is a symbol 
 
 of hope in the Jewish religion. Harris saying the terrible events of one year ago must never be forgotten.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  I am devastated by the pain and loss that occurred on October 
 
 7th. And Doug and I pray for the family and loved ones of all of those who were lost, and may their memories be a blessing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Former President Trump attended a memorial in New York City. And in a radio interview, Trump said he is the candidate Jewish Americans 
 
 should trust to protect Israel.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  Nobody's done more for the Jewish people than I have. Nobody's done more for Israel as a president, maybe beyond being a president, if you want 
 
 to know the truth. Golan Heights, I moved the capital, ended the Iran nuclear deal. I should get 100 percent of the Jewish vote and I don't. It's 
 
 amazing. October 7th never would have happened if I was there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Stephen Collinson joins me now for more analysis. Stephen, good to see you. So, a year ago, the U.S. president vowed to stand by 
 
 Israel, and it has, it's provided weaponry and obviously, defended Israel against two major attacks. Yet, despite calls and efforts for a ceasefire 
 
 and to end the war, those calls seem to have fallen on deaf ears. Explain why.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  Well, I think a lot of it is due to the intractability of the issues in the region. It is true that 
 
 the administration has worked very hard to create a ceasefire deal that would get the remaining hostages released and end the fighting in Gaza, but 
 
 it has been unsuccessful in prevailing on both sides, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu and Hamas.
 
At times, it's looked a lot more like the United States has wanted an end to this war more than either of the two protagonists, Netanyahu and Hamas, 
 
 and the great fears that the Biden administration has had about this proliferating into a much bigger regional war that the United States could 
 
 get dragged into have been borne out somewhat by the extension of the war into Lebanon by Israel against Hezbollah.
 
So, there is a great deal of concern on this first anniversary, not just over what happened a year ago, but what might unfold in the next year.
 
KINKADE:  And talk to us, Stephen, about the political consequences here, because the U.S. election is a month away, and we've seen college -- campus 
 
 colleges mass protests right across the country, really, angry at the humanitarian crisis unfolding in Gaza, urging the U.S. to use its leverage 
 
 to end the war. Could that cost the Democrats some votes, especially amongst young people?
 
COLLINSON:  Well, there has been a great change in the politics of Israel in the United States over the last year. For the first time, the Israeli-
 
 Palestinian issue has become a domestic concern in American politics. In the Democratic Party especially, there have been divides and splits in the 
 
 party between progressives, young voters, as you mentioned, and some Arab American voters over the failure of the Biden administration to do more to 
 
 mitigate the humanitarian crisis in Gaza under the Israeli assault on Hamas.
 
This could have a great deal to say in the election that will take place next month. For example, Arab American voters are very important in the 
 
 critical swing State of Michigan. You're talking about a state that could help decide the election and where perhaps tens of thousands of votes will 
 
 be the difference between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump.
 
If some of those voters don't show up and vote for Harris as they would normally be expected to do, because they usually swing Democrat, that could 
 
 have a big impact on the election, who wins the state, and that is one of perhaps three or four states that could decide the election. So, you can 
 
 see how the reverberations of what happened a year ago in Israel having a real impact on American politics.
 
KINKADE:  And despite Donald Trump saying he's done more for Jewish people than any other leader when you look at the opinion polls, they clearly show 
 
 more support amongst Jewish voters for Kamala Harris. I just want to pull up this Pew research. You can see there, 65 percent of Jewish voters say 
 
 they would support Kamala Harris. That's against 34 percent for Donald Trump.
 
Trump is already saying that he'll blame Jews, essentially, if he loses. Surely that won't help win over any undecided voters.
 
COLLINSON:  No, and the former president has sometimes played into this anti-Semitic trope that American Jewish voters owe a double allegiance to 
 
 Israel and the United States. Those numbers there are almost exactly what you would expect. The Jewish community generally votes about two to one or 
 
 more for Democrats against Republicans. And it's also worth remembering that this is not a community that just votes on Israel-Palestinian Middle 
 
 East peace issues. It's a very diverse group. People vote on social issues, on economic issues, just like any other American.
 
The former president seems to think it's one monolithic vote that goes one way or the other, and that's not really been the case in U.S. elections. 
 
 And it's also worth pointing out, I think, that many American Jews who are liberal, support the Democrats do have a little bit of trouble with the 
 
 extreme rightward tilt of the most conservative and ultra-religious governing coalition in Israel's history.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
So, despite his admonitions, I don't think people think there's going to be a massive change in the way Jewish Americans vote in the upcoming election.
 
KINKADE:  No. All right. Stephen Collinson, good to get your analysis as always. Thanks so much.
 
COLLINSON:  Thanks.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still ahead, putting their lives on the line to help others. We're going to hear from aid organization Anera, whose mission is 
 
 to help ease suffering in Gaza and other areas in the Middle East. How October 7th changed everything for this group.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Aid workers trying to ease the suffering in Gaza this year have put their own safety on the line, and many 
 
 have lost their lives. The U.N. says more than 300 aid workers have been killed in Gaza since the October 7th terror attacks. And while the vast 
 
 majority of them worked for the U.N., private organizations have suffered losses too.
 
Back in April, seven people delivering food for the World's Health Organization Central Kitchen died when an Israeli drone fired upon their 
 
 convoy. And just over one month ago, the aid organization, Anera, says one of its convoys was hit by an Israeli airstrike. Four Palestinians at the 
 
 front of the convoy were killed. Anera says they were community members and not considered a threat by the group.
 
Sean Carroll is Anera's president and CEO and joins me now to discuss the perilous conditions facing aid workers in Gaza. Thanks so much for your 
 
 time.
 
SEAN CARROLL, PRESIDENT AND CEO, ANERA:  Thank you, Lynda, for having me.
 
KINKADE:  Your organization has been working with partners on the ground, not just in Gaza, but also the West Bank and now Lebanon. I just want to 
 
 start with the situation in Lebanon, which now is facing Israeli airstrikes day after day. Just explain what the greatest need is there right now.
 
CARROLL:  Well, the greatest needs to is to provide essential care for more than a million displaced. Many of them in shelters, but many of them not in 
 
 shelters. There are nearly 900 shelters, temporary shelters that have been set up, Anera is working in about 140 of them. So, far, we're distributing 
 
 bedding, mattresses, blankets, sleeping bags that are our vocational training. Participants and graduates make food and water. It's a very 
 
 precarious situation.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
It's an awful lot of people being displaced very quickly. And it's a large percentage of the population and a lot of those shelters -- most of those 
 
 shelters are not equipped to take these kinds of numbers. There are schools that don't have electricity and kitchens and heating for the winter. So, 
 
 this is a very precarious situation in Lebanon.
 
KINKADE:  And you've got multiple crises unfolding in the region. Just explain how dangerous this is for aid workers.
 
CARROLL:  Well, it's particularly dangerous in Gaza. And you mentioned two incidents. We also lost an Anera staff person on March 8th, three weeks 
 
 before the World Central Kitchen killings. And our staff feel like they're at risk every day going out to deliver aid. Mousa was killed after a day of 
 
 delivering aid as soon as he got back to his home. And there remains warfare and there remains an issue still to this day. We tried to rectify 
 
 it after the killing of our staff and those of the World Central Kitchen to get better coordination, deconfliction, and we don't feel that it's fully 
 
 there and that humanitarian workers are protected.
 
KINKADE:  And we know that even before the war in Gaza, some 80 percent of the people there were in need of humanitarian aid. What's the situation 
 
 right now in terms of how much aid is getting into Gaza?
 
CARROLL:  Well, that's right. There was a lot of aid needed before October 7th, and there was food insecurity, but not nearly at the levels we're 
 
 seeing now. I mean, the last international report on food insecurity in Gaza some months ago now said that only 4 percent of the population has 
 
 moderately sufficient food and that 96 percent are insecure from severe to acute to emergency food insecurity, and it's only getting worse.
 
The amount of aid going in, Israel has now stopped the private aid going in, and the humanitarian aid is low. There's a need for about 600 
 
 truckloads to go in each day, and the latter half of September, we're seeing an average of about 45 aid trucks a day. So, it is a very, very dire 
 
 bad situation in Gaza.
 
KINKADE:  And many Palestinians in Gaza have been displaced multiple times. And even now, people in the north are being told to evacuate. They're under 
 
 evacuation orders. What sort of new challenges does that create?
 
CARROLL:  Well, it's -- I mean, you're right. They've moved several times. The boundaries on what's considered relatively safe compared to other areas 
 
 keeps changing. If people have to move completely out of the north into the south, that puts an unbelievably burden on the south, which is already 
 
 overburdened.
 
Before October 7th, about two-thirds of the population lived in the northern half and a third in the southern half, and that proportion has 
 
 been flipped around, and if everyone moves to the southern half, then you've got the entire population in a space that can't -- that cannot 
 
 support that population, even if aid was getting in, and aid is not getting in, and infrastructure is destroyed, the health care system is largely 
 
 destroyed, electricity and water and sewage systems have all collapsed or virtually collapsed.
 
So, there is no way to protect the health and wellbeing and survival of the entire population of Gaza living in the southern half of that tiny strip.
 
KINKADE:  Yes. So much devastation. Sean Carroll, president and CEO of Anera, thanks so much to you and what your team are doing in the region.
 
CARROLL:  Thank you for having me.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, the identity of Bitcoin's creator has been a secret ever since the cryptocurrency was invented. But a new HBO 
 
 documentary may finally reveal who's behind it.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
KINKADE:  It is one of crypto's biggest mysteries, the identity of Bitcoin's creator. A new HBO documentary may soon change that. "Money 
 
 Electric" sets out to uncover who created the first and most valuable cryptocurrency. CNN's John Sarlin spoke with the film's director.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CULLEN HOBACK, DIRECTOR, "MONEY ELECTRIC: THE BITCOIN MYSTERY":  It's been 18 months kind of holding on to this news in secret.
 
JOHN SARLIN, CNN PRODUCER (voice-over):  A new documentary is tackling perhaps the single greatest mystery of the internet age. Just who is 
 
 Satoshi Nakamoto, the anonymous inventor of Bitcoin?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I've been told Satoshi was a group of people.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I have to be careful at talking about that topic.
 
SARLIN (voice-over):  The mystery behind Bitcoin's anonymous creator has only grown in recent years. First launching in 2009, the cryptocurrency has 
 
 rocketed up and down in value. It's now worth more than $1 trillion.
 
SARLIN:  Why does this story matter?
 
HOBACK:  You know, if Bitcoin had petered out and wasn't being embraced by nation states, wasn't being incorporated into 401(k)s, it would be a 
 
 different story. But Bitcoin is increasingly becoming a major backbone of the financial system. It's not going anywhere.
 
SARLIN (voice-over):  Part of the allure of the Satoshi mystery are the original bitcoins that Satoshi supposedly controls. They're worth tens of 
 
 billions of dollars. That is if they still have access to their crypto wallet.
 
HOBACK:  I think that understanding if that person still holds the keys, what the ideas and intents of that person or people really are is important 
 
 given Bitcoin's prominence. I think it's important for the public to, you know, have a sense of who that might be, particularly if they're still 
 
 involved.
 
SARLIN (voice-over):  In the film, director Cullen Hoback builds the case for his Satoshi suspect, a person he ultimately challenges face-to-face.
 
SARLIN:  You're not the first journalist to try to uncover the identity of Satoshi. Many have come before. I'm thinking of a somewhat notorious 
 
 Newsweek cover story that claimed to uncover Satoshi. How confident are you in your theory?
 
HOBACK:  We confront Satoshi who I -- we make a strong case for in this film with that case. And I think their reaction is, in some ways, more 
 
 telling than even the evidence itself. I don't think my confidence level is as important as what the audience takes away when they see the evidence for 
 
 themselves.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, tributes are being paid to a woman who helped define popular music as we know it. Cissy Houston has died at the age of 91. 
 
 Houston was a successful singer in her own right, but is known as the mother of Whitney Houston, who's widely considered to be one of the 
 
 greatest singers of all time.
 
Cissy Houston herself was a two-time Grammy winner who performed with a wide range of artists, including Aretha Franklin, Elvis Presley, and 
 
 Beyonce. Houston, who was surrounded by her family when she passed had been living with her with Alzheimer's disease.
 
Well, calling all stargazers in the Northern Hemisphere. A meteor shower is expected to peak Monday evening into early Tuesday morning. The shower 
 
 called Draconid is named after the direction the meteors appear to be coming from, the constellation Draco the Dragon.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
These meteors move slower than they were seen during other showers, which means they should be visible for a few seconds. You can expect to see up to 
 
 10 shooting stars per hour. And the good news is, you won't have to stay up too late to see them. Most will be visible for after nightfall.
 
Well, finally, on "First Move." Talk about a trust fall. Catalonia held its human tower competition over the weekend. Men, women, and children 
 
 scrambled all over each other, trying to keep their balance in the process. The Spanish region has been building human towers for centuries, with 
 
 official competition starting back in the 1930s. Dozens of groups battled it out this year for a nearly $18,000 price. It looks very dangerous.
 
Well, that wraps up the show. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Thanks so much for joining us. Stay right here on CNN. Much more news in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END