Headline: Laura Coates Live
Sub-headline: Trump And Harris Trade Attacks In Dueling Rallies; Israel Launches Direct Strikes At Iran In High-Stakes Retaliation; Will Huge Harris TX Rally Give Allred A Boost Against Cruz?; Major Newspapers Decide Not To Endorse Harris; Beyonce Takes Center Stage For Harris Campaign. Aired 11p-12a ET

Aired October 25, 2024 - 23:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[23:00:00]
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: So, you got to vote for Trump, and you will see a mass exodus of manufacturing jobs from Mexico to Michigan, from Shanghai to Sterling Heights, and from Beijing to right here in Traverse City. It's a nice place.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
Nice place. And you people are great. I can't believe it. You know, I figured when I got here, there would be like 20 people. And I was ready to do the full -- look at this place. It goes back. I wish the cameras would show it. These cameras, the fake news. That's a lot of fake news, too, I got to tell you. Look. That's a lot of fake news. I wish it showed. They never show the crowds, you know? They never show it.
 
You ever see Kamala's crowd? They put like 10 people, they bus them in, they take a bus, and they pay people. That's true. They pay people. They don't get people. They put them like that and the camera always shows those people. I don't know. It's so crazy, isn't it? We don't have buses bringing people. The people come here. And we appreciate that you stay. Really, I mean, look at that. All the way to the back.
 
Starting in January, we will give our companies the lowest taxes, the lowest energy costs, the lowest regulatory burdens, and free access to the biggest and best market on the planet. But we're not always going to be the best market. We're close to blowing it. We'll blow it, and we will lose everything. And we're going to keep our dollar standard, by the way, 100%. We're going lose that. And we're not going to go into World War III, little things like that.
 
The centerpiece of this plan will be a 15% made in America corporate tax rate, cutting the tax from 21% to 15%. Now, I'm the one who's almost 40. I got it down to 21. But here's the key, we're going to cut it all the way down to 15. The jobs are going to be flowing companies because it's going to be about the most competitive rate in the world. But only for those who make their product here in the USA and hire American workers for the job.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
LAURA COATES, CNN HOST AND SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: You've been listening to Donald Trump in Traverse City, Michigan, holding a rally there on this busy Friday night. Good evening, I'm Laura Coates. There's a lot going on, including Israel's retaliatory strikes against Iran.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
Sunrise just moments away, where the damage will start being assessed. We have the very latest on that for you in just a moment.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
We also heard from Vice President Harris tonight, deep in the heart of Texas, where the stars at night are big and bright. And none bigger or brighter than Kelly Rowland and Beyonce Knowles Carter. Queen Bee with Kelly joining to try and get out the vote for Harris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEYONCE, SINGER: We are so happy to be standing here on this stage as proud country, Texas women, supporting and celebrating the one and only Vice President Kamala Harris. I'm not here as a celebrity. I'm not here as a politician. I'm here as a mother.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
A mother who cares deeply about the world my children and all of our children living. Our moment, right now. It's time for America to sing a new song.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
Our voices sing a chorus of unity. They sing a song of dignity and opportunity. Are you all ready to add your voice to the new American song?
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: Beyonce's "Freedom" has been the soundtrack for the Harris's campaign. And tonight, that freedom on reproductive rights was the central theme of Harris's message.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: One in three American women lives in a state with a Trump abortion ban. Many of these bans are causing care to be denied until a woman is at death's door. And let us agree, one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to do with her body.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: Joining me now, pollster Frank Luntz, Democratic strategist Ameshia Cross, and Republican strategist Lance Trover. Good to have all of you here.
 
Let me begin with you, Frank. It was a night, it was a long time coming from those who thought Beyonce was going to come for the DNC as well, but there she was along with Kelly Rowland, giving a very fiery and impassioned speech about Texas, about reproductive rights, about being a mother. She even talked about that men, we need you. Did that strike the right core with the voters that you think are most persuadable?
 
FRANK LUNTZ, POLLSTER, COMMUNICATIONS STRATEGIST: I found it fascinating that their signs, freedom, freedom, freedom, up to this point, there has been a republican message. And now, the Democrats, they co-opted it at the convention. They're using it now. It's very powerful. It's very impactful. But Texas is not in play.
 <br>[23:04:56]
 
And what is clearly happening in these last two weeks or 10 days is that Harris is focusing on turnout rather than bringing new people. She wants to make sure that the people who support her now actually go to the polls. This is important. Younger women love her. Younger women do not have a history of turning out to vote. If she can bring them, new voters to the polls, that's a significant challenge to the Trump campaign.
 
So, the question that I have is, is it better at this point to raise turnout among those who already support you or continue to try to go for those last remaining persuadable, uncommitted? And I think her message is very strong.
 
COATES: Ameshia, interestingly enough -- I mean, one of the first things she said after coming out onto the stage was she talked about Colin Allred and said that she wanted him to be, obviously, in the Senate. That race is a little bit more neck-and-neck than anyone expected against Senator Ted Cruz. And yet, here we are. And any president, whoever is behind that resolute desk, has got to have really a cooperative Congress. Otherwise, nothing is going to get done.
 
Is this part of the strategy that's not just top of ticket, but she's got to link into down-ballot as well?
 
AMESHIA CROSS, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: A hundred percent. This visit to Texas was for the down-ballot race. I think that it has to be understood that Colin Allred has put everything into this race. As somebody who does not think that Texas is in play holistically, I do think that we will see people show up for Colin Allred.
 
I also think that it takes a long time to see a state that has long been red even move towards having enough voter registration, enough excitement around a candidate for them to actually even, you know, move the needle just a little bit, even if it's not a win. That matters. It took Georgia -- how many years to become a state that was actually competitive again? I think that it might take a similar thing for Texas.
 
But the importance of the down-ballot race is we cannot forget because with Kamala Harris's economic strategy around, you know, more affordable housing, making sure that there are entryways for small businesses and expanding who can actually start a small business in addition to some of her health care plans, those things will require a certain, you know, House majority as well as a Senate majority. So, she's working to make sure that people understand the importance of those down-ballot races.
 
In addition to that, I do think that it's important to expand the base. But she recognizes this is a turnout race. This will be a base to base election. Her base has to also get fired up.
 
COATES: If that's the case, you know, base to base, in these final days of the election, we're talking about days of the election now, how do you assess and evaluate the threat to the Trump campaign by her focusing on states like this, thinking about the Senate races, not going to just the battleground state, so to speak? Is that going to effectively counter a Trump narrative or a Trump momentum?
 
LANCE TROVER, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST, FORMER SPOKESPERSON FOR DOUG BURGUM'S 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN: I think if you look at the CNN poll that came out overnight and "The Wall Street Journal" poll that came out yesterday, it's easy to look at the head-to-head and say this is a tied race.
 
But there have been warning signs for the Harris campaign that have been going on for months now, the top two issues in this race. Look, she's got the abortion issue, she's got on lock, and I get it, she wants to turn her voters out, but what she's not talking about is lowering the cost of living, what she's not talking about is the immigration issue.
 
And actually, by going to Texas, it gave the Trump campaign a really huge opportunity to once again raise the immigration issue back up because it's the biggest border state that we have.
 
So, I think you take those two things together and you look at the polling in both CNN and "The Wall Street Journal," cost of living is number one, immigration is number two. Donald Trump leads by double digits in both of those issues.
 
And so, until she really starts addressing those issues and, frankly, I haven't seen her really do that this week at all, I think she's really going to struggle going into the last 10 days of this race.
 
COATES: You know, Trump honed in on what he has been talking about with immigration in particular, and he's doubling down on some pretty wild rhetoric that she herself talked about as very insulting and thought -- she was shocked about it. She likened -- he likened the United States to a -- quote -- "garbage can" for the world and reiterating legal threats of jail election officials and political operatives when he wins. He says, about this idea, that people have looked at that and talked about it with respect to immigration in particular.
 
I wonder how voters are receiving rhetoric like that when he is not just talking about it as a garbage can, but he's linking it to other nations dumping people as if human beings could be trash into United States of America. Is that resonating -- no matter how wild the rhetoric, is that resonating with voters?
 
LUNTZ: Just did sessions within the last 48 hours. and even newly- minted Trump voters don't like it. They really want him to keep quiet. They want what he wants to do more than what she wants to do. They approve of his agenda more than hers. But they don't like him. And they don't like this rhetoric. And, in fact, they resent it.
 
COATES: But does the dislike or resentment translate to, I can't vote for you, or just, I don't like you but I'll do it?
 
LUNTZ: It means that Trump, he is one step away from losing them.
 
COATES: Hmm.
 
LUNTZ: But she won't win them. He'll lose them. And I do want to compliment that you see this effort for small business, which is another example of the Harris campaign taking away a traditional Republican, in this case, constituency.
 <br>[23:10:07]
 
The key in all of this, I think, are going to be Latino voters. They represent roughly 20% of the electorate. In every survey, they're showing weaknesses for Harris, strength for Trump, and yet he's using this language that could alienate them. He's dancing on a pin right now and I wonder, can he do this for the next 10 days?
 
CROSS: But I'd argue that this is a new language. He said very vile things about immigrants for a long time. And we still see, unfortunately, this almost very stubborn Latino percentage of voters who consistently support him in state after state.
 
If anything, he has gained in terms of his leverage with Latino voters, even though he's out here saying wild things like this, referring to any human, no matter where they are from, as trash, inserting an idea that because somebody may not have come -- may not -- this may not be their nation of origin, being mindful that Donald Trump's grandparents were also immigrants, being mindful that two out of the three of his wives were also immigrants, being mindful that he has people on his campaign right now who have immigrant backgrounds or first generation Americans. That's wild.
 
LUNTZ: Okay, what I don't understand, and I agree with all that, is that he uses his language and yet his numbers are going up over the last few weeks.
 
CROSS: Because America has a lot of xenophobic people.
 
LUNTZ: No, these are among Latinos, first generation Latinos. How can he speak that way and yet they seem to be embracing him?
 
CROSS: I think you would have to ask a first-generation Latino.
 
TROVER: Well, I think it's pretty clear they're not happy with what has happened over the last four years at the border. I mean, let's just call it for what it is.
 
CROSS: He's targeting their community specifically.
 
TROVER: But they're as upset as anybody is on what's going on at the border. And I think the problem for the Harris campaign in her messaging is that she continues to pretend like she had nothing to do with the border problems that we've had. She and Joe Biden came into office and undid all of the Trump border policies, which led to millions of immigrants coming into this country.
 
And I think her failure to at least acknowledge that every time she steps out, which is what she did again in the CNN town hall the other night, to pretend none of that happened, really is an insult to many of these voters. Voters are not stupid. They know how we got to this point.
 
And so, I think if you look at it, that's why. And when Donald Trump leads on an issue by 16 points, it's because these voters are very unhappy. Seventy percent of this country believes we're on the wrong track. And so, that's why you're seeing the numbers.
 
COATES: I think some people are often -- talking point I hear is, I came in the -- quote, unquote -- "right way," and, therefore, I have some ability to look down the nose at those who've come in the -- quote, unquote -- "wrong way." And they use that to compartmentalize their viewpoints. And I've seen this in different polling. You've talked about this polling before. He is not talking about me. Now, be it far from me to assess whether that's the right frame of mind, it would not be my own viewpoint.
 
But you look at these issues, Ameshia, and I do wonder, given the fact that she was in Texas today and she did not address immigration, instead, she pulled in and talked about what, Lance, you said, Democrats have a lock on about the future, about looking and saying, do I want my daughters to have more rights or less rights than I did now, that seems to be a very compelling argument for a lot of voters, a lot of Republican voters as well, where abortion is a bipartisan issue.
 
CROSS: Well, yeah, I think part of that is because 54% of the American electorate is women. We've seen organizing across college campuses because, obviously, younger women are the ones who are at dire peril considering they are in the most fertile years.
 
But we've seen women across multiple states, and many of them Republican women, women who are pro-life, who have had issues where they themselves had their lives at risk because a child that was no longer viable, a child who had significant abnormalities, who was not going to live, they had to carry because of extreme abortion restrictions in their states.
 
I think that it's very important that we recognize that this issue is something that crosses all cultural lines in addition to partisanship. It does not have a partisan leaning. Women care about abortion rights. Will that be enough? I'm not exactly sure because I do think that, you know, abortion rights have been on the ballot multiple times. This isn't the first election cycle they've been there. And we've seen time and time again where, you know, women may be upset about it.
 
But Republicans still seem to eke out those races. We've seen it. We've seen it specifically in the Senate. So, it's very frustrating. And I don't know how -- you know, I think that this is going to fall down between -- I don't think it's going to fall with those voters. I think it's going to fall down with white women voters.
 
If white women voters show up and they show their support for Kamala Harris, be it whether it's on abortion rights or whether it's on the care, economy or anything else within her plan, it's going to come down to them, because if they do what they did in 2016, if they do what they did in 2020, vote for Trump in higher numbers because they did in 2020, then this is going to be a loss.
 
COATES: Well, you know, to be fair, both Harris and Trump are campaigning and having rallies in areas that are not necessarily going to go blue or red for them, respectively, but they well know their rallies are picked up nationally. You have Beyonce on.
 <br>[23:15:00]
 
I don't care if it's just Texas or Houston. Everyone is watching as well, Kelly Rowland included. And Trump has his own list of people he's hoping to compel the nation to watch as well. And so, you know, the power and magic of television. Everyone, thank you so much.
 
TROVER: Thank you.
 
LUNTZ: Thank you.
 
CROSS: Thank you.
 
COATES: We are following breaking news in the Middle East. Israel's military confirming tonight it conducted -- quote -- "precise strikes on military targets in Iran" in response to an Iranian missile attack on Israel earlier this month.
 
According to White House official, President Biden has been breaching the strikes and the White House was notified ahead of this retaliatory attack. Sources telling CNN that this operation in Iran is over.
 
I want to bring in CNN correspondent Jeremy Diamond, who is in Tel Aviv. Jeremy, thank you for joining us. What more can you tell us? JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, Laura, the Israeli military now saying that this operation that lasted about four hours included three waves of strikes on Iranian targets, military targets inside of Iran. They now say that operation is over. And they also say that -- quote -- "the planes have safely returned home."
 
We are also getting more detail about exactly what these military targets were inside of Iran. They were missile manufacturing facilities as well as air defense systems inside of Iran.
 
And, of course, we have seen that some of these strikes appear to have been conducted on the Iranian capital of Tehran as we saw multiple reports of air defense systems active in that area, plumes of smoke, intercepts appearing to take place in the night sky over Tehran.
 
This retaliation, of course, carried out by Israel tonight was retaliation for that Iranian ballistic missile barrage on October 1st. And over the course of the last three and a half weeks, there have been intense deliberations within the Israeli security cabinet, but also intense consultations between Israeli and American officials as the American officials sought to rein in the initial list of Israeli targets, which they had considered would potentially include nuclear and energy targets.
 
But tonight, Israeli officials are trying to make very clear that they did not go after those energy targets, they only went after military targets. And now, a clear warning from the Israeli military spokesman, Admiral Daniel Hagari, saying that if the regime in Iran were to make the mistake, he says, of beginning a new round of escalation -- quote -- we will be obligated to respond."
 
A very clear warning coming now early this morning as we wait to see what, if any, that Iranian response will be. Laura?
 
COATES: Thank you, Jeremy. Here with me as well is CNN's chief national security correspondent, Alex Marquardt. Alex, the officials in the United States have been very concerned about how Israel would retaliate. What are you hearing tonight?
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, certainly I think there's going to be some measure of breathing a sigh of relief because we've believed that what we saw over the course of the past four hours is what the United States expected. The U.S. has been very nervous about what Israel would actually undertake.
 
And in the past 24 days, since the Iranian strike against Israel on October 1st, we have seen the U.S. try to shape the Israeli operation that took place tonight. We heard warnings from President Biden and his top aides essentially saying we really hope that they don't go after Iran's nuclear facilities, that we really would like them not to go after the oil refineries and other parts of the energy sector because that could disrupt the global energy markets.
 
And so, we saw the U.S. providing support to Israel in a way, I'm told, that they would feel comfortable more limiting their strikes that we saw tonight. The U.S. sent this THAAD air defense system, very sophisticated advanced system to Israel. They carried out strikes against the Houthis in Yemen. More F-16s were moved to the region.
 
And so, going into tonight's strikes, the U.S. did believe that this series of targets would be rather limited to just military targets. And here, looking at this statement from the IDF, that's exactly what it was. It was these missile manufacturing facilities. It was surface- to-air missile capabilities. It did not appear to stray beyond that.
 
And so, this is what the U.S. thought would happen. But as we've seen over the course of the past few months with this U.S.-Israeli relationship, Prime Minister Netanyahu has often shown that he's ready to defy President Biden. And so, there was some concern that he might go bigger than this. So, the hope certainly will be for now that it could stop here, this tit for tat of going back and forth, but that is far from a guarantee.
 
COATES: Really important to get this information as we continue to watch what happens unfold in the region. Jeremy, Alex, thank you both so much. We're going to keep an eye on the Middle East region all night long. Actually, Alex will keep CNN's live coverage going tonight right after this show wraps, so stay with CNN ahead.
 <br>[23:20:03]
 
Ahead, could Harris's big rally in Texas have an effect on another huge race? When the Democrats' hope will kick Senator Ted Cruz out of office? Well, Beto O'Rourke tells us after this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEYONCE: It's time for America to sing a new song.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: We have Senator Ted Cruz for being here, Senator Ted.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
It's hard to believe he's in a race because, honestly, I don't know who would want to run against him because he's really a great senator.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[23:25:02]
 
COATES: Just call it a Texas two-step. Donald Trump campaigning in Texas just hours before Vice President Harris and rallying supporters behind Senator Ted Cruz. Cruz is locked in a tough battle for reelection against Democrat and Congressman Colin Allred. Allred spoke at Harris's rally in Houston tonight, actually, calling Ted Cruz too small for Texas. Democrats, of course, are hoping Harris can give Allred a boost in their quest to flip the seat and keep control of the Senate.
 
Joining me now, former Texas Congressman Beto O'Rourke, who ran against Senator Ted Cruz in 2018 and also ran for president in 2020. Beto, thank you so much for joining me this evening.
 
Look, Ted Cruz spent today hitting Allred for campaigning with Harris, calling both -- quote -- "radical and extreme." Does it help Allred to campaign with Harris?
 
BETO O'ROURKE, FORMER TEXAS REPRESENTATIVE, FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I love to see this, and Ted Cruz would not be pointing this out if you were not concerned. The polls have them neck-and-neck. Colin Allred is outraising Ted Cruz by a Texas mile. I set the all- time Senate fundraising record in 2018 at $80 million. Colin Allred has blown past that right now. He's got the resources, he's got the momentum. They're polling closely.
 
The event tonight that he held with Kamala Harris, with Beyonce, with Willie Nelson, just more excitement, enthusiasm, and more energy around turnout, which is what we need in Texas. We're not so much a red state and I know we're not a blue state, but it's more accurate to call us a non-voting state. Millions of registered voters for a number of reasons. Importantly, voter suppression did not cast a ballot in 2020 or 2022.
 
I think the kind of excitement that we see in the state right now bodes very well for Colin Allred. And who knows Texas is trending blue faster than any other previously red state? Kamala Harris, those 40 electoral college votes. It's pretty damn tantalizing. And the last time that a Democratic nominee spent time this close to an election in Texas, it was Bill Clinton in 1992. He got within three and a half points of George H.W. Bush in this state. So, who knows? But, you know, 11 days to go, anything is possible in Texas.
 
COATES: It sounds like you think those who have not voted before or have chosen not to vote in the past will vote this time. But for Harris, you think that she has a real shot?
 
O'ROURKE: I think the sleeper part of the electorate right now is young people. We've spent the better part of this year with, powered by People, registering young people, primarily on college campuses, then asking their permission, getting their cell phone number, and staying in touch with them ahead of this election. If they show up anywhere close to their proportion of the population, Colin Allred is the winner.
 
And Kamala Harris will get closer than any Democratic nominee since Bill Clinton if she doesn't outright eclipse the proximity of his race and maybe even bring home those 40 electoral college votes. There's got to be a reason that she's spending this time in Texas and not Michigan or Pennsylvania or Arizona or Georgia or any other conventional swing state. So, we're pretty excited in Texas and this just adds fuel to the fire.
 
COATES: Why do you think she is focusing on Texas? Obviously, Texas has been a state -- there has been a huge focus on reproductive rights. Is that why you think she is focusing now?
 
O'ROURKE: That's a big part of it. The abortion ban that Donald Trump and Ted Cruz made possible, that Greg Abbott signed into law, in the 16 months following that, 26,000 Texas women and girls were forced to carry the child of their rapist to term, 26,000 times. There is no exception for rape or incest or the life of the mother in Texas. It's the most obscene abortion ban in America.
 
And I think Kamala Harris has a great opportunity to say, hey, America, United States, this is your future right here in Texas. If we don't turn the page, we are not going back. So, I'm excited that she's in Texas for all of the great reasons, including giving Colin Allred a little bit additional energy, but also reminding America of what's at stake in this election.
 
COATES: You called Trump a white nationalist years ago. Now, Harris has called Trump a fascist, along with other people as well. I am curious to know what you make of that. Is that the right message for her to make at this final time and stretch?
 
O'ROURKE: I think more than anything, the American people, the electorate, crave authenticity and honesty. When I watched the CNN town hall the other night, Vice President Harris was as clear, as powerful, as honest as she could possibly be on this issue because she so deeply cares for and loves this country.
 <br>[23:29:54]
 
She understands full well that 248 years into this experiment, if we elect someone who promises to be a dictator on day one, who says that immigrants are poisoning the blood of America, a line that you could lift from mind comfort out of the mouth of Adolf Hitler, who promises to turn the military against enemies within, meaning the Democratic Party, and it's not just Kamala Harris or Beto O'Rourke saying it, it is General Milley, it is General Kelly, it is General Mattis, these are folks who have dedicated their life to service to this country, and in the case of General Kelly, lost his son in service to this country, that's what matters most right now.
 
And I love the fact that the vice president is bringing this home with an issue that could very well save what Abraham Lincoln called the last best hope of Earth. So, she's our leader. I'm all behind her. I love to see what she's doing, and I know that we're going to win this.
 
COATES: There has been some consternation, though, within the Democratic Party about whether she is appealing too much to anti-Trump Republicans. Senator Bernie Sanders citing to "AP" -- quote -- "The truth of the matter is that there are a hell of a lot more working- class people who could vote for Kamala Harris than there are conservative Republicans." Do you think that Harris is focusing on the wrong constituency? Is she neglecting the party's base in these final days?
 
O'ROURKE: I think it's a false choice. She wants to be president for everyone in this country. So, campaigning with Liz Cheney, I think that's great. I think it's also wonderful that Senator Sanders and Representative Ocasio-Cortez were in Texas with Congressman Greg Casar riling up the base here on these fundamental economic issues.
 
And let's not forget, Vice President Harris has talked about expanding Medicare to cover dental and vision, $25,000 first time homebuyer assistance, $50,000 tax credit for first time entrepreneurs, and making sure that we expand the earned income tax credit and the child tax credit. She is talking about the core economic issues that this country cares about, while also making sure that we understand what's at stake, what's on the line for our democracy and for the future of the United States of America. I think this is a winning strategy.
 
COATES: Former Congressman Beto O'Rourke, thank you so much for joining us.
 
O'ROURKE: Thank you, Laura.
 
COATES: Two of the country's biggest newspapers declining to endorse a candidate this year, and it wasn't the staff behind the decision, but the billionaire owners. I'll talk with an opinion columnist from one of those papers questioning that very decision after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COATES: Tonight, two of the most legendary journalists in America are rebuking their own employer, "The Washington Post." The paper chose not to endorse anyone in the election. And Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein saying in a joint statement, "We respect the traditional independence of the editorial page, but this decision 11 days out from the 2024 presidential election ignores The Washington Post's own overwhelming reportorial evidence on the threat Donald Trump poses to democracy."
 
Paper says it is returning to its roots of not endorsing candidates. But thousands of people have now cancelled their prescriptions, and the paper's editor-at-large has resigned.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERT KAGAN, FORMER WASHINGTON POST EDITOT-AT-LARGE: The Post has had no trouble endorsing presidential candidates up until now. And by the way, this argument that they're making that somehow, they want to become above it all on this thing, they've endorsed all kinds of candidates in this election season. They endorsed a Democratic nominee in Maryland. They endorsed other Democratic nominees. So, is it just only in the race that Donald Trump happens to be running in that they've decided not to endorse. It's absurd.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: The choice comes days after the "L.A. Times" made the very same decision. Well, tonight, both papers are reporting their billionaire owners were responsible for ending election endorsements. That includes one of the world's richest men and the owner of "The Washington Post," Jeff Bezos.
 
Joining me now, "L.A. Times" op-ed columnist and professor at Western Michigan University, LZ Granderson. LZ, good to see you, my friend. The publisher of The Post says he sees the decision as -- quote -- "consistent with the values The Post has always stood for and what we hope for in a leader: character and courage in service to the American ethic."
 
I want to know your take. Is it courageous for an editorial board to sit on the sidelines 11 days before the election?
 
LZ GRANDERSON, OP-ED COLUMNIST FOR LOS ANGELES TIMES, PODCAST HOST, VISITING SCHOLAR AT WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY: You know, that's a complicated question because this isn't an editorial board decision, this is an ownership decision. And so, I think if the plan was not to endorse, that plan should have been communicated long before steps were taken to actually put together an editorial where your team and staff was preparing content to be produced or published online.
 
So, it doesn't seem consistent. It seems like a last-minute decision and not one that was thought out or at least communicated to the editorial teams of both the paper I worked at as well as "The Washington Post."
 
COATES: What impact is that having on not only the morale, but the opinion of the reporters and journalists within the organization about where they are?
 
GRANDERSON: You know, I don't want to go into too much details. I've had a lot of conversations with colleagues. I can speak personally.
 
COATES: Uh-hmm.
 
GRANDERSON: I'm devastated, to be honest with you. I'm a journalism professor. I spent two, almost three weeks of this semester just lecturing on Watergate. We watched documentaries and talked about notetaking and the importance of journalism. And so, you know, as a professor, I feel like I have egg on my face because I have to go back and face my students not just having my newspaper not having, you know, endorse a candidate but also "The Washington Post," which we've been studying.
 <br>[23:40:02]
 
So, it is devastating, you know, for the industry to have corporate media have such a large impact on journalism.
 
COATES: You know, the daughter of the "L.A. Times" publisher is said to have had a lot of influence over him and tied the paper's decision to Gaza, saying -- quote -- "This is not a vote for Donald Trump. This is a refusal to endorse a candidate that is overseeing a war on children" -- unquote. Does that pass muster with you?
 
GRANDERSON: It does not, um, in large part because I -- I've been, you know, aware of conversations prior to, uh, that communication that you just shared. And as an op-ed columnist, I've written about the war, and I know how complicated it is to get something published.
 
And I just don't find that personally to be consistent with my experience at working at the Times. I'm not sure, you know, if there's anyone else that has a different experience, but from my personal experience, that doesn't seem to cut the mustard at all. No.
 
COATES: Trump actually has been campaigning off of the non- endorsements. Here's more from Robert Kagan, who is the former Washington Post editor-at-large. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAGAN: This is obviously an effort by Jeff Bezos to curry favor with Donald Trump in the anticipation of his possible victory. So, if we want to know how Trump is going to stifle the free press in the United States, this is -- this is the answer. This is how it's going to happen, especially when the media is owned by corporate titans who have a lot to lose if Trump is angry at them.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: Do you share that concern?
 
GRANDERSON: I don't. It's not Donald Trump that's controlling this, it's the owners of the newspapers. There's a decision to be made. Donald Trump made his decision. As an industry, we can make ours. And, you know, as a student of history, you know, every example that I can come across in which we appease people like Donald Trump, it never works out well.
 
You know, we can go back to the Civil War and having the Confederates there. And the choice is, do you bring them back into the fold or do you treat them as enemies of the country, which they were because they tried to destroy the country? They decided to try to appease the racists. And we're still dealing with this crap today.
 
So, there's no example in which easing someone like a Donald Trump works out. This isn't his decision, this is my boss's decision, this is "The Washington Post" decision.
 
COATES: A lot of people reacted to these decisions, and they've canceled their subscriptions for both the "L.A. Times" and "The Washington Post." Will any of this, the lessening of subscriptions, the bottom line, will that have an impact on this decision going forward, do you think, or change the minds?
 
GRANDERSON: You know, I don't know. You know, I have not had an opportunity to speak with Dr. Pat (ph) or my editor-in-chief, Terry (ph), yet. I have spoken, you know, consistently with my direct supervisor about this.
 
I don't know what's going to happen with the corporate media aspect of it. But I'm very, very grateful that corporate media is the only form of journalism that's available. There are other sources of excellent reporting that can be obtained besides traditional sources now. And, you know, if corporate media is going to try to squeeze this rock until it gets every last drop and then move on to the next entity to try to make money off of, then so be it.
 
But journalism cannot be a corpse in all of this. Journalism must stay alive in all of this. Journalism defends democracy. We hold our elected officials accountable.
 
And without the free press, and I know a lot of people may roll their eyes about this, the forefathers put this in the First Amendment for a reason, because they experienced what it's like to live without a free press. It's oppression. And so, without a free press, America is not America.
 
So, I just hope that the people who are canceling their subscriptions, they aren't canceling their subscriptions to journalism. Journalism still is needed in this country.
 
COATES: LZ Granderson, thank you so much for joining us.
 
GRANDERSON: Thank you for having me.
 
COATES: Well, her fans have been on -- we call it Baywatch ever since Harris first launched her campaign with Beyonce's "Freedom" song as the anthem. Tonight, she finally showed up and with it, a very important message. We'll talk all about it next.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEYONCE: We are at the precipice of an incredible shift, the brink of history.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEYONCE: Imagine our daughters growing up seeing what's possible with no ceilings, no limitations. Imagine our grandmothers. Imagine what they feel right now. Those who have lived to see this historic day.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
Even those who are no longer physically with us. Imagine all of their sacrifice. The sacrifices made so we can witness the strength of a woman.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: You thought The Boss and Spike Lee and Samuel L. Jackson and Tyler Perry were enough? Well, the Harris campaign said, hold my drink! Beyonce came out, Kelly Rowling came out, Miss Tina came out in full force tonight in Texas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEYONCE: We need you. Your voice has power and magnitude. Your vote is one of the most valuable tools, and we need you. Your freedom is your God-given right, your human right.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[23:50:03]
 
COATES: So, can Queen Bee's star power be enough to move the needle for Harris? Here to discuss, Michael Eric Dyson. He, of course, is a professor of African American &amp; Diaspora Studies at Vanderbilt University. He has actually taught a class on Beyonce. He's also the co-author of "Unequal: A Story of America."
 
Michael, good to see you tonight. I mean, Beyonce, she didn't perform traditionally as a singer. She wasn't there as a celebrity. She wasn't there as a politician. She was there as a mother. What did you think of her appearance, of the words and the message that she provided?
 
MICHAEL ERIC DYSON, PROFESSOR OF AFRICAN AMERICAN &amp; DIASPORA STUDIES, VANDEBILT UNIVERSITY: Well, it was a remarkable display of essentially three generations of women. Miss Tina coming out first to prepare the way to speak about the wisdom and eloquence of a generation that sought deeply and profoundly the opportunity to represent at an equal level to the men and others in the culture. And then Kelly came out and gave a (INAUDIBLE) speech that was pretty remarkable in its own right, full of vigor and insight and encouragement for people to reimagine their futures.
 
And, of course, Queen B comes out, and she represents such an intelligent reflection on the country girl values. She not only implicitly ties it into her latest album, but she makes sure that people understand these are southern roots. You want to say that the other side is full of good old boys and good old girls and downhome wisdom? She makes a point that this is a Southern reality, the truth of the values they represent, and we are just as good and just as powerful, and we have a future ahead of us. And then Kamala Harris comes out.
 
So, you've got three generation of Black women standing up for Kamala Harris and standing up for democracy.
 
COATES: They also invoked, for Beyonce specifically, men, men and women. She appealed to the young men and men more broadly, saying that we need them, we need their votes. Did you think that was compelling to try to do that, which the Harris campaign is seeking to do?
 
DYSON: Absolutely. You know, some have chosen to begrudge Black men their independence and their autonomy. Some have chosen to attack them. But let's be real. The greatest constituency that supports Kamala Harris are Black women. After that, Black men. So, you don't want to alienate them. You can call them to accountability. Patriarchy, sexism, and misogyny are truly endemic in American culture, not just in African-American pockets.
 
So, she wanted to bring a message of encouragement. Come brothers, come fathers, come sons, come uncles, and join us in the fight for true democracy in this country. I think it was a beautiful message, well done, and timed in such a way to say it's not just about the sisters, it's about the brothers, too.
 
COATES: We know this wasn't actually the first time that Beyonce has endorsed a political candidate, although there has been a lot made of her doing this time. She's about what, 50-50 in her track record. It didn't move a needle when she endorsed Hillary in 2016. But I do wonder about the times we're in now. There's a big difference between 2016 and 2024. Will this time be different?
 
DYSON: I think so. She's in a swing state. She's in contested battleground state. She's in a place where people have a tremendous conflict over what the true nature of the vision of America should be. And I think that coming out at just this point, less than two weeks before the big day, as it were, she lands her voice to an overwhelming, I think, upswell of people who are trying to decide what to do.
 
And I think for those sitting on a fence, she may be compelling, but she's also reminding people who are already committed to Kamala Harris, come on out and vote and stand up, men and women, represent for the best interests of this nation.
 
COATES: Well, Texas becoming increasingly, you know, in play for that Senate race as well between Allred and Cruz and, of course, Harris talking about that specifically. But here is what former President Trump had to say about Beyonce's appearance just moments after at his own rally in Michigan and, by the way, earlier today when he also was in Texas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Kamala is at a dance party with Beyonce.
 
Today, Kamala is here in Texas to rub shoulders with woke celebrities. Isn't that exciting?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: Let me ask you, how impactful do you think celebrity endorsements will be for the average voter thinking about their politics?
 <br>[23:55:00]
 
DYSON: I think it's a huge one. You know, those who are professionals, those who are old hands at this, they're going to make up their minds. But for somebody who's fence-sitting or not sure or trying to question what direction they should take, this could play a significant role. And if you're a fan of Beyonce and if you follow her religiously, then you know that she is a woman who speaks few words, but when they do come out, they're authentic, they're powerful, they're meaningful. So, what she said tonight is quite meaningful, and I think it'll have a great impact on those who are trying to figure out what to do, what their destiny truly is.
 
COATES: I see you did there just now. I saw the destiny reference. I knew it was coming. Gosh, Michael Eric Dyson, nice to see you. Thank you so much.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
DYSON: Always great to see you, Ms. Laura Coates.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
COATES: Well, thank you all for watching. Our live coverage continues with Alex Marquardt right after here in D.C. after a short break. We'll leave you tonight, though, with Donald Trump's own mini-musical performance from his rally in Michigan. Good night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)