Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Democrats Raise More Than $100M Over The Course Of The DNC; RFK Suspends Campaign, Hoping To Boost Support For Trump; Biden, Qatari Emir Discuss Need For Ceasefire And Hostage Deal; Republican Groups, Candidates And Trump's Own Campaign Have Poured Millions Into Trump Businesses; FDA Approves Updated COVID Vaccine, Available Within Days; Kobe Bryant's Legacy Celebrated In Los Angeles Today. Aired 7-8a ET

Aired August 24, 2024 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:19]
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Hi, everyone, good morning. Welcome to CNN This Morning. It is Saturday, August 24th. I'm Amara Walker.
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Victor Blackwell. You know what else it is? I said last hour it's chai weather. It's also sweatshirt weather.
 
WALKER: It is. I was actually so ill-prepared this week when I was walking my kids to their class. People are wearing shorts and a tank top. And they're like, mom, it's cold. I was like, I didn't even check the weather.
 
BLACKWELL: Good job, Amara.
 
WALKER: I thought it was still like, you know, 80 degrees or something.
 
BLACKWELL: Got these babies out here freezing?
 
WALKER: That was me.
 
BLACKWELL: It's only the 70s, they're not freezing. All right, here's what we're working on for you this morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: We're going to walk up those stairs? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, after that.
 
HARRIS: Win. We are going to win.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BLACKWELL: A confident Kamala Harris sets her sights on the next phase. Now, finally 73 days, the last stretch of the presidential election. We're just a little more than two weeks away from the vice president facing off with former President Donald Trump on a debate stage for the first time.
 
WALKER: And Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is proving you if you can't beat him, join him. Just hours after Kennedy suspended his long-shot third- party presidential bid, he appeared on stage with former President Trump in the battleground state of Arizona. We are going in-depth on the home stretch in the race for the White House.
 
BLACKWELL: And breaking news in Germany this morning. Police are looking for the attacker behind a stabbing spree that killed at least three people and wounded several others. 
 
WALKER: And tropical trouble in paradise. Tropical storm, Hone, could hit Hawaii with life-threatening flooding and dangerous winds that will increase the danger of fires. Meteorologist Allison Chinchar is here to track it all. 
 
With the Democratic and Republican tickets locked in, the unpredictable 2024 presidential race has entered its final stretch. The Harris campaign is entering the next phase of the election with momentum and a mountain of cash. 26.2 million people tuned in to the final night of the Democratic National Convention surpassing the RNC's closing night.
 
BLACKWELL: And Democrats say they raised more than $7 million during the vice president's acceptance speech and more than $100 million over the entire convention. Trump reclaimed the spotlight last night. He campaigned in Arizona alongside Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., the independent presidential candidate, ended days of speculation and suspended his campaign for the White House and then endorsed Trump. What remains, though, is unclear. What kind of impact this will have on the race?
 
WALKER: CNN's Kristen Holmes was in Arizona for that rally.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Victor and Amara, Donald Trump taking the stage here in Glendale, Arizona, a critical battleground state for a generally traditional (INAUDIBLE), perhaps the most notable moment of the entire night, who's really brought out RFK, Jr. who had suspended his campaign earlier in the day and endorsed Donald Trump. RFK, Jr. talking about what it was that led him to lend his support to the former president. 
 
ROBERT F. KENNEDY, JR. (I), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The best way to build a safe America is to rebuild our industrial base and rebuild the middle class in this country. And don't you want a president who's going to get us out of the wars and who's going to rebuild the middle class in this country? 
 
HOLMES: RFK's endorsement of Donald Trump earlier in the day had come after weeks of high-level conversations between Trump's team and RFK's orbit that started just before the Republican National Convention but it really escalated after Kamala Harris was put at the top of the ticket. There became a belief among those supporters of Donald Trump's that RFK would be siphoning votes from Donald Trump in battleground states and not Kamala Harris. 
 
Now, it's something we actually heard from RFK Jr. when he suspended his campaign, that he believed he would be taking votes from Trump instead of from Democrats. Now, just to give you an idea of why the Trump campaign thought this was so important, I want to point to the polls here in Arizona. The most recent poll, a New York Times poll, showing that RFK was polling at roughly six percent. Now, in that poll, Donald Trump was polling around 42 percent, Kamala Harris around 45. They understand, Donald Trump's campaign understands that not all that six percent is going to back Donald Trump. 
 
However, they believe that this race is going to be determined by razor thin margins and anything could help. So, if RFK drops out and endorses Donald Trump, they believe they will get at least some of that to boost Donald Trump up and could help him win in November. And I do want to know, it's not just RFK pulling like that here in Arizona. It's like that in several battleground states. So, they are hoping that this gives him, Donald Trump, a competitive advantage. Obviously, we'll see how this plays out as we get closer to November, but expect to see RFK on the campaign trail for and with the former president. Amara and Victor.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 <br>[07:05:10]
 
BLACKWELL: Thank you. Joining me now are Brian Robinson, Republican Strategist and President of Robinson Republic P.R.; and Howard Franklin, a Democratic Political Strategist. Gentlemen, welcome. 
 
BRIAN ROBINSON, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Good morning. 
 
BLACKWELL: Brian, let me start with you on RFK. RFK Jr., I should be sure to say. Donald Trump has called him a liberal lunatic. Now, he has respect for him. And that reversal really is not unusual in politics when an opponent endorses you. But how much do you think this now support helps Trump?
 
ROBINSON: Well, the Trump campaign thinks it helps them a lot. They put out a memo on Friday showing that in every single swing state, the RFK voters break toward Trump. In Georgia, was thirteen percent, but in the Nevada it was by 50 percent. So, that was a large margin. One thing they said was that in Arizona, that would equate to 44,000 votes, well beyond what the margin was in 2020. Did Georgia -- it was 19,000 votes, again more than what the margin was in 2020. 
 
So, they think in these narrowly decided states that this could be decisive. And look, these are the voters who are going for RFK, some of them just didn't want to vote for Biden, some just didn't want to vote for Trump, and of course, they would probably be checking out Kamala Harris now, but these are not traditional Democrat voters who have voted for the Kennedys over the last 60 years, right? There are some things where Republicans are speaking more to their issues than the Democrats are. 
 
BLACKWELL: The Democratic campaign after RFK dropped out, they released a statement, here's a line of it, "For any American out there who is tired of Donald Trump and looking for a new way forward, ours is a campaign for you." Should that be the extent of outreach to these voters because they went a little harder after Nikki Haley voted. 
 
HOWARD FRANKLIN, DEMOCRATIC POLITICAL STRATEGIST: They did go a little harder after Nikki Haley voters. Excuse me, I'm still trying to regain my voice after Chicago, I will say that the Democratic Party has had a lot of experience courting the voters of folks who ran against Donald Trump, Republicans who've run against Donald Trump, and I would say in Chicago this was on full display Wednesday and Thursday nights. We had prominent national Republicans taking the stage, decrying Donald Trump as unfit for the office, and really imploring people to consider the Democratic tickets. I think that the Democratic Party nationally has already got kind of built the muscle memory up to go after Republican voters. I think it will be any different, but I know that RFK has taken some positions that would not fit in the, in the policy folders for a Kamala Harris.
 
BLACKWELL: So, you think it's a smart investment to go after some of these voters. 
 
FRANKLIN: Absolutely.
 
BLACKWELL: OK, let me try to ask you this, RFK, when he withdrew this was at his news conference not at the, the rally in Glendale, he said this: "If you do vote for me, to be good supporters," if you do vote for me and neither the candidates win 270 electoral votes, which is quite possible in fact, today our polling shows them at 269-269, I could conceivably still end up in the White House in a contingent election. What kind of endorsement is that? Vote for him in the swing states, but still, I could win.
 
ROBINSON: Yes, I'm still in the market, baby. Yes, that it was absolutely a really odd quote, but R.K. Jr. says a lot of odd things. I don't know that voters are paying attention to that. You get into the electoral math. That's really over most people's heads or concerns. So, I don't I don't think that really matters. I think what's best for Trump is to show that he has a support of this candidate and hopefully his supporters. And we see from data that he is getting most of those supporters. That's what matters here. Trump needed a momentum news cycle to kind of get back on track. The Democrats had a great week. Now, the Republicans are going to get the focus back on them. This was a good first day coming out of the convention.
 
BLACKWELL: All right, let's talk about Vice President Harris. And I've got a focus group coming up at the top of the next hour, and some of the voters in this group are leaning toward voting for her. And even they say, I'm waiting for more policy clarity. Give me something more.
 
Do you think there's a cost to the campaign about not being more specific and clear about policies beyond the economic policy already released?
 
FRANKLIN: Yes, I mean, I think everything we've seen in polling so far says that economics is at the top of everyone's concerns. I think the vice president did make the right choice in her speech and through this week leading into economic policy releasing some of the details around fighting inflation and figuring out how to improve the lives of middle class Americans. So, I don't think that we're in a tough position there, but I think it is difficult to do all the things that this vice president has been asked to do in a very short period of time. Raise the money or hold on and win the nomination.
 
BLACKWELL: Sure, but we're beyond the convention now, right? There's this promise of an interview or news conference in the next week. There's got to be something more to talk about.
 
FRANKLIN: Agreed. And I'm sure that it's being formulated and fomented behind closed doors, but I 100 percent agree with you, Victor, it's got to be a great interview, and it's got to get into some other policy issues that go beyond the economy.
 
[107:10:12] 
 
BLACKWELL: Let's talk Georgia Republican. OK, you want to hit this before I move on?
 
ROBINSON: She gave a speech that was directed toward former Republicans and independents in Metro Phoenix and Metro Philadelphia and Metro Atlanta. And she was able to do that because that party's base is so excited that Joe Biden's not at the top of the ticket. It's liberated her. At some juncture, she's going to have to tell the left something they want to hear. She will not get a free pass for 75 more days.
 
BLACKWELL: All right, let's talk about Georgia Republican politics. We'll bring it local, but this could be a state that decides the election. Trump is now playing nice with Georgia Governor Brian Kemp. He posted on social media, he thanked Kemp for quote, all his help and support in Georgia, where a win is so important to the success of our party and mostly important to our country. I look forward to working with you, your team and all of my friends in Georgia to help make America great again. What's that about?
 
ROBINSON: Both sides wanted to make peace. Georgia Republicans have been freaking out for a full month, Victor. I mean, just absolutely horrified to see this divide within the party. Brian Kemp is more popular in the metro Atlanta counties where the huge vote totals are. And Donald Trump being on a stage with Brian Kemp isn't just good for Brian Kemp and his political future showing him as a team player, it's good for Donald Trump. There are many House and State Senate districts that kept one that Trump lost. If he can help in some of those swing the areas if he can be a validator, look, Georgia's going to be better under Donald Trump under Kamala Harris, Brian Kemp, is a is a well- known well-respected most popular politician in the state even Democrats independence here given high ratings. 
 
BLACKWELL: Last thing you think you'll be on stage together the rally?
 
ROBINSON: I think that visual in Georgia maybe not anywhere else, but in Georgia is highly important. And look, Trump must win here, right?
 
BLACKWELL: Brian, Howard, thank you.
 
ROBINSON: Thank you.
 
WALKER: Multiple Secret Service agents involved in the security planning of Trump's rally in Pennsylvania have been reassigned to administrative duties in order to work from home following Trump's attempted assassination. 
 
The Secret Service continues to face criticism over the security failures that allowed a gunman to fire eight rounds at the former president hitting Trump's ear and killing one person at the rally.
 
CNN's Holmes Lybrand has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HOLMES LYBRAND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Victor and Amara. Yes, so multiple members of the Secret Service Including one from Trump's own detail have been reassigned to administrative duties and ordered to work from home. These individuals were involved in the security planning for the July 13th rally, where Trump was shot. And Speaker of the House Mike Johnson heavily criticized the Secret Service for failing to discipline its members sooner, adding that the move was, "nowhere near enough." 
 
This all comes as we are reporting new details on the failures that day, including how the agency never picked up local radios that were set aside ahead of the rally. Now, we know that three minutes before the shooter opened fire, local officers used their radios to warn that a man, now identified as Thomas Matthew Crooks, the shooter, was on a roof.
 
But that message never made it to agents on the ground or Secret Service sniper team who eventually located and shot Crooks. These gaps in communication are key parts of the Secret Service's internal investigation, as well as several other investigations into that day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WALKER: Holmes Lybrand, thank you. Still to come, Gaza ceasefire and hostage release talks are expected to resume in Egypt this weekend as negotiators are ramping up the pressure to get a deal. We will have a live report from Cairo. 
 
Also, a manhunt is underway in Germany after an attacker armed with a knife killed three people and injured several others at a festival. The details are ahead and newly updated vaccines against COVID-19 will be in pharmacies soon. What experts are saying about it next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[07:18:56]
 
BLACKWELL: Right now, ceasefire talks continue in Cairo and there are already disagreements. An Egyptian official told CNN there are still wide differences before an agreement can be reached over the strategic Philadelphia corridor in southern Gaza. 
 
President Biden called Egyptian and Qatari leaders Friday to discuss the ramifications of a possible deal. 
 
WALKER: It appears a permanent ceasefire past a six-week break is unlikely to happen, but any break would be welcome in Gaza, as thousands were forced to evacuate one of the last remaining humanitarian zones just this week. And this morning, hospital officials revealed more than 45 people were killed across Gaza in early morning attacks. We have team coverage on the negotiations, CNN White House Reporter Camila DeChalus live from Washington, D.C., and CNN's Nada Bashir live in Cairo. Let's start with you, Camila. How is President Biden involved in these negotiations?
 
CAMILA DECHALUS, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, White House officials tell us that President Biden is just being constantly updated on the talks that are taking place in Cairo around securing a ceasefire and hostage deal. Now, just yesterday, Biden had conversations with Qatari and Egyptian leaders about discussing the diplomatic efforts around really securing this deal and how to move forward. But White House officials tell us that they really call these talks taking place in Cairo constructive. 
 
And they're also saying that it really shows that the process is moving forward to finally securing a deal around releasing hostages and securing a permanent or at least temporary ceasefire deal. But it's really important to note that this is something that President Biden has been very adamant about. He has made it clear that what he wants to focus on in his remaining time in office is securing a ceasefire deal and releasing hostages. So, this is something that he's going to be working every day on and White House officials tell us is a top priority for the president.
 
BLACKWELL: Camila Dechalus for us there in Washington. Thank you. Let's go now to CNN's Nada Bashir, who is joining us live from Cairo. Nada, give us the perspective from where you are.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, look, we know that the talks over the last few days have been focused on those so-called bridging proposals put forward by the Biden administration to try and narrow the gaps and disagreements between Israel and Hamas. And as you mentioned, one of those key sticking points is the presence of Israeli troops in the Philadelphia corrido, separating Egypt from Southern Gaza. 
 
Now, according to Israeli Sources and Israeli Delegation has put forth a revised proposal which would see a reduced presence of Israeli troops and a reduced number of military posts on the Philadelphia corridor. We understand, according to sources and according to officials in Hamas, in fact, that a Hamas delegation will be arriving in Cairo on Saturday to hear these proposals from Egyptian mediators regarding the Philadelphia corridor. 
 
But it's important to note that Hamas officials have previously rejected any suggestion of a long-term presence by Israeli troops within the Gaza Strip, particularly on that border And of course, Egyptian officials have in the past, as well, asserted that they have maintained the security of that border area, that they also don't want to see a long-term presence of Israeli troops. But again, this is one of the key sticking points. 
 
This is an area where mediators have been trying to hammer out some sort of compromise, some sort of agreement. But there are other key sticking points, including terms surrounding the release of Palestinian prisoners as part of this agreement and crucially as we have just been hearing, the terms around a permanent ceasefire. Under the first phase of the deal currently on the table, there would be a six-week pause in fighting, which would allow for some peace in Gaza, much-needed calm in Gaza and also the return of some hostages from the Gaza Strip. 
 
But the hope would be that in the second phase, there would be the possibility of a transition to a permanent, lasting ceasefire. Now, that is something that Hamas has been adamant they want to see, a lasting, permanent ceasefire. But we've been hearing from Israeli officials, including the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who spoke to Israeli media in late June, reiterating that while Israel may welcome a temporary pause, that they do want to see a continuation of the war, according to Israeli officials, in order to, in their eyes, fully eradicate Hamas's military capabilities. 
 
And of course, at this stage, there are no indications that Israel's position has changed, despite the U.S. assessment that Hamas has been downgraded to a point where they can no longer pose a military threat to the state of Israel. Remains to be seen whether Hamas will move further, perhaps whether we see progress in these talks taking place over the weekend. But again, Corsair's permanent ceasefire appeared to be one of the crucial and main sticking points that continue to persist.
 <br>[07:23:43]
 
BLACKWELL: Nada Bashir, live in Cairo, thank you. Donald Trump's businesses are raking in millions of dollars from Republican political campaigns, including his own. This morning, converting enthusiasm into personal profit. A CNN investigation is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[07:28:28]
 
WALKER: We are continuing to track breaking news out of Germany. A manhunt is still underway for the suspect in a deadly stabbing attack at a festival in Western Germany. Three people were killed, eight others wounded, five of them seriously. Police say the lone male suspect remains on the run and they do not have a detailed description of the suspect or any indication of a motive at this time. 
 
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy marked Ukraine's Independence Day with a video addressed to his nation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINE PRESIDENT (through translation): 113 days ago, Russia unleashed war against us, including through the Sumy region. It violated not only our sovereign borders, but also the limits of cruelty and common sense. It was endlessly striving for one thing, to destroy us. Instead, today we celebrate the 33rd Independence Day of Ukraine. And whatever the enemy was bringing to our land has now returned to their home. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WALKER: President Biden spoke with Zelensky Friday reaffirming U.S. support for Ukraine. He also announced a new aid package that includes air defense missiles and counter drone equipment. Victor? 
 
BLACKWELL: Well, after four years in office and three campaigns for president, Donald Trump has full control of the Republican Party. Trump's time in politics has also had a major impact on his business ventures. His political allies and his own campaign poured millions into his businesses. CNN's Kyung La looks at how the past eight years have filled Trump's pockets.
 <br>[07:30:05]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: My new book, "Save America," published by Winning Team Publishing, is now available for order.
 
KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): In all the ways, you already know, former President Trump publicly makes money selling books and Bibles.
 
TRUMP: God bless the USA Bible.
 
LAH (voice over): Gold Sneakers.
 
TRUMP: That's the real deal.
 
LAH (voice over): And trading cards.
 
TRUMP: It's called the America First collection.
 
LAH (voice over): It's at Trump properties like Mar-a-Lago, Trump's opulent Florida home, where Republican campaign dollars are pouring into Trump's own pocket. More than 150 congressional candidates and political groups have spent millions at Trump properties and associated businesses, according to a CNN analysis of federal campaign finance data, with 2024 on track to be the biggest year of spending since 2016.
 
The vast majority of the candidates are Republican and most endorsed by Trump.
 
BERNIE MORENO (R), SENATORIAL CANDIDATE, OHIO: A vote for Trump and Moreno is a vote to put America first. LAH (voice over): A clear example is Ohio businessman Bernie Moreno, a political novice who made his fortune selling luxury cars. The same month Moreno announced his run for the U.S. Senate last year, he spent $13,000 on event catering at Trump's Mar-a-Lago.
 
The same day one of the payments was made, Trump posted on Truth Social, "Moreno is a highly respected businessman who was thinking of running for the Senate." Trump endorsed Moreno months later, calling him a MAGA fighter. Two days after the endorsement, Moreno spent $17,000 at Mar-a-Lago. And a month later, $80,000 more on a fundraiser at the private club attended by some in Trump's inner circle.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We asked him to come here to Florida, so we could bring him here to the president's home. So, we could share him with you.
 
LAH (voice over): Moreno is now locked in a competitive battle for Ohio's Senate seat with Trump by his side.
 
TRUMP: He's a hero. He's a winner.
 
KATHLEEN CLARK, LAW PROFESSOR, WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY, ST. LOUIS: That coincidence of this significant spending nearly coinciding with a Trump endorsement doesn't prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that there's been a bribe. That pattern does and should raise questions in the minds of voters about what's really going on here?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The incredible Kari Lake.
 
KARI LAKE (R), SENATORIAL CANDIDATE, ARIZONA: I'll do everything in my power to make sure this man gets back in the White House. We need him now more than ever.
 
LAH (voice over): Another Republican endorsed by Trump is also one of Mar-a-Lago's top political spenders. This year alone, Arizona Senate candidate Kari Lake's campaign spent more than $100,000 on lodging, catering, and facility rentals.
 
Other top spenders at Trump properties include retired football star and former Georgia Republican Senate candidate, Herschel Walker. His campaign spent the most of any congressional candidate in the last decade, nearly $215,000 at Mar-a-Lago. Trump's golf club in West Palm Beach and his Las Vegas hotel.
 
TRUMP: You know, Herschel is not only a Georgia hero, he is an American legend.
 
LAH (voice over): Trump endorsed Walker, who would go on to lose his race. Political groups also drop big money at Trump's businesses. The RNC spending more than $2 million since 2016. But at the top spot by far is Donald Trump himself, whose campaigns and associated political committees have funneled more than $28 million in political contributions to his businesses. From renting his ballroom to his campaign, to using election donations to pay for his private jet, Trump Force One.
 
Trump, the candidate, has been paying Trump the businessman.
 
DAN WEINER, BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE: It's not illegal. The law is that candidates can spend money at their own businesses, provided that the businesses provide real goods or services at a fair market rate. But it certainly raises at least an appearance of self-dealing that is very concerning from a corruption standpoint.
 
LAH (voice over): In a statement, the Trump campaign told CNN, "These allegations are false," adding, "Committees are paying the fair market rate for all venues and services."
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
LAH (on camera): Spokespeople for Bernie Moreno and Herschel Walker did reply to our request for comment, and they say that the Mar-a-Lago fundraisers were wildly successful. Walker adding that he and Trump have known each other for 40 years, and his events had nothing to do with Trump's endorsement.
 
We did reach out to the Kari Lake campaign, but did not hear back. And it is important to note that, despite the criticism you heard in our story, none of this is illegal.
 
Kyung Lah, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
WALKER: Kyung Lah, thank you for that.
 <br>[07:34:51]
 
The U.S. is in the middle of a summer COVID surge, but a new vaccine should be available soon. We will ask an expert when you should get your shot.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: Well, now that the FDA has approved the updated COVID Moderna and Pfizer vaccines, you can expect the shots to be available in the next few days. According to the CDC, a new dominant strain is responsible for 37 percent of the infections in the U.S. over the last couple of weeks.
 
WALKER: Let's bring in cardiologist and V.P. of medical affairs at Hello Heart, Dr Jane Morgan. Hello, Doctor Morgan.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 <br>[07:40:02]
 
DR. JANE MORGAN, VICE PRESIDENT OF MEDICAL AFFAIRS, HELLO HEART: Hello, good morning.
 
WALKER: Thanks for coming in.
 
MORGAN: Good morning.
 
WALKER: You know, I feel like anecdotally, I've been hearing so much about people getting COVID, suspecting that they have COVID.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
MORGAN: That's right.
 
WALKER:  -- had COVID. So, we're hearing about it a lot more. 
 
But regarding this new dominant strain, what should we know about it? How concerned should we be, if at all?
 
MORGAN: Yes. So, this strain, the KP.3.1.1, also the KP.2, 3. They are responsible for about 60 to 65 percent of what we have circulating right now. There is another strain as well, the LB.1. We should be concerned about it, because just in a short period of time, two or three months, it really has become a dominant strain.
 
These are still offshoots of JN.1 for those of you who are really paying molecular attention.
 
WALKER: Yes. Yes.
 
MORGAN: These are still offshoots.
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
MORGAN: And so, still a big part of this Omicron family. And so, our vaccines this year are focused on the JN.1 variant, and these current circulating variants are offshoots of the JN.1. So, we're still expecting them to be good matches.
 
WALKER: OK.
 
BLACKWELL: Damn JN.1.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
MORGAN: That JN.1.
 
BLACKWELL: Can't give rid of. Can't give rid of.
 
WALKER: We'll talk about it always.
 
BLACKWELL: So, let me ask you. The federal government has now brought back free tests, free treatments, free vaccines. Is that indicative of what's expected as we go into the fall and winter, that there is going to be an even greater surge?
 
MORGAN: You know, when we look at that, it's something to really think about. Because at the end of the August, a lot of those free services were ending.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes.
 
MORGAN: And so, people really needed to get in if they were going to get it for free.
 
What we're looking at in the fall is this seasonal variation as it joins all of its other sister viruses, the flu and RSV.
 
But the problem with COVID is we keep waiting on that and we keep having a summer surge as well. So, by the time the vaccines come out, we've been awash in a summer wave. And then, the vaccines actually are late. And so, we've got to really start to think about moving these meetings up off the calendar, moving them up ahead, such that we can get ahead of the summer surge. Kids can be vaccinated before they go to school, and we don't have these variants that continue to evolve. They continue to evolve because we continue to allow ourselves to be exposed. And we have more and more, and we continue to chase this -- chase this ball when we really should be getting ahead of it.
 
I think part of the issue is we keep expecting COVID to finally fall in line with all of its sisters. This will be the year that it does it.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes.
 
MORGAN: And it really isn't. And then, the summer wave this year even started a little earlier.
 
WALKER: What do you say to the people though, you know, including my friends and people at home, are saying, well, look, you know, the symptoms haven't been so bad. We're just going to learn to live with it. It's an endemic now. And do, I really need to get a vaccine?
 
MORGAN: And Amara, the symptoms have been mild, and that's really been the hook, and it's making people feel fairly complacent. But the symptoms can linger. Even if they are mild, they can linger for long periods of time, and I mean weeks and months. Even though they're mild, you won't need hospitalization, you won't need to go to the doctor, but it will really be a drag on the quality of your life.
 
And so, these are all things we have to start to consider with regard to what type of health and what type of society we're going to live in. We have probably about four times as much COVID now as we had just a few months ago.
 
And as far as summer surges, this has been the highest summer surge that we have had so far.
 
The other thing to think about is we keep talking about wastewater. We're measuring wastewater, and our wastewater values are high. But we have to remember that wastewater lags behind the actual viral presence.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes.
 
MORGAN: Because it takes a few days for humans to start to shed the virus into the wastewater. So, remember, whenever we're looking at wastewater, it's actually giving us a reading from a few days before. So, we don't actually know what's coming, and whether or not this wastewater is an accurate indicator whether it will even be higher.
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Dr. Jane Morgan, thank you for helping us understand what is here and what is coming as relates to COVID. WALKER: Thank you. Good to see you, Dr. Morgan.
 
MORGAN: Oh, thanks.
 
WALKER: Well, the calendar might still show August, but it is officially college football season.
 
BLACKWELL: Carolyn Manno is in New York. Carolyn?
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Hey, good morning, guys.
 
You know what? It's already here kicking off across the pond. We have a full day of slate to get you caught up on.
 <br>[07:44:21]
 
We'll be back with sports right after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: A tropical storm warning and flood watches have been issued for Hawaii's Big Island.
 
BLACKWELL: Red flag warnings are in effect for most of the other islands Tropical Storm Hone centers -- the center, rather, of the storm is forecast to wreak havoc as early as this afternoon.
 
CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar has the latest. Allison?
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: That's right, yes.
 
We take a look at the storm itself. Now, unlike a lot of the storms that we talk about in the Atlantic basin here, there is tons of different islands all over the Caribbean where we can get real time data so that we can actually understand what the storm is doing. Is it strengthening? Is it weakening? What direction is it going in?
 
In the Central Pacific, it's a different story. You have Hawaii and Hawaii, and that's pretty much it. So, it means the hurricane hunter missions that fly out here are even more crucial than they are in other basins, because it's the only way we really get real time data.
 
So, the hurricane hunters will take devices like this. This is a dropsonde. Hundreds of them will fall from the plane down into the storm to give us that real time information, temperature, wind speed, direction, pressure, moisture, everything comes from this device.
 
It's got a parachute that pops out from the top that will stabilize it as it falls through the atmosphere, and that's how we get that information. And hurricane hunters flew out in the storm yesterday.
 <br>[07:50:00]
 
More missions are expected this weekend. So, we know this is where it is, but the actual information we get, say the 60-mile-per-hour winds with gusts up to 70, that information comes from those hurricane hunters, and its vital information.
 
Now, this storm in particular is expected to get up to a Category 1 in strength in the next 24 to 48 hours. We have got those Tropical Storm watches and warnings in effect across the islands. Flood watches also in effect, especially the big island. We're talking six to 10 inches of rain.
 
Now, on the one hand, that's good news. 70 percent of Hawaii is under some level of drought conditions. But six to 10 inches of rain, especially in a short amount of time, could also lead to some landslides, mudslides, not to mention flooding potential.
 
The other flip side too is those winds. It may not be necessarily crossing over the islands, but it's going to get close enough that you're going to get some of those strong wind gusts, and that's going to end up causing some fire concerns across some of these areas. That's why you have red flag warnings, and that does include Lahaina, the area that was impacted by the big fire last year.
 
We are also looking at a wind advisory for a lot of these areas, gusts could be over 50 miles per hour. And also, we've talked about rip currents and high surf also going to be a concern for the islands.
 
WALKER: All right. Allison Chinchar, thanks so much.
 
BLACKWELL: Drums, marching bands, Q mall (PH). The college football season is kicking off today.
 
WALKER: And for a second straight year, the action begins across the Atlantic in Dublin, Ireland. Carolyn Manno, joining us now with more. Carolyn.
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: I know. Not what you would think about. Good morning, guys.
 
WALKER: No.
 
MANNO: For those of you who are diehards in the household, brace yourselves. There won't be another weekend without meaningful football being played until Valentine's Day. That is good news for everybody I know.
 
Four games today spanning two oceans and more than 7,000 miles, with tens of thousands of fans making the trip to Dublin to see the 10th- ranked Florida State played Georgia Tech at Aviva Stadium, the home of Ireland's national soccer and rugby team.
 
Some Florida State players getting into the international spirit here with their take on the Irish jig. Well done. For several of these players, you guys, this is the first time that they've actually traveled abroad, but it is a homecoming of sorts for Georgia Tech punter, David Shanahan, who grew up playing Gaelic football in County Kerry in southwest Ireland.
 
If he and met -- admitted that he has had to explain a couple of things to his teammates about this. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID SHANAHAN, PUNTER, GEORGIA TECH: I definitely feel that a lot of questions. Lads and her team didn't know English was the first language in Ireland. It's pretty funny. A lot of questions about food. I think they enjoyed the breakfast so far, but I'm probably just excited to show them the whole culture.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: Irish breakfast, pretty good. Things kicking off at noon Eastern in Dublin. And while football is just starting, we are at the business end of baseball season. The Dodgers, $700 million man, Shohei Ohtani, proving he is a worthy investment, tied in the bottom of the nine bases loaded, showtime, Ohtani launching a game winning walk-off grand slam to beat the Rays.
 
He is only the sixth member of the league's 40-40 club, 40 home runs, 40 stolen bases in a single season.
 
Yankee slugger Aaron Judge is chasing a home run record of his own, two years after hitting 62 home runs and breaking an American League mark. Judge, nearly on pace to do it once again last night against the Rockies, see that (INAUDIBLE) for a fourth straight game. His 49th overall. He is now on pace for 61. The Yankees join to say 1-1/2 games up on the Orioles. Those are examples of players leaving a mark on the field.
 
Lily the bat dog for the Clearwater Threshers, a minor league team for the Philadelphia Phillies, left her mark in an entirely different way. Close your eyes, I think if you're a little bit squeamish.
 
She made her debut here after the third inning, made the most of it, doing the most -- doing nothing she was asked to do. Also, doing her business on the field in the process. The team officially changed bat pups after this, but they say that Lucy is still a valued member of the team.
 
The crowd got a kick out of it, guys. Everybody loves dogs gone wild. I'm not sure. This is pretty rough stuff (INAUDIBLE).
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WALKER: I missed that. I couldn't see well. Was it number one or number two?
 
BLACKWELL: It looked like two from here.
 
WALKER: Was it number two?
 
BLACKWELL: Yes. I mean, you get nervous sometimes.
 
MANNO: I'm going to -- I'm going to see myself out.
 
BLACKWELL: Sometimes when you're nervous, you know.
 
MANNO: Well, just -- I'm going to seed myself out.
 
Do you (INAUDIBLE) -- 
 
WALKER: Yes, come on.
 
MANNO: She is a rookie. She is a rookie.
 
BLACKWELL: I'm scared.
 
WALKER: Sometimes I get nervous, well, what happens?
 
MANNO: I'm sorry. Goodbye.
 
WALKER: Carolyn.
 
BLACKWELL: Carolyn Manno, thank you so much. Yes, we both need to end that conversation.
 
Still to come, Los Angeles honoring the legacy of Kobe Bryant.
 <br>[07:54:28]
 
How the skyline of the city is changing to pay homage to the legend?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: Today, Los Angeles celebrates the legacy of the late NBA star, Kobe Bryant. Tonight, the Ferris wheel at the Santa Monica Pier will be lit up in gold and purple, the colors of course, of the Lakers.
 
WALKER: August 24th is known as Kobe Bryant or Mamba Day, because he wore jersey numbers eight and 24 during his storied career with the team.
 
The 41-year-old NBA legend and his 13-year-old daughter Gianna, were among nine on board a helicopter that crashed in January of 2020.
 
All right, well, "FIRST OF ALL WITH VICTOR BLACKWELL" is coming up next. What do you have, Victor?
 
BLACKWELL: So, we are trying something new right at the top of the show, I watched the historic Kamala Harris accepted speech with a group of black men. Both campaigns are trying to win their votes.
 
I asked them how they rate the speech, whether the vice president addressed their top issues. Who do they think will win if the election were held tomorrow? It's a really in depth, extended conversation, and we're starting the show with that.
 
Plus, I'll speak to a Palestinian American lawmaker, who drafted a speech for the DNC. 
 <br>[08:00:01]
 
She was hoping to speak on stage, but she was denied that opportunity. What her message is now to voters who, I believe that, that issue of the war in Gaza is their top issue.
 
END