Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Tim Walz Accepted Democratic Nomination For Vice President; Donald Trump Complains About Democrats' Convention Jabs; Four Bodies Recovered Wednesday From "Bayesian" Wreckage; Indian Prime Minister Visits Poland Ahead Of Trip To Ukraine; Walz Accepts Democratic Nomination for Vice President; Safety Task Force Created After Junior Doctor's Rape and Murder in West Bengal, India; Pakistani Authorities Arrest Man for Allegedly Spreading Misinformation About July Stabbing Attack Suspect; Taylor Swift Addresses Vienna Terror Plot for the First Time. Aired 2-2:45a ET

Aired August 22, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:41]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to all of you joining us around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Tim Walz's big night. Kamala Harris's V.P. pick delivers a spirited pep talk to close out night three of the Democratic National Convention.
 
Crews find more bodies in the wreckage of the super yacht that sank off the coast of Sicily. 
 
And outrage spills into the streets of India following the rape and murder of a female trainee doctor. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Kim Brunhuber.
 
BRUNHUBER: Democratic delegates are getting their best look yet at their vice presidential nominee Tim Walz, the Minnesota Governor closed out night three of their convention, drawing on his career as a high school teacher and coach and Army National Guardsman. Walz leaned into his progressive accomplishments as governor, including free breakfast and lunch for all public school students and protecting reproductive freedoms. Walz's 17-year-old son, Gus was moved to tears, pointing to the stage and saying, that's my dad. Walz told delegates, this election is all about freedom. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D), U.S. VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: When Republicans use the word freedom, they mean that the government should be free to invade your doctor's office. Corporations free to pollute your air and water. And banks free to take advantage of customers. 
 
But when we, Democrats, talk about freedom, we mean the freedom to make a better life for yourself and the people that you love. Freedom to make your own healthcare. And yes, your kids' freedom to go to school without worrying about being shot dead in the hall. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Delegates also heard from former President Bill Clinton, who's spoken at every Democratic convention since 1976. He told the crowd, Kamala Harris stands for we the people, while Donald Trump believes in me, myself and I.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL CLINTON, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The next time you hear him, don't count the lies, count the Is. His vendettas, his vengeance, his complaints, his conspiracies. He's like one of those tenors opening up before he walks out on stage like I did, trying to get his lungs open by saying, me, me, me, me, me,.
 
When Kamala Harris is president, every day will begin with you, you, you, you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: And Oprah Winfrey brought the house down with her surprise appearance. She praised Kamala Harris as the embodiment of truth, honor and joy, and she asked voters to choose common sense over nonsense. 
 
All right, we have more now on day three of the Democratic National Convention from CNN's MJ Lee in Chicago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Minnesota Governor Tim Walz delivering the keynote speech of the evening, the third night of the Democratic National Convention, accepting the vice presidential nomination from the Democratic Party as we knew he would do. 
 
He leaned into his biography, knowing that this was going to be one of the biggest audiences he would have for certain before election day, and he wanted to introduce himself fully knowing that most people across America simply do not know who he is, he brought on stage people who have known him for years, who could speak to his character and testify to the Tim Walz that they have known for many years. 
 
Here's a little bit of what he had to say about his background. 
 
WALZ: You know, you might not know it, but I haven't given a lot of big speeches like this, but I have given a lot of pep talks. It's the fourth quarter. We're down a field goal, but we're on offense and we've got the ball. We're driving down the field, and boy, do we have the right team. 
 <br>[02:05:07]
 
LEE: Now, one person who was not in the arena tonight was, of course, Vice President Kamala Harris. Her team really kept her schedule light today, knowing that she would take all of the time that she wanted today to really focus on her own speech. Accepting the presidential nomination from her party tomorrow evening, the final night of the Democratic National Convention. 
 
We know from speaking to her advisers that she has been spending the day really honing in on the delivery of that speech. I was told by one adviser that she has wanted to sort of think through how every sentence of that speech tomorrow night would land to the audience here in the United Center. 
 
But one thing that she did make sure that she did tonight was to give a call to her running mate, Tim Walz and wish him luck before he made the speech. This speech, of course, was the speech that the vice president herself was supposed to give to accept her party's nomination for the vice presidency. But that all, of course, changed about a month ago.
 
MJ Lee, CNN in Chicago.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: And to Los Angeles now, and Michael Genovese, the president of the Global Policy Institute at Loyola Marymount University. Thank you so much for being here with us again. 
 
So, this was Walz's opportunity to introduce himself on a national stage. How'd he do? 
 
MICHAEL GENOVESE, PRESIDENT OF THE GLOBAL POLICY INSTITUTE, LOYOLA MARYMOUNT UNIVERSITY: Well, he did very well, judging by the crowd at the arena, but I think he also did well nationally. He came off as the kind of common man hero, a Frank Capra, kind of character, very genuine, relatable, likable, plain spoken and clear spoken. 
 
His touching moment with his son. You mentioned it, his son, Gus, who has learning disability. The young man carefully stood up and going, that's my dad, that's my dad. The kind of open love that you saw between father and son was actually the most touching part of the whole last three days. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, absolutely. I mean, you can see by the reaction that's really resonated with people. 
 
You know, we saw Oprah Winfrey, another moment that resonated with people, another star studded night as we've seen all week. It seems the Democrats are really leaning into celebrity and pop culture, maybe hoping to target young voters who often don't vote. Do you think that will bear fruit? 
 
GENOVESE: You know, you're right. Oprah brought the wow factor and she's relatable. Kind of like Walz is very relatable, people like both of them. And I think in part, you know, Democrats are really focusing on young people. They have social influencers at the convention, and they're really trying to focus a lot on that. They need to bring them back into the fold the way Obama did, and make that part of the old Obama coalition revisited. 
 
She talked about decency. Used the line you use common sense versus nonsense was very effective. Optimism versus cynicism. Spoke of values and character. And one of her great line was about the sweet promise of tomorrow over the bitter return to yesterday. She was a great cheerleader for the -- for the Democrats. Also a great cheerleader with Stevie Wonder, who was there singing higher ground. I mean, that, to me, was one of the highlights he brought down the house. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, you touched on, sort of the themes that they've been really hammering on, sort of that idea of the future going forward, the idea of hope and joy, versus that sort of darker, you know idea of the future that the Republicans have been looking at. 
 
Let's compare the two. I mean, so far, in terms of viewers, the Democratic Convention has so far outdrawn the Republicans by quite a bit. Contrast sort of the energy, the humor and so on with what we've seen at the Republican convention so far. What do you see? 
 
GENOVESE: Well, you know, the Democrats brought in a lot of heavyweights, and they had the heavyweights to bring in. You've seen both Clintons, both Obamas, star quality figures. Pink will be singing tomorrow night. 
 
The Republicans don't have that kind of bullpen to draw on, and so they went for, surprisingly, a bunch of wrestlers, kind of make believe macho guys. And there was this great contrast between that sort of Republican version of wounded masculinity and a new version that the Democrats are trying to present, Walz as the regular guy, the guy who was neighborly and will help you. 
 
And the Democrats have used a lot of humor to try to get at that, there's nothing, nothing that hurts Donald Trump more personally than to be laughed at. And the Democrats did a great job with a lot of laugh lines.
 
Last night, Michelle Obama was great. Barack Obama was funny tonight, again, a lot of joking. Congressman Jeffries and a number of Democrats hit a lot of laugh lines, and words can have impact, and humor used effectively can puncture the pompous and the puffed up, and that's Donald Trump. So they were really going right after Trump.
 <br>[02:10:20]
 
BRUNHUBER: I want to ask you about something that's an issue that's sort of been percolating on the side, sort of off the stage. The pro- Palestinian group uncommitted is now staging a sit in because they say they've been denied a speaking spot at the convention. They're demanding a Palestinian American voice be featured on stage.
 
Considering how much passion this issue generates, especially among young Democrats, I mean, is that a mistake here from the party? 
 
GENOVESE: I think the Democrats are worried about that such a thing might backfire on them, and modern conventions are heavily staged. They're infomercials more than they are anything else. And if you don't control the content, you run the risk of something collapsing.
 
And so, I think the Democrats are very conscious of that, and don't want to take the risk. If something might be said, some conflict might brew, some trouble might ensue. 
 
And so, the question is, is it -- is it more beneficial to have them in the tent or out of the tent? And the Democrats apparently have not yet decided whether they will have a spokesperson available tomorrow night to speak.
 
BRUNHUBER: Speaking of tomorrow night, Kamala Harris, well, I guess it's tonight since we're Thursday here in the east. Kamala Harris is going to make the keynote speech. So, what are you expecting from her? 
 
I mean, in the contest that we've already seen -- the context of what we've seen, how -- what does she have to do here? 
 
GENOVESE: We know they have paved the way and smoothed the path for her, so the door is wide open for her. What she needs to do is reintroduce herself to a country that knows her but doesn't know her well, and so she needs to set the narrative and basically explain to the American public who she really is. This is her best opportunity to do that. Donald Trump will try to do a counter version of that by criticizing her and attacking her, but this is her chance. She'll have center stage.
 
And if she can pull a big win over in the speech tomorrow night, she might be able to sustain that for quite a while. There's only 75 days left before the election, and so, momentum is going to be a big thing. She can really boost her chances if she does a great job tomorrow night or tonight, actually.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, all right, we'll leave it there. Again, good to talk to you, Michael Genovese in Los Angeles, thanks so much. 
 
Meanwhile, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and his running mate J.D. Vance are making their way through several swing states, they're trying to draw attention away from the Democrats' party in Chicago, but in North Carolina, Wednesday, Trump made it clear he's watching the DNC as well. 
 
CNN's Phil Mattingly has that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Former President Donald Trump's advisers have been very clear over the course of this week, they wanted to counter program the Democratic National Convention, and they wanted to do it in policy focused and in some cases smaller venues, to try and keep the former president focused on policy issues. 
 
The former president clearly aware of that and not necessarily a big fan, at least based on what he was saying here in Asheboro, North Carolina on Wednesday of the third stop of a swing state blitz for the former president and his running mate, and making clear he's paying some attention to what's going on in Chicago. Watch.
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Did you see Barack Hussein Obama last night take little shots? He was taking shots at your president, and so was Michelle. You know, they always say, sure, please stick to policy. Don't get personal. And yet they're getting personal all night long these people. Do I still have to stick to policy?
 
MATTINGLY: Now, the event here was supposed to be focused on national security. Certainly, there were discussions and remarks about national security interspersed throughout the other things the former president talked about, but he made abundantly clear that he is frustrated by the internal conversations, his advisers are trying to stress to him not to make it personal, not to attack Kamala Harris by name, trying to basically keep him in control as one adviser was telling me earlier this week. 
 
He will be able to test that out again on Thursday and Friday, going to Arizona and Nevada, obviously, two other critical swing states. The campaign is also working towards, though, right now, a potential endorsement from Robert F. Kennedy Jr., it's currently under discussion. It's potentially happening on Friday in Arizona. Both candidates will be there. Then that would be a very consequential moment for the campaign and for the former president, perhaps more so than anything he does in any of these swing states over the course of the coming days.
 
Phil Mattingly, CNN, Asheboro, North Carolina.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Indian Prime Minister -- India's Prime Minister is preparing to head to Ukraine just weeks after having this personal moment with Russian President Vladimir Putin, we'll discuss how that meeting could go over with Kyiv. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[02:17:21]
 
BRUNHUBER: Crews have just resumed their search for the last missing person from the luxury yacht that sank off the coast of Sicily, emergency workers recovered the remains of four missing people on Wednesday, one other body was located, but hasn't been recovered yet, and their names haven't been released. 
 
A body recovered earlier this week is thought to be that of the onboard chef. 15 people were rescued.
 
CNN's Barbie Latza Nadeau is covering this live from Porticello, Sicily. So, Barbie take us through the latest.
 
BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: Yes, you know, I mean, the divers just went out to resume this daunting search. You know, they can only stay underwater about 10-12, minutes at a time, and they're in very complicated debris field, because inside this luxury yacht there's all manner of electric cables and other things that were in the yacht. 
 
So, they were able to recover four bodies yesterday, we watched them bring those body bags in sort of a grim scene behind us here, and they did locate where one body is. 
 
Now, the big thing is bringing that back, which we expect them to be able to do this morning, if all the search goes well, but then there's still one missing person, they've got to dive deep into this sunken ship in order to try to find that last remaining person, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Appreciate that, Barbie Nadeau, thanks so much. 
 
Russia says it has repelled a new Ukrainian incursion attempt at the border region of Bryansk, its neighbors the Kursk region, where Ukraine's military is still advancing. Ukrainian battalion commander tell CNN that Russian troops are putting up more of a fight. They're ambushing Ukraine's forces and "No longer surrender by the hundreds." He also says Russian forces have brought in more artillery and are using it more frequently, but aren't hitting their targets. 
 
Now, satellite images show Russian forces are digging trenches around a small village just 12 kilometers south of the Kursk nuclear power plant.
 
And for the first time, Ukraine says its forces are using U.S. made weapons inside Russia as they target makeshift pontoon bridges on a key river in the Kursk region. 
 
Meanwhile, Ukrainian troops are trying to defend a key city in eastern Ukraine with Russian forces advancing faster than expected. New Video shows defense forces launching drones at Russian troops in the Donetsk region as Ukraine prepares for a Russian attack on the city of Pokrovsk. 
 
Thousands of civilians are being urged to leave now while they still have a chance, local officials warn that things will only get worse as the fighting intensifies. Ukraine's president says his country needs all the aid it can get. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The front line our positions primarily in the Pokrovsk direction, our Donetsk region. We understand the enemy's moves, and we are strengthening our defenses. A review of ammunition supplies has been conducted. It's very important that our partners fully meet their commitments regarding every package and all our agreements. This is fundamental for defense. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:20:21] 
 
BRUNHUBER: India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi is preparing to visit Ukraine just weeks after his controversial trip to Moscow. Right now, Modi is in Poland and will be meeting Polish leaders in the
 
 coming hours before heading to Ukraine on Friday. The Indian prime minister visited Moscow last month, where he was seen hugging Russian President Vladimir Putin. Ukraine strongly condemned that trip, which coincided with a deadly Russian strike on a children's hospital in Ukraine. 
 
All right, for more, we're joined now by CNN's Marc Stewart from Beijing. So, Mark, take us through what we can expect from this visit, and the importance of this visit to Poland and Ukraine in the context of the war.
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, Kim, let's look at this relationship specifically between India and Ukraine. It is complicated on all fronts, from an economic standpoint, from a political standpoint and a military standpoint, and we'll dive into that a little bit more in just a moment. 
 
But first, I do want to show you some new video we received in the last few hours of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arriving in Poland. He will be meeting with top Polish officials. He spoke in Warsaw to members of Poland's Indian community, which is actually quite sizable, and he talked about the broader geopolitical landscape that the region is facing, especially as he prepares to visit Ukraine, saying that India is stressing a message of diplomacy and dialog. He went on to say that India was a big advocate of permanent peace in the region. 
 
This visit to Ukraine after Poland is certainly one that has been much anticipated. As you alluded to earlier, Narendra Modi met with officials in Moscow. It's a visit that received a lot of condemnation. 
 
This visit to Ukraine is coming because of a direct invitation by Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. These two nations have had diplomatic ties since the early 1990s but this is obviously a now much more complicated chapter, and let me give you some context as to why this is so complicated. 
 
First of all, as we have seen, India has called for a ceasefire in Ukraine, but it has not condemned Russia's attacks. It has not necessarily denounced the invasion. It has also abstained from all resolutions on Ukraine at the United Nations. 
 
It also enjoys a very strong economic relationship with Russia, particularly when it comes to military equipment. It's able to buy Russian crude oil at a discounted price, which is a big boost to Russia after it's essentially been cut off from the West during this wartime effort. 
 
Yet, at the same time, we've also seen India provide humanitarian assistance to Ukraine. These two nations also do a lot of business, particularly when it comes to trade. 
 
India buys grain, cereals from India -- from Ukraine. We've seen the reverse as well with India exporting things such as pharmaceuticals to Ukraine. In fact, during the pandemic, India or Ukraine rather, provided a -- India provided a lot of medicine to Ukraine during the pandemic. Ukraine has been a place where Indian students have gone to study medicine. 
 
So, there is a very storied history between these two nations. Based off what we are hearing from analysts, having from experts, a big point of conversation will be the stance of India toward this conflict in the United Nations, and for its abstention from voting on some of these resolutions condemning Russia's invasion. 
 
Kim, I should point out that these two leaders have met before, before this official visit, they met twice on the sidelines of G7 summits, including this past June in Italy, but this will be a formal face to face meeting. So, perhaps, Kim, will take on some more important some more relevance. Have some more teeth, if you will. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, we'll be watching for that. Marc Stewart live in Beijing. Thanks so much. 
 
Mediators are still trying to push for a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal with more talks expected in Cairo this weekend. The White House says U.S. President Joe Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke on the phone Wednesday on the ongoing diplomatic efforts to de-escalate tensions in the region. 
 <br>[02:25:04]
 
Vice President Kamala Harris also joined the call. A key sticking point in the negotiations is the Philadelphi Corridor along the Gaza- Egypt border which Israeli forces seized in May, Israeli media has reported that Israel would withdraw from the areas as part of the agreement, but Netanyahu's office calls the report incorrect. 
 
Now, this also appears to contradict the U.S. Secretary of State's comments. Antony Blinken had said Netanyahu agreed to the proposed troop withdrawal as part of the bridging proposal. 
 
Thousands of people are fleeing southern Gaza after Israel's military ordered new evacuation orders. A CNN analysis shows that in the past month, the IDF has reduced the humanitarian zone in Gaza by 38 percent, that's just over 10 percent of the Enclave's total area. It's left Palestinians with hardly anywhere safe to go. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IBRAHIM EL-KHALIDI, DISPLACED PALESTINIAN (through translator): We haven't been able to sleep for three days, wherever you go, there is bombing. This is the seventh time I've been displaced. We've had enough. Find us a solution. We can't bear it any longer. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile, Gaza officials say two people were killed and 15 wounded, 10 of them children in an Israeli air strike on a school in central Gaza on Wednesday. The IDF claims Hamas was using the school as a command center, but didn't provide any evidence. The U.S. carrier strike group arrived in the Middle East on Wednesday
 
 as the region braces for a potential Iranian attack on Israel. The defense secretary ordered the USS Abraham Lincoln's move earlier this month after Iran vowed to retaliate for the assassination of Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran. Iran's U.N. mission now says a response must be, "Carefully calibrated to avoid derailing the Gaza ceasefire talks."
 
All right, ahead, Coach Walz signs flying high at the Democratic National Convention. The Minnesota Governor shares his world with America as he accepts his party's nod for vice president. We'll have more on that coming up. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:00]
 
BRUNHUBER: On day three of the Democratic National Convention, the party's vice presidential nominee introduced himself to the nation. Minnesota Governor Tim Walz, a former National Guardsman, public school teacher and football coach, revved up the crowd with his Midwestern dad persona and he took aim at the Republican agenda, calling it weird which was the term he popularized in recent weeks.
 
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton also took the stage, telling Americans they have a clear choice, Kamala Harris who is for the people or "the other guy who is about me, myself and I." And the Democratic ticket also got a surprise assist from American media mogul Oprah Winfrey, who described Harris as the best of America. Now, they made many bold statements throughout the evening, so CNN's Daniel Dale did some fact-checking. Here he is.
 
DANIEL DALE, CNN SENIOR REPORTER: I counted just two flat false claims the whole night, but I think they're both important false claims because both were on a central subject of Democrat's attacks and that is 'Project 2025', a conservative think tank proposals for a next Republican administration. Listen to this claim from Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester of Delaware about Project 2025 and former President Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. LISA BLUNT ROCHESTER, (D-DE): He has, with his friends, said the quiet parts out loud. But not only said them out loud, he wrote a book about it. What's it called? Project 2025.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DALE: That is false. Trump did not write Project 2025. The project's big policy document, published by the Heritage Foundation think tank lists dozens of people as authors, editors, contributors. Donald Trump is not among them. A Project 2025 spokesman told me tonight, no candidate was involved with the drafting of the document.
 
Now, it is fair to say Trump has extensive ties to Project 2025, and CNN has reported that more than half of those authors, editors and contributors worked at some point in his administration. But that's different than saying Trump actually wrote it. Now, let's also play something that Colorado's Governor Jared Polis said about what's in that Project 2025 document.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. JARED POLIS, (D-CO): Page 451 says the only legitimate family is a married mother and father, where only the father works.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DALE: That is also false. Project 2025 does not say there is only one kind of legitimate family, let alone say that families in which a mother works outside the home is illegitimate. A Heritage Foundation spokeswoman, who is a working mom herself, told me tonight the governor's claim is a lie. Now, if you read the page the governor mentioned, you'll see it does express a preference for a certain kind of family.
 
It says, "Families comprised of a married mother, father and their children are the foundation of a healthy society." It then goes on to criticize Biden policies that supposedly subsidize single motherhood and focus on LGBT equity. You can obviously debate all of that, but nowhere does Project 2025 say a family is not legitimate if the mom has a job.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Still to come, Taylor Swift addresses her canceled concerts in Austria after police stopped a terror attack from taking place. Look at what she says was most important at that time, just ahead. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:35:13]
 
BRUNHUBER: The outrage over a junior doctor's rape and murder in India earlier this month is growing with thousands of doctors vowing to keep on protesting and demanding justice. India's supreme court has set up a Hospital Safety Task Force recommendations to make medical establishments safer, but junior doctors say it is not enough and sweeping reforms are needed. Medical associations are calling for the case to be fast tracked through the courts. So far, a police volunteer has been arrested and India's federal police have taken over the investigation.
 
Dr. Amisha Maroo, a junior doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences joins us now live from New Delhi. Thank you so much for being here with us. I know you've just finished working. I want to get your -- just how you reacted when you heard about the murder of this young doctor?
 
DR. AMISHA MAROO, ALL INDIA INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, NEW DELHI: Good -- good -- greetings, everyone. So this is not a new thing for us because we listen -- we have listened to this in news every now and then. And for us, this -- the thing which has extended to the murder and rape was a very serious thing. We have often heard about harassment cases on doctors and assault cases on doctors, but this was something which has shaken us from inside. And we all were very sad and disappointed, and we are feeling very de-motivated and helpless for our future.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah. You yourself have joined the many doctors who have been on strike over this issue. You've just gone back to work for certain things. But there have been marches and protests. It seems to have really galvanized so many in the country. What do you -- what do you make of the reaction that's followed this?
 
MAROO: Yeah. We had to tell everyone about the case and then the need for the Central Protection Act for doctors. And now, it is high time that we need to ensure proper safety and proper security in the workplace environment for doctors. And I think we have gained enough support from all over the citizens and all the doctors are united today in India for this cause.
 
BRUNHUBER: You touched on this not being a new phenomenon, but you yourself are a fairly new doctor. So, take us through sort of how it is exactly for a young doctor, a female doctor in India, to work in these conditions. I mean, you spoke of harassment, for instance. Take us through what people are experiencing?
 
MAROO: Yeah. So exactly, see, I work in anesthesia and ICU critical care. So we are bound to break some bad news to the patient and you -- the patient attendants have to have trust in us that we have done our very best work to save the patient. But then, there are instances in which we are not able to save the patient, and we have to break the bad news. But then sometimes, the patient are not able to take it or whatever, that is the emotional outburst is presented in the form of some violence or assault or throttling in workplace on duty doctor and that is not right at all. So that's what has happened, and yes.
 
BRUNHUBER: One of the guidelines issued by the West Bengal government calls for minimizing night duty for women. But many people fear that that will just even further reduce women's participation in the workforce in India, which is already very low.
 
MAROO: Exactly -- exactly my point that something like these measures will not help anyone. Today, since women are in a developing country like India, women are day by day increasing in many sectors of work like science and by doctors, and reducing the work hours in night and restricting their duties will only lead to -- will not lead to any development of India. So, we need to protect the -- instead, we need to protect the environment in which the doctor has to work, and that is the basic right of every doctor, be it female or male.
 
That should not be the case that if a female has to work in night shift, then they have to be restricted because of -- we don't -- we cannot provide safety. You should provide safety; we are ready to work.
 
BRUNHUBER: So let's talk about what needs to be done. India's supreme court created a Hospital Safety Task Force to help make hospitals and medical establishments safer for staff. Many doctors say they're not satisfied with that, so why is that not enough? And what else needs to be done do you think?
 
MAROO: I am studying in AIIMS, which is a premier central institute in India, but this is not the case with every institute or every hospital in India.
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
We have many level of healthcare like state healthcare, district healthcare, and even in villages, we have many hospitals. But, if we are bound to work there, then we have to be provided proper security as in proper doctor duty room should be there. CCTV cameras should be there. Security personnel should be there in daytime and night time. And if at all, some violence or harassment is taking place at workplace, then prompt punishment should be taken and prompt execution of the offender should be taken. We just want that.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah. Sounds like the very least that that you deserve. Really appreciate hearing from you Dr. Amisha Maroo in New Delhi. Thank you so much.
 
MAROO: Thank you so much.
 
BRUNHUBER: Pakistani officials have arrested a man accused of spreading misinformation about a July stabbing attack in the U.K. that resulted in the deaths of three young girls. Far-right crowds violently clashed with police in England amid false claims that a Muslim teen carried out the attack. Officials in Pakistan say the same information was spread online by their suspect, who allegedly claims his article was based on information he didn't fact-check. Police tell CNN, the website actually posted the article, usually features popular stories from the U.S., the U.K., and other places to generate ad revenue. After the riots, the suspect told police he deleted the story and issued an immediate apology.
 
Singer Taylor Swift is opening up about the thwarted terror plot in Austria, which forced the cancellation of multiple concerts earlier this month. Police arrested three teens in connection with the planned attacks on the venue where Swift was set to perform. Finding one of them was to be an ISIS sympathizer who had been radicalized online. Swift released a statement online saying in part, "The reason for the cancellations filled me with a new sense of fear and a tremendous amount of guilt because so many people had planned on coming to those shows." But I was also so grateful to the authorities because, thanks to them, we were grieving concerts and not lives. My priority was finishing our European tour safely, and it is with great relief that I can say we did that.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. I'm Kim Brunhuber. "World Sport" is next. Then I will be back in 15 minutes with more "CNN Newsroom." Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)