Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: CNN International: Blinken to Saudi Arabia to Push for Halt to Fighting; NYT: Former Chief of Staff says Trump Fits Definition of Fascist; Giuliani Ordered to Give Assets to Election Workers he Defamed; AI Regulation Key Issues Globally and in Use; Treasure Trove of Ancient Artifacts Pops up in Poland. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired October 23, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: This is the scene in Southern Lebanon, where an Israeli strike hit the center of the City of Tyre. It is 
 
 04:00 p.m. there right now, and it's 05:00 p.m. here in Dubai. I'm Eleni Giokos, and this is "Connect the World". Also happening over the next two 
 
 hours, Russian President Vladimir Putin hosting the BRICS Summit to show the world he is not as isolated as some Western countries might think.
 
And then Kamala Harris gearing up for a CNN Town Hall, she will make her case to convince undecided voters less than two weeks away from the U.S. 
 
 presidential election. Plus, the UAE is working to implement artificial intelligence into everyday life. We'll bring you an interview with one of 
 
 the key technology players in the region.
 
Hi, welcome to the show, and I want to quickly check in on how the markets are going to open in about 30 minutes from now. U.S. futures all showing 
 
 negative starts to the day all down quite significantly. We'll touch on those overall numbers in about 30 minutes from now.
 
And we start in Lebanon, where Israel's military says it has killed three Hezbollah commanders and the group's drone experts in the past 48 hours. 
 
 Those reported deaths coming as Israel attacks what it says are more Hezbollah targets around Beirut and in Southern Lebanon.
 
This is the scene from Tyre, one of several areas where the IDF issued evacuation orders today. It's one of Lebanon's main tourist destinations. 
 
 And in news, reminiscence of Gaza, the head of a Lebanese doctors group says five hospitals in the country are now completely shut down and another 
 
 22 partially damaged from Israeli air strikes.
 
He also says some 150 health care workers have been killed. U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken is in Saudi Arabia after his meetings in Israel 
 
 with prime ministers, the prime minister and other top officials. And he went directly there, after scrapping a planned visit to Jordan.
 
Blinken has been meeting with the Saudi Foreign Minister. Before leaving Israel, he said Israel has achieved most of its military objectives in 
 
 Gaza, and must now turn that into a quote, strategic success. Blinken's departure from Israel was delayed by this.
 
Air raid sirens rang out in Central and Northern Israel. Hezbollah says it fired rockets at a military base housing an Israeli Intel unit. The rockets 
 
 were intercepted and no injuries have been reported. Matthew Chance is connecting us this hour from Jerusalem, and we've also got Oren Liebermann 
 
 standing by at the Pentagon for us.
 
Matthew, I want to start with you. Let's begin with the latest Israeli air strikes in Lebanon. What more can you tell us?
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, that they're continuing and that it's the City of Tyre in Southern Lebanon which is 
 
 being affected most intensely at the moment, with multiple air strikes being reported in the center of that ancient city causing a widespread 
 
 damage.
 
Earlier, of course, the Israelis issued a declaration, an order for the residents of certain areas of Tyre to evacuate, saying that they were going 
 
 to carry out these kinds of air strikes against what they say are Hezbollah targets in the vicinity, warning people to stay away from anybody who was a 
 
 member of Hezbollah or connected with Hezbollah as well.
 
This all part of course of an ongoing and expanding Israeli military campaign to target the militia of Hezbollah in Beirut and in areas of 
 
 Southern Lebanon and Eastern Lebanon as well. Hospitals, medical workers have been targeted, as have financial institutions affiliated with 
 
 Hezbollah. And of course, dozens of people have been killed and injured in these ongoing strikes. This is one of the things that I think that Antony 
 
 Blinken, the U.S. Secretary of State, was urging the Israelis to pull back on.
 
But clearly you know that military campaign in Lebanon as well as in Gaza, is continuing despite that visit the 11th by the U.S. Secretary of State.
 
GIOKOS: Oren, Antony Blinken, meantime, is talking about a post war future in the Middle East, even as the war rages on. What does he hope to 
 
 accomplish in Saudi Arabia and of course, the trip that in the Middle East as a whole over the past few days?
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Well, Secretary of State Antony Blinken just left Israel. Crucially, it's worth noting that he 
 
 canceled a stop in Jordan and then made his way straight to Saudi Arabia, where he met with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. He also met with 
 
 Saudi's Foreign Minister.
 
Blinken is trying to lay the groundwork, or perhaps expand the groundwork, for the day after the war, but as you point out rightly so. First, Israel 
 
 has not yet put forward a day after the war plan either for Gaza. Well, it has for Lebanon, at least to some extent. Whether that has gained any 
 
 traction in the region is a very different question.
 
But Blinken is also trying to essentially get Arab countries on board and to put pressure on Israel and on Hamas and Hezbollah to get to the point 
 
 where they're ready to say we're ready for a cease fire. So that's part of Blinken's goal here. The readout of the meetings didn't explicitly mention 
 
 Saudi-Israel normalization.
 
That has been a broader goal of the United States. Although that seems incredibly far away, because it requires a pathway towards a State of 
 
 Palestine and a two-state solution. The Saudis have made that abundantly clear, and the fact that it didn't -- wasn't mentioned in the readout, 
 
 perhaps give you -- gives you a sense of how remote the U.S. sees that possibility at the moment.
 
Blinken talked about the need now to move towards an end to the war in Gaza, and so that Israel has a sort of strategic success here. That's a 
 
 line we've heard from the U.S. in the past, but the difficulties here are very much numerous as Blinken tries to make some sort of progress here.
 
And of course, weighing on all of this is the fact that Israel is expected to carry out a retaliation against Iran, perhaps as soon as the coming 
 
 days, especially now that a U.S. fat air defense batteries up and running in Israel, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: Yeah, that's a really important point. Is what Israel's next move is going to be in terms of retaliation, and how that could perhaps be far 
 
 more escalatory in the region as a whole. Can you give me a sense Iran of what the narrative is around that right now? There's a big concern of what 
 
 this ultimate cycle of returning fire, as this continues.
 
LIEBERMANN: Israel has made it abundantly clear that they will strike Iran in response to the ballistic missile barrage from October 1. The question, 
 
 of course, is when and what's the target here? President Joe Biden alluded just a couple of days ago that he knows the targets. He knows Israel's 
 
 plans, but he's not going to simply put that forward here.
 
It is worth noting that any retaliation, any fighting between Israel and Iran, inherently involves Saudi Arabia to some extent. So that perhaps 
 
 another reason that Blinken was there in Saudi meeting with Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman and others in the foreign minister, the U.S. has tried 
 
 to limit the scope of Israel's response.
 
The U.S. trying to get past this cycle of attack retaliation. Iran has made it also abundantly clear that any further attack on sovereign. Iran will 
 
 involve another response, another attack on Israel. So that's the cycle that the U.S. is trying to get away from, but that, in and of itself, is 
 
 very difficult.
 
So, whatever the U.S. can do to understand and perhaps limit the scope of Israel's attack on Iran, that is something Blinken is very interested in 
 
 doing here.
 
GIOKOS: All right. Matthew Chance, Oren Liebermann, great to see you both. Thank you so much for that update. Well, while the conflict escalates in 
 
 the Middle East, President Vladimir Putin is hosting the BRICS Summit in Russia, where he says the formation of a new multi polar world order is now 
 
 underway.
 
During his opening speech at the summit, Mr. Putin said the process of shifting the global balance of power away from the U.S. led west is taking 
 
 place as a number of countries stand behind him, leaders from China, India, Brazil, Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran and the UAE are among the political 
 
 heavyweights attending the three-day gathering in Russia.
 
And as you can see, images of that group photo coming through. We've got CNN's Clare Sebastian joining us now from London for an update. Look, 
 
 Vladimir Putin is making bold claims right now, but BRICS leaders have a wide range of viewpoints and frankly, interests.
 
A reality that observers say truly limits the ability to send a unified message, especially the kind Putin may desire. What can you tell us about 
 
 what BRICS ultimately is trying to achieve, whether it's economic formation here or whether there's also political elements?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Eleni, I think that's true. I think on the one hand, Russia has achieved, certainly a win. That family 
 
 photo really does show that it is not isolated on the global stage, that it is taking its place, really, at the center of this grouping, which 
 
 represents about 45 percent of the global population.
 
So that certainly plays extremely well at home. But as you say, if you look closer at that photo, there are nuances there. There are a number of those 
 
 countries that do still seek to maintain ties with the West.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
India is a crucial example, and we've heard, Modi toughening his rhetoric when it comes to Ukraine, urging Russia, in a bilateral meeting with Putin 
 
 yesterday, to accelerate moves towards peace. We have Egypt as a new member of the BRICS that receives more than a billion dollars a year in U.S. 
 
 military aid.
 
The UAE hosts thousands of U.S. troops at a military base on its territory. So, it's not clear cut. This isn't an uncomplicated family that they are 
 
 presenting here, but I think on in terms of practical deliverables that they're looking for from this summit, the financial system, greater sort of 
 
 cooperation in terms of finances.
 
And economics is one thing that Russia really is trying to build consensus behind, and in particular, trying to erode the power of the U.S. dollar. 
 
 Take a listen to Putin on that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT: We do not refuse, we do not fight the dollar, but if we are not allowed to work with it, what should we do? Then 
 
 we are forced to look for other alternatives, which is what is happening? We, while striving for cooperation must still understand that the longer, 
 
 we live and work by someone else's rules and on someone else's platforms, the longer this transition to a new and more just economic and financial 
 
 system will last.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So that's pretty typical rhetoric that we hear from the Russian President, that this change, as he sees it, that's underway in the world 
 
 order really has nothing to do with Russia. This is the work of the West. But look, if you look at the declaration, the Kazan declaration, that was 
 
 just adopted by these countries.
 
It speaks in lofty terms about adherence to the U.N. Charter Human Rights, you know, the protection of democracy, but there are significant emissions. 
 
 It calls for an immediate cease fire in Gaza, but goes nowhere close to doing that in Ukraine, it calls for freedom of navigation in the Red Sea, 
 
 but not the Black Sea, where Russia has stepped up its attacks on port infrastructure and civilian vessels recently.
 
And certainly, now that Iran is a member of the BRICS. We see a lot of condemnation of Israel in that declaration as well. So, I think those are 
 
 the nuances, and this group is still sort of striving to find its identity, is even as it tries to expand, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: All right. Clare Sebastian, thank you so much. Well, while President Vladimir Putin hosts BRICS leaders, we're following another 
 
 development, development in Russia that has the west on edge. Just a short time ago, U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told the media, the U.S. has 
 
 evidence that North Korean troops are now in Russia.
 
He says, quote, what exactly they're doing is left to be seen. North Korea and Russia have forged increasingly friendly ties since Moscow's invasion 
 
 of Ukraine in 2022. The U.S. does not believe North Korean troops have reached Ukraine, but their movements have generated deep concern of 
 
 potentially serious escalation in the conflict.
 
With time running out until Election Day and the race excruciatingly close, Donald Trump is doubling down on his attacks on immigrants, the media and 
 
 his rival, Kamala Harris. He launched a new batch of personal attacks at Harris at a rally on Tuesday, asking, without evidence to back it up.
 
Quote, does she drink? Is she on drugs? Meantime, one of the people who worked most closely with Trump as presidents had some disturbing words, 
 
 saying he meets the definition of the fascists. For more, let's bring in CNN's Steve Contorno from St Petersburg, Florida. Steve, good to see you. 
 
 What are we hearing from the Trump campaign about those remarks by John Kelly?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Yeah, those remarks coming from General John Kelly, who was not only a decorated soldier in America, but also Trump's 
 
 longest serving Chief of Staff. And he claimed that not only did Trump show signs of fascism and appreciation for authoritarians, but also said, quote, 
 
 Hitler did some good things.
 
That's what he's quoting Trump having said. Now Trump's campaign vehemently denies these accounts coming from their former chief of staff, the campaign 
 
 spokesperson, Stephen Chun saying in a statement that Kelly, quote, totally be clown himself with these debunked stories he has fabricated because he 
 
 failed to serve as president while white -- while working as chief of staff.
 
And currently suffers from a debilitating case of Trump derangement syndrome. I should point out though, Kelly's remarks though, come in the 
 
 context of many people who once worked for Trump and in his White House coming out against him in this election, including several former top 
 
 officials and cabinet members, people who worked very highly in his administration, have all come out and said they will not be supporting 
 
 Donald Trump this time around, including Chief of Staff Kelly.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
It also comes as Trump continues to speak about executive power in a way that gives some people pausing, continues to create concerns about his 
 
 authoritarian tendencies. Just yesterday, he was talking to a group of Latino business leaders about the issue of immigration, where he talked 
 
 about the power of the president being quote extreme.
 
The president has, quote, extreme power to solve the border crisis, and that is just one example of how he views the executive office in a way that 
 
 alarms many of his critics, including the people who once worked for him.
 
GIOKOS: Right, Steve Contorno, thank you so much. Good to see you. Moving on now, and we've got 13 days to go until America picks its next president, 
 
 and while the Trump campaign pushes back on those fresh attacks. Today, Kamala Harris is gearing up to face undecided voters in a town hall event 
 
 right here on CNN.
 
What we're expecting to hear from her just ahead. Plus, time to pay the piper and pronto, what a judge has ordered Rudy Giuliani to hand over after 
 
 he defamed two Georgia election workers that's coming up straight ahead. Stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: With one week and six days to go until Election Day in America, Democratic nominee Kamala Harris is working to make her final pitch to 
 
 voters. And she's set to take questions tonight at a CNN Town Hall event hosted by our own Anderson Cooper in the pivotal battle ground state of 
 
 Pennsylvania.
 
You may recall, CNN had proposed a second debate between the candidates on this date. But Donald Trump declined in this last stretch of the race. 
 
 Harris has been ratcheting up her attacks on her opponent's mental competence, describing Trump as unfit to be president.
 
Harris also told NBC News her campaign is preparing for the possibility that Trump prematurely declares victory, as he did in 2020.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HALLIE JACKSON, NBC NEWS ANCHOR: Last election, the former president came out on election night and declared victory before all the votes were 
 
 counted. What is your plan if he does that again in two weeks?
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S., (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We will deal with election night and the days after as they come and we have 
 
 the resources and the expertise and the focus on that as well --
 
JACKSON: So, you want teams ready to go is that what you're saying? Are you thinking about that as a possibility?
 
HARRIS: Of course.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Well, CNN's U.S. National Politics Correspondent, Eva McKend is at the sites of the CNN Town Hall in Aston, Pennsylvania. Eva, great to see 
 
 you. Look 13 days to go and this town hall is going to be significant for Harris to solidify her position on key issues. Give me a sense of what 
 
 voters are expecting to hear from her.
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Well, the vice president's closing argument is really coming into focus here.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
She no doubt, leans into her personal biography as a mechanism to connect on a human level with people who are still getting to know her in this 
 
 truncated campaign, the undecided voters, the persuadable voters that will be asking questions of her at this CNN Town Hall.
 
She is also outlining her policy vision for America. She talks a lot about reproductive rights, that is perhaps her strongest issue, and then she 
 
 additionally warns against in her view, the threat a second Trump presidency would bring to this country. Now that's not all she says.
 
The campaign recognizes well that in addition to sounding the alarm about the former president, she has to make an affirmative case, but you do see 
 
 her ramping up this argument against Trump, arguing that he lacks the basics and is unfit and unhinged.
 
GIOKOS: Well, Harris spent Monday with conservative Former Congresswoman Liz Cheney stumping up in three so called blue wall states in hopes of 
 
 swaying on the fence. On the fence Republicans frankly, who is she specifically talking to at tonight's town hall?
 
MCKEND: When you speak to Democratic strategists, this idea or the strategy of embracing Liz Cheney doesn't come without risk. But clearly the campaign 
 
 thinks that there is a universe of get able voters in this arena, disaffected voters, Nikki Haley voters, Republicans and conservatives who 
 
 just cannot support the former president.
 
And so, she will be speaking to those voters tonight at the town hall, but also doing all that she can to shore up the base of the party. The campaign 
 
 will tell you that this isn't a base only election. They're not forgetting about the base, she did souls to the polls event over the weekend in battle 
 
 ground Georgia, where she spoke with black voters at predominantly black churches.
 
She's speaking to that group, but she's also trying to bring new voters into the coalition. Through these efforts to appeal to conservatives in 
 
 these country over party appeals.
 
GIOKOS: All right. Eva McKend, thank you so much for that update. Good to see you. Well, you can watch CNN's Town Hall with Democratic presidential 
 
 nominee Kamala Harris. It's 09:00 p.m. Eastern, that's Thursday at 04:00 a.m. here in Abu Dhabi. Worth noting. This was originally pitched to the 
 
 candidates as a debate, but Trump declined.
 
A judge has given Former Trump Attorney Rudy Giuliani seven days to turn over his New York Penthouse and other valuables to two Georgia election 
 
 workers. Jurors ordered the Former New York Mayor to pay nearly $150 million after he lied about the two women tampering with ballots during the 
 
 2020 election.
 
Shaye Moss and Ruby Freeman testified they received death rates over the false allegations. CNN's Zach Cohen joins us now for an update, once 
 
 nicknamed America's Mayor following the September 11th attacks. Now to this, what does this mean for Rudy Giuliani?
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yeah, Rudy Giuliani, in addition to having to give over that New York Penthouse, he also has to 
 
 hand over pretty much anything of value that he currently owns that includes a laundry list of very specific items, among them, a collection of 
 
 watches that he received from European presidents after those 9/11 attacks.
 
You know, assign jersey, baseball jersey from Yankees legend Joe DiMaggio, and other sports memorabilia. A 1980 Mercedes that was once owned by 
 
 Hollywood star Lauren Bacall, as well as his TV, items of furniture and jewelry. So taken together, look Giuliani has to, now basically match the 
 
 $150 million that he owes these two election workers.
 
And let's not forget to the timing that this is coming right as Giuliani and Donald Trump and several of Trump's allies who were participating in 
 
 those efforts to overturn the 2020 election are now trying to put Trump in the White House in 2024 with only two weeks until election day here.
 
So, a significant ruling in this case, but ultimately, just a rare example of how lawyers who worked on those efforts in 2020 to overturn the election 
 
 are being held accountable for those actions.
 
GIOKOS: All right. So, as we understand it, the judge has not yet ruled whether he must turn over a Palm Beach, Florida condo. Is that correct?
 
COHEN: That's right. And the judge scheduled a hearing on Monday to sort of hash that out. And also at issue is the -- are these four World Series 
 
 rings, these Yankees World Series rings that Giuliani son argues that his dad gave him. So, the judge will have to sort out whether or not Giuliani 
 
 has to hand over those items.
 
But again, a serious laundry list of very valuable items that Giuliani now has to hand over to Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss as a result of this ruling.
 
GIOKOS: All right. Zachary Cohen, great to see you. Thank you so much.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
I want to get you up to speed now on some other stories that are on our radar right now. Former Abercrombie and Fitch CEO Mike Jeffries has been 
 
 released on a $10 million bond after being charged in the U.S. with 16 counts of sex trafficking and international prostitution.
 
Jeffries romantic partner Matthew Smith and another man were also indicted. Jeffries will be arraigned in New York on Friday. A massive fire is ripping 
 
 through a protected wetland in New Zealand, threatening its delicate ecosystem and the rare species that live there. 50 firefighters are working 
 
 alongside helicopters and airplanes at the site south of Auckland.
 
Authorities say it could take days to get the blaze under control. American Airlines slapped with a $50 million fine after a sweeping investigation 
 
 found repeat violations involving wheelchairs and passengers who use them. American Airlines says it has already spent $175 million this year to 
 
 improve services.
 
And still to come on "Connect the World". This country is working to implement artificial intelligence in everyday life, and we have just heard 
 
 from the U.S. Minister of Economy, about the investments that's making that happen. Plus, a look at one real world application of AI unmanned drones 
 
 and what's driving the technology, and how a top research institution in Abu Dhabi is working to make it safe. Stay tuned.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back. Now the UAE is one of the countries, leading the charge to exploit the potential of artificial intelligence, and is that 
 
 effort that we focus on for today's market watch. While the UAE has signed global partnerships with the likes of Microsoft. The country has also 
 
 focused on integrating AI into everyday life.
 
PwC estimates that the impact of artificial intelligence in the next few years will be massive, as much as $320 billion across this region. And 
 
 specifically, here in the UAE, it could account for 14 percent of GDP in 2030. At the AIM Summit held in Dubai, my colleague Becky Anderson spoke to 
 
 the UAE's Minister of Economy about government investment in AI.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDULLA BIN TOUQ, MINISTER OF ECONOMY OF THE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES: When you see the UAE, we have invested heavily as well or as on our digital 
 
 infrastructure, specifically AI. We have launched policies on AI procuring, if you worked, walk down the government digital platform GITEX last week, 
 
 you see in federal local government.
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR CONNECT THE WORLD: -- yeah.
 
TOUQ: Each and every booth has AI technology.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
And today, when we request a digital solution in our digital department and the ministry. AI is a core aspect of it, and thus only will come through 
 
 the private sector who can provide these solutions. So, UAE is on AI powered on government level, means that the private sector is going to be 
 
 always we know that the government is faster than private sector here in the UAE, and our government is really focusing on it?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Well, the Technology Innovation Institute, a Global Research Center in Abu Dhabi, is focused on understanding AI and its varying uses among its 
 
 TII's, most recent innovations, a high-speed AI powered unmanned drone. Becky sat down with Najwa Aaraj, the CEO of TII, to find out more.
 
NAJWA AARAJ, CEO OF TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION INSTITUTE: TII is replacing the human. Today, if a human operates the drone, it has the FPV, and it tells 
 
 the drone where to go. It controls the drone, and the human tells it what to do. Instead of that, the AI is replacing the human. The AI is acting as 
 
 the eyes of the drone as well. It's telling the drone how to control itself.
 
It's telling the drone the path where to go, and at the end, if the drone detects something and needs to take a decision, this decision is taken 
 
 through the intelligence and AI that is programmed on the drone.
 
ANDERSON: What are the biggest benefits of these AI drones?
 
AARAJ: So, you can think about their application. Depending on the size of the drone. You can execute a specific use case. So, what you see over here 
 
 is a very small drone. We have used it in order to program a fast mobility. So, it's a very high-speed drone that reached 80 kilometer per hour.
 
Now the application of that was drone racing. However, if you think about the applicability in real life, there's a lot. So, imagine that you have a 
 
 confined space that you don't know in advance that you need to go and then detect a fire. So, if you have a fire sensor on top of it, it can go very 
 
 quickly, detect the fire and tell you where the position is.
 
ANDERSON: These drones are trained, as I understand it, by trial and error.
 
AARAJ: Yes.
 
ANDERSON: Correct? How do you prepare them for situations like that of a wildfire or, for example, a combat zone?
 
AARAJ: Whether you're talking about one drone or multiple drones, you train them in advance, and by training them in advance, when they see a fire, 
 
 they can detect a fire. So, either visually through the detection of a fire, through the neural networks that do object recognition or object 
 
 classification on top or they can also be equipped with fire sensors or smoke sensors.
 
If the drone is more advanced, they can actually take a decision to go and put off the fire. So, if you have a drone that is big enough that has a 
 
 very big payload on top of it, you can even put water on it. And once it detects through its own AI that there is a fire, it can go to the place and 
 
 actually put the fire off.
 
ANDERSON: Are there any issues that you see at this point, potential issues that would come from not having human oversight?
 
AARAJ: I would say yes. Let's say you have a drone that needs to recognize a victim, and you don't train the network enough on it, you might pass next 
 
 to the victim and not recognize it, by having an operator, if we call it a human in the loop, the operator can still say that -- tell the drone that 
 
 no your decision making was wrong.
 
And this is the victim, and you need to do something. In a lot of situations where there is not very high tolerance to the error rate that 
 
 can come from technology. You see a lot of man unmanned systems that are working together, and this is only shaping the way to have more autonomy 
 
 and operations across multiple sectors.
 
ANDERSON: There are, of course, some ethical considerations here as well.
 
AARAJ: There are definitely lots of ethical considerations, and this is across the board, right? So, you have the ethical consideration of, how do 
 
 I train the AI that you don't have bias, and how you train the model, et cetera. And on top of that, you have the ethical aspects of, how do I use 
 
 this drone, and how do I use this application.
 
And today, a big part of what we do is on these areas, whether you're talking about the fundamental model itself or the system that has this 
 
 model. How can I consider ethics in the equation?
 
ANDERSON: The CEO of OpenAI recently said that the UAE is like a regulatory sandbox, a place where AI testing can be done with few regulations to hold 
 
 it back. Do you believe that this has enabled the UAE to be a leader in AI development. And at the same time, what's the responsibility on a country 
 
 like this, where there is so much opportunity for testing, to consider the sort of you know, governance issues and ethical considerations that you've 
 
 just highlighted.
 
AARAJ: The UAE is an exemplary country where you have the advanced tech from one side, but there is always the consideration for regulations, for 
 
 law and the executive regulations that follow this law, right?
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
If you think about it, this country is the first country that had the ministry of AI. It's one of the pioneering countries when they started 
 
 talking about regulations of AI. There is also the AI, the council for advanced technologies and AI. And there is an extreme focus on AI, but also 
 
 on top of that, on how can I establish trust, ethics, et cetera.
 
And I guess in TII, we embodied this vision, and we have open sourced all the models that we have developed so far.
 
ANDERSON: You are so deeply entrenched in the sort of sharp end of research and development. What kind of regulation do you believe is needed around AI 
 
 innovation and the sort of wider applications going forward?
 
AARAJ: We need to make sure is that the regulations don't slow down the technology at the same time, the technology advancements should not shadow 
 
 the regulations. There are regulations that are needed for the safety of AI, because today I can put AI on the drone and it can fly for specific 
 
 missions.
 
But I cannot put AI on my car without having those safety considerations or even certifications for the safety of AI and then drive on the highway. 
 
 This is very much needed, because they're needed one in order to make sure that whatever you put on the AI is safe.
 
There should be regulations about data in general, how to process data, how to make sure that the data is not biased, et cetera. And I think very 
 
 important aspect is, how do we maintain the confidentiality of the data. And this is where we need a merge, or we need a complementarity between 
 
 data privacy and AI and the usage of AI.
 
GIOKOS: And up next in "World Sports", it's a first for the NBA, and a rare feat in pro sports. Basketball legend LeBron James and his son competing 
 
 alongside one another. Those special moments coming up next. Plus, Lisa looking for whoever discovered these ancient artifacts in Poland, offering 
 
 jail time instead of a finder's fee. The story coming up just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Well, the President of McDonald says the restaurants chains food is safe to eat after the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
 
 issued a food safety alert for E. coli that we saw outbreaking, linking to McDonald's quarter pound of burgers. At least one death has been reported 
 
 so far, and 10 people, including a child have been hospitalized.
 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration says slivered onions are a likely source of contamination, and that onions and patties have been removed from 
 
 restaurants in 12 U.S. states. Nearly 50 illnesses have been reported across 10 of them, with most of the cases originating in Colorado and 
 
 Nebraska.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
McDonald says, we are working in close partnership with our suppliers to replenish supply for the Quarter Pounder in the coming weeks. In the 
 
 meantime, all other menu items, including other beef products, are unaffected and available. Well, it is being called one of the largest 
 
 treasures found in Poland in recent years, and whoever found it could face jail time.
 
Polish police are investigating how more than 100 Bronze Age artifacts popped up outside Historical Association. The collection was full of 
 
 spearheads, necklaces and shields, all dating back thousands of years. Police say whoever unearthed these items are looking at up to eight years 
 
 in prison, the crime finding a treasure without permission.
 
Well, superstar LeBron James and his son Bronny made basketball history by becoming the first father-son duo to play together in a regular season NBA 
 
 game. Now, the Lakers hosted the Minnesota Timberwolves in Los Angeles, Tuesday, which was the league's opening night. And we have Andy Scholes 
 
 standing by to tell us about this very special moment.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Yeah.
 
GIOKOS: Special on all fronts, right? You get to play with your dad. But I'm also thinking about the stress that Bronny must have felt being there 
 
 and sort of being compared to his father in many ways. Tell us what play --
 
SCHOLES: I'm sure it was surreal for him to be on the same court playing with his dad, Eleni. I imagine your daughter here anchoring the news with 
 
 you one day.
 
GIOKOS: Yeah.
 
SCHOLES: I mean, what would that be like for the both of you? That's what LeBron and Bronny were dealing with last night. You know, they were just 
 
 the fourth father-son combo ever to play together professionally in team sports. You know, it happened twice in baseball, once in hockey.
 
But basketball, I mean, this is just unreal what LeBron has been able to accomplish here, because it isn't incredible longevity that, you know, 
 
 that's made this happen. He's 39 years old now, 22nd NBA season, and he's been so good for so long that he was able to still be in the league playing 
 
 with his son is in his rookie season. So, what a special moment. We'll hear from both of them coming up here on "World Sport".
 
GIOKOS: Yeah. I know it's so epic, and you can always see the hand gestures of reassurance towards Bronny, which is very special. And I hope we get to 
 
 see more of this. Andy, what's the plan?
 
SCHOLES: Well, you know, Bronny is a rookie, and he was a second-round pick, so he's got a lot of getting better to do before he gets regular NBA 
 
 minutes.
 
GIOKOS: Yeah.
 
SCHOLES: So well, they might play together sparingly, but for now, I bet it's going to be a while before we see them both on the court together.
 
GIOKOS: All right. Andy Scholes, we'll see you right after the short break of more sports, and I'll be back at the top of the hour. Stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END