Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Harris Campaign Says It Will Hit $500 Million Fundraising Mark Within Days; Obamas Wow DNC Crowd as They Call on Democrats to Act to Get Harris Elected; Protesters Face Off With Police Near Israeli Consulate. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired August 21, 2024 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:00:00]
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning to you. I'm Sarah Sidner with John Berman in Chicago. Our Kate Bolduan is in New York.
 
Breaking overnight Kamala Harris' historic cash haul on the brink of shattering even more records. With day three of the Democratic convention about to kick off, her campaign is now projecting it will soon be able to say it has raised half a billion, yes, with a B, dollars since Harris joined the race, meaning any cash edge Donald Trump once had has just been obliterated.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Now, Democrats this morning will tell you there are things that money cannot buy, like the energy, they say they felt in this arena overnight, two Obamas and an Emhoff.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  Now, it is up to all of us to fight for the America we believe in. And make no mistake, it will be a fight. For all the incredible energy we've been able to generate over the last few weeks, for all the rallies and the memes, this will still be a tight race in a closely divided country.
 
Here's a 78-year-old billionaire who has not stopped whining about his problems since he rode down his golden escalator nine years ago. It has been a constant stream of gripes and grievances that's actually been getting worse now that he's afraid of losing to Kamala.
 
Even when we don't agree with each other, we can find a way to live with each other. That's Kamala's vision. That's Tim's vision. That's the Democratic Party's vision.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SIDNER:  In the beginning of his remarks, the former president said, quote, the only person stupid enough to speak after Michelle Obama, yes, his wife. Simply put, she blew the roof off of this arena last night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHELLE OBAMA, FORMER U.S. FIRST LADY:  For years, Donald Trump did everything in his power to try to make people fear us. See his limited, narrow view of the world made him feel threatened by the existence of two hardworking, highly educated, successful people who happen to be black.
 
Who's going to tell him that the job he's currently seeking might just be one of those black jobs? If things don't go our way, we don't have the luxury of whining or cheating others to get further ahead. No. We don't get to change the rules so we always win. If we see a mountain in front of us, we don't expect there to be an escalator waiting to take us to the top.
 
Don't complain if no one from the campaign has. I have specifically reached out to you to ask you for your support. There is simply no time for that kind of foolishness. You know what you need to do.
 
Consider this to be your official ask, Michelle Obama is asking you, no I'm telling you all, to do something.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN:  So, even before the Obamas spoke, it was the second gentleman, Doug Emhoff, you know, talking about a love story and a blended family story. Oh, that picture you're looking at right there is the vice president actually watching her husband speak. She delayed her landing. They were flying back from the rally in Wisconsin so she could see the whole thing. He had the audience kind of laughing and then cringing, but in the dad joke kind of way.
 
SIDNER:  Yes. He was self-deprecating.
 
BERMAN:  He was self-deprecating. He was also rallying the crowd, too.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DOUG EMHOFF, U.S. SECOND GENTLEMAN:  With your hand toughness, with compassion and conviction, she'll lead from the belief that wherever we come from, whatever we look like, we're strongest when we fight for what we believe in, not just against what we fear.
 <br>[07:05:06]
 
Kamala Harris was exactly the right person for me at an important moment in my life. And at this moment in our nation's history, she is exactly the right president.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER:  And as for tonight, it is Harris running mate, Tim Walz. It's his big night.
 
CNN's Kevin Liptak is joining us now. Before we sort of tick through the rundown of today, can you first tick through this massive amount of money that the Harris campaign has gotten overnight? KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  Yes, the numbers are eye watering, and it does give you a sense, a concrete sense of the momentum that they're heading into this convention with. You know, it's not a vibe that they're feeling, it's not a sense. These are whole cold hard numbers that they are clearly enjoying the advantage over Donald Trump at this point, the Harris campaign ending last month with $220 million in their war chest. When you add it all up with all the affiliated entities, it's well north of $300 million. That's a sizable advantage over Donald Trump.
 
And it does show you how the Democrats are now re-establishing this cash advantage that they had enjoyed for so long, really, until the start of the summer. That had been eroded in the months leading up to President Biden's decision to withdraw from this race. And these numbers do show you that that decision has clearly re-energized Democratic donors. The Harris campaign, people familiar with their numbers, say they are coming close to raising $500 million in the month or so since Biden withdrew and Harris emerged as the Democratic standard bearer.
 
So, those are the numbers. They're interesting, of course. I don't know that they're unexpected. To me, what is far more interesting is how they're actually spending this money. We learned heading into this convention that they have already reserved $370 million in ad space. The majority of it, $200 million, is actually digital advertising. That's an inverse from how they were spending their money four years ago.
 
And what it allows them to do is essentially take up all of the good spots in the fall depriving President Trump of any of the sort of marquee advertising spots that will reach voters in the lead up to the election, things like, the highly watched season premieres. They're even advertising on Fox News, at least during the day, when they think there's some more moderate voters for them to reach. And so it does show you how they're using this massive cash advantage heading into the fall.
 
BERMAN:  It is interesting how they are spending it. So, you had the roll call last night. You were in the middle of it, like musical act, you know, shipping up to Boston for the Massachusetts delegation there, so much energy, Kevin. How will they top that tonight? What's the plan?
 
LIPTAK:  Yes. Well, the key speaker is going to be Tim Walz, the vice presidential nominee. He is, frankly, an unknown to a lot of Americans. Of all of her choices for vice president, he was the one that many people just didn't know. He didn't have a national profile. So, his objective is going to be to rally the crowd and introduce himself, probably using some of that famous folksy humor that we've heard from him this sense of a joyful warrior. That's what Democrats want to hear from him.
 
We're also going to hear from former President Bill Clinton. He's delivering his 12th convention speech. He is, at this point, the utmost party elder. He's had some good speeches over the years. He's had some bombs. I'm thinking back to 1988 when he spoke for twice as long as he was supposed to and people were walking out. He later said that it was 32 minutes of unmitigated disaster.
 
What Democrats have turned to him to do in the last couple of conventions is try and explain things to voters, particular the economy. That's something that they actually do need this time around. A lot of people don't understand what the Biden Harris administration has been doing.
 
You know, Bill Clinton is still a rock star in a lot of ways for Democrats, but I think it's fair to say that some Democrats have changed their views on him over the years. The party has just generally moved to the left on things, like crime or trade. There are some, you know, complicated views about the scandal that engulfed the end of his presidency.
 
But I don't think there's any question that he will be very warmly received in the convention hall later today.
 
BERMAN:  Yes. The only thing I question, Kevin, is if you can actually remember 1988. You're a young man, but I do appreciate it.
 
LIPTAK:  Yes.
 
BERMAN:  I do appreciate it.
 
LIPTAK:  I read about it. I read about it.
 
BERMAN:  I read about it in the history books. Kevin Liptak, great reporting, hreat to see you. Thanks so much. Kate?
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Oh, the history books of 1988.
 
Donald Trump heading to North Carolina today, continuing to try and counter program the Democratic Convention. And now he says he may have room for RFK Jr. in a new Trump administration.
 
And happening just blocks from the Democratic Convention site right now, an escaped inmate has barricaded himself inside a restaurant.
 <br>[07:10:03]
 
He's wanted for murder, escape, and armed robbery. That's playing out as we speak. New details are coming in.
 
And there's also new data out this morning, we're going to get to, about popular weight loss drugs like Ozempic and Wegovy, and possible impacts on your mental health.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
B. OBAMA:  We do not need four more years of bluster and bumbling and chaos.
 <br>[07:15:05]
 
We have seen that movie before and we all know that the sequel is usually worse.
 
America's ready for a new chapter. America's ready for a better story. We are ready for a President Kamala Harris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  Barack Obama last night talking, of course, about Donald Trump. Donald Trump, as Michelle Obama noted, pushed lies about the Obamas for years. But maybe Trump knew how they would perform and how they would be received here last night because he had a different line about the Obamas to CNN. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  I like him. I think he's a nice gentleman. But he was very, very weak on trade. If you take a look at what happened to our country trade-wise, it was a disaster. Take a look at Japan, take a look at China, take a look at what happened with some of these countries, what they did. But I happen to like him. I respect him and I respect his wife.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER:  That's the nicest thing he's ever said about any Democrat, I think.
 
BERMAN:  It was interesting. Like I said, he probably knew how they were going to come off last night.
 
Now, Trump and J.D. Vance, they are in North Carolina today.
 
CNN's Alayna Treene with us this morning with all that news. Alayna?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  Well, clearly very different tune from Donald Trump. I just found those remarks from our Kristen Holmes to be fascinating about Obama, particularly given the birther conspiracies that he had pushed on him.
 
But I'm going to transition to today, John and Sara. So, yes, Donald Trump and J.D. Vance are going to be in Asheboro, North Carolina, and they're going to be talking about national security policy. Of course, this is part of their weeklong swing to battleground states where, you know, the Trump campaign is really trying to keep Donald Trump focused on a series of key issues. You heard him yesterday talking about crime and safety. Monday, he was talking about the economy. Tomorrow, he's going to be at the border talking about immigration, so really trying to drive home their intent to push these issues where they think Donald Trump is polling better than Democrats, and specifically Kamala Harris ahead of November.
 
But the thing that's really interesting about North Carolina, John and Sara, is that this is Trump's third visit to the state this month alone. And I think it just reflects how important they see this to the race overall, particularly now with Harris atop the Democratic ticket.
 
And, look, I mean, it's not like North Carolina has gone for a lot of Democratic candidates in the past. The last time we actually saw a Democratic candidate be successful there was 16 years ago, where Barack Obama in 2008 was able to win. But in 2020, Joe Biden actually came very close in that race in North Carolina with Trump. So, that's why there's a huge focus there.
 
But I do want to shift gears and tell you what he also did. Also told Kristen Holmes yesterday, which was he admitted about RFK Jr. that he would actually consider putting him in his administration, also said he would welcome his endorsement. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  I would love that endorsement because I've always liked him.
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Would you also consider putting him in the administration?
 
TRUMP:  You're asking me a very unusual question. I haven't been asked that question yet. I like him a lot. I respect him a lot. I probably would if something like that would happen.
 
He's a very different kind of a guy, very smart guy. And, yes, I would be honored by that endorsement.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE:  So, John and Sara, I mean, we haven't heard that from Donald Trump yet. And reminder that earlier in the day yesterday, Nicole Shanahan, RFK Jr.'s running, mate had said that he would -- RFK Jr. was considering potentially dropping out and endorsing Donald Trump. And Trump says I might welcome him. I welcome that endorsement. I might even welcome him in my own administration. So, pretty newsy there with Kristen Holmes.
 
SIDNER:  That is very interesting, even that he asked the Democrats for the same thing at some point. I don't think they gave him the time of day.
 
Alayna Treene, thank you so much. Appreciate it. Kate?
 
BOLDUAN:  Also new overnight protesters clashed with police in Chicago and today opposing pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian protests are planned to take place outside the Democratic Convention. We've got much more on how they're preparing for that ahead.
 
And there is new video in showing the moment a yacht sank as it was hit by a severe storm. The search for the sixth still missing, now entering a third day.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:20:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) M. OBAMA:  Something wonderfully magical is in the air, isn't it? Yes. You know, we're feeling it here in this arena, but it's spreading all across this country. We love a familiar feeling that's been buried too deep for far too long. You know what I'm talking about. It's the contagious power of hope.
 
America, hope is making a comeback.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN:  That was more of Michelle Obama firing up the crowd at the Democratic convention last night. That was, of course, inside the convention hall.
 
Outside the convention, there was another round of protests. You see video here, pro-Palestinian protesters clashing with Chicago police outside the Israeli consulate. Additional security fencing now put in place as dueling protests over the war in Gaza are expected this afternoon.
 
CNN's Whitney Wilds in Chicago tracking this one for us once again.
 <br>[07:25:00]
 
Whitney, talk about what happened yesterday and last night, and also what you're hearing now from police about today.
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT:  Well, what we saw last night was that were thousands of protesters that took to the streets. They went to the Israeli consulate, and this was a more volatile experience than what we saw on Monday night.
 
This experience was many more protesters clashing directly with law enforcement. The law enforcement had tactical gear on. They were very well prepared for these clashes with protesters, Kate. We don't yet know how many people were arrested. We expect to hear that later today at these daily briefings from the Chicago Police Department, as well as other agencies, including the U.S. Secret Service. But this is exactly what the Chicago Police Department and surrounding agencies have been preparing for.
 
And what they're doing, Kate, is making sure that they have enough bodies with enough to control these large crowds, and how they're doing that is by upping staffing. The Chicago Police Department has canceled days off for officers. They're in an all-hands-on-deck posture. In addition, Kate, they're bringing in mutual aid officers from surrounding agencies. That is into the hundreds of officers. So, really, this is about making sure that they have enough staffing to measure up to the amount of protesters that are arriving at some of these more volatile protests.
 
I will say, and I think it's important to note that the number of protesters that are actually clashing with police is small relative to the amount of peaceful protesters, but, certainly, law enforcement here is prepared for any scenario. Later today, we're going to learn more about what happened last night as well as what they're prepared for today. And, Kate, there are these sort of dueling protests that are going to happen here. One is a pro- Palestine protest. Another is a pro-Israel protest. The hope is that they don't collide. The times are staggered. The launch locations are staggered, so hopefully they don't run into each other. But right now, law enforcement is prepared for anything, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  As I have to be. Whitney, thank you so much for tracking that one for us in Chicago. She'll continue that.
 
We are also following some breaking news from overnight, Ukraine carrying out what could be one of its largest drone attacks on Moscow overnight. The latest moves as Ukraine is pushing further inside Russia still.
 
And more of the DNC, the speeches and the ceremonial roll call that became a roll call on steroids last night.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:30:00]