Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Migrants Turned Away as New Asylum Restrictions Take Effect; Some Trump VP Contenders Have Received Vetting Materials; Senate to Vote on Contraception Access Bill; Boeing's Starliner Lifts Off on First-Ever Crewed Voyage. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired June 05, 2024 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: We may already be seeing the impacts of President Biden's new crackdown at the southern border. There's some new video that shows authorities returning migrants to Mexico after arriving at a port of entry in Hidalgo, Texas.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: The president's policy went into effect at midnight. It shuts off access to asylum for migrants who cross the U.S.-Mexico border illegally once daily crossings reach a certain threshold. 
 
CNN's Rosa Flores is live in that border city. And Rosa, talk to us about what you're seeing there.
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, let me set the scene for you. What you see behind me is the international bridge between Hidalgo, Texas and Reynosa. It's important to note that this executive order does not stop trade, commerce. You can see vehicles crossing into Mexico. 
 
The impact of this executive order is happening between ports of entry when migrants cross illegally into the United States. Now, under this executive order, if a migrant does not express fear, that migrant can be very swiftly returned to Mexico or to their home country.
 
Now, we have video of this because we witnessed this earlier today. I want you to take a look at this, and I want to take you through it, because you see a white bus. That's a government bus. We see it on the U.S.-Mexico border all the time. This is how U.S. officials transport migrants between different processing centers. You see that bus drive into the port of entry, and then you see agents escorting migrants to Mexico.
 
Now, we've seen this before under Title 42, and that's one of the reasons why we wanted to be here at this port of entry for this story, because we've seen how swiftly migrants can be returned. Now, there's some nuance here that's important. If that migrant, when they cross illegally, express fear, then they get a credible fear interview.
 
Now, here's how that would work. It could happen at Customs and Border Protection. It could happen at ICE. They are still fingerprinted. They are still getting a background check, and officials are checking for any national security concerns. But the threshold for asylum is going to be a lot higher, meaning fewer migrants are going to actually be able to achieve that.
 
So, you guessed it, we would be seeing more of that video that you just saw moments ago. We would see more of those migrants swiftly return back to Mexico. 
 
Now, Boris and Brianna, the other thing that I've got to mention is that there's that threshold that if the migrant apprehensions go below 1,500, that doesn't mean that the federal government stops applying federal law on the border. Not at all. All that means is that this executive order is not going to be in effect. 
 
And the easiest way for me to explain it is imagine border security on steroids. If this executive order is in effect, it's on steroids. 
 <br>[15:35:02]
 
And if it's not in effect, imagine the federal government works like the federal government does. It might be a little slower, but in essence, it doesn't stop. The federal laws will still be applied on the U.S.-Mexico border. Back to you, guys.
 
SANCHEZ: Rosa Flores, thanks so much for the update from Hidalgo, Texas. Thanks. 
 
So just in, CNN is learning that vetting materials have been sent to some candidates under consideration to be former President Donald Trump's running mate.
 
KEILAR: That's right. CNN's Alayna Treene is with us now on this story. What more are you learning about who's in the running here?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Well, that's right. Well, there is a series of people who are in the running. And I should just know, I want to do that at the top, that this is still very much in flux.
 
So just because we've learned, and this is according to a source familiar with the process, that some of these people have received vetting materials, Donald Trump could still change his mind. This is by no means a finalist. But what we're told is that people like Senator J.D. Vance, Senator Tim Scott, Senator Marco Rubio, and Doug Burgum, the North Dakota governor, are all some of the top contenders on his VP list. Other names include Elise Stefanik. 
 
But again, I think it's interesting to know, because we reported a couple weeks ago that Donald Trump had been asking an outside firm to vet these different people. Now they're starting to actually get some of these materials themselves, which just shows how much closer we are to him making a decision.
 
Now, when I talk to Donald Trump's team, they say, look, again, this is in flux. These are moving parts. But he's more likely to announce his decision closer to the Republican National Convention in July. And also, I mean, just reporting on Donald Trump for several years now, he's the kind of man that when he's at Mar-a-Lago, when he's going to these different events, he'll be in Arizona tomorrow, he likes to ask his allies, his donors, who do you think should be VP? And he'll float a name. He'll say, what do you think about Burgum?
 
And of course, we've seen all these men as well really showing their loyalty to Donald Trump, particularly in the aftermath of him being convicted last week. And so I think the names that you see and what I'm laying out here aren't entirely surprising. The people who are receiving these materials, it shouldn't be surprising.
 
But of course, this is Donald Trump we're talking about. So nothing is set in stone.
 
SANCHEZ: Another thing we're seeing in the aftermath of that conviction is a fundraising boost. And you have an update on some numbers.
 
TREENE: Yes. So one of Donald Trump's leading super PACs, really his original super PAC, it's called MAGA, Inc., Make America Great Again, Inc., says that they raised $70 million last month. Now, that's not part of the $141 million that Donald Trump's campaign and the RNC raised last month. And a lot of this they also attribute to being off of his conviction. 
 
And look, I mean, there was a memo that they sent to donors yesterday that really laid out their pathway for how they think Donald Trump can secure 270 electoral votes in November. And I thought it was fascinating because, you know, they talked about four states in particular, Pennsylvania, Nevada, Arizona, Georgia, all states that Trump lost in 2020 but they think they can win in the upcoming election.
 
And I think it's a really good look at just how his outside groups think this is how we're going to win in the fall.
 
KEILAR: All right, Alayna, very interesting stuff. Appreciate it. 
 
TREENE: Thank you.
 
KEILAR: Still ahead, putting lawmakers on the record. The Senate is set to vote on a bill guaranteeing the right to contraception as reproductive rights remain front and center for the election.
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Happening now on Capitol Hill, the Senate is preparing to vote on a bill that would enshrine into federal law a right for people to buy and use contraceptives, as well as for health care providers to provide them.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, this piece of legislation would apply to birth control pills, the Plan B pill, condoms, and other forms of contraception. CNN chief congressional correspondent Manu Raju is live on the Hill for us. Manu, Democrats want to force Republicans to take a stand on contraception What's expected to happen?
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, we actually do not expect it to get the 60 votes necessary to move over -- to essentially advance. We allow the Senate to take it up, allow the Senate to eventually pass this out of the body because of opposition from Republicans. We do expect a couple of Republicans, Senators Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins to vote with the Democrats, but that's not going to be enough. They need nine Republicans to vote to move ahead. 
 
Now, Republicans say that this is something that is not necessary. They believe it's a campaign ploy. They say that it's essentially that Democrats are trying to force this issue to play politics over the issue of reproductive rights in this hotly contested election season. 
 
They have some policy objectives, too, namely that this would also guarantee access to the morning-after pill, of course, widely known or widely used, one of them being Plan B. There's some philosophical objections that don't want to guarantee that right. But nevertheless, this battle is expected to play out on the campaign trail, as top Senators told me earlier today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SEN. JOHN CORNYN (R-TX): It's not a serious attempt to legislate. This is just a show vote in anticipation of the election. Democrats think they can win this case, this election, based on reproductive rights, and somehow they're suggesting that contraception is in jeopardy, which is just blatantly false.
 
RAJU: Would you guys want to campaign on this?
 
SEN. DICK DURBIN (D-IL): Well, of course we're going to raise this issue, as well as the Dobbs decision on reproductive choice. 
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
We know what we're finding in states that are considered red states. They're voting by referendum to support our position.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAJU (on camera): And this is just the beginning of a number of bills that Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer plans to push forward on the issue of reproductive rights in the weeks ahead. Including next week, when they plan to address guaranteeing IVF protections for Americans in the wake of that Alabama Supreme Court ruling attempting to strike a blow to people's access to IVF in the aftermath of the Dobbs decision.
 
Of course, the politics lost on nobody here. Republicans know full well how Democrats have weaponized this issue effectively in the recent campaign cycles. They themselves are trying to push forward on alternative measures to protect themselves from the political backlash for blocking this. Democrats, though, have rejected those other measures, saying they're too weak. And they say the voters ultimately will make that decision on who to support over these key issues in the fall.
 
KEILAR: All right, Manu, thank you so much for that update from The Hill. 
 
And now to some of the other headlines that we're watching this hour. 
 
The U.N. says the world is on a quote, highway to climate hell as we set yet another record and it's really not the good kind of record. New data revealing that we've now seen unprecedented temperatures for 12 straight months, a full year now. That means that from June 2023 to this May, every single month has been the hottest month on record. Scientists warning that unless we take action, these record highs will feel relatively cool compared to what is to come.
 
SANCHEZ: Also, TJX, the parent company of TJ Maxx, Marshall's and HomeGoods, says it is equipping some of its employees with police-like body cameras in an attempt to prevent shoplifting. 
 
TJX finance chair says quote: It's almost like a de-escalation where people are less likely to do something when they're being videotaped. 
 
Now, TJX is not alone. In a survey last year, 35 percent of U.S. retailers said they were also researching body cameras for employees. 
 
And for the first time in decades, Brits will have a new monarch in their pocket. Banknotes picturing King Charles entered circulation today. He's pictured on the 5, 10, 20 and 50 pound notes. They will co-circulate with notes featuring his mother, the late Queen Elizabeth. 
 
Still ahead, history in the making as Boeing's Starliner spacecraft successfully lifts off. What's next in the mission?
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Pretty cool.
 
KEILAR: Never gets old.
 
SANCHEZ: Pretty cool, never gets old. The third time was the charm for Boeing's Starliner capsule, which finally blasted off into space from Cape Canaveral today. The capsule, carrying two veteran NASA astronauts on its historic voyage, is now in orbit headed to the International Space Station.
 
KEILAR: Boeing is competing with Elon Musk's SpaceX, is one of two companies making trips to orbit for NASA. And a short time ago, Musk tipping his hat to the Boeing team on X, writing congratulations on a successful launch. So, you know, pleasant competition, I guess we could say. CNN's Kristin Fisher has been following this for us. She's joining us now live from Cape Canaveral. Kristin, what's the reaction to the success of the mission?
 
We're having an audio problem. I thought maybe it was just us. All right, let's maybe we can riff for like 10 seconds.
 
SANCHEZ: While we get the mic situation worked out.
 
KEILAR: Alright, we're going to try it again. Oh, sounding promising.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
KEILAR: Kristin, take it away.
 
[Speaker 11] Sorry, can you guys hear me? 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, yes! 
 
KEILAR: OK, do it.
 
SANCHEZ: Permission to launch.
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: So, OK. OK, so everybody here breathing a sigh of relief that this mission finally got off the launch pad. It's not over yet though, guys.
 
This is a 10, 11 day mission. They still have to dock with the International Space Station and then they have to get back to Earth. So, a successful start, but it's not over yet.
 
You know, there was a press conference, a post-launch press conference about two hours ago and, you know, I asked the head of Boeing's Starliner program what he makes of the last decade in this competition between SpaceX and Boeing ever since NASA doled out these dueling contracts between these two companies to ferry its astronauts up to the International Space Station. I also asked him about that tweet from Elon Musk. Here's what Mark Nappi said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK NAPPI, BOEING PROGRAM MANAGER: We don't see it as a competition. We've got two providers that are going up to the International Space Station and SpaceX is up there and we're up there now as well. So, if this is a -- this is something that NASA has planned and we've accomplished it. And, of course, that next step is certification. 
 
I saw the tweet. That's awesome. And, you know, I sit on my front porch and I watch every SpaceX mission and I root for them too. This is something that's great for the entire country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FISHER: Yes, so a great day for the country. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
One more step towards making the U.S. a little less reliant on a third option to get its astronauts to the Space Station, a Russian Soyuz spacecraft. But also just a great day for the two NASA astronauts onboard that spacecraft, two veterans, Butch Wilmore and Sonny Williams. Sonny's been waiting about nine years to finally fly today. So, she finally got off the launch pad.
 
KEILAR: Yes, that is fantastic. Kristin, thank you so much for that. We appreciate it. Third time was a charm for the Starliner. Second time was a charm for that hit with Kristin Fischer. We appreciate it, and we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
KEILAR: Proof that not all heroes wear capes, some wear clocks. Hip- hop legend Flavor Flav has a plan to save Red Lobster. He posted a picture of himself standing next to all this food. 
 
Writing: Your boy said he was going to do everything to help Red Lobster and save the Cheddar Bay Biscuits ordered the whole menu.
 
SANCHEZ: I guess the true flavor of love are the Cheddar Bay Biscuits. 
 
KEILAR: Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: Of course, the seafood chain filed for bankruptcy last month. Their Instagram account said: It's flavor time, boyeeeeeee!
 
The kind of hard news stories you only get here on CNN NEW CENTRAL. Thanks for watching. "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.