Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: President Biden Drops Out of 2024 Presidential Race and Endorses Vice President Kamala Harris; Vice President Kamala Harris Garnering Support from Numerous Democrats after President Biden Drops Out of Presidential Race; Sources: Democrats Coalescing Around Harris After Biden Exits Race; Interview with Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL). Aired 8-8:30a ET.

Aired July 22, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Quote, "Many strong decisions have been made in recent years and they will be remembered as bold steps taken by President Biden in response to challenging times."
 
Of course, speaking first and foremost about the challenging times that Ukraine is facing and to support that the Ukrainians are getting from the U.S. Of course, all that a little bit in doubt with a possible Trump president on the horizon. We know that there was a phone call between former President Trump and Volodymyr Zelenskyy just in the past couple of days. 
 
And finally, Justin Trudeau of Canada, the U.S.'s neighbor. "I've known President Biden for years. As president, he is a partner to Canadians and a true friend. To President Biden, and the first lady, thank you." So as you can see, John, a lot of praise coming in internationally for the president's decision and for his legacy, John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes, more than boilerplate, I think, in some cases here. Frederik Pleitgen in Berlin. Thank you very much. Great to see you this morning. 
 
A new hour NEWS CENTRAL, a busy hour, starts now. 
 
SIDNER:  It went from consternation conservation to excitement. But what happens now? President Biden has bowed out of the race, and Vice President Kamala Harris with his support is pushing to secure the Democratic nomination. But could someone like Senator Joe Manchin, who is starting to talk about this, try to challenge her bid? We'll talk all about that. 
 
As soon as Biden announced he was out, a tidal wave of money started coming in. And its back to the drawing board for Donald Trump's campaign. After crafting a campaign to take on Joe Biden, he's now focusing attacks on Kamala Harris, of course.
 
I'm Sara Sidner with John Berman and Kate Bolduan. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  What a year this last week has been, and what a week this one now is setting up to be. With Biden out and Harris jumping in, the latest was today at this unprecedented moment in presidential politics as now independent senator from West Virginia, Joe Manchin, suggesting he's dipping his toe in the waters, maybe saying on CNN just this morning he's pursuing the process.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. JOE MANCHIN, (I-WV):  I have been very humbled by people calling and asked, would you consider, would you consider, would you talk about us. My main thing is that we have a voice. I want the middle to have a voice. And I think it would help Kamala to have a little bit of a process to where she could explain, articulate, and have a dialogue.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN:  And I'm just told just now on CBS, Joe Manchin now trying to clarify the unclarity, saying he will not be a president -- be a candidate for president. So it continues. 
 
All of this, and there's not a lot of time. Democrats have just four weeks to figure things out before the convention kicks off on August 19. The country is just 100 days out, just over 100 days out from Election Day. Some voting begins in September, just to show you what the timeline looks like. 
 
A huge number of Democrats have now endorsed Kamala Harris. We're going to hear from her this morning at a previously scheduled event, but one that will now include her first public remarks since the entire political world shifted, and since she said in a letter that she intends to earn and win the nomination.
 
CNN's Arlette Saenz Eva McKend joining us now, tracking all of this. Arlette, first I want to start with you. What's next for Joe Biden? 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Kate, President Biden remains here at his home in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, just one day after making that stunning decision vision to bow out of the race. He continues to recover from COVID-19. But in that letter announcing that he would not run for reelection, the president also said he wants to address the nation this week to talk about his decision. It's still unclear when exactly that might take place as the president continues to stay here in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. We're still waiting to hear when he will return to the White House.
 
But also President Biden very quickly threw his support, within 30 minutes of bowing out of the race, behind Vice President Kamala Harris. And what you have seen is the campaign in many ways start to mobilize towards the Harris campaign. They've changed Twitter accounts from Biden HQ to Kamala HQ. They've changed logos. And they are also still trying to turn their fundraising towards her candidacy. A source this morning saying that Harris in the last day since President Biden endorsed her for the Democratic nomination, she has brought in $49.6 million from grassroots online donations alone. Many donors have said that they are now feeling reenergized about giving to this Democratic campaign now that President Biden has stepped aside and Harris will be seeking the Democratic nomination.
 
But Harris does have a lot of work to do before she can secure the Democratic nomination. 
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
She said in her own statement that she intends to earn and win that nomination heading into the August convention. Now, there have been many prominent Democrats who have come out and supported Harris, but she has been working the phones, spent about 10 hours on the phone yesterday reaching out to Democratic Party leaders, including former presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. Now, Clinton endorsed Harris as nominee, or run for the nomination. Obama has yet to do that, but this is a Democratic process that will need to play out in the coming weeks. It's Harris's intention to go forward and try to seek that Democratic nomination with the backing of President Joe Biden. 
 
BOLDUAN:  All right, now, Eva, let's talk more about what we could be hearing today from Vice President Harris. What are you hearing? 
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER:  Later this morning. She will give remarks honoring NCAA championship teams. It's unclear if she will well address this shake-up in the Democratic ticket. But what she has been doing behind the scenes, Kate, is trying to shore up support internally among Democrats. Ten hours on the phone with governors, members of Congress, civil rights leaders. She had a conversation with her pastor where he prayed over her, because the next few weeks will be trying. 
 
I spoke to the head of the Congressional Black Caucus. And he told me though President Biden endorsed her, she is under no illusion that this is going to be a coronation. She very much understands that she is going to have to battle it out over the coming weeks.
 
Now, I've been on the campaign trail with her speaking to voters. Many Democratic voters told me that they were excited about the prospect of Harris leading the top of the ticket. Other voters, though, although they are excited, they are still concerned about this last-minute shakeup and are concerned about her ability to win. Let's listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEBRA ELDER, CALIFORNIA VOTER:  I'm upset and I'm sad about it because now that, well, Kamala Harris is on the ticket now. So we've just got to stand behind her and push for the ticket so she can win. 
 
IVY BURTON, CALIFORNIA VOTER:  I was so happy when I heard it because I just don't think that he's up to it. So I was really excited to see that. But I'm a little worried that she can't win. 
 
I think she's great. I will vote for her. I would love for her to win, but I'm not sure our country is ready for that candidate.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKEND:  What I can also tell you is that her allies are eager for this matchup between her and Trump to come into focus. They think pitting a prosecutor against a convicted felon is a winning strategy. Kate? 
 
BOLDUAN:  Eva, thank you so much. Much more to come. Really appreciate your reporting, as always. John?
 
BERMAN:  Terrific perspective there. 
 
So through all the upheaval the last month, one man has been on the leading edge of reporting on what might be about to happen next. That man is with us now, CNN chief national affairs correspondent Jeff Zeleny. Jeff, it is great to see you. And I mean everything I just said there. You have been pressing and pressing and pressing on this ever since that historic debate in June. So my question to you is, what now? What are you looking for? What are we about to see? 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, John, it's been remarkable at how swiftly the Democratic Party has coalesced behind Vice President Kamala Harris. For as long as those 24 days felt to many Democrats, yesterday was simply a time warp of how fast this came together. Really, you could just feel, just to talking to a variety of Democratic officials, elected officials, party leaders, this cloud lift from the party and a sense of optimism set in, and a sense of purpose.
 
However, going forward here in the next couple of days, what we have our eye on, is Vice President Harris going to complete her consolidation of the party? We saw one endorsement after another yesterday, really hour by hour by hour. We know she spent time on the phone, as Eva was saying there, with 100 different lawmakers, party officials, et cetera. 
 
So we also saw state delegations, these Democratic delegations coming out in support of her. I'm told hold more will do that today. Several are meeting today. So this idea of an open convention has largely been closed. She has the support of President Biden, which of course is key, and the support of labor unions and different groups. 
 
So the biggest challenge for her next is deciding, and she'll of course be doing this on her terms behind closed doors, finding a running mate yesterday, she started out as Joe Bidens running mate. Today, she is looking for one of her own. And that of course is top of mind for her and her biggest decision that voters will judge her on.
 
BERMAN:  Since I have you, I'm not going to let you go without a follow-up, Jeff. Who could be that running mate? Who are the top names being considered -- maybe not being considered, but being floated out there?
 <br>[08:10:04]
 
ZELENY:  Look, this isn't something that she just started thinking about yesterday. I mean, I think we have to look back to June 28th, perhaps even before that. Shed definitely played the role of loyal vice president, but of course she was thinking about what was to come. And the names of the potential candidates, likely looking to
 
 governors. Look at Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro, North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper. This is very interesting because she has an existing relationship with Roy Cooper. They both served as attorneys general together. Arizona Senator Mark Kelly as well, Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear. That is slightly more difficult because if he would be a pick, the lieutenant governor of Kentucky is a Republican. So would she want to sort of upset that.
 
Potential other governors as well, J.B. Pritzker from Illinois, perhaps Gretchen Whitmer from Michigan. That would certainly be historic in its own right. But really Shapiro and Cooper are people who many Democrats believe she has her eye on.
 
But going forward, I think also John, is it anyone else going to sort of stick their head up? Joe Manchin did a little bit. He put it right back down. He's not running. So as Elaine (ph) Kamer (ph) told you in the last hour, unlikely that any Democrat well challenge her in Chicago, John.
 
BERMAN:  Look, I'm glad you mentioned the Manchin thing because Manchin seemed to suggest to Kasie Hunt at 6:55, that he might be pursuing this. But at like 7:26 he says no. So Manchin, the Manchin balloon popped by Joe Manchin like 35 minutes after it was first inflated. 
 
Another the big thing that just happened, Jeff, and while we were just talking, Pete Aguilar, he is the senior most members in the House leadership, just backing the vice president there. So maybe we'll see more of the Democratic leadership coming out over the next few minutes as well. These things happening by the minute. Jeff, great to see you. Great work. Hopefully we'll get you back on with some new reporting soon. 
 
Sara? 
 
SIDNER:  Lots of excitement going on here and lots of changes. We'll have plenty of news for you to go out through the next couple of hours. 
 
Republicans have already, as you might imagine, begun their attacks on Vice President Kamala Harris. 
 
The Secret Service director is prepared to admit failures that allowed the assassination attempt on Donald Trump. What to expect from what is going to be an aggressive hearing on Capitol Hill.
 
And hundreds more flights canceled this good morning. How long are these folks going to have to wait after that I.T. issue that caused this chaos in airports? We'll talk all about those things and more coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: So far there have been overwhelming support from Democrats for Vice President Kamala Harris' brand new, less than a day-old presidential campaign.  
 
Minutes ago, Senator Joe Manchin clarified that he will not run for the White House. He was no longer a Democrat, however. So, does that mean that Harris has a clear path to clinch the nomination?  
 
Let us discuss with Democratic Congresswoman from Florida, Debbie Wasserman Schultz. Thank you so much for coming in this morning.  
 
REP. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (D-FL): Thanks for having me, Sara.  
 
SIDNER: Okay, we just got this is. This is just happening right now. Kathleen Clark, the Minority Whip, has backed Kamala Harris. Pete Aguilar has backed Kamala Harris. Do you expect all of the House leadership to endorse her this fast and very quickly?  
 
SCHULTZ: I do because Joe Biden and Kamala Harris together, have had the most successful administration in modern times and they are a team. His decision, which was selfless and put country over party to end his campaign and endorse Kamala Harris sends a very strong message, not only to our leadership, but to our convention delegates that his desire and his signal is that he'd like his delegates and our elected leaders across the country to support Kamala Harris as our Democratic Party nominee and I'm proud to endorse her and proud of our president.  
 
SIDNER: I do want to ask you about some of the attacks. As you might imagine, there are attacks from the other side of the aisle. They have begun, they actually began before she announced, but they are now in full swing. I want to get your response to them.  
 
One of the attacks is, hey, look at the Republicans. We just voted our guy in. The voters had a say, the Dems are just crowning someone that the voters did not choose. What is your response to that attack?  
 
SCHULTZ: Well, I mean that's a statement from a desperate party that just nominated a 34-count convicted felon who is an adjudicated rapist, and who has pledged to avenge his enemies -- his political enemies as soon as he takes office.  
 
Joe Biden and Kamala Harris ran together as a ticket. Our 14 million voters that nominated -- the vote that nominated Joe Biden, also supported Kamala Harris. She earned those votes right alongside him and she will earn the support of the majority, probably near unanimity of our convention delegates because they have earned that support through the success of their administration.  
 
The reduction in prescription drug costs, the capping of prescription drug costs in Medicare. The most gun -- significant gun safety reform in 30 years, reshoring American jobs through computer chips manufacturing here in the United States, investments in climate change, and infrastructure that were historic.  
 
This is a record that they ran on together, and Kamala Harris will carry that torch forward and she's earned the support of elected officials across the country and our convention delegates.  [08:20:10]  
 
SIDNER: It sounds like what you're saying is look, voters in the primaries voted for President Biden, but they know it's the Biden- Harris ticket in the end. They come as a package deal.  
 
SCHULTZ: Yes, her name is on the ballot, too.  
 
SIDNER: Right.  
 
SCHULTZ: I mean, when you go to a poll here in Florida, it is not just the president's name who is on the ballot, it's the vice president's name as well. It's a ticket that you're voting to support. So, it's a logical transfer to the vice president who -- look, if Joe Biden had not endorsed her, if there was not a situation where she had earned those votes, too, then I would say that, probably delegates would be more likely to think about other candidates.  
 
But Kamala Harris has fought side-by-side with Joe Biden, and she has helped adopt and push through the agenda that has made Americans' lives better.  
 
And she also is, I think our delegates and our elected officials very clearly understand that the contrast between a former attorney general in the largest state in the country, a former district attorney, someone who was prosecuting and putting bad guys in jail versus a president who is just convicted and could be sent to jail, a former president, that's a pretty clear contrast and the American people are going to choose law and order and safety and security and confidence rather than a choice of going back to a toxic stew of unethical criminality.  
 
SIDNER: Can I ask you about, you know, someone who wants to be in the position that Kamala Harris is in right now. Trump's vice presidential pick, JD Vance, has said that he tweeted out or X'ed it out or whatever the heck we call it these days, but here is what he said.  
 
He said, "She owns all of these failures and she lied for nearly four years about Biden's mental capacity, saddling the nation with a president who can't do the job."  
 
What do you say to him after he went after her for saying, hey, you hid this from us basically, what was happening with President Biden?  
 
SCHULTZ: I say that JD Vance's hypocrisy is breathtaking. This is a guy that less than a year-and-a-half ago was one of the number one opponents of Donald Trump. He could not possibly have said or have had hurled more criticism at someone who is now his running mate.  
 
This is someone who is a chameleon, who is willing to stay and do anything to attain power and that is just another example of how unethical and slimy the Republican ticket is.  
 
We've got integrity and solidarity and experience in Joe Biden and Kamala Harris and like I said, along the campaign trail as the campaign progresses, certainly after, hopefully in my opinion, Kamala Harris is elected as our party's nominee, we will see the contrast that will be very clear.  
 
SIDNER: Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, thank you so much for coming and talking to us this morning, appreciate your time, Congresswoman -- Kate.  
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Donald Trump is on the attack and so are House Republicans. The case that they're trying to make now to get President Biden out of the White House before January.  
 
And dangerous heat continues today fueling wildfires. So far this year, 63 large fires have burned more than a million acres. Two fires in Riverside County, California, now forcing more than a thousand homes to be evacuated.  
 
We'll be right back.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:28:01]  
 
BOLDUAN: This morning, Donald Trump's campaign is making a pivot quickly, trying to shift from attacking President Biden to now attacking Kamala Harris.  
 
One pro-Trump super PAC is already putting out a new ad attacking her record and the White House and accusing her of covering up Joe Biden's "obvious mental decline."  
 
CNN's Steve Contorno is in Ohio where JD Vance is holding -- going to be holding his first solo campaign event since becoming Donald Trump's running mate. What are you expecting to hear -- Steve.  
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Well, Kate, Donald Trump's campaign really began preparing for this outcome, several weeks ago when they realized that the Democratic hand-wringing over Joe Biden's debate performance was not subsiding and during that time, they began researching some of the other potential Democrats who might replace Joe Biden, including Governors Whitmer and Shapiro, Governor Andy Beshear, Senator Kelly of Arizona.  
 
But really their focus intensified from the beginning on Vice President Harris, and they put out an internal poll looking at Donald Trump versus Harris and they also began increasing the number of times they were attacking her in their campaign rhetoric. You saw at the Republican National Convention, no Democrat was criticized more than Joe Biden, except Kamala Harris. So, she's definitely been on their mind for a while.  
 
And now we are seeing already a super PAC MAGA Inc. up on the air with an ad criticizing her over her relationship with Joe Biden. Take a look at what it said.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
VOICE OVER: Kamala knew Joe couldn't do the job. So, she did it. Look what she got done -- a border invasion, runaway inflation, the American Dream, dead.  
 
They created this mess. They know Kamala owns this failed record.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
CONTORNO: Now that ad will be airing in Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, and Pennsylvania. Obviously, four huge key battlegrounds.  
 
They are also planning to attack her on some of the issues that they were going to attack Joe Biden over immigration, crime, the economy. But this is going to be a very different campaign going forward.  
 
You think back to the convention, there were so many effecting moments attacking Joe Biden over his Afghanistan record, from the families of the soldiers who died there.  
 <br>[08:30:14]