Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Princess Of Wales Says She's Completed Chemotherapy Treatment; Harris And Trump face Off In Critical Debate Tuesday Night; Wildfires And record Heat Force Thousands To Evacuate; Venezuelan Opposition Leader Forced To Flee Amid Threats; One Day Until Debate, Race Is A Virtual Tie; Manhunt Underway For Interstate Shooting Suspect In Kentucky; Aired 12-1p ET

Aired September 09, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:32]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is CNN Breaking News.
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: Hello, everyone. Live from New York, I'm Bianna Golodryga.
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN HOST: And I'm Zain Asher. You are watching ONE WORLD.
 
I want to begin with breaking news from the British royal family. The Princess of Wales says that she has now finished her chemotherapy treatment 
 
 for cancer.
 
GOLODRYGA: It's really long awaited for good news. Speaking through Kensington Palace, the Duchess of Cambridge says that she will gradually 
 
 return to public life in the months ahead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KATE MIDDLETON, MEMBER OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY: Life as you know, it can change in an instant. And we've had to find a way to navigate the 
 
 stormy waters and road unknown.
 
The cancer journey is complex, scary, and unpredictable for everyone, especially those closest to you.
 
With humility, it also brings us to face to face with your own vulnerabilities in a way you've never considered before.
 
And with that, a new perspective on everything.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is this filming?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hello. Hello.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right. CNN's royal historian, Kate Williams, is standing by for us. But first, let's bring in CNN's royal correspondent, Max Foster.
 
So, Max, anyone who's had a family member with cancer knows how much it really changes you. It changes you emotionally. It really gives you clarity 
 
 about what does and what does not matter in life.
 
Kate is, of course, a notoriously private person. And I think this is the most vulnerable that I've ever seen her. Take us through it.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. I mean, I think that's on purpose because she's aware that the public wants updates on her health. She is 
 
 going to be future queen. And, you know, British taxpayers have a right to that as well. But she's also got this very private side to her. And she's 
 
 been so concerned about the kids and making sure they get through this psychologically.
 
So she's tried to have as normal a life as a mother as she can in recent months. And she actually pays credit to that for helping in this recovery.
 
Also being out there in nature, which we saw from that video, that's really helped her. And she has finished this course of chemotherapy. We don't know 
 
 what other treatments she might be on. They're not describing this cancer free because they say that's a phrase that has to be sort of signed off by 
 
 experts.
 
But they are saying that she's reached a major milestone here. And it allows her to go back to work on light duties, which may be canceled at the 
 
 last moment because she wants to focus on making a full recovery.
 
So she won't be going on foreign trips, but we will be seeing her at major family events and perhaps some of her key charity events as well. We'll 
 
 wait to see.
 
But it's really in that video, isn't it? How's she's trying to express herself. Thank other cancer sufferers for their support through this 
 
 process. And also to share what it's like to raise awareness about what it's like to suffer from cancer and go through the lows as well as the 
 
 highs. So here's another bit of that video.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIDDLETON: Although I finished chemotherapy, my path to healing and full recovery is long. And I must continue to take each day as it comes.
 
I am, however, looking forward to being back at work and undertaking a few more public engagements in the coming months when I can.
 
Despite all that's gone before, I enter this new phase of recovery with a renewed sense of hope and appreciation of life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: And that was actually filmed last month, Zain, near the country home in Norfolk in England.
 
GOLODRYGA: Kate, it's a really beautifully captured video montage of the family that doesn't give off signs of a royal family, but that of an 
 
 everyday young family that has been stricken by something shocking and frightening like cancer.
 
One thing that stood out to me in this video is Kate herself saying that this journey has brought her a new perspective on everything.
 
And I'm just wondering, given the reality, given that they are indeed the royal family, how will people in England receive this news, and the fact 
 
 that if she's looking at it from a different perspective, will they?
 
KATE WILLIAMS, CNN ROYAL HISTORIAN: As she said, Bianna, this is a beautiful video. It's three minutes long. It's all these beautiful shots of 
 
 them in Norfolk, as Max was saying, near their country house, Anmer Hall.
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
And really so much emotion, so much vulnerability here from Kate, giving us a side that we've never seen to her being so honest about what she's being 
 
 to -- being to that has been incredibly tough for them as a family, that the cancer journey is complex, scary, and unpredictable.
 
As we know, cancer is tough for everyone and it's very tough when you have small children to tie and explain to them what the situation is.
 
And looking at her, a new sense of hope. And this emphasis, as you were saying, on the new perspective that she had, that it really makes you think 
 
 about what's important and that's loved and being loved.
 
And certainly for her what's important for her, as she says, staying cancer-free, moving into the next phase of this recovery and focusing on 
 
 how she can get totally healed, totally better. And this is really taking things day by day in terms of engagements.
 
And I think there's such sympathy for Kate and the British public. There's so much sympathy for her across the world. This young, vibrant mother going 
 
 through what she's going through.
 
And people won't want to see her back until she's ready. And we are understand that it's very likely that we might see her in small engagements 
 
 with her charities, perhaps nearby her home in Windsor.
 
And at the moment, it's probably quite likely that we'll see her in November for Remembrance Sunday. And also for her beloved carol service in 
 
 December. We hope to see her there. And those I think people will be just overjoyed to see Kate there, out there, you know, doing what she loves 
 
 best, working, meeting the people because she knows that she's always been a huge popular favorite of the people.
 
But now she has -- you know, she's there with people. She has other people on the cancer journey and she's there with them. And that means a lot 
 
 because so many people are going through to cancer or caring for those who are suffering. And it's a big part of all of our lives in the modern world.
 
ASHER: And, Max, just to sort of jump off of Bianna's question. Why do you think it was important for Kate to release the information in this 
 
 particular way, right? It's not a written statement, you know, five sentences long from the palace. It's not her sitting on a park bench, for 
 
 example, like we saw several months ago when she first announced that she'd been diagnosed with cancer.
 
This is releasing information in a way that I've never really seen the royal family do before. This is obviously her in her element, out in 
 
 nature. There's no pomp, there's no circumstance. You wouldn't know. If you didn't know who these people were, you wouldn't know necessarily that they 
 
 were members of the British Royal Family.
 
Just explain to us why, why this method to release this information?
 
FOSTER: Well, you're talking about that her perspective on things changing. I mean, the family, the immediate family was always the priority, but she's 
 
 made it even more of a priority and that she credits them with helping her heal, you know, having a -- you know, going to sports matches at school, 
 
 going on the school run, living a normal life, spending time out there in nature in Norfolk, in particular, because they have their country house 
 
 there. And they got privacy there, but they're allowed to walk amongst communities without getting too much fuzz as well.
 
I think, you know -- that I think the priority here for the palace was not to control it. This was a private matter. And they wanted the Princess to 
 
 decide how it was done. And that was really tough, particularly earlier this year after she announced she was -- she had been in the hospital.
 
But before they announced that she had cancer and there was so much speculation and conspiracy theory which was, you know, really upsetting to 
 
 them.
 
And also a worry in the sense that they didn't want their subjects to worry unnecessarily and these conspiracy theories did create a lot of that.
 
So when it came to messaging, sitting on the bench in this video as well, it had to be from the heart. It had to be open and honest to show that 
 
 she's sharing as much as she possibly can. Whereas a statement might have felt as if they were holding information back and will encourage the 
 
 conspiracy theorists.
 
And what they really do is reaching out to rational thoughtful people to take what she said in that video and just leave it there not speculate 
 
 about anything else is happening behind the scenes. And to just go with the Princess on this.
 
And by having complete control over the message, not being affected by anyone else. I think you do feel that. It does feel authentic, it feels 
 
 honest, and she's really explaining where she is right now.
 
ASHER: All right. Max Foster live for us there. Kate Williams, thank you both so much.
 
GOLODRYGA: What may be their one and only chance to speak to American voters nationwide about their policies, their plans, and their vision for 
 
 the future, while being in the same room.
 
ASHER: Yes. When Kamala Harris and Donald Trump take the debate stage In Philadelphia on Tuesday night, it will mark a pivotal moment and a possible 
 
 turning point in a race that is now pretty much neck and neck.
 
Kamala says that she's expecting Trump to resort his tried playbook and attack her racial and gender identity. But the vice president says it's 
 
 time to turn the page on political division.
 <br>[12:10:10]
 
GOLODRYGA: Trump is taking a very different approach, though. He spent the weekend threatening to jail election officials, vowing to pardon January 6 
 
 rioters and railing against the women who accused him of sexual misconduct. And as they frequently do, his attacks turn personal.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We're run by stupid people, stupid, stupid people. And we found that out at the debate with 
 
 Joe. How did that work out? And we're going to find it out again on Tuesday night. Is anybody going to be watching?
 
Oh, they're waiting for the debate. You know, if I destroy her in the debate, they'll say, Trump suffered a humiliating defeat tonight. No matter 
 
 what.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: The Harris campaign, meanwhile, has released a new ad featuring scathing assessments of Trump from former officials in his own 
 
 administration.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In 2016, Donald Trump said he would choose only the best people to work in his White House. Now those people have a warning for 
 
 America. Trump is not fit to be president again. Here's his vice president.
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Anyone who puts himself over the constitution should never be president of the United 
 
 States.
 
It should come as no surprise that I will not be endorsing Donald Trump this year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: His defense secretary.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: Do you think Trump can be trusted with the nation's secrets ever again?
 
MARK ESPER, FORMER UNITED STATES DEFENSE SECRETARY: No. I mean, it's just irresponsible action that places our service members at risk, places our 
 
 nation's security at risk.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: His national security adviser.
 
JOHN BOLTON, FORMER UNITED STATES AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS: Donald Trump will cause a lot of damage.
 
The only thing he cares about is Donald Trump.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Now underscoring the importance of Tuesday night's debate, there is still no clear leader in this razor-thin race, but a new CNN poll of 
 
 polls gives Trump a slight bump.
 
ASHER: CNN's Eva McKend is in Pittsburgh, where the vice president is preparing for the debate. Steve Contorno joins us live in St. Petersburg, 
 
 Florida.
 
Steve, let me start with you. Because obviously the question that everyone's been asking is, how on earth do you prepare to debate someone 
 
 like Donald Trump?
 
I think that what's interesting going into this is that, obviously, Donald Trump has been part of the public eye for more than 40 years. And he's been 
 
 part of presidential politics for at least eight years.
 
So the opinions about him are really baked in. Kamala Harris, not so much. She has a real opportunity here. How does she capitalize on that? And also, 
 
 how does Donald Trump use the fact that he is a known quantity to his advantage as well?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Well, he's -- like you said, he's been in this situation many times before. No other presidential candidate has 
 
 debated as much as Donald Trump.
 
From what we're hearing from his advisers though, they still believe that they need to go on the offensive in helping the country get to know Kamala 
 
 Harris for the first time. Many people are still saying in these polls that they would like to hear more about her. Well, Donald Trump wants to try to 
 
 define her during this debate.
 
And there's two approaches they're going to take to do that. One is by tying her to the Joe Biden administration in these past four years, 
 
 especially on economy, on crime, on immigration. Those are areas where they believe that they are on solid ground to go on the attack.
 
They also intend to put her past record and stances in the spotlight and try to make sure that voters remember the types of issues that she stood 
 
 out and campaigned for when she was a candidate for president in 2020. She was vocally in support of a ban on fracking. She had taken stances that 
 
 aligned herself with the defend -- defund the police movement.
 
Those are the areas where Donald Trump believes that if they can try to convince voters that she is more like that person and less like who she has 
 
 put forward over the past three months, that they will be successful.
 
Now, the concern is that Donald Trump is always liable to go on the attack in a very personal, mean-spirited, sexist, racist way. And that is -- they 
 
 were trying to steer him away from going in that direction and more toward where they feel more comfortable being on the attack.
 
But because it's Donald Trump, and who knows what he's going to say at any given moment, we'll have to wait till tomorrow night to find out whether or 
 
 not he is able to do that.
 
GOLODRYGA: To quote Donald Trump, we shall see.
 
Let's turn to Eva McKend, who is covering Kamala Harris and her preparation for this debate.
 
And, Eva, you know, Kamala has said that she views herself and her campaign as the underdog right now. We mentioned the CNN Poll of Polls. The New York 
 
 Times/Siena College also has a poll out over the weekend showing some real vulnerabilities for her, specifically given that the majority of those 
 
 polls say that they would like to see somebody elected who is a candidate of change.
 
And at least according to this poll, only 25 percent of those poll view Kamala Harris as that person. More than 50 percent view Donald Trump in 
 
 that way.
 
In addition, he still has the upper hand when it comes to approval rating regarding the economy. What is she focusing on to change that narrative?
 <br>[12:15:05]
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianna, they are well aware of the vulnerabilities. Part of the strategy is to just do 
 
 really well at this upcoming debate. That is why she strenuously has prepared.
 
So she has spent the last several days really studying how the former president performed in the past six presidential debates that he's 
 
 participated in.
 
She's been engaged in these mock debate sessions with someone who has stood in for the former president. And she's also been in conversation with 
 
 Hillary Clinton and President Biden, who, as you know, both have extensive experience debating the former president.
 
Ultimately, the goal here is not only to forcefully make the case against Trump, but to also use that platform to argue that the country needs to 
 
 leave behind the politics of Donald Trump, the divisiveness of that era and usher in a new way forward in a Harris administration.
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Eva McKend, Steve Contorno, thank you both.
 
ASHER: All right. Thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes by a growing wildfire in Southern California. This forecast is worn of 
 
 record heat over the next few days.
 
Check out these flames from earlier in Santa Bernardino County. This is near Los Angeles. The line fire has burned about 9,000 hectares and is 
 
 threatening more than 36,000 homes and businesses too.
 
GOLODRYGA: Huge, huge surges of smoke also making it difficult to breathe for residents. At least three people have been injured. And California's 
 
 governor has now declared a state of emergency.
 
So let's go to CNN's Camila Bernal. She is in Running Springs, California in San Bernardino County.
 
Camila, really a rough weekend and a rough start to a new week there, especially in terms of schoolchildren just coming back for the New Year.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. So many people under evacuation orders or warnings. And as you mentioned, the schools closed in 
 
 this area.
 
And you also mentioned that state of emergency. Well, that has also been beneficial because it allowed for more resources. Yesterday there were 
 
 about 600 personnel firefighters on the ground.
 
Today, we woke up with about 1,800 of them. So that plus a little bit of better weather has really helped. And it's been the first day that we hear 
 
 some optimism from these firefighters who now say we're at three percent containment.
 
It's a small number, but it's an increase from that zero percent that we had since this fire started on Thursday.
 
Now, there are still a lot of challenges and as you see where I am right now, the area is very mountainous and very steep.
 
So firefighters have to either walk into these areas or they have to get flown into these areas. So that's one of the challenges. The other 
 
 challenge is the weather.
 
It is extremely hot here in Southern California. We're talking triple digit temperatures. And the lows just in the 80s, so it's draining for those 
 
 firefighters who are here. This is above average for this time of year.
 
And then also the weather that this fire has created also brings in some thunderstorms and that means there's lightning in this area. That could 
 
 start new fires. And the wind that comes with that storm also means that the flames spread into areas where the firefighters do not know how to 
 
 predict where it's going. And so they don't know exactly where to place those crews.
 
So I want you to take a listen to what Cal Fire had told me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRENT PASCUA, CAL FIRE BATTALION CHIEF: Each night's going to get cooler and easier for our crews to get in there and get some containment.
 
We still have the threat of thunderstorms this afternoon, so we still have to maintain our situational awareness for that.
 
We have not only the fuels and the steep topography and the heat to deal with. We have thunderstorms. So again, we're just really prepared.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: So they've also placed crews near homes in order to keep them safe. So far, the good news is that all of the homes have been safe and they're 
 
 hoping that that continues to be the case.
 
But there are thousands under these evacuation warnings or orders and they're telling people you have to be ready to go at a moment's notice.
 
Guys, back to you.
 
GOLODRYGA: Really important to heed local authorities' warnings there.
 
Camila Bernal, thank you so much.
 
And still to come for us, as hundreds gather at a vigil for the victims of a deadly school shooting in Georgia, we're getting details of a chilling 
 
 warning by the suspected -- the suspect's mother.
 
Also ahead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNTER WOODHALL, AMERICAN PARALYMPIC ATHLETE: Me and Tara could sit on the porch and watch sunsets every day like we love just being around each 
 
 other, spending time together and our personalities just kind of -- we just work together.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Oh, cute. Oh, my gosh.
 
Olympian Hunter Woodhall speaks to CNN about the unique relationship he shares with another gold medalist, his wife.
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
More of our interview on Team USA's ultimate power couple later on this hour.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. This is the face of Venezuela's opposition leader. He has been forced to flee to Spain.
 
Edmundo Gonzalez says he was facing threats to keep him from leaving over Venezuela's disputed presidential election.
 
GOLODRYGA: And an audio note shared with CNN, Gonzalez says he won't stop fighting for freedom in his home country. Here's what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EDMUNDO GONZALEZ, VENEZUELAN OPPOSITION LEADER (through translator): I wanted to inform you that I arrived to Madrid today in the morning. My 
 
 departure from Caracas was surrounded by episodes of pressure, coercion, and threats that I wouldn't be allowed to leave. I trust that we'll soon 
 
 continue the fight for liberty and the return to democracy in Venezuela. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Brett Bruen is a former member of the U.S. National Security Council. He's also a former U.S. diplomat who has worked on crises in 
 
 Venezuela. And he joins us now from New York.
 
So let's start with the facts, because we do know that Gonzalez won by more than a two to one margin. And this is from voting machine receipts that the 
 
 opposition was able to gather after the election. Nonetheless, we know how that has resulted. And he obviously left the country for safety reasons.
 
How big of a setback is this for the opposition movement, especially given the track record of other leaders who have fled the country for their own 
 
 safety, ultimately not gaining that leadership role that even Western allies in many other countries acknowledge they had?
 
BRETT BRUEN, FORMER U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL OFFICIAL: Well, I think it's not only a setback for the opposition in Venezuela. It's a setback for 
 
 the international community who has, over the course of the last few weeks, tried to put pressure on Nicolas Maduro and on his regime to see, to 
 
 acknowledge the results of the election, just to release the results of the election. And yet, they have failed to do so.
 
And now we end up in this situation where Edmundo Gonzalez has to flee the country after being persecuted by the regime.
 
So at this point, the question really needs to be posed to the international community, what are you going to do? Because if we accept 
 
 that a dictatorship can return to the Americas, that Venezuela, which is already sent tens of millions of refugees fleeing across the border, both 
 
 to neighbors, as well as up north to the United States, I mean, this problem is going to compound itself by about tenfold.
 <br>[12:25:03]
 
ASHER: And just in terms of how he continues to fight while in Spain. I mean, obviously in that audio note, you just heard him say, listen, despite 
 
 where I am in the world, even though I'm moving to Spain, I am going to continue to prioritize and fight for democracy in my home country of 
 
 Venezuela.
 
How easy or difficult is that to do remotely, essentially in exile?
 
BRUEN: Well, you know, it's interesting. I talked to the former interim president of Venezuela, Juan Guaido, just after he had fled the country.
 
In fact, he had to flee over land. He brought his two small children with him later on. I mean, this, quite frankly, is a devastating blow for the 
 
 hope that we were going to see some sort of orderly transition.
 
I think what he will try to do is to, you know, circle the globe, to meet with different leaders in Europe, as well as here in the United States and 
 
 the Americas, and press the case in person that they have to do more.
 
GOLODRYGA: And, obviously, Juan Guaido and his fleeing the country happened under the Trump administration, and we famously remember the documents that 
 
 national security advisor John Bolton had been spotted walking around with suggesting that the U.S. would possibly even send troops to Venezuela.
 
That never materialized, but to your earlier point about what will the international community led by the United States for something he do. What 
 
 are their options at this point? And is there really an appetite in your view?
 
We've got an election coming up here, either Trump again, or Kamala Harris administration.
 
Do you think that they have the appetite to actually do something more significant than has been done?
 
BRUEN: Well, I think several things. One, obviously, we already have substantial sanctions in place against Venezuela. Some of them were rolled 
 
 back in an effort to try to incentivize the Maduro regime to hold legitimate elections, which obviously didn't transpire.
 
I think we've got to look at how we ratchet those up, but also some of the pressure on Maduro himself, as well as some key military figures, because 
 
 they are the ones who ultimately are wielding the most power in this situation.
 
If the military decides that it's time for a change, then Maduro is going to have to go. And I think we've got to employ some creative thinking here.
 
How can we incentivize some of those military leaders, other officials to abandon Maduro and to, you know, thereby to destabilize and to weaken his 
 
 control and power?
 
ASHER: And beyond what the U.S. can do, what about other Latin American countries, just in terms of the options that they have here?
 
BRUEN: Well, let's bear in mind that Lula da Silva in Brazil, the neighbors across the Americas, are some of the key players here, and they've tried a 
 
 variety of negotiation tactics, suggesting maybe even we should have a redo of the elections, which I don't think is a thing in democracy, but they are 
 
 trying to find a graceful exit for Maduro to leave power.
 
They have to redouble those efforts, but I think Western powers are going to have to insist that we are just not going to abide by the status quo, 
 
 because that's what Maduro and his cronies in Caracas are counting on.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. And, clearly, that's going to require more than just seizing a $12 million personal plane and jet of Maduro's, because 
 
 notwithstanding any drastic measures, he will be sworn in for a third, six- year term come January, despite the fact that we know that the results showed otherwise in the election.
 
Brett Bruen, former National Security Council and U.S. State Department official, thank you so much for the time.
 
BRUEN: Sure thing.
 
ASHER: All right. Donald Trump faces a new round of criticism, this time from people inside his own party.
 
Can Republican voices convince Americans to vote for a Democrat? That story, when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:05]
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Welcome back to ONE WORLD. I'm Bianna Golodryga.
 
ASHER: I'm Zain Asher.
 
Donald Trump gets ready for that big debate against Kamala Harris tomorrow. He's facing growing opposition from inside his own party.
 
GOLODRYGA: And former Republican Congressman Liz Cheney and her father, the former vice president Dick Cheney, both said that they would not be voting 
 
 for Trump this time around.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIZ CHENEY, FORMER UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE: I've never voted for a Democrat.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wow.
 
CHENEY: And it tells you, I think, the stakes in this election. You know, Donald Trump presents a challenge and a threat fundamentally to the 
 
 republic.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Trump's counter to these Republican voices is to bring out a one-time Democrat. Former Congressman Tulsi Gabbard has been a prominent 
 
 part of Trump's debate prep team.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TULSI GABBARD, FORMER UNITED STATE REPRESENTATIVE: He is looking forward to this debate, and he is looking forward to focusing on Kamala Harris' record
 
And as you've said a few times this morning, Ainsley, since I've been watching, why hasn't she fixed the things that she is now saying or broken 
 
 over the last three and a half years? She is the incumbent candidate in this race. She is vice president Kamala Harris. And she has had the 
 
 opportunity over these three and a half years, especially with Joe Biden to have already brought about the kinds of changes that she is now promising 
 
 that she will do in her, quote-unquote, new way forward.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right. Time now for The Exchange. Joining us live now is Lance Trover. He's a Republican communications consultant, and the former 
 
 spokesperson for Doug Burgum's 2024 presidential campaign.
 
Lance, thank you so much for being with us. Obviously, it is really difficult to prepare to debate someone like Donald Trump because, quite 
 
 frankly, you have no idea what he's going to say. And so that is a challenge for Kamala Harris.
 
My question is, how the -- how do the people who are preparing Donald Trump get him to stay on message? Because my guess is the idea of attacking her 
 
 race or her gender is not going to win him over when it comes to independence in this race.
 
LANCE TROVER, FORMER SPOKESPERSON, DOUG BURGUM'S 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN: Well, I think you made an understatement there in terms of what 
 
 Donald Trump's going to say at the debate tomorrow night. No one really knows, but I will tell you this.
 
Voters going into this know who Donald Trump is. So I'm less concerned about what he's going to say tomorrow night.
 
I think that what voters are going into is particularly if you look at "The New York Times" poll that came out this weekend. Voters are really going in 
 
 to check in on Kamala Harris and see what it is she stands for in this race.
 
I think that she's got a heavy lift in terms of convincing folks that she's not the person that she's been in terms of her progressive past as a United 
 
 States Senator, the campaign she ran for president, and what she's trying to now position herself as a moderate in this campaign for president.
 
So I think more voters are likely focused on Donald -- or on Kamala Harris and what she's going to say tomorrow night and less on Donald Trump.
 
GOLODRYGA: Lance, at that point on the issue of how much voters actually focus on policy specific issues.
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
You look back to 2016 debates between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. Can you, off the top of your head, think of any specific policies that 
 
 Republicans who have been undecided at the time immediately realized they were turned off by her and gave Donald Trump a chance over?
 
And I'm asking that seriously because I'm wondering, at the end of the day, when we're going to be analyzing this debate in the days and weeks to come, 
 
 likely the only between the two of them, how much of the focus really among those undecided voters will be on specific policies?
 
TROVER: If you look at "The New York Times" poll from over the weekend, and I think you look at all of the polling. I mean, everybody knows Donald 
 
 Trump. And almost everybody has an opinion of Donald Trump. Like him, hate him, there's very little in between.
 
And that's why I say I think the focus is on her tomorrow night. If you also dig deeper into that poll, many voters are saying they don't know a 
 
 lot about her, so I think they are coming in to learn about her and her particular policies.
 
If you look at the numbers in that poll, he's now viewed as the change agent. He is viewed as the center or the more moderate of the two 
 
 candidates. Those are things that she's going to have to work on and change tomorrow night.
 
So I think, in this instance, the debate tomorrow night will have a bigger emphasis on policy, mainly because granted she's only been in the race 
 
 seven weeks, but mainly because she's not put out a ton of policy proposals out there. And I think voters are looking for that type of policy proposal 
 
 from her.
 
ASHER: Well, the policy that I think that is going to really shape the outcome of a selection is, of course, in part women's rights and that is an 
 
 area which obviously Kamala Harris has a massive advantage.
 
What does Donald Trump need to say or I guess not say in order to level the playing field in that particular focal point?
 
TROVER: Well, I think -- I think reproductive -- all that stuff. Abortion is a very important issue.
 
The number one issue out there right now, according to voters, is the economy and Donald Trump leads on that front by 15, 16 points, double 
 
 digits.
 
I also think Trump, look, he's evolved on this issue like anybody else on any other number of issues and says it's a state's rights issue. I think he 
 
 needs to say it's a state's rights issue and I'm not going to sign a national abortion ban. I think if he sticks to that, that's a safe space 
 
 for him to be in tomorrow night.
 
GOLODRYGA: What do you plan to hear from him that we haven't heard thus far about the economy? I mean aside from saying this is the worst economy, 
 
 we're on the verge of a recession which the majority of economists would disagree with.
 
I give you the fact that people are still concerned about prices and inflation though that too has tempered over the last six months or so.
 
What specifically do you think he should be saying about the economy when it comes to key metrics?
 
TROVER: I think, again, you nailed it. I mean, the economists say the economy is on good footing. We can, you know, have that debate. But it is 
 
 the cost of living that is driving why people are so unhappy.
 
Again, I keep going back to this "New York Times" poll because it's so fresh. People are very unhappy with the direction of the country mainly 
 
 because of the cost of living here in America.
 
I think you will probably hear him again go back to talking about how we need to renew the Trump tax cuts. It's something a certain divide for he 
 
 and Kamala Harris on this front. And I think you're going to hear him talk about, look, this is the last time we need to be raising taxes on the 
 
 American voter out there.
 
ASHER: Just in terms of the minute by minute, right, minute by minute second by second strategy for Kamala Harris. When he attacks her which, of 
 
 course, we know that he will, does she attack back? Because, obviously, there is something to be said for rising above.
 
But again, if you ignore it, you could end up looking weak. So, what is the right strategy to navigate that do you think, Lance?
 
TROVER: Far be it for me to give Kamala Harris any debate advice. I mean, that as a -- as a Republican.
 
Well, look, that's -- look, that's where the Democrats have had a lot of problems with facing off with Donald Trump, right? Is he's kind of a guy 
 
 who's all over the place. He has his own way, his own version of preparing, which he says are rallies and speeches and meeting with voters and the 
 
 like.
 
So I think it's a fine line that she has to walk. But again, I think the bigger issue for her here is, she's got a past, a voting record in the 
 
 Senate which was one of the most liberal ever. She ran a very progressive campaign for president of the United States. She's been Joe Biden's vice 
 
 president.
 
I think where she's the bigger issue for her is going to be, how does she separate herself from all of that? That's what she wants to do. And I think 
 
 that's the heavy lift that she has in trying to distance herself from all of these policies that she's taken. And I think she's going to have a 
 
 really tough time with voters given her track record.
 
GOLODRYGA: Democrats have called themselves a big tent party. And I think that's a fair description, especially going into this election now that you 
 
 have the likes of Bernie Sanders and Dick Cheney voting for the same person.
 
Just I'm asking you as a communique of Republican and a communications consultant. How do you justify seeing some of the most ardent conservative 
 
 Republicans expressing concern, expressing alarm about some of the policies they are worried that Donald Trump will pursue if he gets another chance at 
 
 the White House?
 <br>[12:40:03]
 
TROVER: Well, my response will be you just had Tulsi Gabbard on at the top of this piece that we're doing right here. RFK Jr. is endorsing Donald 
 
 Trump. I mean, the argument could be from the Republicans as it were just as much as they can -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: They never sat as close to the White House, though, as the Vice President of the United States.
 
TROVER: That may be true. But again, if you look at any poll from -- you know, the idea that the Republican Party is somehow not united behind 
 
 Donald Trump, just doesn't bear itself out in the polling.
 
I mean, yes, you have some of these folks who don't like him, who certainly have worked with him and don't care for him. I mean, that's their 
 
 prerogative.
 
But clearly, it's not having an effect on the voters out there right now when a poll comes out just yesterday showing him beating Kamala Harris by 
 
 one point nationally.
 
ASHER: All right. Lance Trover, Republican communications consultant, thank you so much. We want to see what comes out of that debate tomorrow. 
 
 Appreciate you being on the program.
 
GOLODRYGA: Thanks, Lance.
 
TROVER: Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA: And tune in for special coverage of the ABC News presidential debate simulcast right here on CNN. It will air Tuesday at 9:00 P.M. 
 
 Eastern. And we will replay the debate at 2:00 P.M. Eastern on Wednesday. That's 7:00 P.M. in London, 10:00 P.M. in Abu Dhabi.
 
ASHER: So you can't miss it. You have no excuse.
 
GOLODRYGA: No excuse. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, as it sparked fresh protests over how police in America treat people of color. The federal trial is underway in Memphis, Tennessee 
 
 in a brutal case of police beating.
 
ASHER: Now, Tyre Nichols, a 29-year-old black man was violently and repeatedly kicked and punched by officers after a traffic stop and a brief 
 
 foot chase. Nichols died in hospital three days later. This happened last year, January.
 
GOLODRYGA: Five former Memphis police officers were fired in charge with four criminal counts. Two former officers later took plea deals. The 
 
 federal grand jury indicted them last year.
 
I want to show you a part of the video captured from an officer's patrol car on the night of the shooting. We're going to warn you, though, that a 
 
 lot of you may find the video and the language really disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:45:05]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tase you.  Now, get on of the ground.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stop.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right now. I'll tase you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right. OK. All right. OK, dude. Damn.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Turn the fuck around. Put your fucking hands on your back. Put your hands on your back.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK. Stop.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: All five former officers also face separate counts of murder, assault, and kidnapping at the state level.
 
Now a manhunt for a suspect accused of opening fire on an interstate highway in Central Kentucky has entered its third day. There's now a 
 
 $10,000 reward offered.
 
Police say Joseph Couch fired a semi-automatic rifle at 12 vehicles Saturday, injuring five people near the town of London.
 
ASHER: Authorities say he was perched on a cliff along the side of the highway when he opened fire. Classes are cancelled with students across a 
 
 huge portion of Central Kentucky and residents are on high alert, as officials desperately search the area.
 
GOLODRYGA:  CNN's Gloria Pazmino is following the story for us. And we remember the sniper shooting around the D.C. area and how that really 
 
 traumatized the entire area and region until the suspects were caught. How is this impacting the local community?
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bianna, that's a great example. And that is part of the reason this community remains on edge, right? The 
 
 suspect remains at large. Police have not been able to capture him.
 
They're not even sure if he remains in the same area. However, they have been focused on one specific plot of land along where the shooting 
 
 happened. Because they believe that's where he was perched and where he sat -- where he shot from.
 
It's also where they found his abandoned vehicle. And that's been a key piece of evidence to help them connect this incident back to the man they 
 
 say is their primary suspect.
 
His name is Joseph Couch. You're seeing him there on the screen. He's 32 years old. He served in the National Guard and he has a military 
 
 background.
 
Now police were also able to recover the weapon they believe was used in this incident. An AR-15 style rifle was recovered.
 
Now it's not clear to law enforcement, but they are operating under the assumption that he is armed and dangerous and that's what's put in this 
 
 community at edge. Schools were canceled today and police are being -- are asking the community to remain vigilant.
 
Take a listen from -- take a listen to the law enforcement officers talking about what their message is to the community and their message to Joseph 
 
 Couch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RICHARD DALRYMPLE, LAUREL COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE: Terrain at Exit 49 where we believe the shots had come from, very unforgiving terrain, not a safe 
 
 place to put people in the dark searching for a needle in a haystack.
 
SCOTTIE PENNINGTON, KENTUCKY STATE POLICE SPOKESPERSON: Well, my message would be that we would ask that he would give himself up. And we're not 
 
 going to quit until we do lay hands on him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAZMINO: Now in addition to that $10,000 reward that they are now offering for any information that may lead to his arrest, they have also issued an 
 
 arrest warrant for Joseph Couch. He has been charged with five counts of attempted murder and five counts of assault and that's according to the 
 
 Commonwealth Attorney for Laurel and Knox Counties.
 
One important point to mention, in all of this, is that the search is entering its third day now because the area where they're searching is 
 
 extremely rugged, a lot of woods, a lot of trees and that is making the job of these law enforcement officers very difficult.
 
They've also had to wrap up at night, only able to do it when the sun is up so that is certainly complicating this whole operation.
 
GOLODRYGA: All right. Gloria Pazmino, thank you.
 
And this to bring you just into CNN, a judge has granted a change of venue motion for the trial of Bryan Kohberger. He's the man charged with the 
 
 brutal killings of four University of Idaho students two years ago.
 
ASHER: Now the judge has evidence presented in a survey commissioned by Kohberger's defense contributed to his decision. He said the extreme nature 
 
 of the news coverage, plus a small population in the county could compromise the fairness of the trial. Agreeing that it should actually be 
 
 held elsewhere.
 
And we're getting new details about the school shooting in Georgia last week that left four people dead.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. The mother of the suspected shooter reportedly called to warn the school on the day of the shooting and then drove 200 miles to the 
 
 school herself.
 
The 14-year-old suspect is currently in custody so is his father who's accused of buying his son the AR-15 style rifle used in the attack.
 
ASHER: Meantime, the residents of Winder, Georgia are mourning and trying to come to terms with the loss.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: First, let me give me (INAUDIBLE) we're all like closest to that. And I really feel for everyone. Like, you know, going to 
 
 this school. You know, we went to school with no worry in the world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:50:04]
 
GOLODRYGA: Apalachee High School has been closed since Wednesday's shooting. Hundreds gathered there over the weekend in Winder to remember 
 
 the victims.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(SINGING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Prayers and vigils were also held in remembrance.
 
ASHER: Yes. Two 14-year-old students and two teachers were killed in Wednesday's shooting.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Wow. A spectacular fireworks show illuminated the sky above the stadium, State de France. Am saying that -- 
 
ASHER: State de France.
 
GOLODRYGA: State de France.
 
ASHER: Or stadium. I'll give you a French lesson in France.
 
GOLODRYGA: Or a stadium in France. Sunday, closing out the Paris Paralympic Games.
 
ASHER: Athletes from 169 delegations paraded to music before 24 French DJs took over and transformed the stadium into an electro party.
 
There was rain during the event, but thousands of spectators braved the soggy conditions anyway.
 
Attention now, turns to Los Angeles, which will host the next edition of the Olympics and Paralympics in 2028.
 
GOLODRYGA: Can't wait.
 
Well, now to an incredible love story between team USA Olympic athlete Hunter Woodhall and his wife, Tara.
 
They both won gold medals in Paris this year, firmly cementing their place as one of the sports newest power couples.
 
ASHER: Yes.  CNN's Don Riddell spoke with Hunter Woodhall to discuss the joy the couple is feeling in the wake of the games.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WOODHALL: The biggest thing was I know that we do the same things. We train together, we eat together, we recover the same way. And seeing Tara go out 
 
 there and absolutely dominate, it gave me such a sense of confidence to say, and I know we've done the same things. And if she's able to go out 
 
 there and do that, then I know I'm capable of doing the same thing.
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORTS: I think I heard that she didn't really want to look at her gold medal until you had won yours.
 
So, what's it been like with the two of you sharing your gold medals together?
 
WOODHALL: It's been so special. I mean, they sat next to each other last night on the table. So they had some time to just kind of hang out and get 
 
 comfortable with each other.
 
But, yes, it's been -- it's been so incredible. I mean, it's hard won the Olympic gold medal. It's the pinnacle of our sport. So it's really been 
 
 like a month of just understanding that what she did is so incredible, but also like trying not to put too much time and mental energy into it because 
 
 we knew we had something else and it takes somebody who is really genuine and really thoughtful to do that.
 <br>[12:55:23]
 
And such a sacrifice and such a sense of humility. And I'm just really grateful that she's like really, really incredible.
 
Me and Tara could sit on the porch and watch sunsets every day like we love just being around each other, spending time together. And our personality 
 
 is just kind of -- we just work together. I don't know what it is.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: You know, I was wondering how many beeps they would have to be.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. We could count it like five.
 
ASHER: This football halftime show going to be all right. The hip-hop superstar, Kendrick Lamar, says he will be headlining the show.
 
GOLODRYGA: Kendrick Lamar is one of the most celebrated hip-hop artists of all time with 17 Grammy Awards. And he is the only rapper to ever win a 
 
 Pulitzer Prize for his music as well. Maybe there'll be a slight delay.
 
A lot of beeps.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ASHER: Beep of the entire video.
 
That does it for this hour of ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher.
 
GOLODRYGA: And I'm Bianna Golodryga. Thanks so much for watching. I'll be right back with "AMANPOUR."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END