Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: What Weight Tells Us About Our Health; Series Of Exercises With Just A Paper Plate; How Reading Food Labels Can Help Us Better Understand How Processed Some Foods Really Are; Chinese Lantern Festival Celebrates The Lunar New Year. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired February 09, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. Welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy Wire. Happy Friday, Friyay. Let`s take some 
 
 great energy into this weekend.
 
And we`re going to start today`s show by focusing on you, specifically your health. Our Dr. Sanjay Gupta met with a physician to learn more about body 
 
 composition and what our body weight might tell us about our health and what actually is a healthy weight. Watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. FATIMA CODY STANFORD, OBESITY MEDICINE, MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL:  Our weight is one factor that plays a role in our health. By itself, it 
 
 doesn`t give us the full story of who we are.
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Obesity in and of itself, I know your perspective is in and of itself can be a disease.
 
STANFORD:  Right. But what you`re really looking at is the -- the ramifications of that obesity, high cholesterol, triglycerides, your 
 
 insulin`s not working as well. 
 
STANFORD:  And I can`t just judge the book by its cover and assume that someone that is larger is unhealthy and someone that is lean is healthy, 
 
 right? 
 
GUPTA:  Right.
 
STANFORD:  That`s -- that`s the assumption that people make. I call that practicing street corner medicine. We`re going to -- we`re going to coin 
 
 that today on the show, Sanjay.
 
GUPTA:  Street corner medicine, I like it.
 
STANFORD:  I want to look beneath the -- the surface of the individual and see what`s going on, because someone who`s lean may be very unhealthy and 
 
 someone who`s heavier may be healthier. You may have someone who carries excess weight. They may be an ultra-marathon or they may be capable of 
 
 running in a hundred-mile race and be very, very healthy, not have joint pains, may be able to carry that weight and do things that someone that`s 
 
 much leaner may not be able to and have the metabolic health to fit that profile. 
 
And so I think it`s important for us to look at the weight, plus the health and put those two pieces of the puzzle together. My goal is to get you to 
 
 the happiest, healthiest weight for you. And so this comes to this idea of not comparing yourself to the person next to you, the person above you, 
 
 whatever that is, what is the weight that you best live at?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right, for any of you out there who maybe don`t go to a gym or don`t like going to a gym, check out this workout, you can do at home using 
 
 a paper plate. Dana Santas has four exercises, each of which you can do about 8 to 10 reps and three to five rounds. Here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA SANTAS, BREATHING, MOBILITY, AND MIND-BODY COACH:  I want to show you a surprisingly challenging workout using only a paper plate. You`ll put 
 
 your paper plate on the floor and put your foot on top and then hands on your hips. Step back, tap your knee, bring it back up. Stable eye through 
 
 your left leg. Your left leg is really doing all of the work here. 
 
The next exercise is a lateral lunge. So you`ll put one foot on the paper plate, hands on your hips again. And then your sliding back. Try to sit 
 
 back into the hip of your standing leg and keep your chest up. You`ll notice I`m leaning a little bit to counterbalance, but I`m trying to keep 
 
 my chest up. This leg is really, what`s keeping me stable in this position and from sliding completely out that way.
 
And make sure you do both sides on all of the exercises. And remember, it`s so important to focus on the standing leg that`s stabilizing the exercise. 
 
 The last two exercises involve a plank position and making circles with your arms and your legs. 
 
So we`ll start with our arms. So from your plank position, make sure you get stable. Take your feet out a little bit wider than you ordinarily would 
 
 for a little extra stability, and then place your hand inside the paper plate and just start to make circles. 
 
Now make sure your low back is not arching like this because that`s not going to do you any good. You need a nice strong core. If you find that 
 
 it`s too difficult, then put your knees down. Otherwise, stay here and do your eight circles, and you can switch it up. Ideally do four one 
 
 direction, do four, see other direction. And then of course switch to the other side. 
 
And finally, we`ll move the plate to our foot. And from that strong stable plank position, we just start making circles in your own range of motion. 
 
 If your range of motion is smaller, you can go smaller. Make sure you go for one direction, four the other direction. And then switch, and then 
 
 other direction.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
Let`s turn now to nutrition. Have you ever heard of ultra-processed foods? Well, there`re basically any food that contains ingredients that are never, 
 
 or are rarely used in kitchens. And while these additives add flavor and might keep foods lasting longer, they could be leading to a higher risk of 
 
 cancer, heart disease, obesity, even death. And sometimes it`s hard to tell which foods actually contain these ingredients. We talk to dietitian 
 
 nutritionist, Lorraine Kearney, who shows us how reading food labels can help us better understand how processed some foods really are.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LORRAINE KEARNEY, CERTIFIED DIETITIAN NUTRITIONIST:  Most people think ultra-processed foods are found in the chip bottle or the cookie aisle, but 
 
 it can also be found in this cereal, in the oatmeal and yogurts. And I`m going to help you today to navigate through them and what to look out for.
 
When we get our bread at the bakery, it is most minimally processed bread. When I`m looking at the ingredient list in these two breads, I prefer this 
 
 option. It has multi grain flour, water, salt in east. Compared to this other shelf stable bread that does have more additives and preservatives as 
 
 well as dough conditioners to preserve shelf like.
 
This one does have more fiber compared to the other bread. With most Americans only consuming about 5% of the fiber they need in a day. They are 
 
 missing out in a lot of nutrients. 
 
So when we are looking at a minimally processed cereal, it will have that shorter ingredient list and lower amounts of sugar compared to the flavor 
 
 enhancers or the added fats and oil to increase that mouth feel. 
 
With our ultra-process, it does have a higher amount of calories, but then with the fiber, when we look minimally processed has a total of 12 compared 
 
 to 10. With some yogurts, there`s actually enough sugar to be enough for a dessert rather than a breakfast. So when we are choosing a yogurt, we want 
 
 to make sure that we are looking at the ingredient list. 
 
This product has 18 grams of added sugar. And how we can tell if the product is high, lower, medium sugar is dividing the number of grams by 
 
 four to turn it into teaspoons. Compared to zero grams of added sugar and 15 grams of protein.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Ten second trivia.
 
In what country were fireworks invented?
 
China, United States, Russia, or India. 
 
If you said China, you are correct. That`s where fireworks first appeared following the invention of gun powder, and now China produces more 
 
 fireworks than any country in the world.
 
For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we want to take you to a beautiful lantern festival in the city of Shanghai in China. It opened a 
 
 couple weeks ago ahead of the Lunar New Year celebration. Millions of people around the world are now getting ready for this holiday that falls 
 
 on February 10th, this year and marks the first new moon of the lunar calendar. According to the Chinese Zodiac calendar, this is the year of the 
 
 dragon. 
 
OK. I`m not going to be dragging on this show any longer. Time to roll. Thanks for all the questions about Tom Brady that you want me to ask. We`re 
 
 going to see the winner on Monday show. 
 
I want to give a shout out now. Let`s go to Antigo, Wisconsin with a Red Robin of Antigo Middle School, rise up.  And this shout out goes to the 
 
 Shipbuilders at Morse High School in Bath, Maine. Yeah, baby. Let`s ride this energy away right on into the weekend. Remember, you are more powerful 
 
 than, you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END