Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Universities Across U.S. on Edge as Pro-Palestinian Protests Grow; Blinken Says, Israel Proposal to Hamas Extraordinarily Generous; Dangerous Storms Rip Across Southern U.S. During Fourth Straight Day of Severe Weather. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired April 29, 2024 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:00]
 
I know, yes, because they love politics. They're fascinated by it. They love power. It's, you know, I think -- and I think there's also probably an element of like, looking into the fishbowl. It's like, this weird world in Washington. Like, let me go witness it up close.
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST:  I would think if you're not of this world, you'd probably find it quite intoxicating.
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  You're fascinated. You're fascinated by it. Yes. It's true. Oh. Well, we're happy to have you.
 
BEDINGFIELD:  Yes. Thank you for coming. Thanks to our panel for joining us this morning. I'm Kasie Hunt.
 
Don't go anywhere. CNN News Central starts right now.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Push back on pro-Palestinian protests.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Four people are now dead, including a four- month-old baby after a string of tornadoes rips through multiple states. And there's a new threat this morning.
 
Also, South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem still defending. shooting and killing her family dog, her admission in her new book that has people still, well, outraged and also scratching their heads.
 
Sara is out. I'm Kate Bolduan with John Berman. This is CNN News Central.
 
BERMAN:  This morning, new developments of the protests facing colleges and universities across the country, hundreds have been arrested or detained in sometimes violent encounters with authorities at pro-Palestinian encampments and rallies.
 
Now, Virginia Tech, overnight, new arrests after the university says the situation progressed and had the potential to become unsafe. At UCLA, police in riot gear intervened after protesters breached a security barrier intended to separate opposing groups. George Washington University is beginning to see its encampments spill out into the streets with more than 20 new tents set up in recent days. New CNN polling this morning shows that 71 percent of Americans disapprove of President Biden's handling of the Israel-Hamas War.
 
CNN's Omar Jimenez is outside Columbia University, well, really, this all began. So, Omar, what are you seeing there this morning?
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. So, what we're seeing, for one, is a decreased visible security presence at the outside of the campus, at least different than what we've seen to this point, which has previously been dictated by barricades and more of a bigger officer presence as well.
 
Today, though, is the last official day of classes here at Columbia University, as we enter into this finals period, both of which are hybrid in part because of tensions in and around campus, some of them anti-Semitic in nature. But a big question is, how is graduation going to play out? It's a little bit over two weeks from this point.
 
We've been on campus many times and you can see traces of graduation set up there next to the encampment, which is now approaching its two- week mark of being on campus there as well.
 
One thing we know that is not going to happen or that is not in consideration at this point is sending in the New York Police Department. As a statement from university leaders here said, we called on NYPD to clear an encampment once, but we all share the view based on discussions within our community and with outside experts that to bring back the NYPD at this time would be counterproductive, further inflaming what is happening on campus and drawing thousands to our doorstep who would threaten our community.
 
Now, that statement was sent out by co-chairs of Columbia's Board of Trustees, university provost, and the university president. but that last dynamic is one that's been key throughout. There have been the protests that have been happening on campus, the student-led encampments, that really have been pushing for the university to divest from corporations, they say, benefit from Israel and its war on Gaza. And then some of the protests outside the campus at the gates behind me here, where that increased security presence typically was and where the NYPD says they have seen outside agitators that have been spewing hate and anti-Semitism.
 
So, moving forward, the university says negotiations are ongoing with the student protesters over how to bring this encampment to a resolution. But, of course, while their protests, their versions of protests have for the most part been peaceful, not all Jewish students have felt safe on campus, and many of them have done this final period of the semester from home just out of comfort, at the very least, fear as well.
 
And then as we approach graduation here, it does remain to be seen how exactly that is going to play out. But they did say that they are mindful that the graduating seniors began their Columbia University experience remotely, and they really wanted to make it happen in person here.
 
BERMAN:  I'm sure they do. Omar Jimenez, at Columbia, Omar. very much.
 
I've been to a graduation at Columbia, Kate, and it takes place right where I think those tents are.
 <br>[07:05:00]
 
I mean, this is something that if they want to go forward, the ceremonies will have to figure out before that.
 
BOLDUAN:  There's a lot of decisions that need to happen pretty quickly, exactly right.
 
Less than peaceful protests as things turned somewhat violent at UCLA over the weekend. Pro-Palestinian and pro-Israeli demonstrators clashing after people breached a security barrier and started screaming and shoving. University officials are also now facing questions this morning about what they are going to do about all of this.
 
Now, CNN's Camila Bernal, she's in Los Angeles for us this morning. She's joining us now. Camila, what's happening there? What's happened there?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Kate. Well, this morning, things are very quiet. That was not the case yesterday. You are still seeing some of the students that are part of the encampment. They are behind the wall here where this plywood that they have set up and these metal barriers. That's what university officials trying to do to keep both sides separate.
 
Of course, the students here quiet this morning, but yesterday, we definitely saw those violent encounters. We were here.
 
And the problem that the university was having was keeping the two sides separate. So, at the moment, when both sides would collide, that's when you would see the pushing and the shoving and both verbal and physical abuse that I personally saw. You know, it was heartbreaking to see these two sides fighting and essentially shouting at each other, really not coming to any sort of agreement between the two of them.
 
You know I asked the pro-Palestinian group about the anti-Semitism and about the violence and they continued to push me back and point to what's happening in Gaza. When I asked the pro-Israeli group about the violence that I was seeing, what they were telling me is that they were not going to back down.
 
So, I want you to listen to part of the conversation that I had with people on both sides of this issue.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The only people that are calling for aggression are the people hiding behind those masks because they are too afraid to show their face. Do you see anyone here with a mask on this side of the protest? No, because we stand with what we believe in. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  They terrorize us all the time and they censor us. Students are constantly getting doxxed.
 
If they're going to attack us, we're not going to back down, but we're going to take precautions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL:  And you're seeing there, those energies were high. I mean, everyone was extremely passionate. At some point, what the security officers here were able to do is line up a number of bicycles and they kept that separate the two sides. And that's when essentially we saw things not calm down, but we saw less fights and less physical altercations.
 
Now, at some point, it was those security guards that pushed the protestors off campus with the help of the campus police. They were in riot gear, but the police did not engage with those protestors. It was mostly those security guards and the university saying they have now increased the number of security guards.
 
Again, like I mentioned, the people who are in the encampment are here behind me. But in front of me, we're also seeing at least one tent in support of the Jewish students here on campus. So, again, you're seeing two of these sides saying they're not backing down and they will likely stay here for a while until for this side until they say they get a response from the university. And on the pro-Jewish students side, they're saying they're here because they're also here. So, they're saying they're not backing down. And that's what you're seeing here at UCLA. Kate?
 
BOLDUAN:  Camila, thank you very much.
 
So, coming up still for us, the secretary of state back in the Middle East, and just now saying that Israel has presented Hamas with an extraordinarily generous proposal. We have that new reporting coming up next.
 
And Donald Trump and Ron DeSantis joining forces? The first reported conversation between the two former rivals, CNN has the details.
 
Plus, it was once declared eliminated in the United States, but cases of the measles around the world have nearly doubled in one year now. What doctors are saying about this.
 
We'll be back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:10:00]
 
BOLDUAN:  New this morning, worry inside the State Department that Israel is not using U. S. weapons in accordance with international law in its war against Hamas in Gaza. A source telling CNN the State Department, though, is divided over that. The secretary of state is in the Middle East right now, again, and just said that he believes Israel has presented Hamas with an extraordinarily generous proposal in the ongoing and much stalled and stopped, really, ceasefire and hostage negotiations.
 
CNN's Kylie Atwood, she's joining us right now with much more on this. Kylie, what are you hearing?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. well, listen, there's some optimism from the secretary of state this morning saying that the latest proposal from the Israeli side is, as you said, something that essentially Hamas should accept. However, U.S. officials have long been saying that the issue here is Hamas not going forward and making an agreement over the ceasefire. They're trying to come to an agreement on and, of course, those hostages that they want released.
 
Listen to what the secretary said this morning in Saudi Arabia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE:  Hamas has before it a proposal that is extraordinarily, extraordinarily generous on the part of Israel. And in this moment, the only thing standing between the people of Gaza and a ceasefire is Hamas. They have to decide, and they have to decide quickly.
 
So, we're looking to that and I'm hopeful that they will make the right decision.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[07:15:03]
 
ATWOOD:  Now, meanwhile, while we're watching to see what happens there, back at home here at the State Department, there is division, as you were saying, Kate, whether they're American-made weapons that the United States is giving Israel are being used in accordance with international law.
 
So, President Biden signed a national security memorandum late last year that requires the State Department to provide an assessment as to if the countries that are getting these American-made weapons are using them in accordance with international law.
 
There's not a consensus opinion within the State Department over whether Israel's assurances are legitimate on this front. That is according to a State Department official who spoke with our colleague, Jennifer Hansler.
 
Now, the State Department is saying that they are not going to comment on leaked documents. They're also saying that when there are these complex issues, it is typical for the secretary to have a range of opinions provided to him. But this is all going to come to head next week because this national security memorandum requires the secretary of state to provide an actual assessment to Congress over whether the assurances that have been given by these countries, of course, including Israel, are credible and reliable. So, we'll watch to see where this all goes. Kate?
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes, and wait to see, as you just said, to hear the secretary of state's assessment next week. It's great to see you, Kylie. Thank you so much.
 
So, cleanup is underway right now after deadly tornadoes hit across the Midwest, a huge trail of destruction. And it was through multiple states. And the storm threat, not yet over.
 
It's like Jumanji come to life, at least I'm going to say that. Look at this, a group of runaway, runaway zebras escaping on a busy highway. We'll explain.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:20:00]
 
BERMAN:  All right. this morning, millions are under severe storm watches across Southeastern Texas and Louisiana. There have been days of devastation. Four people, including an infant, died in Oklahoma as the state tornadoes hit a record number of tornado warnings. At least 22 were tracked in one day. One of those deaths was in the small town of Sulphur, which was badly hit.
 
CNN's Derek Van Dam joins us now with the latest on what's expected. Derek?
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Hey, John. Sulphur, Oklahoma and Murray County was in the crosshairs of two extremely large and destructive tornadoes within the span of an hour, striking fear into this community. Look at the path of destruction that it left behind several hundred yards wide, this tornado completely tearing roofs off of buildings.
 
This video is astonishing. Look at the collapsed walls, zooming in to this United States postal truck that's just been flipped over like a toy car sending debris hundreds of feet from where it originally laid.
 
Now, this is all part of the outbreak of tornadoes that started Friday, lasted through Saturday and Sunday, 137 tornado reports. And, yes, there is another threat of severe weather later this week, unfortunately, in some of the hardest hit areas across the central and northern plains. This is for later this week, and that extends all the way through Oklahoma, where we saw some of that worst damage.
 
We are edging very close to the average number of tornadoes for this year-to-date, and we will likely exceed that later this week as we get another round of severe storms.
 
Though the immediate threat as it stands right now is across extreme Southeastern Texas and across portions of Central Louisiana. This line of storms has been known to produce winds in excess of 60 miles per hour. That's why we have a severe thunderstorm watch. Through 9:00 A.M. Central Time, you can see this line moving into Lafayette right now, just knocking on doorsteps of Baton Rouge. The good news is it is starting to weaken as it traverses eastward, but it will bring heavy rainfall to New Orleans.
 
Speaking of heavy rain, we have a flash flood threat that is ongoing. We've had reports here of a half an inch of rain in five minutes time across southeastern portions of Texas. That's a lot of rain, and that will easily inundate roadways and cause rapid rises in rivers. That's why the National Weather Service has issued these flashflood warnings.
 
So, a multi-hazard, multi-threat still exists across the Deep South. And then we look towards later this week for the potential of more severe storms across some of the hardest hit areas throughout the central parts of the U.S. John?
 
BERMAN:  But just to be clear, your tornado concerns as that storm moves east, maybe lessening at least a little bit?
 
VAN DAM:  Yes. I think that's important for our viewers to understand. This is more of a strong straight line wind threat that is ongoing across Central Louisiana and extreme Southeast Texas. A spin up tornado can't be ruled out. That's specific warning from the Storm Prediction Center. But the threat is not as great as what we experienced this weekend across Oklahoma and into portions of Nebraska and Iowa.
 
But, again, I'm emphasizing this, this is for later in the week, this is the line of storms that we'll see re-fire that will potentially bring more storms. I'll advance my graphics here. This is for the day on Tuesday. Look at that, Nebraska into Kansas, Iowa. Remember, these areas were hit hard this weekend as well.
 
BERMAN:  All right. So, everyone, pay attention as the week goes on.
 
Derek Van Dam, thank you very much for all that.
 
South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem says killing her dog, Cricket, was the responsible thing to do. The ongoing controversy, new developments there.
 <br>[07:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN:  This morning, administrators at universities across the country are wrestling with how to contain growing pro-Palestinian protests on the campuses. The University of Pennsylvania warned protesters to leave, citing issues of vandalism and harassment, but demonstrators say they are not going anywhere.
 
CNN's Danny Freeman is in Philadelphia at the university this morning. Danny, we can see the tents right behind you.
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, that's right, John.
 <br>[07:30:00] We're on day five of this encampment protest here at the University of Pennsylvania. And this morning, everything seems pretty calm. You can see there are students right here basically having breakfast, getting ready for.