Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Black Boxes of Downed Azerbaijani Plane Recovered As Questions Mount Over Russian Involvement; One of Gaza's Last Functioning Hospitals Forced To Evacuate; Political Leaders In South Korea Face A Second Impeachment; WH: North Korean Troops Suffering Heavy Losses In Kursk; Parliament Votes To Impeach Acting President; Finland Seizes Oil Tanker Suspected Of Causing Outages; Christmas Eve Stowaway Caught On Delta Flight From Seattle; History-Making Probe Makes Closest Ever Approach To The Sun. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired December 27, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT: Hello, everyone, I'm Bianna Golodryga in for Isa Soares. Tonight, new details about a plane crash in 
 
 Kazakhstan that killed dozens. We'll bring you the latest on why Russia is now a part of the conversation. And a fresh blow for an already devastating 
 
 humanitarian crisis in Gaza as one of the last functioning hospitals is forced to evacuate there. 
 
Plus, new chaos erupts in South Korea's parliament as political leaders in the country face a second impeachment in just two weeks. New details are 
 
 emerging today about that deadly plane crash in Kazakhstan, as questions are mounting over whether Russia may have been involved.  
 
Azerbaijan Airlines says a preliminary investigation has found the disaster occurred because of, quote, "physical and technical external interference." 
 
 Meanwhile, a U.S. official told CNN that the signs point to Russian anti- aircraft defenses shooting the plane down, possibly in a case of mistaken identity.  
 
Authorities have recovered two Black Box flight recorders at the crash site, hoping that they can provide some answers. At least, 38 people were 
 
 killed when the Azerbaijan Airlines jet plummeted to the ground Wednesday. CNN's Nada Bashir has been following the latest developments. 
 
And the two headlines today, Nada, is that second Black Box found, and also Azerbaijan Airlines saying that they see external physical and technical 
 
 interference as early evidence in their investigation here.  
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: That's right, and both of those points will be crucial to investigators as they continue to examine the evidence. Those 
 
 two Black Boxes providing not only flight data, but potentially also internal recordings from within the cockpit, giving investigators some 
 
 sense of what took place in the moments before that fatal crash. 
 
But of course, this statement now from Azerbaijan Airlines that there was some sort of external, physical and technical impact being felt, some 
 
 interference there, that will certainly raise questions. And of course, there have been speculation, questions around what may have caused the 
 
 crash. 
 
We heard from one U.S. official telling CNN that this may have been the result of Russian anti-aircraft systems -- anti-air defense systems, 
 
 rather. And this certainly echoing what has been reported previously by "Reuters", who have spoken to multiple unnamed sources familiar with those 
 
 ongoing investigations, again stating that they believe this may have been caused by Russian air defense systems.  
 
And of course, it's important to underscore that there had been questions around nearby drone activity. This crash occurred shortly after drone 
 
 strikes in parts of southern Russia, and there has been some questions around possible diversions taken by the flight path as a result of 
 
 potentially drone activity in the area.  
 
Although, Russian aviation authorities have also pointed to poor weather conditions. But again, these have all raised questions, pointing the finger 
 
 potentially towards Russia. And that will certainly be a key line of inquiry for investigators. And then of course, we have seen videos and 
 
 emerging -- videos and images emerging, showing the aftermath, the wreckage showing perforations and holes in the fuselage which could suggest 
 
 potentially something happening mid-air.
 
This appear to show similar signs to shrapnel potentially hitting the plane at mid-air. So, again, another key point of questioning there for 
 
 investigators. Now, at this stage, authorities say it could take around two weeks for investigators to fully examine and assess the data on those two 
 
 Black Box recorders, and of course, they will be assessing the fuselage and wreckage as well. 
 
And they will, of course, most likely be speaking to some of those survivors. Remarkably, 29 people out of the 67 on board that flight did 
 
 survive. We've seen the videos of many of those who survived emerging, many of them injured, of course, from the wreckage. At this stage, authorities 
 
 say at least five of those 29 people who survived are said to be in a serious but stable condition. 
 
All, of course, immediately receiving medical care. But we have been hearing from those passengers who survived, one of whom described hearing a 
 
 loud bang that the flight -- the plane was moving somewhat unusually, that the passengers were being thrown up and down in their seats. 
 
So, again, these are all areas that investigators will be looking at. But at this stage, there has been no clear conclusion issued by the authorities 
 
 or investigators as to what caused this crash.  
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
GOLODRYGA: And that may take, as you noted, another couple of weeks, just unbelievable once again that there are so many survivors in the aftermath 
 
 of a plane crash like this one. Nada Bashir, thank you so much. Well, for more, I'm joined by Alan Diehl; he's a former investigator with the 
 
 National Transportation Safety Board. Thank you so much for joining us and taking the time. 
 
So, here we are 48 hours after this crash on Wednesday. You have U.S. officials saying that they believe that it was likely taken down by an 
 
 anti-aircraft system, and Azerbaijan investigators believe the same. We've seen images of holes perforated through the plane's fuselage. Does that 
 
 lead you to believe also that this was likely the result of a Russian anti- defense system?  
 
ALAN DIEHL, AVIATION SAFETY CONSULTANT &amp; FORMER INVESTIGATOR, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD: Bianna, it's almost certainly certain that it 
 
 happened because of some sort of anti-aircraft fire. The physical evidence is overwhelming. Clearly, though, the recorders will play a critical role 
 
 on whether or not the pilots were able to realize, first of all, what they had. 
 
This particular jet, the Embraer has three hydraulic systems. But if the hydraulic systems were destroyed, the only alternative you have to steer 
 
 the aircraft, to fly the aircraft is the differential throttles. There's two engines you can steer left or right by increasing one or the other 
 
 throttle. You can increase thrust to make the plane go up, you can decrease thrust to make it go down. 
 
The problem is, there's a lag doing that, and clearly, these people did a great job of managing to crash land with a limited control they had, but 
 
 yes, this does look like a battle damaged aircraft. 
 
GOLODRYGA: No doubt. Credit most likely due to these pilots who helped save dozens of lives here. And what's so frightening is to learn that this plane 
 
 isolate -- oscillated the vertical speed, oscillated more than 100 times during the final 74 minutes of the flight. And let's remind viewers, the 
 
 flight originated in Azerbaijan, was supposed to go to Grozny in Chechnya in Russia. 
 
The federation, then for whatever reason and the Russian air traffic control says that they were told that they offered for this flight to land 
 
 in Grozny two times, and then the pilots offered another airport -- and the pilot was offered another airport, excuse me, and he decided to fly to 
 
 Kazakhstan. Would that make sense to you?  
 
DIEHL: Yes, it might, Bianna, because remember, these pilots are doing something for the very first time, assuming that we're correct about the 
 
 hydraulic systems failing, they're going to have to fly this aircraft with just thrust only. They're going to have to steer the aircraft. This is a 
 
 very difficult task. This is not something that pilots are trained to do. 
 
So, by flying across the Caspian Sea, that gave them quite a bit of time to master how to control this aircraft. Also, the weather was bad in southern 
 
 Russia, there in Crimea, it was better across the in Kazakhstan. And also, there were mountains and populated areas in the airports around the Russian 
 
 airports were out in Kazakhstan, there's flat terrain and a less populated area. 
 
So, these pilots were thinking when they made that decision to cross the Caspian Sea, and it's much to their credit that they chose that course of 
 
 action, didn't risk a lot of people's lives on the ground, and it's just unfortunate that they couldn't totally control the aircraft. One other 
 
 thing, Bianna, you have to keep in mind, when they're manipulating these throttles, things don't happen quickly or instantly, it takes a -- there's 
 
 a lag.
 
So, you can see in the videos of the crash that they're trying to bring up that right wing, that the very -- in there, they got the aircraft almost 
 
 level, but whenever you add power on one engine, of course, you increase the speed which you're trying to avoid doing when you land. So, this is a 
 
 very difficult task for them, and they did a commendable job of selecting this course of action and executing the crash approach under the most 
 
 difficult of circumstances.  
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, and as we note, they have recovered the two Black Boxes from the plane and it will likely take another couple of weeks before we 
 
 get a definitive conclusion as to the cause of this tragic plane crash. Really appreciate your time, thank you so much.  
 
DIEHL: Of course, there's a bigger -- why the airplane was even allowed into the war zone --   
 
GOLODRYGA: I'm sorry. What is that?  
 
DIEHL: I said there's even a bigger issue as to why the Azerbaijani government, the airline, allowed this aircraft to enter the war zone 
 
 knowing that they should have known that there's an active shooting situation, a war going on -- 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes -- 
 
DIEHL: This is maybe the bigger question of why that aircraft was even allowed to launch -- to dispatch into this hostile war zone --  
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, we don't know if Russia had shut down that airspace either, by the way. They had shut down airspace throughout this war along its 
 
 border with Ukraine. But obviously, Russia is a huge country, and we know that there was drone activity in this part in this region as well. So, 
 
 still so many unanswered questions. But that is a good point to raise as well, we appreciate your time.  
 
DIEHL: Thanks, Bianna.  
 
GOLODRYGA: The Israeli military says that it intercepted a missile launched from Yemen early Friday before it crossed into Israeli territory. The 
 
 interception came hours after Israeli forces unleashed a series of strikes on the Yemeni capital and a city in the west, killing six people and 
 
 injuring dozens more. 
 
The Iran-backed Houthis had vowed to retaliate for the strike. One assault on the capital's airport hit as a high-level U.N. delegation was preparing 
 
 to fly out. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said strikes on Yemen won't stop until the mission is complete. CNN's Elliott Gotkine reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST (on camera): The Houthis have lobbed ballistic missiles towards Tel Aviv for four out of the last seven nights sending 
 
 millions scrambling to bomb shelters. On Thursday, Israel responded, launching its first-ever attack on Yemen's main airport and hitting two 
 
 power stations. The strikes, the Israeli military said, targeted infrastructure the Houthis have been using to bring Iranian weapons into 
 
 Yemen. 
 
Among those hurt, a crew member for a plane for the World Health Organization whose director general says he was just meters away from the 
 
 impact. This was the fourth time Israeli planes have attacked the Houthis, who say they're firing on Israel and international shipping in solidarity 
 
 with Palestinians in Gaza. 
 
On Wednesday night in a war-battered enclave, five men, all of them journalists, according to hospital officials And "Al-Quds Today TV" were 
 
 killed while sleeping in their van. The channel affiliated with Palestine Islamic Jihad, which the U.S. and others proscribe as a terrorist 
 
 organization, says the men were carrying out their journalistic and humanitarian duty. 
 
Israel says they were Islamic Jihad militants posing as journalists. For evidence, it provided what it said was a list of operatives it picked up 
 
 during operations in Gaza, edited to translate names and details on which four of the men's names appear along with their roles. And as the war in 
 
 Gaza rumbles on, ceasefire talks aimed at securing the release of the 100 or so hostages still being held captive appear to have hit another snag. 
 
On Christmas day, Hamas accused Israel of moving the goalposts in negotiations, and said this was why a deal had yet to be done. For its 
 
 part, Israel said Hamas was lying and reneging on understandings that had already been reached. Whatever the case, despite renewed optimism that a 
 
 deal could soon be done, the reality is the two sides appear no closer to reaching an agreement that could end the year-long war and bring all the 
 
 hostages home. Elliott Gotkine, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Now, to a critical situation unfolding at one of the last functioning hospitals in Gaza. The director of Kamal Adwan says Israeli 
 
 forces are besieging the hospital in Beit Taliya(ph) -- Lahiya, excuse me, and forcing everyone to evacuate. He says troops are burning all of the 
 
 operating departments and have detained some staff members.  
 
Israel confirms military activity around the hospital, calling it a Hamas terrorist stronghold. It says it facilitated the secure evacuation of 
 
 civilians, patients and staff before the operation. But a nurse is describing terrifying scenes.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHUROUQ SALAH, NURSE, KAMAL ADWAN HOSPITAL (through translator): They separated the men from the women and took the women in groups. Those who 
 
 refused to remove their clothing were beaten, and they took our phones. I didn't have a phone, but those who were refusing to hand over their phones 
 
 were beaten, and those who refused to take off their clothes were also beaten. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA: The hospital director says Israeli forces have repeatedly fired on Kamal Adwan and its surroundings for months. Just yesterday, Gaza's 
 
 Health Ministry said an airstrike nearby killed about 50 people, including five medical workers. Israel told CNN, it was unaware of strikes in the 
 
 area, but said that it would investigate. 
 
We're joined now by Dr. Yousef Abu Al Rish; Gaza's deputy Minister of Health. Doctor, thank you so much for taking the time right now. Can you 
 
 give us the latest on what you know about the current situation at the hospital there? I know you're not physically in northern Gaza, but what are 
 
 you hearing from your colleagues?  
 
YOUSEF ABU AL RISH, DEPUTY MINISTER OF HEALTH, GAZA: Yes, you know that for almost three months, the hospital is attacked on a daily basis, and 
 
 actually, from the side of the Ministry of Health, again, we ask the people just to protect and ask the international community just to protect that 
 
 hospital. 
 <br>[14:15:00]
 
Unfortunately, Kamal Adwan is the last hospital at the north of Gaza. You know, there is three public hospitals, Kamal Adwan Hospital and Indonesian 
 
 Hospital and Beit Hanoun Hospital. Beit Hanoun Hospital is completely destroyed before, and then Indonesian Hospital unfortunately, before just 
 
 five days, it was again almost completely destroyed and they destroyed the electrical generators and the oxygen stations and the infrastructure and 
 
 the electro-mechanical system there. 
 
So, the only remaining hospital were Kamal Adwan. And again, Kamal Adwan wasn't functioning well as it's lacking the very essential needs of 
 
 medicine and consumables and the occupation forces invade the hospital many times, and they detained most of the staff there, and even they kill on a 
 
 daily basis some of the staff. 
 
As you mentioned in your report just yesterday, they killed five of the Kamal Adwan staff just yesterday. And as I mentioned on a daily basis, they 
 
 kill more and more. And since the morning, the hospital were surrounded by the tanks and they asked the staff and the patients there to be in the 
 
 layout of the hospital, and they start to investigate them and they sought them, anyone who was able or able to move, they asked them to take off 
 
 their clothes, and then they evacuated the hospital from those people, and the remaining who are very seriously ill. 
 
And the staff actually, 60 of the staff were remaining in the -- in the hospital. And now they're asked to move to the Indonesian Hospital. 
 
 Actually, the Indonesian Hospital is not a real hospital. Now, it's just named like Indonesian Hospital, but it's lacking the water, lacking 
 
 electricity, lacking the infrastructure and the system and everything. So, it's just like a shelter, and that's the question. Now, the remaining -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes -- 
 
AL RISH: Of the cases and the seriously ill, they are pushed to go to the Indonesian Hospital while they will not receive any medical service there. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, we should note that the IDF in a statement said that the Kamal Adwan Hospital serves as a Hamas terrorist stronghold in northern 
 
 Gaza, from which terrorists have been operating throughout the war. This despite repeated calls by the IDF to refrain from exploiting the hospital 
 
 for military activities. To your point about the Indonesian Hospital, the IDF went on to say that it made efforts to enable patients to continue 
 
 receiving care in other hospitals. 
 
You said there are few, if any, functioning hospitals now nearby. Talk about the concern, I'm assuming this is the Indonesian Hospital that you 
 
 were just referencing. Talk about the concern about the lack of supplies at that hospital. What is needed most there? What type of injuries are you 
 
 talking about? 
 
AL RISH: Yes, first, actually, the Israeli occupation forces, actually, they invade the Kamal Adwan Hospital many times, and they searched every 
 
 room and every department, and they searched every square centimeter there. And even we ask them, we passed that message through the media, through Dr. 
 
 Ohmed Gilbert(ph) and through a channel, which is with the CogAT(ph), through some of our colleagues in the international community. 
 
We ask them if you want to come inside the hospital and to coordinate the hospital or to follow and to observe what is going inside the hospital, you 
 
 will be more than welcome. We are just insisting just to focus on our mission, which is to save lives and to treat the cases. Even we ask them if 
 
 you want to be in front of the hospital, around the hospital, at the gate of the hospital, inside the hospital, you are more than welcome. 
 
And as I mentioned, they searched the hospital many times before, and actually they allowed the hospital to work after the last invasion after 
 
 they detained 32 of our staff, and they detained most of the patients there. So, that's the first point. The second point, yes, most of the cases 
 
 now, they are seriously ill with the massive injuries, and some of them even in the intensive care unit, our colleague who is a nurse, he is 
 
 severely injured in his head and he's in need for mechanical ventilator.  
 
And now, he is just -- and trying to save lives using what is called ambu bag(ph). And so, there is very essential needs which is not there at Kamal 
 
 -- at the Indonesian -- sorry, at the Indonesian Hospital. And so, I can guess that most of the seriously ill cases, they will lose their lives 
 
 while there is not even water, there, there's not even water, no electricity.  
 
And the staff again, unfortunately, now they pushed the staff to move outside the hospital and they divide them. Some of them, they are told to 
 
 be in an unknown area in the shelter or tent. We don't know where are they now? And some of them, they're pushed to go to the Indonesian Hospital. 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
So, again, the staff -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: And the weather -- 
 
AL RISH: Will not be there -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: And the weather -- 
 
AL RISH: And the weather -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: Has turned cold as well. Do you have any idea, doctor, of how many patients we're talking about? 
 
AL RISH: I'm talking about the seriously-ill cases, 25 cases they are labeled like seriously ill. We started by 150 cases, and some of them with 
 
 simple cases, some of them moderate cases, and 25 out of them, they're seriously ill. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And so, what's the likelihood of getting all of the urgent supplies and equipment and aid and water in the next -- 
 
AL RISH: Yes -- 
 
GOLODRYGA: Twenty four-48 hours as soon as possible? 
 
AL RISH: You know that actually, they passed the message that you have to evacuate that hospital, Kamal Adwan. And we tell -- we tell them, we don't 
 
 mind, we don't mind to evacuate that hospital. But where is the alternative? If you want to have a field hospital, we are ready to handle 
 
 that field hospital. If you want to restart the Indonesian Hospital, we are ready even to share how we can restart the Indonesian Hospital. 
 
But we'll not be in -- we'll not be happy or not agree for a decision, which is just to move to the Indonesian Hospital while it's not 
 
 functioning. At least -- at least, as I can guess from the previous trial of restarting the Indonesian Hospital, we are in need for more than one 
 
 month to let that hospital restarting again. 
 
So, actually, that decision -- that decision is just to tell the people through the media, we are just shifting some of the cases from the Kamal 
 
 Adwan to the Indonesian Hospital. While the reality is, they are closing the last and the remaining hospital, and actually they are killing the last 
 
 hope of the people to be alive there. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Dr. Al Rish, we really appreciate you taking the time to talk to us today, and really tragic that there are so many that are in desperate 
 
 need of aid right now. Thank you for bringing us their stories, appreciate it. 
 
AL RISH: Thank you, thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Still to come tonight, the suspect in a gruesome, fatal New York subway fire was indicted today on murder and arson charges. We'll have a 
 
 live report from New York ahead. And we'll bring you a legal update on the troubles facing Hip-Hop mogul Jay-z, accused of raping a 13-year-old girl. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
GOLODRYGA: Welcome back to the program. A man accused of setting a sleeping woman on fire on a New York City subway has been indicted on murder and 
 
 arson charges. Sebastian Zapeta-Calil, an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala did not appear at a brief court hearing earlier today. He's 
 
 accused of setting fire to a woman early Sunday morning who has not yet been identified.  
 
The incident has raised concerns about safety in the New York subway system amid a series of recent random attacks. Gloria Pazmino joins me now from 
 
 New York. What more did we learn from this brief hearing today, other than the fact that the accused was not present? 
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianna, the biggest thing is that we are learning the exact charges that he will be facing in just a few days 
 
 when he is arraigned in court on this indictment. Over the past few days, grand jury was presented with evidence, enough evidence to believe that 
 
 there's reasonable cause to prove that a crime had been committed, in this case, the alleged burning of this woman who was asleep inside of a subway 
 
 train in New York City. 
 
So, they voted to indict him, and in a few days, the defendant is going to be arraigned on that indictment. He's facing murder in the first degree as 
 
 well as murder in the second degree and arson charges. But as you said at the beginning, this incident has highlighted many of these issues that have 
 
 been a part of the focus here in New York City, both public safety, mental health, homelessness and also the broken immigration system. 
 
We're seeing a real collision of all of these issues. Now, the victim has yet to be identified, but law enforcement sources believe that she, too, 
 
 was homeless. In fact, they believe that she was likely taking shelter from the cold inside the subway that morning. The suspect in this instance, also 
 
 homeless, he came to the United States from Guatemala in 2018.
 
He was deported at one point, but made his way back into the country, and in recent months had been in and out of shelters here in New York City in 
 
 the last few months. Now, this murder in the first degree charge is extremely rare, but we heard from the Brooklyn District Attorney saying 
 
 that his office is prepared to prosecute the case. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ERIC GONZALEZ, BROOKLYN DISTRICT ATTORNEY: I want to assure the people of this city that this office will do everything in our power to hold him 
 
 accountable. This was a malicious deed, a sleeping, vulnerable woman on our subway system. This act surprised many New Yorkers as they were getting 
 
 ready to celebrate the holidays. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
PAZMINO: So, in the next few days, we are hoping that we will get more details about this victim, Bianna, there has been little information yet, 
 
 and the reason for that is because they've had a very difficult time identifying her, given the nature of the crime, the fact that she was 
 
 burned alive, the fact that she was homeless and she didn't have any personal effects on her to help identify her. 
 
So, law enforcement and the medical examiner's office now going through that process. We also learned from the district attorney today that they're 
 
 using advanced DNA technology to try and identify her. And in January of the next year, January 7th, we are expecting that the defendant to appear 
 
 in court. The indictment will be unsealed and he will likely be entering a plea then. Bianna?  
 
GOLODRYGA: Such a gruesome and disturbing story. Gloria Pazmino, thank you so much. A judge has tossed out rapper Jay-z's attempt to dismiss a lawsuit 
 
 accusing him of raping a 13-year-old girl in 2000. In an order filed Thursday, the judge penned a scathing decision condemning the Hip-Hop 
 
 mogul's lawyers' aggressive tactics. 
 
This after the Jane Doe(ph) accuser filed an amended lawsuit earlier this month, accusing both Sean "Diddy" Combs and Jay-z of drugging and sexually 
 
 assaulting her after the 2000 "MTV" Video Music Awards. The judge ruled the accuser could proceed anonymously in the case for now, given the severity 
 
 of the allegations. 
 
For more on this case, let's bring in Lisa France. And Lisa, did it surprise you? Just the scale at which the judge issued such a strong rebuke 
 
 against Jay-z's efforts to have this case dismissed. 
 
LISA FRANCE, CNN REPORTER: It was a little surprising just because of the strong language that she used, saying that, you know, they've been 
 
 combative and these relentless filings that she references in the order, and pretty much letting it be known that she's not going to allow Jay-z and 
 
 his legal team to run the show it sounds like. 
 
And by her allowing the accuser to remain anonymous, there are many who believe that the judge was simply allowing the accuser to have the privacy 
 
 because, you know, once her name would go public, of course, there is the potential that she could be harassed, that people could come after her, due 
 
 in part, Bianna, because she is such -- he, Jay-z is such a huge star and there are so many eyes on this particular case.
 <br>[14:30:15]
 
GOLODRYGA: For now, the case goes forward though. Lisa France, we'll continue to follow it. Thank you so much.
 
FRANCE: Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA: Still to come for us tonight, the White House says North Korean troops are suffering mass casualties as they attack Ukrainian positions in 
 
 Russia. We'll have details ahead. 
 
Plus, the country in political chaos says South Korea impeaches two presidents in less than two weeks. We'll have the latest on the turmoil 
 
 after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: The White House says North Korean forces are experiencing heavy casualties fighting against Ukrainian troops in Russia's Kursk region. 
 
 National Security Spokesman John Kirby said the soldiers are using human wave tactics in conducting mass assaults against Ukrainian forces, but they 
 
 haven't been all that effective.
 
The U.S. estimates that more than 1,000 North Korean troops have been killed or wounded in the past week alone, and their reports some have even 
 
 taken their own lives rather than surrendering.
 
And South Korea's political turmoil has deepened. In a chaotic session just hours ago, the parliament voted to impeach the acting president, Han Duck-
 
 soo. This happening less than two weeks after lawmakers impeached the former president over his decision to impose martial law. 
 
CNN's Hanako Montgomery reports.
 <br>[14:35:04]
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This is the latest development in what's been a very dramatic political. This is the latest 
 
 development in what's been a very dramatic political saga in South Korea. This is the first time in the country's history that an acting president 
 
 has been voted to be impeached. And it comes less than two weeks after the actual president, President Yoon Suk Yeol was also voted to be impeached. 
 
So, what we're talking about here is two impeachment votes in less than two weeks. I mean, this is unprecedented not only in South Korea, but also for 
 
 much of the democratic world. 
 
Now, there are many reasons why the acting president, Han Duck-soo, was voted to be impeached today by the country's parliament. But what really 
 
 stands out is a statement made by the main opposition party leader. Give this a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEE JAE-MYUNG, SOUTH KOREAN OPPOSITION LEADER (through translator): We will remove Yoon Suk Yeol from office, uproot his loyalist forces, and fully 
 
 suppress the insurrection. Until that moment, we will pool all our resources and fulfill our historic responsibility. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MONTGOMERY: Now for some background on the events that led to today's vote. On December 3, South Korea was plunged into political turmoil after the 
 
 country's president declared martial law. Then less than two weeks after that, the country's parliament decided to vote to impeach the president and 
 
 strip him of his duties.
 
But in order for the formal impeachment process to conclude, a constitutional court ruling upholding that impeachment vote is necessary. 
 
 But critically, and here's the problem right now, South Korea's constitutional court doesn't have enough judges to issue such a ruling. And 
 
 it's actually the job or the responsibility of the acting president, Han, to fill those remaining spots, fill those vacancies on the country's bench. 
 
 But so far, he's refused to do so, leading to this political deadlock we're seeing right now.
 
Now, looking ahead, next in line to serve as the acting president is the country's finance minister. But South Korea is still far from politically 
 
 stable. In fact, this turmoil, this political game of musical chairs, if you will, is coming at a very critical time for South Korea. 
 
It's preparing for a new Trump administration and the political instability that South Korea is seeing within its leadership is raising some questions 
 
 and concerns about how well it can engage in diplomacy and maintain stable U.S.-South Korean ties. And the question that still remains to be answered 
 
 is how much longer will this political instability in South Korea last? And that's anybody's guess. 
 
Hanako Montgomery, CNN. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Our thanks to Hanako for that report. 
 
Joining me now is former CIA Deputy Division Chief for Korea, Bruce Klingner. Bruce, welcome to the program. So, we are in unprecedented 
 
 unchartered territory here. This is now the second time in just as many weeks where you don't have an acting president in the country, and this one 
 
 being impeached, the interim president, Han, impeached now after we saw President Yoon really triggering this political crisis when he declared 
 
 martial law for a few hours in early December. 
 
What do you make of the current scenario and who is more to blame for the instability? Was it the interim president not appointing these three 
 
 justices, or do you think this is defiance that we're seeing acting in the way of a functioning government from the opposition party?
 
BRUCE KLINGNER, FORMER DEPUTY DIVISION CHIEF FOR KOREA, CIA: Well, President Yoon, when he declared martial law, it was in a manner that 
 
 exceeded the parameters of the Constitution. So, when the National Assembly voted to impeach him, it was acting in a manner consistent with the 
 
 Constitution. And now the Constitutional Court will have to decide whether to uphold or dismiss the impeachment motion against President Yoon. 
 
Prime Minister Han, or acting president, declared that he didn't want to approve the three nominees for the Constitutional Court without bipartisan 
 
 support. Two of the three nominees were appointed by the opposition party, which has a majority in the legislature, and one was approved, nominated by 
 
 the ruling party. And Han said he wanted to get bipartisan approval on all three of the nominees.
 
And then Han was also accused by the opposition party of being a part of the martial law declaration when he clearly had indicated his opposition to 
 
 it. And then, also they said he didn't appoint a special counsel for other investigations against both President Yoon and his wife for corruption and 
 
 other charges. 
 
So, I think now the opposition has moved from fulfilling their constitutional duties to now going overboard and more in a political 
 
 turmoil and sort of a scorched-earth tactic against not only the acting president, but as they've declared any of Yoon's supporters. So, it's gone 
 
 from really a constitutional action to just political opposition and political turmoil. 
 <br>[14:40:16]
 
GOLODRYGA: So, what do you think happens next? As we know to the finance minister, the deputy prime minister would be next in line to be named 
 
 acting president. But could we also see the same fate that we saw President Han face unless these three -- unless these two decide to bypass Han's 
 
 decision and actually appoint justices? 
 
KLINGNER: Well, right now I think it will be a continued turmoil even worse than before. You know, when the -- President Yoon was impeached, certainly 
 
 that puts the country in uncertainty on its policies, how is it able to implement policies, also the concern that North Korea would try to take 
 
 advantage of that. Although I think Pyongyang right now is just sitting back, enjoying the benefits of South Korea going through this 
 
 constitutional crisis and political turmoil. 
 
GOLODRYGA: What are the -- yes, what are the regional consequences of this? A major military power, a major democracy in the world, a close U.S. ally 
 
 coming at a time when we're having a transition from one administration to the other here in the U.S., and all of this playing out in South Korea. You 
 
 said Pyongyang is just watching this. And I think they would have never even foreseen this type of instability in South Korea. So, what are the 
 
 consequences? 
 
KLINGNER: Well, if you -- if you think back to just early September, you know, there was uncertainty about what the U.S. policies would be if 
 
 President Trump were reelected, but at the time we had two strong stalwart allies in South Korea and Japan. Since then, there's been a leadership 
 
 change in South Korea. The new prime minister called a snap election, and his party lost the majority in the legislature for the first time in 15 
 
 years. So, now he leads a minority government. 
 
Even though the policies will remain the same, which are in line with U.S. priorities, he will be unable to implement them efficiently and quickly. So 
 
 now, Japan is a bit of a questionable ally or an uncertain ally. And now, we have South Korea, if the opposition wins a special election, as it is 
 
 likely to do, it would go in a very different direction from U.S. priorities. 
 
The opposition would be very conciliatory towards China and North Korea, very antagonistic towards Japan, given historic differences, and also would 
 
 sort of downplay the alliance with the United States. The opposition often blames the U.S. rather than North Korea for raising tensions in the region.
 
So, if South Korea opposition wins the election, it's a much more uncertain situation just as the U.S. undergoes its own leadership transition. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. President Yoon for -- as unpopular as he was at home, geopolitically, he was very aligned with the Biden Administration and U.S. 
 
 policy. We'll see what happens now with not only a new administration in the White House, but also perhaps the opposition there in power. And you 
 
 laid out the major differences between President Yoon and his successor, potentially, in the opposition. 
 
We'll have to leave it there. I really appreciate the time. Thank you.
 
KLINGNER: Thank you for having me.
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, NATO says that it will boost its military presence in the Baltic Sea after the suspected sabotage of an undersea power cable linking 
 
 Finland and Estonia. Finnish authorities have seized a tanker carrying Russian oil, believing it may be responsible for causing undersea internet 
 
 and power cable outages. Finland's president says his country is working vigilantly to make sure that critical infrastructure is not damaged by 
 
 outsiders. He says, "we know who did it, but still need to know why. 
 
And still to come for us tonight, a stowaway caught trying to hitch a Delta ride to Honolulu from Seattle. We'll have the latest details on the 
 
 security breach during the busiest U.S. travel season of the year. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:47:49]
 
GOLODRYGA: Delta Airlines has caught yet another stowaway, this time on a flight from Seattle to Hawaii on Christmas Eve. Seattle Airport official 
 
 says the person went through security screening the night before the flight and then managed to access the loading bridge the next day. The stowaway 
 
 was caught as the plane was taxiing for takeoff. 
 
Delta faced a similar incident around Thanksgiving, you'll recall, when a woman made it all the way from New York to Paris without a ticket. 
 
Let's bring in Carlos Suarez live from the world's busiest airport, Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson. So, Carlos, explain to us how -- listen, I 
 
 can't get -- if I accidentally have a bottle of water with me, I can't get past security, much less get onto the plane. How is Delta responding to not 
 
 one, but two stowaways now within a matter of less than two months?
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's exactly right. There are so many unanswered questions involving this most recent incident, Bianna. We know 
 
 that this passenger was able to clear that TSA security checkpoint the night before the flight on Christmas Eve, meaning that this passenger was 
 
 able to get past the security checkpoint without a boarding pass, without a ticket, and spent some time in that terminal several hours, perhaps. 
 
 Exactly just how long this passenger was able to stay in that terminal, and exactly what that passenger was doing, is still unclear. 
 
As you noted, the flight crew really were the ones that finally figured this whole situation out when that plane was taxiing out for departure, and 
 
 they noticed that this person who was on board should not be where they were. And so, they come back to the gate, and it's at that point that 
 
 officials tell us that when the aircraft gets to the gate and the door is opened, the passenger runs out before law enforcement gets there. 
 
And so, we're told law enforcement had to rely on surveillance video at the airport in Seattle to find out the passenger's exact whereabouts. Were told 
 
 that they found this passenger hiding in a bathroom. 
 
Now, Delta released a statement, of course, saying that it is -- there's no bigger matter for them than the safety and the security of its passengers, 
 
 and they apologize to the folks that were involved in this because they were delayed on their way out to Hawaii. 
 
Here now is one of the passengers that was on that flight, kind of reacting to the entire situation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRADY BLY, DELTA PASSENGER: Nobody knew really what was going on. So, we were kind of left in the dark. I don't think Delta did everything they 
 
 could to protect people on the flight. Passing -- getting by two security breaches -- I can understand one maybe, but the second, I don't think 
 
 that's -- that's almost impossible. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUAREZ: And so of course, the TSA and a Delta are no doubt going to have to investigate this most recent incident. Bianna, the name of this passenger 
 
 has not been released by authorities, though we know that they were taken into custody on a criminal trespassing charge.
 
GOLODRYGA: Unbelievable. While I have you there, as I noted, the country's busiest airport. It doesn't look too bad there behind you, not too crowded. 
 
 This is the busiest time of the year for holiday travel. We know we have some weather systems that may disrupt that. What are you seeing? And what 
 
 is the message for travelers in terms of getting to their destinations on time? 
 <br>[14:50:05]
 
SUAREZ: Yes, Bianna, so it's been a pretty good day here at Hartsfield- Jackson International Airport. In fact, right now the wait time is just about seven minutes. It's only really been about 15 minutes most throughout 
 
 the day, which is really great considering just a number of people that the airport expects to pass through here. 
 
Today alone, we're looking at about more than 357,000 passengers coming through Atlanta, which is going to make it its busiest day of the year. As 
 
 for the overall travel picture right now, at last check, we're looking at about more than 4,100 flights across the U.S. that have been delayed and at 
 
 least 102 flights have been canceled in large part because of what you've said there, which is some of the bad weather that is moving across parts of 
 
 the South.
 
GOLODRYGA: Seven-minute wait, not too bad, but still people need to get to the airport a bit early just to make sure. Don't think you can stay at home 
 
 now when you see that there's only seven minutes in Atlanta. That can build up quite quickly. We know. Carlos Suarez, thank you so much. I appreciate 
 
 it.
 
And still to come for us tonight, wrap up warm and grab yourself a hot chocolate. We'll be taking a look at this winter wonderland in China. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, how's this for a holiday windfall? Here in the U.S., the mega millions lottery jackpot has surged to an estimated $1.2 billion for 
 
 tonight's drawing. It's happening after no one won the billion-dollar jackpot on Christmas Eve. The top prize has been rolling over since 
 
 September when a ticket in Texas won more than $800 million.
 
Well, new records being achieved in space over the holidays as a probe has made the closest-ever approach to the sun. The Parker Solar Probe flew past 
 
 the sun on Tuesday, coming within 3.8 million miles or just over six million kilometers of the solar surface. 
 
Here's a NASA animation showing its journey. Now the mission operations team received a signal from the spacecraft just before midnight on 
 
 Christmas Eve. But now, they're playing the waiting game as a probe will return to Earth on New Year's Day. We'll be waiting for it. 
 
And from the hottest place in our solar system to somewhere just a little bit colder. The snow-themed theme park in China has officially opened for 
 
 its 26th edition. Built out of an incredible 300,000 cubic meters of ice and snow, the City of Harbin experiences long cold winters and shorter 
 
 summers, earning its name as the Ice City. 
 
The annual ice and snow festival has been held there since 1999 and will run from December to March. So, if you're planning on visiting, make sure 
 
 you wrap up very warmly. That is so beautiful.
 
And finally, for us, a family in Florida say they got a Christmas miracle. They're German Shepherd, Athena, who had been missing for a week, showed up 
 
 on their doorstep and rang the doorbell on Christmas Eve.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROOKE COMER, ATHENA'S OWNER: It was about 2:30 a.m. when she came, pawing at the door, ringing the doorbell, which was Christmas Eve. And then that 
 
 morning, I woke up to -- she had made it on everybody's camera. She's like, I think this is her. I think this is her. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: I am so glad they caught that on camera. Look at her. Well, Brooke Comer says the nine days searching for Athena were brutal and took a 
 
 toll on her four young children. Not surprisingly, the excitement of Athena showing up in the middle of the night woke the kids up. Could you imagine a 
 
 more perfect Christmas gift? Even better than Santa, I would say, for those four kids that night. 
 
Well, that's it for our show tonight. Thank you so much for watching. Stay with CNN. "NEWSROOM" with Jim Sciutto is up next.
 
END