Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: College Demonstrations Across The U.S. And Europe; Egyptian Officials Trying To Jump Start Cease-Fire Talks; China Trying To Influence Upcoming U.S. Election; U.S. Tornadoes; Both Biden And Trump Willing To Debate Before Vote; Opposition Accusing Modi Of Silencing Dissent; South Africa's 30th National Freedom Day; Laureus World Sports Awards. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired April 27, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Hello and welcome to our viewers watching from around the world. I'm Anna Coren live from Hong Kong. 
 
Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, pro-Palestinian campus protests go global. What started at U.S. colleges is now being seen in Europe. 
 
U.S. officials warning to Iran amid concerns that tensions in the region could still escalate. 
 
And ahead of next month's elections in South Africa, the country is looking back on 30 years of democracy, we'll have a live report from Johannesburg. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
COREN: We begin with protests that have grouped college campuses in the United States and which have now spread to schools in Europe. The University of Illinois is warning of consequences if demonstrators don't leave an encampment there. Well, that follows a day of mostly peaceful protests across the country. 
 
But about 40 people were arrested in Denver after they tried to set up an encampment at the joint campus of three universities. 
 
In the U.K., students gathered outside University College London to protest the school's ties to Israeli academic institutions. 
 
Another group of students staged a pro-Palestinian protest in Warwick in central England. 
 
Well, Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has called the protests anti-Semitic and said they should be stopped. 
 
In an interview with CNN, U.S. secretary of state Antony Blinken was asked if he agreed. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Protests in and of themselves are not anti-Semitic. There are protesters and there are also activists who may have other agendas, who clearly are engaged in rhetoric. 
 
That is. But what we're also seeing is people, young people, people from different walks of life, who do feel very passionately, who've had very strong emotions about this anger. And I understand. I understand that. 
 
But we've certainly seen instances where that has clearly veered from a totally legitimate expression of views and beliefs to, in some instances, yes, clear expressions of anti-Semitism. 
 
When you hear some people chanting and supporting Hamas, what, what in the world does that mean?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: In Paris on Friday, dozens of students created a blockade in the main building of Sciences Po, one of France's top universities, CNN's Melissa Bell has more on that protest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Third day of protests in Paris t one of France's most prestigious university's school where the students have occupied another campus building. They'd occupied another one earlier on Wednesday. 
 
They'd been cleared out by the police in the end of that. Tonight at they've occupied this building, they've been there since yesterday evening and they say they intend to stay. 
 
The police presence here has gotten much greater but the students say that they're here to make their massive message heard, which is about calling for an end for the war in Gaza but also putting demands, negotiating with their universities. 
 
University accepts the pools for a boycott of companies that do business with Israel. There've been loud chants over the course of the day, very much a process inspired by what's happening on American campuses. 
 
Here's just boys, by the way, one of those universities that has a joint degree with Columbia, that's something that's been cited by students here today. But it is, they say, out of solidarity for the Palestinians and a protest that they intend to continue -- Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well as Melissa, just said the protests at Columbia inspired other students to take up the cause. Now Columbia has banned one of these student leaders from its campus. CNN's Miguel Marquez spoke with him about the inflammatory comments he made on social media. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KHYMANI JAMES, STUDENT PROTEST LEADER: Zionists, they don't deserve to live comfortably, let alone Zionists don't deserve to live.
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Khymani James, a spokesperson for the student protest at Columbia University, said this more than once in a personal social media post in January.
 <br>[03:05:03]
 
JAMES: The same way we're very comfortable accepting that Nazis don't deserve to live, Fascists don't deserve to live, racists don't deserve to live, Zionists they shouldn't live in this world.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): Confronted by CNN about his comments, James, unapologetic. 
 
JAMES: I think we need to shift the conversation from people's comfort to the hundreds of thousands of people who have been displaced, the tens of thousands of people who have been murdered by Israel. I think it's very --
 
MARQUEZ: And how do your words help?
 
JAMES: I think it's very important --
 
MARQUEZ: How do your words help?
 
JAMES: I think it's very important for people to understand that the conflation of anti-Zionism with anti-Semitism is woefully incorrect and wrong. Again --
 
MARQUEZ: So do you apologize?
 
JAMES: Again, as I mentioned earlier, we believe in the sanctity of life here at this encampment.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): Despite his calls for a class of people to cease existing, James nearly daily expresses his belief that Israel is committing genocide.
 
JAMES: While Israel plans to move forward with its genocide backed by the United States and other western powers, it is important to remember why we are here.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): After being confronted, James released a statement saying, in part, "I am frustrated that the words I said in an Instagram Live video have become a distraction for the movement for Palestinian liberation. I misspoke in the heat of the moment, for which I apologize.
 
Some Jewish students at Columbia say they have been called Zionists by protesters just for being Jewish. Other Jewish students have taken an active part in the protests for what they view as an overbearing Israeli response to the October 7 Hamas terror attack and a weak U.S. response to continued bloodshed.
 
JONATHAN BEN-MENACHEM, JEWISH STUDENT SUPPORTING PROTESTS: It's possible that pro-Palestine protests might make some Jewish students feel uncomfortable. But I will emphasize that, you know, the pro- Palestine protests here at the encampment are, you know, that they have fundamental values against hate and bigotry.
 
MARQUEZ: A Columbia University spokesperson tells CNN that Khymani James has now been banned from campus but won't comment any further on ongoing disciplinary proceedings -- back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Miguel Marquez in New York. 
 
Let's take a look at what student protesters are asking for. 
 
Their main demand is a ceasefire in Gaza. They also want their schools to divest from companies linked to Israel or profiting from the war and sever academic ties with Israeli universities. 
 
Brochure from past student protests has led Columbia to divest from some areas. In the 1980s, the University divested from apartheid South Africa. And in the 2010s, Columbia ended investments in fossil fuels and private prisons. But experts say it will be tough in this case. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
Joining me now is Mark Yudof. He is the presidency emeritus and professor of law emeritus at UC Berkeley School of Law. 
 
Mark, great to have you with us. 
 
How realistic are the protester demands?
 
MARK YUDOF, UC BERKELEY SCHOOL OF LAW: I don't think they're realistic at all. This has been going on for at least a decade, maybe longer. There's not a single university in America that has embraced the boycott divestment movement. 
 
And there are 30 states which have laws specifically related to this. There are federal laws, I think, in terms of what the lawyers are telling these presidents and boards of regions. It is not realistic at all. And I don't think it's going to happen and may very well, violate many statutes. 
 
One other thing I would add is, this is very odd. There's no BDS movement with regard to other countries around the world that have been accused of doing things or people don't like their government and so forth. 
 
It's a double-standard and Jewish people, pro-Israel people, they really understand that. 
 
COREN: Do you believe that these protests are anti-Semitic? 
 
YUDOF: I think some of them do do that if, at Columbia, if you're shouting at people and threatening them and you're engaged in harassment of Zionists and the line between a Zionist, most Jews are Zionists but not all. 
 
I think you have to look at how the recipient feels about it. And the first time you say from the river to the sea and phrases like that you get a pass. 
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
But when you've done it dozens of times, when it's orchestrated across the whole country, when the tents are all same size, when it's difficult to walk to your classes and feel that you're not being harassed or intimidated, I mean, that's really a problem. 
 
And I view -- not all but I view much of this as anti-Semitic. 
 
COREN: How difficult would it be for universities to divest from Israel-linked investments? 
 
YUDOF: Well, I think there are federal and state laws that prohibit them from doing so. No state legislature has adopted that position. No universities have adopted that position but they have -- and it's awkward politically, since it's only Israel. 
 
This by world standards a small country with a small population, that comes in for this sort of treatment. I also think, I mean just as parallel, I mean, it's difficult to enforce. A lot of these movements depended upon high technology developed in Israel. But they're not the company they're going after.
 
They're picking out which ones you go for, which ones don't. I think it's a perilous process. It's also difficult because a lot of universities invest in what amount to funds that invest in a wide range of countries, that are a wide range of stocks and bonds and so forth. 
 
And straightening all that out is -- it's difficult. 
 
COREN: As we know, these protests are taking place on campuses right across America. I mean, protesters seem to have momentum. This war, as we know between Israel and Hamas, it's not ending anytime soon. 
 
So why would the protests stop?
 
YUDOF: Well, I don't know when they will, if they will. Look. We've had protests at every step of the way. When Hezbollah sends rockets into Israel, the students are out defending them. 
 
So I mean, unfortunately -- and I really do think it's unfortunate -- if the world were to end tomorrow morning, I think some level of protests, maybe not quite as volatile, not quite as excited, maybe not as massive a participation. But this has been going on for a very, very long time and BDS is just
 
 one thing along the way. There always seems to be something going to isolate the Israeli state to do it as a colonialist power to view Jews as privileged. I mean, that's our reality in the United States. And they'll move on to the next item on the list. 
 
COREN: Now finally, there are calls for an investigation into Columbia's leadership and its handling of these protests by the University Senate. 
 
What do you make of that?
 
YUDOF: Well, there are others that have been on the other side and called for investigation, not because students were mistreated but because the University didn't respond quickly enough. 
 
I would say the faculty is an important constituency. They want to investigate, fine. But I think they ought to investing the harassment, intimidation of Jewish and Israeli faculty and students. 
 
The encampments, which are dangerous, the occupation of libraries, I think there's a lot more to investigate than just the administration at Columbia. 
 
COREN: Mark Yudof, we appreciate your time and your perspective. Thank you so much for joining us. 
 
YUDOF: Thank you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
COREN: We're following new signs of possible movement in ceasefire talks involving Israel and Hamas. On Friday Hamas said it's received Israel's response to its proposal and plans to review it. 
 
Meanwhile, more Palestinians are trying to return to their homes or what's left of them in northern Gaza. Hamas is demanding those people be allowed to return to the north without restrictions. 
 
In Israel, Egyptian officials are trying to jumpstart the talks. Egypt is said to be concerned about a possible IDF ground offensive in Rafah that could push Palestinians into Egypt. CNN's Jeremy Diamond has more from Jerusalem. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, over the course of the last couple of weeks, those ceasefire and hostage negotiations really have been stalled, backsliding even in certain respects. 
 
But on Friday, there appeared to be an effort to try and revive these negotiations. An Egyptian delegation traveling to Israel to meet with Israeli officials, to try and come up with a new framework for a potential ceasefire and hostage release deal. That new framework, if indeed they are able to put that together, is
 
 expected to be presented to Hamas in the coming days. And it will be critical to determining not only if a deal can be achieved in the coming weeks. 
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
But also potentially whether or not an Israeli military offensive in Rafah actually moves forward. There's no question that that is indeed the kind of time pressure element that is hanging over these negotiations and also very much influencing this last ditch effort, a full court press of sorts being put forward by the Egyptian government. 
 
Rafah is right on the Egyptian border. Egyptian officials have long held serious concerns about the possibility of Palestinians flooding across that border, if indeed a Rafah offensive took place. 
 
That's something that Israeli officials say will not happen. They say the population will instead be evacuated north. But it nonetheless is a factor influencing Egypt's thinking at the moment. 
 
Now, it's not clear if these talks will actually result in a breakthrough. But there is some very cautious optimism, once again, beginning to pick up, including from the U.S. national security adviser, Jake Sullivan. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: If you would ask me a week ago, I would've said I felt we were in a deadlock. Not that this was hopeless because we will get this done but that we were at a bit of an impasse. 
 
Today, I believe that there is a renewed effort underway involving Qatar and Egypt, as well as Israel, to try to find a way forward. 
 
Can I guarantee that will happen in the near term?
 
I cannot. 
 
But do I think that there is new momentum, new life in these hostage talks?
 
I believe there is. And it is our job to try to take that new life, push it forward and get to an end game, where every one of those hostages, including the American hostages, is home safe with their family. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DIAMOND: And look, there's no question that Israel and Hamas remain very far apart in these negotiations. 
 
But there has been some movement. A U.S. official saying that this latest framework allows for the unrestricted return of Palestinians to northern Gaza. That is something that Hamas has been pushing for, refusing to budge on over the course of the last several weeks. 
 
And now seemingly something that Israel is prepared to potentially agree to. But there are other sticking points of Hamas that haven't -- we have not seen the same kind of movement. Hamas still insisting on the total withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza on a permanent end to this war. 
 
Those are elements that Israeli government officials have not been willing to agree to up until now. So major questions about the fate of these negotiations, potentially decisive days ahead. 
 
And we've also seen, of course, the Israeli military beginning to put things in place to carry out that ground offensive in Rafah. So all of that very much hanging in the balance. 
 
Meanwhile, the war in Gaza is still continuing. We've seen airstrikes over the course of the last week. And a milestone once again, another grim milestone of Palestinians killed, more than 34,000 killed since the beginning of this war -- Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: The United Nations says lack of evidence prompted it to close some investigations into claims that staffers from the United Nations Relief and Works Agency took part in the October 7th attack. 
 
The original claim back in January was that 12 members of UNWRA took part in the attack. On Friday the U.N. and said it closed one case because Israel provided no evidence. It suspended three others because it says Israel did not provide enough evidence. It's still investigating the eight remaining cases. 
 
The U.N. says seven cases were brought to its attention in March and April. It has suspended one of those, pending additional evidence, and is investigating the six others. 
 
Well, relatives are mourning the death of a newborn Palestinian girl just days after she was saved from her dying mother's womb. Baby Ruwa (ph) Sabreen Jouda had been called a miracle on social media. 
 
Doctors were forced to deliver the baby through a C-section after an Israeli airstrike on the Rafah home the family were sheltering in. Doctors say the mother was 30 weeks pregnant and died from her injuries by the time they were able to deliver Baby Ruwa (ph).
 
Her name, which means soul in Arabic. She weighed less than 1.5 kilograms and doctors said she died Thursday due to weak lungs. The father and 3-year-old sister also died from their wounds.
 
Still ahead, the U.S. Defense Secretary analyzes Iran's attack on Israel. His warning to Tehran is next.
 
Plus why the U.S. believes China might be trying to influence its upcoming presidential election.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
COREN: U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin warned Friday that Iran should not feel overconfident after Iran's attack on Israel two weeks ago proved to be ineffective. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: What the Iranians learned I'm not really sure. But what they should learn is that, first of all, their systems don't work as advertised, that they employed a lot of -- a lot of munitions with the intent on creating significant damage in Israel. And none of that worked. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Austin also gave credit to Israel for defending itself. And he said allies were able to step in and assist Israel due to regular cooperation and joint training. 
 
There are of course, concerns of a possible wider conflict involving Iran and Israel. CNN's Fred Pleitgen is the only Western reporter on the ground in Iran. He has more now from Tehran, where anti-U.S. and anti-Israel rhetoric has been heating up. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Iran's hardliners flexing their muscles, screaming "death to America" and "death to Israel" at Tehran's main Friday prayers.
 
The staunchly conservative prayer leader saying the Islamic Republic will not back down. 
 
PLEITGEN: Iran has warned it will take an even harder line toward the U.S. and toward Israel in the future, saying that, if Israel attacks Iran or its assets one more time, the Iranians will strike back from their own territory.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Tensions in the Middle East remain at a boiling point after Iran launched a massive drone and missile attack against Israel in retaliation for the bombing of its embassy compound in Syria, killing several top Revolutionary Guard commanders.
 
Israel, the U.S. and other allies managed to take down most of the Iranian drones and missiles. But Israel then hitting back with a limited strike against an airfield in central Iran. 
 
The hardliners flying massive Palestinian flags, ripping into Israel's operation in Gaza and the U.S.'s support for Israel. The message here, Iran is ready for a confrontation.
 
"That attack we are even happy about," this man says. "We are praying day and night for a second and third attack."
 
And he says, "We've had these threats for a long time but the difference is now the people are strong. The IRGC is strong and the army is strong. And we have strong tools."
 
And this cleric says, "If the Islamic Republic of Iran will have more conflicts in the future, it doesn't mean we are warmongering. We're just reacting to the bullies."
 
But on the streets of Tehran, concern that current tensions could escalate and even turn into war.
 
"I believe the situation will get worse," this man says, "as both sides are more combative and, in my opinion, it will lead to war and a calamity for people."
 
This woman says, "We are definitely concerned, worried. But what can we ordinary people do about it?"
 
Iran's leadership says its military is ready for combat even as they say war is not in their interest -- Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Tehran.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: The U.S. is claiming it's seen evidence of China trying to influence the upcoming U.S. election.
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
Even though its leader Xi Jinping promised that would not happen. Well, that's what U.S. secretary of state Antony Blinken told CNN on Friday after a three-day trip to China. Kylie Atwood is in Beijing with more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: The secretary said his conversations with his Chinese counterparts here in Beijing were certainly better than they were last time he was here, 10 months ago. He said both sides were forthright about their differences.
 
But one area where there will only be growing tension is concerns about China meddling in U.S. upcoming presidential elections. Listen to our back and forth on that topic.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATWOOD: I want to ask you about a commitment that CNN has reported President Xi made to President Biden when they met in November. We reported that he told President Biden that China would not interfere in the upcoming presidential elections in the United States. 
 
But since then, there have been reports of online Chinese accounts that have falsely mimicked Trump supporters. 
 
Do you believe that these accounts violate President Xi's commitment? BLINKEN: What I can tell you is this. President Biden was very clear about that with President Xi and I repeated that today in my meetings.
 
ATWOOD: You repeated what?
 
BLINKEN: That any interference by China in our election is something that we're looking very carefully at and is totally unacceptable to us.
 
Look, it's something we're tracking very carefully. I can't speak to these specific reports. I can say that, as a general matter, we've been very clear with China: don't do it.
 
ATWOOD: But they're not violating the commitment yet, as far as you can tell?
 
BLINKEN: Well, again, I'd have to look at the specific reports that you're referring to. but we have seen, generally speaking, evidence of attempts to influence and arguably interfere. And we want to make sure that that's cut off as quickly as possible.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATWOOD: It is incredibly noteworthy that the secretary said that there is evidence of China trying to influence and potentially interfere in the U.S. elections. Of course, there will be even more focus on this as we head into November.
 
And he said there is concern about China trying to mirror what Russia has been doing in the United States with influence campaigns, trying to sow division, that already exist in the U.S. -- Kylie Atwood, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
COREN: Two hospitals in Kyiv rushed to evacuate patients on Friday, worried about a potential attack after Belarus claimed Ukrainian forces were inside what is a children's hospital. 
 
The scramble to move patients came up to the head of the Belarusian KGB, said soldiers were, quote, "hiding behind the backs of children." 
 
Ukrainian officials pushed back, calling it an absolute lie. Kyiv's mayor said all of the patients have been moved to other facilities.
 
The U.S. Defense Department is pledging $6 billion in long-term military aid for Ukraine. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin made the announcement on Friday, calling it the largest security assistance package to date. 
 
It will include interceptors for Ukraine's air defense systems, counter drone systems and other critical equipment. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AUSTIN: My Ukrainian friends, we know the burden that you all carry and you should know that all of us have your back. And we still do and we won't back down. Ukraine's struggle for freedom matters to us all. 
 
If Ukraine fell under Putin's boot, Europe would fall under Putin shadow. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Austin's announcement comes days after U.S. President Joe Biden signed off on a massive foreign aid package that included nearly $61 billion in assistance for Ukraine. 
 
Well, dozens of tornadoes wreaked havoc and destruction across the U.S. on Friday. Up next, forecasters warn the worst is yet to come. 
 
And Donald Trump's hush money trial wraps for the week as his former assistant takes the stand and the defense works to discredit a main witness. Details and a preview of what's next ahead on CNN.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
COREN: A multi-day severe thunderstorm event, which kicked off on Friday in the central U.S., will continue to wreak havoc through the weekend. Friday marked the busiest day for tornadoes in the U.S. since March of last year. 
 
With more than 60 reports of tornadoes tearing through at least five states, in Nebraska, one of the hardest hit areas, a railroad train and multiple cars derailed after being struck by a tornado on Friday afternoon. Fortunately, there were no injuries to the crew and no hazardous material was released. 
 
But the worst is far from over. More than 50 million people will be under severe weather threats on Saturday. The U.S. Storm Prediction Center says Saturday could be the most dangerous day. 
 
Well, jurors in Donald Trump's hush money trial have a three-day weekend to reflect on what they heard during the first full week of testimony. On Friday, David Pecker, the former publisher of the "National Enquirer," wrapped up four days of testimony. 
 
Trump's former assistant also took the stand. CNN's chief legal correspondent Paula Reid has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: So we have another day of court in a freezing courthouse. It's very cold in there. PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Former
 
 President Donald Trump's still not warming up to the reality of being on trial in the New York hush money case.
 
Today in court, David Pecker, the former publisher of the "National Enquirer," was back on the witness stand, tying Pecker's non- prosecution agreement with federal prosecutors to an agreement he made to sell the "National Enquirer," a deal contingent on the investigation into his company being resolved. 
 
From a timing standpoint, it would have added onto the stress of the transaction, Pecker testified.
 
They also tried to show how Pecker had other reasons beyond just helping Trump win the White House for running negative stories about Trump's opponents. Pecker testified that his magazine ran stories about Bill and Hillary Clinton prior to the 2015 Trump Tower meeting, where an agreement to help Trump was allegedly breached.
 
Running those stories was beneficial to AMI, Pecker testified.
 
After his testimony wrapped up, prosecutors used the last few hours of the day to call two additional witnesses. The first was Trump's longtime assistant.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Rhona, let me have the calls, please.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
Reid (voice-over): Rhona Graff was a fixture in Trump's office for decades. She testified how, before Trump became president, she was his gatekeeper, keeping close track of his contacts, emails, phone calls and meetings.
 
She told the jury it was a very stimulating, exciting, fascinating place to be.
 
REID: Court is not in session on Monday but the trial will resume on Tuesday, likely wrapping up a banking associate who worked closely with Michael Cohen to build the shell company he used to pay Stormy Daniels. 
 
And then it's unclear who the prosecution's next big witness will be -- Paula Reid, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Six months to go before the U.S. presidential election, it's unclear if Donald Trump and Joe Biden will actually debate each other before voters go to the polls. But on Friday, both candidates said separately, that they were ready to go. 
 <br>[03:35:00]
 
First, President Biden talked with radio host Howard Stern about it. 
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP) 
 
HOWARD STERN, TALK RADIO HOST: I don't know if you're going to debate your opponent.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I am, somewhere. I don't know when. I'm happy to debate him.
 
(END AUDIO CLIP) 
 
COREN: Well, the Trump campaign heard that and posted on X. 
 
"Let's set it up." 
 
A short time later, Donald Trump himself responded to Biden's comments outside the New York courtroom, where his hush money trial is being held. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: I've invited Biden to debate. He can do it anytime he wants, including tonight. I'm ready. Here we are. I invited him to the courthouse.
 
We're willing to do it Monday night, Tuesday night, Wednesday night, Thursday night or Friday night on national television. We're ready. Just tell me where. We'll do it in the White House. That would be very comfortable, actually.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
COREN: This is the first time President Biden has explicitly said he would debate Trump in this year's election. He's previously said it would depend on the former president's behavior. 
 
He'll have to be behaving himself. That's for sure. 
 
In India, the second phase of voting in the world's biggest election has wrapped up. The election process is a long one. The third of seven phases of voting is set to begin on May 7th. Results won't be available until June 4th.
 
Voters in some areas dealt with sweltering conditions during phase two as a severe heat wave gripped parts of the country on Election Day. 
 
Indian prime minister Narendra Modi eyes a possible third term in office. The country's opposition is accusing him of trying to silence his critics and warning that the world's largest democracy is under threat. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN (voice-over): A late night convoy of vehicles through the streets of India's capital last month set off shock and anger as Delhi's chief minister in the back seat had just been arrested on charges of corruption. 
 
Arvind Kejriwal is the fourth and most senior leader of the Aam Aadmi Party to be arrested for corruption. 
 
While India's largest opposition party, the Indian National Congress, recently had funds frozen. 
 
Both parties claim these actions are politically motivated as Modi and his ruling BJP, buying a third term in office, tried to eliminate all opposition. 
 
In a rare show of unity, opposition parties came together for a rally against what they believe is an undeniable threat to the nation. 
 
RAHUL GANDHI, PARTY LEADER, INDIAN NATIONAL CONGRESS: There's no democracy in India today. The idea that India is the world's largest democracy, it's a lie, it's a complete lie. 
 
COREN (voice-over): Earlier this month, AAP education minister Atishi claimed she was threatened with arrest unless she joined the BJP. 
 
COREN: Atishi, do you think that you will be arrested?
 
ATISHI, AAP EDUCATION MINISTER: I think it's entirely possible. 
 
COREN (voice-over): The Oxford-educated minister, now effectively running the AAP, says Modi and the BJP have weaponized government agencies, such as the enforcement directorate and tax department, to go after their critics. 
 
ATISHI: So today, these federal agencies are being used to destroy the opposition. And I think this raises very serious questions about free and fair elections and a level playing field in the country. 
 
COREN (voice-over): Claims the BJP denies. 
 
JAIVEER SHERGILL, SPOKESPERSON, BHARATIYA JANATA PARTY: Does prime minister Narendra Modi condone anybody crossing the red line of these political decency?
 
Does prime minister Narendra Modi tolerate anybody tearing the basic fabric of our constitution?
 
No. Prime minister Narendra Modi is very strict. 
 
COREN (voice-over): Polls suggest Modi and his BJP-led coalition will win the general election. But his Hindu nationalist policies and clampdown on civil rights and freedoms have these voters enraged.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Our democracy is being murdered. India is becoming a dictatorship. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We are here to fight the lies and the false propaganda this government has used to feed the public. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Banned (ph) Modi is about the global faith in the
 
 Indian economy. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): But Modi money trans (ph).
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The opposition is completely indebted.
 
COREN (voice-over): Pro government media dominates the airways, which means voices like Ravish Kumar, arguably one of Indias most prominent journalists, are being silenced. 
 
Having received death threats for his coverage, he resigned after a business tycoon considered close to Modi bought the company he worked for. Kumar now broadcasts on YouTube, where he's still allowed, at the moment, to voice his dissent. 
 
RAVISH KUMAR, JOURNALIST (through translator): If a country as big as India has accepted that can achieve glory without the media and if it has accepted that any claim doesn't need to be verified or debated, good luck to them. 
 
COREN (voice-over): While international leaders embrace Modi and the unrivaled potential of his powerhouse economy, critics say the world needs to wise up to what is really happening.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 <br>[03:40:00]
 
COREN: Police in Nigeria are making some progress tracking down inmates who escaped from prison on Wednesday. But it's slow going. And the high-profile incident is raising questions about Nigeria's prison systems. CNN's Stephanie Busari has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR AFRICA EDITOR: A massive manhunt is underway after 118 inmates staged a daring escape under the cover of heavy rain and storms on Wednesday night. 
 
Ten of the fugitives have been captured but the hunt is on for the remaining 108 inmates from the medium-risk correction facility in Suleja, Niger state, north-central Nigeria. 
 
Heavy downpours and fierce storms tore through the area, weakening the building's foundations and demolishing the perimeter fence of the facility, which was built during the colonial era, the authority said. 
 
Terrified residents in nearby homes describe how gunshots echoed, as officials desperately pursued the fleeing inmates. They described being frightened for their lives and now want the facility to be removed from the neighborhood. 
 
Authorities are scrambling to contain the situation but questions are being asked about the country's prisons after a series of high-profile jailbreaks in recent years. It is unclear who the inmates are and how dangerous they may be. 
 
But many of them may not even be convicted criminals. Many prisoners spend years in Nigerian prisons waiting for trials -- Stephanie Busari, CNN, Lagos.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: South Africa is marking a major milestone today, 30 years of democracy. But some of its citizens say there are new forms of inequality that need to be addressed. We'll explain next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
COREN: South Africa is celebrating today's 30th anniversary of the historic election that made the former political prisoner, Nelson Mandela, president. The nation's first all-race democratic election was a huge milestone in post-apartheid South Africa. 
 
The country is marking the event right now with a ceremony in Pretoria but with evidence that inequality still exists. 
 
And with crime and corruption running rampant, the once hopeful promise of democracy may be losing its appeal ahead of next month's critical elections. Those elections pose a serious threat to Mandela's party, the African National Congress, the ANC holding onto power. Our David McKenzie joins us now, live from Johannesburg. 
 
And, David, 30 years on, what does this mean to South Africans today? 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anna, it's a mixed bag and certainly it's a day to celebrate. There will be celebrations at the union buildings in Pretoria. 
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
The president will be speaking in a short while and I'm sure there'll be a lot of pomp and circumstance. But this is also a time to reflect on the very difficult situation many South Africans find themselves in. It's a deeply unequal society. And we look at one particularly problematic silent crisis. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SETH MAZIBUKO, SOUTH AFRICAN LIBERATION HERO: At a corner (ph) of death.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Liberation icon Seth Mazibuko lived the painful history of this country.
 
MAZIBUKO: Students were coming from that direction and police were coming from that direction. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAZIBUKO (voice-over): That morning of June 16, 1976, this was where the students, who were marching peacefully, they were raising their hands and fingers of peace. They were given bullets.
 
MCKENZIE: Protesting the apartheid state and its racist education system.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAZIBUKO: I still feel guilty to date that I led students and children out of the classroom to be killed.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Their sacrifice and the sacrifices of later generations helped topple the violent apartheid state, birthing a peaceful democratic South Africa, the Rainbow Nation, where everyone can vote. 
 
But for Mazibuko, 30 years on, the rainbow has faded.
 
MCKENZIE: Has the leadership of this country respected the sacrifices that you've made?
 
MAZIBUKO: Sold out.
 
MCKENZIE: Sold out?
 
MAZIBUKO: Many of the leaders that were supposed to be leading, they left this community. They left the very people that they were fighting for.
 
MCKENZIE: When thousands of students were bravely marching down these streets, they were fighting for a better future for South Africa. But decades later, here's a staggering statistic: more than 80 percent of grade fours cannot read.
 
Has it gotten worse over the 18 years of you being at the school?
 
PRINCE MULWELA, TEACHER, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: Yes, it's becoming worse and worse.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): At Morris Isaacson High School, famous for its role in '76, teachers like Prince Mulwela say that jobs and education are given to the politically connected. And corruption is rife. 
 
Primary students now come to his classes unprepared, he says. Corruption watchdogs call it a silent crisis.
 
MULWELA: We're living in a world, in South Africa, where it's all about politics. Everything is being politicized. So the education system is also being politicized. So that is the reason why probably we're experiencing such problems.
 
ATLEGANG ALCOCK, STUDENT, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: I feel honored being in the school because then I get to learn about history.
 
MBALI MSIMANGA, STUDENT, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: Some put their lives in danger for a better future, for better education.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): I spoke to two leading students at Morris Isaacson. They are proud of their school but acutely aware of the challenges that lie ahead.
 
MCKENZIE: Is there enough opportunity for young people like yourselves in this country?
 
ALCOCK: Right now, no.
 
MSIMANGA: It's going to be a struggle. And it is scary for us to be sitting at home and doing nothing.
 
ALCOCK: Especially when you know that you went to a university for so long and you have a degree, a qualification, but you're still struggling to get a job because of the unemployment rates.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Those rates are some of the world's highest. An uncertain future despite the bitter struggles of the past.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE: Now, government senior officials told us that the sheer amount and percentage of children in schools shows the progress they have made. But clearly from that report, you see there is very much a challenge in the education system in South Africa and many other aspects of public life. 
 
COREN: And these children obviously are the future. 
 
David, the African National Congress party, it's been in power since 1994, the end of apartheid. As you've just said, there are deep socioeconomic problems. Poverty is rife across the country. 
 
What can we expect at next month's election?
 
MCKENZIE: This is a critical election and I think most observers, including myself, think it will be the most tense or at least the hardest fought elections since 1994. The recent polls, which aren't necessarily on the face of it, that good at predicting elections in South Africa but they do show a trend. 
 
Show that the ANC is potentially dropping below that critical 50 percent majority mark, which means they will have to join up with smaller parties potentially to form a government. 
 
That places the country in a very tense situation potentially or at least exciting for those of the country who follow politics very closely because everything seems up for grabs. And despite the government and the president saying that the ANC is both the past and the future of South Africa. 
 <br>[03:50:05]
 
Many South Africans you speak to are disaffected with the level of delivery of services, the issues of crime and unemployment in this country. So the May 29th election will be very, very closely watched here and abroad. 
 
COREN: A pivotal moment, indeed. David McKenzie, we certainly appreciate your reporting. Good to see you. Thank you. 
 
Well, he's called the joker. But Novak Djokovic is all business when it comes to his pursuit of a record-breaking 25th Grand Slam title. 
 
Hear the tennis great reflect on his career so far -- after the break.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
COREN: The end of a memorable era is approaching for Brazilian football legend Marta. The 38 year-old revealing she will retire from international competitions this year, although she still hopes to play in the Paris Olympics. Marta is Brazil's all-time top scorer in both men's and women's competition. 
 
She debuted internationally in 2002 and played in the women's World Cup in 2007 when Brazil lost to Germany. She's been named FIFA player of the year six times, including five straight years from 2006 to 2010. 
 
Well, now to Madrid, where our Amanda Davies caught up with the tennis great, Novak Djokovic, and American football legend Tom Brady, who presented the joker with his fifth Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Novak Djokovic, congratulations, a fifth Laureus Sportsman of the Year. 
 
What does this mean to you?
 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC, LAUREUS SPORTSMAN OF THE YEAR: It means the world honestly, I'm thrilled and honored, obviously to be nominated and to win this award again. I'm just thrilled also to stand next to Tom as my sporting and live hero as well and a great friend.
 
So just all in all, a thrilling evening for me. 
 
DAVIES: Should we have a bit of a love-in? 
 
I was going to ask -- I was going to ask Tom. I know you are great friends. 
 
Tom, you are known as the GOAT. 
 
Where does Novak rate?
 
TOM BRADY, SPORTS LEGEND: Oh, there's nobody been better and he's an amazing player and talent. But a great man too. He loves his family and just committed to always doing the right thing, has great integrity. 
 
And what you've seen over all these years, the competition has always, in my view, brings out the best in people and it certainly has brought out the best in him. And it's like he's gone up against the easiest rivals. These guys are also just the most incredible tennis players and athletes. 
 
Knowing that Rafa's in there and obviously his rivalry with Rafa and Rogers is pretty exceptional. So it's a great award. It's a great night and certainly the most deserving award winner. 
 
DAVIES: You are still chasing records and titles. 
 
How much do you allow yourself to stop and appreciate what you've done?
 
DJOKOVIC: It's different for Tom and I. We come -- he comes from team sport. I come from an individual sport. So you take the credit but also you take -- you take the blame or, you know. 
 
But at the same time, behind the stage, it's really a team effort. I think I will truly be able to appreciate everything that we have accomplished really only post career, to be honest, because what you're -- while you're still active -- and Tom knows this -- it's, what's the next task?
 
What's the next challenge? 
 
What -- are we turning the next page?
 
And you have only maybe few days or a week max. 
 <br>[03:55:02]
 
Where you're contemplating on a great success but then you're thinking about the next one, right. 
 
What does it take for me to be even better and do it over and over again?
 
DAVIES: Is that the right approach or has retirement, Tom, maybe changed how you wish you had gone through your career and enjoyed the moments? 
 
BRADY: I think it happens different for everybody. I was very happy the way things ended for me. And you always will love the competition. That will never go away. You always love the sport but there's also different ways you can contribute as you go through life. 
 
And as you get later in your career, a lot like what Novak did, I started to think about, OK. 
 
How do I want the next chapter to look?
 
And even for us, we rarely looked back. We always want to look forward because we are ambitious people. And I think to be in a situation that we've been fortunate to be in, it takes a lot of ambition. And it's not like a switch you just turn off. So you just keep going as long as you can and you try to make the best of every opportunity you get. 
 
DAVIES: Have you tried to persuade him for another comeback?
 
DJOKOVIC: Yes, we talked about it.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
DJOKOVIC: Look, it's going to take time but --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: British King Charles is expected to return to public duties next week, according to Buckingham Palace. The announcement comes two months after he revealed he's being treated for cancer. 
 
On Tuesday, he and Queen Camilla will visit a cancer treatment center. It is expected to be the first of several engagements leading up to the first anniversary of Charles and Camilla's coronation. 
 
On Friday, the palace also released a new portrait of the king and queen to mark the commemoration. 
 
An orphaned killer whale calf swam her way to the open sea on Friday. She had been stranded for weeks in the lagoon in British Columbia, Canada, after her pregnant mother died. Officials had tried to herd the mammal to open water but she eventually made it to the ocean herself. 
 
Canadians who have been following the orca's saga are calling her brave little hunter. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. ANNA HALL, MARINE MAMMAL ZOOLOGIST: I am so very pleased. This is just fantastic news. And I love it when animals show us humans just how resilient, and cognitive aware that they are. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: We're wishing her --
 
(AUDIO GAP)