Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: First Came the Earthquake, Now the Floods; Efforts to Avoid a U.S. Government Shutdown; Eight New Emoji Coming to Smartphones and Computers. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired September 24, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello everyone. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Happy to be back with you today. I had a stellar trip to Los Angeles to 
 
 interview Simone Biles and her teammate Jordan Childs, and they were very happy to hear some of our viewer questions. We`ll be bringing that to you 
 
 tomorrow.
 
For today though, let`s get this show on the road. We begin in Washington D.C. where a major deadline is looming over the U.S. Congress. Legislators 
 
 in both houses need to pass a spending bill by September 30th in order to avoid a government shutdown.
 
The U.S. Constitution requires the government to only spend money appropriated, meaning set aside for a specific use, by Congress. The 
 
 spending bills need to be passed by next Monday since the government`s new funding year begins on October 1st. If Congress doesn`t appropriate the 
 
 money in time, a shutdown happens and federal agencies cease all non- essential functions.
 
The impact is huge. Millions of federal workers and military personnel might have to work without pay. Prior shutdowns have also forced some 
 
 national parks and monuments to close temporarily, caused flight delays and threatened nutrition assistance to low-income Americans.
 
House Speaker Mike Johnson unveiled a spending bill over the weekend to try to avoid this. It`s a temporary solution that would fund the government 
 
 until December 20th, not for the full year. That stopgap measure will start making its way through both chambers of Congress this week.
 
Government shutdowns have happened before under both Democratic and Republican administrations. And with only a week to get members of Congress 
 
 on board with the temporary plan, some agencies are already preparing for a shutdown just in case. 
 
Next we head to Japan, where a coastal region that was devastated by an earthquake in January has now been hit by treacherous flooding and 
 
 landslides. To all of our viewers there, we hope you and your loved ones are safe. 
 
Torrential downpours caused over a dozen rivers in the area to breach their banks in what officials call the heaviest rainfall there on record. Sadly, 
 
 several people are missing and at least six people have been killed.
 
CNN`s Hanako Montgomery has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This region was devastated by a massive earthquake on January 1st, a horrible start to the new year. And 
 
 now it`s reeling from what the Japanese weather agency said is the heaviest rainfall that it`s ever seen. If you take a look at some of these videos, 
 
 you can see entire roads and rivers have completely flooded.
 
People are wading through these flooded homes and businesses and just waste deep water. And if you take a look at some of these homes, they`re actually 
 
 temporary shelters that people evacuated to after that deadly January 1st earthquake that killed hundreds. Here`s what one resident had to say about 
 
 the double disaster.
 
AKEMI YAMASHITA, RESIDENT (through translator):  The earthquake occurred on January 1st. And again, the city became like a scene out of a movie in 
 
 September. I cannot help thinking the Noto region might be cursed or something. I`m shocked that so many unbelievable things happened in one 
 
 year.
 
MONTGOMERY:  People are exhausted. They`ve spent the past few months trying to reconstruct and rebuild this region. And now some of them are having to 
 
 start all over again.
 
Now, according to local government officials, part of the destruction that we`ve seen from these floods could have been exacerbated by the damage 
 
 caused from that earthquake earlier this year, in particular, because of the damage caused to embankments and revetments. 
 
Now, according to the Japanese government, they`ve dispatched members of the self-defense force, the police force, and also firefighters to try to 
 
 rescue any remaining survivors. They`re also there to assess the exact extent of the damage caused.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Next up, let`s talk about the science of crime fighting from Sherlock Holmes to Nancy Drew. Famous detectives have used fingerprints as 
 
 clues to track down criminals for decades, right? Well, now a new nanoparticle powder has been developed and it makes fingerprints even 
 
 easier to detect. CNN`s Anna Stewart has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Young PhD student Nick Ross is examining a breakthrough in forensic science, one that could solve some of the oldest 
 
 crimes and bring what was once invisible to the surface.
 
NICK ROSS, CHEMISTRY PHD STUDENT:  So what we`ve done, what we`ve aimed to do is create a new powder for developing fingerprints. Powders are the most 
 
 widely used, most successful methods for developing fingerprints, but they have lots of issues already in there. There`s always room for improvement.
 
STEWART:  The powder dusting method to identify fingerprints has been utilized since the 19th century, but even as the most widely used method of 
 
 developing prints, there`s only so much this earlier technique can detect.
 
ROSS:  What we`re hoping is that we`ll be able to get fingerprints that current powders can`t get. We should be able to get fingerprints that maybe 
 
 someone`s washed their hands more recently and they`ve touched something, but they`ve left residue behind, but we`re going to be able to get that 
 
 using a more sensitive powder.
 
STEWART:  Ross, along with other experts created this luminous substance made from tiny particles of matter and a sugar found on the exterior of 
 
 shellfish, made of natural oils and sweat fingerprints can sometimes evaporate, but the smaller particles and fluorescence in this new powder 
 
 can light up much smaller details.
 
ROSS:  This image is particularly nice because the fingerprint is so different to the banknote itself. It`s so clear. The fluorescence of the 
 
 particles are so strong that there`s no chance you mistake the detail for the banknote.
 
There`s even, as you can see a fluorescent detail in the background, but that fluorescent detail is not strong enough to contrast with the 
 
 fingerprint that`s been enhanced.
 
STEWART:  For now, experts can detect prints up to a month after it`s been deposited.
 
ROBERT HILLMAN, PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY:  So could we go back and visit cold cases? I would be reasonably optimistic about this because there will 
 
 inevitably be some residue left, perhaps not very much, but we don`t need very much.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  You just saw how scientific advances are making fingerprints easier to detect while technology is also making it easier to observe microscopic 
 
 images and capture them on video. Check it out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This video illustrating how fruit fly embryos form won first place in the Nikon`s Small World in Motion competition. In order 
 
 to capture the video, zoologist Dr. Bruno Vellutini used a technique called light sheet microscopy, which allows scientists to record video of a live 
 
 organism under the microscope. 
 
The Nikon Small World in Motion competition blends art and science by showcasing scientific and technological advances through videos and time-
 
 lapse photos all taken under the microscope.
 
Submissions this year included water droplets evaporating from the wings of a butterfly, a cell in the spinal cord of a zebra fish and other beautiful 
 
 scientific imagery.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Pop quiz hot shot, the original set of emoji created in 1999 are all permanently kept where? 
 
Samsung Headquarters, Museum of Modern Art, Japan`s Parliament or Tokyo National Museum.
 
Ding, ding, ding. Answer is the Museum of Modern Art or MoMA in New York. In 2016 it acquired the original 176 emojis made for cell phones and pagers 
 
 back in the nineties for its permanent collection.
 
For those of us who like to use emojis, we`re about to have some more options. Eight of them coming soon to a phone near you. We have an 
 
 exhausted face, a purple splatter, some root veggie, leafless tree, a harp, a shovel, a fingerprint.
 
All of these were approved by a nonprofit organization called the Unicode Consortium, who not only approve emoji, but all characters used in software 
 
 around the world. We`ll see these rolled out in the next few months. Which one`s your favorite?
 
Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. Why don`t you hear this? Meet Pesto, a nine-month-old baby penguin that is ginormous and becoming a social media 
 
 sensation.
 
He`s already bigger than both of his parents. Pesto is three feet tall and weighs a whopping 50 pounds. No ice cap.
 
And get this, he eats twice as many fish the average adult penguin eats. Pesto might shrink down some when he sheds his fluffy brown baby feathers 
 
 for the more classic black and white tuxedo look. But his keepers at Sea Life Melbourne Aquarium in Australia say he`ll always be a big boy.
 
All right, everyone. Remember, tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. Your word can make it in the show and boost our vocabulary. So put your unique vocab 
 
 word and definition in the comment section of my most recent post @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, and we`re going to pick a winner for 
 
 tomorrow`s show. 
 
Our shout out today is going to all of my badgers at Robidoux Middle School in St. Joseph, Missouri. Rise up. Have an awesome one, everyone. I`ll see 
 
 you right back here tomorrow on CNN 10.
 
END