Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Campus Confrontations Continuing; More Protesters Arrested; 12 Pro- Palestinian Protesters Arrested In Oregon; More Than 100 Protesters Arrested In UCLA; Biden Breaks His Silence On University Protests; Trump Trial; Stormy Daniels' Former Lawyer On The Stand; How One University Reached A Breakthrough; Brown University To Hold Israel Divestment Vote; Two Children Killed In Israeli Airstrike; Nearly 14,000 Children Killed In Gaza Since October; China Weighs On Apple Sales; Apple's Largest Ever Share Buyback; iPhone Sales Decline In China; Universal Music Group And TikTok's Licensing Deal; Primate Prescription. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired May 02, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Theo, that obituary was beautiful. May your dad's memory be a blessing for you always.
 
Wolf Blitzer is up next in "THE SITUATION ROOM" with much more on today's testimony in the Trump hush money cover-up trial among his guests, Former 
 
 Trump impeachment lawyer Robert Wray. That's next here on CNN.
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST:  It is 6:00 a.m. in Shanghai, 8:00 a.m. in Sydney, and 6:00 p.m. here in Atlanta. I'm Linda Kincaid in for Julia Chatterley. 
 
 And wherever you are in the world, this is your FIRST MOVE.
 
A very warm welcome to FIRST MOVE. Here is your need to know. Campus confrontations continuing. Twelve pro-Palestinian protesters are arrested 
 
 in Oregon after police arrest more than 100 at UCLA.
 
Donald Trump claims he's not allowed to testify at his hush money trial as the court hears his former fixer Michael Cohen had nearly 40,000 contacts 
 
 in one phone.
 
And Apple announces its largest ever share buyback as iPhone sales decline in China. All that and much more, coming up.
 
But first, the latest on those college protests across the U.S. In Oregon, police cleared the library at Portland State University, arresting 12 
 
 people. Authorities say only four of them are students. Pro-Palestinian protesters have been occupying that building since Monday.
 
In California, a cleanup is underway at UCLA's campus where police broke up an encampment and made more than 130 arrests. The total number of people 
 
 arrested on college campuses nationwide since mid-April has now surpassed 2,000.
 
Our Stephanie Elam is live for us at UCLA now. And so, Stephanie, this afternoon we saw that encampment was being pulled apart, cleaned up after 
 
 some pretty dramatic scenes this morning when police turned up. What do we know about those that have been arrested?
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  What we can tell you, Lynda, is that they, you know, quickly moved those people out of here. And I should note 
 
 that they were given several warnings that law enforcement was going to move into that camp and that they were going to break it up. And even when 
 
 they did start to do it around 3:00 a.m. local. They moved in, they backed off, and then they moved in again.
 
So, this was something that had given people plenty of time to leave if they wanted to. But where I'm standing right now is right in front of where 
 
 the encampment was. I'm going to step out of the shot so that you can see what it looks like now.
 
And we do have an update from Los Angeles PD saying that actually it was more than 130 people that were arrested. It was 210 people who were 
 
 arrested after all of this this morning. And just look at how quickly they have cleaned this up here on the campus. I mean, there were tents that were 
 
 just thrown about earlier. There was debris. There were water bottles. There was all sorts of refuse. They've come in here with a massive crew of 
 
 people to come in here and clean it up.
 
The chancellor is saying that while they wanted to have -- let their students have free speech, ultimately, it became a focal point and just of 
 
 serious violence. And so, that was a huge disruption to class, to the students and ultimately, they had to make the decision to bring it down 
 
 here.
 
I can tell you where I'm standing, there's a barricade here blocking off from where they've been working. And there's another barricade behind us 
 
 where they are keeping people off the grass except for the media here. So, really a much different energy on campus now, now that they've separated 
 
 this out so that they could clean this all up.
 
KINKADE:  And so, Stephanie, what have you learned about the protesters who were out there, especially those out in the early hours of this morning?
 
ELAM:  We were trying to figure out just how many people were actually in the encampment. And now, we have an idea, based on the statement from the 
 
 chancellor that the school sent out, and saying that ultimately, about 300 protesters did voluntarily leave when they started making those 
 
 announcements that they were going to move in here and take over this encampment and break it up.
 
So, that means more people left that were arrested, but still getting to know that that number of 210 people being arrested, that number going up 
 
 from what we heard earlier this morning just shows you how intense it was here on this campus.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, I mean, this seems just absolutely dramatic. Stephanie Elam for us in Los Angeles. Good to have you there. Thank you.
 
Well, for more on this, we're joined now by Graeme Blair. He is an associate professor at UCLA, and he was on the campus early Thursday when 
 
 the police moved in. Good to have you with us, Professor.
 
GRAEME BLAIR, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, UCLA:  Thanks so much for having me.
 
KINKADE:  So, you're part of the faculty. Why did you join the students in this protest movement?
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
BLAIR:  I think as faculty, one of our most important roles is to create an open discussion across campus about the most important issues that we're 
 
 facing in the world today, and the students who were in the encampment over the last seven days were doing just that.
 
The encampment was organized by the by Jewish Forces for Peace and students for Justice in Palestine. And they had a really beautiful set of 
 
 discussions about the most difficult issues in the conflict in Gaza. And unfortunately, they were interrupted in that mission.
 
And we saw that that was coming from the actions of administrations and universities from Columbia to Emory and across the country. And we felt 
 
 that we needed to be there in person to see what happens and to demand from the administration at UCLA that they allow these students to have these 
 
 conversations as part of our educational mission at UCLA.
 
KINKADE:  Professor, you were there this morning in the early hours of today when police moved in firing rubber bullets. We saw all that smoke. We 
 
 now know that 210 people were arrested and about 250 police were involved in that operation. Just describe for us how that unfolded.
 
BLAIR:  Earlier in the evening, what you could see in the encampment was singing and conversation among a set of people that had been there for 
 
 about seven days, exercising their right to free assembly and free speech.
 
And as the evening wore on, they ultimately were faced with a second night of brutality. The -- just the night before, the protesters were faced with 
 
 a set of external agitators who came to try to distract from their mission, which is to demand that the University of California and UCLA divest from 
 
 investments in Gaza that are contributing to the war there. And the university decided after that happened and after they failed to protect 
 
 students from that violence, to, as you're seeing here, draw their weapons and shoot them at these peaceful protesters.
 
KINKADE:  So, given that you are part of the faculty, what is the administrator saying to you? Are they speaking to you as part of the 
 
 faculty as -- to kind of your role in this?
 
BLAIR:  We've been talking with the administration from the very beginning. And in particular, since they made the decision to have a large rally that 
 
 involved very -- a group of counter-protesters that were hurling sexist and misogynist and anti-Palestinian rhetoric at the counter-protesters who 
 
 insisted on not reacting. I was there with them, and they wanted to keep the focus on divestment from the war in Gaza.
 
And so, we saw the events, particularly at USC, just down the road in Los Angeles, in which the police came in, and we demanded from the UCLA 
 
 administration a commitment to not bring in the police to this peaceful protest. And last night, they abrogated that commitment that was made 
 
 directly to us and invited in a range of violent actors who I watched rip our students and throw them through the air and slam them onto the ground.
 
We were there to bear witness to this violence and to be able to talk about it today so that the decision makers at UCLA, at the University of 
 
 California, and in the City of Los Angeles can be held accountable for what happened over the last two nights, which was to not keep our students safe 
 
 and to interrupt our educational mission, which the students were carrying on in their conversations about the war in Gaza and our role in that -- at 
 
 UCLA.
 
KINKADE:  So, we now know 210 people were arrested. Have you spoken to any colleagues, any students who were detained? You know what set of charges 
 
 they're facing?
 
BLAIR:  I was detained last night. I was charged with failure to disperse from an unlawful assembly. That unlawful assembly was declared by UCLA. I'm 
 
 a faculty member here. I was there with hundreds of students. We have a right to be there. And the students have a right to discuss their ideas.
 
I was taken in a jail bus across L.A. with graduate students, undergraduate students, and other faculty supporters. And I have just learned in the last 
 
 few minutes that that some of those faculty and students have not yet been released. And I demand that the University of California administration 
 
 immediately drop charges against anyone who has been there and to provide amnesty for those students.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
This is something that should be taken care of within our community, and it's unacceptable that protesters are -- and faculty, who you're seeing 
 
 here, are currently in jail because of exercising their right to participate in an open dialogue about some of the most important issues of 
 
 today.
 
What you're watching right now is professors being arrested. They're sitting there. And some of the people that you're looking at right now have 
 
 not yet been released from jail as of 3:00 this afternoon. They've been there for almost 12 hours.
 
KINKADE:  Wow. Can you speak to why they haven't been released? Are they facing more serious charges?
 
BLAIR:  All I can tell you is that I was personally there and I watched the arrest. I watched them being taken away. And if they're being charged with 
 
 something else beyond what I was cited for, then those charges are unjust.
 
The faculty were there to speak with the police. We asked them to de- escalate. We asked them to lower their weapons, to take their fingers off the triggers, and to recognize the fact that this is a group of students 
 
 who decided to have a peaceful protest that was then the night before interrupted by a violent mob.
 
And not only did the university not protect them on that night before, they then sent in, as you're seeing on the images on the screen, another force 
 
 of violence, which was the California Highway Patrol and a number of other law enforcement agencies who injured many of these students.
 
I was in the jail bus and saw that many of them had -- were bloodied and they face injuries that we haven't yet been able to document yet today 
 
 because so many people were arrested and the jail support teams are still out there seeking their release.
 
KINKADE:  And just quickly, are you worried that you could lose your job as a result of these charges, as a result of this protest? And do you see any 
 
 way forward with this movement, given other universities have come to some sort of agreement to at least sit down and have a discussion about 
 
 divestment?
 
BLAIR:  I'm a tenured faculty member. And so, I don't risk losing my job. But one of the beautiful things about this was that there were many faculty 
 
 who were contingent to our untenured, who decided it was so important to come out and protect the rights of students to talk about ideas on our 
 
 campus that they were willing to risk arrest.
 
And I think that the UCLA administration needs to recognize that. And they also need to recognize that our students have the right to talk about ideas 
 
 on our campus, and they need to provide them immediately with a promise of amnesty of any charges and to not put them through student administrative 
 
 procedures.
 
And just to be crystal clear, students should not face suspension or other charges. I was just walking around the quad this afternoon and I think a 
 
 lot of people have been talking about the graffiti there. And you can see - - I have a video from just a few minutes ago of the power washing of that graffiti and it's almost all gone now.
 
And so, really no reason to charge these students who were simply there talking about one of the most important issues of our time which is the war 
 
 in Gaza and the tens of thousands of deaths that are taking place there, important in their view with complicity from the U.S. government and even 
 
 our campus here at UCLA.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Graeme Blair, associate professor at UCLA, we'll leave it there, but we appreciate your time today, and we will follow up with you 
 
 on where these charges go. Thanks so much for joining us.
 
BLAIR:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, U.S. President Joe Biden weighing in on the college protests and criticizing some of the violence that we've seen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  This isn't a moment for politics. It's a moment for clarity. So, let me be clear. Peaceful protest in America. Violent 
 
 protest is not protected. Peaceful protest is. It's against the law when violence occurs.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Stephen Collinson is joining us now live from Washington. Good to see you, Stephen.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  Hi.
 
KINKADE:  So, we heard from Joe Biden speaking directly to the protesters saying that essentially you have a right to protest, but violent protests 
 
 are not afforded to you, essentially. This is the first time he's spoken since these protests erupted about two weeks ago. Is this too little too 
 
 late?
 
COLLINSON:  Well, I think the president was under mounting political pressure to come on camera and say something. He is rather an old school 
 
 president, unlike former President Donald Trump, he doesn't see that it's his job to tweet immediately about everything that happens every single 
 
 day.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
And I think there was some clear calculation going on in the White House about when he should speak about this. Had he delayed a bit longer, I think 
 
 it probably would have been rather negative to his political prospects.
 
I think the president's remarks were a function of his delegate political position, his position as president and head of state, who is expected to 
 
 weigh in on grave matters in the country, and a little bit about his own history. He's not -- it didn't have a history going back to the 1960s and 
 
 '70s of being a student radical, for example, he's always more of an establishment figure. So, what the president said, I think, is very much in 
 
 character.
 
His problem politically here is that to his left, he cannot really afford to alienate any more young, progressive voters because that's where the 
 
 energy is in the Democratic Party, and he's asking for a second term in six months. To his right, Donald Trump is the Republican nominee, is saying 
 
 that these protests are a symptom of a country out of control and cities and campuses on fire.
 
KINKADE:  And -- 
 
COLLINSON:  Biden cannot allow that to take, you know, hold among more moderate voters.
 
KINKADE:  And just on that, Stephen, Trump went further than that, calling these protesters raging lunatics and went on to suggest that it was some 
 
 sort of conspiracy that they were hired by some liberal group to take away attention from the crisis at the border. Does anyone buy that?
 
COLLINSON:  No, I mean it's one of Donald Trump's many falsehoods, but it's also one that is getting a pretty good airing on social media and 
 
 conservative media.
 
One thing this is taking attention away from, at least on the right-wing television shows is Trump's own trial. He's been on trial for two weeks in 
 
 New York. That could be detrimental to his political prospects. So, Trump, who was out on a campaign trail on a day off court yesterday, has every 
 
 reason to try and create as much noise around this as he can.
 
But this fits into his core political strategy, which is to say that Biden is old, he's weak, he doesn't know how to control the country, and what the 
 
 United States need is a strong man. And obviously, he says he's the person to come in and fix all this. It's a classic far-right Republican law and 
 
 order appeal to base voters.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Stephen Collinson, as always, good to have you on the program. Thanks.
 
COLLINSON:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, we'll get you your updated global weather forecast. Plus, Donald Trump's hush money trial back in action in New York. 
 
 Trump's legal team spent much of the day cross-examining a former attorney for Stormy Daniels. We'll have the complete coverage just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
?KINKADE:  Welcome back. Donald Trump's hush money trial continued Thursday with the defense cross-examining a former lawyer for Stormy Daniels. Keith 
 
 Davidson negotiated the hush money agreement between Daniels and Trump's former personal attorney, Michael Cohen.
 
Earlier, the judge overseeing the case held another hearing over accusations that Trump violated his gag order. Prosecutors want Trump to be 
 
 fined $1,000 per violation.
 
Our Kara Scannell was in the courtroom earlier. Good to have you with us, Kara. So, essentially, when we heard that cross-examination it seems that 
 
 Trump's legal team are trying to discredit him as much as possible and distance Trump from the deal that was done.
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Lynda, that's right. I mean, during the cross-examination of Keith Davidson, who has represented both Karen 
 
 McDougal and Stormy Daniels in their deals with Donald Trump and American Media, the publisher of the National Enquirer, they were trying to chip 
 
 away at his credibility, bringing up a number of different clients that Keith Davidson had worked with and a number of high-profile deals that he 
 
 was involved with.
 
One essence that they were really trying to underscore here throughout the cross-examination was to suggest that Davidson was a shady lawyer who was 
 
 trying to extort Donald Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCANNELL (voice-over):  New details from a key witness, the ex-attorney of an adult film star and Playboy model who brokered hush money deals at the 
 
 center of Former President Donald Trump's criminal case.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Getting ready to spend another day in the courthouse, which is bogus trial.
 
SCANNELL (voice-over):  Keith Davidson, back on the stand on day 10 of Trump's trial, cross-examined by Trump's attorney who attempted to 
 
 discredit Davidson by painting him as a shady lawyer. Meanwhile, prosecutors tried to show how Davidson's arrangement with a tabloid and 
 
 Trump's ex-lawyer Michael Cohen to kill two bombshell stories about Trump's alleged affairs directly impacted the 2016 election. Trump denies both 
 
 affairs.
 
In his testimony, Davidson recalled texting National Enquirer editor Dylan Howard on election night in 2016, as results came in in favor of Trump. 
 
 Davidson said he texts Howard, what have we done? Oh, my God, Howard replied. Davidson testified, there was an understanding that our efforts 
 
 may have in some way -- strike that -- our activities may have in some way assisted the presidential campaign of Donald Trump.
 
Prosecutors played an audio recording of Cohen saying Trump hates that they paid off adult film star Stormy Daniels. Cohen was heard saying, I can't 
 
 even tell you how many times he said to me, I hate the fact that we did it. And my comment to him was, but every person that you've spoken to tells you 
 
 it was the right move.
 
The payment and conspiracy of Trump's involvement in Daniel's hush money deal is the crux of the prosecution's case. Prosecutors also questioned 
 
 Davidson about Daniel sitting down with Jimmy Kimmel in January 2018.
 
Before the interview, Daniels and her attorney released a statement denying an alleged affair with Trump. But hours later, she told Kimmel it didn't 
 
 look like her signature.
 
JIMMY KIMMEL, HOST AND COMEDIAN:  Did you sign this letter that was released today?
 
STORMY DANIELS, ADULT FILM STAR:  I don't know, did I?
 
KIMMEL:  Wait a minute, that you can say, right?
 
DANIELS:  But that does not look like my signature, does it?
 
SCANNELL (voice-over):  After, Davidson said Cohen threatened to rain legal hell down upon her and threatened to sue Daniels multiple times and saying, 
 
 don't F with us. You don't know who you're F-ing with.
 
Later that year, Daniels said she felt she had to sign the letter denying an affair which she said was a lie.
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  If it was untruthful, why did you sign it?
 
DANIELS:  Because they made it sound like I had no choice.
 
SCANNELL (voice-over):  Throughout the sometimes testy cross-examination, Trump's attorney, Emil Bove, sought to paint Davidson as untrustworthy. He 
 
 zeroed in on a 2012 FBI investigation into possible extortion involving the selling of former wrestler Hulk Hogan's sex tape. Davidson said he was not 
 
 charged in connection to the case.
 
Bove attempted to tie Davidson's involvement with Hogan's alleged extortion plot to his hush money deals for Daniels and former Playboy model Karen 
 
 McDougal. Bove asked Davidson if he goes right up to the line without committing extortion. Davidson responded, I don't understand the question.
 
After court, Trump said he's pleased with how his team is doing.
 
DONALD:  We had a long day in court is always, but I'm very happy about the way things are going.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCANNELL (on camera):  Now, Trump paid close attention when his attorneys were cross-examining Keith Davidson. The jury did too. They were watching 
 
 both the lawyer and the witness as they were testifying. And they also did when the D.A.'s office called their next witness, which was a computer 
 
 forensics examiner. He was showing the jury the information that they recovered from Michael Cohen's cell phone, including a recording of Cohen's 
 
 conversation with Donald Trump about Karen McDougal. Lynda.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
KINKADE:  All right. Kara Scannell staying across the door for us from New York. Appreciate you. Thank you.
 
We are going to stay on this story. I'm joined now by scene and legal analyst, Joey Jackson. Good to see you, Joey.
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST AND CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY:  Thank you, Lynda. Good to be with you.
 
KINKADE:  So, how did you view the testimony of Stormy Daniels' former attorney? And how effective was Trump's legal team during the cross-
 
 examination?
 
JACKSON:  So, as to the testimony, I think it was effective with regard to explaining the deals. What deals? The deal between Karen McDougal, of 
 
 course, the Playboy model, in addition to Stormy Daniels. And the interaction with Michael Cohen, of course. Michael Cohen being Donald 
 
 Trump's fixer. And so, I think it was very important to lay out the scheme.
 
Remember the prosecution's theory. It's about a cover-up according to the prosecution, right? And about the fact that it's a conspiracy. And so, to 
 
 the extent that this witness laid out the interaction with Michael Cohen, laid out the deals that he engaged in, laid out the level of, really, 
 
 frustration that Michael Cohen -- he was having with Michael Cohen in terms of getting this done, I thought that was effective.
 
The issue though, Lynda, is going to be whether it ultimately can be tied into Trump, right? From a cross-examination perspective with the defense 
 
 was saying, hey, great, you dealt with, right, in substance. They cross- examined him, but just in boiling it down, what they were saying was, OK, that's nice. You dealt with Mr. Cohen. You had a deal with Mr. Cohen. You 
 
 had interactions with the with Mr. Cohen. You certainly had text messages and exchanges. What interaction did you have with Trump again? Oh, nothing. 
 
 And so, that's what they are attempting to do.
 
The Trump team needs to distance him, that is Michael Cohen, from Mr. Trump. Maybe he was acting on his own volition. Maybe he was doing this 
 
 because of respect for his boss, that is Michael Cohen's respect for Donald Trump. Maybe he thought that Donald Trump would just be pleased and happy 
 
 that he was doing this. But you have to tie in Donald Trump himself in order to get the conviction.
 
And so that's why, I think, the defense was really going. Whether it succeeded will be a jury determination. And there are ways away, Lynda, 
 
 from deliberating on the case.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, still plenty more witnesses to take this down, including that forensic analyst that we heard from this afternoon. But I just want to 
 
 ask you about what Donald Trump had to say outside of court this afternoon. I just want to play some sound.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  Well, I'm not allowed to testify. I'm under a gag order, I guess, right? I can't even testify at all. Now, we're going to be appealing the 
 
 gag order. I'd love to answer that question. It's a very easy question. The easiest question so far. But I'm not allowed to testify, because this 
 
 judge, who's totally conflicted, has me under an unconstitutional gag order. Nobody's ever had that before. And we don't like it, and it's not 
 
 fair.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  So, despite that gag order, he again attacked the judge, calling the judge totally conflicted. But he also said he can't testify. Is that 
 
 true?
 
JACKSON:  So, two things. Number one, he could attack the judge. That's perfectly fine. He's not going to be held in contempt for that. The judge 
 
 is permitting him to attack himself, that is the judge. The judge is permitting him to attack Albert Bragg, that is the prosecutor. The judge 
 
 does not want Mr. Trump to go after witnesses, right, that's a no, no. To go after family members, that's a no, no. To go after staff or core 
 
 personnel, that's a no, no as well. And so, there are limitations with regard to what he can say.
 
So, he can say quite a bit sort of suggest that he can't say anything is not true on his part. You know, moving on with respect to him testifying. 
 
 Of course, he can testify in the case. Of course, he can take the witness stand. Of course, he can state his piece with respect to what he knows or 
 
 doesn't know, where his level of involvement or not involvement.
 
So, when he says testify, does he mean he can't speak to the public regarding certain things? He certainly can. He just can't violate the 
 
 specific provisions of the gag order, which, by the way, also, Lynda, includes staying away from attacking the jury. And so, that is a 
 
 misrepresentation.
 
Last point. Remember, this is in the context of a presidential election. So, you're going to come out and say everything's going great. Very pleased 
 
 with my team. Nothing to see here. The fact that I'm here is ridiculous. You have to do that. There's a political imperative and there's a legal 
 
 imperative. The one that counts is going to be what the jury says, that's the legal part. And they'll obviously get to decide when all of the 
 
 testimony and evidence is in.
 
KINKADE:  And well, before that happens, we will speak again. No doubt about that. Joey Jackson, as always, good to have you on.
 
JACKSON:  Thank you, Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, addressing the crisis on U.S. campuses. We're going to hear from a student leader who played a key role in a 
 
 breakthrough at Brown University. We'll find out how in just a few moments.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. I'm Lynda Kinkade. A reminder of our top story. The U.S. president has now addressed the campus unrest gripping the United 
 
 States, saying that the right to free speech and the rule of law must be upheld.
 
Some of the most intense scenes Thursday were at UCLA, where police moved in to clear a pro-Palestinian encampment. More than 100 people were 
 
 arrested. A cleanup operation is underway there. The situation on campuses across the country remains deeply strained.
 
And in a rare breakthrough, Brown University has reached an agreement with student protesters. The school says it will consider whether to divest from 
 
 companies that "facilitate" the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territory.
 
In return, demonstrators agreed to dismantle their encampments at Brown. Divestment has been a big demand for many protesters across the U.S. A vote 
 
 at Brown University is expected in October after talks with students and advisers.
 
Well, Bella Garo was one of the students from the encampment who negotiated with the university. She joins us now from Providence in Rhode Island. Good 
 
 to have you with us.
 
BELLA GARO, STUDENT, BROWN UNIVERSITY:  Thank you for having me.
 
KINKADE:  So, Bella, you were one of the students who negotiated this agreement to stand down the protest, and in response, you'd get a 
 
 discussion on a divestment proposal. How would you describe this outcome?
 
GARO:  I think it is a step in the right direction. Certainly, it is not everything we wanted. Ultimately, what we want is full divestment from 
 
 companies facilitating the Israeli occupation and genocide in Palestine, but this is definitely closer than this university or most universities in 
 
 the country have ever gotten to actually agreeing for that divestment within their university.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, I mean, even getting to this point of having that discussion of a proposal is almost unheard of. So, take us through the timeline. This 
 
 month you're going to speak with the corporation of Brown University to argue for divesting funds from companies connected with the Israeli 
 
 military. And then what happens?
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
GARO:  What happens is we continue to organize. We will not allow this to pacify us. We will continue pushing the university, keeping the pressure on 
 
 them, so that when October comes, the corporation will vote yes for divestment.
 
The corporation is a governing body of Brown University. It has over 50 members. That's a lot of people for us to lobby and have discussions with, 
 
 but that is exactly what we intend to do.
 
KINKADE:  Bella, from your knowledge, has the university ever divested from a company following a protest like this? Is there precedence?
 
GOLODRYGA:  There is precedence. Brown University has actually divested on numerous occasions, including from South African Apartheid back in the 
 
 1980s from the tobacco industry, from Darfur -- or Sudan, sorry, following the genocide in Darfur in the early 2000s, as well as the fossil fuel 
 
 industry.
 
KINKADE:  So, what do you make of your case? Talk to about -- talk to us about the case you're putting forward and which companies will be part of 
 
 this proposal.
 
GARO:  Well, we proposed a few different lists in a lengthy report that we released just earlier this year. The truth is, we cannot actually know 
 
 exactly which companies are targeted because the investment portfolio is protected by a certain copyright laws. That means that we can't actually 
 
 see the full of Brown University's investment portfolio.
 
However, it is safe to assume that Brown University is probably directly or indirectly invested in any number of the companies, including arms like 
 
 defense industry companies as well as things like Caterpillar, which has provided bulldozers to destroy Palestinian homes in Palestine. Yes.
 
KINKADE:  So, Bella, some of the headlines in response to this proposal suggests that Brown University has conceded to the anti-Israel protest 
 
 Brown U. caves to anti-Israeli protesters, Brown negotiates with terrorist sympathizers. What do you make of that framing?
 
GARO:  I mean, of course, it's disappointing. I do wish people could see exactly what we're fighting for. And what we're fighting is for peace and 
 
 for freedom, for liberty. Really, these are things that our country prides itself on, this liberty and justice for all. And I do wish that they could 
 
 see that that is actually exactly what we are fighting for here.
 
But at the end of the day, Brown University didn't just cave after one little protest. The Brown University community has actually been pushing 
 
 for divestment from the Israeli occupation for years, and time and time again, through referenda, through polls our community has demonstrated 
 
 that, in overwhelming numbers, we do actually support this divestment campaign. So, I do disagree with this idea that after one encampment, Brown 
 
 University simply caved.
 
KINKADE:  Bella Garo, we appreciate your time today and sharing your perspective. Thanks so much.
 
GARO:  Thank you.
 
KINKADE:  Well, I want to turn our attention now to what is at the heart of these protests, the war in Gaza itself. We're learning now that two young 
 
 children have been killed in an Israeli airstrike at the al-Shaburah refugee camp in Rafah. It happened Tuesday night, according to officials in 
 
 Gaza.
 
More than 1 million civilians are sheltering in Rafah with nowhere else to go. And in response to the strike, the IDF referred CNN to a previous 
 
 statement which said it was taking precautions to mitigate harm to civilians.
 
Well, CNN has been investigating another strike on a different refugee camp two weeks ago. More than a dozen people were killed, most of them children, 
 
 at the al-Maghazi refugee camp in Central Gaza. Yet, the Israeli military still hasn't taken responsibility for that attack. Jeremy Diamond has more 
 
 on what CNN has learned since. And we need to warn you, his report contains distressing images.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN correspondent (voice-over):  This grainy home video is the closest Mona Audatallah will ever get to seeing her 10-year-old 
 
 daughter. A stack of school certificates, a wardrobe of her favorite clothes, the perfume she used to wear. All that remains of the daughter 
 
 Mona poured everything into.
 
There is no Shahed now. Every time she came in, she said, Mom, I would say my soul, my soul, my soul is gone.
 
Shahed was one of 10 children killed when an Israeli airstrike hit the crowded street in the al-Maghazi refugee camp where she was playing with 
 
 her friends.
 
Her pink pants, impossible to miss, among the small bodies splayed around a foosball table in the chaotic aftermath.
 
Two weeks later, the Israeli military still won't take responsibility for the strike that killed her.
 
CNN provided the IDF with the coordinates and time of the attack based on metadata from two different phones in the immediate aftermath.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
The IDF said they did not have a record of that strike. They said they carried out a strike at a different time than described and that the 
 
 collateral damage as described in the query is not known to the IDF. The IDF makes great efforts to mitigate harm to the civilian population from 
 
 areas where strikes are being carried out.
 
Evidence recovered and documented by CNN at the scene of the strike paints a very different picture of Israeli military responsibility. This circuit 
 
 board and bits of shrapnel, walls and shop steps distinctively pockmarked and a small crater barely a foot wide, all pointing three munitions experts 
 
 to the same conclusion. The carnage was likely caused by a precision-guided munition deployed by the Israeli military.
 
CHRIS COBB-SMITH, WEAPONS EXPERT:  I've seen these strikes so many times. There's a relatively small crater in the road. There's no large shrapnel 
 
 holes or fragmentation holes that would have been which would have been caused by, say, a mortar round or an artillery round. The fragmentation is 
 
 consistent.
 
DIAMOND:  So, in your view, this strike was caused by a precision-guided drone fired missile?
 
COBB-SMITH:  Absolutely. This is an Israeli munition. The local militias, the local forces do not have anything with this amount of sophistication.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Before carrying out the strike, Israeli drones would have surveilled the al-Maghazi refugee camp from above. Seconds later, the 
 
 missile hits the street below, landing in the middle of the road, just a few feet away from the foosball table where Shahed and her friends were 
 
 playing that day, delivering certain death.
 
Against all odds, these children have returned to play at the very same foosball table, including some of Shahed's friends.
 
I miss her a lot, Sama says, wearing a necklace Shahed made her. She says she was nearly killed with her friend, going home moments before the strike 
 
 to drink water.
 
Others were not as lucky. Eight-year-old Ahmed is fighting for his life, bleeding from his brain, his skull fractured. His chances of surviving are 
 
 slim, his doctor explains. He is fighting not to become the 11th child killed in that same strike.
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  And we regret to report that Ahmed died of his wounds this morning. He was eight years old. Ahmed is the 11th child killed in that 
 
 Israeli strike. Almost 14,000 children have been killed in this war in Gaza since October 7th, according to UNICEF.
 
We're going to take a break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back to FIRST MOVE. I'm Lynda Kinkade. In today's "Money Move," green arrows across the board on Wall Street, a better tone for U.S. 
 
 stocks after Wednesday's post Fed meeting volatility. Tech stocks rallied 1.5 percent, and the S&amp;P snapped a two-day losing streak. There will be new 
 
 market tests to come on Friday when the U.S. releases its monthly jobs report.
 
Well, a mostly lower day in Asia, but Hong Kong stocks rose well over 2 percent, and shares of Chinese electric vehicle maker, Nio, spiked more 
 
 than 20 percent. It says car deliveries more than doubled last month.
 
In other news, we've finally gotten to the core of tech earning season. Apple just releasing its latest quarterly results. The company is reporting 
 
 a 10 percent decline in iPhone sales. Its sales in China fell yet again. But results were better than expected. Overall, revenue from services hit a 
 
 record and shares are rallying in afterhours trading.
 
Well, Apple has also announced that it is raising its quarterly dividend and will repurchase more than $100 billion worth of its stock, its largest 
 
 buyback to date.
 
Lance Ulanoff joins me now. He is the editor at large of TechRadar. Good to see you.
 
LANCE ULANOFF, EDITOR AT LARGE, TECHRADAR:  Good to be here.
 
KINKADE:  So, firstly, just take us through -- I want to get to the iPhone in a moment, but firstly, take us through the overall big picture revenue 
 
 results and also this historic buyback of shares.
 
ULANOFF:  Yes. Well, so it was -- I'm not -- I never expect this quarter to be all that great, you know, because it's not -- it's the quarter after 
 
 Apple sort of, you know, bigger quarter from all the iPhone sales when they launched a new iPhone. But this was kind of an interesting quarter because 
 
 everything except, you know, the Mac and services was down. So, it's kind of interesting to see year over year, the Mac to rise. Services, not a 
 
 surprise at all driven by iCloud, driven by growth in Apple TV Plus, and driven by payment services. All those things help sort of float it up.
 
But this is increasingly Apple's business, you know, relying on services to drive growth while other things are sort of pulling back. One thing that 
 
 was really interesting that Tim Cook said during the earnings call afterwards was he was really touting what's about to happen next week. So, 
 
 he's looking forward.
 
You know, next week is supposed to be what we believe is the iPad launch, where you have a number of new iPads that may show up on Tuesday of next 
 
 week. And he said he expected, in that sector, in iPads, double-digit growth in the next quarter for iPads. That's a big deal because iPad is 
 
 never something that tends to see that much that much growth. It sort of waxes and wanes.
 
KINKADE:  And that's despite the fact that the Apple iPad is facing heightened regulations in the E.U. What impact could that have for the 
 
 company over the next six months?
 
ULANOFF:  You know, there's so much regulation coming out of the E.U. for tech companies, but you can see how Apple kind of moves rather quickly to 
 
 deal with it. Like, for example, suddenly we all have USB-C ports on our iPhones. And so, I think they mostly take it in stride. I don't think that 
 
 it's going to have any real impact on them because they're sort of baking it in by building in the technology and doing what they have to do.
 
Now, they're not happy about allowing people to get their apps from other parties, from parties other than them, but, you know, they've still got a 
 
 lot of strict rules around it. So, you know, right now, I just don't see it having a big impact.
 
What's going to have the biggest impact for Apple is whether or not they deliver real innovation, something truly exciting next week on the iPad 
 
 front, because iPads have just not been that big of a growth business for them over the last, like, five years or so.
 
KINKADE:  And of course, iPhone sales in China, its biggest overseas market, has been plunging thanks to rising competition. So, iPhone sales 
 
 not faring so well there.
 
ULANOFF:  No, no, they're always -- you know, there's always had (INAUDIBLE). So, they said that, you know, in urban areas in China that 
 
 they are like, the top two selling phones. But China is a -- it's a really big country. And it -- you know, it has a lot of big manufacturers out 
 
 there that are not Apple selling iPhones and selling them for a lot less and matching Apple on features.
 
So, there's no reason for them to get them. And obviously, there's a lot of tension right now between China and the U.S. and sort of the tech space. 
 
 And I think it's an area -- a true area of uncertainty for Apple. But Apple is deeply invested in China. You know, they just opened more stores there. 
 
 Tim Cook just went there trying to sort of cement relationships.
 
But I think it's one of these really weird tech/geopolitical situations that no one really understands how it's going to work out, even though it's 
 
 such a critical market for so many big tech companies.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
KINKADE:  And I wanted to get to the question on this cute little robot, just as a sheepdog. I don't think we have time for it, but I just want to 
 
 show the pictures. Pretty adorable, right?
 
ULANOFF:  Sparkles, sparkles. It's the same -- you're looking at the same robot. One is wearing a costume. It's so crazy what a costume can do to a 
 
 robot.
 
KINKADE:  I just love that. That deserves its own segment. Maybe next time. Lance Ulanoff, thanks so much.
 
ULANOFF:  It's a pleasure.
 
KINKADE:  Well, it will be -- it won't be a cruel summer, rather, after -- all music fans on TikTok after they got a high-profile royalty resolution. 
 
 Artists including Billie Eilish, Adele, Ariana Grande will soon have their songs back on TikTok after a licensing agreement between the app and 
 
 Universal Music Group.
 
Universal, of course, pulled the music from TikTok three months ago after failing to reach an artist compensation deal with that site. Taylor Swift, 
 
 another Universal artist, began posting some of her songs on TikTok again last month after reaching a separate agreement. Well, today's deal also 
 
 addresses Universal's concerns over A.I. generated content.
 
Well, I want to turn to weather now. In Southeast Asia is suffering an intense heat wave. Records have already been broken in Thailand and the 
 
 Philippines, just to name a few. The region waiting for those monsoon rains to start later this month, hopefully bringing some much-needed relief. 
 
 Well, these kinds of events are expected to become more common as the world heats up.
 
Well, for more on this, we're joined by Chad Myers. And it's really, really tricky, though, if the monsoon rains hit and the ground's already that dry.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Right, right. Exactly. And we -- all we would really love is a cloud. And you could see the skies there. Not really 
 
 even a cloud in the sky. And temperatures are 110, 43.6 Celsius there. Now, that is hot.
 
And it didn't even cool down in the overnight. Bangkok only got down to 31. So, I mean, you're not even cooling the house down in the evening hours. 
 
 So, you open up the doors, open up the windows and nothing really happens. Your house just stays warm.
 
Not seeing any showers really. Nothing significant here. Nothing more than about 10 millimeters, which is about that much. Not going to see rain for a 
 
 while. We don't even expect rain for a while. Now, it will cool down a little bit. Bangkok will get down below normal for a few days, but it's 
 
 still so sweltering hot there. People are not able to even get shelter out of the sunshine, not able to get to air conditioner, obviously, in many 
 
 areas.
 
Even Dhaka cools down, but after some very, very hot days in a row, waiting for the monsoon, still a few weeks away, Lynda, maybe as many as like five 
 
 weeks away for some people.
 
KINKADE:  It's a hot time to be in Dhaka.
 
MYERS:  Yes, sure.
 
KINKADE:  Chad Myers. Good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
MYERS:  You bet.
 
KINKADE:  Well, still to come, one orangutan in Indonesia has stunned researchers with behavior never seen before by a great ape. We'll tell you 
 
 exactly what he did after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. Well, it is a world first. Scientists in Indonesia have observed an orangutan apparently treating a wound with a medicinal 
 
 plant. You can see the orangutan, Rakus, who -- kind of bring up these pictures -- he was badly injured on his face after a fight with another 
 
 orangutan. He then chewed leaves from a plant with pain relieving properties, applying the juices directly to the injury and pressing the 
 
 plant on it like some sort of bandage. Now, this is the first-time scientists have documented this kind of behavior in a wild animal.
 
Well, finally, on FIRST MOVE, a portrait fit for a princess. Britain's Princess Charlotte, turning nine years old, and commemorated with this 
 
 official photo taken by her mother, the Princess of Wales. Her birthday comes about a week after her younger brother, Prince Louis, turned six. The 
 
 family is remaining largely out of the public eye, as Catherine undergoes treatment for cancer.
 
Well, while young Charlotte may be third in line to the throne, her mom describes her as being "the one in charge." Well, we wish her a happy 
 
 birthday and all the best to her mother.
 
That just about wraps our show. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Good to be with you this week. Hope you have a great weekend, and thanks for joining us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END