Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: IDF Presses on with Raid on Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza; Trump Facing Monday Deadline to Post $464M Bond; Few Details on Princess' Health as she Recovers from Surgery; Ryanair CEO: Engineers Found "Spanners under Floorboards"; Boeing CFO Predicts Big Losses after Door Plug Blowout. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired March 21, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREARK)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: It's 1 pm here in London. I'm Bianca Nobilo. This is "Connect the World". From Saudi Arabia to Egypt 
 
 America's top diplomat makes his sixth visit to the Middle East as Israel and Hamas inch slowly towards a possible ceasefire and hostage deal. 
 
A plan for hundreds of Kenyan police to restore order in troubled Haiti is now on hold. So we'll have a live report from Nairobi. And the clock is 
 
 ticking. Donald Trump hasn't got long to secure a half billion dollar bond to appeal his civil fraud case in New York.
 
Warnings blast out over loudspeakers in Northern Gaza, telling people trapped inside Al-Shifa hospital that if they leave, they will be shot. The 
 
 IDF says its quote; precise operation around the medical complex is entering its fourth day. But Gaza Civil Defense describes the area as a 
 
 battlefield. Some 3000 people are believed to have been sheltering in and around the hospital when the raid began the Palestinian Health Ministry 
 
 says.
 
Meantime in a brazen rebuke of the U.S. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says a major assault on Gaza southernmost city of Rafah now home 
 
 to more than a million displaced Palestinians will go ahead. It comes as U.S. Secretary of State -- June Israel on Friday as part of his latest 
 
 Middle East tour. 
 
Antony Blinken arrived in Egypt on Thursday to meet with its president as well as regional representatives including those from the UAE, Qatar and 
 
 the Palestinian Authority so a lot of moving parts here. Jennifer Hansler is following developments from Washington and our Nada Bashir is in London. 
 
Nada, let's begin with you. What is the latest that we're hearing from people on the ground about the situation at Al-Shifa Hospital because we 
 
 understand that if people leave, they will be shot? But does that mean that these hundreds of if not thousands of people who were taking shelter there 
 
 just have to remain there trapped while the area around them is attacked?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well look, Bianca more than four days on and communications with people on the ground and inside Al-Shifa are still 
 
 fought to say the least. And we have been getting trickles of first hand testimonies from eyewitnesses from civilians inside the hospital describing 
 
 the scene that they are facing now more than four days on.
 
And of course, we saw those videos emerging with the loudspeakers heard from the Israeli military, which is surrounding the Al-Shifa Hospital 
 
 warning civilians, as you mentioned, that if they do leave the hospital that they will be shot that there are ongoing clashes around the hospital 
 
 complex.
 
And Hamas for its part or Hamas' military wing rather, has acknowledged that its fighters and militants are in fact engaged in what they've 
 
 described as fierce clashes with Israeli troops in the vicinity. But of course, as we understand it, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry, 
 
 there aren't believed to be some 3000 people inside and around the Al-Shifa Medical Complex. 
 
We've been hearing testimony from civilians who live in the area filming videos on their phone of the airstrike was took place earlier in the week 
 
 of the ongoing shelling around the hospital in the sound of live fire. We heard from one medical student who is trapped inside the hospital who 
 
 described patients and medical staff really struggling with the shortage of course in running water, running out of food and electricity to keep the 
 
 functioning of the hospital going. 
 
And of course, this is one of the hospitals that is barely functioning anymore it has to be said. But also saying that they were unable to move in 
 
 and around the various hospital buildings to treat those injured that those who had attempted to flee the hospital had been shot by sniper fire.
 
One woman speaking to CNN sent us an audio recording saying that she witnessed a man looking out of the window of the second floor and also 
 
 being shot by sniper fire. And of course the Israeli military has described this as a precise and targeted operation. 
 
They say they are focused on securing the release of hostages that they are targeting Hamas militants inside the hospital. We've also been hearing from 
 
 civilians who have been able to flee the area around the Al-Shifa Hospital who heeded warnings from leaflets that fell from the sky earlier in the 
 
 week from the IDF telling them to move southwards. 
 
They say they were met with tanks that they were interrogated and stripped and they were told to move southwards. But of course, as we know, the 
 
 situation in the south is also extremely, extremely difficult.
 
NOBILO: Nada thank you. Let's move to you Jennifer Hansler you're following the developments from Washington. Now Antony Blinken maintains he is 
 
 optimistic that a ceasefire deal can be reached but does the evidence and what we're hearing from both sides in this conflict bear that out? 
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
JENNIFER HANSLER, CNN STATE DEPARTMENT REPORTER: Well Bianca, I think we have seen this sense of optimism before. You'll remember just a few weeks 
 
 ago, President Biden indicated that there would be a deal in a matter of days that ultimately did not bear out.
 
However, Blinken says that the gaps are narrowing, and he does believe that a deal is on the table is possible. He said Hamas rejected the initial what 
 
 he described strong proposal that was put forward by negotiators and put forward additional demands and requests. He did not go into details about 
 
 what those new demands and requests are. 
 
We know in the past some of these gaps where Hamas' refusal to give the names of hostages that it plan to release and it's caused for Israel to 
 
 eventually agree to a permanent ceasefire and withdrawal of all of its troops from Gaza. Israel has said that those are both no goes for it. 
 
And of course, all of this is set against the backdrop of the humanitarian crisis that is playing out in Gaza. Blinken has said that this underscores 
 
 the need for an immediate ceasefire that they are trying to reach. And he said in the meantime, Israel must do more to get more aid into Gaza to the 
 
 people who need it. 
 
He said they must open additional access points to allow aid in. There is no substitute for these road crossings is what he has said. Now all of this 
 
 is on the table for his discussions in Cairo today. He met earlier today with President Sisi he met with the Foreign Minister Shoukry he is slated 
 
 to meet with Egypt's Intel chief who has been involved in the hostage negotiations. 
 
And then later today, he will sit down with a number of representatives from the Arab World as well as the Palestinian Authority to discuss all of 
 
 these issues as well as the next steps the way forward in Gaza. What governance will look like when the war finally does come to an end, Bianca?
 
NOBILO: Jennifer Hansler in Washington and our Nada Bashir in London thank you both so much. The Dominican Republic says it has helped nearly 300 
 
 people leave neighboring Haiti to get away from worsening gang violence there. 
 
The evacuees include personnel from the EU, the UN, the IMF, and the World Bank and the Canadian and Cuban Embassies. The Dominican Republic is also 
 
 working with the U.S. to help get Americans out. On Wednesday, the U.S. chartered a helicopter to take about 15 of them from the Haitian Capital 
 
 Port-au-Prince to Santo Domingo. 
 
The U.S. State Department says it's reviewing the possibility now of more evacuations in the coming days. CNN's Larry Madowo middleware joins us now 
 
 from Nairobi in Kenya.
 
Larry, our viewers will probably remember that this crisis reaching boiling point was in some part precipitated by Ariel Henry's trip to Kenya where he 
 
 agreed on a force that Kenya was going to support will lead of policemen going to Haiti to help keep order there. That's when everything erupted. 
 
 And gangs tried to seize control and broke into the prisons. What is the fate of that deal now?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right. I think everything sort of fell apart as soon as Ariel Henry signed this reciprocal arrangement with 
 
 Kenya and he never made it back to Haiti. He was forced to resign because the gangs to go to Port-au-Prince in the airport.
 
And that's why it was so important for him to be here and try and find this deal to send thousand police officers to partner the Haitian National 
 
 Police to beat back the gangs and restore order there. Kenya made this offer back in July, but it has been a while to get it approved at the UN 
 
 Security Council get the funding from the United States and get the boots on the ground. 
 
It might be a little longer it remains on hold right now because Kenya is waiting for that new administration in Haiti so that they can send a 
 
 reconnaissance team and then they can put the boots on the ground. President William Ruto has said that Kenya will not abandon Haiti in its 
 
 time of need, and it will remain actively involved. But here at home, there is significant resistance.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MADOWO (voice over): Kenyan President William Ruto marching ahead with the plan to send 1000 police officers to Haiti, despite strong opposition to 
 
 the deployment at home. Elite units of the Kenya police are expected to lead the UN backed multinational force to crush Haiti's gangs and restore 
 
 order once a viable government is in place. Opposition lawmakers like Edwin Sifuna tried to block it.
 
EDWIN SIFUNA, NAIROBI SENATOR: Our police officers are going to harm's way in Haiti. 
 
 This is not a situation that our regular police officers are used to. They've never encountered something like that. That training does not 
 
 extend to -- you know operations in fields of war. 
 
MADOWO (voice over): Kenyan police have been involved in peacekeeping missions for the past 35 years, including in Cambodia the Former 
 
 Yugoslavia, Kosovo, Croatia, East Timor and Sierra Leon. Kenya currently has police serving in Somalia, South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of 
 
 Congo, according to a parliamentary report.
 
CHARLES OWINO, FORMER KENYA POLICE SPOKESPERSON: In all those missions, Kenya has not lost a single police officer on any combat.
 
MADOWO (voice over): They're ready for Haiti. This senior policeman believes.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
OWINO: Kenya has well trained paramilitary officers from the general side this year. They have well trained officers from administration police 
 
 special operations group these are officers who have both local and international training some of the best institutions in Israel in U.S.
 
MADOWO (voice over): Haiti would be the most challenging deployment yet for Kenyan police with criminal gangs and militias controlling the capital 
 
 Port-au-Prince and holding the nation hostage.
 
WILLIAM RUTO, KENYAN PRESIDENT: It is a historic duty because peace in Haiti is good for peace in the world as a whole.
 
MADOWO (voice over): President Ruto should push for a well-armed military continue to take over, says their security analyst.
 
FRANCIS MAINA, SECURITY ANALYST: Our police officers cannot and can never be able to contain the threat of the criminality in Haiti. You need to send 
 
 thousands of military personnel to come and --
 
MADOWO (voice over): The Kenyan Parliament approved the planned police deployment to Haiti after acrimonious debate in November.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When Haiti is not safe. We are not safe.
 
OPLYO WANDAYI, OPPOSITION MP: You cannot use our police women and men as guinea pigs at the altar of ransacking (ph).
 
MADOWO: Civil society and opposition groups here in Kenya maintain that President Ruto's plan to send 1000 police officers to Haiti remains illegal 
 
 and unconstitutional even after his government signed a reciprocal arrangement with the former prime minister of Haiti. 
 
MADOWO (voice over): The unelected Ariel Henry witnessed the signing of the legal requirement in Nairobi, but he never made it back to Haiti and 
 
 resigned a few days later. 
 
SIFUNA: That agreement does not hold any water because you signed an agreement with an entity that does not have the mandate to call themselves 
 
 government. Some of us think that it is because of the monetary incentive.
 
MADOWO: So you think President Ruto is doing this for the money?
 
SIFUNA: Absolutely. 
 
MADOWO (voice over): Kenya says the police are in the pre deployment phase as it awaits the new Haitian administration.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MADOWO (on camera): So when will the Kenyan police actually deploy to Haiti? The short answer is it's not clear depends on when there'll be a new 
 
 administration that obviously it's difficult to predict. That the criticism here is that this needs a military force, not the police that works in 
 
 peacekeeping missions before but they were under UN arrangement. 
 
This will be the first time Kenya would be leading such a mission and against gangs that they don't have experience with. In fact, one lawmaker a 
 
 former presidential candidate a -- who challenged this successful in court before says if President Ruto goes ahead with it, he will go back in court 
 
 and he thinks he will win because this is just not something that the Kenyan police should be getting involved in and he says they're going on a 
 
 suicide mission. If they go they will come back and body bags Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Thank you, Larry Madowo for us in Nairobi. The deadline is fast approaching for Donald Trump to post bond in his civil fraud case in New 
 
 York. If he can't come up with $464 million by Monday nor get a delay granted from an appeals court the presumptive Republican presidential 
 
 nominee risk forfeiting some of his prized real estate properties, including Trump Tower, Trump's lawyers argue it's impossible for him to 
 
 secure a bond after he was turned down by 30 insurance companies. 
 
Katelyn Polantz is following developments for us from Washington. Katelyn, what have you been hearing about Trump's state of mind as this deadline 
 
 approaches?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, I've been hearing that something's got to give because there is a large amount of 
 
 money that he's going to have to find somehow, if he wants to hold off the New York Attorney General from collecting on their massive win in this 
 
 civil fraud case against him in his businesses. 
 
So the New York Attorney General come Monday, they could enforce or tried to begin enforcing that judgment of $464 million against Trump. If nothing 
 
 comes through for him, they would be the winner of that lawsuit. And they would be able to go and file liens on his properties in the U.S. to try and 
 
 collect that amount of money from his assets, all of the things that he has.
 
But Trump has a couple more days. And there are things that he could be doing. He's already tried 30, insurance underwriters to float him a bond. 
 
 So he could tell the court yes, I have this money. Those underwriters are unwilling to give him a loan of that size or underwrite him for that 
 
 amount, because he doesn't have that much cash. 
 
It's a half billion dollars. And they require him to put up something that would be like cash or stock, not real estate, which is the assets he has. 
 
 On top of that he's asking the appeals court for help. He wants the appeals court to reduce the amount that he would have to put up to continue 
 
 appealing this judgment that the New York State has won. 
 
That is going to be a question in the coming days. What will the appeals court do? Will they give Trump more time to delay things? But there are 
 
 lots of options here that gets very complicated very quickly. And the New York Attorney General they are digging in their filings to the appeals 
 
 court they want to tell the courts more about what they know about Donald Trump and the amount of money he has. The amount of property he has.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
What they think should happen. And they're saying, just yesterday in a filing that there's no evidence that Trump has put up about him what he 
 
 actually has? What his assets are? What his cash is? What his real estate is? That they would be able to collect on or that he would be able to post 
 
 so lots to look forward to in the coming hours and days.
 
NOBILO: So much for all political enthusiasts such as yourself, Katelyn. I wonder if this is having a political impact on the perception of Trump 
 
 finally cultivated one on his behalf about being such a powerful and successful businessman. 
 
Now, obviously, this bond is an astonishing amount of money, but the public spectacle of scrambling to try and be able to pay it. Is that likely to 
 
 dent that reputation in the eyes of his supporters at all?
 
POLANTZ: I mean it could. Trump has put himself out there in American politics as a very successful businessman as a person who can help people 
 
 because he is so rich. Now this is an issue for him in that it cuts into this specter of him being a successful businessman. And it may impact him 
 
 further if the New York Attorney Generals starts locking down and seizing possession of these properties.
 
Now, all of these cases against Donald Trump, not just civil cases, lawsuits, but also criminal cases for cutting into different aspects of his 
 
 political personalities, characteristics there's Trump, the businessman, Trump, the President, and Trump, the person leading the country, for 
 
 national security reasons, all of these different things are being attacked in the court system and very legitimately as evidenced by the judgments and 
 
 the wins that the attorney general in New York has had so far, in this case. 
 
NOBILO: Katelyn Polantz fantastic reporting, as always great to speak to you. Thanks. I want to get to some breaking news now out of Washington; CNN 
 
 is learning the U.S. Justice Department will sue Apple in a blockbuster antitrust suit today. The long anticipated lawsuit comes after years of 
 
 allegations by critics that Apple has harmed competition with restrictive app store terms, high fees, and its walled garden technology ecosystem. 
 
We're going to have more on this in just a few minutes time right here on "Connect the World". Still to come, up to three people are under 
 
 investigation over reports an attempt was made to access the Princess of Wales' private medical records according to the media in Britain, the 
 
 latest on that straight ahead with Anna Stewart. And why the Los Angeles Dodgers fired the interpreter for one of their superstar players just as 
 
 the season gets underway?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Welcome back. I want to get right back to the breaking news out of Washington the U.S. Justice Department suing Apple in a blockbuster 
 
 antitrust suit today. Brian Fung has been looking into this for us.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Brian, was this anticipated to happen today? What more information can you give us about what's going on?
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: Yeah, this was a very long anticipated case. Many years in the running comes after years of allegations by app 
 
 developers and consumers that Apple behaves anti-competitively with its walled garden ecosystem, it the fees that it charges through in app 
 
 purchases, and many of its app store terms that critics say restricts them from being able to market their services in the way that they would like 
 
 and ultimately results in harms to competition and higher prices for users and consumers. 
 
You know, the specifics of this lawsuit still are not yet clear. We're going to be hearing more about this sued late later today after it's filed. 
 
 But again, this is a very large and blockbuster suit. Apple is really the only U.S. tech giant that's yet to be sued. 
 
That was since a House investigation found in 2020 that Apple, Google, Meta, and Amazon hold monopoly power. So this is a really big deal a big 
 
 moment for the Biden Administration, as it tries to clamp down on tech giants that they say are behaving anti-competitively.
 
NOBILO: Brian Fung thanks so much for joining us. A Major League scandal is brewing on baseball's opening week. The Los Angeles Dodgers have fired the 
 
 interpreter for their star player Shohei Ohtani the team has now confirmed. Earlier "The Los Angeles Times" reported the interpreter was accused of 
 
 massive theft. 
 
Ohtani's legal team says the translator stole millions of dollars and place bets with a bookmaker. The Dodgers beat the San Diego Padres in Wednesday's 
 
 MLB season opener in Seoul, South Korea and the interpreter was there with a tiny at the time. We'll have more on that coming up. 
 
British media are reporting three people are under investigation at a hospital in London for allegedly trying to access the Princess of Wales his 
 
 medical records back in January. Princess Kate spent two weeks in the London Clinic after undergoing abdominal surgery. 
 
The UK watchdog for data protection says it has received a report about a breach of confidentiality and is looking into it. CNN's Anna Stewart has 
 
 more details from London. Anna what is the latest on all of this? And if it's true, what sort of consequences would there be?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, we know that there's been so much speculation so many rumors about the Princess of Wales her condition where 
 
 she is or the photo-shopping as well. But this of course took things to a totally different level. Clearly a line has been crossed if this data 
 
 breach really happened and it is being investigated. 
 
And that's incredibly serious. It's actually illegal and it could even be considered a criminal offence. So it's being taken very seriously by 
 
 authorities by the ICO which is the data regulator. As you say, they have received that report. We believe three individuals staff workers at the 
 
 London Clinic are now being investigated at this stage. 
 
And depending on what happens that investigation, we could see individuals going to court and potentially even being prosecuted. So that's the latest 
 
 on the data breach. Meanwhile, Bianca the rest of the Royal Family are going about business. Queen Camilla currently in Northern Ireland, she 
 
 visited several businesses today. According to the Press Association, she said the King is doing well. 
 
And actually, the King has been busy too. He actually received an audience two new high commissioners for Singapore and Tanzania. So working from home 
 
 but still keeping busy.
 
NOBILO: Anna you have followed the Royals very closely for some years now. What's your assessment of the impact of this mystery around Princess Kate 
 
 and her health on the Royal Family itself? The trust, admiration sympathy, do you think it's going to have a meaningful lasting impact?
 
STEWART: That's a very interesting question. And you have to always consider when we have these almost mini crises of confidence with the Royal 
 
 Family how lasting the damage might be. Now, of course, there is huge interest in Princess of Wales in all of the Royal Family really, and it 
 
 really has been very evident, with the Princess of Wales being missing, unable to perform duties because she's recovering from surgery. 
 
The question is where the line is with the public? What do they deserve to know and what do they not deserve to know? Clearly, they don't deserve to 
 
 have the private medical information of anyone including the Princess of Wales. However, this issue over the photo-shopping of photographs given to 
 
 the press given to the public that raises an issue of trust and it's certainly exacerbated I think that never ending hunger from the public for 
 
 more information.
 
So I think how the Royal Family deals with us going forwards how much information they give, and how transparent they can be, will really impact 
 
 how lasting the damage is from that particular debacle on what happens next?
 
NOBILO: Anna Stewart thank you so much as ever for your reporting and for finding my questions interesting.
 
STEWART: Always.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
NOBILO: The U.S. has finalized new regulations on tailpipes for passenger cars and trucks and a significant win for President Joe Biden's climate 
 
 agenda. It will push carmakers and US consumers toward electric vehicles and hybrid cars. But the victory required some compromise. The rules will 
 
 be phased in more slowly than planned and automakers will have more options for compliance. Here's how the head of the Environmental Protection Agency 
 
 explains it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL S. REGAN, ADMINISTRATOR, U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY: This technology neutral and performance based standard gives the auto industry 
 
 the flexibility to choose the combination of pollution control technologies best suited for their customers. Let me be clear, whether its battery 
 
 electric plug in hybrid, advanced hybrid or cleaner gasoline vehicles. We understand that consumer choice is paramount.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOBILO: Labor unions are concerned with how the regulations will affect auto workers? And car companies say there are serious challenges with 
 
 affordability and supply chain issues. Still a Former EPA Official calls the new rules the single most important climate regulation in the history 
 
 of the country. 
 
Just ahead on "Connect the World" it's your job safe from Ai? The White House says it might not be. Plus safety issues at Boeing aren't just a 
 
 headache for the playmaker. One airline says they could drive fares up as well stay with us for the details.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Here's a look at the opening bell on Wall Street. Not you're usual it is being run by the mascot of Reddit to mark the company's IPO and first 
 
 day of trading. It's a major milestone for the nearly 20 year old company, something that Reddit has actually been preparing for since at least 2021. 
 
We're getting a wave double wave. So back in 2021 we've got Reddit actually hired its first chief financial officer as part of these preparations. This 
 
 is also marking the first a social media company to go public in years and so this performance could be -- let's listen in.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
I think we need more mascots on television. There you go, looking very enthusiastic there. Now, there's been plenty of talk recently about 
 
 artificial intelligence and its potential threat to jobs around the world. And now the White House is adding its own report shared first with CNN.
 
It says at least 10 percent of the U.S. workforce is facing the highest risk of seeing their jobs wiped out by AI. The study is billed as the most 
 
 in depth analysis ever done on AI and jobs by federal efficient officials. CNN's Matt Egan is tracking this for us and joins us now. Matt, can you 
 
 give us the top lines from this report, because it's a very significant one.
 
MATT EGAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Bianca it is very significant. Now, I don't know how much you've used some of these AI tools. But they can do pretty 
 
 amazing things, right? Stuffs that we thought only humans can do. They can write reports and song lyrics. They can generate movie quality videos. They 
 
 can even write news articles, like the one I've wrote today on this topic. 
 
So you know, its awe inspiring, but from the perspective of an employee, it's also kind of scary. And so this report shows that White House 
 
 officials, they are thinking deeply about what AI means for the U.S., and really the global workforce? And they found that 20 percent of U.S. workers 
 
 are in jobs that have high exposure to an AI. 
 
Those are the people who are going to be most impacted either positively, because it's going to make them more efficient or negatively, because it 
 
 could actually replace them. Then they drill down a little bit further. And they said well, which of those workers have the most complex jobs because 
 
 the thinking is, the more complex the job, the harder it is for a robot to replace you. 
 
And they found that 10 percent of U.S. workers are in those high exposure AI positions, but also have low complexity. Those are the ones who are 
 
 really most vulnerable here. And I talked to Jared Bernstein from the White House, and he rejected the notion that all of those jobs are going to go 
 
 away because of AI. 
 
He said that that's just not the way technology not the way automation works. The White House, they pointed out that we still have humans flying 
 
 airplanes, even though autopilot has been around for more than a century now. Still, though Bianca, it's easy to see how some of those high risk 
 
 jobs, they could be negatively disrupted by AI?
 
NOBILO: But why is it expected that women would be more severely affected by that displacement resulting from AI?
 
EGAN: Yeah, that's a good question. They did find some interesting demographic breakdowns. And one of them is that men and women are basically 
 
 both exposed to positions that are vulnerable to AI. But they found that women are slightly more exposed to positions that are less complex. 
 
Now, this is just sort of an initial preliminary finding. We should note that there's a lot going on here, AI is moving very quickly. They also 
 
 found some interesting demographic breakdowns around education, that people who have less education, again, are more vulnerable to AI. And same thing 
 
 around income that some of those lower income brackets are more vulnerable here.
 
And so that's why the researchers they had an interesting finding, saying that AI could quote exacerbate income inequality, if it substitutes for 
 
 employment in lower wage jobs and complements higher wage jobs. And that warning is not really coming out of left field.
 
We've heard a similar word of caution from the IMF, which urged policymakers really around the world to act now and prevent inequality from 
 
 getting worse and perhaps fueling social tensions. 
 
Jared Bernstein, the White House Economist, he told me that the Biden Administration is not going to let that happen, that they're going to do 
 
 whatever they can to make sure that AI is really complementing workers and it's not replacing them. 
 
But again, this is all moving so fast and no one really knows exactly how it's going to play out right. Not the Federal Reserve. Not the White House. 
 
 Not even ChatGPT knows what's going to happen next year.
 
NOBILO: Matt Egan fascinating discussion. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
EGAN: Thank you. 
 
NOBILO: Still to come, ticking off the bucket list of a lifetime Sven Goran Eriksson tells Amanda Davies all about the wish that is coming true.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
NOBILO: Boeing is warning of a massive first quarter loss after a slew of recent safety issues like the door plug that blew off a 737 Max9 jet just 
 
 after taking off from Portland, Oregon in January, leaving a gaping hole as you can see it in the side of the aircraft. 
 
Meanwhile, the CEO of Ryanair says the situation at Boeing is improving but he warned of higher air fares on the horizon. I want to bring in CNN 
 
 Business Editor-at-Large Richard Quest he joins us from Brussels. Always great to see you interviewing airline CEOs Richard, you genuinely never 
 
 look happier And actually for nervous fliers, like myself This interview that you did with Michael O'Leary was quite reassuring after all of these 
 
 safety issues.
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN EDITOR-AT-LARGE: The relationship you're right between airlines and Boeing is a difficult one. And here in Brussels where they 
 
 were having the airlines for Europe. It's an interesting event because it brings the entire airline CEOs together. And they all have a gripe in a way 
 
 with the way Boeing is delaying the delivery of aircraft and with the quality control productions.
 
But perhaps none more so than Michael O'Leary, who has an all-Boeing fleet of 737 and G's and Maxes. He's got more than 400 on order. Remember, 
 
 Ryanair is Europe's largest single carrier, and he gave me an idea of some of the production problems that they had found at Ryanair.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL O'LEARY, CEO, RYANAIR: In 2022, and 2023 we were finding little things like spanners under floorboards. In some cases, seat handles missing 
 
 things like that. That's shows I think a lack of attention to detail quality issues in Boeing were indeed dialogue with Dave Calhoun, Brian 
 
 West, the CFO, I have confidence in those guys. I think they're getting their arms around it. I think the situation Boeing is improving. But there 
 
 is no doubt that summer we're facing delivery delays.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: And the interesting thing is those delivery delays Bianca, they are going to have knock on effects. Ryanair believes that European airfares 
 
 could be five to 10 percent, higher, simple law of supply and demand. Everybody hear why everybody wants to travel. There are only so many planes 
 
 and so many seats available, therefore prices will go up.
 
NOBILO: Richard, in the rest of your interview with the Ryanair CEO, I found what he was saying about the safety checks at the airlines do 
 
 themselves quite reassuring. Are we getting any better understanding of what has led to these production issues of Boeing? Whether the larger scale 
 
 more dangerous ones or like what he was just referring to there, finding parts in places that they shouldn't be in an aircraft that's been sold to 
 
 an airline?
 
QUEST: Yeah, the issue is lack of care and lack of following procedures breaking their own rules, which is why in Boeing statement to us, they 
 
 said, you know, we're going to get this right. We're going to keep looking and we're going to keep pushing forward. 
 
But it's not only Boeing, Airbus through the A320 and through the airline Engine Manufacturer, Pratt and Whitney had a whole raft of problems of 
 
 their own. For instance, Carsten Spohr of Lufthansa told me he has 30 odd aircraft sitting on the ground because of problems with the engines. 
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
We know that Wizz Air in Europe has 20 to 30 planes sitting on the ground because Pratt and Whitney engines simply keep breaking down. 
 
Now when you put all of this together, the two major manufacturers, both having in some shape or form, delays in delivery of new aircraft problems 
 
 with existing, you start to see an industry that is just about to go to its peak performance of the summer. And that's going to be delays. It's going 
 
 to be more inconvenience, and I'm guessing a few very disgruntled passengers.
 
NOBILO: Richard Quest, thank you very much for joining us from Brussels. Sven Goran Eriksson achieved worldwide fame as Manager of the England 
 
 Football Team in charge of a squad that was dubbed the golden generation. 
 
The recent announcement that he has terminal cancer has shocked friends and fans. But he says he is looking forward to one more challenge something 
 
 that has been on his bucket list. Erickson spoke to our Amanda Davies about what's coming up and Amanda tell us what he had to say.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Yes fan incredibly stoic when I spoke to him Bianca I've been fortunate enough to know him and spend a lot 
 
 of time with him over the last 25 years or so. And he said he is not going to sit in a corner and waste whatever time he has left but he has won 
 
 league titles. 
 
He's won European titles around Europe in a 40 year career as a manager. There is one job he hasn't ever had the chance to do and that is to become 
 
 Manager of Liverpool and since his diagnosis he has been invited to Anfield. He's gearing up to take to the dugout the touch line with them on 
 
 this Saturday.
 
You're looking after a Liverpool Legends Team against I actually got very emotional talking about when he gets the chance to hear you'll never walk 
 
 alone as he walks out onto the pitch. And we've got plenty coming from him in just a couple of minutes on our "World Sport" well worth listening to 
 
 Bianca
 
NOBILO: Brilliant. Thank you so much, Amanda. And like she said do stay with CNN because Amanda is back with "World Sport" just after this break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END