Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Now: Released Russian Prisoners Arriving In Moscow; Americans Released In Historic Prisoner Swap With Russia; Hamas Leader Killed By Bomb Planted Months Ago; Big Day For U.S. Women Gymnasts At The Olympics. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired August 01, 2024 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: In an area where there were, you know, moms and babies and toddlers, and that is the big get for him in all of this.
 
STEVE HALL, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Yes, I mean, the guy was an assassin. He was a thug. And that's, you know, what Vladimir Putin values. And the reason he values that, there's two reasons, actually. The first is because, of course, they're cut from the same cloth. You know, Putin is a former intelligence officer himself. And so it's important for him to bring, you know, one of his own home. 
 
But it's also a really important message to future assassins and future Russian assassination and liquidation teams. And that is go off, do what it is that I tell you to do in a foreign country, which they've been doing quite frequently over the past couple of years.
 
And if you get caught and even if you're sentenced by a legitimate judicial process, don't worry about it. We will be able to get you out. Just hang tough.
 
So this is this is a really chilling reminder of what we're dealing with when we're talking about Russia these days. Truly a pariah state involved in all sorts of violations, not only of international law, but just moral violations. And this is the type of thing that Putin values.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: And we're watching live images as Vladimir Putin is saluting those who are getting off of this plane. These detainees that were being held in countries around the world returning to Russia. 
 
Alex, I want to go back to you because Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser, had to answer questions about criticism over this deal to the point that critics have argued it boosts the idea that hostile governments around the world, whether in Iran or Russia or Venezuela, can abduct Americans and essentially hold them hostage.
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Boris, before I answer that, let me just note an interesting thing right there. You can see two children. We know that among the 24 released today, there are in addition two children. We don't know. I don't think who's who their parents are.
 
But a number of the Russian spies who are being released today from countries like Slovenia, Norway and Poland, they were working as what we call illegals. They had some kind of cover, whether it was as a journalist or some other kind of official -- non-official, of course, very non-official cover. And oftentimes posing as someone from a different country.
 
So those children right there with Vladimir Putin with bouquets of flowers in their arms, we believe that they are the children of at least two of the spies, I believe, who are who are coming home to Russia today. 
 
Now, to your question, yes, there is -- there's all kinds of debate about whether Russia is collecting hostages in order to be able to make trades like this, to get people like Krasikov out, to get people like Viktor Bout, the so-called merchant of death, who was who was traded for WNBA star Brittany Griner a couple of years ago. And when Griner was traded for Bout, there was a lot of resistance within the Biden administration, specifically from the Department of Justice, who saw this as a way of incentivizing the kidnapping of people like Paul Whelan -- of Evan Gershkovich.
 
Now, we did hear Jake Sullivan push back against that today. He actually said that he doesn't believe there is any real evidence to suggest that based on an analysis that he says was carried out by Ambassador Roger Carstens, who is the U.S. special envoy for hostage affairs, who does all of this negotiating around the world. 
 
So when asked how they can prevent, you know, this kind of thing from taking place in the future, for Americans getting picked up in the future and then eventually having to be traded, they answered this is why Americans need to follow our suggestions. And right now, of course, the biggest suggestion for Russia is simply don't go there. That is something that is that is told to American civilians, to American businesspeople and to us as journalists as well. It's really drilled into us that you are in dangerous territory if you are in Russia.
 
I believe I heard our Steve Hall say that earlier today that it is a terrible idea to go there so that you don't end up in a situation like this.
 
KEILAR: Yes, and Alex, talk a little bit about the domestic politics at play. I mean, that's it -- that's the truth in Russia as well as in the U.S. And they're kind of interacting in a way. You've heard former President Trump say that he's the one, obviously, who can have better relations with a Putin. And yet this exchange is happening under the Biden administration, as they say, relationships matter.
 
It was really our relationship with Germany that helped make this happen.
 
MARQUARDT: Well, I think we're seeing an extraordinary scene play out right here. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
I mean, this is one, you know, this is playing out on Russian state TV. Vladimir Putin here taking the credit for bringing these people home. You know, the spies that have been brought home today are certainly the people that he this is going to hold up as stellar Russian citizens. I wouldn't be surprised if they went on to receive awards from the Kremlin for their service. 
 
Now, a lot of them were behind the scenes and serving undercover. And then Vadim Krasikov, of course, that assassin who was arrested and sentenced to life in Germany.
 
So Putin here through this scene that's playing out, certainly playing using this for his political domestic benefit. But we've been having this discussion about, you know, Donald Trump talking a big game, saying things like, well, only I can get him to release these prisoners, taking a lot of credit for U.S. prisoners who have been released, certainly during his time, but also laying the groundwork, he believed. And there is a belief that the Russians would like to see Donald Trump back in office in the fall.
 
So then the question becomes, well, why are they giving this gift to to Biden right now? Because the U.S. is certainly going to take advantage of this as well and play this up as well. And, you know, the thinking goes that perhaps Putin is saying to Trump, well, don't you know, don't think so fast, and was willing to broker this deal to get Krasikov home.
 
And we're going to see a similar scene play out later today at Andrews Air Force Base here -- Joint Base Andrews near Washington, D.C. when the Americans come home. The president is going to be there. Some of his top officials from the Biden administration, I understand the CIA director, is going to be there as well. 
 
So this is this is a historic day. It's a very important day, but it is taking place, as you say, against these respective political backdrops. Putin there trying to play this up for his domestic audience. 
 
But also we in the United States are obviously in the middle of a campaign season. This is a very important political win for President Biden as well.
 
KEILAR: Yes, and Steve, can you just speak a little bit about we've seen a lot of exchanges. This one is huge.
 
But can you also speak a little bit about your observations on CIA director Bill Burns's role in this? Because it really was pretty clutch in as many figures played a role in this. But his was certainly essential.
 
HALL: Yes, we've seen this over the years, Brianna. The Russians have a strong preference with stuff that is this sensitive, stuff that they really don't want leaked or out in the press in any way, shape or form to do an intelligence service to intelligence service type of relationship, to use that as the primary vector for these things. And this is, of course, one of the reasons why CIA has people not only in Moscow, but also all over the world, because there is this sense, especially among it's interesting how it is specifically true amongst dictators and people who come from an intelligence background.
 
They think, OK, let's use the CIA channel. Let's use these super secret as they see it. Very clandestine, very, you know, protected channels. And that's the best way to do it. The Russians demand that in these types of things. They certainly have in the past.
 
It doesn't surprise me that they've that they've done that here. Of course, from our perspective, CIA is simply going with the national security, you know, team in Washington and doing what they are told. The director CIA is part of that team, but they're not policymakers.
 
They simply act as the conduit. And that's the way the Russians like it, because of the secrecy and keeping it quiet.
 
SANCHEZ: We want to bring it into the conversation. CNN analyst and historian Julian Zelizer. Julian, just from a historical perspective, I mean, we haven't seen something of this scale since the Cold War. Put it in the context for us.
 
JULIAN ZELIZER, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Sure. During the Cold War, there were several moments when you had exchanges such as these, whether it was a U.S. pilot, Gary Powers in 1962, a journalist, Nicholas Daniloff in 1986. And these are always important markers. They are usually a measure of success for the administration in diplomacy. 
 
And here we are again. Obviously, we had the exchange with Griner, too. And I think this will be part of what President Biden will be collecting for his legacy and a show of what diplomacy still has to offer.
 
KEILAR: Julian, a characteristic of Russia is they still retain, of course, Americans. They still have bargaining chips. And it would be strange for Vladimir Putin, obviously, to give all of those up.
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
ZELIZER: Correct. And it will continue to generate criticism that when you do this, you create incentives for more of this kind of behavior. That's traditionally the criticism.
 
And Putin is very strategic and he's pretty ruthless. And he will understand that. But that doesn't diminish the importance of exchanging and releasing the prisoners who are now going to be on their way home.
 
SANCHEZ: It was clear from his remarks at the White House, Julian, that President Biden was touting his effort to reinvigorate relationships that this White House has said deteriorated between the United States and its partners during the Trump administration. He specifically referenced Germany, Poland, Slovenia. How do you see this exchange in that context?
 
ZELIZER: I think it's quite important. From the start, President Biden has been committed to international alliances as part of what makes the United States strong, not weak. And these were alliances that under the previous administration had been strained and often criticized.
 
And so these are tangible measures of where these kinds of alliances can produce something quite important. And this is not a military operation. This is a diplomatic victory.
 
So I think Biden will point to this, as will his supporters and supporters of international alliances, as proof that the legacy of the Cold War, the kind of international connections that the United States forged still are very important in 2024.
 
SANCHEZ: Julian Zelizer, Josh Rogin, Steve Hall, Alex Marquardt, appreciate the perspective. Thanks so much for being with us. 
 
Still ahead, stunning new details about the killing of the political leader of Hamas and how the seeds of that operation were actually planted months ago while the international community urges calm, hoping to avoid a regional war.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:46:25]
 
SANCHEZ: Some astonishing details to share with you. The Hamas political leader assassinated yesterday in Tehran was killed by a bomb that was planted months ago in a guest house. This is what sources are sharing with CNN.
 
The Iranian government and Hamas are promising vengeance against Israel, though Israel has not yet commented. They've not acknowledged any involvement in what happened.
 
KEILAR: Israel did confirm killing a different Hamas leader three weeks ago in an airstrike on Gaza. That attack killed at least 90 Palestinians. It is the third high-profile Iran-backed militant leader to be killed recently.
 
CNN's Jeremy Diamond is live for us in Israel. Jeremy, what more are we learning about the bomb that was planted well ahead of time in Tehran?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brianna, this is just a remarkable operation that was carried out. And stunning new details that we are learning about the fact that two months before Ismail Haniyeh was in Tehran, staying at a guest house that he was known to stay at, it appears that a bomb was planted inside that guest house and concealed for the entirety of those two months. And only once it was confirmed that Ismail Haniyeh was in his bedroom in that guest house was that bomb remotely detonated, killing not only him but his bodyguard as well.
 
Now, Hamas and Iran have said that Israel was responsible for this assassination. Israel has neither confirmed nor denied its involvement in this. But I am also told by this source who was briefed on the matter that Israeli officials briefed U.S. officials yesterday about this operation, but they only briefed them after it had happened. U.S. officials are maintaining that they were not informed ahead of time. The secretary of state said as much yesterday as well, which is also interesting. 
 
Now, the guest house in which Ismail Haniyeh was staying in was actually run by and under the protection of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, known as the IRGC. And so this represents a stunning breach of security for them. 
 
We should note, of course, that this assassination adds to all of the tensions that we are seeing in the region, and it may very well be the event that tilts this region into deeper, deeper conflict. And that's partly because it's not the only killing of a major Iranian proxy leader that we are seeing in the region.
 
Hours before this assassination, Israel carried out a strike in Beirut, killing Hezbollah's senior-most military commander. And today as well they have now confirmed that they killed Mohammed Deif in an airstrike nearly three weeks ago in Gaza. 
 
Mohammed Deif is Hamas's or was Hamas's military, top military commander. The leader of its military wing known as the Qassam Brigade. And so all of this together is putting a picture together of not only what Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu described last night as crushing blows that Israel has delivered to its enemies, but also, of course, all of these events putting this region increasingly on edge and increasingly on the brink of an all-out war.
 
SANCHEZ: Jeremy, thank you so much for that reporting. 
 
I just want to point out we got an alert moments ago that a barrage of rockets has been fired from southern Lebanon toward Israel. So far there are no reports of damage or injuries.
 
I do want to note Hezbollah leader Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah actually said in a speech today that Hezbollah would resume its confrontations on the border and that that should not be mistaken for the promised response from Hezbollah to the killing of their deputy commander earlier this week. 
 <br>[15:50:02]
 
A story one of many we're going to keep an eye on. 
 
But right now we've got a chat about all-time great Simone Biles further cementing herself in the record books and in the process of breaking a record that stood in place for more than 70 years. We'll discuss in just moments.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: If you want to wait until primetime tonight to learn the outcome of the U.S. Women's Gymnastics All-Around event, time to turn down the sound or maybe just change the channel. There was some drama in Paris. KEILAR: That's right. Rough moment for Simone Biles on the uneven bars. But then how did it turn out?
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
Hmm. Let's head to Paris, where CNN Sports anchor Coy Wire is following all of the Olympics action for us. All right, Coy, how'd the U.S. women do?
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Brianna, I didn't know we were doing spoiler alerts now. I mean, Simone Biles and what she is calling the redemption tour rolls on.
 
The GOAT capturing an historic gold in the all-around competition. It's the sixth gold of her career, more than any American gymnast ever. Hang that thing in the loop.
 
Simone regaining the all-around title that she won in Rio in 2016. So she does something that nobody else has ever done. She's the first woman to win an individual Olympic gymnastics event twice in non- consecutive games.
 
She's 27 years old now. This is the first ever Olympic final, by the way, where two former all-around champs were battling it out. Along there with her teammate Suni Lee.
 
Suni took the bronze. Rebeca Andrade of Brazil took the silver. But here in Paris, Simone now has two gold medals won, but she's not done.
 
She can win three more after where she was rocking this diamond encrusted GOAT chain. She has five moves named after her because no one else can do them. She's the greatest of all time, and she has the chain to prove it.
 
So competition is super hot here. It's heating up, but temperatures are too. Boris, I'm having a really bad hair day today. You know what I'm talking about. But sorry for the spoiler. If anyone hadn't seen it, must tune in. It's incredible to watch what Simone Biles can do.
 
SANCHEZ: Oh, man. Yes, one of a kind. The GOATs. There's a reason she's the GOAT. Coy Wire, thank you so much for the update.
 
Stay with CNN. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Really a momentous day we are witnessing. Flying right now over the White House a flag honoring hostages and wrongful detainees. An official telling CNN it is actually the first time this flag is being flown at the White House in celebration.
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
The Americans released in a historic prisoner swap, Evan Gershkovich, Paul Whelan and Alsu Kurmasheva are expected to land on U.S. soil this evening. The deal is an enormous relief for their families. Paul Whelan's brother David saying in a statement, quote: It is vital
 
 that he be given agency over his life against something the Kremlin took away for so many years.
 
KEILAR: And also among those freed, Russian-American journalist Alsu Kurmasheva. Tomorrow, by the way, is her daughter Miriam's 13th birthday, which the president acknowledged today at the White House singing Happy birthday.
 
And all these families will be together again like they should have been all again -- all along tonight in the U.S. 
 
"THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.