Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Nikki Haley Vows To Stay In Republican Presidential Race; Boeing Faces Scrutiny After Door Plug Incident; Supreme Court To Issue Opinion On February 8th; No Labels Political Group Considers Third- Party Option; FAA Increases Scrutiny On Boeing's Production; Lawmakers Question Yemen Strike Without Congressional. Aired 2-2:30p ET

Aired January 24, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:52]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Not backing down, Nikki Haley vows to stay in the race for the Republican presidential nomination despite not winning Tuesday's primary. Her opponent's patience is wearing thin. Former President Trump, wants this contest over, and he's not hiding his irritation with Haley. And Boeing on the hill. The company's CEO meets with lawmakers. They want answers about the problems with its jets. Frustration is growing, too, as one airline boss admits he is angry with the company.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Plus, Barbie snubbed. No Oscar nomination for the blockbuster's director or star means a big backlash, with critics asking, didn't they do enough to be nominated? I'm Boris Sanchez, alongside Brianna Keilar in the nation's capital. We're following these major developing stories and many more, all coming in right here to CNN News Central.
 
KEILAR: And we're about to hear from President Biden. He will be addressing the United Auto Workers Union, as he is expected to get their coveted endorsement today. President of the UAW, Shawn Fain, speaking at this event right now, will be bringing it to you as President Biden begins to speak, as he's expected to lay into former President Trump, clearly posturing for his 2020 rematch after Trump's New Hampshire primary win last night. It was a commanding victory for the former president over his last remaining Republican opponent, Nikki Haley, but not commanding enough to get Haley to drop out. 
 
She is vowing to fight on ahead of next month's primary in her home state of South Carolina. And Haley's refusal to quit, well, it has Trump fuming. CNN's Kristen Holmes is tracking all of this for us. Kristen, there's a growing chorus among the GOP's upper ranks. Perhaps that is not surprising, pressuring Haley to drop out. 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, that's right. I mean, look, Donald Trump should be excited right now. He should be happy. He won by a large margin. His team was actually setting expectations at single digits. It ended up being double digits in Iowa. I mean, in New Hampshire, excuse me. We also know he won by a landslide in Iowa. Now he's having people line up behind him, yet he is still remaining angry at Haley for staying in the race. Now, one of the interesting people who has come out asking to unite the party behind Donald Trump is somebody who usually remains neutral, the head of the Republican National Committee. This is what the chairwoman had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RONNA MCDANIEL, RNC CHAIR: I'm looking at the math and the path going forward, and I don't see it for Nikki Haley. I think she's run a great campaign, but I do think there is a message that's coming out from the voters, which is very clear. We need to unite around our eventual nominee, which is going to be Donald Trump. 
 
UNKNOWN: You're telling Nikki Haley that she needs to get out? 
 
MCDANIEL: I just  don't see the path in the math. I hope she reflects tonight. I think it's time to move forward.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: That certainly did not sound very neutral, but we also know that Ronna McDaniel is a big Trump ally. The other person who is not lining up behind Donald Trump, actually saying that they probably won't endorse him in the future, is Maine Senator Susan Collins. She spoke to our colleague and said essentially, she's not going to endorse him. She doesn't see that happening in the future, and that she was happy that Nikki Haley was staying in the race, saying that I think that more people see of her. I think she's going to be more impressed they will be. Now, it's not that surprising, given that she voted for Trump's impeachment after the January 6th insurrection, but just an example of how not everybody is getting in line, Brianna.
 
KEILAR: What does this approach to the South Carolina have in store for Trump, Kristen?
 
HOLMES: Well, what we've been seeing really is the team trying to embarrass Haley in her home state, and they did that actually in New Hampshire. They announced South Carolina Senator Tim Scott would be endorsing Trump before they got to South Carolina, before they got to New Hampshire, they have him campaigning alongside Donald Trump. They also had the governor of South Carolina, who worked alongside Nikki Haley, McMaster, campaigning in New Hampshire and will be campaigning in South Carolina for Donald Trump, as well as the delegation, the South Carolina Hill delegation. 
 <br>[14:05:09]
 
This is all an attempt for Donald Trump and his team to paint Haley as unpopular in her own state. Now, Haley did express confidence in the state, but Donald Trump's team feels very good about South Carolina. They believe that, yes, she was governor there, but that the electorate has changed, that it's more pro-Trump. If you look at CNN's polling, it does reflect that. There's about a 30-point spread between Donald Trump and Nikki Haley with her just in the 20s, and she would have to pull off a big win or at least get very close to Donald Trump in that state. So, you are seeing Haley ramp up her advertising, her campaigning there. We have yet to see what Donald Trump is going to do. I've asked about any future ads they're running, any campaign stops that they have coming. Nothing yet.
 
KEILAR: All right. We'll be looking for that. Kristen Holmes, thank you for that report. And new today, the Supreme Court says it. We'll issue an opinion in at least one case on February 8th. That is the same day the justices are expected to hear arguments on whether former President Trump can be disqualified from holding public office. We have CNN's Joan Biskupic, who is tracking this for us. Joan, what can you tell us about which cases we might get rulings on by then?
 
JOAN BISKUPIC, CNN SENIOR SUPREME COURT ANALYST: Sure. February 8th is shaping up to be a banner day in the annals of the Supreme Court. As you say, they're already going to hear several hours of arguments that will go to whether the leading Republican presidential candidate can be kicked off state ballots. But then they've also just announced that they will issue opinions that day, at least one opinion. And I'll mention a couple of cases that are pending, Brianna, but then I have a caveat at the end. Among the major cases that we're awaiting right now, a big Second Amendment test involving a federal law that prohibits anyone who is subject to a domestic violence restraining order from possessing a firearm. Now, this is a case. This is a case that can have consequences for all sorts of Second Amendment challenges to a range of federal laws.
 
And you know the ongoing struggles over gun control at this time of, you know, a lot of firearms massacres. So that is a very closely watched case. Then we also have a case testing a redistricting map in South Carolina that has been challenged as a racial gerrymander. And that involves a U.S. House seat. And then finally, we have the multibillion dollar controversy over the bankruptcy plan for Purdue, Purdue Pharma in which the Sackler family that owned Purdue Pharma, Pharma is going to come up with billions of dollars for victims of the opioid crisis, but in exchange for being immune from liability. Now, I have to say those are among the biggest cases that have been already heard and that are pending right now. But we do tend to get the biggest decisions, the closest fought cases more toward June, which is the end of the session.
 
 It's still notable that the justices who have already broken their usual February recess to schedule these consequential arguments in the Trump case have decided to also make it an opinion day. And all of the public will be able to know what happens because the their ruling will go up immediately online. And then these arguments that are going to be closely watched will be live streamed for all to hear. Brianna.
 
KEILAR: Alright, we looking for that. Joan, thank you for that report. Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: Let's dig into all the day's political headlines and the results from New Hampshire last night with the national director for the centrist no labels political group, former Democratic Congressman Joe Cunningham. Joe, thanks so much for coming on with us. I want to get your thoughts on New Hampshire last night. Is the Republican primary race over?
 
JOE CUNNINGHAM, NATIONAL DIRECTOR; NO LABELS: Well, I mean, it certainly played out last night, according to how the pundits and pollsters were predicting it. And it seems to be going along this trajectory. I mean, it's a very different trend of these presumptive nominees. But that's why no labels has been working to provide Americans with a third option because, you know, two thirds of Americans don't want to see this rematch between Trump and Biden. So we're more focused on getting on the ballot and being be in a position where we offer Americans another vote, another  voice, another choice.
 
SANCHEZ: Yeah. Your party or your group. We won't call it a party. Right. It's been weighing this decision of getting potentially a third-party person in the presidential race. A lot of speculation over who it might be, when it might be announced. Do the results last night bring you any closer to a decision? Do you have a deadline set for that decision?
 
CUNNINGHAM: Look, we've always said we're going to wait until Super Tuesday and we won't wait to find out who these presumptive nominees are. And we're going to listen to America. And if America wants another choice, then we're going to secure the ballot in as many states as we can with a pathway to 50 states and then offer that ballot line to a ticket. A bipartisan ticket. Because, you know, what we're doing is not about what no labels want. This is what the majority of Americans want. And I think for the first time in our modern history, you know, we're faced with two presumptive nominees that most Americans are just not excited about.
 <br>[14:10:19]
 
SANCHEZ: Would you say that if Nikki Haley dropped out, it might expedite the process of your group deciding?
 
CUNNINGHAM: No, we're in control of our own timeline, and those aren't dictated by other people's decisions.
 
SANCHEZ: The group has been, you specifically, have been vocal in your opposition to Donald Trump. There are concerns that any effort toward a third party, a more moderate sort of view of politics, would serve as a spoiler and bring someone that you've been vocal against into the White House and give Donald Trump four years, another four years. How do you weigh whether any effort on behalf of no labels would play spoiler in the general election?
 
CUNNINGHAM: I mean, I categorically reject that argument just because, you know, I serve in Congress, Democrat, lifelong Democrat. I'm from Charleston, South Carolina. You may remember I voted to impeach Donald Trump. The fact is we're simply going to be offering that ballot line to another choice. And, you know, for folks to say it's going to impact the election one way or another, it's like complaining about the food before it's even brought out of the kitchen. We don't know if we're going to offer that ballot line. We don't know who we're going to offer that ballot line. So, you can't one way or another without even knowing what names are going to be on that ballot.
 
SANCHEZ: But if you look at the calculus, and you ultimately determine that it would, in fact, favor President Trump's chances, would you then decide we'll back President Biden instead? CUNNINGHAM: We're not going to do anything to help put President Trump
 
 back in the White House. And here's the most important thing I want to say, because we're so set in this mindset that in this duopoly, you need to get over 50 percent to win the election, right? In a competitive three-way race, and this is important because this is why we have a pathway to victory if we offer this ticket line.
 
 Every single state in our country, with the exception of two states, offer all their electoral votes to the candidate who receives the most number of votes. Meaning, in a competitive three-way race, you know, that lowers the bar from over 50 percent down through the 40s, even into the 30s. Meaning a competitive third party can win with just 34 percent of the vote. We don't have to get over 50 percent of the vote. That's the math that people need to keep in the back of their minds right now.
 
SANCHEZ: I do want to give you an example. You had an opportunity to respond to some criticism out there about your group. As you all know, some donors filed a lawsuit against the group alleging that it had lost its way and betrayed its donors' trust. What's your response to that criticism, and also to folks that may have been considering supporting your group that now are perhaps giving it second thought?
 
CUNNINGHAM: That's just a frivolous lawsuit. It's a frivolous complaint. This is all part of a pattern. Look, there is a contingency. We simply do not want Americans to have another choice. We don't work for them. You know, we've always served the common-sense majority of Americans. Two-thirds of America are not happy with these presumptive nominees and want another choice. And so, no labels. It's a 501 C4 (ph). It's been around for 14 years. It's a bipartisan group that's been trying to bridge this partisan divide. And right now, we're reflecting on what America wants right now, which is another option.
 
SANCHEZ: There is criticism that the group doesn't have to reveal exactly who is donating to it. There is concern about that kind of transparency. What's your response?
 
CUNNINGHAM: We're not a political campaign. And I agree that political campaigns should have to reveal their donors. And if a campaign is launched, that will be up to the campaign, the PAC, or whoever else associated with it to reveal that. But what's important to remember is that we are gaining ballot access. That's what no labels is doing. So, it's different from a campaign. And so, these attacks we've been getting, we're akin to a voter registration of the First Amendment. It's shameful, in my view, that certain groups and people are attacking us for gaining ballot access. This is the United States of America. I'm a lifelong Democrat. Voting rights is something that Democrats have held the mantle on. That's now being undermined by groups that are simply trying to block people from the ballot. Talk to Congressman Dean Phillips. He's experienced it firsthand. We're seeing this play out all across the country.
 
And it's discouraging because everybody should be able to participate in our democracy. The choices should not be limited. And, you know, again, being a Democrat all my life, it's been our job to go out there and make the case on why our candidate or why our party should be chosen, not try to suppress opposition, not trying to remove people from the ballot or keep people off the ballot. All should be welcome, and we should be voting on ideas and policies.
 
SANCHEZ: So, if the group gets ballot access for a certain candidate that then launches the campaign, would it then come forward and reveal its donors?
 
CUNNINGHAM: The campaign and Super PAC would be adhering to the laws and disclosing their donors as required by the FEC.
 
SANCHEZ: Former Congressman Joe Cunningham, got to leave the conversation there. Appreciate you sharing some time with us.
 
CUNNINGHAM: Thanks, Boris.
 <br>[14:15:19]
 
SANCHEZ: Of course. Thanks so much. Still ahead, a growing number of lawmakers are questioning the president's decision to strike Houthi rebels in Yemen, and that includes Senator Tim Kaine. He's going to join us live to discuss security in the Red Sea and across the Middle East. Plus, the CEO of Boeing doing damage control on Capitol Hill after that terrifying Alaska Airlines incident when a piece of the plane ripped off mid-air. What we're learning about troubling findings in many of the same Boeing planes. And, of course, there's no Ken without Barbie. Oscar-nominated actor Ryan Gosling now slamming the nomination snub of the blockbuster movie's lead actress and director. A lot to talk about when we come back on CNN News Central.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Today, NTSB investigators are back at a Boeing production plant in their effort to determine why a door plug blew off a Boeing 737 MAX 9 jet mid-flight earlier this month. The investigators are now trying to build a timeline of the incident. We have CNN aviation correspondent Pete Muntean joining us now on this story. You've been on it from the beginning here. What's the latest on the investigation?
 
 [14:20:09]
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is the first of many visits by the NTSB to Boeing. And remember that the FAA is also doing its own investigation as it ordered this grounding of the 737 MAX 9, which remains in place. Just spoke with the head of the FAA in a one-on-one interview, and he says his inspectors are on-site at Boeing with a focus on quality control. FAA Administrator Mike Whitaker told me the MAX 9 door plug design is a good design, but only when it's properly executed. That's a big caveat. The bolts that hold the door plug on the plane are key. There are four of them. And if they are not installed, then the door can shimmy out of its retaining grooves and shoot off with explosive force, like we saw back on January 5th on Alaska 1282.Here is FAA Administrator Mike Whitaker.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MIKE WHITAKER, FAA ADMINISTRATOR: The design, when it's properly executed, is a sound, safe, airworthy design. Our focus has been on production. So, where we're looking now is quality assurance, quality control at Boeing. We've got inspectors on site overseeing production, examining the actual aircraft coming off the line to ensure everything is where it ought to be.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUNTEAN: The FAA now has a sampling of data from about a quarter of the MAX 9s in the U.S. It's looking at measurements. It's looking at the difference to decide what airlines will need to inspect in order to unground these planes. I also asked the FAA chief if the flying public should be afraid of the 737 MAX 9. And he told me the FAA is not going to let this plane back in the air until they are convinced this issue is taken care of.
 
KEILAR: And Boeing's CEO will be meeting with lawmakers, and they're pretty frustrated.
 
MUNTEAN: Yeah, and some of the meetings are taking place right now. Boeing CEO Dave Calhoun on Capitol Hill right now, as Boeing is announcing this day-long safety stand-down tomorrow. We know he's going to meet with Senator Maria Cantwell today. She is one of the top Democrats who oversees the committee that oversees aviation. And she says that even after these closed-door hearings, she would like to see potentially some hearings and Boeing being held to account in public on this. So, we'll see.
 
KEILAR: Boeing got lucky here that that happened when everyone was seated at the altitude that it happened at. We have to remember that. Pete, thank you so much for following this throughout. Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: Let's discuss this further with Miles O'Brien. He's a CNN aviation analyst, pilot, and scientist. Science correspondent for PBS NewsHour. Miles, thank you so much for joining us. Great to see you. If you were asking questions of these folks over at Boeing, what would you want answered?
 
MILES O'BRIEN, CNN AVIATION ANALYST: I'd like to know about their processes. You know, one of the things that happens in the case of trying to get all these airplanes out the door is as the sub- assemblies come in, they might be put together, in this case, with the door plug in. Right. Right. So, they took that door plug out, made it possible to make it easier to work on the aircraft, took that door plug out, and then didn't really have an official procedure for putting it back in. And as a result, some things were lost. Those kinds of little details are really important in aviation. 
 
In theory, Boris, you should be able to trace a piece of paper to every piece on that airplane, and that paper trail should lead to individuals to what they did or didn't do. And if they did, in fact, take that door plug out unofficially, you don't have that paper. You don't have that paper trail. So things like that are very important in aviation. SANCHEZ: That's some really fascinating perspective. FAA inspectors say that they are now increasing the level of scrutiny of that production process that you're describing. What does it look like when the FAA steps in and does that sort of thing?
 
O'BRIEN: Well, it makes me wonder why we don't have the FAA there more often and in greater numbers. It is a matter of money, and this is an important question for Congress to address. Essentially, the builders of these airliners use their own people to do inspections. Now, clearly, there's a potential conflict of interest there. Now, in the interest of aviation safety, the manufacturers would tell you that it's safe because no one wants to put an unsafe aircraft in the air. But there are subtle ways that things can be overlooked, like bolts that need to be tightened. So should the FAA step up its ongoing inspection campaign and not just be sending the troops in after you've had an incident which could have caused a much greater calamity.
 
SANCHEZ: And, Miles, Boeing obviously not only facing scrutiny from federal inspectors and lawmakers, but its airline partners, too. A lot of money is being lost because these planes are grounded. What do you anticipate the long-term impact of this is going to be for Boeing's business?
 
O'BRIEN: I think it's hard to overstate it when you have the CEO of United Airlines saying, I may not purchase the MAX 10, the next version of the 737. You know, Boeing, Boris, was the gold standard for the world.
 <br>[14:25:09]
 
And subsequent to its merger with McDonnell Douglas in 1997, the corporate culture changed. A lot of subcontracting came into play, a lot of outsourcing, a lot of creation of other locations. Their whole philosophy changed. People would tell you that is the root of the problem here. That there's been a fundamental corporate culture change, and that means change at the top. 
 
SANCHEZ: Really interesting insight. Miles O'Brien, thanks so much for the update. 
 
O'BRIEN: You're welcome, Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Of course. Still ahead, top senators questioning the president's decision to strike Yemen's Houthi rebels without seeking congressional approval first. We're going to speak to one of those senators, Democrat Tim Kaine of Virginia, live when we come back. Sunday. R.C. Superyacht's the final frontier of wealth. Does somebody need a 250-foot yacht? Probably not. Allison Camerata finds out why the ultra-rich go overboard with spending.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)