Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Category 5 Hurricane Beryl Intensifies As It Heads Toward Jamaica; The Supreme Court Rules On Presidential Immunity; France Gears Up For Second Round After Far-Right Tops First; Released Palestinian Prisoners Recount Torture In Israeli Jails; Former Trump Adviser Bannon Serving Four-Month Sentence; Calls for Justice, Accountability after Kenyan Police Kill Protesters; Late Teen to Become Catholic Church's First Millennial Saint; Albania's Butterfly Population at Risk; Ukrainian President Gets Special Invite to Olympics. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired July 02, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:23] 
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome I'm Lynda Kinkade. Ahead on CNN Newsroom. Hurricane barrel strengthens to a Category 5 storm moving a path of destruction as it heads towards Jamaica. 
 
Plus, the U.S. Supreme Court hands down a monumental ruling giving Donald Trump a bigger than expected win. And he is known as "God's Influencer" how a video gaming teenager is set to become the first millennial saint.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with Lynda Kinkade.
 
KINKADE: Hurricane Beryl has strengthened into a Category five storm and is carrying 260 kilometer per hour winds across the Caribbean headed towards Jamaica. The U.S. National Hurricane Center calls it potentially catastrophic and says it's expected to bring life threatening winds and storm surges to Jamaica from Wednesday. 
 
The storm made landfall across the Windward Islands Monday knocking out power and destroying homes. Parts of St, Vincent and the Grenadines have no water and no power. At least one person was reportedly killed there. 
 
The prime minister of Grenada says the country's second largest islands flattened in half an hour. Patrick Oppmann shows us what Beryl left behind and how the residents prepared.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): With wind speeds of 150 miles per hour, hurricane Beryl makes landfall in the Windward Islands. The storm close schools, businesses and airports across the islands of Grenada, Barbados and St. Lucia. As Beryl rapidly intensified, officials urged residents to seek shelter immediately.
 
RALPH GONSALVES, PRIME MINISTER OF SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES You have to be off the road. You must be off the road. The instructions to the police to enforce this. You have to take care of yourself. You have to look out for your neighbors and your friends and your families. 
 
OPPMANN (voice-over): The hurricane knocked out power in about 95 percent of Grenada and Barbados over 400 people were evacuated and housed in hurricane shelters, the nation's chief shelter warden said. Some people only had hours to prepare in lines formed at gas stations and grocery stores.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think that I am well prepared but just getting a few more count items. But in terms of the house preparation and things like that, I have my water, bottle water and collected water. I have my extra foodstuff, my batteries, my battery lakes and so on so am I prepared.
 
OPPMANN (voice-over): The National Hurricane Center warns life threatening storm surge would raise water levels six to nine feet above normal tide levels, leading to potentially catastrophic damage in low lying islands. 
 
Abnormally warm waters fueled Beryl's alarming strength record temperatures driven by climate change. Hurricane season began June 1. But already there is no shortage of pain and destruction caused by history making storm. Patrick Oppmann, CNN, Havana.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, Cristobal Mena is a disaster management expert. He joins me now from St. George's, Granada's capital. Thanks so much for joining us. I know it's very early in the morning there as it is here. 
 
You of course, have worked on preparedness than natural disasters in the past like hurricanes, earthquakes, fires. Have you ever been in a hurricane before?
 
CRISTOBAL MENA, DISASTER MANAGEMENT EXPERT: No, actually, it's my first time experiencing during the response by working before on premise, and also on every mission. This is the first time.
 
KINKADE: Can you talk us through what you've experienced there because we have heard from the Prime Minister of Grenada, saying that the country's second largest island was flattened in half an hour.
 
MENA: Yes, that's a currycomb (ph), that's been inside or Granada with a pretend burial temple (ph). So we've been on warning for the last 24 hours that we were going to arrive from 4:00 a.m. onwards.
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
And from then on almost 12 hours of just waiting, waiting how it develops. We had a strong, very strong winds and very heavy rain, probably four hours. And it just in the hours ago reported that the too much (INAUDIBLE) that will be on the island is really damaged.
 
KINKADE: I just missed that last bit. How much damage have you actually witnessed so far?
 
MENA: I'm now St. George, which is Granada's capital. So in here, there's not much damage with the southern side of Granada. But reports from the National Disaster Management Agency and also the Prime Minister, there's damage on the northern side of the island (INAUDIBLE) another island, but it's on the northern side of Granada. So what's really here, too much damage. And most of them it's on the northern side. 
 
KINKADE: And how prepared was Grenada for this hurricane, which is unusual to have a hurricane of this strength hitting making landfall so early in the hurricane season.
 
MENA: Well, Grenada, the last major hurricane that was almost 20 years ago, that's known for Hurricane Ivan. And from then on, they haven't had any major hurricane. But that doesn't mean that they haven't been preparing. 
 
Actually, they were expected to have national hurricane exercise in the next weeks. So they were just preparing for hurricane season. Last year, they updated their Disaster Management Act. So they were on top of things. And now we'll see how this develops and what the results are investing on resilience.
 
KINKADE: All right, Cristobal Mena, we might check in with you tomorrow, as you know, we get a better idea of the extent of the damage across the region. We appreciate your time. Thanks so much for joining us. 
 
MENA: Thank you.
 
KINKADE: The U.S. president is issuing a strong warning about the power of the presidency in a possible second term for Donald Trump, after the Supreme Court ruled that American presidents have absolute immunity from prosecution for official acts. Joe Biden insists that no one is above the law.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Certainly means that there are virtually no limits, or the president can do. This is a fundamentally new principle and it's a dangerous precedent. Because the power of the office will no longer be constrained by the law, even including the Supreme Court in the United States. The only limits will be self-imposed by the president alone. 
 
This decision today has continued the courts attack in recent years and a wide range of long established legal principles in our nation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, the six-three ruling deals a huge blow to the election subversion case against Trump for his behavior on January 6 in 2021, and alleged crimes they committed to try and reverse the 2020 election results. 
 
The Supreme Court with its conservative majority did not dismiss the trial entirely. But all the guaranteed it won't happen before the November election. It was supposed to start in March. 
 
Well, Trump appears delighted with the ruling saying it should quote end all of crooked Joe Biden's witch hunts against me. There is zero evidence President Biden is behind Trump's legal problems, as CNN's Katelyn Polantz reports on the details of this historic decision.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE AND CRIME REPORTER: The U.S. Supreme Court in a split six three decision decided that there is some ability for the President of the United States to have immunity for what he does when he's serving in that office. 
 
Now, it doesn't expand over everything that happens while someone is serving as president. And specifically in the case against Donald Trump, the Supreme Court does not sign off on what Trump wanted, which was to toss the entire criminal prosecution against him in federal court. 
 
Instead, what the Supreme Court says is there are official core duties under the Constitution things like working with or delegating or giving direction to people underneath the President in the executive branch that's all protected. 
 
But what's not protected is things that are in what the court call is a twilight zone or the unofficial actions of someone serving in the office, someone is a campaigner or someone doing things outside of the presidency.
 <br>[01:10:08]
 
What that means for Trump is that there is a possible path for the Justice Department's still to take him to trial. But there's going to have to be a lot of determinations on exactly what Donald Trump faces in his allegations with fake electors with his communications with Vice President Mike Pence after the 2020 election, what he was saying publicly on the campaign trail, all of that is going to have to be looked at now by a trial judge, with the possibility of further appeals delaying any trial that still has no date on the calendar. Katelyn Polantz, CNN, Supreme Court.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINAKDE: Well, a pivotal week ahead for France, where political dealmaking is expected to have the second round of parliamentary elections. The far-right took the lead in the first round, prompting rivals to seek united front in the hopes of preventing them from reaching a majority. 
 
Most candidates elected in the first round represent National Rally and its allies projection show the far-right party could win as many as 280 seats in the lower house after the second round. French newspapers reacted to the weekend results with the headlines
 
 that read the end of an era and the National Rally at the door of power. There's been reaction as well from leaders across Europe who are most expressing concern over what could come next.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO LCIP)
 
DONALD TUSK, POLISH PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This is all really starting to smell of great danger, not only the results of the first round of the French elections, but also the information about Russian influence and Russian services, and many parties of the radical right in Europe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, joining us now from Houston, Texas is CNN European Affairs commentator, Dominic Thomas. He's also a professor at UCLA. Good to see you, Don.
 
DOMINIC THOMAS, CNN EUROPEAN COMMENTATOR: Thanks for having me on, Lynda.
 
KINAKDE: So we spoke shortly after President Macron called for these early elections, discussing whether his risky move would pay off. Clearly this has backfired.
 
THOMAS: Well, I think at this stage, Lynda, so it's still too early to call. I mean, I think that ultimately with Emmanuel Macron, there has been a lot of criticism of the perceived kind of reactivity to the results of the European Union Election, and many people would have wished that he'd waited a little bit longer to think about what it was that the voters were expressing at that moment. 
 
Now, having said that, Emmanuel Macron, lost his majority in the 2022 elections and is therefore struggle to legislate. And all the measures he's taken have been unpopular. But the opposition has also been obstructionist. And they've repeatedly called for early legislative action. 
 
And I think that backhauls gate here, it's essentially to go back to the French (INAUDIBLE) that you genuinely want a far-right party of binding office, Prime Ministership, the last three years presidency. 
 
I think ultimately, we'd see so far to wait till next Monday, at the time, it's a tremendous number of people came out to vote 20 percent of 2022 and nice turnout faster to hear election. So Emmanuel Macron at this stage is waiting to see how this is going to play out over the next few days, and how parties out and support or not (INAUDIBLE).
 
KINKADE: Yeah, you make an interesting point, because it was an unusually high turnout and Macron's party came in third. So what can we expect in the next round of these elections? Because Marine Le Pen whose party took out most of the votes in the first round, because the next round is key.
 
THOMAS: It is, and the particularity of the French legislative elections, as with the French presidential elections is that there are two rounds. So when you compare it, for example, to the German context, where you just have parliamentary elections, and then the leading party has an opportunity to form a coalition under the presidential system, Emmanuel Macron's position, it's safe. 
 
So it's all about the legislative agenda at this stage. And so after the first round, the magic number in the second round is 289 seats. And Emmanuel Macron has determined that Marine Le Pen's party does not reach that threshold. 
 
So what we've seen over the last day, basically since that result on Sunday is both his party determining what kind of guidance they should give to their electors going into the second round. But remember all back in 2002, Marine Le Pen (INAUDIBLE) made second round on Republican build a creative show all against Marine Le Pen. And in 2017 to May '22 when Emmanuel Macron made it through the runoff stages to put them the same kind of guidance is given.
 <br>[01:15:04]
 
You may not vote on it, at least you will vote against Marine Le Pen. So the left has already said, when there are two days left in the rest, or third candidate is 12.5 percent of the vote is checked by a candidate based on registered voters are asking those individuals withdraw that every single race had someone against Le Pen candidate. And there's still some certainty as to whether or not Emmanuel Macron fallow this this guidance. And it looks like they will, in an attempt, once again, the far right.
 
KINKADE: All right, Dominic Thomas in Houston, Texas, that we're having a little bit of audio connection issues, but good to have you on the program. Thanks so much.
 
THOMAS: Yes. Thank you.
 
KINKADE: Well, it's just 28 years old National Rally leader Jordan Bardella could be the next French Prime Minister. CNN's Saskia Van Dorn has more on who he is and what he hopes to accomplish.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SASKYA VANDOORNE, CNN SENIOR PRODUCER (voice-over): He's been called the TikTok King, and young people love him. But who's the slick 28- year old French far-right leader on the brink of power. 
 
Jordan Bardella has transformed the National Rally, taking it from the fringes into the mainstream, solidifying its rural base.
 
JORDAN BARDELLA, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL RALLY PARTY (through translator): We want us to take agriculture completely out of the free trade agreements, so that we can protect our domestic markets.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): And using social media to reach a new generation of voters. 
 
BARDELLA (through translator): Go out and vote to stop the migration surge that threatens our security, identity and values. 
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): The populist rhetoric isn't new. But because of this gifted communicator, it's resonating in France now more than ever. 
 
KEVIN ARCENEAUX, POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR, SCIENCES PO: The sorts of young voters are attracted to Jordan Bardella they tend to have less optimism about their future. I think Jordan Bardella shows them. Look, look at me, you know, I don't have a college education. I come from a place in France that's that the elite looks down upon. If young people who also find themselves in those circumstances see that as actually inspiring.
 
VANDOORNE: Jordan Bardella grew up here in Seine-Saint-Denis, a suburb northeast of Paris. He attended this private school, and at 16 he joined the National Rally. 
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): Around here, people know his name, but they remain divided.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I'm rather proud of the fact that he is aware of our problems here that he knows our reality. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): If you're not white, if you don't have a typical French name, we're not considered French. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I know the struggles that students face here. And I don't feel that he's representing a young people.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over) Bardella was handpicked by Marine Le Pen to be her successor in an effort to detoxify and normalize the party that was founded by former French members of Hitler's SS. Though he lacks experience, he and Le Pen former powerful duo.
 
BARDELLA (through translator): She's the political leader and I'm the army general, we work together in harmony.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): First, a strong standing in the European elections. Now a real shot at the parliament. And finally another go at the presidency by Le Pen. All with one man firmly in their sights.
 
BARDELLA (through translator): The person who raised France has a name it's Emmanuel Michael.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): Saskya Vandoorne, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: When you work with fly makes an emergency landing in Brazil after strong turbulence. A passage describes the terrifying experience when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:21:05] KINKADE: Welcome back as the war in Gaza nears 10 months Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says his forces are close to eliminating Hamas in the territory.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): We are advancing to the end of the phase of eliminating the terrorist army of Hamas and there will be a continuation to strike its remnants.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Mr. Netanyahu also said he visited his Gaza division on Sunday and saw considerable achievements and fighting and Rafah. Before launching that military operation in May, Israeli leaders said that the southern Gaza City was the last stronghold of Hamas. Israel ordered residents and several parts of Khan Younis to evacuate immediately after rockets were fired from the area towards Israel. 
 
Residents say they received audio messages from Israeli phone numbers on Monday, asking them to leave. 
 
Dozens of Palestinians released from Israeli prison on Monday describing the horror they faced while in custody. They say they were abused and subjected to near daily torture, with very little to eat. CNN's Nada Bashir reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): A long hopeful reunion after months in detention, removed from Israel's devastating military onslaught on Gaza, forced instead they say, to face unspeakable horrors in Israeli detention. We were being tortured in ways I cannot describe, Hafara (ph) says. Only God knows what we have been through. I swear to you, it was the kind of torture nobody can speak off.
 
Overwhelmed, it is almost too painful for him to account. They play with your emotions, he says, they would show us photos of our relatives bodies, pictures of our families and children and say, look at your children. We killed them. They would show us pictures of our wives, our sisters and tell us that they had taken them and done this and that to them. 
 
Hafara's (ph) daughter, her father's safe return is all that she has been praying for. I'm very happy, she says. Never in my life have I been without him. Not once in seven years. 
 
Inside, the relatives of those released on Monday, frantically call loved ones to share the news. They told him they'd killed us all. He still can't believe we're all alive, this woman says. On Monday, Israel's Prison Service said that it was not aware of these claims, adding that all prisoners are detained according to the law, and that all basic rights required are fully applied by professionally trained prison guards. 
 
The Israeli security officials have previously told CNN that they have been made aware of torture tactics being used against Palestinians within Israel's prison system and are investigating. 
 
Some 50 Palestinian detainees were released by Israeli authorities on Monday. Why they were originally detained. We may never know. CNN inquiries to Israeli authorities went unanswered. 
 
Among them, the director of Gaza's largest hospital, Al Shifa, released more than seven months after Israeli forces first raided the hospital and detained him. 
 
We were beaten and tortured almost every day. My little finger was broken, and I was repeatedly struck across the head, causing me to bleed several times, Dr. Abdulsalami (ph) says. The torture taking place in Israel's prisons is need daily. 
 
The decision to release Palestinian detainees has sparked fierce backlash among some Israeli officials. Top ministers were reportedly out of the loop and everyone from the opposition leader to the far- right security minister called it dysfunction and national security malpractice.
 <br>[01:25:06]
 
But the Israel security agency Shin Bet says it was forced to release some detainees due to a shortage in prison space. Whatever the reason, Mondays were unions were a moment of relief for many families in Gaza. 
 
Mahmoud Ali Baiza (ph) says he was detained for more than eight months. Look at my legs, he says, they wouldn't give us anything to treat our rations. Many has spoken of the little food and water they received while in detention. Other say they were denied medication, including insulin for diabetes. 
 
For a month and a half, I was blindfolded, handcuffed and forced to kneel, Walalmur (ph) says, highlighting the deep scars left on his wrists. A permanent reminder of all that he and so many others have been forced to endure. Nada Bashir, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: And CNN ask the Israeli security agency Shin Bet about those allegations, but didn't not receive a reply. 
 
The mother of rescued Israeli hostage Noa Argamani has died following a battle with cancer. Liora Argamani passed away according to the Tel Aviv Hospital where she was receiving treatment. Noa was in captivity for eight months before she and three of the hostages were rescued on June 8, in an Israeli operation that Gaza authorities said killed more than 200 people. 
 
In a video message released last week Noa said her biggest concern during captivity was for her parents. 
 
Police in Australia have arrested a 14-year old boy after an apparent stabbing at the University of Sydney's Camperdown campus. Authorities say a 22-year old man was treated at the scene then taken to hospital where he's in serious but stable condition. Police say there's no longer a threat to the community. 
 
30 passengers are recovering from injuries after their flight from Spain to Uruguay hit strong turbulence. Video from the cabin shows the damage to the Air Europa's planes interior. The flight made an emergency landing in Brazil after what passengers described as a terrifying experience.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAXIMILIANO, PASSENGER (through translator): From one moment to the next the plane destabilized and went into a dive. The people who didn't have seatbelts went up in the air and hit the ceiling and they got hurt. Those who had seatbelts on not so much. Then we landed here as an emergency. They helped us on the runway. We were on the plane for three or four hours without being able to move.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: According to fly to where the aircraft is a Boeing 7879 Dreamliner. The news comes amid a string of bad publicity for Boeing which has recently faced a series of whistleblowers alleging safety issues at the company. There's no evidence Monday's incident had anything to do with this safety malfunction. 
 
Still to come, former Donald Trump adviser Steve Bannon rally his supporters outside of federal prison before starting a four-month sentence what he told them, that's that. Plus Kenyans are baring their dad after dozens were killed in government protests, more on their push to help police officials accountable when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:30:50] 
 
KINKADE: The U.S. Supreme Court's ruling that presidents cannot be prosecuted for official acts will have far-reaching consequences. The decision will likely delay Donald Trump's federal election subversion trial and could impact the other cases against him. 
 
The justices ruled along ideological lines with a six to three decision. Liberal Justice Sonia Sotomayor issued a lengthy and strongly-worded dissent, writing, "The court's ruling makes a mockery of the principle that no man is above the law." 
 
But Chief Justice John Roberts pushed back saying, quote, "The president is not above the law, but Congress may not criminalize the president's conduct in carrying out the responsibilities of the executive branch under the Constitution."
 
Donald Trump's former advisor Steve Bannon is now in a federal prison in Connecticut. Bannon reported to the facility Monday to serve a four-month sentence for defying a congressional subpoena. 
 
Here's Sara Murray with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) STEVE BANNON, FORMER TRUMP AIDE: It's time -- it's time for me to surrender up at Danbury.
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Steve Bannon reporting to federal prison in Connecticut with his usual extremist fanfare.
 
BANNON: I have not only no regrets. I'm actually proud of what I did. I felt terrible if I didn't do it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
BANNON: I don't mind going to prison today.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
MURRAY: The far-right podcast host.
 
BANNON: You're hosted tonight by federal prisoner number 05635509, formerly Stephen K. Bannon.
 
MURRAY: Joined by a smattering of Trump's supporters -- Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, and his daughter, Maureen, in his final send- off ahead of his four-month sentence.
 
MAUREEN BANNON, STEVE BANNON'S DAUGHTER: Steve Bannon's voice will not be silenced while he's in there.
 
MURRAY: The onetime White House chief strategist was convicted in 2022 of two counts of contempt of Congress, after defying a subpoena from the House committee that investigated the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol.
 
FORMER REP. LIZ CHENEY (R-WY): He said, all hell would break loose on January 6, and he was right. Ask the over 140 Capitol police officers who fought for hours and were injured.
 
MURRAY: Bannon tried and failed to postpone his sentence while he appeals his conviction. Now, he's the second former Trump aide to head to prison for contempt of Congress after Peter Navarro began serving his four-month sentence earlier this year.
 
But now Bannon is banking on Trump to get reelected in November.
 
BANNON: The message to President Trump is very simple: fight on.
 
MURRAY: And promising revenge.
 
BANNON: I don't give two (EXPLETIVE DELETED) about going to Danbury prison. Ok?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Whoa.
 
BANNON: Here's what I give (EXPLETIVE DELETED) about, we're going to take down Merrick Garland and Lisa Monaco and the corrupt DOJ and the FBI and all of it. MURRAY: In custody, Bannon was expected to endure the same treatment as any other prisoner, passing through a metal detector, undergoing a strip search and reporting to his housing unit.
 
ERIK PRINCE, BANNON SUPPORTER: We will be here in four months to collect him in good health, maybe a little thinner.
 
MURRAY: But Bannon's universe is shrinking. He won't have access to Internet and he'll have a limited number of phone minutes each month to use in 15-minute increments on a wall mounted phone.
 
BANNON: I'm totally prepared mentally, physically -- everything for prison.
 
MURRAY: Preparing to turn himself in, Bannon projected an air of defiance insisting his show would go on even though he will be barred from running the business from prison.
 
BANNON: It's man up. They can't stop this. This is our power. Our power is right here.
 
MURRAY: Now, Steve Bannon's prison consultant, Sam Mangel put out a statement after Bannon was taken into custody saying he worked with Bannon to prepare him for the practical realities of life here at this low security prison. He also noted that Bannon is going to be in a housing unit for veterans because of course, Bannon served in the U.S. Navy.
 
Sara Murray, CNN -- Danbury, Connecticut.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: U.S. President Joe Biden's family is evaluating the fallout of his debate performance and they're questioning whether top aides should be fired. They gathered at Camp David this weekend and urge the president to stay in the race. 
 
A Biden adviser says his family has offered their unequivocal support. First Lady Jill Biden told "Vogue" that the Bidens will not let those 90 minutes define four years that he's been president.
 <br>[01:34:51]
 
KINKADE: Many Democratic leaders are also standing by Mr. Biden. But polls taken after that debate show his support slipping amongst voters. 
 
According to a CBS News and YouGov poll 72 percent of voters surveyed, say Biden should not be running for president.
 
Well, the U.S. and Panama have signed an agreement to stop illegal migrants passing through the treacherous Darien Gap. Last year, a record 520,000 people crossed the mountainous rainforest region, which connects South and Central America through Panama and Colombia. 
 
The number of people risking their lives to cross the gap is increasing. Under the agreement, the U.S. will cover repatriation costs and provide Panama with logistical support.
 
Here's what Panama's new president said ahead of that announcement on Monday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSE RAUL MULINO, PANAMANIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): we cannot continue to finance the economic and social costs that massive illegal immigration generates to the country. Panama will no longer be a transit country for illegals.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, Kenyans are calling for police to be held accountable for their actions during deadly protests over the past few weeks. Kenya's National Commission on Human Rights reports that 39 people were killed, hundreds more injured by excessive and disproportionate force.
 
Youth-led protests erupted over a controversial finance bill that Kenya's president ultimately threw out.
 
CNN's Larry Madowo was in Nairobi in the deadliest day of the protest last week. His report contains a graphic images which may be hard to watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A prayer for the dead. The family of Ibrahim Kamau say their final goodbyes, his body being taken for burial. He was only 19. 
 
His mother tells us Ibrahim had just graduated from high school and was hoping to go to college. Ibrahim was shot twice in the neck at a protest in Nairobi.
 
EDITH WANJIKU KAMAU, SON KILLED IN PROTESTS (through translator): I didn't go that day because I didn't have child care, but we always went together and came back because the protests were peaceful. 
 
The first thing I want is justice for Ibrahim and all the kids who died because they all had dreams.
 
MADOWO: Protests broke out across Kenya last month against a proposed finance bill largely driven by young people organizing on social media.
 
But the deadliest day was June 25th, when protesters stormed parliament in Nairobi. Human rights groups accused police of shooting dozens of unarmed protesters, including some who were fleeing. No one has accepted or denied responsibility for the killings. 
 
Our crew filmed the shocking scenes. Like here, left of your screen, a man running away is shot in the back with a tear gas canister at close range. These protesters standing over a man who's apparently dead, police fire a non-lethal round directly at them. Nairobi's police chief seen here, commanded the operation, his officers clearly contravening their own rules for the use of force. 
 
CNN analyzed the deadliest two hours when most of the protesters are believed to have been killed.
 
Keep an eye on the man in white overalls waving his arms earlier in the day. 25-year-old Ericsson Kyalo Mutisya was supposed to be at the butcher's shop where he worked, his mother said, but ended up here. 
 
CNN's camera captured him dancing until shots ring out. Police advance towards the protesters. More shots and people run away. Amid the chaos, we spot Ericsson again. He is lifeless on the sidewalk.
 
Around him, other protesters are also on the ground. As the smoke lifts, one man has been shot in the head. People rush to help, but police keep firing at them. A bag is thrown in the air as the smoke grenade goes off, but that protester escapes. 
 
We were on the scene as this unfolded.
 
There are three bodies lying on the ground After we heard live ammunition coming from parliament. a police truck is on fire, and the protesters appear to be pushing the police, overwhelming them, getting closer to Parliament.
 
Unknown to us at the time, Ericsson's body was being carried away behind me, his white overalls soaked in blood. We obtained his autopsy report. Ericsson was shot in the back and bled to death. 
 
Moments later, another injured protester is carried away, but he is lucky. He survived. That protester is 26-year-old Ian Kaya, who was also hit in the back.
 
IAN KEYA, PROTESTER: I'm in pain because of the government.
 <br>[01:39:49]
 
MADOWO: He was demonstrating because he's been jobless since he graduated five years ago.
 
KEYA: Our main mission is to change Kenya, to be a better Kenya.
 
MADOWO: Do you regret going out to protest?
 
KEYA: I'm not regretting anything, because it's my right.
 
MADOWO: Ian is a keen bodybuilder, but has lost the use of his legs.
 
CNN obtained three autopsy reports of protesters who were demonstrating around Parliament on the same day. Two died from gunshot wounds, one was shot in the head, the other in the back. 
 
One opposition lawmaker concerned about police brutality in recent days says he will fight to hold those responsible.
 
YUSUF HASSAN ABDI, KENYAN OPPOSITION MEMBER OF THE PARLIAMENT: We cannot accept this colonial-minded, archaic, trigger-happy police. Something must change, and we would make sure that the victims of this particular crisis get justice.
 
MADOWO: Families buried their dead. Young men and women vocalizing their anger at a government they feel is not listening to them, not helping them create a better future. 
 
An oversight body is investigating police conduct during the protests, but many here don't believe they'll ever see justice.
 
Larry Madowo, CNN -- Nairobi.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, CNN asked the Kenyan police and the ministry of interior about the conduct of security forces during the protests but has not received a response. 
 
President William Ruto said in a TV interview on Sunday that the police tried their best and maintained that criminals infiltrated legitimate protests.
 
We're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back.
 
A video-gaming Italian teenager will become the Catholic Church's first millennial saint. Carlo Acutis was so renowned for using his computer skills to spread awareness of the Catholic faith that he earned the nickname God's Influencer. He died from leukemia in 2006 at the age of 15.
 
The Pope approved his canonization on Monday. Being recognized as a saint usually takes decades. But this case has moved swiftly with the teenager developing a devoted following around the world.
 
Some say Acutis' story might help the church to better connect with younger people.
 
Joining me now is Father Edward Beck, a religion and faith commentator and Roman Catholic priest.
 
Good to see you Father Beck.
 
FATHER EDWARD BECK, RELIGION AND FAITH COMMENTATOR: You too, Lynda. Thank you.
 
KINKADE: So tell us about this Italian teenager who was known as God's Influencer because of the way he used online technology to connect with young people all around the world. What do you know about Carlo? 
 <br>[01:44:48]
 
BECK: Well, first off, we know that he was born in London, but that his parents then moved to Italy while he was very young. 
 
And he was fascinated by the Internet. He used to like to play video games. And yet early on, he seemed to have a great devotion to God and to the church. And in particular to miracles. 
 
And he was very facile with the Internet. And he hosted his parishes Web site, believe it or not. And he would list all different eucharistic miracles throughout the world and Marian apparitions and post them. 
 
And the Web site grew in fame and in views. And so he really became very facile with the Internet and became God's Influencer because all over the world, people are viewing his work, his handiwork, and what he did with the Web site.
 
KINKADE: And Father Beck, in order to be considered for sainthood you have to have done two miracles. What can you tell us about the miracles attributed to Carlo? 
 
BECK: Well, the first miracle, there was a Brazilian boy who had pancreatic disease and a pretty hopeless case and reportedly his mother prayed to Carlo and he was cured and they could not quite explain the cure, but that was the first miracle.
 
And then the second miracle was a Costa Rican girl who was in Florence and riding a bicycle and had a bicycle accident. And she had severe brain trauma as a result of the accident. 
 
And her mother went to the shrine of Carlo that already had been set up in Assisi because already his renown had begun to spread. And she prayed to Carlo and the brain trauma disappeared and she was cured.
 
And so once those miracles happened, they are investigated once they are reported. And by physicians and theologians. And once they are deemed true then the second miracle allows one to then be named for canonization. 
 
KINKADE: So Carlo Acutis. He was just 15 when he died of leukemia in 2006. He was beatified in 2020. And as you say, he's going to be canonized probably next year. 
 
This seems much faster than what typically happens, the process towards canonization, right. 
 
BECK: It is fast. Few examples of it in our lifetime. Mother Teresa was put on the fast track, if you will, toward canonization. 
 
John Paul II canonized her. And at her funeral they said Santo Subito, which means Saint Now because she was recognized and revered as being a holy woman.
 
And the same too with Pope John Paul II. I mean, he was kind of fast- tracked as well by Pope Francis and was canonized in very short time. But it's unusual for a boy of 15 years old to have gone through the
 
 process this quickly. And so yes, I think the reason is because Pope Francis is very intent that this is a role model for young people and Pope Francis is very concerned about evangelization of the young people. 
 
KINKADE: No doubt, many people around the world will be watching his canonization next year.
 
Father Edward Beck, good to have you on the program. Thanks so much.
 
BECK: Thanks for having me, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Well, the Paris Olympics is just a few weeks away and Ukrainian athletes are (INAUDIBLE) team. An exclusive report on one of their biggest supporters just ahead.
 <br>[01:48:46]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back.
 
Researchers say more than a quarter of Albania's butterfly species are at risk due to urbanization and climate change.
 
CNN's Elisa Raffa explains how the decline of the butterfly is making room for destructive invasive moths.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Nets in hand, students and professors from the University of Tirana explore the hills of southwestern Albania identifying what is left of the yellow, black, red, and blue butterfly known as the Alexanor.
 
FJONA SKENDERI, UNIVERSITY OF TIRANA STUDENT (through translator): Human activity and climate change have had a major impact on nature taking (ph) along with butterflies and other already extinct species a piece of my soul and happiness. 
 
RAFFA: After collecting, students gather around to observe the butterflies as the professor inspects them. 
 
This butterfly pavilion displays a diverse array of unique species, shapes, and sizes. But sadly this museum may be the last place many of them will be seen.
 
Scientists warn that 58 of the country's 207 butterfly species are at risk, blaming rapid urbanization, pesticides, and warming temperatures. 
 
ALTIN HILA, AGRONOMIST: This year was the most disastrous for butterflies. And I think according to my experience, it is linked mainly to the climate. RAFFA: Expert Altin Hila explains that the life cycle of these insects is being disrupted by climate change. With warmer temperatures in January and February, the eggs hatch early, but then the larva can't survive the cooler temperatures in April. 
 
And as butterfly populations declined, some non-native moths are flourishing. 
 
HILA: The Chinese boxwood moth is a pest that has arrived in Albania in recent years causing big damage to our forest ecosystem across all of the country.
 
From north to south, east to west destroying at least 80 percent of the boxwood forest.
 
RAFFA: It adds up to a complex series of negative impacts that all began with a butterfly.
 
Elisa Raffa, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Two more teams are through to the quarter finals of the Euro 2024 championship. Portugal won, but you wouldn't know it from superstar Cristiano Ronaldo's tears. The striker missed a penalty kick in extra time, but his team went on to defeat Slovenia in a penalty shootout.
 
Ronaldo did score in that shootout. In fact Portugal converted all of their penalties securing a spot in the quarter finals.
 
Meantime France knocked out Belgium in a match that ended one-nil. It's one Belgium won't forget anytime soon. The winning goal deflected off their defender.
 
Portugal and France will meet in the quarter finals on Friday.
 
The president of World Athletics has invited Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy to be his special guest to the Paris Olympics. And he's pledging to give his support for Ukrainian athletes. 
 
CNN's Amanda Davies has this exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: The start of Olympics month, as you'd expect a competition scene of athletes with their eyes on the prize.
 
But this is Ukraine and national championships started with a moment of silence for lives lost as the two-time gold medal winner World Athletics president Sebastian Coe knows how hard the road to Olympic glory can be. 
 
And he's fulfilling a promise to the Ukrainian athletes, traveling to visit them at home. We were invited to join him for the journey.
 
What is the message you want to send for this trip?
 
SEBASTIAN COE, PRESIDENT, WORLD ATHLETICS: That we stand behind them.
 
DAVIES: World Athletics are the only Olympic sports federation to have banned all Russian and Belarusian athletes from elite competition since the start of the full-scale invasion.
 
COE: Hello, Mr. President.
 
DAVIES: First stop a meeting with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy to reiterate their commitment. 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: Thank you for coming again and thank you for supporting our sportsmen and Ukrainians. 
 
DAVIES: There had been talk of a boycott of the games by Ukraine after the International Olympic committee refused to take a tougher stance on athletes from Russia and Belarus leaving the door open for individuals to qualify as neutrals, providing they fulfill certain criteria.
 <br>[01:54:53]
 
COE: I did use the opportunity to make him absolutely understand that if he does make it to Paris, then he has an open invitation to watch, the number one Olympic sport. 
 
DAVIES: This gymnasium here in Kyiv was hit by a missile in March. Incredibly, nobody was killed and it's one of 518 sporting facilities that have been damaged or destroyed over the last few years, 15 of which have been Olympic facilities. 
 
It's meant many of the country's top athletes have been forced to train abroad, sporting refugees traveling from training camp to training camp, event to event in their quest to keep their Olympic dreams on track. 
 
No member of this team has been spared the impact of the war. 
 
400-meter hurdler Viktoriya Tkachuk with so much more on her mind than the finish line with her brother Ivan fighting for his country on the frontline of the war against Russia.
 
VIKTORIA TKACHUK, UKRAINIAN ATHLETE: I was sitting in my train already and I saw him through the window and I realized that I really don't know if I will see him again. And that would hurt. 
 
I'm sorry.
 
DAVIES: The most vivid of reminders of the state of play, just a stone's throw from the Lviv athletic stadium. A burial ground for soldiers killed in the conflict. Among them, several of the at least 479 athletes who've died, a number that gives a very different meaning to the phrase fighting for your country that's so often used in the sporting context. 
 
And faces and lives lost that provide all the motivation any Ukrainian athlete will need in Paris.
 
Amanda Davis, CNN -- Lviv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, thanks for watching. 
 
I'm Lynda Kinkade. Good to have your company tonight. 
 
CNN NEWSROOM continues with my friend and fellow Aussie Rosemary Church right after this.
 <br>[01:57:05]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)