Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Christians Around The World Celebrate Christmas, Pope Francis Preparing For Annual Christmas Message; Santas Spread Holiday Cheer On The Beaches; Bill Clinton Home After Brief Flu Hospitalization; Trump Vows To Vigorously Pursue Death Penalty In Next Term; Erdogan Offers Condolences as 11 Killed In Ammo Factory In Turkey; Two Reporters Killed In Gang Attack On Hospital In Haiti; NYC Subway Killing Suspect Arraigned On Murder And Arson Charges, Did Not Enter Plea; Steelers- Chiefs, Ravens-Texans Games Will Be Exclusively On Netflix This Christmas; Passenger Plane Crashes In Kazakhstan; NORAD Tracks Santa Claus Making His Way Around the World. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired December 25, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:31]
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: It is Christmas morning. And a very good morning to you. Good afternoon or wherever you are joining us, you are most welcome. It is the Christmas CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Richard West. Together, we'll talk about holiday cheer spreading around the world.
 
It was at the Vatican where, of course, Midnight Mass was held as millions now worldwide await the Pope's Christmas Day message, which we'll have in a few hours.
 
Christmas celebrations were also, of course, muted, because in parts of the world, it's a holiday spent under the shadow of war, doing the best they can.
 
You are most welcome wherever in the world, you are joining me. It 8:00 in Vatican City. And there, Pope Francis is preparing to deliver his annual opiate or the Christmas message to the city and to the world. The Pope started the Catholic Holy Year, also known as a jubilee. It was the ceremonial opening of the Holy Door at St. Peter's Basilica. And the Pope delivered his Christmas Eve homily, which he pleaded for developing nations to reduce the debt burden on low income countries.
 
Pope Francis says the story of Jesus should inspire everyone to make a difference in the world.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POPE FRANCIS, HEAD OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH AND SOVEREIGN OF THE VATICAN CITY STATE (through translation): There is so much desolation in this time. Think of wars and children being gunned down, bombs on schools and hospitals. Don't delay, don't slow down. But let yourself be drawn by the good news. This is our task to translate hope into the different situations of life. Hope calls us to become pilgrims in search of truth, dreamers who never tire, women and men open to being challenged by God's dream of a new world where peace and justice reign.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Hope and challenge were certainly on display in many countries of the world, where they celebrated Christmas or celebrating under the shadow of conflict. In Bethlehem, Christians gathered to celebrate mass there in the biblical birthplace of Jesus, and they also gathered in war ravaged Gaza.
 
In Ukraine, they're trying to keep the holiday spirit despite nearly three years of war. We'll have more in a moment on the renewed Christmas Day attacks from Russia.
 
In Paris, there was a wonderful feeling of rebirth at Notre Dame Cathedral, filled with celebration five years after the devastating fire. Mass being celebrated for the first time.
 
Britain's Princess of Wales hosted her Christmas concert at Westminster Abbey which was recorded earlier in the month. But it was broadcast to the United Kingdom on Christmas Eve. And President Biden had his own uplifting message to Americans. He called on people to look at each other as fellow human beings worthy of being treated with dignity and respect.
 
Light-hearted celebrations. The traditional water skiing Santas in Cocoa Beach in Florida. They were much to be seen, and it would not be Christmas Day in Australia if there wasn't a Santa on Bondi Beach. (INAUDIBLE) they soaking up for some tourists and residents alike with a Santa. Oh, you see, there you go. Ask it. What -- all your Christmas is in one go, a Santa a dog and a Santa uniform.
 
As we mentioned and quick look at where Santa is at the moment. By the way, I'll show you that in a moment. According to NORAD Santa is making his way at the moment. I believe it's over northern Canada as he delivers nearly eight billion gifts so far, seven billion have been delivered.
 
Now, as we mentioned, Pope Francis is set to deliver his annual Christmas message from the Vatican in around four hours. CNN's -- CNN Vatican Correspondent Christopher Lamb more on how Pope Francis. will celebrate this holy day.
 <br>[02:05:01]
 
CHRISTOPHER LAMB, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Pope Francis formally began the Catholic Church's Jubilee Year in St. Peter's Basilica on Christmas Eve. The Jubilee is an ancient tradition which is focused on forgiveness and pilgrimage. And during the year, 35 million people are expected to travel to Rome.
 
The Pope began the Jubilee with the opening of the Holy Door in St Peter's Basilica, which is normally cemented shut but has been opened for this special celebration. The Pope was wheeled up to the door, it opened, and pilgrims filed in behind him, touching the bronze panels, as is tradition. According to Catholic teaching, those who carry out certain spiritual charitable acts and go through a Holy Door will receive an indulgence, which is related to the forgiveness of sins.
 
The Pope is hoping this Jubilee can bring hope to a troubled world. And in his Christmas Eve homily, said he wanted the Jubilee to be a time where peace and justice reign.
 
The Pope was also called for the Jubilee to be a time when richer countries forgive the debts of poorer nations and for prisoners to be offered amnesties or pardons. The day after Christmas, the Pope will travel to Rebibbia Prison on the outskirts of Rome and become the first pope to open a Holy Door in a prison. Something that he hopes sends a message to governments across the globe.
 
Now this Jubilee Year is likely to test the stamina of the 88-year-old pontiff, but he is determined that the message of the Jubilee should resonate across the globe.
 
Christopher Lamb, CNN, London.
 
QUEST: in Syria, Christmas takes on a special meaning, the country's Christian community is celebrating the holiday for the first time since the fall of Bashar al-Assad.
 
Despite the sense of caution, because the country is now being run by Islamist rebels. Perhaps an indication of the direction of the future. A group of men set fire to a Christmas tree in a Christian majority town near the city of Hama on Monday night. No one claimed responsibility but a rebel flanked by Christian priests promised to punish the perpetrators and those who were responsible.
 
Video of the tree burning stark protests at the capital Damascus and elsewhere. Demonstrators marched towards a church demanding better protection for Christians.
 
DANIEL ASSI, SYRIAN CHRISTIAN FROM HOMS (through translator): Whoever is saying we are a minority, we are not. We are here from the beginning, Christianity was present in Syria. From the beginning, we will remain in Syria and we will live as Muslims and Christians together. We do not seek sectarianism. We do not want anyone to come near us. We will remain committed to our cross, and we do not want anyone to attack our churches.
 
We do not want Chechen groups to attack our churches. We are Christians, and we have rights like any citizen in Syria.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Christmas celebrations are underway in the West Bank of Bethlehem. Worshipers were at the Church of the Nativity for midnight mass. It was led by as traditionally, the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem. Now the biblical birthplace of Jesus has scaled back festivities since the Hamas attack on Israel and the war in Gaza. The mayor says Israeli restrictions suspended tourism and the closure of its gates have left the city in severe isolation. In Gaza City itself, there were celebrations of mass at the Latin Church of the Holy Family, which has served as a shelter for the small religious minority during the war.
 
Palestinian officials say Israeli forces have killed at least eight people in raids or refugee camps in the West Bank. Palestinian health ministry says two of the casualties were women. Israel's military says it killed one person that it's calling a terrorist and arrested 18 others in a counter-terrorism operation. And they say this is dozens of weapons.
 
H.A. Hellyer is a Senior Associate Fellow at the Royal United RUSI, Royal United Services Institute. He's with me from Cairo. Sir, whatever you may be celebrating at this time of the year, I wish you the season's greetings, regardless of denomination.
 
Let's just talk about this. It is just -- it is a sad reflection that the fighting not even World War II star, sorry -- World War I style does not even take armistice truce for Christmas Day. It is a sad reflection of the situation on both sides.
 
H.A. HELLYER, SENIOR ASSOCIATE FELLOW, ROYAL UNITED SERVICES INSTITUTE: So, season of greetings to you as well, Mr. Quest. I will say that it's not really both sides. There's a war on Gaza.
 <br>[02:10:01]
 
Christian communities in Gaza are in a very dire state, as their representatives have made clear multiple times over the past year, their churches, their communities, it's quite extraordinary to see the Pope actually come out so publicly so many times over the past year in that regard. I do think that there are other signs of optimism elsewhere, but certainly not in the occupied territories, neither on the West Bank, nor in Gaza.
 
You mentioned the situation in Syria. The attack that took place -- well, attack. it was a tree burning in quite a huge country. There was only one such incident reported, and it was quickly condemned. And perhaps these reports haven't become widespread. Hasn't widespread yet, but the reports I saw was that actually HCS new authorities in Syria, of course "
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
QUEST: Let me jump in. Let me jump in. Just a minute, sir. Just a minute, sir. Just a minute, sir. There's a lot there. I want to -- I'd like to unpack it bit by bit, if I may. Let's talk to -- about Syria. You rightly point out that it was a sort of an isolated incident of a tree burning. I guess the significant people are watching closely for signs of something that might presage good or bad. And in a sense, this has done both, because the way in which the rebels have very quickly turned around and said, no, whoa, whoa, whoa, this is not what the new Syria is about. That's a massive perhaps sign of hope for Syria's tolerant future of multi "
 
(CROSSTALK) HELLYER: I certainly hope so. So, what we have at the moment in Syria
 
 is a transitional phase. What we have in Syria is as a phase where, you know, many things can happen which is quite different as compared to what we had under the Assad regime. And what we saw was A, a tree was burned by some individuals that apparently were not Syrian, according to the new authorities. But the new authorities could have just left it, right?
 
They didn't. They sent a representative to the community, condemned it, said that the perpetrators would be punished, which is good. I think that right now, people are waiting for disaster to unfold in Syria or for everything to go along perfect.
 
QUEST: Right. What do you think "
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HELLYER: I think that it's likely (INAUDIBLE)
 
QUEST: What do you think the religious outlook for -- within Syria? How -- even assuming it's a, you know, it is a predominantly -- it chooses a predominantly Islamic State or in a sense, I use that with a small I and a small S. How do you see -- how do you see it? Clearly, they obviously, Afghanistan is the -- what it is -- does not want, you know, the west does not want it to be. Where do you see it in terms of more of a Jordanian model, more of an Egyptian model. What do you think is the way it'll look?
 
HELLYER: So, there are 51 member states of the Organization of Islamic Conference, the OIC which groups, you know, all Muslim majority states in the world. And they have many, many different models, right?
 
And I think it's important that we center what Syrians are going to want, not what anybody else is going to want. And I think that the societal outlook of Syria is quite pluralistic. I suspect that there will be a role for religious law in -- or rather Islamic law in the legal system of the country, much as it is throughout the Muslim world, be it maybe in Jordan, in Egypt, in the UAE, in Morocco, pretty in most Muslim countries around the world.
 
The important thing, I think here is to see how inclusive the transitional process is going to be. How it's going to be able to take on board the concerns, the wishes, the hopes, the dreams, the desires of all sectors of Syrian society. And again, it's early days. You know, the rebels became the new authorities weeks ago. It's only been two weeks and a lot could go wrong. And I think that we should all keep our fingers on the pulse. We should all be very aware that things could go wrong.
 
We should try to encourage a good path forward in hand with the Syrian people.
 
QUEST: All right. I'm grateful to you, sir. Things can go wrong, and let's hope they go right. I'm grateful. Thank you. I wish to see you again. Seasons greetings. As we continue now, three former presidents joined Panama's current leader in the joint declaration asserting the country's control over the Panama Canal.
 <br>[02:15:05]
 
Of course, it follows President-elect Donald Trump threatening to retake the canal for the United States. He's accused Panama of charging exorbitant rates for the canal's use. CNN's Gustavo Valdes has more on Panama's reaction.
 
GUSTAVO VALDES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Donald Trump's suggestion that the United States should retake control of the Panama Canal was met with some protests in Panama. Some people went in front of the U.S. Embassy. Many of them were union workers. The people who helped ship vessels crossed from one ocean to the other. They believe it is an insult to suggest that the canal should go back to the United States.
 
President -- Panamanian President Jose Raul Mulino sounded a little bit more dismissive of the idea. He said that the canal and all the area around it belongs to the Panamanian people, and suggested that perhaps Donald Trump should learn more history.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSE RAUL MULINO, PRESIDENT OF PANAMA (through translator): That is a manifestation of gross ignorance of history. So, all those speculations and all that range of eventualities that are not going to happen, well, I leave them there as totally irrelevant issues and quite bordering on historical in coherence with what the Panama Canal has been, is and will be.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VALDES: He also highlighted the contribution of the canal to the global economy. He highlighted some recent improvements to the canal that allow for larger ships to cross the oceans, and he says that is a big revenue for the Panamanian government. So, he doesn't believe that the United States will retake control. He actually had support from three former Panamanian president who signed a letter in support of the Panamanian position.
 
Now it is not clear what Donald Trump can actually do to retake control of the Panama Canal. He's worried about the fees charged. The fees are charged accordingly to the size of the vessels that cross over. He's also suggesting that China has increasing influence in the region and that is another reason why the United States should retake control. It is true that China has been increasing their presence in Latin America, but that is also because perhaps the United States has not been investing as much as the Chinese government has been doing in the last few years.
 
Now, at the end of the year, December 31st the Panamanian government is going to celebrate 25 years since the United States handed over control of the canal.
 
Gustavo Valdes, CNN, Saltillo, New Mexico.
 
QUEST: All right, I think you've had a busy night. Santa has been going full throttle around the world. This is where he is at the moment. He's over northern Canada at the moment, working his way through. As you can see, we will continue to follow Santa through NORAD. They do it every year. We always go along with it. It's still the best one. There are others who follow Santa, but I still believe in the gold standard and that's NORAD. They keep us all safe and so they can watch transfer as well.
 
Coming up as we continue. It is Christmas Day. They did the best that they could, but it's hard to celebrate Christmas for their aid sirens overshadowing the carols and the prayers. It's the third Christmas at war in Ukraine. We'll talk about it after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:45]
 
QUEST: Warm Welcome back to us now. Let's take a look at where Santa is currently in the world. Coeur d'Alene in Idaho. I'm sure I mispronounced that. It's probably knowing the American pronunciation queer Adeline or something. But anyway, I would say Coeur d'Alene. There we go. You've met a Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. How many? About nearly 7.1 billion gifts have been given. And Santa -- don't go, we're going to track Santa all the way.
 
Got the west coast and the Pacific, Hawaiian Islands, few other things somewhere in the middle. Before you get back to the dateline again. We'll carry on.
 
Ukraine says that Russia has launched a series of missile attacks on Kharkiv. Residential buildings and civilian infrastructure were hit. Several people have been hurt. Ukraine's Energy Minister now says that Russia has targeted the energy structure on a massive scale and all this on Christmas morning. So, as everyone wakes up, Ukrainians are doing their best to celebrate the holiday as Russia continues its war.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Carolers continue to sing in Kyiv outside a giant lit Christmas tree. Obviously, they hope is the better future for the country. And Christmas Eve services were marred by the Wales of air-raid sirens as Russia launched more attacks, particularly towards Kryvyi Rih. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is insisting Ukrainians are not giving up hope for their country.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): This is the sound of a miracle. This is the sound of life. This is the sound of Christmas. This is our third Christmas during war time, our great Ukrainian family cannot fully celebrate it the way we would like to, the way it should be celebrated. Not all of us are home, unfortunately, sadly, not everyone has a home, and tragically, not everyone is with us.
 
Yet despite all the hardships brought by the enemy, they have failed to take or destroy what matters most, our hearts, the life within us. Our faith and goodness and mercy and the humanity that lives in each of us.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Relatives of Ukrainian soldiers who died in the war decorating their loved one's grave and say it's still a way to spend time with their loved -- their family members at this sacred holiday time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YURI KHMIYAR, STEPMOTHER OF FALLEN SOLDIER (through translator): On his grave, I did that myself. I made that Christmas tree, that wreath, almost all night, and in the morning, I came and put it for him. I want it to be beautiful for him.
 
MARIYA, MOTHER OF FALLEN SOLDIER (through translator): It seemed like there would be no war, but there is a war, a cruel war, and our children are dying, and instead of having dinner with them at home, we come here, bring couture, Christmas donuts and mourn our sons.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: U.S. State Department says it's monitoring the case of an American citizen imprisoned in Russia and convicted of spying. State media hasn't released any details or many at least, why officials believe Eugene Spector is guilty. CNN's Nada Bashir brings us up to date.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, yet another U.S. citizen has been sentenced to a lengthy prison term in Russia. Gene Spector who was born in Russia and later moved to the U.S. and received citizenship was sentenced to 15 years in prison on Tuesday on charges relating to espionage, according to state-run media. Now, Spector was already serving jail time in Russia after he pled guilty in 2020 to enabling bribes to an aide of Russia's former deputy prime minister Arkady Dvorkovich.
 
According to an independent Russian outlet, Mediazona who had a journalist inside the courtroom, Spector was, on Tuesday, sentenced to 13 years in a maximum-security penal colony, and also received a fine of more than $140,000. Details of the espionage charges against Spector have not been made public, but he is one of a host of U.S. citizens serving jail time in Russia.
 
In October, 72-year-old Stephen Hubbard, originally from Michigan was sentenced to almost seven years in prison for allegedly fighting as a mercenary for Ukraine. According to state-run media.
 <br>[02:25:04]
 
And in July, Robert Woodland, a U.S. citizen of Russian origin, was sentenced to more than 12 years in a maximum-security penal colony for drug-related charges.
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, London.
 
QUEST: Right. It is that time, that celebratory time of Christmas crackers. Those of you who are not familiar with this tradition, you pull a cracker, you tell a joke and et cetera, et cetera. Mr. Harry Steve. Harry is -- come on in. Come on in. You have a choice. Do you want the cheap or the very cheap?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The cheap.
 
QUEST: Ready?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm terrible at this. Three, two, one.
 
QUEST: Oh, It didn't even go off.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Come, come.
 
QUEST: All right. Here we go. All part of the Christmas tradition. Where is the "oh, look at that quality. Oh, you already got" you have them.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
QUEST: Oh, good lord. You came ready prepared, didn't you? You came ready prepared. Here we go. Here we go. Where's the joke? Oh, good Lord, there no end to this Christmas festivities. Be still my beating heart. Here we go. I say -- I say to yourself, what starts with a tea ends with a tea and is full of tea?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No idea.
 
QUEST: A tea pot.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK.
 
QUEST: Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Where is Santa at the moment? There he is. Santa is still working his way around the world is now over Flagstaff in Arizona. Oh, look at these gifts. Look at these gifts. I have no idea what you do with that, but I suspect it's not something one should do under on international television. We'll be right back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL: BREAK)
 
QUEST: And a warm welcome back and of a Merry Christmas. Now, former President Bill Clinton is back home in time for the holidays. He was released from Georgetown University Hospital in Washington on Tuesday. He went into hospital for a fever and then was admitted for testing and observation. Mr. Clinton's office said he was treated for flu and that both he and his family are deeply grateful for the exceptional care he was given and the kind messages received during the short stay.
 <br>[02:30:10] Donald Trump is promising a great use of the death penalty once he returns to the White House next month. It follows, of course, President Biden's decision to commute the death sentences of nearly all the federal prisoners on death row. CNN's Julia Benbrook has more.
 
JULIA BENBROOK, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  During the 2024 campaign, President-elect Donald Trump indicated that he would restart federal executions and that he would try and expand the pool of crimes eligible for capital punishment under federal law. Trump has said that President Joe Biden's recent actions, "Make no sense", and he went on to say in a statement released Tuesday on social media, "I will direct the Justice Department to vigorously pursue the death penalty to protect American families and children from violent rapists, murderers and monsters. We will be a nation of law and order again."
 
This statement follows Biden's latest end-of-term action. He commuted the sentences of 37 federal prisoners, those people will now serve life in prison instead. In the announcement of those actions, Biden said, "Make no mistake. I condemn these murderers, grieve for the victims of their despicable acts, and ache for the families who have suffered unimaginable and irreparable loss. But guided by my conscience and my experience as a Public Defender, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, vice President, and now President, I am more convinced than ever that we must stop the use of the death penalty at the federal level. In good conscience, I cannot stand back and let a new administration resume executions I had halted.
 
Biden's decision leaves only three federal prisoners awaiting execution when Trump takes office.
 
At the White House, Julia Benbrook, CNN
 
QUEST:  In Turkey, the President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is offering condolences following a deadly blast at an ammunitions factory. The interior minister says 11 people were killed and seven were injured. The cause of the blast is not known, but authorities say they have now ruled out sabotage. Turkey's justice minister posted on social media that chemical, mechanical and engineering experts are now assigned to investigate. And CNN Turk is reporting that officials are trying to confirm how many people were actually inside the building at the time.
 
Haitian journalists say two reporters have been killed and several wounded on Tuesday after gang members opened fire on a hospital that had just reopened. This is the chaotic scene after the attack. The journalists had gathered at the largest public hospital in Port-au- Prince, which was about to reopen, and then gang violence forced its closure. Around 85 percent of Haiti capital is estimated to be under gang control. One powerful gang coalition took responsibility for the attack saying it had not authorized the hospital's reopening.
 
Disturbing new details are now becoming clear in the case of the man who is accused of setting a woman on fire and killing her on a New York subway train. The suspect, who's an undocumented immigrant from Guatemala, has been arraigned on murder and arson charges. He has so far not entered a plea. CNN's Gloria Pazmino reports. GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That's right. We're learning more about the suspect. His name is Sebastian Zapeta-Calil. He's 33 years old and is originally from Guatemala. We are told by customs and border patrol officials that he entered the United States in 2018. He was initially deported, but he re-entered the country. And recently, while he's been here in New York City, he has checking -- he has been checking in and out of homeless shelters, including the most recent one, a homeless shelter for men with substance abuse issues.
 
Now, the suspect appeared in front of a judge in Brooklyn Criminal Court on Tuesday where he was formally arraigned on murder in the first and second degree charges, as well as arson. This is all in relation to that horrific incident which took place on Sunday morning inside of a subway train in Brooklyn. Police officials tell us that the suspect was inside the train, along with a woman who appeared to be asleep at the time. They say he walked over to her, pulled a lighter out of his jacket pocket, and lit her on fire. The woman was burned alive.
 
As this was happening, the suspect stepped out of the train and sat down on a bench on the platform and watched as the woman was dying. Now, we've also learned some more additional details and they're somewhat graphic from this arraignment. We know that there's evidence which shows the suspect actually fanning the flames using a t-shirt to fan the flames as the woman was becoming engulfed in fire. Now, the cause of death for this victim who still remains unidentified has also been determined.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
The city's medical examiner has ruled the death, a homicide and she -- and they said that the cause of death was the result of smoke inhalation, as well as thermal injuries. Now, the suspect was remanded back into custody. He is expected to appear in court again on Friday.
 
Gloria Pazmino, CNN, New York.
 
QUEST:  As you and I continue our Christmas Day together, from fighting Alzheimer's and obesity to understanding environmental impacts on our health, the top medical stories that we all looked at in this year.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
QUEST:  All right. Did Santa deliver your gifts and goodies? This is where he is at the moment. He's over Cabo San Lucas in Mexico in two minutes, so he is making his way down. Oh, it's actually (inaudible) enjoy this down the Eastern Seaboard. How many -- do you know how many presents he has delivered so far this year? I can tell you, 7.2 billion. So I guess, it's about 7.7 billion by the time we are finished.
 
As to the year overall, 2024 has been a year of remarkable advances in medicine and medical technology. Our Chief Medical Correspondent is Dr. Sanjay Gupta. Now, he reviews some of the biggest stories in health and wellness over the last 12 months. DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  From another potential pandemic to health threats infiltrating our daily lives, 2024 provided us with some warning signs, but we also saw stories with hard-earned moments of inspiration and innovation, reminding us of the relentless search for the next medical breakthrough.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  With more than a hundred thousand people on the wait list for organ transplants in the United States, there is a clear need for a solution, and this could be the answer.
 
MICHAEL CURTIS, CEO, EGENESIS, INC.:  They're fully edited. All these piglets can carry a total of 69 edits to the genome.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  Genetically edited pigs designed by scientists to be compatible with the human body, reducing the possibility of rejection. Scientists have started to make progress testing this type of organ transplant. It's known as xenotransplantation. They're doing this in the patients who have no other alternatives.
 
As temperatures around the world keep climbing, it's taking a clear toll on our health, testing the limits even of human survivability. This year, people hiking, attending concerts, just being in their own homes, they have died from heat. In fact, heat is the deadliest type of extreme weather and climate change is making those heat waves longer and more severe. Heat also means warmer oceans, leading to these supercharged hurricanes like the ones that we saw this year, and that comes with their own health consequences as well.
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
Imagine using a computer by only using your mind. That's just the beginning of what Brain Computer Interface or BCI technology combined with Artificial Intelligence is now hoping to do. Companies like Synchron and Elon Musk's Neuralink, they have begun implanting BCI devices into people's brains to help people who are losing motor functions still be able to perform daily tasks.
 
Earlier this year, I met Mark. He is an ALS patient who has mostly lost the ability to use his arms, and we saw firsthand how Synchron's Stentrode device helps send messages on his computer and even play a game like Pong. He hopes this technology can help him, can help other patients struggling as well with paralysis, maintain as much independence as possible.
 
TIMOTHY MITCHELL, COLON CANCER SURVIVOR:  I was 43 years old at the time when I was diagnosed.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  A growing number of young adults like Timothy Mitchell, are being diagnosed with cancer.
 
DR. JONATHAN VILLENA, AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY:  Cancer which usually would affect people over 65, has now become much more prevalent in patients under 55.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  While the trends have been headed this way for more than a decade, experts still aren't sure why this is happening. But it has put a spotlight on the importance of recommended preventative screenings, paying attention to any unusual symptoms in your body, and a search for factors that could be behind this increase.
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  A new study shows an increase in levels of microplastics in human brains.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  Microplastics, they are everywhere nowadays. They're in our food, they're in our clothing, they're in the air we breathe. And now, we're starting to get a better understanding of their potential impact on our health. There was a study that found people with micro or nanoplastics in their carotid arteries were twice as likely to have a heart attack or stroke, or die from any other cause over the next three years --
 
GUPTA:  -- compared to people who had none.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  If you're a parent, I know you're going to understand this.
 
DR. VIVEK MURTHY, U.S. SURGEON GENERAL:  48 percent, nearly half of parents, are saying on most days they're completely overwhelmed by their stress.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  This summer, the U.S. Surgeon General, Dr. Vivek Murthy, issued an advisory calling parental stress a public health concern, saying that we need a cultural shift with both individual and government intervention. Parents are working more than ever, and childcare demands have only increased, leaving many families feeling exhausted, burned out, perpetually behind. That's what Murthy said.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  It's no secret that diet plays a major role in our health. And while we know the benefits of healthy food, the harms of ultra-processed food are now coming into clearer focus. Ultra- processed foods make up nearly 70 percent of our country's food supply. Numerous studies have found that consuming higher amounts of these foods raises the risk of obesity, but also the development of chronic conditions like cancer, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, depression, and it probably even shortens lifespan. Researchers are now trying to figure out if ultra-processed ingredients are all created equal.
 
An alarming spread of bird flu throughout dairy herds across the United States has scientists on edge.
 
ANDREW BOWMAN, OHIO STATE EPIDEMIOLOGIST:  As we think about a virus that might move from animals into humans, and potentially cause the next pandemic, certainly has everyone's guard up.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  While the CDC says the public health risk remains low, there have been cases of bird flu in humans.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST:  The CDC is now confirming the first severe case of H5N1 bird flu in a human inside the United States.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  Most human cases have been among people who've been exposed to sick animals, but that hasn't completely eased the fears of possibility of human to human transmission.
 
There may be more hope for Alzheimer's patients than ever. A new study led by Dr. Dean Ornish found that some patients who underwent lifestyle interventions alone, like eating a vegan diet, exercising daily, practicing stress reduction, they saw improved cognition, even signs of reversal of the disease. I got to see this firsthand, meeting patients all over the country.
 
MIKE CARVER, ALZHEIMER'S PATIENT:  This is the best I can do to stay alive. And I want to live with my wife as long as I can.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  We also did see promise in newly approved pharmaceutical interventions, including monoclonal antibody treatments, Donanemab for example, demonstrating the ability to slow the progression of the disease. For decades, we only saw incremental progress in treating this disease. But now, I have to say, these options are giving patients new hope.
 
This year, we traveled around the world, investigating the impact of the GLP-1 weight loss drugs. With no signs of slowing in popularity now, these drugs have given us new insight into obesity as a disease.
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
RASHEEDA BUSH, OZEMPIC USER:  What it did help me was not have a whole lot of thoughts about food. My cravings went away.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  We now consider obesity a disease of the brain, a revelation that I think has lifted a sense of guilt associated with this disease, helped us get to a better understanding of how to treat it as well.
 
DR. DAN SKOVRONSKY, CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER. ELI LILLY:  It's definitely true that there are people out there who've said time and again, obesity is not really a disease. All you need to do is eat better and exercise more and you'll be OK.
 
GUPTA (voice-over):  While these drugs may not be for everyone, we have seen how they can transform people's lives, physically, yes, but also emotionally. We've only at this point, begun to unlock the possibilities. Studies have found that these drugs could be associated with cardiovascular benefits, lowering the risk of certain cancers, curbing cravings as well beyond food, like nicotine and alcohol.
 
And I'm sure we're going to continue to learn a lot more about this in 2025. Happy New Year.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST:  Thanks to Sanjay Gupta. NFL Football has become a Christmas tradition in the United States. This year, well, if you want to see it, Netflix is the only place to see it and the streaming platform is banking on some serious star power to bring in bigger audience. In just a moment, I'll explain more.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) QUEST:  We're getting reports of a passenger plane that's crashed near the Kazakh City of Aktau on Wednesday. According to the authorities there, the number of people on board hasn't been specified. Kazakhstan's Ministry of Emergency Situations says the team found the aircraft on fire upon arrival. In their words, rescue units began extinguishing the fire. Information on victims is being clarified, and there are no survivors. It's believed to be Azerbaijan Airlines.
 
According to online chatter, if you will, it's an Embraer 190. We'll get more details on that, the route and where it is. But apparently, that -- the other reports are, and this is a good indication of why we're being very careful what we say and how we say it. There are reports of survivors, but as soon as we find more details and bring them to you, we will of course.
 
And so, American football on Christmas Day has been a tradition of watching it in the United States this year. There is a twist. You can only see the Steelers-Chiefs and the Ravens-Texans NFL games on Netflix. The streaming service has some serious star power lined up to attract holiday viewers, and there's one concern though, whether Netflix will actually crash under the weight of expectations. CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): With star power so big, on a holiday so beloved, Netflix's first foray into the NFL might just be called the second Super Bowl.
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Anytime the game is on, in our household, we're around the TV and I think a lot of people feel the same way. So it's a very interesting proposition that Netflix is bringing to the table.
 
MARIAH CAREY, AMERICAN SINGER-SONGWRITER AND RECORD PRODUCER:  This Christmas, we all get our wish.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over):  Mariah Carey opens each of the two Netflix Christmas games with the recorded version of her holiday mega hit, "All I Want for Christmas is You." Then, a touchdown for Netflix as Beyonce performs a live halftime show during the second game between the Texans and Ravens in her hometown of Houston.
 <br>[02:50:00]
 
MATT BELLONI, FOUNDING PARTNER, PUCK:  Netflix did a really smart thing in getting arguably, a bigger name than Kendrick Lamar, who is headlining the Super Bowl halftime show to headline the Netflix Christmas Day halftime show.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over):  And what about that other star in the stands with the Chiefs and Steelers kicking off the day? Taylor Swift may just be the gift that keeps on giving. Possibly back to cheer on Travis Kelce, just as she did last Christmas. Great for the NFL and Netflix, maybe not for the NBA, which traditionally owns the Christmas audience. MANNO:  The NFL is king, you know, and if they find a way to become easy to find on Christmas Day, you could not blame NBA executives for being a little bit concerned about what that might mean for the ratings of their holiday slate.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over):  But as Netflix continues its push into live programming, the streaming giant has something to prove. "The Love is Blind" reunion had major technical glitches, as did the recent Mike Tyson and Jake Paul fight.
 
BELLONI:  The NFL is not going to be as forgiving as Mike Tyson and Jake Paul if there are technical glitches.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over):  Netflix has one key advantage. It's global. Both Christmas games will be available worldwide, streaming in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and German. And the NFL has made clear it wants to expand overseas.
 
MANNO:  More than 250 million subscribers globally, 80 million of those in the United States and Canada. If it goes well for Netflix, I'd imagine that they would continue to be interested in upcoming live sports rights, and that'll continue to shift how and where people watch.
 
WAGMEISTER:  Now, Netflix appears to continue getting into the sports game, just over the last week announcing that they have acquired the rights to the FIFA Women's World Cup for the year 2027 and 2031, which is a huge deal in the sporting world. And it's really no surprise that Netflix wants to continue with live sporting events because in this TikTok age where viewers are everywhere, sports remains one of the few things that families get together, and it always delivers a good rating. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST:  Now, it has been a busy year of travel one way and the other. Wherever I've been in the world, in fact, I was just looking back at the destinations between "World of Wonder", "Quest Means Business", and all the various other stories. It's a big world and it's a world of wonder.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST:  Where are we?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Beaufort.
 
QUEST:  Beaufort?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Not Melbourne. Does this look like Melbourne to you?
 
QUEST:  Look at these.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's the power for the people.
 
QUEST:  Oh, wow.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is the governing council room.
 
QUEST:  There won't be fiscal restraint in an election year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is why he said perhaps.
 
QUEST:  Why is this art?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Because the artist says it's art.
 
QUEST:  That did nothing. That did nothing.
 
You know something, AI, people are saying I'm too negative.
 
Is it excrement from Weasel?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
QUEST:  It's weasel poop coffee.
 
This is turning into a YouTube moment. I've just got to enjoy it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm not supposed to make that sound.
 
QUEST:  Looks like we're swinging, oh, whoa.
 
We all basically go around each other?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Right. So I have to move around you.
 
QUEST:  Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm moving around you, so look, it's a cosmic dance.
 
QUEST:  See you next year on a plate in a nice restaurant.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  People looking at you can see you enjoy every minute of what you do. And I think that's the essence, really, of not being tired of a job.
 
QUEST:  Richard Quest, CNN, on my way to Buckingham Palace. Drive on.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST:  I may have been on my way to Buckingham Palace, I'm not sure they'd ever let me in. It is that time, it's Christmas, time for Rose (ph). Come and join me. Christmas puzzle, no (ph) season's greetings for you. Come on in now, what would you like? Would you like the cheap or the very cheap?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This one.
 
QUEST:  Oh, well done. God, the very cheap. Ready? Oh, bad luck. But here we go. Here we go. This is so cheap. It hasn't got anything in it. Oh no, this can't be true. No, we can't be that cheap. This is unbelievable -- I mean this, it hasn't got anything in it. Double duty (ph). Oh, gone. All right. That's what's in there. That was really cheap. Well, times are hard. Here we go. That's for you. There we go. Pop the hat on. Let's see how you look. And what are you going to get for -- oh, look at this. Our generosity knows no end. I -- oh, I haven't -- oh, do you know what that is? Do you know what that is?
 <br>[02:55:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  A honey spoon.
 
QUEST:  A honey spoon, well done. Here we go. Rose (ph), I say, I say, I say, what is the difference between a well-dressed man on a bicycle and a poorly dressed (inaudible)? What is the difference between a well dressed man on a bicycle and a poorly dressed man on a unicycle?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I'm not sure, you tell me.
 
QUEST:  A tire.
 
(LAUGH)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Very good, very good.
 
QUEST:  Season's greetings to you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Merry Christmas.
 
QUEST:  Merry Christmas to you and thanks for that. Look, very well done.
 
By the way, did you know that a snowflake has six points? I'm not sure I knew that. And what's more, I'm not sure I care that I knew that.
 
Where is Santa at the moment as we go round the world? Santa is in Fresno, in California, still delivering presents as he's got about another hour or two to go around the world. We (inaudible) got the West Coast, then you've got the Pacific and a couple of islands out there, then you've got Hawaii, and then of course, Santa just about takes a break after that is delivered. So far around 7.5 billion gifts around the world, and there's many more still to come.
 
It has been a very busy year for Santa. And if you take a look now, that's where Santa is at the moment. But if you look around the world, whether it been in Australia where we've had surfing Santas, whether it's other parts of the globe where -- there you go. Bondi Beach is the classic where Santa -- Sydney, Australia where we always manages to go and see. You have a dog in a Santa outfit. I mean, it doesn't get more Santa than that.
 
If you are celebrating -- I think there's something wrong with celebrating in a hot part of the world. I think it has to be cold and it has to be sort of, I think, that man looks naked by the way. We put the banner across the bottom of him. Well, right across him. That's the way our bulletin looks. Thank you for joining us in this hour. I am Richard Quest. "Going Green" is coming up next. I will be back in one hour with more "CNN Newsroom." Can you believe we are so cheap that we have four crackers that actually don't have anything in them at all? I'll be back in an hour.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(GOING GREEN)