Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israeli Strikes In Rafah Kill At Least 5; U.S. And 17 Other Countries Call On Hamas To Release Hostages; Pro-Palestinian Protests Spread At U.S. Universities; Trump Back In New York Court For Hush Money Trial While The Supreme Court Considers Presidential Immunity Case; U.S. Top Diplomat Blinken Visits China For Tough Talks; Blinken Meeting Top Leaders on Final Day of His China Trip; U.N.-WFP Convoy Bringing Aid into Gaza; Aid Flotilla Headed to Gaza without Permission of Israelis; Haitian PM Henry Resigns; Transitional Council Takes Over; South African Liberation Hero, Leadership Sold Out"; Climate Change Made Dubai's Floods 10 percent to 40 percent More Intense; 113k People Register to Enter Venice on First of Charge. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired April 26, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:21] 
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome, everyone. I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company. Coming up here on CNN Newsroom. 
 
Israeli airstrikes hit rougher ahead of an expected ground defensive there and an aid worker employed by Belgium and his families. His family members are killed. 
 
Authorities cracking down harder as pro-Palestinian protests heat up at more campuses across the U.S.. And during court cases for former U.S. President Donald Trump. The Supreme Court hears arguments about his claims of presidential immunity. While his defense tries to chip away at the prosecution's catch and kill theory and his hush money drives.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with Michael Holmes.
 
VAUSE: Israel is explaining its actions after one of its airstrikes in Gaza killed an aid worker his son and other family members. Israel's ambassador to Belgium and Luxembourg says the aid worker and his family were staying at a house in Rafah that he says belonged to a senior Hamas operative, who was the target of Thursday strike. 
 
The ambassador did not say whether the operative was killed nor give his name. After a meeting with Belgium's Foreign Minister, the Israeli diplomat expressed quote, regret over every innocent civilian last. The aid worker Abdallah Nabhan was an employee with Belgium's Federal Development Agency.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JEAN VAN WETTER, CEO, ENABEL: What you see happening in Gaza over the last six months in one of the worst bombing of civilians that you ever seen in the history of the world. We have been calling for them to stop. The International Committee is asking for that to stop. 
 
So a feeling that, yes, we have done all what we could to avoid these deaths but still a feeling that it's unjust, not fair. So in sorrow and anger.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: More than a dozen world leaders are urging Hamas to accept the terms of a ceasefire and hostage deal with Israel. The leaders of 18 countries, including the U.S. and U.K., all signed on to the joint statement as they tried to secure the release of their citizens. 
 
It says in part, quote, The fate of the hostages and the civilian population in Gaza, who were protected under international law is of international concern. We emphasize that the deal on the table to release the hostages would bring an immediate and prolonged ceasefire in Gaza. 
 
The parents of American Israeli hostage Hirsch Goldberg-Polin say they are hopeful the call will lead to the release of their son and all others still held captive by Hamas in Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RACHEL GOLDBERG-POLIN, MOTHER OF HERSH GOLDBERG-POLIN: And the truth is it shouldn't take that. But we're glad that it happened. That people are starting -- that country's leaders are starting to galvanize and say this is absolute insanity. It's been over half a year. These people need to come home. And especially we believe that that would be a real diffusion of such tremendous tension that we have throughout the region right now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JONATHAN POLIN: The key to key statements is it's an amazing milestone. It must continue. It can't be the statement came out and that's it. We need his world leaders to all be leaning in.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Gaza also a deadly place for journalists who have been covering this war, at least 97 of them have been killed since the war began, according to the nonprofit Committee to Protect Journalists. The vast majority of them of course Palestinian, 16 others were injured for more are missing. 25 have been detained. 
 
The group says the report is preliminary. It is still investigating each incident. The committee also looking into allegations about threats against journalists and damage by Israel to their homes and offices. 
 
Maha Hussaini is an award winning journalist and the strategy director of Euro-Med Human Rights Monitor. She joins me now from Central Gaza. 
 
You've done a lot of reporting over the years from Gaza at the moment just how difficult is it for journalists in Gaza to do their job day to day.
 
MAHA HUSSAINI, STRATEGY DIRECTOR, EURO-MED HUMAN RIGHTS MONITOR: Hi, Michael. Thank you for having me. 
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
Well as for the 14 from Gaza it is -- as for the topics we report on I think it is not hard at all to find topics to vote on because in every aspect of the daily life, there is a story of suffering that we feel compelled to report on and to address. 
 
And the thing is that we are part of the story. We are part of the suffering, and we conduct interviews with veterans, we can relate to. We know exactly what they are talking about what they have been through, but in terms of the -- of how to report, how to reach certain areas to read the victims and eyewitnesses, it is really a challenge for all of us. Because every place we go to report from the ground or to document human rights violations can be the last place we go to, given the fact that of course, every place can be targeted at any given moment here in Gaza, especially the places that have been already treated once or twice, and that we usually need to visit to report on it is hard. 
 
And so you're always thinking of how you're going to be able to do the next step, you for your first worried about being killed or targeted while you're in the field documenting and conducting interviews, you finish this sport and you're worried that your laptop or phone would die. 
 
Or after that -- after reporting or doing the interviews, you're worried that you would not be able to ascend the story or to contact your agency of electricity and internet. So yes, it is a struggle in every aspect.
 
HOLMES: Yes, the CPJ I think says it's 73 percent of journalists killed over the last year globally were in Gaza. I mean, people generally run from explosions and gunfire, you and your colleagues run towards those things. Are you worried for your own safety? Why do it why take the risk?
 
HUSSAINI: Well, I've always worried. Actually, I'm extra worried because I work in the field of human rights and I myself document cases of targeting of human rights workers and journalists all the time. And I'm aware of the extent to which journalists and workers at international organizations are being targeted, as I'm always also worried to being detained for my work, or that I will be targeted and bombed along with my family or the people I would be sure -- I am suffering well. 
 
Two weeks ago, for example, I made my first attempt to return to my home Gaza City, along with hundreds of thousands of displaced Palestinians in Gaza. And since I was aware that I would close to Israeli checkpoints in Gaza City, I had -- I was aware, of course that I will be searched. So I had to tear up my business card, delete my Whatsapp conversations and everything that identifies me as a journalist or human rights worker, because I'm -- I know the extent to which these are targeted here in Gaza. 
 
There are concerns all the time when you're interviewing victims. For example, about two months ago, I interviewed victims of Palestinian women, by Israeli forces and who reported on being sexually abused by the forces and being, for example, a threat -- threatened with rape. You hear these stories, you listen to them, we document these stories, and you you're thinking all the time that I might be in their shoes at any given moment. 
 
HOLMES: Yes. I mean, many of us who cover conflicts, I've done it for most of my career, you know, we traveled there, we do the job, and we go home, Gaza is your home. How much more personal does that make covering the war for you and the journalists who are reporting on it, because if they weren't reporting on it, the world would be seeing nothing, but this is where you live, your family and friends are being impacted?
 
HUSSAINI: Exactly, exactly. You don't feel that there is -- this is a profession that you just need to build a profile or get paid and et cetera. Now, this is your duty now. You work because you have a passage to the level to the world, especially in a time when as read (ph) severe years text the entry of U.N. experts and international experts or to investigate human rights violations or even refuses to allow an international journalist to objectively report on the events on the ground. 
 
You feel that you have -- you need to report on these stories that you need to take the role now, especially that you notice and realize how biased might international media outlets be when it comes to the Palestinian cause (ph) and the Palestinian victims are how they tend to dehumanize. For example, Palestinians use a passive voice when they refer to the perpetrators et cetera. 
 
So you have to be brave enough to say what other journalists or what other human rights workers are afraid to say and afraid to take the risk.
 
HOLMES: Right.
 <br>[01:10:06]
 
HUSSAINI: And the fact that the world our work now more than ever, is something that pushes me forward because as I said, no internationals are allowed into Gaza to investigate these violations and so on international bodies, including, for example, the International Court of Justice, the U.N. bodies, et cetera rely mainly on Palestinian human rights defenders and workers on the ground and also journalists.
 
HOLMES: Well, as a fellow journalist, we are in awe of the work that you and your journalistic colleagues are doing in Gaza other ways video and news would not be getting out. Of course, as you pointed out, Israel is blocking people like me from going into Gaza. So the work that's being done by Palestinian journalists is so crucial. 
 
We're out of time. I'm really grateful. Maha Hussaini in Gaza, thanks so much. Keep up the great work. 
 
HUSSAIN: Thank you. 
 
HOLMES: While there is some progress reported in the standoff between Columbia University officials and pro-Palestinian protesters, school authorities say talks are continuing with the student organizers to dismantle their encampment and disperse. 
 
Meanwhile, protests are expanding across the U.S. with law enforcement officers moving on demonstrators at universities in places like Georgia, New Jersey, California, several other states as well. CNN's Nick Watt with more from Los Angeles.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK WATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Pepper balls fired and a lot of muscles deployed against protesters at Emory in Atlanta. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It was an overwhelming amount of force against a group of college students.
 
WATT (voice-over): Two professors among those arrested.
 
CAROLINE FOHLIN, EMORY UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR: I saw a large person seemingly assaulting one of our students, and that's upsetting.
 
WATT (voice-over): The administration blames trespassers for the tents and the unrest. These individuals are not members of our community. They are activists attempting to disrupt our university. Emory does not tolerate vandalism or other criminal activity on campus. 
 
This movement is mushrooming a brand new protest at Princeton.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Popular university for Gaza. We are making history.
 
WATT (voice-over): A protest encampment popped up at UCLA. After the violence and standoff across town at USC that led to nearly 100 arrests, this private university is closed to the public and USC just canceled their commencement mainstage event scheduled for May 10, which usually draws 65,000 people.
 
In Boston at Northeastern University, police encircled the protest then backed off. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has called Columbia's decision to call in the NYPD horrific on X. Columbia decided to hold its students accountable to the laws of the school. The NYPD Chief of Patrol replied, maybe you should walk around Columbia and NYU and listen to their remarks of pure hatred. 
 
Fellow representative Ilhan Omar did visit Colombia with her daughter who's been arrested and suspended during these protests, which kick started this movement. Talks with protesters continue. If they fail, say Columbia administrators, they will have to consider options for restoring come to campus. WATT: Here at UCLA a growing but peaceful protest. I think they've learned from what happened at USC where security and the police went in pretty heavy. Here at UCLA, almost zero visible police or security presence whatsoever. 
 
What's a bit odd though, is even if you're a student here right now, you can't walk across your campus because the protesters have put a barricade up around their encampment and you got to register with them and wear a mask before they'll let you in. Media not allowed in and they're even trying to stop photo journalists from filming from outside in. Nick Watt, CNN on the UCLA campus in Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Now to double courtroom drama for Donald Trump huge developments playing out in both his hush money case and at the U.S. Supreme Court, where the former U.S. president's legal team made an historic push to get him absolute immunity. 
 
Back in New York, the former publisher of the National Enquirer tabloid returned to the witness stand to reveal secrets about the so called catch and kill deals involving a former porn star and a Playboy Playmate. David Pecker explaining how he brokered the agreement to purchase model Karen McDougal story and about an alleged affair with Trump but said he refused to do the same for Stormy Daniels.
 <br>[01:15:04]
 
And that Trump's former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen handle that payment instead. After leaving court, Trump's -- Trump once again railing against the whole trial.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Today was breathtaking in this room you saw what went on, it was breathtaking, and amazing testimony. This is a trial that should have never happened. This is a case that should have never been filed. And it was really an incredible, an incredible day, open your eyes. And we can't let this continue to happen to our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Meanwhile, the U.S. Supreme Court is signaling that it will reject Trump's claims that he and all presidents should enjoy absolute immunity. But the justices could still give him a huge boost by potentially delaying Special Counsel Jack Smith's selection subversion trial. CNN's Paula Reid with the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The high court hearing perhaps its most consequential case of the year with a former President Trump gets immunity from criminal prosecution for acts committed while in office. D John Sauer arguing for Trump claiming without immunity, there can be no presidency as we know it. DEAN SAUER, DONALD TRUMP LAWYER: If a president can be charged, put on trial and imprisoned for his most controversial decisions as soon as he leaves office, that looming threat will distort the president's decision making precisely when bold and fearless action is most needed. 
 
REID (voice-over): Michael Dreeben, arguing for special counsel Jack Smith countered, claiming that absolute immunity would allow a president to commit any and all crimes that will.
 
MICHAEL DREEBEN, JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ATTORNEY: His novel theory would immunize former presidents for criminal liability for bribery, treason, sedition, murder, and here conspiring to use fraud to overturn the results of an election and perpetuate himself in power.
 
REID (voice-over): The justices pressing both litigants about when a president can't be prosecuted. And posing several scenarios.
 
ELENA KAGAN, ASSOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES: Isn't an official act. 
 
SAUER: If it's an official act --
 
KAGAN: Is it an official act?
 
SAUER: On the way you've described that hypothetical, it could well be.
 
REID (voice-over): Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson raising concerns about presidential power without limits.
 
KATANJI BROWN JACKSON, ASSOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES: You seem to be worried about the President being chilled. I think that we would have a really significant opposite problem if the president wasn't chilled. I'm trying to understand what the disincentive is from turning the Oval Office into, you know, the seat of criminal activity in this country.
 
REID (voice-over): And asking why then did former president Nixon need a pardon after he left office?
 
JACKSON: What was up with the pardon for President Nixon? If everybody thought that presidents couldn't be prosecuted, then what was that about?
 
REID (voice-over): Justice Amy Coney Barrett, who could be a swing vote that decides the case, getting Trump's attorney to concede that some of Trump's alleged actions were not part of his duties as president and would not be protected under an immunity claim.
 
AMY CONEY BARRETT, ASSOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES: I want to know if you agree or disagree about the characterization of these acts as private, petitioner turned to a private attorney who was willing to spread knowingly false claims of election fraud to spearhead his challenges to the election results private? SAUER: As alleged, I mean we dispute the allegation but the sounds private.
 
REID (voice-over): Other justices seemed wary of opening the door to prosecuting future presidents after leaving office.
 
NEIL GORSUCH, ASSOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'm not concerned about this case. But I am concerned about future uses of the criminal law to target political opponents based on accusations about their motives. 
 
SAMUEL ALITO, ASSOCIATE JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES: Will that not lead us into a cycle that destabilizes the functioning of our country as a democracy and we can look around the world and find countries where we have seen this process where the loser gets thrown in jail.
 
REID (voice-over): Paula Reid, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Norm Eisen is a CNN legal analyst and former House Judiciary special counsel in Trump's first impeachment trial. Good to see you, Norm. I wonder what's your read from what you heard today? Can you see a narrow decision that doesn't fully resolve the question of presidential immunity? What might that look like?
 
NORM EISEN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: The case is on the knife's edge. Michael, it could go one of two ways. There's clearly an agreement among the members of the court that they're not going to grant Trump's full and expansive desire for absolute immunity. 
 
The Liberals on the court, the three liberal justices plus Amy Coney Barrett and possibly the Chief Justice John Roberts, who I know well, could coalesce around slimming down the case and saying as long as Jack Smith concentrates on purely private conduct.
 <br>[01:20:10]
 
And Amy Coney Barrett, although she's a conservative got concessions that a great deal of the indictment is about private conduct, then the case can proceed. Or you could have a decision where a test is formulated of some level of immunity and a remand to the lower court to apply that test. 
 
The former contingency could allow a trial to take place. We have a saying in the lost limb to win. They could slim down the case and try Trump for things like -- as a political candidate, ordering his political lawyers and communications advisors to devise false electoral slates. If they go that way, we could still get a trial. 
 
HOLMES: Right. But I mean, we're not likely to hear from the Supreme Court back perhaps till June, if they then do send it back to the lower courts, presumably, that delays it till after the election and Trump wins. And as President, he can make it go away, can't he then? EISEN: If he wins, of course, as you know better than I because you track these things. It's an extremely close race. But if he is successful, then he can order his Department of Justice to dismiss the case. Justice Gorsuch today, my law school classmate. Gorsuch raised the issue of self-pardons, Trump could try that we would see if the courts would uphold it. So there's a variety of ways for Donald Trump to dispose of the case, if he becomes president.
 
HOLMES: It's interesting because, you know, as an observer, and we see the polls as well, the court is seen by many Americans as political, I mean, conservative judges, liberal justices, if they do send it back to the lower courts, you know, avoiding a pre-election trial and avoiding making a decision on immunity, is that damaging to the political process to not have a legal resolution to that core issue of presidential immunity?
 
EISEN: It is terribly damaging to the political process, the American voters have a right to know if a candidate to be restored to the presidency, abused the awesome powers of that office, the last time he was in the White House, before they vote on him again. 
 
So it would damage our political process deprive voters of essential information and frankly, further delegitimize the Supreme Court, which used to be a very respected institution, and now has suffered severe hemorrhaging in confidence among Americans.
 
HOLMES: You know, in all your years, you know, covering the legal system being in the legal system, being around the political side of the legal system as well. How unprecedented are these things? I mean, this case in terms of what's at stake and the long lasting impacts? I mean, certainly, you know, a president has never opposed his loss of way this former president did but long lasting impact wrestling on this, right?
 
EISEN: Absolutely profound historical consequences. You need to begin by looking back in almost two and a half centuries. We've never had to ask this question, because we've never had a president criminally charged before. Here, you have four separate cases in which the President is a defendant. 
 
So certainly, it's a landmark in our legal system, and depending how they decide it will have profound future impacts. If they were to go in favor of absolute immunity, that would transform the presidency into a dictatorship. It would allow presidents of either party to, as came out in oral argument, even order official assassination using government assets like SEAL Team Six and have an argument they can't be prosecuted. That can't be the law. 
 
The problem is even if the Supreme Court comes to the right answer, if they take too long to do it, it will as you know, to cloak Donald Trump and impunity should he be reelected. He will be able to escape responsibility. So delay is also a big problem here.
 
HOLMES: Yes, absolutely. Great point. Norm Eisen, always a pleasure. Good to see you.
 
EISEN: Great to see you. Thanks for having me back, Michael.
 
HOLMES: Some tough negotiations could be in the cards for the top U.S. diplomat as he visits China. Still ahead, we'll go live to Hong Kong and our Kristie Lu Stout to keep track of Anthony Blinken talks in Beijing.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:27:06]
 
HOLMES: U.S. Secretary of State is holding high level meetings on the final day of his trip to China. Antony Blinken meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Beijing several hours ago. And a separate meeting with President Xi Jingping could happen later Friday. 
 
Blinken telling his Chinese counterpart he would not hold anything back about U.S. differences with China. For more, Kristie Lu Stout is standing by in Hong Kong. Good to see Kristie. 
 
So the top diplomat for America meeting with China's Foreign Minister, can these talks actually deliver anything?
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, these are tough talks. The relationship between these two powers is at a crossroads and Wang Yi earlier delivered a warning to America's top diplomat to not step on China's red lines. 
 
Look, Blinken is in China. He comes at a sensitive time right on the heels of President Biden signing a bill to counter China's military might and another bill that could ban TikTok in the U.S.. Blinken is back in China to further shore up the relationship expressed strong concerns about China's support for Russia as well as Chinese overcapacity. 
 
And this morning he met with China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi, a working lunch is currently underway. And then at 10:40 p.m. local time, Blinken will be meeting with China's Minister of Public Security.
 
Now earlier today we heard from Wang Yi and he addressed the U.S.- China relationship. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WANG YI, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): Should China the United States Keep to the right direction of moving forward with stability for return to a downward spiral. This is a major question before our two countries and tests our sincerity and ability.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LU STOUT: Wang Yi there saying that America and China has a choice, stability or a downward spiral. Now last year, Blinken visited China to stabilize relations. That was a team of time of peak tension. And since then, you know, the friction has eased. But there's still a long list of unresolved issues. Let's bring up just some of them for you. And it includes, you know,
 
 China's backwards support of Russia and the war in Ukraine. China's assertions of sovereignty in the South China Sea. America's forced divestment of TikTok the fate and future of Taiwan human rights the flow of fentanyl precursor chemicals, as well as trade and Chinese overcapacity.
 
Now on the issue of trade, on Thursday, Shanghai, Blinken raised concerns about trade while meeting with the city's top official. You know, this visit comes right after Joe Biden, President Xi Jinping held talks in April the first chat since their November Summit whether Blinken will meet with Xi this afternoon remains to be seen. Back to you. 
 
HOLMES: You will be keeping an eye on it for us. Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong. Appreciate it. 
 
A humanitarian aid flotilla heading to Gaza 14 years after Israeli forces attacked another boat from the same group and 10 people died.
 <br>[01:30:02]
 
Ahead on CNN, why they're willing to take the risk again.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Welcome back. 
 
You're watching CNN NEWSROOM with me Michael Holmes. 
 
Desperately needed ammunition now headed to Ukraine after the U.S. approved a new batch of military aid for Kyiv. A senior U.S. defense official says the ammunition has been prepositioned in Europe and it's rapidly being shipped into Ukraine. 
 
In addition to that, Kyiv's allies will also look into the possibility of sending more Patriot Air Defense Systems. The official says that topic will be discussed at Friday's virtual meeting of the Ukraine contact group. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAJ. GEN. PATRICK RYDER, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: The meeting will commemorate the two-year anniversary of the first contact group following Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine in February, 2022. 
 
Over the past two years, the contact group has shown its unity and resolve as evidenced by the continuing support and donations made by our international partners and allies. Additionally, the contact group continues its work with Ukraine to help it move towards development of a robust, efficient, and self-reliant defense industry. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The Ukraine contact group includes more than 50 countries which are providing military support for Kyiv. Well as the war in Gaza approaches the seven-month mark, the humanitarian suffering just gets worse and worse by the day. The Pentagon says the U.S. has started construction of a temporary pier intended to help deliver aid to Gaza. 
 
Israel accuses Palestinian militants meanwhile of firing mortars at the site on Wednesday as a United Nations team was visiting.
 
CNN cannot independently confirm that claim, however.
 
Meanwhile, new CNN video does show a U.N. and World Food Programme convoy carrying vital supplies including food, medicine and fuel into northern Gaza on Thursday. The head of the WFP Palestinian effort says although 2,000 tons of food were delivered in the past month, it is only a fraction of what is actually needed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW HOLLINGWORTH, DIRECTOR, WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME PALESTINE: We need to be providing a lot more food assistance into Gaza City and the north. 
 
That's why we're trying to run these convoys every single day through every single route that is open to us. And we'll be continuing this mission today, tomorrow, the next day, every day, we can.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[01:34:55]
 
HOLMES: Earlier this week an aid flotilla left Istanbul, headed for Gaza. The organizers are the same ones who set up a 2010 mission where ten people were killed by Israeli troops in international waters. 
 
And despite not having permission from the Israelis, they insist they will try to reach shore. 
 
Our Scott McLean talked to the organizers ahead of the journey. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: At a port in southern Turkey, this cargo ship is being loaded with aid that may well never be delivered. The ship will be part of a small flotilla soon bound for Gaza along with this ship being tuned up in Istanbul. Neither have permission from Israel to enter the blockaded Gaza strip. 
 
This is a passenger ferry. It's not meant to carry aid, its meant to carry people. And there will be hundreds of them on board mostly activists because as much as this is about sending aid to Gaza, it is also very clearly about sending a political message. 
 
ANN WRIGHT, FREEDOM FLOTILLA COALITION SPOKESPERSON: And if we can get our little chip in, it will be a drop in the bucket of what's needed, but hopefully it will -- it will put pressure on other countries to put pressure on Israel, and it could be diplomatic isolation, economic isolation, to make them stop this genocide.
 
MCLEAN: Ann Wright is a former American soldier and diplomat turned pro Palestinian activist and was on board an ill-fated aid flotilla to Gaza in 2010. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mavi Marmara (ph), you are approaching an area of hostilities, which is under naval blockade.
 
MCLEAN: The ships were boarded by Israeli troops in international waters. 
 
And on the Mavi Marmara carrying hundreds of international activists and journalists, soldiers were greeted by slingshots and with bars and chairs after rappelling down onto the deck. 
 
The resistance was futile. We have -- one person has just been hit in the head by a bullet. I was at the boat next to them and we heard the shots hitting the Mavi Marmara. And we saw people falling. 
 
Nobody expected that. We didn't expect that the Israelis would start killing people and killing ten of them.
 
MCLEAN: Nine Turks and an American were killed. Israel initially defended the deadly raid, but then years later apologized and paid a multimillion-dollar settlement to the victims' families.
 
One of the victims was Genji Songur whose son Ismail, has spent the last six months organizing this latest effort.
 
Why are you doing this again? 
 
ISMAIL SONGUR, PRESIDENT, MAVI MARMARA ASSOCIATION: That's very simple. to break the siege of Gaza. It's not because of my father. right now we're standing for the children of Gaza.
 
According to Islam if a person is dying while going for the good mission is becoming a shahid, a martyr. That's why it is not a kind of loss for us. It's kind of, you know, gain for us.
 
MCLEAN: The flotilla has not been coordinated with the Israelis nor is it attempting to use the established maritime corridor to Gaza used by the World Central Kitchen before 7 of its staff were killed by Israeli strikes.
 
Flotilla organizers say they will not allow Israel or any western country to inspect the cargo. Israel declined to comment. 
 
SONGUR: We assured that Israel is not authority in the region to check our humanitarian aids. That's why it's very clear for us. We have the green lights from the international conscience to move with the flotilla. 
 
MCLEAN: And if they block you.
 
SONGUR: That's the problem of the state. We will go there. 
 
If Israel tried to block it again, you know, same or similar scenario can happen in the Middle East.
 
MCLEAN: Scott McLean, CNN -- Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Embattled Haitian Prime Minister Ariel Henry announced his resignation on Thursday saying that given the current state of affairs, the time was ripe for him to step down. Since February an alliance of gangs has created chaos in Haiti's capital. 
 
A transitional council is working to form a new government. It will exercise some presidential powers until a new president elect is inaugurated, which must take place no later than February 7, 2026. 
 
Earlier I spoke with Jacqueline Charles, the Caribbean correspondent for the Miami Herald. And asked her about the next steps for Haiti.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JACQUELINE CHARLES, CARIBBEAN CORRESPONDENT, "MIAMI HERALD": Well, the next step is that the certain voting members of this nine-member group has to choose a president along them or a coordinator, chairman, depending on you speak to. 
 
And then after that, they have a difficult task of finding a new prime minister to replace Henry. Now one of the council members said that they hope to have that done by the 1st of May. We will see. 
 
I mean, it's taken them a while to get to where they are now more than a month so, you know, that might be a little bit optimistic. 
 <br>[01:39:51]
 
CHARLES: But everybody's watching to see who will be the next prime minister because in Haiti's political structures, it's actually the prime minister who runs the day to day.
 
HOLMES: Right. You tweeted earlier about this ceremony for the council, and I'll just quote you. You said, quote, "What's interesting is who he is missing in the room as perhaps who is present." 
 
I'm just curious what you meant by that.
 
CHARLES: Well, there are a couple of interesting things about this ceremony. First, let's talk about the location. You know, members of the council told all of us in the media that they were not going to have to go to the presidential palace, even though they wanted to. But when they did a walk through, there are gunshots. So they did here and they were, you know, hoping not to get shot. 
 
Well, it turns out that they did have sort of a secret ceremony at the palace early in the morning. And then they went over to the public location where members of the diplomatic corps were invited. 
 
And so the interesting thing about that is a number of individuals, some of whom have been sanctioned, some of whom we have not heard from. No well-known political players, you know, basically had been under the radar. Well, they came out. 
 
The other interesting thing is that some of individuals who have -- who represents the sectors of the political parties that nominated individual (INAUDIBLE) on this, they were not present. 
 
Now why they were not there we're still trying to figure out, but we do have to give them a little bit of grace and understand that this remains a very difficult period in Haiti. 
 
I mean they took the oath of office literally under gunshots.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: That was the Caribbean correspondent for the "Miami Herald", Jacqueline Charles speaking with me last hour.
 
Saturday marks 30 years since the historic election that would bring Nelson Mandela to power in post-apartheid South Africa. However, with inequality at an all-time high and crime and corruption running rampant, the once hopeful promise of democracy seems to be losing its luster ahead of next month's critical elections.
 
CNN's David McKenzie reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Liberation icon, Seth Mazibuko lived the painful history of this country. 
 
SETH MAZIBUKO, SOUTH AFRICAN LIBERATION ICON: Students are coming from that direction and police are coming from that direction. 
 
That morning of June 16, 1976 this was when the students who are marching peacefully, they were raising their hands and fingers of peace. They were given bullets.
 
MCKENZIE: Protesting the apartheid state and its racist education system. 
 
MAZIBUKO: I still feel guilty today that I lead students and children out of the classroom to be killed.
 
MCKENZIE: Their sacrifice and the sacrifices of later generations help toppled the violent apartheid state, birthing a peaceful democratic South Africa, the rainbow nation where everyone can vote. But for Mazibuko, 30 years on the rainbow has faded.
 
Has the leadership of this country respected the sacrifices that you've made.
 
MAZIBUKO: Sold out.
 
MCKENZIE: Sold out. 
 
MAZIBUKO: Many of the leaders that were supposed to be leading, they left this community. They left the very people that they are fighting for.
 
MCKENZIE: When thousands of students were bravely marching down these streets, they were fighting for a better future for South Africa. But decades later, here's a staggering statistic. More than 80 percent of Great Falls cannot read.
 
Has it gotten worse over the 18 years of you being at the school? 
 
PRINCE MULWELA, TEACHER, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: Yes, it's becoming worse and worse. 
 
MCKENZIE: At Morris Isaacson High School, famous for its role in '76 teachers like Prince Mulwela say that jobs in education are given to the politically-connected and corruption is rife.
 
Primary students now come to his classes un prepared, he says. Corruption watchdogs call it a silent crisis. 
 
MULWELA: We're living in a world in South Africa where it's all about politics. Everything has been politicized. So the education system is also been politicized. 
 
So that is the reason why, probably why it's raising such problems.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I feel being in the school because then I get to learn about history. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Some put their lives in danger for better future, for better education.
 
MCKENZIE: I spoke to two leading students at Morris Isaacson. They are proud of their school, but acutely aware of the challenges that lie ahead. 
 
Is there enough opportunity for young people like yourselves in this country.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Right now? No. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's going to be a struggle. Yes and it is scary for us to be sitting at home and doing nothing.
 <br>[01:44:52]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Especially when you know that you're going to university for so long and you have a degree, the qualification, but you're still struggling to get a job because of the unemployment rates.
 
MCKENZIE: Those rates are some of the world's highest, an uncertain future despite the bitter struggles of the past.
 
David McKenzie, CNN -- Soweto.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) HOLMES: Still to come on the program, this month's deadly floods in Dubai were significantly more intense because of, you guessed it, climate change. Details of a new scientific study of the severe weather when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Scores of people are dead in floods triggered by torrential rains in east Africa. 
 
In Tanzania, the prime minister says 155 people are being killed, upwards of 200,000 affected, telling lawmakers that heavy El Nino rains, strong winds and landslides are to blame.
 
In Kenya, the U.N. says at least 32 people have been killed. Kenya has been coping with heavy rain since march, but downpours intensified over the past week leading to flooding that has affected more than 100,000 people.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRACSIDIS MUKOLA, FLOODING VICTIM: The situation was so bad. We don't know what to do because the floods have filled the houses to roof level.
 
We couldn't escape. Women died, children have been swept away by the floods. We don't know what to do. 
 
KENNEDY ONYANGO, FLOODING VICTIM: I have come back to see what I can salvage. But there's nothing left. Everything was swept away by the floods since I didn't take anything with me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Contaminated floodwaters has left some people ill in the United Arab Emirates. The region experienced record rainfall just over a week ago, you might remember the extraordinary video. 
 
The health ministry says the limited number of cases showed symptoms of coming into contact with "mixed water" as they put it. Those affected have been discharged from the hospital. A medical specialist explain why the huge downpour poses such a health risk.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EMAN ALABAR, INTERNAL MEDICINE SPECIALIST, BURJEEL HOSPITAL: This flood was exceptional. Such accumulations of rain do not occur every year, possibly happening once every few decades or years. 
 
This water could be contaminated with waste from the streets and might mix with sewage in certain uncontrolled areas, potentially leading to some contaminations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Well, the climate crisis made the deadly floods in Dubai and Oman this month up to four times more intense than they would have been without climate change. That's the conclusion of a team of scientists and researchers who analyzed the disaster.
 
Here's CNN's Chad Myers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Science has proven that warmer air holds more humidity than colder air. In the extremes, the Tropics are more muggy than the North Pole. Yes, that's the extreme. 
 <br>[01:49:47]
 
MYERS: But we know that the earth has warmed 1.2 degrees Celsius, almost two degrees Fahrenheit from where we were pre-industrial levels when we started burning fossil fuel. 
 
But how much did that 1.2 affect those floods in Dubai? Well, the WorldWeatherAttribution.org Society says that that was 10 to 40 percent worse when they flood than it would have been without that 1.2. 
 
Now, we know, of course, there's other factors going on out here, that it is strongly evident that were going to get more drought. We're going to get more floods. We're going to get coastal flooding with a rising sea level. And we're also going to get more heat waves, of course.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Chad Myers there. 
 
Well, still to come fasten your seat belts, love in the air in the skies over Poland. The proposal at 35,000 feet, after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: 113,000 people registered to enter Venice in Italy on the first day of the city's new tourist fee. The 5-euro admission charge is meant to keep tourists to a minimum on the busiest days. 
 
CNN's Barbie Nadeau with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Around 300 people took part in protest against the city of Venice's new entrance fee, which kicks off on Thursday, the day Italy celebrates its liberation from fascism.
 
All visitors to the city on 29 designated holidays and busy summer weekends until mid-July will have to reserve their entrance ticket online and show a QR code to attendants at makeshift gates leading into the city. 
 
Those who are staying in hotels or who live in Venice, will get in free while day trippers and cruise ship passengers will have to pay a 5-euro tour tax. 
 
Around 20 million people visit the city of Venice each year. Two thirds of them do not spend the night according to the Venice Tourism Board. There is no cap on the number of reservations the city will take, but the plan is meant to dissuade people from visiting Venice on the busiest tourist days. 
 
Those against this say it has turned Venice into an amusement park. Those who supported say it might make people think twice about visiting the city on peak tourist days. 
 
The mayor of Venice says the plan is an experiment, and that other cities with high tourism are watching to see if it works.
 
Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN -- Rome.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: After a decade of delays and setbacks, Boeing is poised to put its first astronauts into space. NASA says, the company's Starliner spacecraft could make its inaugural crewed launch as early as May the 6th, carrying two astronauts to the International Space Station. It was 2014 when NASA awarded Boeing and SpaceX contracts to make commercial trips to the ISS ss and Boeing was the odds-on favorite to get there first. 
 
But a number of problems kept the Starliner on the ground even as SpaceX sent astronauts to the ISS on board its Crew Dragon more than three years ago.
 
Well, it's not exactly the mile-high club, but you could call it love at 35,000 feet. It's not every day you hear a pilot make an announcement like this one. 
 
CNNs Jeanne Moos with the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is your captain speaking to the woman he loves. Prepare for turbulence, the emotional kind. 
 
CONRAD HANZ, PILOT: On today's flight, there is a very special person.
 <br>[01:54:43]
 
MOOS: LOT Polish Airlines pilot Conrad Hanz (ph) was referring to his flight attendant girlfriend Paula. 
 
A year-and-a-half ago -- 
 
HANZ: I met the most wonderful person that completely changed my life.
 
MOOS: -- met her on a flight to Krakow, Poland. So on a similar flight to Krakow, the pilot with eyes brimming let fly the question.
 
HANZ: You are my greatest dream come true. This is why I have to ask you a favor, honey. Will you marry me?
 
MOOS: It had all the trappings of a rom-com.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Will you marry me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, yes, yes. She will marry you. 
 
MOOS: And yes, the flight attendant will marry the pilot. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't if this is the right hand for this.
 
MOOS: In the golden age of flying, flight attendants once part of the waters -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I should have been a pilot.
 
HANZ: She said yes.
 
MOOS: LOT Polish Airlines posted the video on Facebook. 
 
Commenters posted romantic gifs. "Love is in the air". Although the plane was actually on the ground for the entire proposal but these two are walking on clouds with or without the airplane.
 
Jeanne Moos, CNN -- New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: She was moving up the aisle, wasn't she?
 
Well, music fans have a chance to own a piece of rock history soon as a guitar played by the Beatles goes up for auction. 
 
That's the famous hootenanny guitar used by the band in 1965. It was featured in recordings and performances of salt owns including "Help", "It's Only Love" and "You've Got to Hide Your Love Away", which you just heard there.
 
The acoustic 12-string was all but forgotten in an attic for decades. But Julien's Auction House says it's been fully restored and is expected to set a world record for the most expensive Beatles guitar when it hits the auction block in New York in late May.
 
Thanks for watching, spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes.
 
CNN NEWSROOM continues with my friend and colleague, Kim Brunhuber, next.
 <br>[01:57:17]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)