Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: CNN International: Israel-Hezbollah Ceasefire Deal in Effect in Lebanon; Trump Team Signs Transition Agreement with White House; Fighting Grinds on as War Nears Three-Year Mark; Fears of New U.S. Trade War with Mexico & Canada; Lebanon Begins Reinforcing Army Presence in the South. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired November 27, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this is the scene entire in Lebanon, where a ceasefire is holding between Lebanon and Hezbollah, at 
 
 least for now. It is 04:00 p.m. there. It is 06:00 p.m. here in Abu Dhabi. I'm Becky Anderson, you're watching "Connect the World". It's good to have 
 
 you on board.
 
Also coming up. Ukrainian troops, outgunned and outnumbered, are trying to stop Russian advances in the south using drones. Donald Trump's tariffs may 
 
 be targeted at Canada and Mexico, but how would they impact the American car industry? More on that is coming up.
 
And heading home for the holidays. Tens of millions of Americans are on the move ahead of Thanksgiving. The stock market in New York will open about 30 
 
 minutes from now. The picture doesn't look too bright, as you can see from the indications from the futures markets.
 
All very mixed, trade tariff jitters putting pressure on car stocks. On Tuesday, we will return to New York for the opening of those markets in 
 
 half an hour's time, at 09:30. Well, the Israel Hezbollah ceasefire is in force, but tensions are high and Israeli troops remain deployed in 
 
 positions in southern Lebanon warning residents displaced by the fighting in Israel not to return home.
 
Well, the U.S. backed truce went into effect 12 hours ago after Israel's security cabinet voted 10 to 1 to approve it. It ends for now, at least 
 
 fighting set off by the war in Gaza that has killed thousands in Lebanon and dozens in Israel. Some in Beirut, waved Hezbollah flags in celebration, 
 
 while cars with displaced residents clogged roads heading south despite those warnings to wait.
 
The deal calls for a 60 day pause in hostilities, the aim being to create conditions for a permanent peace. Well over that time period, Israel will 
 
 withdraw from southern Lebanon and Hezbollah fighters are to retreat 40 kilometers from the border. The Lebanese army and U.N. peacekeeping forces 
 
 will be tasked with enforcing the truce.
 
Whether or not it will hold, is unclear. Already Israeli troops opened fire and what they say were vehicles approaching a restricted area. Well, 
 
 Israel's Prime Minister says his military will respond forcefully if Hezbollah violates the agreement and attempts to rearm.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden vowed Hezbollah will no longer threaten Israel's security as he announced the ceasefire on Tuesday. On CNN today, the 
 
 president's national security adviser talked about the expectations in the weeks and months ahead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Implementation is going to be key, and that means ensuring that Hezbollah, the terrorist group, cannot 
 
 rebuild its terror infrastructure in southern Lebanon, and that the Lebanese Armed Forces do their job in filling in the security vacuum in 
 
 southern Lebanon, rather than Hezbollah.
 
The United States, along with France and other countries, are committed to ensuring this deal is implemented effectively. And we're going to take 
 
 steps until the time comes when we can all breathe easy and say, yes, this is actually in effect. It is going to stick. It is going to work, but day 
 
 in, day out, we are going to make sure that we're doing everything to see to it that the terms of this agreement are enforced.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: We've got a lot to unpack here. Nic Robertson connecting us this hour from Jerusalem. Stephen Collinson is in Washington. Nic, let me start 
 
 with you on the ground, Netanyahu listed three reasons for the ceasefire, turning the focus on Iran, letting his Israeli forces recuperate, and 
 
 allowing the supply of weapons and the isolation of Hamas.
 
And he added that Israel would resume attacks if Hezbollah violated the agreement. What do you make of the reasons for Israel signing off on this 
 
 deal? And what are the expectations now on the ground going forward?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: You know, Israel has always made the case that it's fighting wars on seven fronts Iran being 
 
 behind the proxies and being one of those fronts in of itself. The narrative from Israel has always been that the root of the problems is 
 
 Iran. And if you sort of take the third reason that Hezbollah decided to delink its fight with the fight in Gaza.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
That sort of seems to indicate that one part of this threat, one part of the front, could be dealt with, but the whole front, dealing with all, as 
 
 Israel calls it, the tentacles of terror coming from Iran, is something that they now want to focus on. And we just heard from the defense minister 
 
 today saying that they've captured weapons in the occupied West Bank in the City of Jenin.
 
They say these weapons had come from Iran, mines designed the sort of thing designed to target troops as they walk down a street or drive down a 
 
 street, mortars, rockets, automatic weapons, hunting weapons, sniper rifles, in effect, some of the things they say have been supplied there.
 
And Israel is really beginning to focus on the occupied West Bank in terms of sort of doing what some of the right wingers want to do, which is annex 
 
 more of the right of the West Bank, and with the defense minister, just yesterday, spoke about accelerating the deployment and installation of more 
 
 security barriers throughout the West Bank.
 
So, I think this focus park for conflict with Hezbollah, focus on the West Bank and the narrative that Iran is destabilizing, arming militia groups 
 
 like Hamas there, like the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and focus on Iran and the same time, it achieves again, another goal of elements of Netanyahu 
 
 government, which is to take more control of the West Bank.
 
ANDERSON: Let me bring you in, Stephen here, because the White House hailing this agreement in the waning days of the Biden Administration. Joe 
 
 Biden announcing this ceasefire late on Tuesday. He and they will see this as a win, but the legacy remains a pretty disastrous approach to this 
 
 region, does it not with no end in sight on Gaza and, of course, no hostage deal at this point?
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER: Yeah, this came after a year or more of fruitless diplomacy. Antony Blinken, the Secretary of State 
 
 has been in the Middle East almost constantly since October 7th last year. That said it was clear that the United States was important in getting the 
 
 details into this deal that got it over the line.
 
But to me, it looks more like the conditions on the ground, the incentives for each of the parties changed and got towards this deal. Israel has said 
 
 its forces are tired. They need a break. Hezbollah has been completely decimated. They need a break. So that changed.
 
It wasn't something that the U.S. did that then changed the dynamics of this. So, the White House, when it's talking about. Now, we want to jump 
 
 from this to try and get a ceasefire in Gaza. It's clearly not going to be as simple as that. We have the looming arrival of Donald Trump in seven 
 
 weeks.
 
It seems just as likely that, as Nic was saying, Israel may push on in other theaters than rather than look necessary to tone this down right 
 
 away, because it's pretty clear that Trump doesn't want massive disruption taking place in the Middle East when he takes office.
 
So, while the White House is talking about legacy hunting, the president even mentioned this normalization deal between the Saudis and Israel that 
 
 he thought was possible in the next seven weeks. That seems hugely far- fetched given the conditions.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, absolutely. We are yet to see any clear sort of visible path to a Palestinian state. That is the condition, the cost, as it were, 
 
 as far as the Saudis are now concerned, and that cost has gone up significantly since October the seventh. And we still don't have the 
 
 Israeli Prime Minister or his coalition talking even about the Palestinians, never mind a Palestinian state.
 
Nic, we've heard from Jake Sullivan today. We had a little of what he said earlier on. He's also talking about the prospects for a ceasefire in Gaza. 
 
 Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULLIVAN: Since the beginning of this conflict, Hezbollah linked its fight against Israel to the fight that Hamas was having with Israel from Gaza, 
 
 and it said, we won't stop until the war in Gaza ends. That link has now been broken, which means Hamas is isolated. Hamas is now under pressure, 
 
 and all lies, not just from the U.S. and Israel, but the rest of the world are going to turn to Hamas.
 
And so, there is now new found opportunity and possibility to drive forward a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza, but I'm not going to stand here and 
 
 make any predictions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
ANDERSON: And another U.S. official told me recently that a deal with Hezbollah would send a signal to Hamas, Nic, that Israel and its partners 
 
 will do their utmost to do a deal that brings back their hostages. Quote, this U.S. official. If we get a Lebanon deal, we are going to come down 
 
 like a ton of bricks on Hamas, turning this military success into a strategic success.
 
Just how likely is that? I know that we've had some reporting that Hamas, at least in the wake of this deal, has reached out to the erstwhile 
 
 mediators on a ceasefire deal and hostage deal. Do we have any more details on that?
 
ROBERTSON: Yeah, Hamas has said, look, we've paid attention and we've seen what's happened in Lebanon. So, they fully understand that Hezbollah has 
 
 taken a position that delinks them from the support of Hamas. So that's a psychological blow. And absolutely, in a situation where they already feel 
 
 incredibly isolated.
 
This will only heighten that sense of isolation, but they're coping with it in their way of the elements that remain continue to fight back against 
 
 Israeli forces. The other thing that Hamas is saying is that they will work with efforts towards a ceasefire, the United States.
 
Joe Biden, last night, President Joe Biden said that he would work with Turkey, bringing in a new mediator, or heightening the relevance and the 
 
 role of Turkey as a mediator with Hamas respecting the fact that it does appear that some Hamas leaders are spending more time in Turkey than they 
 
 were.
 
Not that there are many of them left now, Qatar as well. He said the United States will work within Israel. Qatar sort of recused itself from playing a 
 
 significant role as a mediator. I think it feels very battered and bruised and abused from the role that it's been playing. It does seem to be a 
 
 stretch from where we're at.
 
And I think, you know, most people would assess the situation here right now that it's in the mind of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, if he 
 
 really wants to move here. You know, takes two to tango. And I think that the same negotiators would tell you the same is true for negotiation.
 
If Hamas is going to move some, it would seem that Prime Minister Netanyahu is going to have to move some. And I don't think we're seeing movement from 
 
 either side at the moment, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah. Yeah, and you could argue that Israel's goals were less robust to a certain extent on the effort in Lebanon than they are. They're 
 
 very, very specific and strategic when it comes to Gaza, and they are not completed yet by any stretch as far as Israel is concerned.
 
To both of you, thank you very much indeed for joining us. We'll do more on this as we move through the next two hours. Meantime, a lengthy delay, 
 
 President-elect Donald Trump's team signed an agreement on Tuesday with the Biden. White House to formally start the transition of power ahead of 
 
 January the 20th that will allow Trump's team to get briefings and meet with outgoing officials.
 
However, Trump transition officials declined to sign two other agreements, one to utilize taxpayer funds for access to secure government offices and 
 
 technology for the transition and the other to process security clearances for transition staffers. CNN's Steve Contorno joins us from West Palm Beach 
 
 in Florida. Why is what we are just reporting important? Steve, can you explain?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Well, as part of the transition from one administration to the other, there has been this long-standing process 
 
 where the outgoing administration helps explain and introduce the incoming administration to the inner workings of government and that has been on 
 
 delay, in part because the Trump transition team and really his campaign, refused to sign a memorandum of understanding with the Biden Administration 
 
 on the timetable that is normally reserved for this process.
 
It was the deadline was October 1st. The Trump campaign blew through that deadline in part because they were concerned about the ethics agreement 
 
 that their administration and incoming officials and transition team would have to sign in order to get access to that information.
 
Now they did agree to post the ethical arrangements that are allowing, that they are operating under and that their cabinet members are operating under 
 
 in order to get access to that information. But as you said, other key information will be withheld because they are not signing the access to 
 
 background checks for their officials that will be held taking place by the FBI and the federal government.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Instead, they are going to be handling a lot of that internally, just showing that the Trump Administration, even as it relents on some of the 
 
 sort of traditional processes here, is still going its own way in a lot of ways. And it raises some significant questions about the backgrounds of 
 
 these individuals.
 
And the concerns that we have heard from the intelligence community is that, look, these aren't necessarily designed to derail a specific nominee 
 
 because they might have some unsavory past, but it's to give the incoming administration a full accounting for anything that might be in an 
 
 individual's past that a Ford adversary might have or know about.
 
That could be embarrassing, that could be used against them and to put to get leverage over them. So that is one of the reasons why these background 
 
 checks are so important, and why it's sort of alarming to some individuals that the Trump Administration will be foregoing that for key roles.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, Steve, thank you. And that Trump transition team becoming clearer by the day at this point. Well, it is a getaway day 
 
 for millions of Americans heading to their Thanksgiving holiday destination, but bad weather in places could delay last minute travelers.
 
Look at Interstate 70 near the Eisenhower Tower in Colorado, for example, on Tuesday, snow piling up as a powerful winter storm impacts travel there. 
 
 Well, thanks to falling gasoline prices. AAA expects 71 million people to travel by car to their Thanksgiving destination.
 
18 million more Americans are expected to fly with today being one of the busiest days. CNN's Whitney Wild is at Chicago O'Hare International for us 
 
 this morning. And how are things looking there?
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: They look absolutely perfect, Becky. It has slowed down significantly from how busy it was earlier. Now it's a 
 
 little bit more of a slow trickle. It is very easy to get through the airport. This is the absolute perfect combination for a holiday weekend. 
 
 The weather is good. The cancelations are low.
 
Most importantly, the security line time is low, Becky. 10 minutes at TSA pre here at the United terminal, terminal one here at O'Hare. 5 minutes for 
 
 economy, 5 minutes for premier access. So, when you consider that this is the biggest holiday weekend of travel, not just, you know, like compared to 
 
 other holidays, but in recent memory, this is going to be a record travel year.
 
Again, you'd said 18 million people or more are expected to travel. That represents, nationally, a 6 percent increase from 2023. Here at Chicago 
 
 area airports, they're expecting an 11.4 percent increase compared with 2023. And that means, Becky, that there were going to be at least a million 
 
 and a half people coming through O'Hare and Midway the two Chicago area airports over this holiday weekend.
 
They're thinking Sunday is going to be the busiest day. 254,000 people pouring through O'Hare, around 58,000 pouring through Midway on those two 
 
 days. So, it is going to be very, very busy. But fortunately, the weather looks like it's holding. Things are running very smoothly here. I spoke 
 
 with a couple of folks out here to get their ideas about tips, what to do to keep your spirits high when you're in the skies, Becky.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- pick your outfit the night before. That's what I think. Hang up your outfit. Know what you want to wear. Make sure it's 
 
 comfortable. Buy some new shoes, so that it's like, you're excited about it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So that you wake up feeling like, oh, I get to wear my new shoes, a new outfit.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When things go wrong, it's like, well, I, you know, I got a new outfit on.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I feel like you should bring, like, a lot of books, because, like, if you first traveling and you feel like, oh, it's going to 
 
 be great. I'm not saying that long. I don't need like things to entertain you. Well, most likely you're going to need something to entertain 
 
 yourself.
 
WILD: What are your travel tips to get through security smoothly you've got kids? What are the tips for other families?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Follow my wife.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILD: That is a message you can carry through the holiday weekend. Becky, back to you.
 
ANDERSON: I love that. And I love the fact that those kids are carrying their books with them to keep them entertained. That is fantastic to hear. 
 
 Whitney, always a pleasure. Thank you very much indeed. Still to come after years of brutal fighting, Ukrainian soldiers adapting to what are 
 
 incredibly difficult circumstances on the Eastern Front Lines. We've a report from one city which is under fire.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well after several days of clashes with Pakistan security forces, Imran Khan's Party is calling off protests demanding his release. In a 
 
 statement to X, Khan's Party said it had been forced due to cancel -- forced to cancel demonstrations due to quote, the government's brutality.
 
Well authorities organized a nighttime operation on Tuesday to disperse thousands of Khan supporters. The crowd had broken through barricades and 
 
 breached a lockdown in the capital of Islamabad. To an update now from North Korea that could have a huge impact on the war in Ukraine.
 
New research suggests that Pyongyang is expanding a weapons plant that makes missiles that are used by Russia. Researchers at the Middlebury 
 
 Institute of International Affairs or Studies says the plant makes both KN- 23 and what are known as KN-24 missiles, the former of which Russia has used around 60 times this year.
 
Ukraine's prosecutor general tells CNN, strikes using North Korean missiles have killed at least 28 people this year and injured more than 200. Well 
 
 for Ukraine, the fighting grinds on as the war approaches the three-year mark, the outlook seems bleak for one Unit in Pokrovsk, that is so low on 
 
 infantry, it is resorting to drones instead. Nick Paton Walsh, my colleague, has more. And I'm warning, some of the video in his report is 
 
 graphic.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): They're running out of time space, and people. Night is killing time for drones. They've switched on the anti-drone device because of the thread 
 
 around here. This Ukrainian drone unit of just two hunting, but also hunted.
 
WALSH: I think I hear a drone inside. Is there a Russian drone? Is it one of theirs? They don't know, but they have to carry on.
 
WALSH (voice-over): Dogs are not friends. Their heat signals can give their launch spot away to Russia's thermal cameras. They close in on the target a 
 
 house, jamming hits the signal, but they fire anyway. Russia advancing too fast here, south of Pokrovsk in the east, to miss any chances.
 
The skyline speaks of how Pokrovsk is in Russia's crosshairs. Ukraine is short of manpower, but it is so bad here they say they must rely on drones, 
 
 not infantry, to slow a brazen Russian daylight assault like this one.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The situation is very critical. We lack infantry to fight and hold out for some time while the attack drones do their job. 
 
 That's why we often see the enemy uncomfortably penetrating vulnerable areas.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
WALSH (voice-over): Watch how the first Russian tank here is relentless, a Trump presidency and possible peace talks loom. Do they even have time for 
 
 that here?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I cannot say how much time we have. If there is any time at all. Because now they are pushing their troops to the front as much as 
 
 possible. And then at one point they will go for an assault. They can go very far. In one moment. 
 
WALSH (voice-over): Talk here is abnormally negative, with weeks of costly and chaotic retreat on film. Like these Ukrainians hit when they're 
 
 mistakenly told this building didn't have any Russians in it. This house has an encircled Ukrainian drone unit without any infantry to help fight 
 
 advancing Russians. So, they send a drone to fly just 30 meters across the street.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have no men. I'm f-- alone. I'm f-- tired. I love my job whatever trash is happening but we need other young people to love this 
 
 job too. Our country is awake, but people in it are f-- not. Guys are dying here. This is trash. Freezing this war is a double-edged sword.
 
Do we give up the land my friends died for or to continue taking it back and lose even more friends? If these two old men [Trump and Putin] start 
 
 measuring dicks, Ukraine will be the middle of it all.
 
WALSH (voice-over): Russian troops savage in the assault. This footage shows a local in orange who's shown Russians where Ukrainians were hiding. 
 
 They are led out. And shot while face down. Part of a pattern of surrendering Ukrainians executed, say prosecutors investigating this 
 
 incident, a fortnight ago.
 
Pokrovsk key sites bombed, but so far spared Russia's trademark devastation. It is possible, some say Moscow is moving so fast it thinks it 
 
 will spend the winter here. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, outside Pokrovsk, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well next up, fears of a new trade war between the U.S., Mexico and Canada. Find out what Donald Trump is promising from the moment that he 
 
 takes office. More on that is coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: They are in celebration of the Thanksgiving Day Parade. Well, there you go. Let's see crew from Macy's along with Father Christmas and 
 
 the elves ringing in the trading day in New York. Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, where the time is half past 6. It is half past 9 in 
 
 New York, of course.
 
You are watching "Connect the World". Well, at the top of the show, we were looking at a very mixed picture for the opening on Wall Street. Indications 
 
 from the futures market showed a little bit of worry from investors, perhaps, about tariff rises and immigration crackdowns under President-
 
 elect Donald Trump.
 
Let's take a closer look at that now that is reflected in what are the first few seconds of the trading day. Trump promising to slap a new 25 
 
 percent across the board tariff on all goods from both Mexico and Canada, and that would have huge economic repercussions. For example, last year, 
 
 the U.S. imported $130 billion worth of vehicles from Mexico.
 
Many car manufacturers moved production there. U.S. car manufacturers move production there to get around tariffs on China. Now there are concerns. 
 
 Trump's plans could mean consumers end up paying a whole lot more. Vanessa Yurkevich is on the story for us. Look, we know that much of what we hear 
 
 from Trump now, with two months to go.
 
May just be positioning, negotiation rhetoric, but we do know he calls himself tariff man, and tariffs are in play as far as he can -- he is 
 
 concerned. So, at this point, given what we have heard, what is it exactly that he is proposing and why? And can you explain why it is that car 
 
 manufacturers who move their production south of times are now getting hit in the markets. What are the concerns here?
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, there's a lot going on, but let's just start with what President-elect Trump is 
 
 proposing. He's proposing 25 percent tariffs on all imports from Canada and Mexico, an additional 10 percent on imports coming from China.
 
And that is so critical for the auto industry, because here in the U.S., we have the big three automakers, Ford, Stellantis and General Motors. But 
 
 there's no such thing as an all-American car anymore. So much of what goes into these vehicles are coming from parts made in Canada and Mexico.
 
And also, we're importing fully assembled cars from Mexico into the United States. And that's why additional tariffs on China, we still get some parts 
 
 from there, but tariffs on imports from Mexico and Canada would really raise the price of vehicles. Right now, the average price of a vehicle here 
 
 in the United States is $47,000 if these tariffs go into effect, it would be much more.
 
Those are just a list of some of the cars that are made and assembled in Mexico, and also some of the parts that are used for cars, there you see 
 
 the price right there. That price is going to go up. But ultimately, the question is, so why do we, here in the U.S., import so many parts and cars 
 
 from Mexico in particular?
 
Well, labor is much cheaper, and it is, we don't have to pay any tariffs. So, then people might say, OK, well, if there are tariffs in place, if this 
 
 does go into effect, why don't we just make it here in the U.S.? Well, we simply do not have the capacity. Labor is much more expensive here in the 
 
 U.S.
 
Right now, we're trying to stand up 16 semiconductor facilities here in the United States, but that's a long way out three to five years. And 
 
 ultimately, we're not hearing right now from these big three U.S. automakers. They're not commenting on these tariffs. I know that they're 
 
 watching them very closely, but as you mentioned, the markets are responding in some way.
 
Yesterday, majority all of those automaker stocks right there closing down GM down 9 percent. Investors essentially saying, oh-oh, what is this going 
 
 to mean for these companies? And what is it going to mean for car prices for consumers? And remember, Becky, if new cars become more expensive, used 
 
 cars also become more expensive, because all of the demand shifts to the used car market, and ultimately, that is starting a whole new round of 
 
 inflation for Americans.
 
ANDERSON: These threats, many suggesting going some way to international companies, sort of reorganizing their business, even before Donald Trump 
 
 gets into office.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
Now, as you rightly point out, this reorganization of the car industry would take a lot longer than two months, but it would be fascinating see 
 
 what we get in January, and whether what we are hearing now is somewhat watered down at this point with these threats, at least just providing, you 
 
 know, some room for negotiation.
 
It's always good to have you. Vanessa, thank you very much indeed. Making clear why it is that we saw the drop in those car manufacturers prices 
 
 yesterday. Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. And in Southeast Asia, eight staff members of a 
 
 Backpacker hostel in Laos have now been detained by authorities investigating the deaths of six tourists suspected of methanol poisoning.
 
The victims include two Australian teenagers, a British woman, one American and two Danes, a story we reported here on CNN just a couple of days ago. 
 
 Well, Pope Francis met with the U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, at the Vatican. This was an opportunity for them to discuss topics for 
 
 Blinken's final time, including the Middle East and Russia's aggression against Ukraine.
 
The pontiff has expressed his solidarity with the Ukrainian people and the need for peace. Well, these are aerials of Notre Dame Cathedral, which is 
 
 set to reopen on December the seventh. Paris landmark, was damaged in a devastating fire in 2019. The cathedral's restoration resulted in hundreds 
 
 of millions of dollars in repairs.
 
Church officials are expecting 50 million people to visit the cathedral in the coming year -- said, Notre Dame. More news after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, I want to introduce you now to a man on what seems like an impossible mission. Don't die for today's installment of CNN "Decoded". 
 
 Anna Stewart gets a first-hand glimpse into the daily -- routine of tech entrepreneur Bryan Johnson, who has become the face of the bio hacking 
 
 movement. Have a look at this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: I'm here to meet the man whose mission in life is to not die. Want some tips? Let's go.
 
STEWART (voice-over): Bryan Johnson is arguably the world's most famous bio hacker for delaying aging, yes, but also for the first multi-generational 
 
 plasma transfusion. He's often called a vampire, for once, being blood brothers with his father and son.
 
BRYAN JOHNSON, MILLIONAIRE TECH ENTREPRENEUR: You OK, bro? Honestly, probably not. You know, like --
 
STEWART (voice-over): Now, I don't make a habit of asking people how old they are, but this is wild.
 
STEWART: Tell us how old you are?
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
JOHNSON: My biological age is a few 100 ages. So, my heart is 37, my lungs are age 18. I age at 0.64, which means I have a birthday every 19 months. 
 
 So, I basically have figured out that I am a few 100 different ages, depending upon the organ you're measuring.
 
STEWART: And chronologically?
 
JOHNSON: 47.
 
STEWART: 47 years old. Describe to me a day in the life of Bryan Johnson?
 
JOHNSON: Like complete my entire morning routine by around 08:00 a.m., but by that point, I've eaten my first meal today. I've exercised for an hour a 
 
 day. I've done red light therapy, I've done meditation, I have injected myself with a few things. I've taken 40 different pills. So, it's just the 
 
 sequence of steps, like you're --
 
STEWART (voice-over): Trying to not die comes with a price tag.
 
STEWART: Hang on, there's a clinic in your house.
 
JOHNSON: Yeah.
 
STEWART (voice-over): Bryan spends of $2 million a year in this endeavor.
 
JOHNSON: -- like this is medical grade ultrasound, we --
 
STEWART (voice-over): But not all health enthusiasts, opt for such rigidity.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another series on longevity and biohacking.
 
C.J. MALHOTRA, FOUNDER OF BIOHACKN: Today, we're going to talk about charging your battery.
 
STEWART (voice-over): C.J. Malhotra is a Dubai based founder who opts for more economical bio hacks.
 
MALHOTRA: Biohackn is taking simple steps that everyday person can take, and then you measure it. So, for example, you make a small change in the 
 
 way your lifestyle is or right before going to sleep, and your sleep improves. That's a win. And you don't need -- you don't need to invest a 
 
 lot of money to do it. You don't need fancy equipment.
 
STEWART (voice-over): So perhaps we can all join the quest for longevity. Anna Stewart, CNN, Dubai.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: News just in a development just hours into the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire. Lebanon's army says it has now begun reinforcing its deployment 
 
 in the south litany sector of the country, as it is known. That is tied to fully implementing U.N. Security Council resolution 1701, which is the 
 
 basis for this new ceasefire deal.
 
And we will have a lot more on this throughout the day here on CNN. I'm going to throw this over to my colleagues on "World Sport". After this 
 
 short break, I will be back in 15 minutes time for the second hour of our show. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END