Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Macron Hosts U.S. President Biden In Paris During State Visit; Israel War Cabinet Minister Likely To Announce Departure Saturday; Biden, Macron Lay Wreath At Tomb Of The Unknown Soldier In Paris. Aired 6-7a ET

Aired June 08, 2024 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:00:32]
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Good morning to you. Welcome to CNN This Morning. It is Saturday, June 8. I'm Amara Walker. 
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Victor Blackwell. Thank you for joining us. This morning, President Biden begins the state visit portion of his trip to France. It starts with a welcome ceremony, which President Biden is expected to depart for soon. 
 
And then the ceremony will begin at the L'Arc de Triomphe. Then there will be a parade procession to the Elysee Palace, where Biden, French president Emmanuel Macron, will attend a working lunch.
 
WALKER: And both leaders are expected to give statements to the press before Macron welcomes the President and the First Lady to the famous Musee d'Orsay for a state dinner. The close ties between the U.S. and France will be on full display today as Biden continues to push his message of saving democracy and freedom following his D-Day anniversary speech Friday.
 
CNN senior White House correspondent Kayla Tausche is live in Paris this morning. Hello, Kayla, we are expecting to see the President at any moment for this welcome ceremony, walk us through what we will see today.
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, hello, or should we say Bonjour from Paris, Amara, today, after a poignant few days in Normandy, the red carpet is now being rolled out in Paris, where President Biden and President Macron will now engage in a series of events to deepen the collaboration between the two countries on a number of fronts.
 
You will see them momentarily arriving at the L'Arc de Triomphe with local school children standing by. Then they will travel to the Elysee Palace, where they will have a working lunch. The two leaders there are expected to discuss two issues in particular, in great detail, the ongoing wars in Gaza, where President Macron has broken with President Biden and the ongoing war in Ukraine, where President Macron, here in Europe has taken something of a leadership position, trying to galvanize the rest of Europe to spend more on their collective defenses, to produce more and manufacture more domestic weapons in their own countries, rather than outsource them and potentially have depleted supplies. 
 
If there is a potential that war moves past Ukraine into Europe, that is going to be one of the discussions that the two leaders have today and how to support the war in Ukraine for the long haul. They're going to be preparing essentially joint positions to go into the G7 summit next week and the NATO summit that will happen next month. 
 
We're also expecting them to discuss climate change, artificial intelligence and other matters of commercial importance. At that state dinner tonight, which has been moved to the Elysee Palace from the Musee d'Orsay, we expect luminaries from the business and diplomatic role to be on hand for President Macron to FET (ph) President Biden and a relationship that has deepened over the course of President Biden's terms.
 
The two leaders had a very high profile falling out early in Biden's term, when he chose to essentially sign up with Australia and the United Kingdom to partner on the production of nuclear submarines for the Indo-Pacific, where a French contractor had previously been partnered to build some of those submarines. They were essentially excluded from that partnership, and it took several months to bridge that rift.
 
Well now, after sharing a bond over several common goals, common themes, common ideals, the need to defend Europe, the need to secure Europe, and the need to essentially protect the West and Western ideology, they have grown much closer. But certainly, President Macron is keen to hear about President Biden's prospects for reelection and whether as President Biden has said, America is still back. Amara.
 
BLACKWELL: I'll take it. Kayla Tausche for us there in Paris. Thank you very much. President Biden commemorated the 80th anniversary of D- Day with a speech in Normandy. Biden drew on the heroism of the U.S. Army Rangers who scaled the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc on D-Day in 1944 to urge Americans to think for -- think rather of the fight for democracy as a cause greater than themselves, and cautioned against isolationism.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Not just to honor those who showed such remarkable bravery on that day, June 6, 1944, to listen to the echoes of their voices to hear them, because they are summoning us and are summoning us now. 
 <br>[06:05:00]
 
They ask us, what will we do? They're not asking us to scale these cliffs, but they're asking us to stay true to what America stands for. They're not asking us to give or risk our lives, but they are asking us to care for others in our country more than ourselves. They're not asking us to do their job. They're asking us to do our job, to protect freedom in our time, to defend democracy, to stand up aggression abroad and at home, to be part of something bigger than ourselves. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: Joining us now is Daniel Lippman, White House correspondent for Politico, good morning to you, Daniel. 
 
DANIEL LIPPMAN, WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT, POLITICO: Good morning.
 
WALKER: Thank you so much for being with us. So let's talk about that speech that we heard from Biden up on that famed cliff top. Obviously, you know, there was some echoes of Reagan's address at that same location in 1984. We heard Biden there make his case for America's leadership in the world. But he also had a political pitch for those of us here at home. 
 
What did you make of what he had to say, though he did not mention Trump specifically?
 
LIPPMAN: Yes, he was never going to mention Donald Trump by name. That would be a big headline, because that would be he would be accused of politicizing this historic memorial to these fallen heroes and the people who actually were successful in storming the beaches. 
 
And so he has to walk a fine line between reminding Americans and the world of democracy's challenges today, it's one of the top issues on the ballot in terms of what people of both sides think, without making it too political, and he can't make his entire election pitch all about democracy, given that a lot of Americans face more common concerns about paying for bills, paying for food and gas and so they're not going about their lives thinking about democracy all day long. 
 
WALKER: What do you think the White House is hoping will come of today's state visit with the French president?
 
LIPPMAN: Well, I think the White House wants to send a message that the U.S. and France are aligned totally on Ukraine, try to see if they can move the ball forward in getting peace in Gaza and Israel. 
 
And I think they want to also remind Americans of the progress that they've accomplished in terms of pushing back Russia from Ukraine they've had, you know, they have rare This is one of their top foreign policy victories, but it's still uncertain, and Trump has said he is kind of less in Zelenskyy corner. And people on the right are very skeptical of having a very drawn out war, and it's taken a long time to get weapons back to Ukraine.
 
And so they've had to, you know, they've had some tough spots in terms of Zelenskyy's aides were saying, hey, one speech in Normandy is not going to help us out too much. We need weapons. We need training for pilots.
 
WALKER: If you look just over the past several months, of course, Macron and Biden have been aligned when it came comes to foreign policy, when it comes to the big picture, with Ukraine, obviously trying to prevent Putin from expanding his empire, and, of course, the war in Israel. But Macron has taken a different approach in the way he thinks the
 
 Western world should defend Ukraine, and also the way that he has condemned Israel more publicly. What will you be looking for when it comes to their joint statement?
 
LIPPMAN: Well, they usually work these things out way in advance, and there's not going to be that much daylight between the two leaders on major themes. The U.S. and France are huge allies, but I'm going to what was interesting is that Macron's team wanted a press conference, a joint press conference with Biden. They turned that down. There was issues about and logistical issues. They've also had disagreements about China. 
 
Macron has been more warm towards President Xi and France has wants to maintain their commercial relationship with China more than the U.S., and so I expect that to be talked about a little bit in their joint statement and in their private meeting.
 
WALKER: What about their political calculations as both leaders meet today? I mean, they're both suffering low approval ratings, right? So if you can just give us context on both their perspectives, and you know, as they have this meeting.
 
LIPPMAN: Well, most people don't vote based on foreign policy or a meeting with a foreign leader, not as many French Americans who are looking at this relationship. But I think that Macron and many European leaders are afraid about Biden's political standing. 
 <br>[06:10:02]
 
They don't want to deal with Donald Trump anymore. This is someone who has said to Vladimir Putin, you can do whatever the hell you want if those if countries are not paying their NATO dues. And so that is something that is. Macron can't endorse Biden, but he's giving him a bear hug during an election year, and this is Biden's only state visit abroad during this year. 
 
And so, of course, it has good timing, but Europe is afraid that it's going to get abandoned by Trump, who is going to be more isolationist if he wins reelection. 
 
WALKER: Well, it is significant that you have President Biden on this state visit during a very busy election year. Daniel Lippman, good to see you as always. Thank you. 
 
BLACKWELL: And of course, we'll continue to monitor events in Paris and take you back there live in just a moment, we're awaiting President Biden, First Lady Dr. Jill Biden, to depart there en route to the L'Arc de Triomphe for that welcome ceremony. 
 
We're also following division and disagreements within the Israeli cabinet, why one of the key members of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu War Cabinet could exit today.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:16:00]
 
BLACKWELL: In Paris, a day of pomp and policy. French President Emmanuel Macron hosts President Biden for an official state visit. Live pictures here. You see President Macron there with First Lady Brigitte Macron, waiting for the arrival of the U.S. President, First Lady.
 
WALKER: They just arrived moments ago, and they are there. The U.S. President, First Lady, will be there to participate in a welcome ceremony there at the L'Arc de Triomphe, there will be a formal welcome ceremony moments from now, and that will be followed by a parade to the Elysee Palace, where a working lunch will take place before tonight's state dinner.
 
BLACKWELL: Today could mark a critical moment in Israel's war with Hamas. Today, Benny Gantz, a key member of the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's war cabinet, is expected to announce whether he will go through with his vow to leave the Israeli government. 
 
WALKER: The popular former defense minister said last month that he and his National Unity Party would resign unless Netanyahu came up with a plan for Gaza's postwar future, as well as bringing home the hostages. 
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman is in Beirut for us, and Ben today was Gantz's deadline for a Netanyahu plan. Do we have any idea if he may have changed his mind about resigning?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Amara, before we get to the question of Benny Gantz's political future, we're receiving reports from Gaza that there's a major Israeli military operation in the central part of the Gaza Strip focused on The Nuseirat refugee camp in Deir al-Balah. 
 
We're told that the main hospital there, the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital has already received 16 bodies, and there are reports of hundreds of people injured, including many women and children. 
 
Now, regarding Benny Gantz, last month he said on the eighth of June he would withdraw from the war cabinet if Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did not come up with some sort of plan for a post-war arrangement in Gaza, so to speak. Today is the eighth of June, and all indications are that he is going ahead with this resignation.
 
We understand that this evening, at 8:00 p.m. local time, he will be holding a press conference, and the expectation is that he will announce his withdrawal.
 
Now, his party is not part of the ruling coalition led by Netanyahu. He joined the Israeli war cabinet after the seventh of October, really, and as part of a unity government. However, he has had differences with Prime Minister Netanyahu for many months now. He has been pressing for some sort of end to the war in Gaza, but Netanyahu doesn't seem to be in a great hurry to do that. 
 
Now we understand, however, that both of them basically agree that they don't want the creation of a Palestinian state, something that President Biden has pushed for eventually, and neither of them is in favor of the Palestinian Authority running Gaza after the war. 
 
Nonetheless, Gantz has had better relations with the Biden administration than Prime Minister Netanyahu. Gantz has actually gone to Washington in defiance of the wishes of the Prime Minister, but the fact that his party is not part of the ruling coalition means that his departure isn't necessarily going to result in the fall of the Netanyahu government. It may, however, mean that the extremists in his cabinet will have even more influence on the Prime Minister. Amara, Victor.
 <br>[06:20:03]
 
BLACKWELL: Ben Wedeman, thank you so much. With me now is CNN military analyst Colonel Cedric Leighton, and CNN political and national security analyst David Sanger. He's also a New York Times White House and national security correspondent and the author of "New Cold Wars: China's rise, Russia's Invasion and America's Struggle to Defend the West." Gentlemen, welcome. Good to see you.
 
Colonel, let me start with you, and kind of put together the news that we got from the top with Ben Wedeman and this expected departure of Benny Gantz. Does his departure dramatically change the execution of the war by the IDF. He said that there could be more extremists who have louder voices within this coalition of Netanyahu's.
 
What does the war cabinet without Gantt look like on the ground?
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, good morning, Victor. I think it looks less moderate. And if you can use the term moderate in quotation marks, because the way the IDF has conducted this effort, it this war effort in Gaza, it doesn't look like it's a, you know, some in operation that they're handling with kid gloves. They're using brute force tactics in many instances. 
 
And as Ben described at the top of his report, there are, you know, still very major operations going on. So in the short term, the departure, the potential departure, of defense minister Gantz will not change those operations. 
 
And in fact, it could basically exacerbate the tensions that are already very high between the civilian population in Gaza and the IDF. So I think these are the kinds of things that we have to look for. I think that against this departure may result in an even less moderate approach when it comes to the conduct of the war. 
 
BLACKWELL: David, Benny Gantz gave Netanyahu an ultimatum. He wanted to hear the plan to get the hostages back to Israel, and what is the plan for a post-war Gaza? If he didn't get that, he was out on June 8. He's not getting that, and we'll get to that a little later. But what's the White House view of this likely departure?
 
DAVID SANGER, CNN POLITICAL AND NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Well, on the one hand, they are completely in Gantz's camp here, it's the White House that has been pressing for a plan, not only a short term plan on the military side, but an end game plan here, for how Gaza would be administered for how long Israeli troops would remain for, how do you define the defeat of Hamas.
 
Because, as we learned after 9/11, you never completely defeat a terror group. Obviously, new members joined and so forth. But you want to get to a point which President Biden thinks the Israelis are at right now, where the terror group cannot launch another major attack, which, of course, is just what the President said the other day. 
 
So Gantz has had much more of a direct channel back and forth with the Pentagon, with Secretary Lloyd Austin, the defense secretary, certainly with Jake Sullivan, the National Security Advisor and his departure is actually going to make it a little bit harder for the administration to talk to the war cabinet. They're accustomed against. He used to run the military. They consider him to be somebody who thinks in military terms, and it's going to leave them more dependent on talking than Netanyahu.
 
BLACKWLEL: Colonel Leighton, CNN has learned that the CIA is circulating a report that concludes that Netanyahu is likely to defy the U.S. demand for the plan, the plan that Benny Gantz wants as well about what happens after the war. 
 
His belief is that he can avoid an exodus of military leaders, of members of the coalition, if he speaks in vague terms here about what he wants to do next for in Gaza. How does that, if at all, influence what the U.S. does as it relates to military support, financial support for Israel?
 
LEIGHTON: Well, this is going to be a very interesting question, Victor, because it may not be the administration who wants to do this, the Biden administration, but this could very well play into the hands of those elements in the U.S. who do not want to support Israel. 
 
There have been calls even from the NAACP to stop arming Israel, to stop weapons supply for Israel. And if those kinds of efforts bear fruit, they could very well create a big rift between Israel and the United States. It would really be the first time in a long time that we've actually seen a cutoff of arms from the U.S. to Israel.
 <br>[06:25:03]
 
And I think it's a very distinct possibility if Netanyahu gets his way, and in essence, kicks the can down the road forever and ever, and it does not come up with a plan, and in essence, stalls everything so that he can not only maintain power, but keep the military operation alive for a very long time.
 
BLACKWELL: Quickly, David, how big of a threat politically is Benny Gantz to Netanyahu now outside of the war cabinet if he does indeed leaves?
 
SANGER: You know, a few months ago, we would have said a significant one. Israelis poll pretty highly for his opposition party, but that has decreased some in the past couple of months. It'll be interesting to see if it comes back now, as he's operating from the outside instead of the inside, in some ways he may be a bigger threat to Netanyahu as an outsider, and thus more free to be a critic. 
 
BLACKWELL: David Sanger, Colonel Cedric Leighton, thank you.
 
WALKER: And we continue to follow developments out of France this morning, where President Biden and French President Emmanuel Macron will participate in a welcome ceremony at the L'Arc de Triomphe as part of President Biden's state visit. These are live pictures of the U.S. president's motorcade as they are headed to this welcome ceremony, and they will be greeted by the French president and his wife. 
 
We will stay on top of these pictures. 
 
Also, searing temperatures are impacting millions of people in Western -- in the western U.S., it's expected to last through today in Las Vegas and Death Valley. Coming up. A look at just how hot it may get.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: All right, right now, a welcome ceremony about to get underway as French President Emmanuel Macron joins President Joe Biden at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. You can see live pictures here. Soon, there will be a wreath laying at the tomb of the unknown soldier and then a parade possession to the Elysee Palace. We will continue to monitor these live events.  
 
BLACKWELL: Yes, this is the president now getting out of the limo. You see the embrace between first lady Jill Biden and Brigitte Macron. These two countries obviously have a very long history together. 
 
France, the U.S'. oldest ally, these men, a warm relationship is described by the White House, although, there have certainly been moments of tension over the last several years. This though, this is a moment of grandeur. The pomp and celebration of the relationship of the two countries, they will get to that working lunch later today to talk about some serious topics. 
 
The president there waving to crowds that have gathered to see the two leaders and the first ladies. 
 
WALKER: We will see them eventually later this morning, deliver joint statements as well. It will not be a press conference, so, no questions from reporters, and then from there, they will participate in a state dinner at Elysee Palace.  
 
BLACKWELL: We're joined now again by CNN military analysts, Colonel Cedric Leighton and CNN political and national security analyst David Sanger, "New York Times", "White House and national security correspondent. David, let me start with you. There will be a lot of pretty pictures today, some fantastic champagne tonight, in the meantime, in-between time, what's the work that is to be done?
 
SANGER: Well, yes, on the pomp and ceremony side, no one does this like the French. The dinners, the whole look in the Elysee Palace, the parades -- you'll remember that it's when President Trump, when he was still in office went to a military parade in France, that he came back, insisted that the United States do big military parades in Washington.
 
And his military had to talk him down from this. So, you'll see a lot of great scenery. On the substance, it has been as you suggested earlier, Victor, a bit of a testy relationship. It started off badly when the United States went behind France's back, and did a deal with Australia for new nuclear submarines. 
 
And basically cut out an existing French relationship that didn't get it off to the start. And they've had different strategies on Ukraine consistently with President Macron only recently, raising the suggestion that the West should be putting troops into Ukraine, something the president opposes.
 
So, you'll see a little bit of jockeying on that. But I'm sure they'll do their best to make sure that it doesn't come out. It's one reason there's no joint press conference. 
 
WALKER: And speaking of the pomp and circumstance, if you gentlemen will hold on for a bit as we take a listen to these live moments right now in Paris.
 
(TROOP PLAYING U.S. NATIONAL ANTHEM)
 <br>[06:35:00] 
 
(TROOP PLAYING FRANCE NATIONAL ANTHEM)
 
WALKER: And as we bring it back to the conversation with David Sanger and Colonel Cedric Leighton, we also have Nic Robertson; our international diplomatic editor standing by. On the issue of substance, and I want to get to you, Colonel Leighton.
 
Let's talk about Ukraine, because obviously Ukraine is top of mind for both presidents as Zelenskyy was there for the D-Day commemorations. We saw that he had that meeting with President Biden on Friday where he thanked him for America's reversal on policy, allowing U.S. weapons to be used inside Russia for counter attacks.
 
But of course, Biden also apologizing for the delay in funding. Colonel, how important is it for President Biden and Macron to be in lockstep in strategy when it comes to Ukraine, because we've seen, you know, some differences, right? I mean, Macron has been, I guess bolder in his approach to Ukraine, wanting more direct military involvement by NATO allies. What are your thoughts on his approach versus the U.S.? 
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, Amara, this is one of the great things about this, is that, you know, as we watched the two presidents lay the wreath at the tomb of the unknown soldiers in France, in Paris, as we know, the way in which they're doing this together is kind of the way the countries really wanted to act in terms of Ukraine. 
 
Now, when it comes to the actual fact of the matter, they're on slightly different timetables. So, it's not anything that can't be bridged. But one of the things that the French have announced is that they are going to provide training in Mirage 2000 jet fighters for the Ukrainian armed forces. 
 
And that is going to make a really big difference in the war effort in terms of beefing up Ukraine's Air Force, that will be in conjunction with their team training that is already happening, not only in the United States, but in Denmark, and there's also supposed to be a training center in Romania that is being set up with French help.
 
So, these are the kinds of things that will be a part of the effort now in terms of artillery and air defenses, the French have provided and are in the process of providing even more weaponry in that -- in that area to the Ukrainians, the United States, of course, as also do this in the preponderance of military aid is still coming from the United States. 
 
But basically, France is leading the European collision to support the Ukrainian war effort, and I think President Macron sees this as being really a very important bulwark that he's setting up in essence of buffer zone with Ukraine at the center of this buffer between an expansionist Russia, a desire by Russia to move forward to consolidate its power and in essence to challenge NATO. 
 <br>[06:40:00] 
 
France recognizes that any challenges to NATO are really challenges to its sovereignty and instability to not only maintain its independence as a European power, but it also means that the French are willing to some extent to shoulder more of a burden, at least in the political sense now in the fight -- sense, that's a different issue.
 
BLACKWELL: Nic Robertson to you now, both of these men are watching the calendar, and they know that the U.S. is about five months out from a national election, and the former President Donald Trump could possibly be in the Oval Office again, how much does that calendar and the potential for a change in leadership here in the U.S. influence what is happening today, what will be decided and discussed today, and the urgency of any plans as it relates to the two major wars we're watching and the rest?
 
Oh, let me pause and we'll listen here to this moment. 
 
(TROOP SINGING U.S. NATIONAL ANTHEM) 
 
(TROOP SINGING FRENCH NATIONAL ANTHEM) 
 
BLACKWELL: All right, the singing there of the U.S. and French national anthems after the plague of those national anthems, before that, wreath was laid at the tomb of the unknown soldier. This, of course, the welcome ceremony at the Arc de Triomphe. We're watching a flyover as well as this welcome ceremony continues. 
 
Nic, let me get back to you, and the question of how the U.S. election influences what will be discussed and decided today. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: It doesn't, and really just picking up from the conversation you were having prior to that, the differences between the United States and France today, President Biden's position, Emmanuel Macron's position today is a concern, and it's a concern because of the recognition that President Putin in Russia will just exploit any tiny difference that he spots in the NATO alliance in terms of positions, whether it's Macron's forward-leaning desire to put military trainers on the ground inside Ukraine, United States' reticence to do that. 
 
Compared to an even more potentially isolationist situation in the United States under Donald Trump if he becomes president and carries out some of the things as indicated that he would do. Yes, the clock counts down on that because there, Putin would not be looking at exploiting small differences. 
 
There would be, in essence, if that was to happen, a major rupture in the -- in NATO's alliance and the belief in countries like France and Germany and the Baltic states, and the new members like Finland and Sweden, is that Putin would massively try to exploit what he would perceive as a weakened NATO, because it wouldn't have the United States support that the money going into Ukraine and the weapons going into Ukraine would be faltering. 
 <br>[06:45:00] 
 
So, the clock ticks. There is nothing, and I believe these leaders or perhaps less that President Macron can do and maybe more that President Biden can do in terms of finding ways to win the narrative and win the election in November. But the calendar is against both men, and there are no assurances today that President Biden can really give Emmanuel Macron or any other European leader that they're going to assuage their fears. 
 
That an isolationist, the United States could be a reality they're dealing with. By this time next year, of course, Emmanuel Macron tried to have a strong and positive and robust relationship with then- President Trump. But even that, despite his best efforts, faltered along the way. 
 
So, there's a real realization Macron has dealt with a President Trump and knows the realities of the difficulty of how that relationship could be. So, it's hard to -- it's hard to know what precisely the nature of the conversation, but undoubtedly, it's going to be a topic, and undoubtedly Macron would look to Biden for any assurance and reaffirmation. Biden's confidence that he is going to win the election. 
 
WALKER: But at the same time, we've also seen Macron aggressively push for a self-reliance, self-determined Europe, and less dependence on Washington. I want to thank all you, gentlemen, Nic Robertson, David Sanger and Colonel Cedric Leighton for the conversation as we look at these live pictures of this welcome ceremony underway at the Arc de Triomphe. We will take a quick break, back after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:50:00] 
 
BLACKWELL: More live pictures here of President Biden and President Macron, we're going to stay on these pictures throughout the morning. This is the continuance of the welcome ceremony, where they are now and formally going around to meet some of the service members that gathered for this occasion, likely, these are more of the D-Day veterans who have been honored over the last several days. 
 
This, the 80th anniversary of that invasion in 1944, and we heard from the president in Normandy on Friday. And of course, that will -- that sentiment will flow throughout the next several days of events here in Paris. The president, I believe five days overall in France, as this both combined D-Day commemoration and the state visit. Again, we'll bring you these live pictures as events continue throughout the day. 
 
WALKER: Let's go to CNN international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson, who is back with us now from London. Let's talk about that speech, Nic, that we heard on Friday from Biden, a really impassioned speech against isolationism, but also, he had a message to Americans about fighting democracy, continuing to carry that torch of fighting democracy, and obviously a veiled reference to Donald Trump.
 
ROBERTSON: Yes, there was that veiled reference running all the way through it, but also a message to the young people, not just at the United States, but in all democracies. You remember that President Biden came to office talking about a moment, an inflection point in history where people can choose between democracies and autocracies. 
 
And through his presidency with Putin's invasion in Ukraine, that's become very apparent, and the 80th anniversary was of D-Day, was perhaps the best way to kindle that idea in a younger population that here before you in these near hundred-year-old veterans were once upon a time, young men who stood up to the test of their moment in time.
 
And President Biden saying very clearly that you know, you may need to stand up and not necessarily fight for your democracy, but he said freedom doesn't come for free. So, there's a price to pay. We heard at the ceremonies on Thursday, you know, a Navy lieutenant commander saying -- relieving, if you will, the veterans of their -- of their -- of their duty, saying we've got the watch.
 
But with that watch comes a price, and this is really what President Biden was talking about. But it is in essence his message to his European partners as well, that under my watch, as U.S. President, we've got your back, we support you. The alliance is strong, the alliance is important, being united is the way to stand up to Putin, who President Zelenskyy compared to Nazi time Adolf Hitler. 
 <br>[06:55:00]
 
And for that reason, I think there was a broad resonance, but really, you could tell, certainly, that there was perhaps more in this for domestic U.S audience than there was for an international audience who'd heard the speeches the prior day. 
 
But really, the need not just in the United States, but in Europe as well to awaken that idea in younger generations here in the U.K., for example, elections coming up, the prime minister is talking about re- bringing it back in again, national service, Britain's army is at a post-World War II low point, more than just around about sort of 60,000 troops, not enough to feel the big fighting force should NATO call for it. 
 
So, leaders are looking around for ways to invigorate younger generations to recognize that there could be a test like this coming, and that was -- that was the -- that was perhaps a strongest thrust of what President Biden was speaking about. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes, President Macron spending a few minutes now talking with Secretary of State Antony Blinken there in the center of your screen. Of course, we learned from the State Department that Secretary Blinken will be heading to the Mid-East for the eighth visit since the start of the war between Israel and Hamas to again, try to get those two sides to a ceasefire deal, something that will likely be part of the conversation between Presidents Biden and Macron. 
 
Nic Robertson, thank you for the reporting and analysis there. We will stay with you throughout the morning and continue to stay with these live pictures of this state visit. We're back after a quick break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)