Headline: Erin Burnett Outfront
Sub-headline: Harris, Trump Hold Dueling Rallies In Battleground Nevada; Obama Slams Trump; Trump's Growing Debt. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired October 31, 2024 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[19:00:34]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN HOST:  OUTFRONT next:
 
Breaking news, dueling rallies in Nevada as Harris seizes on Trump's latest promised to women.
 
And former President Obama slamming Donald Trump as he makes the case for voters of color to support the VP.
 
Plus, a new report revealing Trump has really $2 billion in debt, a number that has ballooned since he left the White House and his growing by millions every month. 
 
Let's go OUTFRONT.
 
(MUSIC)
 
HILL:  Good evening. I'm Erica Hill, in for Erin Burnett.
 
OUTFRONT tonight, breaking news: both candidates holding rallies, right now in the key battleground, state of Nevada. Kamala Harris about to take the stage in Reno. Trump is in Henderson right now. 
 
This election, of course, is, as you know, a dead heat and new CNN polling tonight from Georgia shows that is the case there. As you can see, no clear leader, 47 to 48 percent, those numbers actually reversed in new CNN polling from North Carolina and both these states within the margin of error. 
 
This is, of course, an election where as of tonight, look at this nearly 61 million Americans have already voted and we do know the majority of voters to this point in the battleground states, they're women, accounting for 55 percent of the ballots cast, so far.
 
Harris, just moments ago, taking on Trump when it comes to his recent comments about treatment of women. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  There's a saying that got to listen to people when they tell you who you are, where they are and this is not the first time he has told us who he is. He does not believe women should have the agency and authority to make decisions about their own bodies. This is the same man who said, women should be punished for their choices. He simply does not risk back the freedom of women or the intelligence of women to know what's in their own best interests and make decisions of courts accordingly. 
 
But we trust women. We trust women.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  That comment perhaps in response to this from the former president.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We're going to protect the women of our country. I want to protect the women. Sir, please don't say that. Why? They said we think it's -- we think it's very inappropriate for you to say, sir. Why? I'm president, I want to protect the women of our country. 
 
They said, sir, I just think it's inappropriate for you to say. I pay these guys a lot of money. Can you believe it? And I said, well, I'm going to do it whether the women like it or not, I've got to protect them.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  Our correspondents are in Nevada at candidate rallies tonight. 
 
I want to begin this hour with Priscilla Alvarez in North Las Vegas where Harris will have another rally tonight. Singer and actress Jennifer Lopez is among the celebrities expected to be on and hand. 
 
Priscilla, what more do we know from the campaign about what we should expect tonight.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, in talking to senior campaign officials, what they all say is that right now their focus is on mobilization, getting out the vote. And, of course, the timing for this rally is no coincidence. Tomorrow early in-person voting in Nevada ends and mail-in ballots will continue. But then in- person voting will commence again on Tuesday. 
 
So this is a last push by the vice president here in Nevada to capitalize again on early voting and urge people to go to the polls. Now you mentioned there, they're bringing the star power, Jennifer Lopez, but also Mexican band Mana. 
 
Now, there has been a groundswell of support for the vice president over recent days from Latino celebrities because of those remarks made by a comedian at former President Donald Trump's New York City rally earlier this week, assailing Puerto Rico, the campaign also using those comments in ads. 
 
But again, all of this to appeal to Latino voters because they are crucial in a state like Nevada and also Arizona and in Nevada, particularly, polls show that the vice president and the former president are about evenly split. Now the vice president is trying to make sure that she can gain that edge on the former president in a state where voters are going to be key. 
 
Now, of course, he's going to bring that same message we've heard over the course of the day criticizing the former president for his remarks on women and doubling down on reproductive rights as she has done on the campaign trail. But she's also expected to talk about immigration. She did this earlier for in Arizona.
 
Of course, this has been an issue that the former president has seized on and use to criticize her and the Biden administration. 
 <br>[19:05:06]
 
So she certainly is trying to urge tried to take ownership of this issue Dubai saying that she is for strengthening border security, but she's also open to pathways to citizenship for immigrants are expect a message like that to also come through tonight as again, she tries to appeal to Latinos in this crucial state, a state, by the way, that president Joe Biden only narrowly won in 2020.
 
HILL:  Priscilla, thank you. 
 
Alayna Treene, OUTFRONT, at the Trump rally in Henderson, in Nevada. 
 
So Alayna, in terms of the Trump campaign, what are they saying we can expect tonight? 
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  Well, similar to what Priscilla said, their strategy as well, is all about turnout right now, they tell me behind the scenes that they recognize there's really not much they can do which we now and next Tuesday, that is going to turn the tide of this election. They're really focused on turning out their voters and seeing if they can make a difference on the margins with particular demographics.
 
That's why you saw Donald Trump go not only is he in this West Coast swing, he's about to take the stage in Nevada later, hoping can Arizona, but he also visited New Mexico, which is a bit surprising given its considered a Democratic border saying. However, that was really where Donald Trump and his campaign thought that they could further make inroads with Hispanic voters in this country. Of course, a demographic that is crucial to both sides winning.
 
And Trump's campaign is recognized and I said as of now, they want a race. Harris is lead with Hispanic men. So that is really something they're trying to further make gains on. However of course, that visit came as Donald Trump is still and his team are still trying to clean up some of what was said at that Madison Square Garden rally on Sunday and Trump himself acknowledged, kind of said the quiet part out loud in New Mexico, arguing that he came here to back up his credentials with Hispanic and Latino voters. 
 
Take a listen to how he put it, Erin. 
 
(BEGINVIDEO CLIP) TRUMP:  Don't make me waste a whole damn half a day here, okay? Look, I came here, you know, we can be nice to each other or we could talk turkey. Let's talk turkey, okay? First of all, Hispanics love Trump. I'm here for one simple reason. I like you very much and it's good for my credentials with the Hispanic or Latino community. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE:  So clearly there, Erin, he's not still, you know -- or excuse me, Erica, he is not trying to clean up those remarks. He has an apologized for those remarks that were made by that comedian over the weekend. But this is his way of trying to kind of smooth relations. Unclear if that's working that type of language works, but I guess well see come next week -- Erica.
 
HILL:  We will -- we will see on Tuesday and in the days to come as this votes get counted. Alayna, thank you.
 
And we've got everyone here with us tonight to discuss.
 
Marc, let me start with you when we look at Donald Trump really leaning and picking up where Alayna left off there leaning in, right to the Latino vote, how much does that help him in a state that he actually lost twice, right, if we're talking about New Mexico, when he's got five days to go until the election?
 
MARC LOTTER, FORMER TRUMP 2020 DIRECTOR OF STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: Well, I think there's multiple reasons. Number one, New Mexico really got close in 2016. I actually thought it might have been a state that could be flipped in '20. Now that didn't happen, so I think there is movement there, also a very competitive House race, and I think that's actually the bigger reason because the one thing people forget about these rallies as we get the data from all the people who were there, they can go to that campaign now that congressional campaign, you were at the rally, make sure you get out the vote, bring your friends.
 
HILL:  Yeah, and the key here is, as we know, as we just heard from both candidates, at this point, it is all about getting out the vote, getting people to the polls, especially if there your supporters. 
 
Speaking of support, in terms of growing support among Latino voters with the GOP, Donald Trump is up. Wait, strongest, showing more popular than any GOP nominee in 20 years. And we're seeing that growing support and down-ballot races.
 
How concerning is that? 
 
STEVE ISRAEL (D), FORMER U.S. REPRESENTATIVE:  Well, look in an election where every single battleground state is virtually tied to the last voter, every single one, you, my party cant afford to leave a single vote on that razors edge. So we've got to go after every single voter. 
 
There has been a slight erosion of support for Democrats among Hispanic voters. Barack Obama got about 70 percent. Joe Biden did worse than that, didn't reach 70 percent, had some issues and challenges in the Rio Grande Valley, but he won the election.
 
They -- it's a very important constituency. I am a New Yorker. Madison Square Garden is in New York. That is where Donald Trump's rally featured a comedian who called Puerto Rico garbage. That is not a good way of turning out Hispanic voters. 
 
What Donald Trump is doing today, New Mexico is trying to mop up after that but there are other issues that are of concern to those voters. And I think both campaigns are going to be litigating those issues. 
 
One other thing were doing well with Hispanic women and that's why you see the litigation on issues like choice continuing to be prosecuted across the across demographics. 
 <br>[19:10:08]
 
HILL:  When we talk about women, thank you for the segue, by the way, Harris really leaning in right slamming Donald Trump over these comments about protecting women, quote, whether the women like it or not, I just want to play a little bit more of what she had to say at that Phoenix rally short time ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  He's simply does not respect the freedom of women or the intelligence of women to know what's in their own best interests and make decisions accordingly.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  Again, there is such a small slice of the pie at this point that remains undecided. I'm not sure it's more than a crumb, frankly, but highlighting that, right. This also speaks to this issue from both campaigns of if you support me, I need your vote. This is why she's going after it 
 
JANE COASTON, CNN CONTRIBUTOR:  Yeah, and I think that its important to highlight that so much of this is a reflection of were still going back to that Madison Square Garden rally because something that I think missed is how many of the speakers I talked about Kamala Harris as being -- and I hate to say it -- a prostitute, a low IQ prostitute. They repeatedly -- Kamala Harris's intelligence has been insulted again and again and again, including by Donald Trump, who literally called her mentally challenged.
 
And so, I think that this is about -- you know, we've been talking but how there aren't really that many undecided voters where people are deciding vote or not. And I think for a host of women, for a host of people, the Madison Square Garden rally, which get, you know -- Megyn Kelly actually made this point. So did Nikki Haley. 
 
It was a bro-fest. It was a bro-fest and an election in which I think gender is going to be a real determinant of who wins. And I think that highlighting these comments and highlighting the fact of how much Trump's campaign seems to be going back to the well of working class white men over and over and over again and leaving even white women out in the dust, I think that that's something that Harris campaign is going to continue to do. 
 
HILL:  And speaking of gender, I think its interesting because we heard from Charlie Kirk, of course, a Trump ally, warning that the early vote is quote, disproportionately female and urging men to vote to prevent a Harris victory. 
 
I mean, look, Marc, we know this, right? There are more women registered to vote in this country than there are men and women turnout in higher numbers for elections. So the reality is, most years, yes, women do decide. I shouldn't be shocked and get at the same time, it's always -- there's always an element of oh, yes, we're seeing the quiet part out loud again. I mean, how dare women helped decide an election.
 
LOTTER:  Oh, I think women will absolutely decide this election, but I think they're not deciding it on what Democrats hope they're deciding they think every woman believes the same thing on one single issue where so many of them are struggling to pay for gas and groceries. 
 
They're worried about their safety because of the open border, millions of illegal immigrants allowed in by Kamala Harris. They're worried about public safety and they know because Donald Trump is not a hypothetical candidate, he has a record. Things were cheaper. Border was secure, world was safer when he was in office. 
 
And so I think when they -- aside from those two small groups on both sides of the life in the abortion issue, the vast majority have been making decision about something else. 
 
HILL:  I see you smiling, jump in there.
 
ISRAEL:  I can't believe I'm saying this, but Charlie Kirk is right.
 
HILL:  OK, tell us -- tell us more, Congressman.
 
ISRAEL:  Look, there's a 14-point gender gap right now in the early vote. Now the early vote is, as you know, it's not dispositive. It gives you a sense of what's happening at a particular moment. But a 14-point gender gap in early voting, 60 million people having cast their vote.
 
What's important is not the 14 points, but where's it coming from. And if it's coming from the moderate suburbs of Milwaukee, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Maricopa County, Arizona, if its starting to come from Clark County in Las Vegas to counter the significant advantage, Republicans have an early voting in the rural counties, the counties of Las Vegas, that's a very good sign for Democrats. 
 
Those women are coming out because the closing argument of this as a president who tried to, who already tried to repeal Roe versus Wade and didn't go even further. That argument is a compelling argument for women who are trying to make a judgment on who to vote for.
 
HIILL:  As we look at all of this, there have been even just this week, were seeing more endorsements. We see J-Lo was going to be there with the vice president tonight. Jane, when we look at this, we also I believe was just today, Michael
 
 Bloomberg, LeBron James coming out just tonight in endorsing the vice president. I'm just curious. What do you make of especially these very late in the game endorsements? How much could they actually push somebody to make sure they get to the polls? 
 
COASTON:  I think it's a worthwhile reminder and looked like, you know, we were talking a little bit about early voting. Let's keep in mind that according to early voting in 2016, Hillary Clinton was going to win West Virginia. She did not win West Virginia, but I think like these endorsements, lets keep in mind the Election Day is Tuesday. 
 <br>[19:15:03]
 
I know many people have been voting for weeks, but Election Day is actually Tuesday, so I think it still matters. And I think that for many people, it's interesting somewhat my co-panelists talking about what people remember of the Trump administration and LeBron's video is what I remember of the Trump administration. I remember the vitriol and remember the anger and remember at 5:00 p.m. Eastern, every single day, the craziest thing you'd ever heard of what happened. And I remember what that felt like every single day. 
 
And I think Democrats pushed back in 2017, 2018, they did it again in 2020 to win back the White House. And so I think that these late endorsements, I don't think celebrities actually move that many votes, no matter what Trump thinks about Taylor Swift, but I actually think that its more of a reminder, its more saying like, hey, we're all involved in this. We're all paying attention to this. Steph Curry spoke at the DNC, like I think that this it's just more momentum moving forward reminding people like you can still get involved, you can still vote.
 
HILL:  It is -- I have to say the number is, if nothing else, it really shows -- it's an interesting look at the enthusiasm, nearly 61 million people at this point. Nthing to sneeze at, great to have you all here tonight. Thank you.
 
OUTFRONT next, the campaign setting their sights on Wisconsin. Next vote will be there tomorrow. And for some voters there, the end to this election cannot come soon enough.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm ready for it to be over. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We really want to close this chapter in history.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  Plus the path to 270. Harry Enten joining us at the magic wall with some brand new numbers and why Cory Booker says this race is unlike any he's seen. The New Jersey senator is my guest.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:20:59]
 
HILL:  Live pictures there from Reno in battleground Nevada were Kamala Harris is about to take the stage. Both Harris and Trump in Nevada tonight, but they're both going be in Wisconsin tomorrow. 
 
Our Jeff Zeleny is on the ground there tonight for a closer look at what voters really want. Jeff is OUTFRONT with the latest installment of our voters OUTFRONT series.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVE FLANNERY, WISCONSIN VOTER:  I'm ready for it to be over. 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Dave Flannery is exhausted by the election. 
 
FLANNERY:  It's getting more and more difficult to listen to all vitriol and that sort of thing.
 
ZELENY:  From his apple orchard in battleground Wisconsin, he's at a front row seat to the caustic campaign when we met earlier this year, Flannery was fed up with the political division and dysfunction. 
 
FLANNERY:  What else can you think about it? It's a mess. 
 
ZELENY:  How does it get fixed?
 
FLANNERY:  I wish I knew.
 
ZELENY:  With the election days away, we paid another visit. He said he's voting for Kamala Harris. 
 
Is it a vote for Vice President Harris or against Donald Trump?
 
FLANNERY:  For Harris. No, let me rephrase that, both. Both. Yeah.
 
ZELENY:  It's a vote against Trump and for Harris? 
 
FLANNERY:  Yes.
 
ZELENY:  The fight is on for Wisconsin.
 
HARRIS:  Are we ready to win?
 
ZELENY:  Harris and Trump set to make dueling visits Friday.
 
TRUMP:  We're winning, we're winning.
 
ZELENY:  For the second time in three days.
 
CAROLINE QUINLAN, WISCONSIN VOTER:  I don't want to make any predictions because I think it's that close.
 
ZELENY:  Caroline Quinlan does not see a perfect option on either ticket. When we spoke this summer, her frustrations were clear. 
 
QUINLAN:  Both parties have their extreme side and no ones in the middle.
 
ZELENY:  From her vantage point in the critical suburbs of Milwaukee no longer dominated by Republicans alone, she said, issues are driving her decision.
 
QUINLAN:  I'm going to vote for Trump. You know, when he talks in that big arena, sometimes I'm like, I wish you would tone down his rhetoric and everything but at the end of the day, I want a person that's going to fix the economy, border and then national security.
 
ZELENY:  A year long conversation with voters paint, say more nuanced picture of the electorate. For one, the gender gap is hardly absolute. 
 
BRUCE NEAD, WISCONSIN VOTER FOR HARRIS:  January 6, which was a direct threat, and that's our democracy, trying to overthrow a legal election. That was it for me.
 
ZELENY:  To win the Harris coalition depends upon people like Bruce Nead, raised in a Republican family whose front yard makes his disdain for the former president clear.
 
And Tiffany Koehler, a Republican who is casting a rare vote for the Democratic presidential candidate. 
 
TIFFANY KOEHLER, WISCONSIN REPUBLICAN VOTER FOR HARRIS:  We used to be the party of limited government. We used to be that party of fiscal responsibility. I know there's a lot of Republicans voting for the vice president because we really want to close this chapter in history.
 
ZELENY:  For Trump, the path to victory not only depends on strength in deep red rural areas, but whether he diminishes Democratic margins in the suburbs outside Madison.
 
Brandon Maly leads the Republican Party in fast-growing Dane County. 
 
BRANDON MALY, CHAIR, DANE COUNTY, WI REPUBLICAN PARTY:  People think of Madison a such a traditional liberal bastion, but you get outside of Madison, Dane County is the second most populated county. If he does not get at least 23 percent of the vote in Dane County, he will not win Wisconsin. If he gets 25 percent or above. He wins, guaranteed.
 
ZELENY:  The campaign draws to a close with many wildcards, including third-party candidates like Robert F. Kennedy Jr., whose name remains on the ballot. 
 
ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR. (I), FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I don't want your vote. I want you to vote for Donald Trump.
 
ZELENY:  Back at the Apple Holler Orchard, Flannery sees a hopeful light at the end of a dark campaign. 
 
FLANNERY:  It's more than about politics. The future of the country is more important than whether you're Republican or Democrat.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL:  I love this piece.
 
So, Jeff, how does -- remind us Wisconsin factor into each campaigns strategy in these final days?
 
ZELENY:  Well, Erica, for Vice President Harris, it is her strongest path to winning that to 270 electoral votes. 
 <br>[19:25:05]
 
Of course, Wisconsin, along with the rest of the so-called blue wall states, that's Michigan and Pennsylvania. 
 
For Donald Trump, he would like to block her victory here and also recreate his win from 2016.
 
For all the differences between Donald Trump's first run and his second, it is the blue wall, Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania. He won all of those the first time around. He lost them all the second time around. 
 
So this of course will be the sort of deciding factor there. But as we've been talking to voters throughout the year for our Voters OUTFRONT series, it is clear that many of the issues have remained the same. The economy, border and inflation, but something's also have changed -- gas is one of them. It is now below $3 a gallon here in Wisconsin and nationally, that is a big difference. 
 
So as voters go to the polls, more than 1 million Wisconsin voters have already voted early. They have all these things its on their mind, but it's clearly a key part of the strategy. Both Harris and Trump are back here tomorrow night -- Erica. 
 
HILL:  Yeah, it certainly. Jeff, appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
OUTFRONT next, former President Obama making a last-ditch appeal to Black and Latino voters.
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  You have in Donald Trump somebody who consistently has shown disregard to people who are not like him.
 
(END AUDIO CLIP)
 
HILL:  So will it work? I'll ask Senator Cory Booker.
 
And Trump's debt is growing by the day. A new report on who he owes, and just how much.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:30:53]
 
HILL:  Tonight, Kamala Harris urging voters in the key swing state of Arizona to end the Trump era.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  My opponent is also making his closing argument to America and you've probably seen a bit of it. It is an argument that is full of hate and division. It is time then to turn the page on Donald Trump. We are done with that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  Meantime, brand new polling from CNN shows Harris and Trump neck and neck in two other battleground states, Georgia and North Carolina. 
 
Harry Enten is OUTFRONT now at the magic wall. 
 
So, Harry, pivotal as we know, these states, but just put them in context for us in terms of what they could mean. 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER:  Yeah, I got Georgia. Georgia on my mind as Ray Charles used to say.
 
Look, as Jeff was talking about in the last segment, the big blue wall runs through the Great Lake battleground states. That's Kamala Harris's best path. You know, Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, that would get Kamala Harris to 270 electoral votes. 
 
But let's just say there's some leakage in that great big blue wall. Let's just say the Kamala Harris loses in Michigan, will then she drops below 270 electoral votes. But you know what get a right back over it. Let's just say we give the state of North Carolina. She gets up to 271 electoral votes. 
 
So the bottom line is the Southeast states can very much sort of prove as a backup path potentially for Kamala Harris. 
 
Let's just say were going to put Michigan back in a blue, but we get Pennsylvania way to Donald Trump. Now, Kamala Harris is again south of 270 electoral votes. Well, what can sub in? Will why don't we give it the state of Georgia, right? It went blue last time. That gets Kamala Harris well above 270 electoral votes. 
 
The bottom line is this, look, Kamala Harris is best path to 270 electoral votes still runs through that great big blue wall up here in the Great Lakes states. But the southeast provides this backup to her.
 
One little last nugget I'll sort of point out to you, you know, were talking about the importance of Georgia and North Carolina, when was the last time a Republican won without Georgia? You've got to go all the way back to 1980. Of course, Jimmy Carter was the Democratic nominee, not a big surprise. He carried assault. 
 
How about North Carolina? You have to go all the way back to 1956. So, the idea that Donald Trump can win without carrying the state of North Carolina. History would suggest that ain't going to happen. HILL:  All right. So when we look at that too, look, there's been a
 
 lot made about different voting blocs in this country. I know you specifically okay. Debt black voters when it comes to Kamala Harris in both of those states, why do you say there are warning signs? 
 
ENTEN:  Why are there warning signs? Well, I'll tell you why they're warning signs. Lets take a look here. This is Democrat versus Donald Trump among African American voters in Georgia, North Carolina average, you go back to November 2020. Look at that Joe Biden carried in by 80 points. 
 
Right now, Kamala Harris, on average, our CNN polls has a lead of just 65 points. If Donald Trump ends up winning in Georgia and North Carolina, it could be because Kamala Harris struggle, but black voters in the southeast, just as we've seen throughout the national polling as well, Erica.
 
HILL:  All right. So look at all this though, Donald Trump campaigning in New Mexico, we talked about this a little bit at the top of the show. Has it got red since 2004 for George W. Bush? Does it make sense for Donald Trump to be their at this stage in the race?
 
ENTEN:  I don't really think so. Well, first off, why don't we just point out a few obvious things right? Lets talk about new Mexico and the results that we've had there recently.
 
Look, the 2020 result, Joe Biden won by 11 points. The 2024 forecast has Kamala Harris winning by seven points. So it's not a particularly close race. And more than that, Erica, get this even if we flip New Mexico over to red, look, we went from 283 to Kamala Harris getting 278. There are very few electoral votes in New Mexico. 
 
I know Donald Trump though some interesting things, but this is certainly think one of the outer ones as far as I'm concerned. 
 
HILL:  All right. Harry, thanks. 
 
ENTEN:  Thank you 
 
HILL:  OUTFRONT now, Democratic Senator Cory Booker, he has supporting Kamala Harris for president.
 
Senator, nice to have you with us this evening. 
 
So looking at some of this new CNN polling out today for Georgia, North Carolina, Donald Trump has an edge among likely voters when it comes to bring the kind of change the country needs, 46 percent versus 41 percent for the vice president and also holds a slim lead within the margin of error on which candidate shares their vision for the country, we're looking at 44 percent versus 41 or 42 for the vice president. 
 <br>[19:35:04]
 
She talks a lot about looking forward and about her vision for the future. That poll though is just done within the last week, does it concern
 
 you at all about how it is perhaps not registering and are you confident she could turn that around the next few days?
 
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ):  I mean, gosh, I'm almost dizzy from the pollercoaster. Everyday seen different polls. It's just too much.
 
And you and I both know statistically they go from a set of modeling where they, who they think is going to turn out. There's nothing usual about this election as I crisscross the country, I am seeing what is the makings of a very different kind of turnout model where there's going to be a lot more participation and a lot of different groups than we normally expect. 
 
HILL:  Put that in terms of turnout and what you expect to see on Tuesday when it comes to numbers for Kamala Harris? 
 
BOOKER:  Yeah. Look, we know she's going to win the popular vote. I think it's almost been conceded by the other side. Most Americans are going to vote for her. 
 
But strategically, there's about seven states that she's really working on the ground to get the vote out. And I've visited pretty much all of them and have seen just things that I really haven't seen since President Obama ran in his first time. I could people coming up to me that break down in tears just with their sense of joy or their sense of fear about what's at stake. 
 
And so, I think people understand what's at stake and that's actually moving turnout. And I tell you what these last few days I've heard from a lot of leaders in the Latino community who weren't as engaged, who were now downright ticked off and I said, you know, as Popeye, he says, I've had all I can stand and I can't stand no more. 
 
HILL:  Well, speaking of Latino voters, it's what we saw this week. There's been so much made, of course, about support among not just Latino voters, but also among black voters. This week, actually just today, for President Obama weighing in, he spoke on Reverend Al Sharpton is radio show just a short time ago. I want to play a little bit of what he had to say. 
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
OBAMA:  You have in Donald Trump, somebody who consistently shown disregard to people who are not like him. I don't have to tell you. This is somebody who has made a career out, demeaning and talking about and treating people of color in ways that indicate he does not think they necessarily are full members of the American community. 
 
(END AUDIO CLIP)
 
HILL:  You know, the vice president said earlier this week in the Breakfast Club, she doesn't see any problem when it comes to support among Black men. I know you're not a fan of polling, but I'm going to throw a little bit more data at you, because we do have it out new today in averaging what we see in Georgia, North Carolina, and this new CNN poll support for Black voters, likely voters for Kamala Harris is averaging about 65 percentage points, so above Donald Trump. But in 2020 for Joe Biden, that number was 80 percentage points.
 
Does any of that concern you about a shift? 
 
BOOKER:  Well, again, you and I both know polls and numbers, it really doesn't talk about what the denominator is, how big is that 65 percent when the turnout goes up, you're talking a lot, a lot more people voting and these last days, something has really shifted. I think that he really touched a long-standing ache and hurt that our communities have for being talked down to demean and degraded. 
 
It was almost like a reminder. Remember who this guy was you remember the kind of things he's said? Going back to the central park five, going back to birtherism, which he led against, against Barack Obama. Do you really trust this guy to have your back when he has done so many things repeatedly, all the way up until this Madison Square Garden consistently, that has kicked you in the gut, looked down upon you who and done things that seem so overtly racist? 
 
So I just -- I really trust that the most loyal voting base, the Democratic Party has ever had is in the black community. But right now I think he's really given people caused to pause and to feel more of a sense of urgency to defend nor communities from people who looked down at us with such bigoted ways.
 
HILL:  You released a video with Senator Jon Tester, who may be the most vulnerable Democrats at this point seeking reelection. I'm going to play a little bit of that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOOKER:  This guy will fight you.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  I'm going to out in limb here and say maybe stunt man is not the best day job but in all seriousness, when you look at that state, right. And when we look at the state of affairs, when it comes to the Senate and holding on to control how concerned are you about that uphill climb right now for Democrats? 
 
BOOKER:  I will always bet on Tester. The reality is his state is about the size population-wise of the county I grew up here in New Jersey, one of our 21 counties and people know Jon Tester. Look, my chief of staff is in Montana right now on the ground. They're closing the numbers when they're official polling that you see out there? But more than that, they're bumping into so many Republicans. They just know him, trust him and believe in him.
 
And what Republicans I think they made a mistake. They've been from Wisconsin, the person they have running against Tammy Baldwin to Montana, what they have is they bring these multi-multi-millionaires who are better known and other states they kind of plop in and try to run these outsiders. 
 <br>[19:40:17]
 
Jon Tester is real salt of the earth and the great thing about his reputation in the Senate is indeed he will, when it comes to defending Montana, he doesn't care if he's fighting a Democrat or Republican. He fights for Montana. 
 
So if anybody can win in that state because if they're authentically independent spirit, it's Jon Tester. 
 
HILL:  I'm going to ask you one quick question. You said he sees catching up in the polling. I believe he said in the state. Does that mean that polling's okay? 
 
BOOKER:  No, it's not. I mean, he would tell he has told me he doesn't give a damn, and he too has running against the opponent that said like most vile things about Native Americans and others. And people are responding to that. They want somebody that loves all of Montana, not just certain parts.
 
HILL:  Senator Cory Booker, good to have you with us tonight, thank you. 
 
BOOKER:  Thank you. Thank you.
 
HILL:  OUTFRONT next, Trump drowning in debt. That is growing by millions of dollars every month. So could his social media platform his life raft?
 
And first on OUTFRONT, Harris volunteers in Georgia say they are fighting against a fire of disinformation. How they're working to put it out.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:45:45]
 
HILL:  Tonight, Donald Trump's ballooning debt, a new Forbes breakdown of his finances. It shows Trump owes more than $1.8 billion. Number that's actually exploded just since he left the White House.
 
OUTFRONT now, Forbes senior editor Dan Alexander, who has been poring through Trump's finances. 
 
So, Dan, a lot of this debt actually comes from legal judgments, $454 million to the state of New York after being found liable for fraud, and he's actually racking up millions its more in interest. Walk us through what else is there?
 
DAN ALEXANDER, FORBES SENIOR EDITOR:  Yeah, that's exactly right. Now, the biggest one is that 45 plus the interest you get to 482 and you do his real estate portfolio. He has 360 against a tower in San Francisco, many of these buildings have lots of debt on, but there's also the E. Jean Carroll case where two cases where he lost and it was ordered to pay $88.5 million. Interest is also accruing on that. So, if you put those two legal judgments together, just those things
 
 alone. You're right about $575 million and then you have all the real estate stuff on top of that. 
 
HILL:  So let's say even if we cases under appeal, right? So there's a chance that that changes. So if we put that aside, the legal judgments, even mentioning the real estate business, what really stands out to you most in terms of the debt there? 
 
ALEXANDER:  The one that I think will be potentially most troublesome for Trump is connected to 40 Wall Street. So he has $118 million of debt against that building in his leasehold interests in the building, we estimate is only worth $116 million. So it looks like the building is a little bit underwater. And that debt comes due in July of next year. 
 
So he's got to figure out a solution here. Pretty quickly. There are two options. One is he could go find a bank to refinance the loan. Banks are going to be pretty skeptical of refinancing and old aging office building where the occupancy is going down since COVID, or he can pay for it himself. He has about $400 million in cash. 
 
Also, these legal judgments hanging over his head is he really wanted to tie up, say, $120 million paying off this debt? That's going to be tough for him to do. But in any case, he's going to have to figure out some solution here, as he's rounding the corner into 2025. 
 
HILL:  So he talks a lot about just how much cash he has. Bottom line, does he actually have enough cash to cover these debts you know, the big question is whether or not he sells off shares of the Trump Media and Technology Group, the parent company to Truth Social. 
 
Right now, he has about $410 million in cash, but he has $1.8 billion in liabilities so is going to have to sell something. And those shares right now, now they move a ton, but today were worth over $4 billion. That makes up the majority of his fortune right now.
 
If he sells a big chunk of those especially if it's before the election when people are really excited about it, and its trading really high, he could easily pocket a half billion, $1 billion. And then he wouldn't have to worry about debt concerns at all. If instead he hangs onto them than he might be in trouble. 
 
HILL:  What are the chances though if that happening?
 
ALEXANDER:  Of him selling, you never know. I mean, it would from a business perspective, it would make sense for him to sell them. This is a guy who needs cash and he's got a huge asset. And these are liquid shares he should sell these from strictly a business perspective. 
 
Also, he can sell a big portion of his shares and still hanging onto a big portion of the company. So, it just makes a lot of sense, but it would send the signal that he's not fully behind it maybe doesn't fully believe in it. And Donald Trump doesn't like to project weakness. So what's -- how do you predict how Donald Trump's ego plays into all
 
 of that? That's very difficult question to answer. 
 
HILL:  Yes. I'd be interesting to see. and fascinating that some of these zones, including the one you mentioned, 40 Wall Street coming up next summer, and that has a lot to think about. 
 
Really appreciate, Dan. Thank you.
 
OUTFRONT next -- OUTFRONT next, first, on OUTFRONT, in battleground Georgia, the Harris campaign meeting young voters, where they are.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Kamala HQ is my favorite TikTok page right now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  But will the likes translate to votes?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:53:56]
 
HILL:  Tonight, Georgia leading in the way in early voting, new numbers into CNN show more than three-and-a-half million actually get that more than 3.6 million so far, have cast their ballots in the Peach State, nearly 75 percent by the way of the total number of people who voted in 2020. 
 
And boy, is an important, as we noted, both candidates of the state virtually tied as we have seen in multiple polls, both candidates campaign stops are scheduled in Georgia for the weekend.
 
For Harris, her strategy includes targeting parts of the state which are often overlooked. 
 
Here's Phil Mattingly OUTFRONT.
 
(BEGIN VICDOTAPE)
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF DOMESTIC AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is not the center of Georgia's political universe, but drive 250 miles from Atlanta down Interstate 16, and you'll find a key component of the Harris campaign strategy to keep the state blue. 
 
Said don't sleep on I-16. 
 
DEREK MALLOW (D), GEORGIA STATE SENATOR:  Yeah. I don't sleep on I-16, baby. When you ride down at I-16 on that little two-lane road to get to Savannah, you find out were doing some down here.
 
MATTINGLY:  Savannah operates at a decidedly more leisurely pace of life than the Atlanta metro area. 
 <br>[19:55:02] And Georgia's oldest city remained largely outside the political spotlight for years ago. 
 
Fulton County, Gwinnett County, DeKalb County.
 
Atlanta and its suburbs did fuel Joe Biden's win but Chatham County quietly served as a goldmine for Democratic votes, nearly 16,000 more than turned out here for Hillary Clinton in 2016.
 
MALLOW:  One of the things that we started saying was, hey, the coast matters this important, what we do here matter, matters are folks matter and we need and get this engagement here down on the coast because we can turn out voters, too.
 
MATTINGLY:  That message from local officials like State Senator Derek Mallow was received. 
 
So while the Harris ground campaign here leverages massive star power to try and match the massive 2020 turnout in Atlanta and its surrounding area, they have deployed Mallow and a roster, popular local leaders to boost Chatham's impressive 2020 numbers. 
 
Just this week, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz rallied supporters here, the same place. Walz embarked on his first joint campaign events with Harris in August.
 
HARRIS:  Oh, it's good to be back in Savannah.
 
MATTINGLY:  Cut off with a packed rally here where the first HBCU grads to lead a ticket. 
 
KATELYN GREEN, PRESIDENT, SAVANNAH STATE UNIVERSITY STUDENT GOVENRMENT ASSOCIATION:  I couldn't be more excited to welcome a fellow HBCU alum to our beautiful city of Savannah.
 
MATTINGLY:  Ws introduced by the student body president of the states oldest HBCU located just a few miles down the road.
 
Katelyn Green is a window into the burst of enthusiasm on the campus of Savannah State University sparked by Harris is elevation to the top of the ticket.
 
Do you think Joe Biden giving way to Kamala Harris changed how people on this campus felt about the race?
 
GREEN:  Yes, absolutely.
 
MATTINGLY:  Her role at the rally and not by the Harris campaign to the critical place young voters in this state have in the Democratic coalition. Do you think that had an impact on people wanting to support, yeah, to support the vice president? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Definitely. I think, I went with one together with our friends, we actually --  
 
MATTINGLY:  Stuck into the VIP section, right? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yeah, we did. There were incidents to students
 
 like royalty out. It was -- it felt so amazing.
 
MATTINGLY:  That wasn't an accident in one of the youngest states, the country three by median age, where young voters helped propel the states first Black senator Rafael Warnock to victory in 2022. 
 
GREEN:  I think I received more campaign messages thing you know, like actual notifications on my phone.
 
MATTINGLY:  On this campus, it wasn't the campaigns that drove critical registration and early vote efforts, inorganic and nonpartisan effort driven by students including Kayla Jordan and Janiah Henderson (ph) had been in place for months. 
 
KAYLA JORDAN, SAVANNAH STATE UNIVERSITY STUDENT:  We had shock for people. We had a music out, like people came really over just to dance and then hey, everybody to say to vote, like I was like get registered.
 
MATTINGLY:  Outside the friendly campus confines, Mallow has confronted more acute and pervasive obstacles, the campaign's expansive full state ground operation, racing the clock to make the case.
 
MALLOW:  We assume everybody knows all this stuff, but the actual reality is most people don't.
 
MATTINGLY:  Often eclipsed by a more daunting and time-consuming barrier. 
 
MALLOW:  You know, I probably spend at least 2, 3 conversations today putting out that fire of this disinformation.
 
MATTINGLY:  The concern is real for a campaign laser focused on shoring up signs of sagging support with Black men, but one Mallow has found while it can be countered.
 
MALLOW:  The former president saying he wants to law enforcement to be totally immune, well, once I explain that to Black voters, especially Black men, they're like, whoa, whoa, whoa, we don't agree with that. No. We -- no, that's a bad idea. And he said that and I pulled up the clip and I like I didn't know that.
 
MATTINGLY:  In urgent push from a campaign that isn't really necessary back on campus? 
 
GREEN:  Yes. Kamala HQ is my favorite TikTok page right now.
 
MATTINGLY:  Really?
 
And where Katelyn Green is still marveling at her once in a lifetime role at the Harris rally here summer, despite the consequences for skipping a day at labs.
 
There wasn't a note you could send a professor saying like, sorry, I have to introduce the vice president of the United States. 
 
GREEN:  No, no student first. Yes. They actually -- they don't really care that I introduce the president, you know, there were more worried about there analytical chemistry. So --  
 
MATTINGLY:  You may write a note --  
 
GREEN:  Yes, if you could please because it's hard.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTINGLY:  You know, Erica, Georgia is a study in contrast, when it comes to the ground game, not just between Trump and Harris, obviously what we saw from Harris very different from what you've seen from the Trump campaign, largely reliant on outside side groups largely reliant on Governor Brian kemps organization that detente between the two Republican camps pretty critical a few weeks ago, but also the contrast between the Harris campaign and the 2020 Biden campaign. The current campaign, the largest in state coordinated campaign and Democratic history, pushing out much further, trying to target rural voters to take down Trump's margins in his strongholds, very different from what we saw in 2020. 
 
Obviously, Biden won in 2020, Harris hoping to do the same this time around -- Erica. 
 
HILL:  We'll see how it plays out. Phil, appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
Thanks to all of you for joining us tonight. I'm Erica Hill in for Erin Burnett. 
 
Hope you're having a happy Halloween. Stay tuned. 
 
"AC360" starts right now.