Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. Secretary of State in Saudi Arabia for Gaza Talks; Biden and Netanyahu Calls Considered Constructive; Pro-Palestine Protest Intensify in U.S. Colleges; Oklahoma Tornado Outbreak Kills Four; Russia Gains Ground in Eastern Ukraine; Protests Against Georgia's Foreign Agents Bill; U.S. to Strengthen Ties With Africa; At Least 10 Dead, Dozens Missing After Dam Burst In Kenya; Record Low Sea Ice Threatens Emperor Penguin Populations; Source: Biden-Netanyahu Phone Call Was "Constructive"; Trump Vows To Reshape U.S. Government If Reelected. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired April 29, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:00]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN HOST:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States, around the world and streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead, America's top diplomat arrives in the Middle East with tall orders hoping to reach a ceasefire deal in Gaza before Israel's expected incursion into the southern city of Rafah. 
 
Tensions flare on America's college campuses as protests over Gaza expand to more schools. But are the demands from some protesters for colleges to divest from Israel actually feasible? 
 
And emperor penguins at risk. How the world's largest penguin species is severely threatened by climate change.
 
Thanks for joining us. Well, the U.S. is ramping up diplomatic pressure surrounding hostage release and ceasefire talks involving Israel and Hamas. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Saudi Arabia just a short time ago where he will meet with Arab officials. Blinken is expected to discuss aid to Gaza as well as how to achieve a, quote, "lasting peace and a pathway to a Palestinian state."
 
On Sunday, the Saudi foreign minister weighed in on solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE FAISAL BIN FARHAN AL SAUD, SAUDI MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS: The region is not going to focus only on solving the crisis of the moment. We're going to look at how we can solve the bigger problem in the context of Gaza. That is a real commitment to a two-state solution. That is a credible, irreversible path to a Palestinian state. That's the only reasonable and credible solution that guarantees us from not having to come back to this same situation two, three, four years down the line. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Also on Sunday, U.S. President Joe Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke by phone. A source told CNN the call was constructive. They focused primarily on freeing more hostages held by Hamas. But they also discussed aid to Gaza and the situation in Rafah. 
 
The U.S. wants to see a concrete plan from Israel on how civilians in Rafah would be protected in the event of a ground operation. An Israeli official told CNN the IDF will continue to prepare for that operation even if there is a hostage deal. Journalist Elliott Gotkine has more on the latest talks and how Netanyahu's decision on Rafah could affect his government's stability.
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST:  Even before Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Biden's conversation on Sunday, there was reaction in anticipation of their conversation from the hard-right ministers in his governing coalition, mainly National Security Minister Itamar Ben- Gvir and Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich, effectively saying that if Netanyahu agrees to shelve the operation to go into Rafah, the planned operation, that they would effectively leave the governing coalition, they would leave the government. 
 
Now, Israel hasn't said that it would cancel the operation. Quite the contrary. What we're hearing from officials is that even if there is a temporary ceasefire, which sees a number of Israeli hostages who were abducted on October 7th freed from captivity, that the Rafah operation would still go ahead. It would simply be postponed. 
 
Now, as Biden and Netanyahu are having their conversation, hostage talks between Israel and Hamas mediated by Egypt are ongoing. There hasn't been a breakthrough, but neither have these talks broken down. Israel and the United States saying that the stumbling block, the main stumbling block remains Hamas's insistence that for there to be a deal to free a number of hostages, that Israel has to agree to a complete cessation of hostilities and withdrawal of all of its forces from the Gaza Strip, something Netanyahu has in the past described as a delusional demand.
 
Now, at the same time, over the weekend, Hamas released yet another hostage video, this time of Israeli-American hostage Keith Siegel and also Israeli hostage Omri Miran. Now, both men, this is the first time that they've been seen, so it's the first proof of life there's been since they were abducted as part of the Hamas-led terrorist attacks of October the 7th. 
 
At the same time, they're clearly designed to galvanize the Israeli public to put pressure on the Israeli government to come to the table and to do the deal that Hamas is demanding. 
 <br>[02:05:03]
 
At the same time, it's designed to put pressure on the United States because two of the three hostages that have appeared in Hamas hostage videos over the past couple of weeks have been American citizens. 
 
Now, the other development over the weekend is the World Central Kitchen, seven of whose aid workers were killed in Israeli airstrikes earlier this month, it says it will resume its aid deliveries, its operations in the Gaza Strip on Monday because of the continued dire humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip. Elliott Gotkine, CNN, London. 
 
CHURCH:  Earlier, I spoke with CNN political and national security analyst David Sanger. I asked him about the state of the ceasefire and hostage release talks as the U.S. Secretary of State arrives in the Middle East. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID SANGER, CNN POLITICAL AND NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST:  I think the key part of this for the hostage talks is Israel, but it's all part of three moving parts here. One is whether or not Israel goes into Rafah. The second is whether or not they get the hostage deal, which at this point really has more to do with Hamas. I think Israel has signed off on the offer that the United States and European allies helped put together. 
 
And then the third piece of it is whether or not there would be a Saudi deal that would recognize Israel, which would also, of course, require that Prime Minister Netanyahu agree to a two-state solution. He sure doesn't sound like that's where his head's at right now. 
 
CHURCH:  Yeah, indeed. And of course, President Joe Biden and Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke earlier Sunday via phone, the president reiterating his clear position on the potential Rafah invasion, calling on Israel to ensure civilians are protected. But Israel says it will invade Rafah even if a hostage deal is reached. What will be the consequences of this? 
 
SANGER:  Well, if they did invade, it would, and they invaded in the six-week period that was covered by the ceasefire, it would seem to be probably a violation of the ceasefire. I don't think that's what they're discussing. If they do get the deal, and there is the six weeks, I think that would put off the Rafah invasion. Now, of course, the idea is immediately to build on the six weeks to get another six weeks or a longer ceasefire of some kind. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And we'll have more of my interview with David Sanger next hour on "CNN Newsroom." Dozens of students and children in Gaza are thanking the pro-Palestinian protesters at U.S. colleges nationwide for their support. They spray painted messages of gratitude on makeshift tents, which now serve as a shelter for displaced Palestinians in Rafah. One message reads, quote, "Thank you, students in solidarity with Gaza. Your message has reached us."
 
The demonstrations continue to grip major universities across the United States. And some of those college campuses have been shaken by unrest, like at the University of California, Los Angeles, where physical altercations broke out between protest groups after a security barrier was breached. A UCLA official says the school condemns the violence and on-site security measures have been increased. Some UCLA protesters are speaking out. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN:  We've seen it historically that when the students decide to unite, that the people will rally behind them. So, this is no surprise to me. I know that the American public is not okay with their own tax- paying dollars going to fund Israel. And they're also not okay with students paying tuition and their money going to fund Israel instead of funding their investments here as students. 
 
UNKNOWN:  We were pepper sprayed. We were pepper sprayed. And they also threw stink bombs at us. It was disgusting. Somebody stole my sign. They really, really believe in intimidating. They were trying to say they were cussing at us, saying terrible things. I believe in protests. I do. But not like this. Not like this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Meanwhile, there is deadlock at New York's Columbia University, the epicenter of these demonstrations, with student protesters saying talks with the administration have slowed. CNN's Polo Sandoval has more.
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  When you speak to the Columbia students who are actively engaged in negotiations with Columbia University, they will tell you that those talks are at an impasse. Now, they have seen some progress when it comes to some of their demands, including for complete transparency. 
 
But it's number one that is the really big sticking point here, divestment, which is they are asking for all financial ties between the university and tech or weapons companies with Israeli ties be completely cut. 
 <br>[02:10:06]
 
And if you look back through history, you will find that there have been many other calls for divestment. Some have actually been successful, including in 1968. That's when Columbia students occupied several buildings, including Hamilton Hall, that you see off in the distance by doing so, raising awareness of the Vietnam War.
 
In 2015, a yearlong campaign made Columbia University the first to divest from private prisons. And then a few years later, on those very steps that you see off in the distance in front of the library, that's where a group of climate activist students staged a hunger strike to divest from coal and fossil fuels. 
 
But perhaps one of the most successful calls for divestment came in the '80s when students called for the cutting off of financial ties between the university and South African companies during the apartheid. And that is when, once again, in Hamilton Hall, we saw this occupation of students that eventually led to a trustee vote that would make Columbia University the first Ivy League to cut said ties. 
 
And that is the kind of legacy that is certainly not lost on all of the young people that we have seen in this encampment, and is really why the reason why they are reluctant to pack up and leave. Now, in terms of Columbia University, they are certainly still under pressure. 
 
What will the administration do? Will they once again turn to the NYPD for assistance in clearing out this encampment, which previously made them the subject of an investigation from the Columbia University Senate? Or do they allow them to remain as the big graduation commencement ceremony nears in this very spot in a matter of weeks? Polo Sandoval, CNN, New York. 
 
CHURCH:  Chris Marsicano is an assistant professor of educational studies at public policy at Davidson College. He has studied the impacts of university divestments and joins me now from Davidson, North Carolina. Appreciate you being with us. 
 
CHRIS MARSICANO, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF EDUCATIONAL STUDIES, DAVIDSON COLLEGE:  Thank you so much for the opportunity, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  So, tensions are running high at various American college campuses across the country, with physical clashes now reported at UCLA between dueling protesters among their demands to end the war in Gaza and a call for colleges to disclose their financial investments and divest from Israeli companies and companies that do business in Israel, as well as weapons manufacturers. So, what does divestment mean exactly and how difficult is that process for these colleges with massive endowments? 
 
MARSICANO:  It's a great question. Divestment generally means taking whatever funds that the endowment uses out of the various different opportunities, investment opportunities that the protesters have discussed. Things like taking money out of weapons manufacturers, taking investments out of companies that are in Israel or companies that do business with Israel. Unfortunately, for the protesters, it's extraordinarily difficult to make that happen. 
 
CHURCH:  So how likely is it then that colleges will divest? It sounds like you don't think they will. How difficult is it to divest from these particular Israeli-linked companies? 
 
MARSICANO:  It is really, really hard to meet the protesters demands on this issue. So, endowment managers at nearly all-American colleges and universities, they're not stock pickers. They aren't managing an e-Trade account. They're doing what most of us who have a retirement plan are doing. They're investing in index funds and private equity. They're investing in funds that have lots of different pieces together. 
 
Because those funds are very complicated and package many investment opportunities together, it's difficult to know which firms within those funds are doing significant business in Israel. And divesting from those funds is very expensive. 
 
It's possible that new funds could be created that leave out Israeli- focused companies or companies that do business with weapons manufacturers. But so far, those packages aren't readily available to colleges and universities. 
 
CHURCH:  But many college endowments have already divested from fossil fuel companies, haven't they? So why would this be any different? And how reasonable is the demand? 
 
MARSICANO:  So, the difference between a fossil fuel company and say a company that does business in Israel is it's very clear to know what say Exxon does or BP does or what Shell does. It's not as easy to understand whether or not companies are providing services or providing goods to Israeli organizations or the Israeli Defense Force. And that's simply because we have a hard time knowing where every money is spent for every single corporation in America and beyond. 
 
In terms of fossil fuels, because of the research that we've done on fossil fuels and fossil fuel divestment, it's unclear whether fossil fuel divestment really made a dent in the political movement. 
 <br>[02:15:00]
 
So, it's entirely possible that what protesters are asking for may not only happen, but may not be effectual either. 
 
CHURCH:  Interesting. And I mean, given that, presumably, then we can expect to see more dueling protests like this across American campuses until colleges either meet these divestment demands or appear to meet them or until the war in Gaza ends whenever that may be. 
 
MARSICANO:  Exactly. Exactly. But I will say if the goal of the protesters is to put political pressure on the Israeli government, they may actually, perhaps surprisingly, be achieving that goal. So just last week, Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu stated, so what's happening on Americans colleges campuses is horrific. So, these protests have gotten the Israeli government's attention. And as schools begin to have graduation ceremonies and transition to few to no classes during the summer season, we'll see if protesters can keep that attention. 
 
CHURCH:  Right. And of course, the pressure is not only on Benjamin Netanyahu, and certainly President Joe Biden is feeling it, isn't he? I mean, this is really going to impact his campaign. 
 
MARSICANO:  Absolutely. Young people are, by and large, very worried about this conflict in Gaza. Many young voters, those that we consider to be in Gen Z, hold Joe Biden responsible for not having a ceasefire in place or a peace plan. Whether that's fair or not is for the voters to decide, but that's certainly what many in Gen Z feel. 
 
CHURCH:  Yeah. And they probably need to look at the alternative as well. Chris Marsicano, thank you so much for joining us. Appreciate it. 
 
MARSICANO:  Thank you so much, Rosemary, for having me. 
 
CHURCH:  Coming up next, deadly tornadoes leave a path of destruction across the central U.S. and the threat is not over yet. We'll bring you the latest on this severe storm system. Back with that and more in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:00]
 
CHURCH:  More than four million people in the U.S. are under tornado watches as a multi-day severe weather system continues to move across the country. According to the U.S. Storm Prediction Center, there have been nearly 500 storm reports since Thursday, including more than 135 reports of tornadoes. 
 
The storm system has already left a path of death and destruction in its wake, and some of the hardest hit communities in states like Oklahoma and Nebraska are now left picking up the pieces. CNN's Rafael Romo reports.
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Oklahoma Governor Kevin Stitt increased to four the number of storm-related deaths in his state, with one county alone reporting at least 30 injuries. Officials had earlier said there's an infant among those who died. The governor said two people died in the city of Ada, located about 85 miles southeast of Oklahoma City. 
 
A third person died in Marietta, Oklahoma, which is located on Interstate 35, about 115 miles south of Oklahoma City. The fourth person died in Sulphur, a city the governor visited on Sunday to assess the damage. Governor Stitt had earlier declared an emergency disaster in an area that includes Marietta. 
 
Altogether, the governor's declaration includes 12 counties. The declaration states that severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, hail, and flooding affected different parts of Oklahoma. The damage in Sulphur, the governor said, was hard to watch. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEVIN STITT, GOVERNOR OF OKLAHOMA:  Early reports, they think this is an F4 just kind of blowing right through downtown here, and I just haven't seen this much destruction from my time as governor. You just can't believe the destruction. It seems like every business in downtown has been destroyed now, here in Sulphur. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO:  The Oklahoma Department of Emergency Management said it has received reports of injuries, property damage, flooding, and downed power lines and trees across several counties. We're also getting new images of severe flooding in the city of Tonkawa, located about 90 miles north of Oklahoma City. And this all happened in the wake of yet another series of powerful storms that left a devastating trail of destruction in Nebraska. 
 
An Omaha resident described to CNN affiliate KETV what it was like to hear a tornado coming. UKNOWN:  Just like the movie state, it was like just a freight train.
 
 The noise was so loud. I'm not too afraid to admit it. I was crying like a baby because it was just the scariest feeling in the world. It was helpless. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO:  Elkhorn, Nebraska, was one of the hardest hit areas in the state. Nebraska Governor Jim Pillen said this weekend it is a miracle there were no deaths. Rafael Romo, CNN, Atlanta. 
 
CHURCH:  Russia's defense ministry says it's making gains in eastern Ukraine, taking over a village in the Donetsk region. That's where Ukrainian troops are facing the fiercest battles, according to the country's army chief. He says the situation on the front line has escalated, but pointed out that it's changing every day. Ukraine's army chief also described the situation in the south as tense. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky hopes incoming foreign aid will turn things around on the battlefield. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translation):  We are cooperating with our partners at all levels to achieve the level of efficiency and assistance that is needed not only to maintain our positions but also to disrupt Russia's war plan. We are still waiting for the supplies that have been promised to Ukraine. We expect the exact volume and scope of supplies that could change the situation on the battlefield in Ukraine's interests.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Zelensky went on to say his country is working with the U.S. to firm up support for the next 10 years. 
 
Protesters in Georgia are denouncing the government's efforts to force through a controversial Russian-style foreign agent's law. Thousands of people marched on Sunday against a bill they say will be used to crush dissent and civil society. 
 <br>[02:24:55]
 
If the bill passes, organizations that receive more than 20 percent of funding from abroad will be required to register as foreign agents or face huge fines. 
 
The E.U. says the bill could halt Georgia's integration into the bloc. Protesters say their future is in the West. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEVAN JOBAVA, PROTESTER (through translation):  I want to show the position of my family that we are Russia and our path and future is in Europe because we will need the European justice and the European world where the system serves the people and not the other way around. The system doesn't serve people. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  The bill faces two more readings in parliament. The next is on Tuesday. 
 
Still to come, one U.S. official says Washington is the best partner for African nations. Given the rising influence of Moscow and Beijing, not everyone seems to agree. We'll have that in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. The Biden administration is scrambling to beef up ties with Africa amid the planned withdrawal of U.S. troops from some African countries. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo traveled to Kenya last week with a message that Washington wants to ramp up trade and investment in the region. 
 <br>[02:30:03]
 
CNN's Larry Madowo sat down with the secretary for this exclusive interview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GINA RAIMONDO, COMMERCE SECRETARY:  We want to invest, we want to be the partner of choice, we're not going to force you to choose us. We think we're the best. We think we offer opportunities consistent with your values of freedom and democracy. And so, we want to be the partner that you choose to work with. 
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  So secretary, why is the U.S. the best over, say, China or Russia that also making big moves into the continent? Why the U.S. the best for African countries?
 
RAIMONDO:  Because like you, we are a democracy, you know? Like you, we believe in freedom. We believe in an open Internet. We believe in the market entrepreneurialism that you have here. There aren't strings attached. 
 
It's an opportunity to partner together and also, I mean, the U.S has best tech companies in the world, deepest capital markets, best protection of IP. So that's why we think we're the partner of choice.
 
MADOWO:  The suggestion here is that there are strings attached to these partnerships with Russia or China even though they say they don't have colonial baggage. And we want to lecture you about human rights. We're just trying to be good partners for you better than say Europe or the U.S. 
 
RAIMONDO:  You know, I just met with President Ruto, had fantastic meeting. And I said to him, we're not here to lecture, we're here to partner, we're here to learn from you. We're here to invest in your people and in your country. 
 
MADOWO:  Kenya's considering banning TikTok here, which is an issue in the West, the U.S. Congress has passed legislation to ban TikTok. I wonder what you think of that?
 
RAIMONDO:  We're doing it for national security concerns, plain and simple. We trade with China. We'll continue to trade with China. That's a good thing. 
 
TikTok collects information on every American, where they are at every time, what they watch. And that information goes back to the PRC. So it's a national security risk. That's why we did it. So, the Congress did it. And I think I'll make Americans safer.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:35:32]
 
CHURCH:  At least ten people have died and dozens are missing after a dam burst its banks in Kenya amid heavy flooding. It comes after the government said the death toll from the flooding there has now topped 100.
 
Let's get the latest now from Larry Madowo joining us by phone. 
 
So, Larry, what more are you learning about this? 
 
MADOWO:  Rosemary, we are seeing the devastation from this recent heavy rains along -- in East Africa and especially in Kenya, where the government now say is the death toll has risen to 103, but overnight, a devastating situation, just about 50 kilometers north west of Nairobi, in Mai Mahiu, Nakuru County a dam in Kijabe burst its banks and swept everything in its path. 
 
The governor of Kenya's Nakuru County telling CNN that they fear at least ten people well have been confirmed dead so far, but the exact number of the dead could be tens more. They just don't know yet. Right now, a search and rescue operation is ongoing by team so the national county government, as well as the Kenya Red Cross and other private sector emergency teams were all unseen trying to rescue as many people as possible. 
 
This happened overnight in heavy rainfall and people must have been asleep and this happened. So there must have been caught unawares by it. To add to the complication here, part of the road was cut off because of recent heavy rains. So, even access has been difficult. So this morning they've been clear in the brief from this area and trying to reach as many people as possible with these teams who had trouble getting to this theme to start with. 
 
But that is just one situation. The latest that this country has seen over the past few weeks with devastating flooding in different parts of the country. Kenya's longest and largest river, Tana River County also burst its banks and has rendered parts of the northeast and the country completely impassable. There have been very harrowing videos on social media showing people
 
 drown coming in boats trying to cross the river and then just completely getting stuff by the currents and the winds in one direction. So all across the country, across the region, a lot of concern about these flooding after this heavy rainfall, the largest that this region is seen in some time, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  Yeah. And those images certainly make it very clear how difficult this rescue of operation will continue to be. And we will continue watching this and discussing this issue with you, Larry Madowo, bringing us the very latest there. Appreciate it.
 
Well, in the coming hours, Spain's Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez is expected to announce whether he will remain in office. On Sunday, thousands of his supporters rallied in Madrid, urging him to stay on the job. He shocked the country last week when he said he was considering resigning from the premiership. That came after a Spanish court began a business corruption investigation into his wife's private dealings. 
 
Mr. Sanchez denies the allegations against his wife, saying it's part of a sustained campaign against him by political opponents.
 
The emperor penguins of Antarctica are in peril. Low levels of sea ice driven in part by climate change are threatening their breeding grounds and causing colonies to die off.
 
CNN's Lynda Kinkade has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Waddling and gliding through the Antarctic, some of these penguins have seen better days. The world's largest penguin species, emperor penguins, are severely threatened by climate change. 
 
Scientists from the British Antarctic survey say tens of thousands of emperor penguin chicks may have died, as the species battle to survive record low sea ice in 2023.
 
PETER FRETWELL, BRITISH ANTARCTIC SURVEY:  We know that they breed on sea ice. We know that sea ice is one of the first things affected as temperatures warm ocean temperature, temperatures. But we're starting to see these losses in Antarctica now. Our models are quite dire. 
 
KINKADE:  Dire because these penguins also lay their eggs and raise their chicks on sea ice. But with the ice melting away, the chicks may fall into the sea before they get their waterproof feathers, leaving them to freeze to death or drown.
 
Despite the recent losses, 2023 wasn't as bad as 2022 for the emperor penguins. Scientists say because some colonies adapted to the worsening conditions by moving south to find better ice or the more stable ice shelves or icebergs. 
 
FRETWELL:  It was reassuring that it wasn't quite as bad as we feared with the worst ever seen. But it was still bad. 
 <br>[02:40:02]
 
KINKADE:  While this is a good sign, Fretwell says works still needs to be done to save the emperor penguin, and we should do it before it's too late.
 
FRETWELL:  Could be worst -- well, that really depends on us. How much carbon and methane we put in the atmosphere. Can we change the trajectory of global warming that we're all in? If we can, we still have time to save the emperor penguin, but if we don't, then emperor penguins is going to be one of the first major animals that will be lost purely by warming planet.
 
KINKADE:  Fretwell and his fellow scientists predict that 99 percent of the emperor penguin population could be gone by the end of the century, a tragic loss for a majestic bird. 
 
Lynda Kinkade, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  After years of delay, an Australian billionaire is pushing forward with the creation of Titanic II. Billionaire Clive Palmer and Blue Star Line are accepting proposals and plans from ship builders who would attempt to recreate the original ship only bigger and better. 
 
Early designs reveal the Titanic II would hold more than 2,300 passengers with almost half of the cabins reserve for them. They are aiming to start building the ship next year.
 
I want to thank you for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. For our international viewers, "WORLD SPORT" is coming up next. And for those of you in the United States and Canada, I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment. Do stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:34]
 
CHURCH:  A warm welcome back to our viewers in North America. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke by phone for nearly an hour Sunday. A source tells CNN the two leaders primarily discussed a potential hostage deal, but also talked about Rafah and humanitarian assistance for Gaza. 
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  President Biden on Sunday spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a call that was primarily focused on a hostage deal. That according to a source familiar. 
 
Now, this call lasted just under an hour and was described by the source as, quote constructive. Of course, U.S. officials have been working around the clock to try to reach an agreement that would allow for a temporary ceasefire about six tweaks and also the release of hostages held by Hamas and for more humanitarian aid to get surged into Gaza. Senior U.S. officials have been traveling to the region over the last several months to try to advance these talks and Secretary of State Antony Blinken headed to the Middle East on Sunday, where he too will be involved in these conversations as well as the conversations about getting more aid into Gaza. 
 
Now, the president and the Israeli prime minister are also touched on other issues, including, for example, around the airstrikes against Israel and Israel's airstrikes against Iran, the first time they've discussed that since that occurred earlier this month, and about Rafah. That's an area where Israel has said that they would potentially launch an operation. It's also where there are over 1 million Palestinians displaced. And according to a White House readout, it said, quote, the leaders discussed Rafah and the president reiterated his clearer position. 
 
That position from the U.S. being that an operation at this point would be untenable. Of course, those conversations are ongoing. 
 
Now, what happens after this call and the results of it are still unclear. But what we will be monitoring in the weeks to come.
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, the White House.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  A new CNN poll finds high levels of disapproval for President Biden's handling of the conflict in Gaza. Seventy-one percent of respondents say they don't like the way he's handled the war between Israel and Hamas. That number is 81 percent among those aged 18 to 34. The survey also asked registered voters, their preferences and a head- to-head match up between Mr. Biden, and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump and found Trump leading by a margin of 6 percent.
 
Former President Donald Trump is laying the groundwork for a potential second term in office. Specifically, he's been talking about his plans to overhaul the federal government and eliminate what he calls the deep state and ensure most government employees are loyal to him.
 
CNN senior investigative correspondent Kyung Lah has more on the impact Trump's plans could have on the U.S. government and how it functions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  At every 2024 campaign rally for former President Donald Trump, he makes a vow.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We will demolish the deep state.
 
We will demolish the deep state.
 
We will demolish the deep state.
 
LAH:  The deep state is his named enemy, federal workers who Trump believes conspire against him.
 
TRUMP:  Here's my plan to dismantle the deep state and reclaim our democracy from Washington corruption.
 
LAH:  Trump's 10-point plan in his campaign website outlines sweeping changes he wants to make to government agencies.
 
TRUMP:  Faceless bureaucrats will never again be able to target and persecute conservatives, Christians or the left's political enemies.
 
LAH:  The end result would erase federal worker protections that have been in place for more than 140 years, eliminate entire departments and consolidate power around Trump. 
 
To understand the impact of what could happen in Trump's second term, you only have to look at his first.
 
TRUMP:  I will immediately reissue my 2020 executive order restoring the president's authority to remove rogue bureaucrats.
 
LAH:  That executive order he signed just before losing the 2020 election turns government jobs into political appointments, giving the Trump administration the power to fire employees at will and replace them with loyalists, making them according to this federal report subject to removal for partisan political reasons.
 
JACQUELINE SIMON, POLICY DIRECTOR, AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES:  Do you want people doing scientific research at the nuclear regulatory commission who don't have the qualifications to perform that kind of work? Their only qualification is an allegiance to the Trump agenda.
 <br>[02:50:07]
 
LAH:  Jacqueline Simon represents a large government employee union. She says the expertise of government workers can't be replaced on a political whim.
 
SIMON:  Once that kind of stuff is politicized, let's say you deny a disability claim based on somebody's politics.
 
LAH:  How do you feel as you think about what the federal workforce could look like?
 
SIMON:  It's very disheartening and it's scary. I think that there will be a massive exodus of competence.
 
ROBERT SHEA, SENIOR OMB OFFICIAL FOR PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH:  I do think that this is in part an effort to weaponize the bureaucracy. LAH:  Lifelong Republican Robert Shea was a political appointee under President George W. Bush. He believes politics should be kept out of the federal workforce no matter who is in the White House.
 
SHEA:  I would expect to see wide swaths of civil servants removed from their positions and replaced with people more loyal to President Trump.
 
LAH:  Do you read this as a loyalty test?
 
SHEA:  I do.
 
LAH:  These documents obtained by the National Treasury Employees Union show the Trump administration plan to cut deep. One agency proposing almost 70 percent of its positions should become political appointments by claiming they deal with policy.
 
IT specialists, data management, budget information support manager.
 
We read the jobs list to former Obama-era OMB official Kenneth Baer.
 
So why would you make all these positions political appointees?
 
KENNETH BAER, SENIOR OMB OFFICIAL FOR PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA:  Because that's what they want to destroy the independent objective civil service, that's why. I think it would really fundamentally weaken the American government but also American democracy if we got rid of that career staff.
 
TRUMP:  The deep state must and will be brought to heel.
 
LAH:  But that's only part of what Trump appears to have in store.
 
TRUMP:  Move parts of the sprawling federal bureaucracy to new locations outside the Washington swamp to places filled with patriots who love America.
 
LAH:  He's also promising to relocate federal agencies out of D.C., something he did in his first term.
 
CATHERINE GREENE, FORMER SENIOR ECONOMIST, USDA:  I was devastated.
 
LAH:  The Trump administration targeted two agencies at the USDA, moving hundreds of jobs including Catherine Greene's out of Washington to Kansas City. The official reason was to create significant savings for taxpayers, improve USDA's ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel and attract a diverse staff. But the exact opposite happened.
 
In fact, one government study showed that the administration excluded critical costs in its estimate for moving agencies.
 
And after two years, the workforce was made up mostly of new employees with less experience and the number of black employees declined to about a third of what it once was.
 
GREENE:  The goal was to uproot the agency in such a way that most people would have to move on and most people did.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
LAH (on camera):  The Biden administration is trying to slow down any action Trump could take against federal employees if he wins the 2024 election by finalizing a new rule that says civil service protections cant be taken away from employees unless they voluntarily give them away. 
 
Experts tell us, while that might put a pause on Trump's plans essentially putting in a speed bump, ultimately, Trump could do what he is planning. The only permanent fix will be legislation passed by Congress.
 
Kyung Lah, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
CHURCH:  Only three weeks left in the English Premier League season and there are only two teams who can win the title, Manchester City and Arsenal. 
 
"WORLD SPORT" Don Riddell has more on the fight to the finish.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  The Premier League Title race would now seem to be a head-to-head between Manchester City and Arsenal. Liverpool have kind of fallen away in recent weeks. So it's now down to the Gunners to challenge Man City and try to prevent them from becoming the first team to win four consecutive crowns. 
 
But they had a tricky assignment on Sunday away there are better North London rivals, Tottenham, and all those birth play well. Arsenal got the goals. That's Bukayo Saka making it two-nil midway through the first half. And Arsenal were cruising when Kai Havertz made it three- nil into 38th minute. 
 
This was a frustrating de for Spurs. They add more possession, they had chances, but nothing dropped into the 64th minute when Cristian Romero punished Arsenal's goalie for a dreadful mistake. And then three minutes from time, Spurs really rattled their opponents for the penalty from the Son Heung-Min.
 
Tottenham, though, unable to find another. Arsenal held on for three crucial points. The Gunners must win every game and hope the Manchester City somehow slip up. Otherwise, it is City's title to lose. It's in their hands right now, they picked up another three points on Sunday with a two-nil when at Nottingham Forest.
 
City's defender Josko Gvardiol is having a wonderful month. That was his third goal and just five games while Erling Haaland returned from injury coming off the bench to make points safe. 
 <br>[02:55:03]
 
That's his 21st Premier League goal of the season. Two-nil, the final score. So here's the table, Arsenal still top. The Gunners are a point ahead of Man City, but City have a game in hand. Arsenal have just three matches left to play. City have four.
 
ERLING HAALAND, MANCHESTER CITY STRIKER:  I think the most important thing is to not think especially in these moments about taking day by day honestly, if you think you're going to be crazy in your head, so relax. Now, enjoy, for the next one.
 
RIDDELL:  The story will continue on Saturday with both Arsenal and Man City playing their next Premier League games at home.
 
Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And finally, a sumo wrestling match unlike any you've seen before. The competitors are not the massive hulking dudes in loin cloths trying to force each other but out of the ring. This time, the matches between babies and whoever cries first is the one who wins. Around 100 babies joined the annual crying sumo event in Tokyo this year. For some, it took no time at all to become champions, although some babies couldn't help but smile.
 
Thanks so much for your company this hour. I'm Rosemary Church. I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment. Do stick around.