Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: U.S. Defense Secretary Orders Guided-Missile Submarine to Region; Russia Expands Evacuations Amid Ukrainian Offensive; Harris Supercharges Democrats ahead of Party Convention; Elon Musk to Interview Donald Trump on X; What's it all about, Bansky? London Wants to Know. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired August 12, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Welcome to "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson, 02:00 p.m. here in London, your headlines this 
 
 hour. The latest Gaza ceasefire talks are set to start this week amid the prospect of a wider Middle East conflict and outrage over a strike on a 
 
 Gaza school.
 
An order from Vladimir Putin to his troops, to quote, knock out Ukrainian forces from Russian territory is Kyiv's unprecedented incursion into Russia 
 
 goes into its seventh day. And new polling shows Kamala Harris is super charging Democrats ahead of the party's convention next week. 
 
And the stock market in New York will open about 30 minutes from now, you will get -- we will get you to those markets on the opening ahead of that 
 
 the futures indicating a slightly better start to the trading week. We start this hour with what could be a crucial week in determining the future 
 
 of the Israel Hamas war in Gaza and the prospect of a wider war in the Middle East.
 
Ceasefire negotiations mediated by Egypt and Qatar are scheduled to resume on Thursday. Ahead of that, an Israeli source saying that the Hamas Leader 
 
 Yahya Sinwar wants a deal. Hamas says any truce reached should be based on the framework of the plan proposed by U.S. President Joe Biden in July. 
 
Now it's unknown if Israel's Prime Minister, facing intense opposition to a cease fire from his hard right ministers will actually go along with that, 
 
 or even if these talks will happen. Well, this uncertainty follows another deadly weekend in Gaza with an attack on a school housing, displaced 
 
 Palestinians, killing nearly 100 people. 
 
The death toll in Gaza since October 7th is now approaching 40,000 according to Gaza's Health Ministry. And amid growing expectations that 
 
 Iran will stage a large-scale attack on Israel, the U.S. Defense Secretary has ordered a nuclear-powered submarine into Middle East waters. There is a 
 
 lot to unpack here. 
 
We've got Nic Robertson in Tel Aviv for you today. Ben Wedeman is in Beirut. Natasha Bertrand is at the Pentagon in Washington. And let's start 
 
 with you. We've seen Lloyd Austin, the Defense Secretary posting today on X reiterating to Yoav Gallant the Defense Secretary in Israel that the U.S. 
 
 is committed to Israel's defense. 
 
This, as concerns continue amidst much sort of speculation about whether Iran and Hezbollah may attack Israel, and if so, when? What are the 
 
 circumstances of a U.S. sub moving into the region? How unusual is it to reveal a location like this? This is what we're getting from the U.S. 
 
 Secretary of Defense, of course, at this point.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's the key, Becky, is that it is extremely rare for the U.S. to reveal the 
 
 location or the deployment of a nuclear-powered guided missile submarine. Usually, these operate in complete secrecy.
 
And so, the fact that they are telegraphing to the world, and specifically, of course, to Iran and its proxies, that this submarine is moving into the 
 
 area. Is a really clear sign here that the U.S. and Israel are very concerned that Iran and or Hezbollah and the proxy militias, of course, in 
 
 Iraq and Syria may be poised to carry out some kind of coordinated or large-scale attack on Israel and, of course, on the many U.S. forces that 
 
 remain in the region. 
 
And so, what we're seeing now, of course, is the U.S. continuing to place all of these very strategic assets in the region to prepare for the 
 
 possibility that this happens. And all of this was announced last night following Secretary Austin's call with Israeli Defense Minister Yoav 
 
 Gallant. 
 
He is also, according to that read out there, ordered the speeding up the acceleration of the transit of that carrier strike group, the USS Lincoln 
 
 to the region which is going to be replacing the Roosevelt, which is an aircraft carrier that has currently been operating, kind of in the Gulf of 
 
 Oman area. 
 
Also indicating, of course, that this needs to get there quickly, because they are anticipating something possibly happening within the next few days 
 
 here. And this is not only a message of deterrence, of course, saying, look, we have all of this hardware, all of these troops in this region, in 
 
 case you do try something. 
 
But it's also, of course, a message of, hey, we're here. We're ready to defend Israel if need be. And look what happened last time when Iran 
 
 attacked Israel, most of those 300 plus ballistic missiles and drones were ultimately shot down by the U.S. and its allies. 
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
And so, preparing for the worst here, but of course, still hoping that diplomacy is going to win the day. 
 
ANDERSON: OK. The region extremely tense at this point. Thank you. Let me bring in Nic. The U.S., Egypt and Qatar appealing for talks on a ceasefire 
 
 and hostage deal to begin again on August the 15th, that is this Thursday. The hopes were that that would, at least in principle, postpone any 
 
 threatened action by Iran on one hand, and Hezbollah from Lebanon on the other.
 
And yet it does seem that there are real concerns that there is an attack could be imminent at any time. So firstly, what do we know about these 
 
 ceasefire hostage talks Thursday? Who is attending, who is not? And secondly, what chance in region -- in Israel talking to sources there, what 
 
 chance that there will be some sort of retaliatory attack by Iran and Hezbollah before those talks on Thursday, if indeed they happen?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yeah, they're very crucial talks, as you say, Becky. And it is important that the mood music 
 
 in advance of those talks is positive. A to make the talks happen. B, to deter Iran. 
 
Because, as you rightly say, it was these talks being brought into being that was going to offer Iran a potential off ramp from striking back at 
 
 Israel for the killing of Hamas Leader Ismail Haniyeh in Iran just about a week and a half ago. So where do things stand? 
 
Well, we know that Hamas, late yesterday, had signalled that they wanted a deal based on President Biden's framework that he had laid out that had 
 
 fallen, essentially fallen by the wayside previously, because of what Hamas and others had described as additional measures put in place, additional 
 
 requests at those negotiations by the Israeli side, by Prime Minister Netanyahu. 
 
So the question talking to sources at the moment is, what sort of pressure is the United States putting on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to have 
 
 to take a more moderate position on the talks? And therefore, what's the assessment that he will?
 
And I think in the last few minutes, we've really got an understanding of where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's mind is on this, and that's 
 
 because of an internal dispute in Israel between the Defense Minister Yoav Gallant, and the prime minister's office.
 
Now Yoav Gallant was quoted in some Israeli media again, repeating a line he is said before that there is no absolute victory over Hamas. People who 
 
 believe that are mistaken, and that's been the prime minister's message about Gaza. 
 
Now the prime minister's office responded to that just a few minutes ago, saying that Yoav Gallant should focus on criticizing Hamas and Yahya Sinwar 
 
 its leader for saying that they won't send representatives to those talks on Thursday, that that it is Hamas that's the obstacle here. 
 
So, the indications are that Prime Minister Netanyahu is still, for internal domestic reasons, sticking to that very strong position. We don't 
 
 know precisely what he'll bring to the table. But it's going to grow those concerns that he is going to come with what are seen by many as additional 
 
 demands that will mean the talks won't go ahead.
 
And any narrative like that will dissuade Iran from holding back, and might persuade it that it needs to take a more maximalist, less a minimalist type 
 
 of response, a minimalist response that doesn't incur a response by Israel. So, it's very tenuous trying to read the two leads at the moment Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Tough times. Ben, let me bring you in. Hezbollah fired a barrage of rockets towards Northern Israel overnight. From your perspective there, 
 
 what's the view on the possibility at this point of some sort of serious escalation anytime soon?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, there is profound fear about a possible escalation, not just an escalation between 
 
 Hezbollah and Israel, but a regional escalation. Now my diplomatic sources are telling me the problem is that Hezbollah has sort of its rhetoric -- 
 
 it's talked itself into a corner. 
 
Now we heard twice in the last 10 days, Secretary General of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah, saying that Hezbollah is going to respond. There was no 
 
 conditional clause about it. It will respond to the killing 13 days ago of Fuad Shukr, that senior Hezbollah commander. But the problem is, if the 
 
 response is too strong, and Israel strikes back even stronger then, there is the very real possibility that we could be on a slippery slope to a 
 
 regional war.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Diplomatic sources say Hezbollah does not want that. Iran does want -- not want that. Keep in mind, of course, that Iran it's a little harder for Iran 
 
 to hit Israel than Hezbollah, which is just right across the border here. If you fire a drone from Iran, it takes hours to get to Israel and 
 
 inevitably, will be shot down. 
 
But both Lebanon and Iran have a fundamental problem. Their economies are in shambles. They really can't afford to engage in a full-scale war with 
 
 Israel. Israel, even though Hezbollah, we speak a lot about its significant military capabilities, they're nothing compared to what Israel can unleash. 
 
And therefore, Hezbollah has to respond according to sort of the logic of the Axis of Resistance that its credibility is on the line. But at the same 
 
 time, its domestic standing here in Lebanon could be seriously damaged. Keep in mind, it's also a political party has members in Parliament, 
 
 representatives in the government. 
 
Its political standing could be demolished if there is a full-scale war with Israel. So, there's many reasons why one might think there's a could 
 
 be a full-scale regional war, but here in Lebanon, there aren't many good reasons, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Ben, it's good to have you and to you, Nic and Natasha, thank you. And you can follow developments in the region in our "Meanwhile in the 
 
 Middle East" Newsletter, there is extensive coverage of the Israel Hamas war amid fears of a wider conflict and other news. You can access the 
 
 newsletter and sign up by scanning that QR code on the bottom of your screen. 
 
Well, Russia is evacuating thousands of civilians from more areas along the Ukrainian border. It comes a week into what's been Kyiv's surprise cross 
 
 border attack into Russian territory. Russian President Vladimir Putin says the Ukrainian offensive is designed to improve Ukraine's negotiating 
 
 position, and he's telling his military, to quote, squeeze out the invaders. 
 
Meantime, Russia and Ukraine blaming each other for starting a fire at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant in southern Ukraine. Ukraine's President 
 
 Volodymyr Zelenskyy shared this video showing smoke coming out of one of the towers at the plant on Sunday. He blamed Russia for using the nuclear 
 
 plant black-mail Ukraine, Europe and the world. 
 
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen is extensively covered the war for CNN joining us today from Berlin. Let's start with this Ukrainian incursion onto Russian 
 
 soil a week into this. How badly was the Kremlin caught off guard. What's the goal here? What's it's goal and strategy and what's being gained?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, for the Ukrainians, Becky, I think they gain several things from this. On the one 
 
 hand, I think that they believe that they can stretch some of those Russian forces that are putting the Ukrainians under pressure in the east of 
 
 Ukraine, on the eastern front there in towns called Toretsk for instance, but also in the Pokrovsk area, putting the Ukrainians under pressure there. 
 
They're hoping that the Russians are going to have to divert some of those forces to try and come to terms with that Ukrainian incursion. And we see a 
 
 really good map on our screens now to see just some of those areas where the Ukrainians have gone into on Russian territory, which really was an 
 
 unprecedented thing. 
 
The Ukrainians, of course, also boosting their own morale by being able to say that they have territorial gains. And you know, you just asked about 
 
 how off guard the Kremlin appears to have been caught by all this. One appears as though it was pretty off guard. In fact, Vladimir Putin has just 
 
 had a meeting with some of his security officials. 
 
And the numbers that we're getting out of that are that apparently 28 settlements in the Kursk region are under control of the Ukrainians. And 
 
 the other number is really staggering, and that is about 120,000 people have been evacuated Russians in the Kursk region alone. 
 
Now we know that people are also being evacuated in a region south of that, the Belgorod region. But both of these areas, Becky, of course, right on 
 
 the border with the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians making the incursion there. But they are also big military areas for Russia as well.
 
Kursk is certainly one of the main points, logistical points for the Russians for their invasion of Ukraine and Belgorod, for a very long time, 
 
 has essentially been a military and -- city. In fact, when the war kicked off, I was in Belgorod, and there's a lot of Russian military, that is 
 
 stationed there. 
 
So, it certainly appears as though the Russians have been caught off guard. One of the other things that Vladimir Putin said at that meeting is he also 
 
 said that the goal is to squeeze the Ukrainians out of Russian territory. Well, it seems as though, right now, the Russians still pretty far away 
 
 from doing that. 
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Again, it's unclear whether or not the Ukrainians are going to be able to hold any of that territory. This seems to be an expeditionary force, but 
 
 also one that is regular Ukrainian units, and ones that are well versed in taking territory very quickly Becky.
 
ANDERSON: This is fascinating. What more do we know about what happened at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant over the weekend?
 
PLEITGEN: Yeah, they're very difficult, very difficult to tell who exactly is behind that. We also saw that video of that smoke coming off or out of 
 
 one of the cooling towers. Of course, many of us have seen that vantage point from the other side of the Dnipro River, those two cooling towers of 
 
 what is one of the largest power -- nuclear power plants in all of Europe.
 
The Ukrainians are saying that the Russians started the fire. They say that it might have been tires that were burned by the Russians around that 
 
 cooling tower. The Ukrainians obviously saying this is a major incident, and this is the Russians trying to destabilize Europe. They say, even more 
 
 than they already have been. 
 
The Russians, for their part, are blaming the Ukrainians. They say that this was a Ukrainian drone attack that took place in the International 
 
 Atomic Energy Agency, of course, Becky. They have some observers in that nuclear power plant. 
 
They're not saying who might be behind all of this, but they have put out a very short statement where they said that the local staff at the nuclear 
 
 power plant told the observers that apparently there was some sort of explosion after what they say was a drone attack as well. 
 
But right now, the finger pointing goes back and forth. One of the things that we have been able to ascertain, though, and this is probably the most 
 
 important thing, is that apparently radiation levels around that area have not spiked, have not gone up. 
 
Nevertheless, of course, another major security incident at that very large nuclear power plant, which, of course, for a very long time already has 
 
 been essentially right on the front lines between the Russians and the Ukrainians Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Fred Pleitgen is on the story for you today, Fred, thank you. Well, Donald Trump's running mate goes one-on-one with CNN. What he had to 
 
 say about Tim Walz, including those comments calling him weird. We are live from Washington with that.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Let's get you caught up with the presidential elections in the United States showing Democrats Kamala Harris and Tim Walz are the trail 
 
 today, while Donald Trump's running mate J.D. Vance is raising money in Texas right now. He's at the first of two fundraisers planned for this 
 
 Monday.
 
Handshakes kisses and which vice-presidential candidate is really the weird one? Well, J.D. Vance got into some of that with CNN's Dana Bash in an 
 
 interview on State of the Union on CNN on Sunday. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA BASH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I want to move on to something that Governor Walz has called you and Donald Trump and that is weird.
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), 2024 VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Sure.
 
BASH: And it is taken off.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
VANCE: Well, certainly they've levied that charge against me more than anybody else, but I think that it drives home how they're trying to 
 
 distract from their own policy failures. I mean, look, this is fundamentally school yard bully stuff. They can accuse me of whatever they 
 
 want to accuse me of.
 
As Harris Truman once said, if you can't take the heat, stay out of the kitchen. And I'm doing this because I think that me being vice president 
 
 will help improve people's lives. So, I accept their attacks, but I think that it is a little bit of projection. Dana, if you think about, you know, 
 
 just take a couple of days ago, Tim Walz gives this big speech.
 
He's been announced as the VP nominee. And I remember when I had just been announced as the VP nominee, I gave my big speech and I saw my wife, and I 
 
 gave her a big hug and a kiss, because I love my wife, and I think that's what a normal person does. Tim Walz gave his wife a nice, firm Midwestern 
 
 handshake, and then tried to sort of awkwardly correct for it.
 
So, I think that what it is two people, Kamala Harris and Tim Walz, who aren't comfortable in their own skin, because they are uncomfortable with 
 
 their policy positions for the American people, and so they're name calling instead of actually telling the American people how they're going to make 
 
 their lives better. I think that's weird, Dana, but look, they can call me whatever they want to.
 
BASH: You're saying Tim Walz doesn't have affection for his wife. I don't even understand that.
 
VANCE: I said that he acted weird, which he did on a national stage, in front of his wife and in front of millions of Americans who presumably were 
 
 watching at home, and I think that this projection, Dana.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, CNN's Alayna Treene across all of these developments. He joins us from Washington. I mean, at some point, I hope, will the benefit 
 
 of everybody get beyond, you know what we mean by weird and who's throwing you know what weird term at whom? At this point, it does seem like J.D. 
 
 Vance is taking on a more prominent role, though. What's the thinking behind that?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Well, I've reported extensively on this Becky. I've talked to a lot of people, both in Vance's team, but also on Donald 
 
 Trump's team, and they really are trying. I mean, you've seen this over the past week. They are trying to roll him out. He has been the messenger.
 
Last week, it was J.D. Vance who was hitting the campaign trail hard, going to all of the different states and cities that the Harris campaign and, you 
 
 know, subsequently the Harris, Walz campaign were hitting, he went to the Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, kind of mirroring the different stops 
 
 that they were doing.
 
That wasn't Donald Trump doing that. That was J.D. Vance. And when I talk to both of their teams, they say Vance is the person that they want to be 
 
 delivering the more diligent and scripted in some ways, response for the ticket, which is that focus on the policy.
 
This is something that they have been wanting Donald Trump to do himself for several months, but he's kind of been unable to, as we know when you 
 
 watch Donald Trump at his different rallies, he can be scatter shot. He riffs, he goes off script. He and we've seen this explicitly over the last 
 
 week, and really this weekend, goes into more personal attacks against his opponents.
 
We are seeing Vance do that as well. But overall, his main message, and what he has been tasked to do, is to focus on the policy, to go after 
 
 Harris on crime, immigration, inflation, the three policy areas that they really believe Republicans win on, that people will come out to vote for 
 
 Donald Trump, if they can talk about the areas and the policy that they believe is stronger and where they pull higher.
 
And it's very different from what we've actually seen Donald Trump. Do I do. Just want to give you a little sense of what we saw from the former 
 
 president this weekend. He really bought into these right wing and wildly untrue conspiracy theories about there being a fake crowd at Harris's 
 
 events, particularly the one over the weekend, which is just completely false.
 
We have several people from, you know, thousands -- really, hundreds of people have witnessed this, including CNN that she has thousands of people 
 
 showing up to her events, and it's something that's really gotten under Donald Trump's skin, because he is obsessed with crowd size.
 
And it's really, again, this isn't happening in a vacuum for Donald Trump. It's him buying into this conspiracy online. And honestly, it's not 
 
 something I've seen him really do as deeply since the aftermath of the 2020 election and the conspiracy around January 6, but to go back to Vance and 
 
 just the difference, they are trying to put him out in front of the media.
 
His team has told me that he's going to be doing more interviews. He's going to be holding press conferences. He's doing these long form podcast 
 
 interviews geared toward younger audiences. They are really trying to deploy him to make the case for the Trump campaign on the policy and really 
 
 focus in on messaging that they know Donald Trump sometimes struggle with delivering, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Well, whether or not he's landing the punches will remains to be seen in the polling, at least in principle, will help us out with that. We 
 
 got the convention, of course, coming next week. We are within 90 days, of course, of this election, it's always good to have you. Thank you very much 
 
 indeed.
 
Well, it's just a week to go until that convention for the Democrats and their nominee, Kamala Harris does appear to be super charging the party at 
 
 least a new poll by the "New York Times" and Siena College shows Harris leading Donald Trump by four points in the crucial States of Pennsylvania, 
 
 Wisconsin and Michigan.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
It also shows a closer presidential race overall than when Biden topped the ticket and with no clear leader. Now, CNN's Harry Enten here to break down 
 
 the numbers for us. Good to have you, mate. Kamala Harris on the time cover this week. Let's have a look at that. 
 
She's taken this election by the scruff of the neck, as it were, who could have predicted that a month ago? So just walk us through what we've got 
 
 here. As far as polling is concerned, what's it indicating?
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Yeah, I just want to also note that there's nothing wrong with being weird. I don't know why it's pejorative. 
 
 I'm pretty weird. I think it's pretty decent. Anyway, we'll talk about this polling. You mentioned those New York Times/Siena College polls.
 
And I just want to sort of note the trend line here, because I think this is what's so important. What's going on, right? This is the Democrat versus 
 
 Donald Trump Margin. You go back to May; you look at Biden versus Trump. You look at Pennsylvania. You saw Trump up by three.
 
Wisconsin, Trump up by one. Michigan, Biden up by one. But in all three of these great lake battle ground states, what we saw was Joe Biden 
 
 underperforming how well he did four years ago. Now you jump ahead here to August, and what do you see? You mentioned it. Look at this.
 
In all three of these states, we have Harris advantages of four points, a seven point move in Pennsylvania, her direction, a five point move in 
 
 Wisconsin, her direction, a three point move in Michigan in her direction, so the momentum is on her side. But you know, we talk about these great 
 
 lake battle ground states, these Midwest battle ground states.
 
Why are we so focusing in on these. Here is the reason why. It's all about the race to 270 electoral votes. And so, what I've done in this map here is 
 
 pretty simple. I've given Harris Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and then I've subtracted from her three states that Joe Biden won four years 
 
 ago in which Joe Biden wasn't doing particularly well in the polling, Nevada, Arizona and Georgia.
 
And what happens when we give Harris these three great lake battle ground states, while subtracting these three Sun Belt battleground states. Well, 
 
 it's all about a race to 270 electoral votes. And get this, if Harris wins in those great lake battle ground states, she gets to exactly 270 electoral 
 
 votes, she would win just by the virtue of winning in these three states.
 
But here's the question, Becky, with still many of days to go in this election, how far off were the polls in these three states compared to the 
 
 final margin, 2016, 2020, 9 points in 2016, 5 points in 2020, we still have a boatload of time to go. We still have the Democratic Convention, and 
 
 we'll just have to wait and see what happens.
 
ANDERSON: Let me ask you, then, who is Kamala Harris appealing to, that Biden didn't.
 
ENTEN: Two groups. Number one, she's getting a larger share of the Democratic vote those 2020 Biden voters, she's getting 93 percent of them. 
 
 Joe Biden was getting only 90 percent of them in the last New York Times/Siena College Poll, and the other group, people who didn't vote in 
 
 2020 she's getting 43 percent of those voters.
 
Joe Biden was getting just 28 percent of those voters. Donald Trump has made his campaign about appealing to untraditional voters, and Kamala 
 
 Harris is going and saying, wait a minute, you're not the only one who can compete among untraditional voters. I can as well.
 
She's getting voters off the sideline. She's getting people of color off the sideline. She's getting younger voters off the sideline, and those are 
 
 the folks who are super charging her campaign at this particular point and turning what was a deficit in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, a close race to 
 
 Michigan now to clear advantages, although, again, with no clear leader in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan.
 
ANDERSON: You're not weird. You're kooky. But you're not weird.
 
ENTEN: I'm a little kooky, but I also think I'd like to think I'm a little smart too.
 
ANDERSON: You absolutely! Absolutely not a shadow of -- about that. It's always good to have you, mate. Thank you.
 
ENTEN: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Next up, X marks the spot. The social media platform is where you will find Donald Trump later today. He is in interview one on one fireside, 
 
 whatever you want to call it, with Elon Musk.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson, you're watching "Connect the World". A new week is a new beginning on Wall Street. Of course, this is 
 
 how the markets are doing a minute and a half into the trading week that, of course, is a much quieter picture than that, which we started with.
 
Last Monday, a tumultuous week for investors. Last week with stocks swinging between their highs and lows, last week's trading driven by new 
 
 data on the U.S. labor market and concerns about the health of America's economy. In other business news, Donald Trump social media company has 
 
 reported a loss of more than $16 million for the past financial quarter.
 
Trump Media and Technology Group brought in less than a million dollars in revenue, a 30 percent drop from the same period last year. And it comes as 
 
 the group rolls out a new video streaming platform known as Truth, plus it's claiming the platform will be quote, un cancellable, if that is a 
 
 word.
 
Donald Trump is preparing to give an interview on another social media platform later today. X formerly known as Twitter, of course, Trump will be 
 
 in conversation with the owner of X, Elon Musk, who is promising entertainment guaranteed. X has recently come under fire for failing to 
 
 rein in misinformation and hate speech, particularly around the riots here in Britain.
 
Well, for more, let's bring Clare Duffy from New York. So firstly, what can we expect from this interview, Clare?
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: Yeah, Becky, Elon Musk has said this is going to be an unscripted conversation with no limits on the subject 
 
 matter, so we could see any number of things, but this is almost certainly going to be a friendly conversation. Elon Musk has endorsed Donald Trump.
 
He's encouraged his followers on X to support the former president's bid for the White House this year. I think there's a couple of things we could 
 
 potentially hear them talk about. One of them is immigration, which is obviously a frequent talking point for Trump, and something that Musk has 
 
 been increasingly vocal about.
 
In some cases, Elon Musk has actually shared racist conspiracy theories about immigration in the U.S. The other is electric vehicles and climate 
 
 policy, obviously something that's really important to Musk as CEO of Tesla, and it's something that actually Donald Trump and Elon Musk kind of 
 
 clash on during Trump's last administration.
 
Elon Musk left a White House advisory group after Trump pulled out of the Paris Climate Accord. So, we could get a sense of whether they're a bit 
 
 more in alignment on that issue now, but I think stepping back a little bit, this is a really notable conversation, because never have we seen the 
 
 CEO of a social media platform take such a direct role in trying to sway the outcome of an election.
 
Certainly, we've seen social media platforms play a role in elections. I mean, you think about 2016 you think about what happened on January 6, 2021 
 
 but this is a really unique position for Elon Musk to be taking to try to leverage the power of his platform to take a really direct role in swaying 
 
 the outcome of this election, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: -- let's just remind ourselves, he's got 193.8 million viewers. I'm just looking at it now, just in advertising, the fact that he's live in 
 
 conversation with Donald Trump tomorrow -- today.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
This was yesterday he was advertising the fact about 12 hours ago that has had 29 million views in and of itself. So, let's not underestimate the 
 
 power of that platform when it comes to an interview with Donald Trump and Elon Musk. It's good to get some insight into what you believe will be 
 
 discussed.
 
And I think you spot on there will be really interesting see what comes out of it. Thank you. Well, coming up next, the countdown to the Olympics in 
 
 Los Angeles is on after the Paris Olympics officially ended last night in what was a dazzling closing ceremony. Details on that coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, it is anyone's guess how many new pieces by the elusive artist Banksy will pop up around London. People are reacting to the latest 
 
 in a series of animal themed works that the artist has placed throughout the city and speculating about what they mean.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Banksy strikes again. An ordinary glass police box on a street in London has been re imagined as a tank full of 
 
 toothy fish that look like piranhas. The fish follow a stream of animal themed murals confirmed to be the handiwork of the infamous street artist 
 
 that have popped up in London in the past week, drawing crowds, but in a good way.
 
The fish are painted in translucent aquatic colors, a departure from the other works in the series that were done in black silhouettes, including a 
 
 black cat stretching on a billboard which has since been removed, two pelicans perched over a fish and chip shop, a Howling Wolf on a satellite 
 
 dish which was quickly stolen, three monkeys swinging on a railway bridge, two elephants giving each other trunks up, and a goat on a precarious 
 
 perch.
 
It's been a guessing game for Londoners to try and figure out what might appear next and what message Banksy might be sending.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Possibly linked to all the riots in the U.K. recently.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Obviously, the Olympics going on at the moment, lots of people talking about goats, greatest of all time. Maybe it's symbolic of 
 
 that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Even an expert on world affairs who regularly appears on CNN, is weighing in.
 
FAWAZ GERGES, PROFESSOR OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AT LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS: What Banksy is trying to do is to really get us to think and 
 
 reflect about the ecological crisis that really threatens humanity.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Or maybe, like all art, the meaning is in the eye of the beholder.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: To be honest, I think he just painted animals. It doesn't have to be a meaningful, you know? It doesn't have to be 
 
 meaningful. It's just animals.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): There is speculation the murals are just a way to cheer people up, and Sunday's edition was just that, with people 
 
 taking photos in and around the artwork until contractors place plastic barriers around the box, while the City of London says it's looking for 
 
 options to preserve it a fleeting and fun distraction from an artist who's not really known for explaining himself.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who knows you have to be Banksy to know that, but it's very nice to have it in this particular week.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: -- following that report, after much speculation Banksy actually posted on Instagram recently to say, the new works of street are his doing? 
 
 Just in case we were confused. Well, McDonald's France has an Olympic beef with Team U.S.A. Steph Curry after France lost to the Americans in the 
 
 men's basketball final on Saturday
 
Curry was key to that wind sinking eight 3-pointers to help lead the U.S. to gold in a 98, 87 wins. McDonald's France shared this post online 
 
 featuring its classic curry dipping sauce and saying that, for obvious reasons, we are considering removing this source. Well, it is all in good 
 
 fun, of course.
 
No response yet on social media from the NBA superstar, whose nickname is Chef Curry. And of course, the Olympic flame was officially extinguished on 
 
 Sunday during an elaborate closing ceremony bringing the 2024 Paris games to a close. The countdown to Los Angeles, 2028 begins. Patrick Snell 
 
 joining me now, and so it goes on.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, Becky, what are we going to do for the next four years? It feels like I wanted these games to continue. Yes, 
 
 we have the Winter Games, of course, in 2026 but it was a spectacular and very powerful closing ceremony. No question about that. Images for me, the 
 
 key ones for me. I was thinking of Leon Marchand France's Super Star Swimmer.
 
No one more, one more gold medal at these games than him. He won four. He played a starring role, very, featuring very prominently in the closing 
 
 summary, as did that guy right there, Tom Cruise, the iconic actor who basically, pretty much abseil down from the top of the Stade de France and 
 
 then mingled and posed with the fans there for the selfies, and grabbed the Olympic flame and got on a motorbike and then just left the arena.
 
It was all very impressive. And of course, it paves the way very nicely indeed for the LA games four years from now, where we're told we're going 
 
 to be getting a car free. That's the goal, to get a car free Olympic Games in Los Angeles, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Wow.
 
SNELL: And if you've ever been to that city, you will know that is going to be an almighty challenge given the sheer volume of traffic there in the 
 
 Southern California city. Back to you.
 
ANDERSON: Wow, what a promise.
 
SNELL: Yeah.
 
ANDERSON: We'll hold them to that. Thank you, Patrick, it's good to have you, mate, and that's it from us for the time being. "World Sport" is up 
 
 next. We are though back top of the hour 15 minutes time with the second hour of "Connect the World". Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END