Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Rep. James Clyburn (D-SC) Interviewed on Receiving Presidential Medal of Freedom Along with Civil Rights Activist Medgar Evers; Hush Money Criminal Trial of Donald Trump Continues; Severe Weather Impacts Multiple Counties in Texas; Biden Administration Sends Letter to Colleges on Protests; Today: American Expected in Court in Turks & Caicos. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired May 03, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
REP. JAMES CLYBURN, (D-SC) BIDEN/HARRIS 2024 NATIONAL CO-CHAIR:  In these negotiations. The Secretary of State has done a tremendous job. Joe Biden is expressing exactly what the American believe, and that is we must not stymy protests. This great country was born out of a protest. This great movement toward a more perfect union, overtime, many times over born out of protest. So we must protect that. 
 
But we cannot condone lawlessness. And when you use violence in order to manifest your protest, you have stepped over the line. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  And we heard those very words coming out of Joe Biden's mouth yesterday. 
 
Representative Clyburn, I do want to ask you lastly about something that should not be so controversial. You are receiving the Presidential Medal of Freedom. And this year you're sharing the honor with several others, 18 others, including civil rights hey Medgar Evers, who fought desegregation in Mississippi before he was shot in the back by a white supremacist in 1963. What does this mean to you to receive this honor?
 
CLYBURN:  This is a great, great honor that I am very, very proud of. And as I said to President Biden when he called me to tell me he was conferring this honor upon me, I just hope to live long enough to prove myself deserving of it. I thank him so much for the recognition. I congratulate the other 18 people who will get this. Medgar Every is still living. I hope the widow of Medgar Every, I hope that she gets to enjoy this as well. I've gotten to know her very well over the years. I did not know Medgar personally, but at the time he was killed, I was already active as president of my youth chapter of the NAACP at the time he was murdered. And so this is a great honor to be in the same company there with him, as well as the others who will be honored today. 
 
SIDNER:  You have been involved in so many moments of history. Representative Clyburn, thank you so much for taking the time this morning with us. Appreciate you. 
 
CLYBURN:  Thank you very much for having me. 
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Donald Trump back in court. Phone calls secretly recorded by Michael Cohen sure to take center stage. And moments ago, the NYPD clearing out a protest encampment at NYU, and also word of new arrests at another school, the New School in New York City. The crackdowns on college campuses continue.
 
An incredible video showing a huge tornado touching down in Texas. The severe weather threat, though, is still not over -- 7 million people are under watches and warnings in the south today. 
 
I'm Kate Bolduan with Sara Sidner and Joe Biden. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. 
 
SIDNER:  All right, any moment now, Donald Trump will be leaving Trump Tower as he has done every day of court. This third week of his criminal hush money trial is wrapping up today. This morning, a forensic analyst returns to the stand to wait in all the authenticity of several phone conversations that former Trump fixer and lawyer Michael Cohen secretly recorded. In one of them, Trump is heard telling Cohen two pay with cash for a hush money deal with former "Playboy" model Karen McDougal. There's also a recording of Cohen's phone call with Stormy Daniels. Her former attorney, Keith Davidson, who has been on the stand for a couple of days now, the cross- examination of Davidson turned very tense as the defense tried to paint him as an extortionist profiting off celebrity deals.
 
CNN's Brynn Gingras is outside court for us. Brynn, each side seems to be using these recordings, trying to use them, of course, to their own advantage. How important have they been for the prosecution in particular?
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, listen, Sara, the prosecution has to show two jurors that Trump knew that these payments were being made as hush money payments, right? Those are the charges against him are the falsifying the business records before this election and that he knowingly did this. So that's why these records according is are being brought in right now, to make that point.
 
In one of those conversations that was played for jurors, it was between Michael Cohen and Keith Davidson. And Davidson testified that Cohen essentially -- or that Trump, essentially told Trump that he hated the fact that we did it in regards to Stormy Daniels non- disclosure agreements. So that was an important one for jurors to hear. 
 
Another one was that conversation you just pointed out between Michael Cohen and Donald Trump. For the first time jurors heard Trump in his own voice. Take a listen to that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[08:05:06] MICHAEL COHEN, FORMER TRUMP ATTORNEY:  What about me? And I can't even tell you how many times he said to me, you know, I hate the fact that we did it. And my comment to him was, but every person that you've spoken to told you it was the right move.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GINGRAS:  All right, so that's a different actual recording that was played. That's not the one that we actually hear Donald Trump. But in the one you hear Donald Trump, he essentially is talking about the deal with Karen McDougal and the payment that happened between Cohen and David Pecker, who was a witness on the stand earlier in this trial. So again, this is so important for prosecutors to lay out for jurors as this trial continues. 
 
On the defense side, they were admitting audio tapes as well. Basically, the defense was trying to show that Cohen really wanted a spot in the White House, and that these deals were advantageous to him. So there was a lot that goes into those recordings. I suspect we might even hear more as we continue hearing from testimony of from a forensic analysts who was on the stand when court adjourned yesterday. 
 
But really quickly, Sarah, as you mentioned prior to that, we heard some really intense cross-examination of Keith Davidson, the attorneys for Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal, where the defense was really trying to show that he has a pattern of helping shady clients try to get money out of celebrities. They brought up the names of Hulk Hogan and Lindsay Lohan and Charlie Sheen. So certainly got some heated moments there in court, and we'll see how that all plays out today. It's actually going to end a little bit earlier today because one juror has an appointment. So a short break about 3:45 today.
 
SIDNER:  Yes, we can certainly expect more of this, the defense trying to impugn the reputation of Keith Davidson. I have no doubts that the same thing will be used against Michael Cohen if and when he takes the stand. Thank you so much, Brynn Gingras, for all your reporting out there. John?
 
BERMAN:  We've got some breaking whether developments -- 7 million people under flood alerts from Texas to Louisiana. Life-threatening floods and severe storms have already wreaked havoc, including a tornado that obliterated homes in Holly, that's northwest of Abilene. Now, our Rosa Flores is on the phone right now. She is in New Caney, Texas. And Rosa, I understand it's actually too dangerous for you to get out of the car. We have a shot from your vehicle. Why don't you tell us what's going on around you? 
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  You're absolutely right, John. Good morning. Yes, authorities are describing this weather event as life threatening. There are already some schools in the area that have closed. And this is impacting multiple counties. 
 
But let me start where we are. And like you said, because of the light area, it's not safe for us to get out of the cars, so we're showing you a picture of what the area looks like through the windshield. And this is the area that has been declared a mandatory evacuation duration by the top executive of Harris County, County Judge Lina Hidalgo. Now, this area, and we have a map of it to show you the impacted areas. So this includes both Montgomery County and also northeast Harris County, and it includes the northeast Harris County portion south towards Lake Houston. 
 
Now, this is a very big area. The San Jacinto River is just to the east of where we are, and this is the east fork of the San Jacinto River. And just to give you some perspective, it's expected to peak at 78 feet above sea level. And for context, during hurricane Harvey, which was an exceptional rain events, the area peaked at 81 feet above sea level. And there's a creek nearby, the Caney Creek. Water levels there rose about 20 feet in less than 20 hours. And so the water is rising very quickly. 
 
Now, this is a multicounty event, and we have video from various counties. You can take a look at your screen, because there are areas that where there are homes, where there are businesses, where water has been rising. And a lot of the waterways and the tributaries that lead to Lake Houston and other lakes in the area are being impacted. And as those areas swell, that is what's really impacting some of the residents that live in those areas. Now, Texas Governor Greg Abbott has issued a disaster declaration to dozens of counties across the state that have been impacting -- impacting this area. 
 
Now, what is causing this? It's a combination of things. It's not just a precipitation. There's been a lot of water dumped during a very short period of time, large amounts of water testing to waterways and the drainage systems in this area. But there's also the water being released from the lakes in the area. There's big living centers. 
 <br>[08:10:02]
 
The dams are being utilized right now to release area -- to release water because the lake levels are so high. They are dangerously high. And so of course, that water is then drained south, and its impacting those areas where residents live around these lakes. They live around these tributaries and waterways, and it's becoming very dangerous.
 
And John, one other quick thing to mention is that the rain is not stopping. We're expecting rain all day today, and even in through the weekend.
 
BERMAN:  I have to say, Rosa, we've been watching this shot from your vehicle while you've been talking. I think the water level has gone up on this street just since you've been talking. And we were watching that vehicle come from the other end of the road behind you. This is exactly the kind of road you have to be very careful with right now because you just don't know how deep it can get. It almost seemed like that driver was trying to figure out where they could get to as the water level rises and the rain continues to pour down. 
 
Rosa, you and your team stay safe. Keep us posted, because this situation looks like it is going to get worse over the next several hours. 
 
Kate? BOLDUAN:  Dozens more protesters from Portland to New York City arrested overnight. The new message from the Biden administration now to college leaders, it's time to shut down antisemitism on campus. 
 
Plus, four American tourists are facing long prison terms over what they say for a simple packing mistake. 
 
And a first of its kind scene by scientists. An orangutan in the wild treating a wound with medicine from a tropical plant, treating itself. The discovery reported in a new study just released. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:16:25]  
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  All right, so right now, what we are seeing is police are clearing encampments at The New School here in New York. This is video from just moments ago.  
 
The protests on college campuses have also stretched, not just across the country, but also overseas with regard to Israel's war against Hamas in Gaza.  
 
In France, riot police have evacuated the main hall of Paris' Science Po University after a sit-in forced that campus to close and there was a scary moment at Portland State University, a man there, you see that white car, a man there is now taken into custody after police say he nearly drove straight into a crowd of protesters, even pepper spraying people who tried to confront him, not clear yet from police, if they believe that the protestors were a target, but still terrifying.  
 
Law enforcement did also work to clear out a library on that campus that had been overrun by demonstrators, at least 30 people were arrested.  
 
And just in to CNN, the Biden administration is ramping up its response to the unrest. We talked about President Biden speaking out, but now Education Secretary Miguel Cardona is sending a letter to university presidents this morning.  
 
CNN's Arlette Saenz is back with us from the White House. Arlette, what is the Education Secretary's message?  
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well Kate, Education Secretary Miguel Cardona is condemning antisemitic incidents on some college campuses as abhorrent. He sent this message in an e-mail to college and university presidents, really reflecting the administration's embrace of a more robust public response to the college protests unfolding across the country.  
 
This comes on the heels of President Biden speaking offering his most fulsome comments to date relating to the protests just yesterday, where he said that Americans have the right to peacefully protest, but dissent should not mean that there is disorder.  
 
He criticized the violent acts, acts of lawlessness that have unfolded on some of these college campuses, while also decrying signs of antisemitism or hate of any kind.  
 
Now that is something that Miguel Cardona, the Education Secretary, also reiterated in his letter to university officials those today. He said: "I am particularly disturbed by the sharp rise in reports of antisemitism targeting Jewish students on some college campuses. People have a right to peacefully protest policy that they disagree with. And of course, students can exercise their First Amendment rights; however, environments where students feel unsafe and discrimination on college campuses cannot be tolerated and are not permissible under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act."  
 
Now, since October 7th, the Hamas attack on Israel, the Education Department has opened 141 investigations into possible violations of Title VI under the Civil Rights Act. That prohibits discrimination based on race, color, and national origin for programs and activities that receive a federal financial assistance.  
 
The Department of Education has said this week that there are open investigations at both Columbia University, as well as Emory University. Now one thing that Miguel Cardona, the Education Secretary today will also be doing is he is meeting with a group of Jewish leaders, his first meeting of that kind since October 30th to hear directly some of their concerns.  
 
But clearly the White House, the administration is trying to engage in this more robust public response after several days of silence from President Biden himself, but now, they are forcefully out there trying to strike a very delicate balance, saying that Americans have the right to protest, but it must be done peacefully and condemning acts of antisemitism that have occurred on some college campuses.  
 <br>[08:15:10]  
 
BOLDUAN:  Arlette, thank you for the reporting -- Sara.  
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  All right, thank you, Kate.  
 
Four Americans could get locked up in a Caribbean prison for more than 10 years, for what they say they forgot to take out of their bags when they flew in to a different country.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:24:47]  
 
SIDNER:  Today, an American tourist, Bryan Hagerich, you see them standing there with his family is expected to be in court in Turks and Caicos, facing potentially 12 years in prison after he was detained in possession of live ammunition.  
 <br>[08:25:00]  
 
He is one of four Americans detained now on the popular vacation island after airport security found ammunition in their luggage.  
 
It is illegal to bring firearms or ammunition to the British overseas territory. They are very strict about it, even though the individual say they left it in their bag by mistake, they still face a minimum of 12-year prison sentence if they are found guilty.  
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales is joining us now.  
 
Obviously this -- you can't bring in certain things through the States, through TSA. How was it missed?  
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Right. Good morning, Sara, and that is one of the principal complaints from family members in a GoFundMe post for one of these Americans, Ryan Watson, the family saying that TSA never noticed that ammo when they were leaving the United States and in fact, TSA confirmed that to CNN that they failed to detect that ammo during a security screening at an Oklahoma City airport, and that TSA is addressing that oversight internally.  
 
So let me backtrack a little bit and start with Ryan and Valerie Watson. They were celebrating a friend's 40th birthday and actually trying to go home. They were at an airport there in Turks &amp; Caicos trying to return home when airport security found ammo inside of their luggage.  
 
According to a GoFundMe, the family says that they unknowingly left that ammo in a duffel bag after a deer hunting trips.  
 
So a hunter here, Valerie, was released on bail, but Ryan was forced to pay $15,000.00 to post that bond and then had to relinquish his passport. So, he is still there in Turks &amp; Caicos.  
 
It is very important that here in the US, you can actually travel with guns and ammo inside of check luggage. But in Turks &amp; Caicos, that is strictly forbidden and it can be a very costly mistake. Violators face a minimum of 12 years in prison.  
 
I also want to show you the other Americans, if we bring up that list again, there is Tyler Wenrich, 31 years old of Virginia, he is still in custody. He has not posted bond according to the government there. Michael Evans, 72 years old of Texas. Bryan Hagerich of Pennsylvania, also similar story, hunter detained while trying to fly home.  
 
His wife, telling our affiliate WPXI that it was an honest mistake. Listen.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
ASHLEY HAGERICH, HUSBAND DETAINED IN TURKS &amp; CAICOS:  That is a bag that my husband has used numerous times on hunting trips and going to hunting camp and it was just leftover in a secure pouch and you know, it's just forgotten about and people make mistakes.  
 
And in this sense, the crime just doesn't fit the sentencing and the repercussions.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
ROSALES:  And Sara, his family, they have not seen him in over 70 days. It is also important to note that a judge does have the discretion under exceptional circumstances to reduce that that sentence under 12 years in prison.  
 
SIDNER:  Isabel Rosales, thank you so much for reporting that story for us. Appreciate it -- John.  
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:   All right, Donald Trump on tape talking about hush money payments, will pay with cash, he says. What the jury will make of the new evidence in the criminal case against him. That trial picks up again shortly.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:30:00]