Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Virginia voters: How Will You Vote in November?; Philippines and China Face Off in Territorial Dispute; Data Shows Last Month was the Hottest February on Record; Children Face Starvation in Gaza as Supplies Run Out; Opening Ceremony Attendance for Paris Olympics Halved Over Security Concerns. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired March 07, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. If you're just joining us, here are some of today's top stories.
 
Alabama's governor signed a bill into law late Wednesday that protects providers of in vitro fertilization and patients from prosecution. The bill was written quickly after the state's highest court ruled that embryos are children. But it doesn't clearly define the issue of personhood or the scope of IVF protection, such as the storage of embryos. 
 
And hundreds of National Guard troops and state police are being deployed to New York City's subway system in an effort to stop crime. New York's governor says they'll patrol subway cars and check bags at the city's busiest stations. 
 
And in London yesterday, demonstrators protested outside of the Ghanaian High Commission. They're calling for Ghana's parliament to kill the country's anti-homosexuality bill that was recently passed. In part, the bill includes jail time for Ghanaians identifying as LGBTQ+. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Well, with news of Nikki Haley suspending her bid for the U.S. presidency, there will be an inevitable face-off between President Joe Biden and Donald Trump in the election this November. 
 
But now for her supporters, there's a difficult question. Who do they vote for in November? CNN's Jessica Dean reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): As she announced the suspension of her presidential campaign on Wednesday, former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley had a clear message for her rival.
 
NIKKI HALEY, FORMER U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It is now up to Donald Trump to earn the votes of those in our party and beyond it, who did not support him. And I hope he does that.
 
DEAN (voice over): Where will Haley support go now that she's exited the race? In Virginia, where she captured nearly 35 percent of the vote on Super Tuesday, we caught up with voters to ask, what will you do in November?
 
DEAN: Now that she's out and it's Trump versus Biden, what do you think?
 
BARBARA GREEN, VOTED FOR NIKKI HALEY: Oh, no question, Biden. We cannot have another four years of that man.
 
CAROLE COLBURN, VOTED FOR NIKKI HALEY: I at this point can't answer that question. I think that this country can do better than the choice we've been given. And I don't know how we can change that, but I think it's going to be a lot of difficult, thoughtful, for people to decide what to do in the future.
 
KELLY SCHOFIELD, FAIRFAX COUNTY, VOTER: I think people are looking closely, you know, at the vice presidential candidate because it's a very probable possibility that they will be president by the end of the four years.
 
DEAN (voice over): So far, the former president has offered little in the way of an olive branch to Haley or her supporters. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Writing on social media, quote: Nikki Haley got trounced last night in record setting fashion -- after weeks of lobbing insults in their direction.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Nikki Haley has made an unholy alliance with RINOs, never Trumpers. 
 
The people behind Nikki are pro-amnesty. You like that?
 
DEAN (voice over): CNN exit polling found among Haley supporters across five states, that 19 percent say they'd be satisfied with Trump as the nominee, and 79 percent dissatisfied. And yet, her supporters could be crucial for Trump's chances of winning back the White House, especially in battleground dates where the margins are likely to be slim.
 
But still, some voters told us now that Haley is out, neither Trump nor Biden will win their support.
 
JIM FETGATTER, VOTED FOR NIKKI HALEY: I'm not going to vote for either one, Biden or Trump. I'd love to vote for her again. He's just lost me on these past few years, and I -- it's mostly -- it's mostly his attitude about foreign policy and Ukraine and the -- and the chaos. Biden, I just think is not fit for office.
 
SCHOFIELD: I think it is not a sure thing that Donald Trump is going to win the general election because if you're a voter like myself, I'm going to write her in. I am not going to go to vote for Trump. I don't think he's going to be able to corral Nikki Haley supporters, and independent voters back.
 
DEAN: So the attention now turns to the likely general election matchup of Trump versus Biden, a redo of 2020. 
 
President Biden is going to have quite an opportunity on Thursday night with his State of the Union address, likely one of the largest audiences he's going to have between now and Election Day in November. And of course, he's going to try to fire up the base. But also, can he persuade any persuadables? It's the question for him and for the former president. They're going to need all the support they can get. 
 
Jessica Dean, CNN, Arlington, Virginia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: The woman in charge of guns and ammunition for the Alec Baldwin movie "Rust" has been found guilty of involuntary manslaughter for the 2021 fatal on set shooting of the film's cinematographer.
 
Hannah Gutierrez Reed was the movie's armorer. She wrongly put a live round into a prop gun that Baldwin was rehearsing with on set. When the gun went off, that bullet killed Halyna Hutchins and wounded the movie's director. Gutierrez Reed now faces up to 18 months in prison and a five thousand dollar fine. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON BOWLES, DEFENSE ATTORNEY FOR HANNAH GUTIERREZ REED: We're obviously disappointed in the verdict, but we are disappointed in a lot of things that happened in that courtroom. We plan to appeal.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Alec Baldwin is also charged with involuntary manslaughter in the shooting, and his trial is set for July. The actor has pleaded not guilty and insists he never pulled the trigger. 
 
FOSTER: Thousands of farmers have threatened to bring Poland to a standstill as they descend upon Warsaw to protest against cheap imports and environmental regulations. They burned tires in front of the prime minister's office and some clashed with police. 
 
NOBILO: The farmers say they're facing unfair competition from cheaper imports of Ukrainian grain and other food imports, creating a glut in the market which is lowering their prices. They're also angry over environmental regulations included in the EU's Green Deal to address climate change. 
 
And the London Fire Brigade is investigating after a massive fire destroyed the roof of the Forest Gate police station. 
 
FOSTER: It took nearly 200 firefighters seven hours to put the fire out. It started on Wednesday afternoon and tore through the building in East London, no injuries reported. 
 
NOBILO: Vessels from China and the Philippines are facing off in the disputed waters of the South China Sea. CNN's Ivan Watson got a first- hand look at one of their most severe confrontations to date. FOSTER: He spent two days aboard a Philippine Coast Guard ship and
 
 explains how the dispute began and why this struggle in one of the world's busiest shipping zones could spiral into a global conflict.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Water cannons and the collision of heavy ships. CNN getting a rare chance to witness the David and Goliath confrontation between the Philippines and China in the South China Sea. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are going to curtail your behavior.
 
WATSON (voice-over): The Chinese ships make their move at dawn outnumbering and swarming a small convoy from the Philippines. 
 
WATSON: We have a very good view of a large Chinese Coast Guard ship. You can see it written on the side of the vessel and it is currently steaming I would say maybe two stone throws away from this Philippines Coast Guard ship and that's not all. Look over to the starboard side here there is another Chinese Coast Guard ship right here. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): Not far away another Chinese ship collides with another Philippine ship. Fortunately no one's hurt. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You are sailing within the Philippine Exclusive Economic Zone. What is your intention, over?
 
WATSON (voice-over): I'm aboard the BRP Cabra, a Philippine Coast Guard ship. Its mission escort two resupply boats to the Second Thomas Shoal. A teardrop shaped reef claimed by both the Philippines and China even though it's clearly much closer to Philippines territory. 
 
For more than 20 years China ignored competing claims from smaller countries occupying and eventually building man-made islands on top of several contested reefs and shoals. 
 
In 1999 an unusual step from the Philippines. It grounded the Sierra Madre, a rusting World War II era ship on Second Thomas Shoal. Filipino marines have been guarding it ever since. 
 
Our convoy is supposed to resupply those marines but a much larger ship swerves dangerously close to the BRP Cabra and eventually pulls in front stopping it in its tracks.
 
Meanwhile this resupply boat doesn't stand a chance. 
 
WATSON: That little boat in front is a Philippines resupply boat and it is currently being pursued by one, two, three, at least four Chinese ships. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): They blast the boat with water cannons shattering windows and likely injuring four service members on board forcing the crew to abort their mission. The Chinese fleet includes what look like civilian vessels. 
 
WATSON: We're currently blocked and surrounded by what look like ordinary fishing boats that are flying Chinese flags and they're working in tandem with the Chinese Coast Guard. They appear to be members of China's maritime militia, a way for Beijing to project power here in the South China Sea. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): Beijing now accuses the Philippines of being dishonest and deliberately stirring up trouble. 
 
MAO NING, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator); The Philippines' rights-infringing and provocative attempts will not succeed. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): But the Philippines remains defiant. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If the hope of China is to weaken the Philippine resolve they will be sorely disappointed. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): The night before the confrontation we steamed past a U.S. Navy ship, the USS Mobile, apparently being shadowed from a distance by this Chinese Navy ship and helicopter. 
 
A looming question, would the U.S. come to the help of its mutual defense treaty ally, the Philippines, if tensions escalate further with China, owner of the world's largest Navy? 
 
Ivan Watson, CNN, on the South China Sea.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Well, the earth has reached a grim new climate change milestone. Scientists say last month was the world's hottest February on record, more than 1.7 degrees Celsius warmer than pre-industrial levels. CNN's Chad Myers has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN WEATHER CORRESPONDENT: According to the very latest press release from Copernicus Climate Change Service, February of 2024 globally was the warmest February on record and really to no surprise. It was 1.77 degrees C above pre-industrial levels. And in fact there were some days at the beginning of February that were more than 2 degrees C above normal globally. 
 
Again, we're talking land and sea and all that. And look at this. This is the warmest sea surface temperatures we have ever experienced here. 
 
Look how big of a gap that is, too. It's like 0.2 degrees higher than any time we've ever seen that we've been measuring ocean surface temperatures. Something that's disturbing for the Atlantic hurricane season is this big red area here. 
 
The warmest on record for this time of year for that eastern part of the Atlantic. It is so warm that there was a very rare tropical system that moved into Brazil over their summertime, of course, but still very rare for that to happen. 
 
Moving farther on down to the south -- because we know this is southern hemisphere summer. 
 
We did have a near record for Antarctic Sea ice, a near record low, but not quite still about the third lowest. But look how close that was to the bottom of this scale. So not much ice down there either. And now with sunshine, the northern hemisphere is starting to heat up as well. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Just ahead, some of the youngest victims of the war in Gaza. See how the conflict between Israel and Hamas is taking a toll on children. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: A 15-year-old boy died from malnutrition in Gaza City on Wednesday. Gaza's health ministry says he is one of at least 20 people to have died from starvation and dehydration since the war began.
 
As CNN's Nada Bashir reports, parents are burying their children as hospitals run out of food and supplies. And whilst these images of their reality are distressing, the mothers interviewed say they want the world to see them. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): Tiny limbs, bones protruding. The constant sound of crying from children now facing starvation in Gaza.
 
In this overrun hospital ward, anxious mothers watch on as doctors provide whatever care they still can. But for some, there is nothing more to be done.
 
Three-year-old Mila, who had been suffering from acute malnutrition, now another victim of this merciless war.
 
She was healthy. There was nothing wrong with her before, Mila's mother says. Then suddenly, everything dropped. She wasn't eating anything. We had no milk, no eggs, nothing. She used to eat eggs every day before the war, but now we have nothing.
 
Across Gaza, too many are feeling the pain of this deepening hunger crisis. Small children emaciated and malnourished.
 
These were little Yazan's final moments, his tiny fingers gripped in his mother's hand. He, like Mila, would not make it.
 
Others are still just barely holding on, but there is no telling how long they will survive.
 
Standing beside Mila's body, Dr. Ahmed Salem says many children at this hospital are now dying due to a lack of food and oxygen supplies.
 
With limited aid getting in, many have grown desperate, searching for food wherever they can. Nine-year-old Mohamed says he walks for about a mile every day to collect water for his family.
 
You seem sad. Why? This journalist asks him. Because of the war, he says. It is all too much.
 
On Tuesday, U.N. experts accused Israel of intentionally starving the Palestinian people in Gaza, noting that the Israeli military is now targeting both civilians seeking aid and humanitarian convoys.
 
Israel has denied targeting civilians and says that there is, quote, no limit to the amount of humanitarian aid for civilians in Gaza. 
 
But the reality on the ground paints a very different picture. 
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
There is no food, no water, no flour, cooking oil or anything, this woman says. Death is better than this.
 
According to a senior U.N. official, at least a quarter of Gaza's population is now said to be just one step away from famine. With aid agencies facing overwhelming obstacles in getting the bare minimum of supplies into Gaza. And as Israel's ground offensive threatens to push further into the Strip's densely populated south, time is quickly running out.
 
While international efforts to airdrop humanitarian supplies have provided some respite, it is simply not enough.
 
With stalling negotiations leaving little hope for an end to the suffering and hunger of the Palestinian people in Gaza.
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: As the deadly fighting between Israel and Hamas continues, so too does a dire humanitarian crisis. CNN has gathered a list of vetted organizations that are on the ground responding. You can find details on how you can help at a special section of our website dedicated to that, which is cnn.com/impact.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Attendance for the opening ceremony of the Paris Olympics will be cut in half due to security concerns. French authorities originally boasted that some 600,000 people would be able to attend the festivities along the Seine. Now it will be closer to 300,000. 
 
FOSTER: That's still about four times the capacity of the country's main stadium though. The French interior minister said Paris is not facing a specific terrorist threat, but airspace around the city will be closed during the ceremony and an anti-terrorist security perimeter will be in place. 
 
It kind of makes you wonder whether the people who get tickets still want to go. I mean, it's alarming, isn't it? 
 
NOBILO: It always is, but I suppose whenever security's at its highest, it's technically the safest, even though there is an obvious deterrent there. 
 
You've got a very intense ankle circle going on, which is distracting me from the script.
 
FOSTER: You're stressing me out. 
 
In tennis, Rafael Nadal has withdrawn from the BNP Paribas Open just hours before he was set to play in the first round in California. 
 
NOBILO: The 22-time Grand Slam winner explained his reason for dropping out on social media. 
 
Quote, I don't find myself ready to play at the highest level at such an important event. It's not an easy decision, but I can't lie to myself and I can't lie to the thousands of fans. 
 
FOSTER: The 37-year-old has battled a series of injuries in recent years, which caused him to miss several major tournaments. He said last May that 2024 would likely be his final year playing professional tennis. 
 
NOBILO: And it turns out humans aren't the only species that enjoy a popular tourist spot. The spectacular fountains at the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas were turned off on Tuesday after a rare, yellow-billed loon -- I was going to make a joke there, but I won't -- was spotted taking a dip. 
 
FOSTER: I think he should complain about the name the humans have given him.
 
NOBILO: Yes. 
 
FOSTER: The yellow bill is a migratory bird generally found in coastal regions, according to wildlife officials. But biologists safely captured it the next day and sent it to a more suitable, quieter location. 
 
He must be really annoyed, the loon. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
A messy napkin is not something most of us would want to touch. But what about a serviette used to present a signing offer to a 13-year- old Lionel Messi? A napkin promising a contract to the future football phenom is going up for auction later this month with a starting bid around $382,000. 
 
NOBILO: The writing, which is in part: In Barcelona, on 14th December 2000, FC Barcelona's sporting director hereby agrees to sign the player Lionel Messi. 
 
The napkin is currently part of an exhibition in New York before it travels to London and then Paris later this month. 
 
FOSTER: That's pretty cool. 
 
NOBILO: Very well travelled. 
 
FOSTER: Yes. A white shirt that stole the hearts of a generation and helped turn Colin Firth into a heartthrob has sold at auction for a swoon-inducing $25,000.
 
My wife will tell you about this scene. Firth wore the legendary white button-down while playing Mr. Darcy in the BBC adaptation of Pride and Prejudice. The scene where he emerged from a lake swim only to bump into his demure love interest as the wet garment clung to his chest.
 
Thank you, writers. It's one that many will never forget. Bianca, do you remember it? 
 
NOBILO: I don't. That wasn't really my time. But I said that I think you have that sort of vibe for people that find you appealing. 
 
FOSTER: I'll take that. 
 
NOBILO: Colin Firth. 
 
FOSTER: A very large group. 
 
NOBILO: It is.
 
FOSTER: The linen shirt was expected to fetch close to $13,000 at auction but fans of Mr. Darcy drove the price to nearly double that. And I imagine they are all 50-something ladies. 
 
NOBILO: Yes, possibly. I think you should try wearing that on casual Fridays. 
 
FOSTER: Shall I? Shall I do it on your last day? 
 
NOBILO: Please don't. 
 
FOSTER: Especially for you. We'll find a hot tub and I'll emerge out of it. 
 
NOBILO: Oh no, don't. My breakfast is coming up. 
 
On March 15th, two lucky book lovers will be able to -- 
 
FOSTER: This is not another book story again. Tell us another story, Bianca. 
 
NOBILO: It is also a romantic story as well. Two lucky book lovers will be able to spend a night celebrating in a remarkable place and that place is the hidden library of St Paul's Cathedral in London. Airbnb is hosting the special listing to mark World Book Day in the UK. 
 
FOSTER: It's not very hidden anymore, is it? For less than $9, two guests will get a tour, dinner and signed copies of unreleased new novels. You can try to grab those tickets actually on Tuesday. Have you got a library story for us you can share? 
 
NOBILO: I know I don't but I did go on the website already because I really want to do that. 
 
FOSTER: Great story. 
 
NOBILO: Yes.
 
FOSTER: Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster. 
 
NOBILO: I'm going to drown in a pond. And I'm Bianca Nobilo. CNN "THIS MORNING" up next after a quick break. 
 <br>[05:00:00]