Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Biden to Sign $95B Foreign Aid Package after Senate Approval; Pentagon Accounts of Deadly Kabul Airport Blast Questioned; New Video Undermines Pentagon Account of 2021 Kabul Blast; U.S. Supreme Court Hears Emergency Abortion Case; Rampaging Military Horses Recovered by Army. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired April 24, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ERICA HILL, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: It is 9 am here in New York. I'm Erica Hill. This is "Connect the World". Happening this hour, U.S. 
 
 President Joe Biden set to sign a bill that provides billions of dollars in foreign aid. We'll have the view from the White House and also from Israel. 
 
 Then pro-Palestinian demonstrations spreading to more American campuses as Columbia University extends talks with students for another 48 hours.
 
Plus, a CNN exclusive report a new video challenging the Pentagon's official account of a horrific ISIS-K attack in Kabul in 2021 as U.S. 
 
 troops were withdrawing from Afghanistan. Standing by alleys standing up to adversaries and standing tall on the global stage, this hour, the U.S. is 
 
 trying to remind the world of its full diplomatic dominance.
 
In the past few hours, U.S. Secretary of State arrived in China for a two day visit. He's expected to talk tough on issues including the Middle East 
 
 Ukraine's war with Beijing's ally, Russia and tensions in the South China Sea. The timing here hugely significant, the Senate of course in the U.S. 
 
 has just approved a $95 billion foreign aid package.
 
The president expected to sign that in the coming hours. In addition to aid for Israel, the package also includes tens of billions in support for 
 
 Ukraine, Taiwan and the Indo-Pacific region. Something Beijing of course, is eyeing very closely. Ukraine's President says this vote quote reinforces 
 
 America's role as a beacon of democracy and the leader of the free world.
 
Israeli lawmakers also hailing that U.S. aid package. Nic Robertson is in Jerusalem, Arlette Saenz is that the White House. Arlette, I want to begin 
 
 with you. President Biden has said he will sign this bill today. How quickly then could the aid move?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erica, President Biden is vowing to act quickly saying he will sign this legislation in the coming 
 
 hours with the ultimate goal of getting this new weaponry and equipment into Ukrainian soldier's hands this week. The passage of this $95 billion 
 
 package really marks a major milestone for President Biden who has spent the past six months pushing privately and publicly to get this aid across 
 
 the finish line.
 
President Biden has staked so much of the past two years on the war in Ukraine, trying to rally Western support for the war torn country amid its 
 
 invasion from Russia. And this comes even as he has grappled with a constant uphill battle to get this across the finish line on Capitol Hill 
 
 with many Republicans resistant to the idea of additional aid.
 
Ultimately, the House voted on Saturday and the Senate passed this legislation last night which will provide nearly $61 billion in aid for 
 
 Ukraine. The President spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Monday and the two talked through what that next package of assistance 
 
 could look like.
 
Sources tell CNN that the administration has been preparing about a billion dollars in aid for Ukraine. That could potentially include long range 
 
 attackers for the very first time, as well as air defense and artillery ammunition for the soldiers on the battlefield. But really, the signing of 
 
 this legislation will cap off months of intense and patient negotiations behind the scene.
 
The cheap ejected for the administration has been trying to get House Speaker Mike Johnson on board. Johnson was a relative unknown to White 
 
 House officials when the president made this supplemental request for aid for Israel, Ukraine, and Taiwan. And one thing that they had been battling 
 
 and aware of was the dynamic within the Republican conference has many on the right flank had threatened to up end Johnson speakership if you were to 
 
 allow a vote on Ukraine aid.
 
Now the president, I'm told a directed his team, really with two main objectives, one trying to clearly lay out the stakes for Johnson of what 
 
 would happen if it action continued that including providing very detailed intelligence briefings as to the landscape of Ukraine's battlefield as well 
 
 as what could come if they didn't get that additional assistance.
 
The president also directed his team to directly be lay off, of attacking Johnson directly as this process played out. He wanted to give as much room 
 
 as possible in the negotiations for these conversations to be productive. Ultimately, the conversations really picked up a lot of steam over the 
 
 course of the past six weeks with Steve Ricchetti a Chief Counselor to President Biden serving as the main point line between the White House and 
 
 Johnson directly.
 
The two men I'm told spoke regularly over the course of the past four weeks to try to get this across the finish line. So, President Biden a bit later 
 
 today expected to take a bit of a victory lap as he signs this aid package into law as he's trying to once again show that the U.S. remains committed 
 
 to Ukraine and rallying that Western support for the country admitted to invasion from Russia.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
HILL: Arlette, appreciate the reporting from the White House, thank you. Nic, as we look at this, there is of course aid for Israel also for Gaza. 
 
 What is the reaction there in Jerusalem?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yeah, we've heard from the Israeli President, we've heard from the foreign minister, we've heard 
 
 from Yair Lapid one of the most senior opposition figures here. And they're all saying thank you for this bipartisan effort to get the bill over the 
 
 line.
 
And the reason that they point to the bipartisan effort is because there's a sense certainly among Israel's politicians, that Democrats to a degree 
 
 have been alienated by the way the war is being fought in Gaza. Prime Minister here has taken a lot of criticism from President Biden over the 
 
 high civilian death toll there more than 34,000 people so far, the lack of humanitarian aid.
 
So there's a point there that's being made or another point that's being made as this highlights, they say the shared values that the United States 
 
 and Israel have. And I think, again, that's pushed back on the same issue, to try to create that sense in the United States that this is a necessary 
 
 and just fight, an important fight for the United States to that Israel is having with Hamas.
 
So that's part of the message. But I think a bigger part of the message as well, that's coming across all the senior political figures are talking 
 
 about the fact the United States and Israel is aligned here that this money the billions upon billions of convoys predominantly for military aid, is a 
 
 message to Israel's enemies.
 
And over the weekend, we heard the defense minister, when the bill was passed in the House saying this, we you know we're fighting enemies on 
 
 seven fronts. And it's a message to the enemies that is particularly pertinent right now, because there is a sense in Israel that the reason 
 
 Iran made that paradigm shift two weeks ago and attacked Israel massively directly was because they perceived a weakness between Prime Minister 
 
 Netanyahu and President Biden.
 
So by this money coming through for the weapons and the security of Israel, they hope will send a message to Iran and others, that the two countries 
 
 are very much joined up on this.
 
HILL: I also want to ask you about Nic, the U.N. calling for a new investigation into these mass graves, which CNN has been reporting on. What 
 
 are the chances that investigation happens? Do we know?
 
ROBERTSON: There may be an investigation of sorts there's an investigation right now by Palestinians inside of Gaza 324 bodies by this morning had 
 
 been found in the hospital in Khan Younis where IDF pulled out from a few weeks ago that hospital had been at the center of their military 
 
 operations.
 
The IDF said look, we were digging up the graves in the hospital because we thought that there might be hostages that hostages buried there. And we 
 
 were checking the remains for DNA, their defense about the accusations being made by the Palestinian authorities taking up those bodies as the 
 
 bodies had been moved, that they had been treated without respect.
 
The IDF says they've been treated with respect. We do this in a meaningful and careful way and put the bodies back exactly where we found them. That's 
 
 not the experience of the Palestinian authorities and families on the ground and what the U.N. is calling for here, specifically in this climate 
 
 where there's a lack of trust between the two sides is for independent international investigators to be on board in an investigation.
 
Now, as these investigations play out in real time on the ground because of the conditions. It seems unlikely that Israel has always held off and has a 
 
 testy relationship with the U.N. at the moment is likely to let international investigators in on the ground in the short term.
 
HILL: Yeah, important context as always, Nic really appreciate it. Thank you. Here in New York, Columbia University is now extending its negotiation 
 
 window with student activists. This of course is over a dismantling a pro- Palestinian encampment that has escalated tensions at the Ivy League school.
 
A Columbia spokesperson says the talks were extended for another 48 hours that's past the initial midnight deadline after in the words of that person 
 
 important progress was made. Pro-Palestinian demonstrations have rocked Colombia for more than a week. The movement has spread to other campuses 
 
 across the U.S. as well. CNN's Omar Jimenez is near the encampment, Omar good to see you, what are you noticing any difference this morning?
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, so what we're outside right now. We're outside Columbia University outside the gates where we've seen a 
 
 number of protests like this happen now. What's critical about these protests in different from what's happening on campus is these protests 
 
 because they're outside the university gates tend to have people who are not students.
 
And people who in some cases, the student organizers have distanced themselves for the rhetoric that they say does not line up with what they 
 
 are saying.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
But basically, they are saying Free Palestine as we've been hearing that is a pro Palestine protests here you can see the Free Palestine sign on the 
 
 edge of Columbia's campus, though I will say people from campus had been coming over to either watch these protests, or they hung that sign there as 
 
 well.
 
When you talk about the encampment itself, it is now in its 8th day on campus. And they have told me that their primary reason for protests is 
 
 they want to make Columbia University divest from all corporations, they say are supporting Israeli apartheid and genocide. Now, part of that has 
 
 created what some would call a tense environment on campus.
 
One Jewish student even told me she does not feel safe on campus. And that is sort of the range of what we have seen. You mentioned the midnight 
 
 deadline to clear these encampments. Well, the university president put that midnight deadline into place or at least announced it yesterday 
 
 evening, midnight came in one.
 
And then hours later, the university, a university spokesperson said that they had actually been making constructive progress in negotiations. And so 
 
 now these talks will continue for at least another 48 hours. Some of those specific tent poles are that they apparently agreed to dismantle and remove 
 
 a significant number of tents to ensure that those not affiliated with Colombia will leave and to take steps to make sure the encampment is 
 
 welcome to all.
 
But of course, as you know, Erica, we've seen a wide range of protests, some that have been very peaceful and calling simply for solidarity with 
 
 Gaza, some that have been a little bit more violent in rhetoric and a little bit more anti-Semitic. A lot of those have come more frequently in 
 
 those protests that we've seen outside of campus.
 
But again, there are Jewish students on campus who have told me they feel unsafe and part of that dynamic is the reason why Columbia University put 
 
 all of the classes, hybrid through the end of the semester, which was always scheduled to be Monday out of an abundance of caution and because 
 
 safety is their priority, they say.
 
But it does lead you to question what will happen once we hit that 48 hour deadline as they had previously said they would have to find alternative 
 
 ways to clear the encampment. We will have to see what happens then.
 
HILL: Yeah, we'll be watching to see. Omar, appreciate it thank you. And infamous ISIS-K attack at Kabul's airport is now back under the microscope 
 
 new evidence including soldiers GoPro video is throwing the Pentagon's account in doubt. Our exclusive report is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: As the Taliban is rabid takeover of Afghanistan in 2021 was in its final days and U.S. forces were scrambling to get out a bomb rip through a 
 
 crowd of Afghans seeking evacuation at cobbles Airport. 170 Afghans and 13 U.S. service members were killed. The Pentagon has insisted every one was 
 
 killed by that blast, new video and eyewitness evidence however obtained by CNN.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Now bring that account into questions. CNN's Chief Security Correspondent Nick Paton Walsh has this investigation
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you guys in the right state of mind? Let's go.
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): This video, not fully seen in public before reveals brutal facts long denied by the U.S. military on August 26, 2021, a moment of acute 
 
 savagery at the end of America's longest war. Two Pentagon investigations insisted all 170 Afghans and 13 U.S. military who died here were killed by 
 
 an ISIS bomber, and nobody hit by gunfire.
 
GENERAL KENNETH F. MCKENZIE, COMMANDER AT U.S. CENTCOM: No definitive proof that anyone was ever hit or killed by gunfire.
 
WALSH (voice-over): But this new video, which begins outside the airport's Abbey Gate entrance reveals much more shooting after the blast than the 
 
 Pentagon said, combined with new accounts to CNN of marines opening fire and of gunshot injuries and Afghan civilians.
 
It challenges the rigor and reliability of the two Pentagon investigations that declared no Afghan civilians were shot dead in the chaotic aftermath. 
 
 The bomb detonates. The footage then stops and picks up three seconds later.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I got that on film dude. They are breaking through.
 
WALSH (voice-over): Many marines here were young, some on their first deployment. The gunfight starts. They run for cover. This long burst has 
 
 about 17 shots, bringing us a total of 20. We're telling shots fired and episodes of fire based on to forensic analysis on screen. We cannot see who 
 
 is still firing here and we never see marines or anyone firing in this video.
 
Short controlled bursts in isolation. CS gas canister has exploded in the blast is gas choking this marine. And in a moment, the total episodes of 
 
 gunfire you've heard will start being more than the three that Pentagon has said happened. The gunfire continues. We look forward to 27 seconds. As 
 
 Afghans aren't raised run into the airport.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is smoke and dirt around.
 
WALSH (voice-over): One burst now another.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is that the -- TB bro?
 
WALSH (voice-over): They wonder if the Taliban the TB is shooting. Two Marines told us they saw the Taliban just after the blast looking as 
 
 shocked as they were multiple marines we spoke to who were there said they felt they were under fire. But the Pentagon has insisted for two years and 
 
 no militant gunman opened fire here.
 
They've said the only shots fired here were two bursts by U.S. marines and one from U.K. troops once in a big burst from a nearby tower. All bursts 
 
 near simultaneous.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get down. Are you good?
 
WALSH (voice-over): So according to their investigations, we must be hearing marines all the British firing here -- was nearly two minutes 
 
 during which there are three bursts and the heading outside to help at least 43 shots and 11 episodes of shooting just short of four minutes of 
 
 sporadic fire, most of which the Pentagon has said for two years did not happen.
 
This is how terrifying it was for Afghans outside minutes after the blast. So who was shooting? For the first time a marine eyewitness has come 
 
 forward and told CNN the first big burst of gunfire at the start of the GoPro video you just saw came from where U.S. marines was standing near the 
 
 blast site. We're using a different voice to hide his identity as he fears reprisals for describing the gunfire.
 
DR. SAYED AHMADI, FORMER KABUL HOSPITAL DIRECTOR: It was it was multiple. There's no doubt about that. It wasn't -- it was a mass volume of gunfire.
 
WALSH: Down towards the Abby Gate sniper tower from roughly an area not too far away from where the blast had gone off. That's where you heard the 
 
 shooting emanate from. Would have been around that area?
 
AHMADI: Yes. And there were U.S. marines right. This was likely emanating from marines on the ground.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
WALSH: Yes. You think they fired into the ground?
 
AHMADI: I couldn't tell you for certain.
 
WALSH: But they wouldn't have fired into the air, right?
 
AHMADI: No, they would not have fired into the air.
 
WALSH: Because you had a specific, no warning shots order, right.
 
AHMADI: It wasn't a direct order. But it was a common understanding, no warning shots.
 
WALSH (voice-over): These are kids, they're young. And they've only been taught what they've been taught. Some of these kids have been with the unit 
 
 for quite literally two, three months prior to deployment.
 
WALSH (voice-over): We spoke to over 10 other marines anonymously about gunfire, some felt they were shot at a couple of even said they saw a gun 
 
 man, but two other stand out who we were unable to reach ourselves. Both injured, both admitting some memories were fuzzy. But one clear, he heard 
 
 orders to fire the other that, he opened fire himself.
 
ROMEL FINLEY, BLAST SURVIVOR: I see my platoon sergeant walk past us saying get back on that wall and shoot back at those -- so I'm like a word of 
 
 gunfight too. Like all I hear is ringing flashes going on. And then I start hearing snaps. And I started realizing that's -- anatomy, distortion that 
 
 we did.
 
WALSH (voice-over): Sort of Afghans themselves 170 of whom died. The Pentagon has insisted all injuries and deaths were from the bomb when it's 
 
 ball bearings. But two years ago, CNN heard significant dividends from 19 eyewitnesses that Afghans were shot and from Afghan medical staff counting 
 
 dozens of dead from bullets.
 
Key was Sayed Ahmadi had doctor at the Kabul hospital treating most of the wounded. Back then he was afraid to speak openly. And his account was 
 
 dismissed by the Pentagon. But now we met him safe with asylum in Finland. He says he and his staff had the expertise to diagnose over 50 dead from 
 
 gunfire that night.
 
AHMADI: 170 people were killed totally. But should the register, what we had, maybe 145.
 
WALSH: And by your estimation, about half.
 
AHMADI: More than half were killed by gunshot.
 
WALSH: So when you hear the American investigation say that you're just wrong, you don't know what you're talking about.
 
AHMADI: I wonder. I hope one day they ask me or they call me what you saw, like you come here and asked me, you came to Kabul and ask me about the 
 
 situation. They never ask me.
 
WALSH (voice-over): Even though we described the video and our findings in great detail to the Pentagon, they said they would need to examine any new 
 
 unseen video before they could assess it, they said their first investigation had thoroughly looked at allegations of outgoing fire from 
 
 U.S. and coalition forces following the blast.
 
They said their review released earlier this month focused not on gunfire but the bomber and events leading up to the blast but found no new evidence 
 
 of a complex attack, and uncovered no new assertions of outgoing fire having no materialistic impact on the original investigation.
 
Investigators have also not interviewed any Afghans for their reports the Pentagon said, leaving the question of how hungry for the truth. Are they?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: Nick, it's such an important report and interesting too, that you ended there on the them having not interviewed any Afghans for that U.S. 
 
 report what comes next at this point?
 
WALSH (on camera): Yeah, look, I mean, there's onus now I think, on the U.S. military to clear up the discrepancy between what that video shows the 
 
 extensive gunfire you hear and what they repeatedly claim has occurred. Also on them to potentially make public the extent of the evidence they had 
 
 in a recent congressional hearing.
 
The two generals in charge at the time McKenzie and Millie the Chief of Staff, Joint Chief of Staff admitted that they had indeed seen some video 
 
 that the military accepted they had that's potentially very relevant to their inquiries, but that had not indeed been seen by congressional 
 
 investigators and has not been made public.
 
Also to I should point out that there are many families of those who died. There are many survivors who we spoke to who are increasingly angry or they 
 
 feel as a lack of transparency about the narrative. They simply aren't buying the explanation that they're hearing and the new video you saw 
 
 there, again, I think will undermine the Pentagon's a bit.
 
It's a stain that narrative that video itself, too, is a bit of a riddle as well. We first saw bits of it, when the Pentagon released the four seconds 
 
 of it that showed the blast itself. You saw that in the report there. We didn't know if they'd seen any more of it. We still don't know they've 
 
 obviously potentially seen it this morning.
 
And so there's a broader question potentially here about when they saw that for second blast, whether they felt to themselves well.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
We should probably find out what else there might be in that video we don't know the answer that particular question and think it adds to the broad 
 
 sense you heard there of exactly how extensive this investigation has really been if it really has on turned every stone, or just the stones that 
 
 the military knew what was lurking under back to you.
 
HILL: That's clearly raising those questions. And to your point, how much of an appetite is there to get that full story and to perhaps expand this? 
 
 Is it your sense that there is an appetite at this point in Washington for that?
 
WALSH: No. In short, I think it would be from pressure, from family members or potentially Congress that would maybe spark the Pentagon or Central 
 
 Command to open their investigation again, but I should point out, they've investigated twice over two years and come up with the same conclusions, 
 
 conclusions, which are frankly, not compatible with that authentic video from the scene.
 
So I would suggest at this point, there's an enormous hunger on their part, they're getting to this again, but maybe today might change parts of that 
 
 there might be pressure from elsewhere. And there might to also be within the American administration of President Joe Biden a hunger to make sure 
 
 this is handled correctly, that truth is necessarily pursued throughout, so at least a lot of questions to be answered here.
 
HILL: Yeah, absolutely. Nick, such important reporting, really appreciate it thank you. This is "Connect the World" live today from New York. Just 
 
 ahead here, we're going to take a look at the provision in this massive U.S. foreign aid package that aims to ban TikTok potentially in the United 
 
 States.
 
What would actually happen, need to happen to prevent that ban from taking place. Plus the U.S. Supreme Court today poised to hear arguments on the 
 
 most significant abortion rights case perhaps since Roe v. Wade was overturned we'll take a closer look at what's at stake, a live report from 
 
 Washington just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: Welcome back, I'm Erica Hill in New York. You're watching "Connect the World". Tesla stock price being watched very closely at the opening 
 
 bell which is just about a minute away this of course coming a day after some disappointing first quarter earnings. The electric vehicle giant saw 
 
 those earnings plummet by 48 percent falling short of most forecasts.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
The company assured investors though by announcing plans to lower the prices on one of its car models which are expected to go into production, 
 
 later next year. Boeing's earnings now first quarter losses, they're actually smaller than Investors had feared. But Boeing is still warning 
 
 investors and employees it will have to further cut back on production to deal with the quality and safety issues.
 
The company says that means it will produce fewer 737 max jets than it had originally planned for the rest of the year. The Biden administration 
 
 announcing new consumer protections for airline travelers, which include getting cash refunds instead of a travel voucher, if faced with a long 
 
 flight delay or other inconveniences, including your checked luggage that you paid to check if that arrives late.
 
The rules would also require airlines to disclose more fees upfront. A trade group representing airline carriers calls those new rules 
 
 unnecessary. The foreign aid package passed overnight in the U.S. could lead to a ban on TikTok here in the United States. Unless it's Chinese 
 
 parent company ByteDance sells that video sharing platform within nine months.
 
China's Foreign Ministry has blasted the prospect of a forced sale calling it an abuse of state power. CNN's Hadas Gold is here now with more this 
 
 hour. So Hadas, walk us through what it would actually take for TikTok to be banned in the United States.
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN MEDIA CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, is this the beginning of the end for TikTok. For TikTok 170 million users it is one of if not the most 
 
 popular app in the United States. And American officials have been warning for years about what they see as national security risk.
 
But now, that talk has finally turned into action. A President Biden is expected to sign this bill. And that would start the clock on a forced sale 
 
 or a ban of TikTok's operations in the United States, they will have 270 days it's about nine months to spin off TikTok that puts us past the 
 
 November election key point there.
 
So you might still see TikTok during this 2024 election. But even as President Biden signs this and that clock starts ticking, there will be 
 
 probably a delay for this coming into effect. First of all, within the bill, there are extensions that President Biden can sign if he sees that a 
 
 sale is likely to be imminent.
 
And TikTok has already said in a statement that there will be legal challenges to this. They say this is the beginning, not the end of this 
 
 long process. And they call this a clear violation of the First Amendment and it is expected they're going to make a First Amendment challenge to 
 
 this into the courts.
 
Now, there are some legal scholars who say that the government will have a tough time proving that its effort to ban TikTok is constitutional that 
 
 TikTok may have First Amendment grounds to stand on, but the government will likely be making some big national security arguments here in court.
 
Now, in honor of Passover, I have four questions about what happens now in the future of TikTok. First of all, will there be retaliation from China? 
 
 Will we see trying to take action on American technology companies like Apple, like a Tesla? What will happen to TikTok's algorithm which is the 
 
 key aspect of this app, if it has to do the spin off or sale likely it will stay in China. China won't want to let that go.
 
And that really is what makes TikTok so valuable. Who would buy a potential TikTok spin off, it's going to be very, very expensive, potentially tens of 
 
 billions of dollars. We've seen Microsoft and Oracle have interest in the past. Former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has also expressed interest.
 
And then where would the users go if they can't go to TikTok? So who would benefit from this most likely it's going to be Meta and Google, Instagram 
 
 and YouTube and the like. But the key thing for users to remember in all this, the TikTok, as you don't know, it's not going away today, tomorrow or 
 
 even in the next few months potentially with this legal challenges. It's going to take potentially years until you see tick tock off your home 
 
 screen, Erica.
 
HILL: It's fascinating. And I love that your four questions are basically the questions that I had. So that was helpful. Thank you for answering them 
 
 as well. Real quickly before I let you go, as this does play out, you pointed out that it could be months at this point and the fact that this is 
 
 being pushed past the November election. There's also a good chance this will continue to come up on the campaign trail -- imagine.
 
GOLD: It will come up on the campaign trail and national security concerns. But what's really interesting is that the campaign's they want to use 
 
 TikTok because so many of the voters especially young voters, that's where they live, that's where they get their information.
 
So while the United States is trying to ban a force a sale, you will see President Biden, you will see former President Trump and all of their 
 
 allies using TikTok to try to get the vote out.
 
HILL: Going to be quite arrived for the next few months. Hadas appreciate it. Thank you. Next hour the Flashpoint issue of reproductive rights in 
 
 America firmly in the spotlight again, the U.S. Supreme Court is set to hear arguments in one of the most critical abortion cases since Roe V. Wade 
 
 was overturned almost exactly two years ago.
 
So the justices here are set to consider today whether hospitals have an obligation under a federal law to provide emergency abortions to women who 
 
 are suffering in medical emergency. This stems from a lawsuit that was filed by the Biden Administration suing the State of Idaho which has a near 
 
 total abortion ban.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
CNN's Justice Correspondent Jessica Schneider is covering from Washington. So Jess this is really important they're suing saying that the Idaho law 
 
 essentially violates a federal law. Walk us through what these arguments are here.
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well Erica, you know, this is really the first time that the Supreme Court is being asked to weigh in on 
 
 a state law that criminalizes abortion since the Supreme Court overruled Roe V. Wade two years ago. 
 
So like you were saying, Idaho has this law, and it's currently in effect, and it makes it a felony to perform or assist in performing an abortion. 
 
 The punishment is actually pretty weighty up to five years in prison doctors can also have their medical license suspended if they're found 
 
 guilty. The only exceptions to this are if a woman's life is in danger, or if a woman is a victim of a rape or incest that's actually been reported to 
 
 law enforcement. 
 
So that's the Idaho law. The Biden Administration, though they've sued to stop this law from taking effect. And the DOJ is pointing at this federal 
 
 law it's known as EMTALA. Now, this was a law that was actually enacted in 1986. It requires emergency room doctors to offer necessary stabilizing 
 
 treatment when the health of the woman is in danger. 
 
The Biden Administration is saying that you know sometimes that necessary treatment, it can include abortion. So they're saying that the mother is 
 
 extremely sick, but not necessarily on death's door. And the doctors determine abortion is the best course of action. The federal government is 
 
 saying this federal law should upend the Idaho law that bans most abortions.
 
Now, Idaho has responded to this. And they're saying wait a minute, there's nothing actually in this federal law written in the text that says anything 
 
 specifically about abortion. And they're saying, look, this law was only an acted with the intent that emergency room doctors would have to treat 
 
 patients regardless of whether or not they could pay.
 
So what we'll likely hear in these arguments that start at 10 am is a lot of talk about the text of this federal statute, the intent of Congress when 
 
 they passed the law. Of course these are favorite areas of inquiry for this conservative court. But the ramifications of this case, it really could be 
 
 widespread, because there are about 20 states that right now severely restrict abortion two years after Roe V. Wade was overturned. 
 
And if this Court were to side with the Biden Administration, saying that, yes, this federal law preempts any state laws -- you know it really could 
 
 serve as essentially overturning many of these state's laws with abortion bans when it comes to emergency room care. 
 
So Erica, it's a bit thorny, a bit complicated. But really, it comes down to whether this federal law saying that doctors should move in and act how 
 
 they need to in emergency room situations, even when that includes perhaps abortions to help a woman in maybe a life threatening condition whether 
 
 that preempts a state law that totally bans abortions, that is the core of the issue here. And the argument started at 10 am today.
 
HILL: It's interesting too, that there have been -- you know multiple filings in support of this Idaho law one of them warning that this would 
 
 actually create a nationwide abortion mandate in hospital ERs that's not actually what this would do just to be clear; it would simply and correct 
 
 me if I'm wrong.
 
It would simply give the doctors if they see that, as you point out, a woman is not at death's door, but he's suffering a serious medical 
 
 emergency. And there's a chance that that abortion could save the woman's life. It's essentially allowing them to practice what they see as being in 
 
 their patient's best interest without fear of those repercussions, as you pointed out, losing their license in the State of Idaho, or even going to 
 
 jail.
 
SCHNEIDER: I mean you pretty much summed it up perfectly Erica. You did better than my actual live head. But yes, I mean, that is exactly what it 
 
 is. They're doctors throughout this country in states where there are these abortion bans. These doctors are really paralyzed because they're very 
 
 concerned about the criminal repercussions, losing their medical license, going to jail facing these fines. 
 
And when a woman presents to them perhaps in an emergency room situation, the federal government is saying that these emergency room doctors should 
 
 have the freedom and the power to decide if a woman is really critically ill. If an abortion might be necessary these doctors should have the 
 
 freedom to do that without being concerned about these state laws. So that's exactly what the issue is here that these doctors have really been 
 
 paralyzed by these state laws after Roe V. Wade was overturned.
 
HILL: Jessica Schneider appreciate it my friend thank you. Stay with us. We're back after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
HILL: A yellow orange haze is blanketing parts of Greece and Cyprus as dust clouds from Africa Sahara desert are sweeping north. In Athens the dream 
 
 likes scenes that you see here I have prompted comparisons to a Mars colony. That dust which NASA says is expected to continue crossing the 
 
 Mediterranean over the coming days also promising some health concerns Macedonia will continue to darken skies and reduce air quality.
 
In the UK four people are being treated in hospital after a number of horses broke free in central London. Footage posted to social media shows 
 
 two of those horses caught one covered in blood running toward traffic. The British Army says the horses were being taken for the routine morning 
 
 exercise when they escaped. 
 
At least one rider is among the injured. The horses that are part of the household cavalry unit have now been recovered. Well, that does it for me 
 
 at this moment "World Sport" is up next. I'll see you back here at the top of the hour.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END