Headline: The Source with Kaitlan Collins
Sub-headline: Soon: Biden, Harris To Greet Americans Freed From Russia; Harris & Top VP Choices Clear Schedules Ahead Of Announcement; Trump's Nephew Alleges Cruel, Racist Past In New Book. Aired 9-10p ET

Aired August 01, 2024 - 21:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[21:00:00] 
 
RENE MARSH, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: --well, I spoke with several of those individuals, in the piece there, following Donald Trump's comments, here at the NABJ, in Chicago, where I am.
 
And the consensus was that they just found those comments to be disrespectful, they say, particularly to Black women. They say those comments simply super-charged their efforts, to get Kamala Harris--
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Yes.
 
MARSH: --into the White House, Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: A force to be reckoned with, she said.
 
Rene Marsh, thanks so much.
 
"THE SOURCE WITH KAITLAN COLLINS" starts now.
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN HOST: Breaking news from THE SOURCE tonight.
 
Three Americans freed from Russia, in the biggest prisoner exchange since the Cold War, are about to touchdown on U.S. soil for the first time. As we await their arrival, we'll talk to someone, who knows firsthand what they've been through. Trevor Reed is here to join me.
 
Plus Vice President Harris is closing in on a running mate, as the contenders are clearing their calendars. The very latest on the veepstakes.
 
I'm Kaitlan Collins. And this is THE SOURCE.
 
Soon tonight, three Americans, who were wrongfully detained in Russia, for a collective of eight years, will touch down on U.S. soil for the first time since being released.
 
This is a live look, at the White House, this hour, where President Biden will soon depart, to go greet those now-former prisoners, at Joint Base Andrews, where they will be reunited with their families, who have been waiting for this day, for so long.
 
Vice President Harris will also be there. We'll take you live to the tarmac in just a moment, where that plane will soon touchdown. But among those that you'll see step off that plane. Wall Street Journal reporter, Evan Gershkovich, who has been held since March of 2023. Also Marine veteran, Paul Whelan, who has been held since December 2018. And Russian-American journalist, Alsu Kurmasheva, held since October of last year. All detained on sham charges by Putin.
 
Also released today was the American green card holder, and resident, Vladimir Kara-Murza -- Kara-Murza, who along with other Russian dissidents was also part of that release.
 
This was the largest prisoner swap that we have seen since the Cold War. And it took years of negotiations to happen. It also took seven countries, to get this over the line, with many, many calls and meetings happening, behind-the-scenes.
 
Officials that we heard from today said that they would only breathe a sigh of relief, really, once these Americans actually did touch the ground.
 
In total, 16 political prisoners, held by Russia, were freed today, in exchange for eight Russian criminals, held either here in the United States, or elsewhere, that Putin also wanted to get back.
 
That includes maybe the one that he wanted the most. Vadim Krasikov. He's an assassin, and Russian intelligence operative, who murdered somebody in broad daylight, in Germany. Putin literally rolled out the red carpet, when they made it back to Russia, earlier today.
 
Here at home, President Biden was surrounded by the families, of those freed Americans, celebrating at the White House.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Today is a powerful example of why it's vital to have friends in this world, friends you can trust, work with, and depend upon, especially on matters of great consequence and sensitivity like this.
 
Our alliances make our people safer.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: To show you how much what happened today meant to this White House, as they've been working on it. Look at what happened in the White House briefing today. A rare moment of emotion, from Biden's typically stoic National Security Adviser, Jake Sullivan.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Most of the time, as you can imagine, those are tough conversations. But not today. Today, excuse me -- today was a very good day. And we're going to build on it, drawing inspiration and continued courage from it, for all of those, who are held hostage, or wrongfully detained, around the world. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) COLLINS: There are only a handful of people, who truly understand what it's like, to be those Americans, flying home on that plane, right now. My source tonight is one of them. Trevor Reed, a Marine veteran, who was released in a prisoner swap in 2022.
 
And, Trevor, we've had a lot of conversations since your release. But obviously, this is a special one, tonight, given what we are about to witness.
 
And just as we're waiting on their arrival. I mean, you know what it's like. It wasn't that long ago. I was looking at the video today that we're showing now, when you were released in April 2022. This is the moment, when you were leaving Moscow.
 
When you touched down on U.S. soil, for the first time, what did it feel like?
 
TREVOR REED, FORMER U.S. MARINE FREED FROM RUSSIA IN 2022: I've talked about this before, a little bit.
 <br>[21:05:00]
 
But it seems very surreal. It's hard to understand that it's actually happening. And you want to believe that it's real. But it's just incredibly difficult, after spending so much time locked up, overseas.
 
COLLINS: Do you almost not feel that it's real until it actually happens? I mean, what was that like?
 
REED: I think it's probably different for everyone. But for me, even for a long time after that, I would still feel this kind of sensation that maybe it was just a dream, maybe I had imagined that, and I was going to wake up in a cell on a concrete floor. And thankfully, that didn't happen.
 
COLLINS: How long do you think it took you, after you got home, to stop feeling that way, to really, really feel that it was real, and that you were back?
 
REED: I think it took several months for it to fully set in, to where I didn't constantly second-guess that this was the new reality, and that I was finally home, and that I was finally free.
 
COLLINS: What happens on the plane ride back? I mean, can you sleep? Or can you talk to your family? Are you debriefed by U.S. officials? What does that look like?
 
REED: You know, you -- they immediately let me call my parents, and let them know that I was on the way home.
 
That conversation, I still really can't even remember having that. I remember that I called them. But what happened during that conversation just, I almost don't even remember what was said, because you're in just this state of shock, at that moment.
 
COLLINS: Yes. I mean, to hear their voices even, must be a strange feeling.
 
REED: Yes, it's very strange. And it takes a while to get over this kind of days that you're in, whenever you're coming back.
 
COLLINS: We do know, we heard from sources tonight that after they land, at Joint Base Andrews, that's right outside Washington, for those who don't know, in Maryland, we'll see them greet the President and the Vice President, their families as well. They'll have a private moment with them.
 
But then after that, they're going to be flown to San Antonio, to be at a medical facility, for an evaluation, for whatever care they need.
 
I mean, what does -- how hard is it to adjust to having your freedom back?
 
REED: It's more difficult than you might think. I remember, when I was in prison, I was told at some point that I would need to go through that process, when I came home. And I remember thinking, oh, that'd be easy, it's not going to -- that's not going to affect me.
 
But when you actually go through that, it's much more difficult than even you yourself can imagine it to be in that situation. So, it does take a while. And at San Antonio, there, at the army base, they're very effective at helping you to readjust.
 
COLLINS: Yes. I mean, just being able to sleep on your -- into your own pattern, to eat, I just can't even imagine.
 
And I was watching Jake Sullivan at the briefing earlier. And I've been watching the reaction pour in from Capitol Hill. And obviously, there will be questions, maybe some criticisms, of this swap, the idea of who was traded, for these Americans and the others, who were released.
 
And I just wonder, from your perspective, as someone, who was held unjustly, in a Russian prison, and was traded for a drug smuggler, as part of -- as part of your swap, what your perspective is, and what your take is, on comments like that?
 
REED: Well, I want to be clear that I don't think anyone wants to see hardened criminals, released from American prisons, especially if the victims of those crimes have been Americans, or the United States, in some way.
 
But I think it's important to remember that the first priority, of the United States, should be to get American citizens home. And I think that the Biden administration has shown that they've made that a priority.
 
I think another priority that the United States needs to have is that it needs to impose costs on countries, on governments, that force the United States into these situations. And I think only if you impose costs, are you going to see a reduction, in the number of Americans, who are wrongfully detained, by those governments. But first and foremost, it should be to get Americans home. And I think the argument that oh, well, you shouldn't have let these guys go, to get Americans back, is frankly, pretty ridiculous.
 <br>[21:10:00]
 
Every president that we have, in the United States, pardons dozens to hundreds of Americans, who have been convicted in U.S. courts. And they release them without the United States receiving anything in exchange. And to release a few Russian criminals, to get innocent Americans home, I think is absolutely worth it. And I think that's the American position, and the American, you know?
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
REED: That's what we do.
 
COLLINS: Do you have any advice, as weird as that sounds, for Evan, and for Paul, and for Alsu, and for Vladimir, all of these who are coming home?
 
REED: I would say to take it slow. It takes a while to adjust. And don't try to rush back into anything. Just take it as you go. Spend some time alone. It can be kind of stressful to just be reintroduced into regular life. So, just take it slow, and do things, as you see comfortable.
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
Trevor Reed, it's always great to talk to you, but especially on a night like tonight. Thank you.
 
REED: Thank you, Kaitlan.
 
COLLINS: I want to get more perspective now, as we are waiting for this plane to touchdown, outside of Washington, from Mikhail Zygar, who is an exiled Russian journalist.
 
And also Beth Sanner, CNN's National Security Analyst, and the former Deputy Director of National Intelligence.
 
And Beth, just to take a step back, and to look at how complex this deal was, and all of the complicated moves that had to happen to get to this moment. What stands out to you the most?
 
BETH SANNER, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: I think the number of countries involved, and the relationships and the trust that the United States has to have, with those countries, in order to get them to give up people that they've arrested.
 
And the other part of it, I think, is that the inclusion of Russian political activists, and dissidents, really makes this not just an exchange, about spy for innocent Americans, but it also is about values. And it is about that what we got back is we are rescuing these political activists, and dissidents, from basically no future, and no life. And I think that that is something that's symbolic and important.
 
COLLINS: Yes. There is a clear contrast, Mikhail, in the kinds of people, who are being swapped here. I mean, it's ordinary people, journalists, critics of the Kremlin, that are being freed from Russia.
 
But those going back to Russia that we saw being greeted, with that red carpet, earlier, spies, cyber criminals, assassins. I mean, that includes Vadim Krasikov that I just mentioned earlier.
 
On him, particular, on Krasikov, why did Putin want him back so badly?
 
MIKHAIL ZYGAR, RUSSIAN JOURNALIST: You know, and that's an amazing story, actually.
 
And obviously, they know each other, for many years. And Krasikov's story has been known, for a bit, because he's known to be some kind of Putin's personal assassin. And he has the track record of organizing some brutal murders, ordered by Vladimir Putin, back, like, decades back, decades ago.
 
And we saw today, the way how Putin was greeting him, saying something like hello, buddy, and hugging him. So yes, he was a person very precious to Vladimir Putin. And it's amazing that Putin wanted him so badly, and he agreed to set so many amazing Russian dissidents free.
 
COLLINS: Oh, and Beth, while we work on Mikhail's shot. Just speaking of who these people are. And for those, who don't know, I mean, he murdered someone in broad daylight, as I mentioned, in a park, in Berlin.
 
SANNER: Right.
 
COLLINS: Regular people were just milling about, when this happened, and he was caught before he could change out of his wig in time, in his disguise.
 
SANNER: Yes.
 
COLLINS: If you're a national security official, how do you view this, what we were just talking about with Trevor, weighing, getting these innocent American home -- innocent Americans home, but also the release of these criminals back to Russia.
 
SANNER: Yes, well, I think, for Putin, like the why -- why did Putin want these people? These are all intelligence officers or assets. Some of those officers are also happen to be assassins. That's their job in the FSB, right? So, these are bad guys.
 
But Putin is sending a message to his security services, and his intel services, that you can do, we want you to do these bad things, overseas, and we're going to protect you, and we're going to get you back.
 <br>[21:15:00]
 
And look, we just had this plot that was unfolded, and was uncovered to kill a CEO, of the most important German company that produces defense articles, for Ukraine, Rheinmetall. I mean, this stuff is going on today that they're plotting and doing these things.
 
And Putin's sending this message, I'm going to protect you. So keep at it, guys. I got your back.
 
COLLINS: Yes. I mean, you see how they have to weigh this, and what that looks like, from the Oval Office, and President Biden making these decisions.
 
SANNER: Certainly.
 
COLLINS: And the other -- I should note that Vice President Harris, she'll be there tonight with President Biden. She actually had that call with Alexei Navalny's widow, earlier today. He was supposed to be part of this swap. There were -- there were offers that were made, months ago, where he -- when he was still alive, before he was killed, that his name was part of this.
 
And I just wonder what it's like, if you're an official, who works on something, as sensitive and delicate as this.
 
SANNER: Yes.
 
COLLINS: The feeling of such celebration today, but also thinking there should be one more person on those planes.
 
SANNER: Well, and absolutely. I mean, we have left Americans behind in this deal. And so, and my heart goes out to Marc Fogel, and his family, and others, who are dual American citizens.
 
And there are 42, 46, something like that, Americans detained in other countries around the world. And so, there are teams of people, who work this, as their day jobs. And you can imagine the emotional toll that puts on them. But also, what overrides that is this incredible sense of purpose.
 
And this is what is wonderful about working for the intelligence service, or the military, is that you know why you go to work every day. It matters. And so, when something doesn't work out, you have to be, in these jobs, incredibly optimistic, and just kind of keep going, and knowing that you got to, you know, you got to fight another day.
 
COLLINS: Yes. It's so much to process in the background of all of this.
 
Beth Sanner. Mikhail Zygar, who we also had. Thank you both for joining us.
 
President Biden did call this a feat of diplomacy, earlier. You heard Beth talking about all the nations that were involved. We're going to be joined by a key senator, who knows, like few others, what it took behind-the-scenes, to make this all happen.
 
And later, we have brand-new reporting as Vice President Harris is getting closer to selecting her running mate. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[21:21:45]
 
COLLINS: In just moments, you are going to see the Americans, who were freed, today, as part of that massive prisoner exchange, touch down on U.S. soil for the first time.
 
Joining me now live, from where they are going to be arriving shortly, at Joint Base Andrews, is CNN's Senior White House Correspondent, MJ Lee.
 
And MJ, just where you are, tell us what we're going to see, on that tarmac behind you, once that plane does actually touchdown tonight.
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Kaitlan. What we are about to see, later tonight, of course, comes after months of painstaking negotiations that required the U.S. to convince a number of other countries, to release Russian nationals, in their custody.
 
We saw the President talking about sort of the gravity of this moment, and the significance of this deal coming together.
 
We know now that President Biden and Vice President Harris played big roles, in privately putting pressure on German Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, to release a man, named Vadim Krasikov. This is the Russian assassin that we have been talking about, all day, who had been detained in Germany.
 
And we know that when Scholz finally told President Biden that he was going to get to a yes on this, he said, quote, "For you, I will do this."
 
Another key country, of course, is Slovenia, who also had some key Russian nationals, in their custody. And we now know that President Biden, on the day that he announced that he was going to be dropping out of the 2024 race, actually, moments before that public announcement, placed an important phone call, to the Prime Minister of Slovenia, to push them and urge them on those two Russian nationals that are -- that were released as a part of this deal.
 
Which means, Kaitlan, remarkably, on the day that the President announced that he was going to be dropping out, he knew that it was very likely that this huge prisoner swap was going to be probably cemented into his one-term legacy.
 
Now, where we are, right now, of course, is JBA. And behind us, on the tarmac, is where the plane is going to land, carrying those three Americans. When they get off the plane, President Biden, Vice President Harris, and of course, most importantly, their families are going to be waiting for them.
 
And while the first thing that they're really going to do is spend a little time, with their families, that have been waiting for their release, for so long. Their next stop, tonight, is going to be at San Antonio, where they are going to be taken to a medical center, so that they can be properly examined. And we're told, take all the time that they will possibly need, to get the care that they need.
 
Of course, all of this is a reminder of all of the things that these three Americans had been through, as they had been in detention, in Russia, and hoping that they would get out.
 
But again, right behind us on this tarmac, is where we expect to see, in just two hours or so, history unfolding, and a joyous reunion of three Americans, and their families, Kaitlan.
 
COLLINS: Yes. And we'll bring that moment live to, when it does happen.
 
MJ Lee on the tarmac at Joint Base Andrews. Thank you for that.
 
COLLINS: My next guest, here tonight, is a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Democratic senator, Chris Murphy, of Connecticut.
 
And Senator, it's great to have you here.
 
Because you've dealt with this scenario before. One of your constituents was once held in Iran. And so, for you, what's it going to be like, to see those Americans, touching down on U.S. soil?
 <br>[21:25:00]
 
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): I mean, this is an extraordinary night, the biggest prisoner exchange since the Cold War, a complex multi-country agreement, really only possible with Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, in charge of this country, right?
 
Joe Biden and Kamala Harris decided that they were going to rebuild our alliances, with the world, with Europe in particular. When you have friends, when you have allies, you can pull off extraordinary, life-saving agreements like this.
 
I was just texting with the Vice President's team, as they were making their way to Andrews. This is a night, primarily for celebration, by these families.
 
I mean, you're right, Kaitlan. I had a constituent, from Connecticut, who was held, for years, in Iran. And I watched as the Biden administration refused to take no for an answer. They were creative. They were relentless. And eventually, my constituent was released.
 
As with all of these deals, you have to give the country, who's holding the American, something in return. But Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, both made it absolutely clear, from the beginning of this administration, they are not going to leave any single American behind.
 
COLLINS: Yes. MURPHY: And there's a lot of grateful families in this country for that.
 
COLLINS: What did the Vice President's team have to say? I mean, they must be pretty excited for this part of the job.
 
MURPHY: Yes. I mean, this is an extraordinary moment, where you see the power of diplomacy. There are a lot of diplomacy-haters, in Washington. There is a military complex that thinks every problem can be solved by war. And so, these are moments, when you show that by having capable diplomats, not just capable generals, you can change the world.
 
I think there's also a sense of celebration, tonight, not just for the Americans that are being released. But for the seven Russian dissidents. It is true, that Alexei Navalny should have been part of this release. But some of the Russians, who are being freed today are Navalny's lieutenants. And so, in one fell swoop, tonight, not only are you rescuing and saving American lives, you are also breathing life back into the Russian pro-democracy movement.
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
MURPHY: And so, yes, Putin gets something out of this because he desperately wanted his assassin freed. But he's now got some leaders, back as part of the opposition. That's, in the long run, incredibly--
 
COLLINS: Well--
 
MURPHY: --important, for our goal to make sure that there's some domestic opposition to Putin.
 
COLLINS: And that assassin is Vadim Krasikov that we've been talking about. And he clearly wanted him so badly, back tonight, that he was willing to make this deal.
 
But do you share the concerns that we also were hearing that, that a release, like this, does reward his strategy, of using innocent people, as bargaining chips with the West?
 
MURPHY: So, there's no way that you pull off a deal, this big, and this extraordinary, unless you give your adversary something that they want. But again, this is a two-for-one agreement. We're getting twice as many people out, as we are releasing. And I would feel worse about the release of Krasikov, if we weren't sending back into the fight, seven pro-democracy anti-Putin leaders.
 
Remember, Donald Trump, every previous president, did these deals. There was one deal that Donald Trump did, in which he got two Americans released, in exchange for 250 Houthi fighters, held in the Yemen conflict. So, in this situation, yes, you certainly shed tears that some very bad guys are getting off the hook. But the two-to-one ratio?
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
MURPHY: And the Russian political dissidents being released? That's a pretty good deal--
 
COLLINS: Well--
 
MURPHY: --for U.S. national security.
 
COLLINS: I'm glad you brought up Trump, because his running mate, J.D. Vance, commented on this deal today.
 
Listen to what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), 2024 VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have to ask ourselves, why are they coming home? And I think it's because bad guys, all over the world, recognize Donald Trump's about to be back in office, so they're cleaning house. That's a good thing. And I think it's a testament to Donald Trump's strength.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: Is that how you see it?
 
MURPHY: I mean, listen, since Kamala Harris was named the presumptive nominee, they've been flailing. I mean, I have no idea what J.D. is talking about.
 
As I mentioned, Donald Trump consistently did these exact kind of deals. And had he been in a position to have to negotiate, for the release of these Americans, he would have had no allies to lean on. The reason we got this deal done is because we had friends. Donald Trump couldn't have asked the German Chancellor, to release Krasikov. The phone would have been hung up, before he even got the question out.
 
The only leverage that Donald Trump would have, if he gets elected, is giving away Ukraine. Putin probably will be in a position to do some favors for Donald Trump, because Putin will ask, in return, for America to abandon Ukraine, and Ukraine to be handed over to Russia, which would be cataclysmic for U.S. national security.
 
So, it's just not true that Trump was any better negotiator. And it is true, that there's no way Donald Trump, or J.D. Vance, could have pulled off this agreement, because our allies will not pick up the phone, when Donald Trump, or J.D. Vance, calls.
 
COLLINS: Senator Chris Murphy, thank you, for joining tonight.
 
MURPHY: Thank you.
 <br>[21:30:00]
 
COLLINS: And we're continuing to monitor these live pictures, from Joint Base Andrews. That is where, typically, you see Air Force One land. Tonight, it is going to be a different kind of welcoming home, for those Americans. President Biden, and Donald Trump, in the meantime, have been trading jabs over what happened. We'll tell you what Donald Trump is saying. We heard from his running mate. On this prisoner deal.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COLLINS: Former President Donald Trump has boasted, many times, that his relationship with Vladimir Putin would be key, to the Kremlin releasing any detained Americans.
 
But after today's historic release, here's what President Biden had to say, about those claims.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: President Trump has said repeatedly that he could have gotten the hostages out without giving anything in exchange. What do you say to that? What do you say to President Trump now -- former President Trump?
 
BIDEN: Why didn't he do it when he was president?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: Meanwhile, Donald Trump questioned the terms of this exchange today.
 <br>[21:35:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I heard that. I heard he said that - 'why didn't Trump get him out?' - and he was taken during that time. You know, I got out 59 different people - 59 - and I didn't pay money. I didn't pay money.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: I should note. The Trump White House said it was 56 people, who were released.
 
And during a briefing, with reporters, today, President Biden's National Security Adviser, Jake Sullivan, confirmed no money was exchanged, no sanctions were lifted, to facilitate today's deal.
 
I want to talk to someone, who has a deep knowledge, of what happens, behind-the-scenes, to bring home detained Americans. Ambassador John Bolton was Donald Trump's National Security Adviser, and joins me now.
 
Ambassador, Trump did say repeatedly that he did not think Putin would release Evan Gershkovich, to anyone else that that was going to happen if he won, and when he took office again.
 
What does it say tonight that he did?
 
JOHN BOLTON, FORMER TRUMP NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Well, what Trump says is typically unprovable. It's always that he will do a better job, and that may or may not have proven out.
 
I think we're all happy for the people released from Russian jails.
 
But let's be clear. This was a bad deal. It sets a bad precedent. It violates a rule, too often violated, that we don't swap for innocent American hostages. It's going to lay the groundwork for more Americans, being used as bargaining chips.
 
And it's happy for the individuals and their families, of course. But this is bad for the country.
 
COLLINS: You've not -- you've long held that belief. I think -- I know that. I think it's important for people to know that.
 
But when you hear from Trevor Reed earlier, or you're the person in the Oval Office, making this decision, or these families, who are waiting at Joint Base Andrews, right now, how do you make that argument to them, who are just worried, about getting their loved ones back home?
 
BOLTON: Well, it's very hard and close to impossible.
 
I saw Jake Sullivan, today, saying that the conversations he had, with hostage families were often very tough. And I would certainly agree with that. They were the toughest conversations I had, when I served in that position.
 
But the humanitarian logic here has to look forward as well as looking at the particular event, we're discussing now. And looking forward, think the next time you see in a newspaper, a paragraph that says that Russia has arrested some American, for possession of a small amount of marijuana, or China, or some other authoritarian country, or someone's taken by a terrorist group. You'll say that's too bad and move on.
 
But that's where -- that's where the real humanitarian concern should be. How to minimize, how to eventually end any incentive, for these rogue states and terrorist groups, to take Americans hostage. That's a hard logic. But it has a bigger humanitarian payoff.
 
COLLINS: You said, this deal sets a bad precedent. Do you think the deals that Donald Trump made as well, in prisoner exchanges, when he was in office, also set a bad precedent, in your view?
 
BOLTON: Well, I know CNN has done a fact-check on Trump. And I looked at the article. Three of the particular exchanges occurred after I left the White House. I really don't have any information, whether in fact, they were hostage-for-hostage swaps. The one that did occur, when I was in the White House, you had factually wrong, as did The Washington Post, when they reported it contemporaneously.
 
Look, this principle of not dealing for hostages, goes back to Richard Nixon. It's a long-standing rule. It's often violated. That's true. To our detriment, every time we do it, ask Ronald Reagan when he violated it, in the Iran-Contra Affair.
 
COLLINS: Yes. I mean, we just -- we saw Trump do it with North Korea, with Iran, with the Taliban. You just heard Chris Murphy there, talking about the Houthis. We just have seen it before, I think, is the counter-point. But it is a real argument.
 
I'm curious what you think of why Putin did this now. And what does it say to you, if anything, about how he's looking ahead, to the U.S. election, by striking this agreement now?
 
BOLTON: Well, I don't -- I don't think it's necessarily connected to the election. I don't even think it's connected to the Democratic Convention, coming up, in three weeks.
 
I think Putin wanted Krasikov back. He wanted Viktor Bout back, and he got him. And he got a number of other Russian agents back too. I think that's the factor that's most important to him. And if he thought he could do it with a good enough deal, when it came up, he took it.
 
I've heard all this commentary, about how these seven Russian dissidents are being released. There's another way to look at that. They're being exiled. This was the practice of the czars. You want to get rid of your opponents? Send them away from the country.
 <br>[21:40:00]
 
They're may be free in Western Europe, which is certainly being -- better than being in a Russian jail. They're exiled from their families. They're exiled from their friends. And, by the way, their friends and families are now hostages of Putin's government. And they've been told by now, will be soon, your relative better behave, or you'll pay for it.
 
So, I think Putin has gotten the spring cleaning of Russian jails. We don't know exactly the full value of the Russians being returned. But it's a totally unfair, and really, immoral swap of innocent Americans, for Russian criminals.
 
COLLINS: Ambassador John Bolton, thank you for joining tonight.
 
BOLTON: Thank you.
 
COLLINS: Coming up, as we are getting closer to Vice President Harris, on the campaign trail, for a moment, announcing her running mate, we have new reporting, about who is clearing their schedule, and why.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[21:45:03]
 
COLLINS: Vice President Kamala Harris has cleared her schedule, for tomorrow, with no public events, as she is getting closer to naming her running mate. And her top contenders appear to have done the same, tonight.
 
Governor Josh Shapiro canceled fundraising events that he had planned, this weekend.
 
Governor Andy Beshear scratched his stop at a distillery, tomorrow, according to local media.
 
Nothing that we can see on Senator Mark Kelly's schedule.
 
Secretary Pete Buttigieg changed his tomorrow, and actually cut it short from one event.
 
And Governor J.B. Pritzker said this, about his weekend.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. J.B. PRITZKER (D-IL): Lollapalooza is happening this weekend, here in Chicago. And my kids, and I mean, tens of thousands of others are -- are going to be there. You know, I've heard other governors talk about how they've canceled their weekend plans.
 
I was going to perform, of course, with blink-182, on Sunday.
 
ARI MELBER, MSNBC CHIEF LEGAL CORRESPONDENT, HOST, "THE BEAT WITH ARI MELBER," MSNBC: Oh, great.
 
PRITZKER: But I've canceled in order to clear my schedule.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: Maybe a low-key weekend may not be the worst thing, because for potentially one of those people, that we had listed, it might be the last one for a long time.
 
I am joined now, by two top political minds. Kate Bedingfield and Kevin Madden.
 
Kate, I'm convinced that that they're just messing with us, and that everyone's clearing their schedule. I mean, would they be this obvious, if that is actually what was happening here?
 
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, I think the fact that everybody cleared their schedule, and a lot of these people, we know, are in the vet process. And we've even seen some leaked confirmations that some of these folks have had meetings with the vet team. So, I don't think we should imagine that there's going to be like a Bachelor-style rose ceremony here.
 
But I do think that there is, you know, you got to remember, the vet process is usually a months-long process, has been condensed into a very tight timeframe here. And so, these conversations are happening. And I suspect that some of these scheduled cancelations are a result of that.
 
Now, whether others who know that they are -- or who've been floated, and are in the discussion here, are canceling their schedule, just to look like they're in contention. That's always possible, too.
 
But I imagine that there are some serious conversations going on, because the VP is coming up against her August 7th deadline here.
 
COLLINS: Well, and Kevin, this process looks a little bit different. We heard that Governor Pritzker, who we just heard from, who will not be at Lollapalooza, that two of his vetting interviews, that he had, were held virtually.
 
And this is a really truncated process. Normally, there would be so much time, for these meetings, for these interviews. This is all happening on a really fast basis.
 
KEVIN MADDEN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes, they probably had to really crystallize the conversations.
 
By the way, I loved the Lollapalooza reference. I mean, as a Gen Xer, it's good to see that we have a Lollapalooza reference.
 
But yes, and I think back to the process that I worked most closely on, in 2012, when Governor Romney was going through his vetting process, we started that process with the vetting of numerous candidates, probably close to a dozen, even up to 15. That started probably back in April or May, and before we even made a decision in August.
 
So, you're really packing a lot of work into just a few weeks here. And so, I'd expect that's why you're seeing Kamala Harris -- Vice President Harris, clear her schedule, because she has to spend a lot of time, doing last-minute conversations, to really have these in- depth conversations, with the candidates that might be chosen, before she makes that decision. 
 
But there's also a lot of diversions here going on. I mean, one of the things that the Harris campaign is probably smart at here, is building up as much anticipation. That way, people will start signing up for text messages. They start signing up for emails. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
MADDEN: You get to grow that list of volunteers. Build up that anticipation so that, again, continue that momentum and the excitement towards a very big decision.
 
COLLINS: Yes, it's definitely built it up for a lot of reporters, too, who are going to be just scrolling Twitter, all weekend.
 
But Kate, on this campaign in itself, as we've seen these contenders go out, and try out on cable news in real-time. I mean, it's been fascinating to watch how they've had these try-outs, just on -- in TV interviews. They've been calling J.D. Vance and Donald Trump, weird. That has been a recurring theme.
 
Trump actually responded to that, earlier, during a radio interview. Listen to what he said about this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Nobody's ever called me weird. I'm a lot of things, but weird I'm not. And I'm upfront. And he's not either, I will tell you, J.D. is not at all. They are. It's all a soundbite, and the press picks it up. You notice the evening news, every one of them is talking, you know, they introduced the word weird, and all of a sudden, they're talking about weird. No, we're not weird people. We're -- we're actually just the opposite.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: I'm sure J.D. Vance is glad to have Trump say he's not weird.
 
But, I mean, it's kind of feels like you're-rubber-I'm-glue kind of game that we're seeing played right now.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Well, in some ways, he's kind of underscoring how the -- how this is working, that it's effective. I mean, he points out, it's getting coverage. It's driving the conversation.
 <br>[21:50:00]
 
I think one of the things that's been really great, for the Democratic Party, since Kamala Harris went to the top of the ticket, is this resurgence in enthusiasm. And seeing all of these great potential VP candidates, governors and others, out, over the last week, really, making the case, in a largely kind of joyful and enthusiastic way, I think, has just been -- has been very good, for Democrats, who've been looking for that enthusiasm.
 
So, in some ways, what Donald Trump is saying there is actually that this is working quite effectively.
 
So, I imagine that this will continue to be a piece of--
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
BEDINGFIELD: --of how Vice President Harris, and the Harris campaign, continue to frame Trump, as we move forward.
 
COLLINS: Yes. I'd love to see how many times the word has been used, if we'll see it on any campaign slogans.
 
But Kevin, speaking of enthusiasm. The Trump campaign had a really good number, today. They raised $139 million in July. That's $27 million more than what they raised in June. And they say they've raised $327 million. That's what they have cash on hand. Obviously, we have to wait to see the filings, when they come out.
 
But I wonder what you make of, of that, as they've had, you know, they had the convention, but then you have dealt with these few weeks of a lot of back-and-forth, wondering who is going to be on the Dem ticket.
 
MADDEN: Well, I think a lot of that was sort of carried over, from the last month, where Joe Biden had a terrible month, and Trump had a good month. The enthusiasm and the response of support that Trump got, from his base, particularly after the assassination attempt. So, you're seeing those -- that's -- that support sort of roll in.
 
The key thing is they're going to need it. This is going to be a very, very close campaign, from here, all the way to Election Day. The resources that you're going to need, at a grassroots level, the resource you're going to need to sort of draw that contrast, in these key battleground states. Those dollars are going to be -- are going to be -- are definitely going to need to be spent.
 
COLLINS: Yes, lot of dollars, lot of people calling people weird, and a lot of responses to that.
 
Kevin Madden. Kate Bedingfield. Neither of you are weird. And both of you have -- both have very busy weekends.
 
MADDEN: Appreciate that.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Thank you. Thank you.
 
COLLINS: Joining us next, here on THE SOURCE, a Trump who has endorsed Vice President Harris actually, in this campaign. It is Donald Trump's nephew, Fred Trump, who says he'd stayed quiet for a very long time, about his uncle, but he's not doing so anymore.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[21:56:28]
 
COLLINS: Tonight, former President Donald Trump is doubling down on his audacious lie, publicly questioning Vice President Kamala Harris' racial identity.
 
This time, by sharing a family photo of Harris, when she was a young girl, writing sarcastically, "Thank you Kamala for the nice picture you sent from many years ago! Your warmth, friendship, and love of your Indian Heritage are very much appreciated."
 
Speaking of family matters, all of this is coming as Trump's own nephew has now released a new book, that paints him in a harsh light, accusing him of making racist and cruel comments.
 
That book is "All in the Family." And it's written by Donald Trump's nephew, Fred Trump, who joins me now.
 
And thank you for being here.
 
FRED TRUMP III, DONALD TRUMP'S NEPHEW: My pleasure, Kaitlan. Thank you.
 
COLLINS: Just on the what we've been watching happen, since yesterday, when Trump spoke at that conference, your uncle now finds himself running against a Black woman.
 
TRUMP III: Yes.
 
COLLINS: And I've heard from many people that I know, my sources, about their concern, that it's going to bring out his worst impulses.
 
And I thought about the passage, in your book, where you write that when you were 10-years-old, you heard him use the N-word. And I just wonder what you think this election looks like, now that he is running against someone, who looks like Kamala Harris?
 
TRUMP III: Right. Well just to finish off that story, that not only was it troubling, to hear him use the N-word twice. He did not know, who actually slashed the roof of his car. He just assumed that it were Black people.
 
Regarding the situation from yesterday. I have been involved in politics, and in -- a political junkie for years. I just don't get what he's trying to get out of this situation. And he does, exactly what you said, he doubles down. It is impossible for him to say, hey, you know what? I shouldn't have gone there. And he's going to go there. And he's going to go hard.
 
COLLINS: Why do you think that is?
 
TRUMP III: It's, he cannot lose. And he cannot admit mistakes. And you're seeing it with this example, and so many others.
 
COLLINS: Your book is deeply personal. And you said that you've thought about writing it for a while now. When -- Trump's been in public life forever.
 
TRUMP III: Right.
 
COLLINS: But as a politician, since he came down that escalator in 2015.
 
What spurred you to write this now, three months out from the election?
 
TRUMP III: Well, the agenda -- it was meant to honor my father, who was a very caring and charismatic guy. And my son, William, who has complex disabilities, but who is the most courageous and inspirational person I know.
 
And to tell the story of them, I found that I needed to tell the story of the Trump family, through the eyes of someone, who's been around that family, for many years, and again, knowing Donald, from his formative years on. So, it's a different book than anyone else's.
 
COLLINS: And you've known him for so long.
 
Your cousin, Eric Trump.
 
TRUMP III: Right.
 
COLLINS: Had a lengthy response to this. I do want to read it.
 
He said that "It's disappointing that after decades of unwavering love, support, golf memberships, family vacations and millions of dollars in support" of "his wonderful son, Fred Trump has decided to 'cash in' less than a 100 days before an election."
 
He says that he personally "signed the checks and witnessed first- hand" as his father provided "endless financial support" so that your son could get the "best possible medical care." He said, "To read this garbage and see" how "he has now followed his troubled sister simply earn a quick buck is disgusting," and "disheartening."
 
What's your response to that?
 <br>[22:00:00]
 
TRUMP III: I guess, my first response is Eric, and my other cousin, Donnie (ph), are the only people in the family that have ever met William. Ever. The response is totally expected. We've seen this play out before.
 
I just suggest to your viewers that they read the book and find out really what the truth is. I guarantee, anyone, in the Trump orbit, has not read the book.
 
COLLINS: Fred Trump, thank you for joining.
 
TRUMP III: My pleasure.
 
COLLINS: The book is "All in the Family."
 
TRUMP III: Thanks.
 
COLLINS: And thank you so much for joining us.
 
"CNN NEWSNIGHT" starts now.