Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Trump Picks Face Next Test in Confirmation Battle; Major Storms to Hit the U.S. Thanksgiving Week; Menendez Brothers to Appear for Status Hearing. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired November 25, 2024 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:00]
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Donald Trump now has all his cabinet picks filled out and now the real work begins. New reporting today on how the Trump team is preparing for the contentious confirmation battles ahead.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN ANCHOR:  And for the first time in 28 years, Eric and Lyle Menendez will appear in court today decades after they were sentenced to life in prison for murdering their parents. But could they have a chance at being released?
 
And it's set to be a record-breaking week for holiday travel. I know you've probably heard that before. But some major winter storms could actually have a big impact on those Thanksgiving travel plans.
 
I'm Omar Jimenez with Kate Baldwin. John and Sara are out. This is CNN News Central.
 
BOLDUAN:  So today, at least two of President-elect Donald Trump's cabinet picks are facing some serious questions, serious concerns, and potentially serious roadblocks on their path for getting confirmed by the Senate. And we're clearly not even talking about Matt Gaetz anymore. Donald Trump announced ten more top level administration picks over the weekend, so if you blinked, you may have missed one.
 
With his cabinet now filled out, the focus now shifts to the real work ahead and how to get all of them over the finish line as the Senate looks to a busy January of confirmation hearings. That process typically includes FBI background checks for basically all of them. But the Trump team has yet to file the necessary paperwork for the FBI to begin conducting those checks.
 
Skipping them all together may be the newest Trump strategy and the latest example of how Trump has, always, and will continue to bust through as many norms as he pleases in the next term.
 
CNN's Alayna Treene starts us off this morning. Alayna, what are you hearing from the Trump transition team on how they are now preparing for confirmation now that all of these administration level -- top administration picks have been announced?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  Right. Well, we still have a couple left, Kate. We have about four left in the cabinet, but really he has filled out all of the most important cabinets in the core cabinet and moved at a very quick pace to do that, which is three weeks since Election Day. But you're right. I mean, right now, the focus is really shifting from his announcing his picks and filling out who he wants to serve in these top roles to how he is going to get them through the confirmation process.
 
I know from my conversations with those working with the transition that they have been doing a lot of work behind the scenes. For some of these people, they had already recognized some of these concerns beforehand. That includes someone like RFK Jr. They know that as a former Democrat and someone who is now going to be in a top health role, if he can get confirmed.
 
A lot of senators are worried about, you know, his past comments on supporting abortion access and trying to get some of those staunchly conservative people in the Senate to feel -- get assurance by some of what they're trying to do.
 
So, we're hearing them reach out. I know a lot of people on Trump's team are reaching out to people on the Hill. They're going to be setting up meetings one-on-one with some of these different candidates to have them meet them behind closed doors before we start to really see these confirmation hearings play out in public.
 
Now, two very controversial picks that they recognize they could have some issues with are Pete Hegseth, his pick to lead the Department of Defense, but also Tulsi Gabbard. And I want to focus on Gabbard here because her comments about, you know, her skepticism around surveillance and also really her deep distrust of a lot of the agencies that she is going to be overseeing is something we have heard many people in the Senate start to raise alarm bells on. I want you to take a listen to what we heard some senators say yesterday on this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. TAMMY DUCKWORTH (D-IL):  She is, in terms of the intelligence community, very unqualified, plus she is potentially compromised and could be and has -- is there questions about whether or not she is now a Russian asset?
 
SEN. JAMES LANKFORD (R-OK):  Well, we'll have lots of questions. She met with Bashar Assad. We'll want to know what the purpose was and what the direction for that was, as a member of Congress. We'll want to get a chance to talk about past comments that she's made and get them into full context. So, sure, there's comments that are floating out there, but we want to be able to know the rest of the story.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE:  So, Kate, as you heard there Senator Tammy Duckworth, she is a Democrat in the Senate, but then Lankford, a Republican and someone who is new to leadership, also saying that he has some serious questions that he wants to ask Gabbard.
 
Now, through all of this, I will say that when -- you know, just to get into Trump's mindset a bit here, he chose a lot of these different people, recognizing they were controversial, but also that was part of the reason that he picked them.
 <br>[07:05:08]
 
He wants to have different what they're calling disruptors in these different agencies in these top roles to really, as you put it, buck the norm here and really break from tradition.
 
And so he is very committed, and so is the transition team, to making sure they have a smooth process. I think the work that they will be doing between now and inauguration day, making sure these people are walking through the Senate, meeting with the people they need to shore up support with, it's going to be one of the key priorities throughout the rest of his transition. Kate?
 
BOLDUAN:  It's good to see you, Alayna. Thank you so much. Omar?
 
JIMENEZ:  And new this morning, 80 million people are expected to travel this holiday week, but major storms could threaten travel plans and dampen those Thanksgiving celebrations.
 
Derek Van Dam is tracking these storms for us. All right, so, Derek, I mean, what is this going to impact most?
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes. Well, Omar, whether you're hitting the airways or the roadways, if this map doesn't give you an indication of what's to come this week, I don't know what is or what will. You better pack your patience, not only for the dinner table for Thanksgiving plans with family and friends, but also if you are going to be one of those 80 million Americans traveling this week because we have one storm lining up after another, the big one really indicating and kind of culminating really on Thursday and Friday, some of the busier travel days of this week.
 
Here's a look at this forecast accumulation and we have, well, a lot of lake effect snow in the forecast for the downwind areas of Lake Ontario, Lake Superior, Lake Michigan as well, but another storm system impacting the intermountain west.
 
First, let's talk today. Here's a look at your airport delays. No problems along the East Coast, but notice Detroit, Chicago, Minneapolis, minor weather related delays that could stretch southward into New Orleans as weak cold front presses through. And then along the west coast, the state of California, L.A. to San Francisco, that's where we have at least moderate delays at the airports being reported. And it's all thanks to a storm system that is entering the equation going forward. And a lot of that energy will move eastward. I'll show you that in just one second.
 
But follow this today. This is the storm that will bring some rainfall early Tuesday morning. If you're hitting the roads along the I-95 corridor, be aware, but this storm is really going to pack a punch as we head into Thursday. Look how this strengthens and deepens, and then just in time for the Macy's Day, Thanksgiving Day parade in New York City. It looks to be a rather wet and breezy and blustery one as well. But you can see the snowfall for Northern New England that will impact places like Buffalo, Albany, into Killington, the Burlington area as well as northern sections of Maine. Omar?
 
JIMENEZ:  Yes. And for those of us who might be covering the Thanksgiving Macy's a parade, yes, nothing to worry about there when it comes to rain or anything like that.
 
But I know it's not just the storms too. I mean, the temperatures are taking a pretty big dip too. I mean, what are you seeing there?
 
VAN DAM:  No, it's going to drop like a rock. Actually, it's because of this cold front moving eastward. So, watch this. We are going to enjoy a couple of more days of above average temperatures. But notice the oranges and reds get quickly replaced by the shades of blue and purple below average temperatures. That's the story going forward from tomorrow into the second half of this week, and many locations will not be spared from this. Look at these daytime highs in Chicago, well below average, and, of course, the windy city living up to its name. It will be breezy. So, the wind chill values will be even colder than that. New York City on Thanksgiving Day, look at that 47 and rain, that's just cool and damp. And then Atlanta, wow, you're not spared from this cool weather as well, temperatures in the upper 40s.
 
So we're running 15 to 20 degrees below where we should be this time of year. So, plan accordingly for your forecast and your Thanksgiving Day travel plans because it will be a messy one and a cold one come the second half of the week. Omar?
 
JIMENEZ:  Two of my favorite things, cold and rain. Derek Van Dam, I appreciate it.
 
BOLDUAN:  Those can be like messy and cold, those are two of your favorite things.
 
Coming up for us, convicted of murdering their parents in 1989, the Menendez brothers today are set to make their first court appearance in decades. Could this be the first step on their road to freedom now?
 
President elect Donald Trump has threatened to ban transgender athletes from competition. It's an issue even some Democrats are struggling with. A transgender athlete is speaking out now and responding to anti-transgender backlash today.
 
And before he leaves office, President Biden is taking part in two, we'll call them major pardons. Sure, Peach and Blossom, two turkeys set to be given reprieve today at the annual White House Thanksgiving tradition.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:10:00]
 
JIMENEZ:  For the first time in nearly 30 years, the Menendez brothers are set to make a public court appearance. Eric and Lyle Menendez are due in court today for a status hearing as their attorneys ask the court to consider new evidence that they were sexually abused and argue that they're both rehabilitated.
 
Now, the brothers are serving life without parole for the 1989 murders of their parents.
 
Joining me now is CNN's Gene Casarez. So Gene, I mean, I guess people hear this, you know, it's a status hearing. What could actually come from this hearing?
 
GENE CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, normally a status hearing is just, where are we?
 
JIMENEZ:  Yes.
 
CASAREZ:  Where are we going? Where are we now? What do we need to do? Saying that, in a hearing, anything can happen. So, they are going to appear virtually, which I think is one of the most important things of this.
 
And Mark Geragos, the defense attorney, says that the judge of the last minute could order them to be in court, but at this point it will be virtual.
 <br>[07:15:05]
 
But the whole issue here, right, is they're resentencing, or the fact should be let out. And, you know, the back story to this, and some of the facts involved in this, is that Eric Menendez is now 54 years old, Lyle is 56 years old, they have served 34 years in prison at this point.
 
This all happened August 20th of 1989, when there was a premeditated murder of their parents, and no one doubts that. It was extremely premeditated. But the district attorney is saying that there are credible allegations, those are his words, credible allegations, of sexual and physical abuse of both of the men.
 
Eric would have begun when he was six years old going into his adolescence, and Lyle Menendez, sexual abuse allegations are that they began when he was younger and ended when he was eight years old.
 
But the focus here that really the D.A. is going for is rehabilitation, because there is a statute in California that allows leniency even if it's life without the possibility parole.
 
So, let's look at where the D.A. says they have been rehabilitated. First of all, when you look at Lyle Menendez, he has gotten his associates -- his bachelor's degree from the U. C. Irvine, University of California, Irvine. He created programs within the prison. These are just a few of them. Rehabilitation through beautification, adverse childhood experience and rehabilitation, youth life without parole ally.
 
Now, Eric Menendez got his associate degree. He's also gotten a certificate in sign language, according to the legal documents, to help others in prison who have hearing difficulties or are deaf. His programs that he's says he has instituted himself the life care and hospice connection program, victim impact and victim empathy for vulnerable populations and the 12-step program.
 
So, this is really what the D. A. is relying upon this. Rehabilitation should allow them to get out.
 
JIMENEZ:  All right. Well, we will see. It's been a long time coming. We'll see what actually comes from this status hearing.
 
Gene Casarez, I really appreciate it.
 
CASAREZ:  Thank you.
 
JIMENEZ:  All right. Meanwhile, it's not a stock, it's not a number of projection or data, but we're going to tell you the news that has investors and CEOs happy and optimistic to start the week.
 
And at least three people incredibly rescued alive after a cargo plane crashes near an airport. We're going to have the latest on the investigation.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:20:00]
 
BOLDUAN:  New this morning, one of the slew of cabinet announcement that President-elect Donald Trump made over the weekend, tapping billionaire hedge fund manager Scott Bassent to lead the Treasury Department. He's seen as something of a safer choice among the Trump cabinet. And CNN has new reporting that business leaders are breathing a sigh of relief this morning.
 
CNN's Matt Egan has this for us. He's joining us now. What are you hearing, Matt?
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER:  Well, Kate, the sense of relief in the business community this morning is palpable because this is just such a crucial job. And Trump ended up going with a safe pick, someone who's going to command respect from markets. He did not go with a radical extremist, a bomb thrower for this job, and that is a huge relief.
 
And, listen, this hire of Scott Besson is already winning some early positive reviews. Yale Professor Jeff Sonnenfeld told me that there is huge relief in Corporate America. Jamie Dimon is a fan too, a person close to. The JPMorgan CEO told me that Dimon thinks very highly of Bessent, and he believes this is an excellent choice.
 
A manufacturing CEO, Jay Timmons, who's been critical of Trump in the past, described this as an outstanding choice. And even Anthony Scaramucci, who fiercely opposed the reelection of Trump, called Bessent a great guy in a safe and stable pair of hands. It's worth noting market is reacting. We see U.S. Stock Futures moving significantly higher this morning, and it does seem as though at least part of that rally this morning is driven by this higher.
 
Just a little bit more about Scott Bessent and his resume. He does have some of the qualities you would want in a treasury secretary. He's got deep experience in markets. He's a hedge fund manager. He's actually worked with some of the most famous investors in the world, including Stanley Druckenmiller and George Soros, who, of course, is looked at as a boogeyman on the right.
 
BOLDUAN:  I mean, yes, that sticks out now that he's being appointed by Trump.
 
EGAN:  It does. And I think the hope here, Kate, is that Bessent will moderate Trump's campaign promises, especially on tariffs. Sonnenfeld told me that Bessent, he likes the idea of using tariffs surgically, as kind of a bargaining tool, but not necessarily blanket tariffs like Trump has talked about. And Sonnenfeld told me that Bessent knows that tariffs help make the great depression worse with the 1930 Smoot- Hawley Tariffs. And he said that Bessent doesn't want a second Smoot- Hawley. So, that's a relief.
 
But, Kate, at the end of the day, even if Bessent is a voice of moderation here, we do know that this is going to ultimately be decided by Trump here. But at least there is a voice of moderation,
 
BOLDUAN:  And everyone can go and look up Smoot-Hawley this morning at 7:00 A.M. with our coffee.
 
EGAN:  Yes.
 
BOLDUAN:  When it comes to Bessent, he did somewhat lay out some of his economic views over the weekend in an interview. What did you hear?
 
EGAN:  Yes. He talked to Larry Kudlow and he did lay out some of the biggest priorities here. He talked about tax cuts, of course, deregulation, energy dominance, the idea of pumping a lot more oil and natural gas, although there's some skepticism just how much more oil can be pumped because we have -- prices are pretty low and production is at all-time highs. But, directionally, that's what they want.
 
I thought the most interesting thing he talked about though was the budget, trying to ease some concerns about skyrocketing deficits by talking about spending cuts.
 <br>[07:25:05]
 
Take a listen to what he said to Kudlow.
 
So, I don't know if we had that audio, but he said he -- he basically was saying he is been investing in markets in bond market for 35 years and he doesn't think the bond market has ever seen the kind of spending cuts that he believes are possible during the second Trump administration.
 
Now there's reason to the skepticism that really they can cut that much, but why I think this is important --
 
BOLDUAN:  Was this speaking to the DOGE?
 
EGAN:  It is BOLDUAN:  Okay.
 
EGAN:  It is. He was talking about the Elon Musk commission that is going to try to look at ways to make the government more efficient.
 
Now, there's reason to be skeptical just how much more they can cut without getting into the social safety net and without getting into interest payments on debt. But, directionally, he is trying to send a message to the bond market that they're not going to go crazy and blow up the budget. And that is something that investors want to hear. Now, whether or not they can make it a reality is another question, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  I mean, let us see. Let us see. It's good to see you. Thanks for laying it out for us this morning.
 
EGAN:  Thanks, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  So, there is also this. Why is everyone talking about Saquon Barkley today? The insane record-setting Sunday night game for the Eagles and what that man pulled off.
 
And also, there's this, snow and rain. Several major winter storms are in the forecast. And, yes, it could impact Thanksgiving travel. We're keeping an eye on it for you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:30:00]