Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Sudan Warns of Famine As Civil War Reaches First Year; Democrat, Republican Senatorial Bets All Eyes on the Senate Control in November Polls. Hong Kong's Second National Security Law Passes, But Reactions from Critics are Mixed; Royals Concerned over Recent Altered Photos. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired March 20, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead, weaponizing hunger in Sudan, an exclusive look at how one of the factions in the country's civil war is using violence and the threat of starvation to force allegiance from desperate locals. 
 
And increasingly dire warnings of extreme hunger for Palestinians in Gaza, as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vows to continue the military campaign against Hamas. 
 
Plus, a sweeping new security law passes in Hong Kong, fueling fresh concerns about Beijing's tightening grip on the city. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from Atlanta, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: And we begin this hour in Sudan, a country aid groups warn is on the brink of famine. Thousands of people have been killed since civil war broke out between two rival factions in April last year. 
 
Eight million people have been forced from their homes. The conflict has spawned a worsening hunger crisis. UNICEF is calling for a massive international effort to mobilize resources by the end of the month to stave off worst case scenarios. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JILL LAWLER, CHIEF OF FIELD OPERATIONS AND EMERGENCY, UNICEF IN SUDAN: The brutal war in Sudan is pushing the country towards a famine. And unless there is sufficient political will, attention and resources put towards the response now, we are looking at a potential catastrophic loss of lives. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) CHURCH: The U.N. says 24 million of Sudan's children are at risk of what it calls generational catastrophe. Among these, 14 million are in dire need of humanitarian support, 19 million are out of school in Sudan, and 4 million children are displaced from their homes by the conflict.
 
A new CNN investigation found Sudan's paramilitary rapid support forces have forcibly drafted hundreds of men and boys into their war against the Sudanese armed forces. In this exclusive report, Nima Elbagir shows how the RSF has weaponized food amid a looming famine and given civilians a deadly ultimatum. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNKNOWN (translated): The heroes are everywhere in Al Jazira.
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Propaganda video from the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces, the RSF.
 
For much of the last year, they have slashed and burned their way through the country. This video shows them triumphant and entrenched in the very heart of Sudan, Al-Jazira State. 
 
And they are recruiting local men in the hundreds.
 
UNKNOWN: I declare joining the RSF.
 
ELBAGIR (voice-over): But it's impossible to tell who here is a willing soldier and who has been forcibly conscripted. 
 
Eyewitnesses have told CNN that RSF soldiers are giving civilians an ultimatum, enlist or starve. 
 
Our investigation shows how almost 700 men and 65 children have been forcibly recruited to swell RSF ranks.
 
And that's just what we've been able to verify in Jazira. 
 
Across Sudan, reports and images like this one are emerging. Children in RSF uniform.
 
As across Sudan, millions forced from their homes by violence now face famine. CNN spoke to three dozen eyewitnesses, survivors and the families of victims. The RSF, they say, is weaponizing hunger, denying food to those who won't join.
 
Aid groups say almost four million children in Sudan are already malnourished as the country faces mass starvation. If aid agencies can't get food to those in need, almost a quarter of a million children could die. 
 
Jazira is Sudan's breadbasket. It's heartland. To control this part of Sudan is to exert control over who lives and who dies. 
 
The RSF deny they are responsible for the hunger gripping the country, yet they control every aspect of farming this land.
 <br>[03:05:05]
 
They control the warehouses of food and aid meant to support the most vulnerable. They control the seed supplies, fertilizer, pesticides, agricultural machinery and irrigation channels. 
 
And it's not just the infrastructure. Farmers are being targeted, brutalized, degraded and even killed. 
 
Not just to control food, but to force allegiance. 
 
You hear shots off camera as six of the men are executed, according to survivors who spoke to CNN. Those who were spared say the RSF threatened to starve their families if they didn't join. 
 
The RSF sit in the heart of Sudan, hoarding food meant for millions. From here they can wait out, starve out Sudan's people and its army. 
 
Fear, uncertainty, despair cascade as the months of war drag on and the world looks away. 
 
ELBAGIR: The RSF did not respond to CNN's request for comment. We shared our findings with the U.N. Special Rapporteur for Contemporary Slavery who says that the evidence we uncovered, the evidence you saw there of forced enlistment is tantamount to contemporary slavery.
 
Nima Elbagir, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: For more on this I'm joined now by Dame Rosalind Marsden, former British Ambassador to Sudan and an Associate Fellow at Chatham House. I appreciate you being with us.
 
DAME ROSALIND MARSDEN, FORMER BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO SUDAN: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: So this CNN investigation found that Sudan's paramilitary rapid support forces are using terror tactics to forcibly enlist men and boys into their war against Sudan's armed forces and are weaponizing hunger. What's your reaction to this report and what's happening on the ground? 
 
MARSDEN: Well, as your report very clearly highlighted, the Rapid Support Forces have really alienated much of the population of the country by the very grave violations they're committing, including in parts of Darfur ethnically targeted killing across the country, sexual violence and of course a looting spree. 
 
But of course the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights has also pointed out that grave human rights violations, many of which could amount to war crimes or other atrocity crimes, are being committed by both sides in this conflict. 
 
The Sudanese armed forces have also been involved in these violations including indiscriminate aerial bombing, so both sides are really showing complete disregard for the safety of civilians and indeed it's astonishing in a way that the situation in Sudan is receiving so little high-level international political attention. 
 
The U.N. humanitarian chief, humanitarian aid chief Martin Griffiths, warned the Security Council last Friday that five million people could face catastrophic hunger in some parts of the country over the coming months and for the first time the Security Council has finally adopted a resolution on Sudan calling for a truce during Ramadan, which has so far been ignored and also unhindered humanitarian access. 
 
And it's very concerning that the UN humanitarian response plan for Sudan is only five percent funded. It's really urgent that that funding gap is closed and also that donors start giving more direct financial support to the grassroots, first-line responders on the ground in the emergency response rooms. 
 
CHURCH: Do you think it is that the international community is not responding to this emergency situation and starvation? I mean we're looking at children at risk of dying of starvation. 
 
MARSDEN: Well indeed, I mean the international community seems to be very much distracted obviously by the many other major crises in the world, but you know the situation in Sudan can't be ignored. 
 
I think it's really important to bear in mind that if this war continues it could turn into an ethnicized full-fledged civil war, that it could draw in extremist groups, it could destabilize already fragile countries in Sudan's neighborhood and it could also of course have implications for the security of the Red Sea. 
 <br>[03:10:01]
 
Sudan has a 750 kilometer coastline on the Red Sea and obviously in current circumstances that's a very sensitive situation. 
 
The Sudanese armed forces have just re-established diplomatic relations with Iran after quite a long break, so there are sort of wider regional implications for this war as well. 
 
CHURCH: Indeed and of course we also learned in this report that if aid agencies can't get supplies into these areas of Sudan, it is estimated that nearly a quarter of a million children could very well die. What needs to happen to ensure that is not the outcome with the RSF controlling of course every aspect of food production in Sudan? 
 
MARSDEN: Well the RSF, you know, have obviously controlled part of the country. They control most of the west of Sudan, four of the five states of Darfur, part of Kordofan, part of central Sudan and much of Khartoum, but the army control the north and the east. 
 
I think what is really important is that, particularly in relation to the dire situation in Darfur, that more border crossing points are opened up to allow the aid agencies to get aid -- critical life-saving aid into Darfur as soon as possible. 
 
Last month the Sudanese armed forces controlled government in, de facto government in, Port Sudan tried to prevent cross-border delivery of aid. 
 
They said they didn't want humanitarian assistance to go to the Sudanese civilians who are caught up in the RSF controlled areas. That ban has now been partially reversed but far more border crossing points need to be opened and bureaucratic impediments to the delivery of aid need to be removed and people who are obstructing the delivery of aid need to be, you know, sanctioned or there need to be consequences. 
 
CHURCH: Dame Rosalind Marsden, thank you so much for joining us. We appreciate it. 
 
MARSDEN: Thank you, my pleasure. 
 
CHURCH: There are new warnings on the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Gaza. The World Health Organization says a growing number of infants in the enclave are on the brink of death from acute hunger. It comes just a day after a U.N.-backed report predicted an imminent famine in northern Gaza between now and May. 
 
The U.S. Secretary of State says Gaza's entire population is at severe levels of food insecurity, while the U.N. Human Rights Chief is warning Israel that continued restriction of aid into the territory may amount to a war crime. 
 
Despite the growing international pressure, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he is determined to achieve Israel's war goals in Gaza, especially in the southern city of Rafah. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): We have an argument with the Americans regarding the need to enter Rafah, not regarding the need to eliminate Hamas, but rather the need to enter Rafah. We do not see a way to eliminate Hamas militarily without destroying those remaining battalions. We are determined to do so. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Netanyahu's comments come despite warnings from U.S. President Joe Biden to refrain from a ground incursion in Rafah. The White House says two top Israeli officials are expected to visit Washington next week to discuss the Rafah offensive.
 
And for more, we want to go to CNN's Nada Bashir. She joins us live from London. Good morning to you, Nada. So what is the latest on the lack of sufficient levels of food in Gaza and how will this likely shape the upcoming talks between Israeli and U.S. officials? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well look Rosemary, the situation on the humanitarian front in Gaza is growing more desperate by the hour. We are hearing more and more warnings from aid agencies, from the United Nations over the situation on the ground. You mentioned there that stark warning around the increasing number of infant deaths that we are seeing now in Gaza and infants facing starvation. Many newborns, according to doctors on the ground who have been working alongside the World Health Organization, have been reporting that newborn babies are being born severely underweight, that pregnant mothers are also facing starvation and severely underweight. And of course we have been hearing those repeated warnings now of an imminent famine, according to that U.N.-backed report. That is something which could be officially declared in the coming weeks, if not days, according to current data and statistics. 
 
And as we have heard from UN officials, more than a million Palestinians inside Gaza now have completely exhausted their food supplies. 
 <br>[03:15:04]
 
So there is a huge amount of urgency around the humanitarian situation. We continue to hear from international partners, including the United States of course, calling for the unimpeded access for humanitarian agencies and of course humanitarian supplies into the Gaza Strip. 
 
Now we have seen those airdrops, of course, which do come with some issues and problems and concerns. We have seen now the establishment of a maritime corridor. But what we are repeatedly hearing now from aid groups is that they want to see more access via Gaza's land crossings. There are at least six land crossings between Israel, Egypt and Gaza. Not all of course are renewed. Normally, of course, I mean, some have been closed for years. 
 
The key crossings are Rafah between Egypt and Gaza and of course the Kerem Shalom crossing between Israel and Gaza. But what we have seen is the repeated obstruction of aid getting into the Gaza Strip. In fact, the United Nations itself has accused Israel of intentionally obstructing aid from getting into the Gaza Strip. 
 
And we have been hearing mounting pressure from Israel's allies, including the United States, calling for Israel to do more to allow more aid in. Now of course we are expecting to see an Israeli delegation traveling to the United States to meet with U.S. officials.
 
It's unclear which U.S. officials will be part of that meeting or when exactly that meeting will take place. One U.S. official suggested that it could take place as early as next week. But of course the focus is set to be on the humanitarian situation and also crucially the situation in Rafah. 
 
We know that the Israeli prime minister has said that they have approved military operational plans to go into Rafah in terms of a ground operation. They say targeting Hamas. 
 
The U.S. says it hasn't seen a credible plan just yet as to how the Israeli military plans to protect and safeguard the 1.5 million civilians currently sheltering and displaced in Rafah. So that will be a key topic, a focus for the U.S. and Israeli officials during that meeting. 
 
CHURCH: Nada Bashir, joining us live from London. Many thanks for that report. 
 
It's time for a short break. When we come back, U.S. President Joe Biden heads west making his case for re-election to Latino voters in two battleground states. We'll have that and more in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: The matchup is now set for what should be one of the most important U.S. Senate races this November. 
 
CNN projects Trump-backed Cleveland businessman Bernie Moreno will win the Ohio Republican primary. He'll face incumbent Democrat Sherrod Brown in a contest that could decide which party controls the Senate. CNN exit polls show roughly seven in ten GOP voters say it's at least somewhat important that their next senator supports Donald Trump.
 <br>[03:20:03]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNIE MORENO (R), SENATORIAL CANDIDATE: I also want to thank President Trump. I just got off the phone with President Trump. 
 
And you know, the reality is we have an opportunity now. 
 
We have an opportunity now to retire the old commie and send them to retirement home and save this country. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: President Biden and Donald Trump swept the slate of presidential primaries on Tuesday. Both candidates already have enough delegates to secure their party's nominations. More now on President Biden's re-election campaign from CNN White House correspondent Arlette Saenz. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: President Biden brought his reelection pitch here out west to the battleground states of Nevada and Arizona on Tuesday. The president beat former President Donald Trump here back in 2020, but polling has shown much more narrow contests this time around. 
 
So President Biden trying to invest the time early to shore up support from voters. Now, the president traveled to Reno, where he met with campaign workers and volunteers at an office there, and then traveled here to Las Vegas, Nevada. His focus in Las Vegas was trying to address the cost of housing in America. White House officials are keenly aware that many Americans are facing a housing crunch amid high rental prices and also high interest rates facing homebuyers. 
 
The president trying to address some of the initiatives that he would propose in a second term to try to alleviate some of those costs as officials -- campaign officials are very aware that some of the feelings about the housing market are contributing to the sour economic sentiments that many Americans are feeling at this time. 
 
Now, another focus for President Biden while out west was trying to shore up support among Latino voters. Latino voters make up a sizable portion of the electorate in both Nevada and Arizona. The president traveled down to Arizona to launch the campaign's Latinos con Biden- Harris initiative. It's an organizing program to really try to mobilize Latino voters heading into November. 
 
The president needs to build up support with those groups at a time when former President Trump has really tried to make some inroads in the community, a coalition that typically has helped Democratic candidates. So President Biden, as he met with those voters, organizers in Phoenix said that he recognizes Latino voters could be key to him securing a second term in the White House. He's trying to put in the work early now to help him do that.
 
Arlette Saenz, CNN, traveling with the president in Las Vegas, Nevada. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Senate candidates endorsed by Donald Trump have not had the best track record over the past two elections, and Republicans are hoping the Ohio race will break the mold. I spoke earlier with Natasha Lindstaedt, professor of government at the University of Essex, and I asked for her take on the Bernie Moreno-Sherrod Brown matchup. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NATASHA LINDSTAEDT, PROF. OF GOVERNMENT, UNIVERSITY OF ESSEX: That's going to be an incredibly tight race. And as you mentioned, the Senate in general is going to be very, very tight with right now, the Democrats are barely holding on to it. We have a lot of important races, not just in the Senate, but also in the House and, of course, also with the presidential election.
 
I mean, it's really hard to make predictions now, some six, seven months ahead, and also just looking at primaries. The primaries really bring out the more extreme voters, that you're more likely to have the more activist voters that are coming to vote in the primary. So it's very difficult to predict what might happen in the general election. 
 
But what we've seen so far is that Trump and Biden have won handedly their primaries in the five states, like Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Kansas, and Ohio. And it's been the candidate that has been most predicted to win their primary in some of these Senate and House runoffs that have emerged on top there. 
 
So it's going to be really interesting to see what happens. But both Biden and Trump really have an uphill battle here. Though Trump is leading in the polls slightly, and it depends on which poll you look at, he has been leading in the polls both nationally and by looking at state-by-state polls of some of these really important swing states. 
 
Both candidates have flaws and issues that are going to make it very difficult to win over the coalitions that they're going to need to. In particular, we're looking at Hispanic voters, as you mentioned. This was a demographic that Biden won with 63 percent. But Trump has been slowly gaining ground with Hispanics. He had only won 29 percent of Hispanics in the 2016 election. 
 <br>[03:24:55]
 
And this recent New York Times-Siena poll showed that he's actually leading Biden with Hispanics by five, six percent. And other polls have concurred with this. Now, it's important to note that these are registered voters. This is not likely voters. And it would be really unusual to have that huge a swing of a different -- of a demographic in terms of the way they're voting. 
 
But it's showing that Biden definitely has his work cut out for him. 
 
CHURCH: And meantime, Donald Trump said Tuesday the Democrats have been very opposed to Jewish people and to Israel, his words. But actually went further back on Monday, saying, and I'm quoting directly here, "any Jewish person that votes for Democrats hates their religion.
 
They hate everything about Israel and they should be ashamed of themselves because Israel will be destroyed". Direct words there from Donald Trump. Now, the Anti-Defamation League hit back, calling Trump's comments prejudicial and false. But does this strategy work for Trump to take Jewish votes away from the Democrats or does it backfire and do the exact opposite? 
 
LINDSTAEDT: I think this one is going to backfire. So far, actually, Jewish Americans have been supportive of Biden and the way that he's handled the crisis in Gaza by trying to offer some support to Israel. And of course, this has backfired for Biden with other voters. But that's another story. 
 
With Trump's comments, this is just going to, I think, inflame Jewish Americans. It's a really terrible thing to say, to accuse them of basically not being patriots if they vote for another party. And it's just fear mongering. So I can't imagine this would resonate with Jewish American voters who have traditionally already been voting on supporting Democratic parties and candidates anyways. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Two senior generals who oversaw the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2021 testified at a hearing about how the 20-year war ended and both blamed the State Department for delaying an evacuation operation in those final days. CNN's Oren Liebermann has more now from the Pentagon. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Two of the top commanders in the U.S. military during the Afghanistan withdrawal blasted the State Department for failing to order what's called a NEO, a noncombatant evacuation operation, earlier than they finally did in August of 2021. General Mark Milley, the top U.S. general at the time, and General
 
 Frank McKenzie, the commander of U.S. Central Command, said they pushed the State Department for plans around an emergency evacuation and ultimately pushed them to declare that, to order that NEO earlier and begin getting out Afghan civilians that had the ability to enter the U.S., as well as, of course, the embassy and American citizens who were in the country.
 
McKenzie specifically said about a month earlier, in July 2021, he became concerned about the State Department's ability to carry out a NEO, a noncombatant evacuation operation. 
 
The order finally came on August 14th in the final days of the withdrawal from Afghanistan. One day later, leaders of the Afghan government fled the country. 
 
And then, of course, we all saw the final pictures of the U.S. withdrawal, including, of course, in the closing days, a suicide bombing at the Abbey Gate to Kabul's International Airport that killed 13 U.S. service members. 
 
McKenzie and Milley essentially blasted the State Department and said that order to conduct the NEO should have come earlier. DOD was ready for it. They had planned for an evacuation, knowing it was a possibility. But the order itself had to come from state. 
 
GEN. KENNETH MCKENZIE, U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND (RET.): Orders to commence the noncombatant evacuation operation, bringing out our embassy, our citizens and at-risk Afghans were received on 14 August. 
 
These dates are important because I believe that the events of mid and late August 2021 were the direct result of delaying the initiation of the NEO for several months. In fact, until we were in extremist and the Taliban had overrun the country. 
 
As you are aware, the decision to begin a NEO rests with the Department of State, not the Department of Defense. 
 
LIEBERMANN: The chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who led this hearing, Congressman Michael McCaul, has his own ongoing investigation into the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan. That's part of his own ongoing effort. 
 
There is another investigation that was just completed. In fact, this is an additional review, and that's in addition to the review that U.S. Central Command already completed about the Afghanistan withdrawal. This additional investigation went back and interviewed more than 50 additional witnesses, including some 12 U.S. service members to look to see if there was anything that was missed in the original review. So, we're waiting to hear the contents of that investigation and whether it sheds any new light on the end of America's longest war.
 
Oren Liebermann, CNN, in the Pentagon. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) CHURCH: A new national security law in Hong Kong is fueling fresh concerns over what this will mean for the city. Details in a report just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hong Kong has passed a second national security law. Critics warn that it aligns the city more closely with mainland China and could deepen an ongoing crackdown on dissent. CNN's Kristie Lu Stout reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): On the streets of Hong Kong we ask a simple question. Do you support or not support article 23? 
 
UNKNOWN: I have no idea.
 
LU STOUT: No idea.
 
Yes or No?
 
UNKNOWN: Yeah, no. I have to go.
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): We ask in English. We ask in Cantonese. No comment. 
 
LU STOUT: Article 23 is Hong Kong's controversial new homegrown security legislation. It includes a range of new national security crimes including treason, espionage, external interference and disclosure of state secrets. 
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): It carries sentences of 10 years for crimes linked to state secrets and sedition, 20 years for espionage and up to life in prison for treason, insurrection, sabotage and mutiny. 
 
Officials point out that many Western countries have similar legislation and say it will fill loopholes in the sweeping national security law imposed by Beijing in 2020 after mass anti-government protests. 
 
JOHN LEE, HONG KONG CHIEF EXECUTIVE: We still have to watch out for potential sabotage undercurrents that try to create troubles. 
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): In 2020 article 23 was shelved after an attempt to enact it drew half a million residents onto the streets in protest. No such scenes of opposition are expected this time around. 
 
Beijing's national security crackdown has transformed Hong Kong. Dozens of political opponents have been arrested, civil society groups disbanded and outspoken media outlets shut down. Former opposition lawmaker Emily Lau was among the protesters in 2003.
 
 She's no longer marching but has a message for Beijing. 
 
EMILY LAU, FORMER OPPOSITION LEADER: I just want to tell Beijing there's no need for such stern treatment. I don't think Hong Kong will go back to the turbulent past and I think people want to look forward to a safe and peaceful and free future. We want Hong Kong to prosper. We are part of China. I've never disputed that but we are different from the rest of China but the difference is getting less and less which is very sad. 
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): Critics say the law could have deep ramifications for the city status as a global business hub. The U.S. State Department says it is concerned by the quote "broad and vague definitions of state secrets and external interference that could be used to eliminate dissent through the fear of arrest and detention". 
 <br>[03:35:03]
 
The Hong Kong government rejects that criticism as biased and misleading with Security Secretary Chris Tang pointing out there is strong public support. 
 
CHRIS TANG, HONG KONG SECRETARY OF SECURITY (translated): We received 98.6 percent support and positive feedback.
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): But on the streets--  
 
UNKNOWN (translated): I don't want to answer.
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): -- it's hard to tell.
 
UNKNOWN (translated): We won't discuss things, very sensitive.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Legal scholars and business figures have told CNN they are worried about the harsh penalties and broad definitions in the new law. According to the Hong Kong government, cases will be handled, quote "in accordance with the law". 
 
And still to come a top photo agency is flagging another digitally altered photo released by the British Royals. We'll discuss why it's a troubling trend. Back in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
CHURCH: The legendary Sean Connery in the 1962 film "Dr. No", the first of seven actors to play the British super spy on the silver screen. 
 
Well now there is rampant speculation over who the next 007 will be. British tabloid "The Sun" citing an unnamed source says the role has been offered to Aaron Taylor Johnson. The 33 year old is known for films like "Savages" and "Nocturnal Animals". Other reports say there's no truth to the Bond rumors. CNN has reached out to Eon Productions and Taylor Johnson's team for comment. Must be getting close. 
 
Well another photograph released by Kensington Palace has caught the attention of media experts and it's making the conspiracy theories surrounding the British Royals worse. CNN's Nick Watt spoke with a photography expert on the issue. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK WATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Getty Images now says this pic taken by Kate, Duchess of Cambridge released last year of the Queen and the grandkids and the great-grandkids was quote "digitally enhanced at source". 
 
KIM FOX, FAMILY PHOTOGRAPHER: A hot spot here and then another hot spot here. That lighting is weird to me. To capture a photo of children this young all looking at the camera and all smiling is very difficult. 60 to 70 percent chance I would be switching ahead here and there. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Kate earlier admitted to amateur editing of this recent smiley snap before it was released. 
 
WATT: There's a sort of wrist cardigan situation over here. 
 
FOX: If one of the folds was bulging out then she would have liquefied it and it would have distorted her hand. 
 
WATT (voice-over): So what? It's just a little Photoshop. Well number one we're told Kate is recovering from surgery. Hadn't been seen since Christmas fueling breathless bonkers conspiracy theories the fudged photo supersized the breathlessness. 
 <br>[03:40:09]
 
WATT: There is some suggestion that Kate is sort of indisposed and it's a complete fabrication and it's super sinister. 
 
FOX: I guess that's possible but if somebody were this good as a retoucher to make it look this natural they would have perfected the imperfections. They wouldn't have done a bad job on the cloning of the jacket. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Number two the Royal Press Shop is usually pretty slick imposing rules on how we commoners can use official royal photos. No cropping or photoshopping. So why are they now engaged in such amateurish jiggery-pokery? 
 
FOX: Let's just say this one's hysterically crying. You know he's looking off and blinked. You would have to answer the question whether that's you know not photo journalistic integrity because if this was a photo that was 20 shots were taken in exactly the same place in a matter of a minute and you switch two heads for smiles how unethical. 
 
WATT: You're not changing the narrative. 
 
FOX: History. You're not changing the narrative. 
 
WATT: Journalistically, Jordan, ethical to do that? You wouldn't do that? 
 
UNKNOWN: No not at all. 
 
WATT: You wouldn't do that? Okay. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Number three public image is almost all the Royals have left. They don't do a lot of actual ruling. It's mostly shaking hands opening supermarkets and stuff and just looking great. So an image dent, a collapse of trust is a big deal for what is essentially an anachronistic institution that survives on goodwill. 
 
FOX: Maybe she should have an in-house retoucher? 
 
WATT (voice-over): "The Sun" newspaper just published some of the first images of Kate in the wild this year. Then "The Telegraph" ran a story alleging it's not Kate but a look-alike. 
 
Is trust eroding? That's the so what of it all. 
 
WATT: Royals have basically been retouching for centuries. Henry VIII was undoubtedly uglier in real life than in those royal portraits. But you can't get away with that anymore. 
 
The last Queen, Elizabeth II, she had a mantra: never complain, never explain. You also can't really get away with that anymore. 
 
Listen, the palace has said that Kate will be reappearing at Easter. That's about ten days from now. So let's see if she comes out maybe then everyone will stop getting their bloomers in a bunch over some Photoshop. Maybe. Actually I doubt it. 
 
Nick Watt, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: I doubt it too. Thanks so much for spending part of your day with me. I'm Rosemary Church. "Marketplace Europe" is next and then CNN NEWSROOM returns with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(MARKETPLACE EUROPE)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(MARKETPLACE EUROPE)
 <br>[03:55:00]
 
(MARKETPLACE EUROPE)