Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Kremlin Criticized U.S. on Adding Oil to the Fire of the Ukraine War; Hong Kong Sentenced 45 Pro-Democracy Leaders in Prison, the Longest Sentence is 10 Years; U.S. Envoy Arrived in Lebanon to Join Ceasefire Talks Between Israel and Hezbollah; Burglars Break In Windsor Castle, Stealing Some Vehicles from the Farm. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired November 19, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and to everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead. 
 
Moscow accuses the U.S. of adding fuel to the fire after Joe Biden allows Ukraine to use U.S. long-range missiles in Russia. 
 
Plus, a U.S. envoy arrives in Beirut as Israel and Hezbollah consider a ceasefire proposal. What this means for the deadly conflict in Lebanon. 
 
And Beijing tightens its grip on political freedom in Hong Kong, sentencing dozens of pro-democracy leaders to up to 10 years behind bars. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from Atlanta, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. And we begin with the leaders of the world's biggest economies meeting to discuss the future of trade, climate change and conflict. Tuesday is the second and final day of the G20 summit in Rio de Janeiro. 
 
In a joint statement on Monday, the leaders highlighted the human suffering being caused by the wars in Gaza and Ukraine. They also called for cooperation on climate change. 
 
Of course, these talks are happening just two months before Donald Trump becomes the next U.S. president. He is expected to enact massive changes to U.S. policy. With that in mind, current President Joe Biden urged G20 members to press for a ceasefire in the Israel-Hamas war. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: We're going to keep pushing to accelerate a ceasefire deal that ensures Israel's security, bring hostages home, and ends the suffering of the Palestinian people and children. I ask everyone here to increase the pressure on Hamas, which is currently infusing this deal. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: President Biden also encouraged the group to support Ukraine. Donald Trump has been highly critical of continuing aid for Ukraine and has promised to end the war there. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: The United States totally supports Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Everyone around this table, in my view, should as well. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Mr. Biden's comments follow a major shift in U.S. policy as he allows Ukraine to use long-range U.S. weapons to strike inside Russia. The move sparked swift reaction from the Kremlin, which says the U.S. President is only adding fuel to the fire. 
 
All this comes as Russia ramps up its strikes on Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says at least eight people, including a child, were killed in a drone strike in the Sumy region Monday night. 
 
Mr. Zelenskyy, who met with troops in two frontline towns on Monday, says each new Russian strike confirms Vladimir Putin's true intentions that he wants the war to keep going. 
 
And CNN's Clare Sebastian is following developments. She joins us now live from London. Good morning to you, Clare. So what more can you tell us about the Kremlin's response to President Biden's policy shift on the use of U.S. missiles inside Russia, and what's the latest on strikes in Ukraine as it marks 1,000 days of war? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Good Morning Rosemary. The outrage that we saw from the Kremlin was predictable. It has followed a similar pattern throughout the war as western red lines have crumbled and this war has progressed. Pouring oil on a fire was the phrase the Kremlin spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, used when referring to the U.S. 
 
We're going to retort from the deputy U.S. National Security adviser saying that was of course a fire that Russia lit. Interestingly, some new comments this morning. Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman speaking to state news agency TASS, saying bringing up the nuclear doctrine which President Putin had promised to revise in September, which may lower the bar for a first strike. He says those changes are almost completely drafted. So interesting that he would bring that up, presumably an element of saber rattling there. 
 
But I think there's two ways to look at this. I think Ukraine's preference would be for the West to see this as just the normal pattern of Russian threats, threats that they believe have been drastically neutralized by their frequency and by the fact that, for example, Ukraine has already been using Western long-range missiles on Crimea, which Russia of course sees as Russian territory. But I think the other thing, and this is clearly part of the calculus
 
 for the U.S., is that there were serious concerns two years ago.in this war that Russia came very close to using a tactical nuclear weapon on Ukraine. 
 <br>[03:04:58]
 
And that may explain why the permission that President Biden has reportedly granted to Ukraine to use these Western missiles appears to be concentrated in the Kursk region, where we know that Russia is amassing both Russian and North Korean troops for a potential counteroffensive there. 
 
The U.S. wants Ukraine to hold on to that region ahead of what appears to be clear evidence of an international push towards diplomacy here, but as you noted the frequency of attacks is stepping up. Russia appears to have no intention of sitting down at the negotiating table as of now. 
 
It's been very deadly days for civilians that attack on Sumy overnight Monday killing now at least eight people that came a day after another attack with a missile on a residential area in that same border region which killed 11 people. Today is a day of mourning in the southern port city of Odessa after 10 people were killed in a ballistic missile strike there on Monday. 
 
So aerial attacks are stepping up. There was a massive attack over the weekend on the energy grid. This just reveals the Russian strategy of attrition continues and given the Western political climate and the fact that they are still inching forward on the eastern front, they see no reason to give up on that tactic. Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: All right, our thanks to Claire Sebastian joining us live with that report from London. 
 
And earlier I spoke with CNN military analyst Cedric Leighton about what Ukraine's use of long range weapons inside Russia could mean for the ongoing conflict. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: When you look at these missiles, they're actually a short-range missile, when you look at the designation of different ballistic missiles. And what you have to account for here is the fact that these missiles don't go beyond 300 kilometers. 
 
So they will basically affect anything that the Russians have within the border regions, anywhere from the Kursk region all the way down to the southeast, and even Crimea, of course. But these areas are going to be critical for the Russian effort to resupply their forces. 
 
They're going to be critical for the Russian effort, along with North Korean soldiers, to go into the Kursk region, parts of which Ukraine has occupied. So they're going to have a limited impact if they are used in quantity and the targeting is done properly. So that will be, those will be the two big ifs. Those can make a
 
 difference on the battlefield if they are used in concert with other strategies that the Ukrainians might have. So they could have a tactical impact that then would eventually cascade into a strategic impact for the outcome of the war. 
 
CHURCH: So Colonel, how might President Vladimir Putin react when Ukraine actually uses these U.S. long-range missiles to strike inside Russia, given what he has recently said about the possible use of nuclear weapons on the part of Russia? 
 
LEIGHTON: Yeah, that of course is an area of great concern. We don't believe that Putin is going to use nuclear weapons, although he has changed Russian doctrine to reflect the possibility of using nuclear weapons if a nuclear power helps Ukraine even use conventional forces against Russia. 
 
Now, the Russians are going to make up some stories when it comes to this, but the fact of the matter is that the Ukrainians already know how to use the ATACMS missile, they already have the ATACMS in their inventory, and they've used it in places like Crimea. 
 
So the Russians may use an excuse to escalate the war, but the fact of the matter is that they are really bound by the confines of geography as well as their capabilities. They're bound from escalating in that sense. 
 
So it's going to be a tough thing for the Russians to respond to, but they're going to try to escalate it in perhaps unconventional ways, perhaps using elements of sabotage, cyber attacks. Those kinds of things could definitely be a possibility in the Russian arsenal. 
 
CHURCH: And of course, the timing of this is interesting, isn't it? Because this major U.S. strategy shift comes with just two months to go before President-elect Donald Trump takes office. 
 
What impact might this policy shift have so late in the Biden administration, and how might this impact the Trump transition team as it prepares to take the reins with Trump's promise to end this war? 
 
LEIGHTON: Well, in some ways it could box in Trump's ability to respond to different events, be it Ukrainian diplomatic efforts, Russian moves on the battlefield, all of those things could definitely be changed because of this permission slip that the Biden administration has given the Ukrainians now. 
 <br>[03:09:54]
 
So what might happen is that the incoming Trump administration might try to follow the Biden policy up to a point, but then they will seek probably to de-escalate tensions and try to bring both sides to the table, to the negotiating table. 
 
That's going to be an interesting endeavor because the Ukrainians, of course, don't want to give up any territory, but the fact of the matter is that the wartime situation, the military situation, is one in which that is perhaps the most likely outcome, as undesirable as it is for the Ukrainians and for many of us in the West. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Now to the Middle East where Gaza officials say at least 50 people have been killed in the latest Israeli strikes. That includes 17 members of the same family in Beit Lahiya. The city's hospital director says his facility was attacked as well. CNN has reached out to the Israeli military for comment. The IDF previously said it was targeting terrorist infrastructure in the area. 
 
Lebanese authorities say they expect the death toll to rise after at least five people were killed by an Israeli attack on central Beirut. The strike hit a densely populated neighborhood a few hundred meters from the Prime Minister's office and parliament. It's the third Israeli attack on the heart of the Lebanese capital in two days. Again, CNN has reached out to the IDF for comment. 
 
Meantime, U.S. envoy Amos Hochstein arrived in Beirut today to discuss ceasefire negotiations between Israel and Hezbollah.
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks is following developments for us from Abu Dhabi. Good to see you Paula. So what might the arrival of Hoekstein signal for the state of these ceasefire negotiations? 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rosemary, it's certainly going to give hope that the ceasefire talks are heading in the right direction. In fact, we've heard from Biden administration officials saying that they have had reactions from both sides, that they are having an exchange of ideas at this point. So certainly there appears to be some kind of optimism. 
 
We did hear from the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, saying that there is progress, but there is no agreement yet pointing out that both the Lebanese side and the Israeli side have indicated a willingness to get this done and to get it done within a short time frame. So certainly that is going to give some optimism that they're heading towards some kind of agreement. 
 
Of course one of the sticking points may be the fact that we understand from officials on all sides that Israel would like to reserve the right to be able to carry out strikes on Hezbollah targets if they believe that ceasefire is being violated. Something which we've heard from the Lebanese Prime Minister is unlikely to be agreed to. 
 
So at this point it appears as though what we've heard from the Lebanese Prime Minister, most of it has been agreed. There are just the final details to hammer through. But at the same time as we're listening to these officials talking about their optimism for the ceasefire deal, we're seeing an escalation in strikes against southern Lebanon and against, as you said there, just in central Beirut, at least five being killed in an Israeli airstrike there. 
 
And we've heard from the Israeli military as well that they have moved their artillery batteries from Israeli territory, firing across the border into southern Lebanon, into southern Lebanon itself. So certainly it does feel like an escalation. 
 
Just last week we heard from the defense minister that they were going to increase their ground operation in Lebanon itself. Now, we also know that there have been rockets and missiles fired from Lebanon into Israel itself in a Palestinian town in the north, at least one person was killed and others injured in a rocket attack. 
 
And so we are seeing on both sides that there is this continual escalation in hostilities, even at the same time as we hear that there could be some positive news when it comes to a ceasefire. We understand debris from an intercepted rocket wounded several people in Tel Aviv as well. 
 
And then just briefly on Gaza, we are seeing once again in northern Gaza more air strikes affecting people in that area, at least 50 having been killed in one particular, one of those attacks. We understand that at least 17 people of the same family were killed. 
 
This is the family of a cardiologist who was working at the Kamal Adwan hospital nearby at the time and we have reached out to the IDF for clarification on that strike. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH: Heartbreaking for that family. Paula Hancocks, joining us live from Abu Dhabi with that report. I Appreciate it. 
 
We are following developments in Hong Kong where 45 pro-democracy figures have been sentenced to prison terms of up to 10 years on subversion charges. 
 <br>[03:15:07]
 
This comes after Beijing imposed a sweeping national security crackdown four years ago. Among those sentenced, legal scholar Benny Tai, who received the longest prison term of 10 years, and former student leader Joshua Wong, who will be jailed for over four and a half years. 
 
More than 300 people queued in the rain outside the court Tuesday morning to show their support for the defendants. The U.S., Australia and Amnesty International are among those who have condemned the sentences. 
 
And CNN's Ivan Watson is in Hong Kong. He joins us now live. Good to see you again, Ivan. So what more can you tell us about how this sentencing played out and how supporters are reacting? 
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Right, well this is a huge trial, as you pointed out, 45 defendants who've all been convicted. 
 
The combined jail sentences that were issued today amount to more than 240 years in prison, more than two centuries that have now been handed down to these 45 defendants, the majority of whom pled guilty to the charges against them in an effort to try to reduce the sentences. 
 
They were convicted of conspiracy to commit subversion. The judges said that had this scheme been carried out to the very end, quote, "the adverse consequences would be far reaching and no less serious than overthrowing the government." 
 
The scheme that is being discussed was an unofficial primary election conducted by these opposition politicians and activists in July of 2020. And that is part of what the prosecutors alleged was a scheme to effectively bring down the government here. 
 
So all of these defendants were arrested en masse in January of 2021, and most of them have been behind bars ever since then. The sentences range from four years in prison to 10 years. That's how much the mastermind got, Benny Tai who is a legal scholar who helped organize protests. 
 
And the top law enforcement official here in Hong Kong has gone on record since the sentencing saying that his government is going to review these sentences and look at whether or not they should appeal and argue for stricter, longer sentences for these defendants. 
 
Among the people sentenced were Joshua Wong, who some people may recognize. He was that young student protest leader who helped lead multiple protests against the government, against the Chinese national government, who graced the front pages of magazines. And he got more than four years' sentence. And as he was leaving the courtroom today, he yelled out, I love Hong Kong. 
 
Now, the authorities here argue that this helped bring stability back to this city, which was wracked by a year of anti-government protests which grew increasingly violent. 
 
The critics, which include Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, they say this is part of a broader crackdown on democratic freedoms that the city used to enjoy, like independent newspapers, which have all been shut in the last four to five years. 
 
The U.S. consulate put out a statement calling on China and the Hong Kong authorities to cease, as it puts it, politically motivated prosecutions of Hong Kong citizens and to immediately release all political prisoners. 
 
There was outside the courtroom, outside the courthouse, one woman who tried to put up a protest sign. The police quickly grabbed her and put her in a police van. 
 
And that underscores, I think, Rosemary, the political transformation the city has seen since the crackdown was brought in. 
 
Hong Kong used to witness large, mostly peaceful street protests and demonstrations and airing of political different views and criticisms that is no longer tolerated in the city. If somebody tries to put up a sign, they will very quickly be spirited away by law enforcement. 
 
CHURCH: All right, our thanks to Ivan Watson bringing us that live report from Hong Kong. I Appreciate it. 
 
Still to come, pressure is building on Donald Trump's pick for attorney general amid calls for Congress to release the results of an ethics investigation. New details on those allegations just ahead. 
 
Plus, as the U.S. wrestles with migrant crime and immigration reform, Donald Trump's supporters continue to highlight the murder case of Laken Riley. We will look at some of the new evidence that emerged on the second day of testimony. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. U.S. President-elect Donald Trump continues to select his choices for cabinet posts as he prepares to return to the White House. He has tapped former congressman and Fox Business News host Sean Duffy for Secretary of Transportation. The role is currently filled by Pete Buttigieg. 
 
Sources tell CNN Trump has also personally made calls to senators trying to secure support for former congressman Matt Gaetz, his pick for attorney general. It has sparked heated discussion in Washington since Gaetz was being investigated by the House Ethics Committee on allegations of sex trafficking and more. 
 
An attorney for two women who testified in that investigation spoke with CNN's Erin Burnett saying one client claimed she saw Gaetz having sex with a minor. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOEL LEPPARD, ATTORNEY FOR TWO WOMEN WHO TESTIFIED TO HOUSE ETHICS COMMITTEE: She testified to the House that as she was walking out to the pool area, she turned to her right and she witnessed her client, I'm sorry, her friend, having sex with Representative Gaetz, and her friend at that time was 17. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: His client went on to say she didn't think Gaetz knew the girl was underage at the time. Gaetz has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. 
 
Well Donald Trump is pushing ahead with his mass deportation plans and has signaled his intent to declare a national emergency on immigration. Promises to crack down on undocumented migrants were at the top of his America First agenda during the campaign and now he's working to put it in place starting with day one of his second term. 
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: President-elect Donald Trump confirmed that he is preparing a national emergency declaration to fulfill his campaign promise of mass deportation. 
 
It's a telling move, one that indicates just how resource-intensive any type of plan to detain and deport migrants at large scale would be. Now, it also may sound familiar. 
 
Of course, Donald Trump in his first term used a national emergency declaration to unlock Pentagon funds for his border wall. Now that faced numerous lawsuits and it's possible that they may happen again. 
 
But sources tell me that this time a national emergency declaration would be used to use and shore up Pentagon resources and military assets again for detention spaces and also to follow through on those deportations. What they say is that these -- this would not be to bring U.S. military to arrest immigrants in the United States. 
 
Now all of this of course is because they are trying to build deportation up to scale and that also includes according to sources, regional capability and looking at where they can expand detention facilities already in the United States. 
 
Now in addition to all of this, sources say that other plans are underway. That includes executive actions like bringing back remain in Mexico, revising asylum restrictions, or for example, making more immigrants eligible for removal. 
 <br>[03:25:05]
 
Taken together, it would amount to a far more hardline approach to immigration, one similar to Donald Trump's first term in office. 
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Ron Brownstein is a CNN senior political analyst and senior editor at "The Atlantic." He joins me now from Los Angeles. Good to have you with us. 
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SR. POLITICAL ANALYST AND SR. EDITOR, "THE ATLANTIC": Hi Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: So as President-elect Donald Trump continues to fill the remaining key positions in his new leadership team, all eyes are on his controversial pick for Attorney General Matt Gaetz. 
 
Now there is a new account of damning testimony against him. The lawyer for two women questioned by the House Ethics Committee, saying that one of them told the panel she personally witnessed Gaetz having sex with a minor. 
 
What impact revelations like this have on Gaetz's confirmation, even as he says these allegations are invented and would constitute false testimony to Congress? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Yeah, look, unqualified, inappropriate words like that don't do justice to what we are talking about here. We're talking about someone who is in some ways, you know, the inverse, the opposite, the upside down from stranger things of what you would expect in an Attorney General and in some ways as we talked about before. I think that is the point, I mean Trump is testing here whether
 
 Republican senators will say no even to something that I think none of them could have imagined you know a few days ago that they would be asked to confirm that Gaetz as the Attorney General of the United States, and if they do or if they allow him to bypass their constitutional role to advise and consent to a recess appointment, I think Trump will take a very clear message there about what he can push them on beyond this appointment, beyond appointments in general and in policy more broadly. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah, I mean Donald Trump just tapped former GOP congressman and Fox Business host Sean Duffy, the transportation secretary. But Trump is yet to announce his other cabinet picks including the key post of Treasury Secretary. He's having trouble finding a name that's going to fit there. 
 
What is your reaction to some of the names out there right now like Tulsi Gabbard, Robert Kennedy Jr. and Pete Hegseth? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Yeah, well, first of all, as our colleague, Brianna Kehler, pointed out to me the other day on the air, it is striking that the principal reason Donald Trump got elected is because voters were frustrated with the cost of living and believe that he could deliver greater economic stability than they've achieved under Biden. 
 
How many of the major economic appointments has Donald Trump named? I mean, he's been focused on the departments that allow, that really could execute his threat of retribution and vengeance against those he thinks has wronged him. And the fact that he is putting, wants to put Matt Gaetz as the Attorney General and Pete Hegseth at the defense department shows that if those appointments succeed, there would be very few constraints. 
 
You would not see what you saw in the first term of officials at those critical departments resisting his plans to go against, quote, "the enemy from within," whether on the legal front at the Justice Department or potentially with a sharper edge at the Defense Department. 
 
You know, I think his appointments so far fall into two categories. One, there are the basic kind of conservatives you would get under any Republican presidency, maybe Marco Rubio, Doug Bergen at Interior as examples of that. 
 
And then you have the other ones, like the Gabbard, Hegseth, Gaetz. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. that really, I think, are designed to provoke outrage and to test whether Republican senators who have the advising consent responsibility will draw any line because if they don't draw a line now here, I think one thing we know from Donald Trump is a very good sense of human weakness. 
 
They don't draw a line here. He is going to pull that line further and further in directions that they could not previously have imagined going. 
 
CHURCH: And on another issue, Donald Trump is confirming that he plans to use the U.S. military to carry out mass deportations of undocumented immigrants by declaring a national emergency to implement his deportation plan. What might the consequences of that be? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, look, I mean, there's a lot that has come out in the last 48 hours or so. He's confirmed that he plans on using the military. Officials have indicated they're already looking at places to set up internment camps. 
 
And in the "New York Times" tonight, they reported that officials are already looking at ways to effectively end birthright citizenship, which was guaranteed in the 14th Amendment after the Civil War. 
 
Donald Trump ran on an explicit program with the largest deportation program in American history with a military component, with interning camps, and he improved his share of the vote among Latino voters who either didn't prioritize it or believed, as polling said toward the end of the election, that it would not mean them.
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
I wrote many times during the fall that if he won reelection and improved among Latinos while I'm making these very explicit pledges or threats depending upon your point of view, he would feel no political constraint about moving down this road. 
 
And I think he is sending the clear signal through his language and through the appointment that he's made. Tom Homan, Steven Miller that this in fact is going to be a very aggressive implementation of what he promised. 
 
Don't forget, there are four million U.S. citizen children, a Latino U.S. citizen children with at least one undocumented parent. And Tom Homan, when asked how he was going to avoid family separation and mass deportation, said, we're going to deport the kids, too. 
 
Now, that is the kind of thing I had in mind when I said that Trump will take the measure of the Senate. If they don't say no to things like Matt Gaetz and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard, will they try to stop him even from deporting U.S. citizens as part of mass deportation? 
 
You know, this is happening very quickly. The consequences are enormous and the choices the Senate has to make in the next few weeks are really going to resound through his presidency. 
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Ron Brownstein, always appreciate your analysis. Many thanks for joining us. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Thanks for having me. 
 
CHURCH: Donald Trump has long used migrant crime to outline his deportation policy with the murderer of Lakin Reilly remaining a crucial case among his MAGA supporters. It's alleged that the 22-year- old nursing student was killed at the University of Georgia by a Venezuelan citizen who entered the U.S. illegally. 
 
New evidence linking the suspect to the crime scene emerged in court on Monday. CNN's Brian Todd reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In a Georgia courtroom, prosecutors have ticked through several pieces of evidence that they say incriminates the man accused of killing 22-year-old Lakin Riley. Riley, a student at the Augusta University College of Nursing, brutally murdered while she was jogging on the University of Georgia campus in February. 
 
Prosecutors have shown images of a man wearing clothes consistent with the defendants, throwing out a jacket with both his and Riley's DNA on it. And they've described Lakin Riley as fighting for her life in her final moments collecting DNA under her fingernails, which they say implicates Jose Ibarra as her killer. 
 
JOEY JAKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: It's damning and it's very compelling. We know that his DNA is under the fingernails of Lake and Riley. Well, how did it get there? And now you see that there are scratches on him. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Ibarra is charged with murder and other crimes connected to Riley's death. He's pleaded not guilty. But this case has become about more than one murder, especially for President-elect Donald Trump. 
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), THEN U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Lakin Riley would be alive today if Joe Biden had not willfully and maliciously eviscerated the borders of the United States and set loose thousands and thousands of dangerous criminals into our country. 
 
ASTEAD HERNDON, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, "THE NEW YORK TIMES": Trump has really used this case to highlight his policy position about mass deportations and about deporting violent criminals specifically. He mentions this case at nearly every rally and for a lot of his supporters it's become a rallying cry. 
 
TRUMP: When I'm re-elected, we will begin removing these criminals, these horrible people from our midst, and we'll end up doing it immediately. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Jose Ibarra is an undocumented migrant from Venezuela. Before Riley's murder, Ibarra had been arrested and released twice in the U.S. Once when he was accused of crossing the border illegally in 2022, and then in New York City last year, when he was charged with acting in a manner to injure a child under 17. 
 
By February of this year, Ibarra was living in Athens, Georgia, where Lake and Riley was killed. Trump spoke about the case again at the Republican National Convention. 
 
TRUMP: I've also met with the wonderful family of Lakin Riley. Yet another American life was stolen by a criminal alien set free by this administration. 
 
TODD (voice-over): President Biden acknowledged Riley's case at the State of the Union address this year, but misstated her first name. JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Lincoln Riley, an innocent young woman who
 
 was killed by an illegal. 
 
TODD (voice-over): The Democrats have blamed Trump for scuttling a bipartisan border security bill earlier this year. Vice President Kamala Harris speaking about that to Fox about three weeks before the election. 
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: If a border security had actually been passed nine months ago, it would be nine months that we would have had more border agents at the border, more support for the folks who are working around the clock trying to hold it all together--  
 
BRETT BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST: Madam Vice President. 
 
HARRIS: -- to ensure that no future harm would occur. 
 <br>[03:35:00]
 
TODD: Analyst Astead Herndon says Donald Trump and his allies could actually get bipartisan support for deportations if they focus those deportations mostly on violent criminals. But if they start targeting all undocumented migrants for deportation, he says the political brushback would likely be much more severe. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: For the first time in nearly seven years, a British prime minister has met with China's president. Next, what happened when Keir Starmer and Xi Jinping got together at the G20? 
 
Plus, pursuing peace in Lebanon, a US envoy arrives in Beirut to try to strike a deal between Hezbollah and Israel. Back with that and more in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: The second and final day of the G20 summit in Rio de Janeiro will begin in the coming hours. Leaders of the world's 20 major economies gathered there to discuss trade, climate change and the state of the world. 
 
On Monday, they issued a joint statement highlighting the suffering caused by the wars in Gaza and Ukraine. They also called for cooperation on climate change, poverty reduction and tax policy. 
 
Chinese President Xi Jinping told the leaders about China's plans to support the global south, also known as developing countries. CNN's Marc Stewart is live in Beijing. He joins us now. Good to see you again, Marc. 
 
So President Xi wasn't the only one raising issues. The U.K. Prime Minister expressed concern to Xi about the sensitive matter of human rights. What can you tell us about that? MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Indeed, Rosemary, as you well know,
 
 the issue of human rights is one of the most fragile issues facing China on the world stage. There are often a lot of discussions behind the scenes with diplomats and in private, but Keir Starmer brought up the issue of human rights in a very public setting on the sidelines of the G20 in Rio with cameras and an audience watching. 
 
Let's take a listen to just some of what the British Prime Minister had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: I'm very pleased that my Foreign Secretary and Foreign Minister Wang met recently and discussed respective concerns including human rights and parliamentary sanctions, Taiwan, South China Sea and our shared interest in Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: And on the topic of Hong Kong, the British Prime Minister brought up the imprisonment of Jimmy Lai. He is a well-known figure in Hong Kong, an activist in Hong Kong's pro-democracy movement, but is now in prison. And the Prime Minister raised questions about his condition as he faces this term. 
 <br>[03:40:08]
 
This is all happening as China is trying to establish itself as a stable player amid the changing landscape in the United States. 
 
Another notable meeting involving President Xi is that between the Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, the two have had a fractured relationship in the past a lot of tension concerning China and COVID that has led to a very strong diplomatic freeze and a lot of tension when it comes to trade between the two nations. 
 
But as we have seen in recent months, that has begun to thaw out. So the feeling is that this relationship is now back on track and we've seen some economic compromise on that front as well. But Rosemary, no question, the G20 itself making news, but also what happens on the sidelines.
 
CHURCH: Alright. Our thanks to Marc Stewart for bringing us that live report from Beijing. 
 
A top U.S. envoy has arrived in Beirut today. According to the Lebanese state news agency, the visit by Amos Hochstein is seen as a sign of progress in ceasefire negotiations between Israel and Hezbollah. Lebanon's Prime Minister says his government is positive about a U.S.-backed proposal to stop the fighting. 
 
Lebanese officials say the plan aims to achieve a 60-day cessation of hostilities as the basis for a lasting ceasefire. It also requires Israeli ground forces, which have been operating in southern Lebanon since September, to withdraw from the country. 
 
David Sanger is a CNN political and national security analyst and the author of "New Cold Wars: China's Rise, Russia's Invasion and America's Struggle to Defend the West." And he joins me now from California. Appreciate you being with us. 
 
DAVID SANGER, CNN POLITICAL AND NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Great to be with you, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: So as Israel continues to strike Lebanon's capital Beirut, ceasefire talks also continue between Hezbollah and Israel. What do you expect to come out of those discussions? 
 
SANGER: Well, I think there's every expectation that there could be a ceasefire reached. But I think the question is when. 
 
There's a good deal of reason to believe that at the end of the Biden administration, Prime Minister Netanyahu is in no mood to give this ceasefire to the exiting president. But instead to make it sort of a gift to the incoming president, President Trump. 
 
So it could be until January before you see this. Now, we don't know the timing, and that sort of depends a bit on where the state of play lies in the politics of Lebanon itself and the politics of Netanyahu's own decision-making. But I think very much he would like to reward President-elect Trump's view that his role is one as the ender of wars. 
 
CHURCH: The problem is that would mean that we would expect war in both Gaza, presumably, and Lebanon until January 20th, essentially. 
 
SANGER: Well in Gaza it's a different situation because there, at least so far, Hamas has indicated no interest in a prisoner swap or ceasefire after the killing of Sinwar, their leader. So I'm not sure that there is a scenario under which that seems possible. 
 
Lebanon's a different issue, and different politics, different geography, and I think there's every likelihood you could get one there fairly quickly, and you don't have the complicating issue of a prisoner swap. 
 
CHURCH: So as we've been discussing in about two months from now, the Biden administration will end and Donald Trump will become the next U.S. president. How will this likely alter the relationship between the United States and Israel and what impact will the new Trump administration likely have on the wars in Gaza and Lebanon if they are both still continuing by the time he takes office? 
 
SANGER: Well let's take the first part of your question Rosemary first which is how will he be different? And I think it's pretty clear from both the appointments that he has made and from his own statements that he's pretty much going to allow the Israelis to do, as he said once, whatever it is they need to do in these two conflicts. 
 <br>[03:44:54] From a Trump administration, you won't see the kind of letter that you saw come out from Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin about a month ago, where they demanded that Israel allow in more aid to the Palestinians or run afoul of congressional legislation that could require a cutoff in weapons. 
 
Now, after they've done their review, they still haven't done a cutoff of weapons, and I doubt they will in the rest of the time that the Biden administration has left, about eight weeks. 
 
But for President-elect Trump, he's made it pretty clear that he does not plan to step in much on behalf of a settlement that creates a two- state solution. He's appointed a new ambassador to Israel, former Governor Huckabee, who has said at various moments that the Palestinians do not exist as a people, that the West Bank, is part of Israel, the list goes on. So it's pretty clear that he has put in a pretty pro-Israeli government, even pro-right-wing Israeli government set of representatives. 
 
CHURCH: And of course it's worth noting that Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is dealing with serious legal problems that have of course been put on hold while his nation is at war on two significant fronts. But what happens to Netanyahu legally once those wars come to an end? 
 
SANGER: Well, one of his concerns about the wars coming to an end is that they will inevitably result in more investigations into why the war happened, what intelligence was ignored, whether or not the Prime Minister's call logs on the morning of October 7th had been altered by aides to better his story about what he was doing, whether or not he ignored evidence of a coming war attack from Hamas. 
 
There are all kinds of questions that would lead to 9/11 style boards of inquiry and as long as he can say that he remains in office and fighting Hamas and Hezbollah and ultimately Iran, he can put those off. 
 
CHURCH: David Sanger, many thanks for joining us and showing your analysis. Always appreciated. 
 
SANGER: Great to be with you. 
 
CHURCH; Young men attending a UFC fight in New York City talked to CNN about their support for Donald Trump and where they get their news these days. We will hear from them next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. Young male voters in the U.S. proved to be a key demographic for Donald Trump in his quest to retake the White House. 
 <br>[03:50:02]
 
Some of his supporters spoke to CNN outside a UFC event at New York City's Madison Square Garden that was also attended by the President- elect. CNN's Donie O'Sullivan has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Are you guys excited for tonight? 
 
UNKNOWN: Of course, bro. Chandler knocking out Oliveira in the second round. Mark my words. 
 
UNKNOWN: Pow, pow, pow! 
 
O'SULLIVAN: How? How?
 
We are here at Madison Square Garden for the UFC with special guest President-elect Donald J. Trump. And we are speaking to some of the young men who helped get Trump elected. 
 
UNKNOWN: Saving our country. I don't got no taxes on my tips now. So thank you Donald Trump, love you, pookie. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: You guys both vote for Trump? 
 
UNKNOWN: Of course. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah? 
 
UNKNOWN: I've been working at the same restaurant for four years. I've been a waiter, I've been a busser, I've been a bar back. You know, I just don't. All the taxes that -- can I curse -- no, I'm going to--  
 
O'SULLIVAN: Oh, curse as much as you would. 
 
UNKNOWN: They (expletive) you up, man. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Where did you get most of your news and information? 
 
UNKNOWN: Most of it through -- 
 
O'SULLIVAN: I know it's not CNN. That's why I'm here. 
 
UNKNOWN: Actually, most of the information I got was from Joe Rogan. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Joe Rogan? 
 
UNKNOWN: Joe Rogan. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: He's a legend, man. Yeah. 
 
UNKNOWN: But mostly, like, social media. If you want me to find out, it's social media. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah. 
 
UNKNOWN: That's what everything -- 
 
O'SULLIVAN: TikTok? 
 
UNKNOWN: Yeah, usually. That's what everything spreads around, man. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah. 
 
UNKNOWN: TikTok's everywhere, man. 
 
UNKNOWN: I don't watch a lot of mainstream stuff. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, where'd you get your news? 
 
UNKNOWN: Like Reddit, a lot of podcasting. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, like who? 
 
UNKNOWN: Joe Rogan. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah. 
 
UNKNOWN: "The Joe Rogan Experience." 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Do you think it was a mistake for Harris not to go on Joe Rogan? 
 
UNKNOWN: Probably. Honestly. I think a long conversational talk is better than a debate. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Right. 
 
UNKNOWN: Honestly. You see how a person actually interacts. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah. 
 
UNKNOWN: I think Trump's good at interacting. Oh no, he doesn't need a script. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: You're a New Yorker? 
 
UNKNOWN: Yes, born and raised. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Nice. 
 
UNKNOWN: Brooklyn, New York. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Right. 
 
UNKNOWN: From the hood. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Did you ever consider voting for Harris? 
 
UNKNOWN: I actually voted for Obama. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: You did? 
 
UNKNOWN: Yeah, that was the last time I ever voted for somebody that's not Trump. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yeah, so -- so what changed? UNKNOWN: My level of thinking. Me not thinking that the police are
 
 above me and white men are above me. And I'm all good about like, yo, we can learn about history and all that stuff, but don't tell me or don't. Don't try to put it in a way that it's like our country is racist. 
 
Our kids are important guys, you know, and if we're not teaching them well, if we're not teaching them about credit, if we're not teaching them about how to get a home eventually, and what we're talking about is racism and, you know, trans and gays, which, like I said, I'm all good. Like, you do what you do. 
 
Just don't force it on poor people. And that's where we're about. Like, as long as you're not forcing it, we're good. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): The power of the alliance between Trump and the UFC was on full display here in Madison Square Garden. 
 
Trump was flanked by Elon Musk, Kid Rock, House Speaker Mike Johnson and some of his new cabinet picks including RFK Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard. 
 
As he made his way into the arena, Trump embraced UFC commentator and the world's most famous podcaster Joe Rogan who endorsed him after Trump appeared on his podcast. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: CNN's Donie O'Sullivan reporting there. 
 
Well, major concerns following a burglary at Britain's Windsor Castle, we will have all the details of what was stolen. That's after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:55:07]
 
CHURCH: A nine-day march that began in New Zealand's north has reached parliament in the capital as thousands rally against a contentious bill that reinterprets a 184-year-old treaty with the indigenous Maori people. 
 
Opponents say it undermines the rights of the Mori who make up a fifth of the population. Proposed by the ACT New Zealand party, the bill is unlikely to be passed into law. 
 
A major security breach on Royal Land after thieves broke into the grounds of Windsor Castle in the U.K. and stole farm vehicles. CNN's Max Foster has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): You would have thought it was one of the most secure compounds in Britain, a base for all the U.K.'s senior royals. But that didn't stop burglars from breaking into Windsor Castle
 
 grounds. Police say thieves entered a farm building on the Crown Estate land late on Sunday October 13th, stealing a pick-up truck and a quad bike before making their escape. 
 
The farm just minutes away from Windsor Castle and from Adelaide Cottage where the Prince and Princess of Wales have a family home and they were likely there that night. 
 
FOSTER: There's no indication that the royal family were targeted or ever in any danger, but the incident does show another security breach surrounding the royals. 
 
Kate and William live on the estate in a cottage during school term time with their children, and they don't live with any staff, so it does raise questions. And for their part, Kensington and Buckingham Palace both say they don't comment on security matters. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): The break-in just days before King Charles and Queen Camilla's long flight to visit Australia and Samoa. The couple weren't at Windsor when the break-in took place. 
 
Incidents like this aren't new, and this one certainly not the most serious. 
 
In 2021, a man broke into Windsor Castle itself, wearing a mask and armed with this weapon, a crossbow. The 19-year-old was hoping to kill Queen Elizabeth II but he was stopped before he could harm her. Still, the incident raising serious concerns about security around the Royal Family. 
 
Max Foster, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And thanks so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Have yourselves a wonderful day. "CNN Newsroom" continues next with Christina Macfarlane in London.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)