Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Philadelphia Eagles Work To Remove Counterfeit Political Ads; Harris Opposes Sale Of U.S. Steel To Japanese Firm; Pope In Indonesia For Start Of 12-Day Trip. Aired 7:30-8a ET

Aired September 03, 2024 - 07:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:30:00]
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  This week federal Judge Tanya Chutkan will hold a hearing in Washington in Donald Trump's election subversion case. It will be the first since the Supreme Court granted the former president broad immunity prompting special counsel Jack Smith to file a revised indictment in that case.
 
CNN's Zach Cohen is joining us now. What can we expect on Thursday when this case comes up?
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER:  Yeah, Sara. We expect Judge Chutkan to offer some clarity on how this case is going to move forward and specifically, how she's going to go about determining whether or not any of the new indictment brought by Jack Smith is covered by the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on presidential immunity. 
 
Now, it won't surprise you to learn that there are still significant disagreements between Jack Smith's team and Donald Trump's lawyers on how this case should proceed and specifically, how the timeline should look going forward. 
 
Jack Smith has not offered any firm dates as far as scheduling goes but he has provided a scheduling narrative or at least a rough timeline that would be more quickly resolved than the one Donald Trump is proposing. Donald Trump is proposing a timeline that could stretch into fall of 2025. 
 
So ultimately, both sides will have their chance to make their case before Judge Chutkan this week and it will be ultimately her decision as to how this case moves forward and when ultimately it could be resolved.
 
SIDNER:  Can you give us some sense of what the sort of key differences are between the original indictment and this current indictment?
 
COHEN:  Yes, Sara. The new indictment really does go out of its way to conform to the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling on presidential immunity by casting Donald Trump as the candidate rather than the former president. That's really the key distinction to try to get around it and conform to the Supreme Court ruling which said Donald Trump wasn't immune from prosecution that could qualify as an official act while he was in office.
 
And it's really in the first line of the introduction. The first change that appears is -- it describes Donald Trump -- the old indictment described Donald Trump as the 45th president and candidate for re-election. The new indictment characterizes him as Trump was a candidate for president at the time of the alleged crime. So really framing this around Trump the candidate.
 
We also see the new indictment really does strip away any reference to Trump's conduct and interactions with government officials and specifically with Department of Justice officials. You'll remember that the first indictment -- a core part of that was Donald Trump's alleged pressure campaign on the Justice Department to help him overturn the 2020 election. One of the co-conspirators in the first indictment was Jeffrey Clark, a former Justice Department official. That no -- the new indictment no longer mentions that element of the alleged crime.
 
And again, it goes out of its way to cast Mike Pence as not the vice president or the former vice president but as the head of the Senate at the time, really trying to separate the distinction between anything Trump could be immune from prosecution for and Trump's role outside of his official acts as president.
 
SIDNER:  Zach Cohen, thank you so much for your reporting this morning for us -- John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  All right. New this morning, unsolicited campaign advice from longtime Democratic operative James Carville in The New York Times, who writes there are three things that Vice President Harris needs to do to beat Donald Trump.
 
Number one, help Trump hurt himself in the debate. Number two, break from President Biden on policy. And number three, display a clear growth mindset from the 2020 Democratic primaries. 
 
With us now, Carville's longtime friend and partner, CNN political commentator and Democratic strategist Paul Begala, and former deputy communications director for Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, Bryan Lanza. 
 
I thought I'd let James sort of produce this segment for us, gentlemen, because this is an interesting roadmap he lays out.
 
Paul first to you on item number one: help Trump hurt himself in the debates. How do you do that if you're Vice President Harris?
 
PAUL BEGALA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR; DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST (via Webex by Cisco):  Well, yeah, give him enough rope to hang himself. I think it's a real sign of confidence that Kamala Harris wants the microphones on all the time. Joe Biden didn't, right? So she's like hey, if he wants to be rude, if he wants to interrupt, that's fine. 
 
Trump is not a likeable guy, let's be honest. His favorable is 25 points underwater -- 25 points. Kamala Harris, in that same poll, three points above water, which is hard to do in this toxic political environment. So people like Kamala; they don't like Donald. Give them the space to confirm what they already think -- that the guy
 
 is -- I don't know, he's kind of not that nice. He's just -- I don't like him. 
 
BERMAN:  So, Bryan --
 
BEGALA:  And I think that's an important part of this thing.
 
BERMAN:  So, Bryan, how does -- how does Trump avoid that in the first debate?
 
BRYAN LANZA, FORMER DEPUTY COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR FOR TRUMP 2016 CAMPAIGN:  Yeah. Listen, he avoids it by delivering a message of what his economic message and his immigration message has been, that he's going to fix it. 
 
He's going to deal with inflation, something that the Biden-Harris administration has basically ignored for nearly 3 1/2 years. He's going to deal with the border, which has been flooded with nearly 15 million illegal aliens that are -- that are sort of sucking at our services. And he's going to highlight those issues.
 
As for whether the mics are on or mics are off -- listen, that debate is settled. If Harris wants the mics on, she could probably say, Mr. President, let's give you two more debates and you have the mics, and President Trump would accept it. My guess is Harris doesn't want more debates because she still has to defend the same crappy record that Joe Biden had to defend in his last debate, and that didn't go so well for him. 
 <br>[07:35:00]
 
BERMAN:  So on -- and that last point, although not using your language, Bryan, Carville writes that Harris should break from President Biden on policy. So, Bryan, I do get a sense that the Trump campaign wants to paint Harris as the incumbent while Harris is, in a way, trying to do the opposite.
 
LANZA:  She can't. I mean, she cannot divorce herself from Joe Biden's administration. She was the one who casted significant votes that led to inflation. She is the one who casted significant votes that helped reverse a lot of these immigration policies. So I understand that the Democrats desire to sort of divorce themselves from Joe Biden's policies. 
 
I think last week I heard that Kamala should not run a policy campaign; she should run it on personality. We recognize that their weaknesses have been their policies for the last 3 1/2 years. And that's what the voters should be talking about because Kamala Harris wants a promotion. She wants a second Joe Biden term but with a little bit push to the left, and that's not where the country is.
 
BERMAN:  So, Paul, your friend James says break from Biden on policy. How big of a break do you do?
 
BEGALA:  It doesn't have to be that big. And she's got to focus on the future. Biden was focusing on the past, and so was Trump. This was the problem. 
 
Seventy-five percent of Americans want change. Neither Joe nor Donald were running on change. Kamala is, and you can see. I mean, I love Bryan. He doesn't know how to react to this. Because now you have a Democrat who is pushing forward. 
 
For example, she's going to save you money at the grocery store by taking on price gougers, which Trump said he would do and, in fact, issued an executive order to do it, but never executed on it. She's going to save you money buying your first home. A new proposal of $25,000 towards your downpayment. She's going to save you money on your cost of health care by taking on big pharma and prescription drugs to lower the cost of insulin and other medications.
 
These are all forward-looking. 
 
And even -- Trump is so wrapped up with pretending that he's still president. He makes his aides and advisers still call him President -- Mr. President. He's always looking backwards. The one thing Trump has never sold -- he had steaks, and vodka, and everything -- he never sold cars because if he did, you'd have a rearview mirror this big and a windshield this big. All he does is look backwards.
 
BERMAN:  That's a good point. I do not think there were any Trump vehicles ever sold by Donald Trump.
 
Paul, not only does James say that Harris needs to break from Biden but, in a way, he says she has to break from herself -- evolve from the 2020 primary Vice President Harris. And in a way, we saw that in her interview -- we saw her try to do that in her interview with Dana when Dana was pressing her on what happened with the fracking thing and Harris just said --
 
BEGALA:  Right.
 
BERMAN:  -- well, I changed in 2020 and basically tried to move on.
 
How effectively has she done that? How much more effectively does she need to do that?
 
BEGALA:  I thought she did a good job in that interview with Dana. Dana pressed her. That was her job. The vice president did her job.
 
Look, she represented the Bay Area as a prosecutor and then the state of California. Not a lot of fracking in the San Francisco Bay. But then she's had 3 1/2 years where she was the vice president of Oklahoma, and the vice president of Texas, and the vice president of Pennsylvania. And she should lean into this and use this to attack Trump, right?
 
If you want someone who doesn't listen and doesn't learn, I've got a guy for you and it's Donald Trump, OK? He's been against -- he's been very consistent. He's always been soft on Putin and hell on women, OK? That's where he is.
 
I listen and learn and change. Yes, I think fracking is now an important part of our energy as we move toward energy dominance under the Democratic presidency. So embrace that and then turn and attack Trump for a guy who never listens, never learns, and never adapts because he's stuck in the past.
 
BERMAN:  So, Bryan, what about that? How -- what does Donald Trump say if Vice President Harris says you know what, I've learned, I've changed?
 
LANZA:  She's lying. I mean, she said her values are San Francisco values. You know, Paul -- listen, I come from California. I've run campaigns in California. I've won statewide in California as Republican. And I can tell you one thing -- San Francisco values are not Midwest values, they're not Michigan values, they're not Wisconsin values, and they're certainly not Pennsylvania values. 
 
Those values wanted to shut down oil. Those values want to shut down fracking -- and they don't care at the cost. 
 
And if you look at what Kamala Harris said during her press conference -- or during her interview with Dana Bash, who did an excellent job -- at least I felt she did -- she didn't even answer the question directly about fracking. She said she's defending her position that she said in the debate in 2020, which was the VP debate where in that debate herself she said Joe Biden will not support -- will not -- will not end fracking. 
 
So her position is clear. She's trying to lie. She's trying to have it both ways. We see the lawyer in her come out because she doesn't want to answer the question. But we should never be mistaken what her values are. Those are San Francisco values which want to shut down American energy and American energy independence. 
 
BERMAN:  Well, it is after Labor Day. We are in the sprint to the debate -- one week from today.
 
LANZA:  Let's go.
 
BERMAN:  Paul Begala, Bryan Lanza, nice to see you both. Thank you -- Kate.
 
LANZA:  Thank you.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  So the Philadelphia Eagles are pushing back this morning against fake ads that have appeared around the city -- fake ads claiming that Vice President Kamala Harris is the "official candidate of the Philadelphia Eagles." 
 <br>[07:40:00]
 
CNN's Coy Wire has more on this. This -- the whole -- the whole concern over fake ads has gone like a whole different left turn when it comes to this one. What are you hearing about this?
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORT ANCHOR:  Yeah, and all over Philadelphia, Kate. This recurring theme of having to question the political messages we see, whether they're endorsements by celebrities or entertainers infiltrating the sports world. 
 
A series of fake political ads popping up on bus tops around Philadelphia depicting Democratic presidential candidate and VP Kamala Harris in an Eagles' helmet, calling her the team's official candidate. A web address leads to the team's official site to a page that encourages voter registration, but that page does not endorse any particular candidate.
 
Now, the Eagles posted on social yesterday that they were aware of the counterfeit ads being circulated and were working to have them removed. 
 
The media company responsible for the advertising on the bus shelters said they were vandalized and that people occasionally find a way to unlock the ad box to insert unauthorized copy.
 
All right. Now, we had a huge upset in college football last night when the favorite for the College Football Playoffs this season, number 10 FSU, taken down by unranked Boston College. The Eagles crushing the Seminoles hopes led by new head man, former NFL head coach Bill O'Brien. He has his squad looking strong. 
 
Quarterback Thomas Castellanos rumbling for a touchdown and 73 of their 263 yards rushing. He also had two passing TDs. And FSU, just 21 yards on the ground. And quarterback DJ Uiagalelei, intercepted by Max Tucker, completed just 50 percent of his passes. 
 
Florida State now 0-2 following their previous loss to Georgia Tech. BC wins 28-13 with Coach O'Brien leading his team to a massive first win of their season that had FSU fans headed for the exits early.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE NORVELL, HEAD COACH, FLORIDA STATE:  I'm sick to how this -- how the season started. Obviously, tonight, I failed in preparing the team to be able to go out and respond tonight. And I apologize to our fans. I apologize to everybody associated with the program. I mean, that was extremely disappointing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  All right, let's go to Dodgers' superstar Shohei Ohtani. He stole three bases against the Diamondbacks last night. That brings his total to 46 on the season. He also has 44 home runs.
 
The MLB has been tracking homers and steals since the late 1800s and we've never seen the combination of speed and power we're seeing from Shohei. He could become the first player ever to record a 50-50 season and he's got 20 games to do it.
 
The Dodgers are stacked. Teoscar Hernandez went five for five at the plate. And Freddie Freeman says don't forget about me, y'all. He hit two home runs. 
 
L.A. has the best record in baseball, and they added to it after an 11-6 win over Arizona. Kate, back to you. 
 
BOLDUAN:  It's great to watch some baseball. It is even greater to see that college football is back in action. And Michigan won on Saturday, too. Just -- I know that was an oversight in your reporting, but that's fine. That's fine. We can get to that.
 
Thanks, Coy. It's great to see you.
 
WIRE:  You got it.
 
BOLDUAN:  Sara.
 
SIDNER:  I just wanted to do the L.A. --
 
BOLDUAN:  I was waiting for it.
 
SIDNER:  -- for the Dodgers. Yay, Dodgers. Go, boys, go.
 
All right. New this morning, why Vice President Harris is pushing back for the first time over the proposed $14 billion sale of U.S. Steel to a foreign entity.
 
And it was a whale of a time as an ocean excursion gave some snorkelers a story they will never forget.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  All of a sudden someone was in the air on top of a freaking whale.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[07:48:23]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  U.S. Steel is an historic American company, and it is vital for our nation to maintain strong American steel companies. And I couldn't agree more with President Biden U.S. Steel should remain American-owned and American-operated. And I will always have the back of America's steelworkers.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER:  This morning, Vice President Kamala Harris joining the growing list of politicians opposed to the sale of U.S. Steel to a foreign entity. Nippon Steel, Japan's biggest steelmaker, is poised to take over U.S. Steel in a deal worth $14 billion but the Justice Department still needs to sign off on it for the deal to go through.
 
CNN's Matt Egan is joining us now with more on this. This is a -- this is a huge, huge sale and you do have a lot of workers very concerned of what it means to them.
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER:  Yeah, absolutely, Sara. I mean, this deal has turned into quite the political football. And I guess I'm not shocked. I mean, we are talking about a foreign takeover of an iconic American manufacturing company during an election year. It's a symbol of blue-collar jobs and it is based in the must-win battleground state of Pennsylvania. 
 
And so, yes, with Vice President Harris going to the Steel City, right -- the home of the Pittsburgh Steelers -- to voice her opposition -- this deal does look like it is in doubt here. 
 
And look, it was controversial from the moment that Nippon Steel came out with this $14 billion takeover deal. To try to get ahead of some of these concerns, the company said that U.S. Steel was going to keep its storied name and keep its Pittsburgh headquarters. 
 <br>[07:50:00]
 
But Nippon Steel has had to delay the closing because this deal needs to get signed off on by not just the Justice Department but by CFIUS, right? That's the interagency committee that examines foreign investment in the United States. 
 
And U.S. Steel, as Vice President Harris noted -- it's such a historic company, right? And when it was founded 123 years ago it was the biggest company on the planet. Its steel went into everything that made America a superpower, right? Highways, and bridges, and appliances, and cars.
 
But look, this is a company that's been in decline not for years but for decades, right? Consider that at its peak during World War II it employed over 300,000 people. Today, 22,000 people. So it is a fraction of the size. It once produced 30+ million tons of steel a year. Now it's less than half of that.
 
And now, Sara, the question is whether or not this company is going to come under foreign ownership or if regulators will spike the deal.
 
SIDNER:  Kamala Harris obviously not the only person who is saying look, we want this to stay in the U.S. There -- this is a bipartisan issue, isn't it?
 
EGAN:  Oh, yeah. So this is definitely a bipartisan backlash, right? President Biden came out in March during his own visit to Pittsburgh to voice his opposition. We've heard from Rust Belt Democrats, including Sherrod Brown and John Fetterman. They quickly came out against the deal. 
 
But the Republican ticket is against it, too.
 
SIDNER:  Yeah.
 
EGAN:  Former President Trump says that he does not want this deal to happen. J.D. Vance, the senator from Ohio and the VP nominee -- he's against it. So is Josh Hawley, Marco Rubio. Rubio, of course, was a contender to be a vice president as well.
 
What's unusual here though is not that a foreign takeover is getting such scrutiny. It's that it's a foreign takeover from a U.S. ally.
 
SIDNER:  Right.
 
EGAN:  Experts told me that even -- not even during the '80s and '90s when there were so many trade tensions between the U.S. and Japan did a deal from a Japanese company get spiked. 
 
And I talked to Michael Leiter, who is a partner at Skadden, Arps, and he told me this morning that it is difficult if not impossible to identify a national security risk that justifies opposing this merger. But he said it's pretty easy to see the political risk here.
 
SIDNER:  Right.
 
EGAN:  And he said it's regrettable that that's what's driving this.
 
One last point. We reached out to U.S. Steel and the company's CEO. They pointed out that Nippon has pledged $1.3 billion of investments to refurbish two plants in Pennsylvania and Indiana. And he argued that the company and the industry -- they'll be stronger because of this deal. He said, "The bottom line is these are investments in the future of American steelmaking and the employees, families, and communities that the rely on it."
 
But it's an open question right now, Sara, whether or not this deal is going to survive this amount of political opposition.
 
SIDNER:  The timing of the deal is probably the most important part of all of this --
 
EGAN:  Absolutely, it is.
 
SIDNER:  -- because it's during a political year.
 
Thank you so much, Matt Egan.
 
EGAN:  Thank you, Sara.
 
SIDNER:  Appreciate it. Great reporting -- Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  Donald Trump is facing a new court battle today, this time over his campaign using the "Hold On, I'm Comin'.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAM &amp; DAVE, SOUL AND R&amp;B DUO:  Singing "Hold On I'm Comin'."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN:  So, Isaac Hayes co-wrote the hit for the duo Sam and Dave. Now Hayes' estate is suing for $3 million and also trying to force Donald Trump to stop using the song at his rallies. CNN's Ryan Young is outside federal court in Atlanta where a hearing is set to take place about all of this. What are you learning, and what are you hearing from Donald Trump and his team on this one?
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, let me just say this. First of all, Kate, it's a great song. I understand why somebody would want to play it. Back in the day, you had movies tell you every hero needed theme music. I wonder what you'd walk out to when the show started. 
 
But the Isaac Hayes family is, like, no more. They don't want Donald Trump walking out to this music and holding on to it any longer. They've been saying for quite some time that they wanted Donald Trump to stop playing this. They've asked. They've written letters. And now it's going to be in federal court today. 
 
In fact, Isaac Hayes Jr. has been doing a media blitz all across this country to make people understand how badly they don't want this music played. 
 
But take a listen to the song for some folks who may not remember all the lyrics and that iconic beat.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAM &amp; DAVE:  Singing "Hold On I'm Comin'."
 
Just hold on, I'm comin' Hold on, I'm comin' I'm on my way, your lover If you get cold, yeah, I will be your cover
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG:  So basically what we've been told is that Isaac Hayes Jr. and the family want this song to be stopped playing immediately. There are other artists who have asked Donald Trump to stop playing music at this campaign events as well from Bruce Springsteen to Beyonce, to Celine Dion. The list goes on and on. The reason why is because they didn't want the music associated with that campaign. 
 
And so, Isaac Hayes Jr. plans to be out here today at noon to have a conversation with the public just about why the family has taken this step, and they also want payment for all the times the song has been played -- 134 times -- after they made this notice to the Donald Trump campaign -- Kate.
 <br>[07:55:06]
 
BOLDUAN:  Well, they're saying -- they say it's has been played 134 times since they've made notice of it. So let's see what happens today.
 
It's good to see you, Ryan. Thank you so much.
 
YOUNG:  Absolutely. BOLDUAN:  Oh, there you are. Hi.
 
BERMAN:  Uncomfortably close. 
 
BOLDUAN:  Wow.
 
BERMAN:  Uncomfortably close.
 
BOLDUAN:  I missed you, too. 
 
BERMAN:  I'm right here. 
 
All right. This morning, the ground is shifting outside Los Angeles literally. The land movement in Rancho Palos Verdes, which residents say is getting worse, has caused power outages and more. Residents say they can actually see the ground move and they're urging the governor to take action. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI NOUSHKAM, RANCHO PALOS VERDES RESIDENT:  Please, help us. Why do you think it's OK to ignore us? We have lost everything, and we are not rich. We are working professionals.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  Officials warn that people need to be prepared to leave in a moment's notice if conditions worsen.
 
Joey Chestnut shattering his own world record. He ate 83 hot dogs in 10 minutes. He defeated his rival Takeru Kobayashi in their first head-to-head meeting in 15 years. After the win, Chestnut praised his competitor, saying "He drives me. We weren't always nice to each other, but I love the way we push each other to be our best."
 
Clearly, Chestnut went into this competition empty and loose.
 
New video shows the moment a man was launched into the air by a whale. A group of snorkelers got too close to a pod of humpbacks near Australia's Gold Coast.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  All of a sudden there was commotion behind us. And we turned around and someone -- we didn't know at the time who it was, but someone was up on top of the tail of a whale.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This wasn't the first time this happened to him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yeah.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But he was very -- like, very ecstatic about it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It was like a relatively gentle experience from what we could tell.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  No humans or whales were harmed in the filming of this video -- Sara.
 
SIDNER:  That was really wild. I loved that.
 
All right. He may be 87 and using a wheelchair but the next two weeks he will be busy -- he will be very, very busy. That's Pope Francis as he begins his 12-day marathon tour of Southeast Asia. The Pope touched down in Jakarta, Indonesia today and his visit is meant to grow and strengthen the Catholic Church's presence across all of Asia.
 
The Pope is set to meet with Indonesia's president and other officials on Wednesday before he continues his trip to three other countries.
 
Joining me now is Father Edward Beck. Thank you so much for being here. It's been a while since I've seen you.
 
FATHER EDWARD BECK, ROMAN CATHOLIC PRIEST, RELIGION AND FAITH COMMENTATOR:  It's great to see you.
 
SIDNER:  Happy that you're here.
 
BECK:  Thank you.
 
SIDNER:  First of all, what is the significance of the Pope traveling to Asia, a place that you don't always hear has a huge number of Catholics?
 
BECK:  Right, and he's 87. It's the longest trip of his papacy. So you wonder why make the effort? Well, it's one of the most religiously diverse areas of the whole globe and he's been really about interreligious dialogue. 
 
And so his first stop, as you mentioned, Jakarta, is a vastly large Muslim population.
 
SIDNER:  Yeah.
 
BECK:  There's only three percent Catholic there. So he really wants to start this interreligious dialogue because he believes that's the only way we get together -- that we communicate. And so he's meeting at a mosque, but this mosque is so interesting because it's right next to the Catholic Cathedral and they've what they call a tunnel of friendship between the mosque and the Catholic Church. 
 
SIDNER:  Wow.
 
BECK:  And so they're hoping, even with this wheelchair, that he can visit this tunnel of friendship because it's so symbolic for what he's trying to do with interreligious dialogue. 
 
So that's really one of the reasons he's going, but there are a few others that maybe we can talk about.
 
SIDNER:  What are some of the things that the Pope really plans to highlight as he goes through this? Obviously, one of them is this relationship building between religions. Instead of fighting, let's try something different. 
 
BECK:  Well, as you know, he's really big on environmental concerns. And he's now in Jakarta. It's the fastest-sinking city in the world due to climate change. It also is one of the most polluted cities in the world. So they're worried about actually his lungs there considering he has 1 1/2 lungs. 
 
SIDNER:  Right.
 
BECK:  And so he wants to talk about "Laudato si," his encyclical on the environment. So he will highlight that. 
 
SIDNER:  Yeah.
 
BECK:  But also -- I mean, the poverty in many of these areas. He's always gone to what he calls the periphery. When he goes to Papau New Guinea after Indonesia you don't get more remote than Papau New Guinea. He's going to a place called Vanimo that they call the most remote diocese in the whole world.
 
SIDNER:  Yes.
 
BECK:  So, I mean, a man of 87 to go to a place of 98 percent humidity and heat -- I mean, it's rather remarkable. But he just believes go to periphery. Go where people are. And there's a Catholic population there that he wants to show up and say even though you may be in a minority you're not forgotten, especially by me.