Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Syria Intensifies Attacks; Syrian Rebels Take Second Largest City in Syria; Four Hostages Including Omer Neutra Pronounced Dead; Michigan and Ohio State Each Fined 100K; The Official White House Christmas Tree. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired December 02, 2024 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:30:00]
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: -- captured Syria's second largest city. Video shows chaos in Aleppo as people scramble in the moments just before an explosion. Just a warning of the video you're about to watch is graphic.
 
Unbelievable. New pictures also appear to show rebel fighters with tanks that were abandoned by Syrian forces. Retired General Wesley Clark joins us now. He's the former NATO supreme allied commander. General Clark, what are your thoughts on what looks like just a tinderbox in Syria right now? What's next, do you think?
 
GEN. WESLEY CLARK (RET.), FORMER NATO SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER:  So, I think we're going to see continued back and forth struggle between the Turkish-backed forces and the Syrian forces. I think Russia will weigh in increasingly. Russia can't afford to lose Bashar Assad as an ally. It can't afford to lose its footprint in the region. And Russia is going to commit additional resources there.
 
Turkey wants to end this with a little more terrain in Northwest Syria and greater credibility. So, I think this is going to go on for a while.
 
ACOSTA:  I mean, the Russians are already stretched pretty thin in Ukraine. What are your thoughts on whether Bashar al-Assad is in danger of losing some power here if this continues in this direction?
 
CLARK:  Bashar can't afford to lose Aleppo. It's the economic cultural center of Syria. So, he's going to throw whatever he's got into this fight. He doesn't have Hezbollah as an ally. Iran is weakened. Russia is under pressure. But I think you're going to see a long, tough fight around Aleppo.
 
So, it's not clear that Bashar is going to give up on it. He's not going to fall back. He's not going to peacefully go into the night. This is going to be a really intense, painful struggle.
 
ACOSTA:  And, General Clark, as you know, U.S. troops are in the region. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan addressed this issue. Here's what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JAKE SULLIVAN, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER:  At the moment we believe that our forces who are stationed in Syria to fight ISIS are not at proximate risk because they are in a different part of the country from where this particular offensive is taking place. But they are under a different kind of threat. They are still under a threat from Iran and the Shia-backed militia groups in Iraq and Syria.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  Yes, General, how much danger is there for U.S. troops in that region right now?
 
CLARK:  I don't think there's a great danger right now but I do think that what's going to happen is this fighting will spread and U.S. allies, the YPG, the friendly Kurds who have been working with the United States are definitely a target of Turkey. And so, if Turkey's successful in -- and its forces are successful, they're going to turn on the YPG and this will involve U.S. interests. So, there's risk there.
 
And Jim, remember at the same time, what we're not covering, but what's actually happening in the former Soviet Republic of Georgia, 30 some odd years, 35 years, an independent country now turning away from the west under a new political party and lots of protests in the street. And I can assure you this really has Russia's attention.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes, that's another unstable situation. You're absolutely right. We'll continue to follow that as well. General Clark, thanks for bringing that up. Appreciate the time. Thank you.
 
All right. This just in President Biden has released a statement on American-Israel hostage Omer Neutra. One of seven American citizens held in Gaza, four including Neutra have been pronounced dead. The president writing in part, Jill and I are devastated and outraged to learn of the death of Omer Neutra, an American citizen whose body Hamas has apparently been holding on to since they killed him during their brutal terrorist attack on October 7th. To all the families of those still held hostage, we see you, we are with you, and I will not stop working. The president goes on to say to trying to get the kids back home where they belong.
 
The 21-year-old was serving as a tank platoon commander in the IDF at the time of the 2023 attacks. The IDF says his body is still being held in Gaza. And I spoke to his parents just a few days ago. Here's what they said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ORNA NEUTRA, OMER NEUTRA'S MOTHER:  We know that both President Biden and President-Elect Trump want the war to end, want the hostages back. So, we are very, very hopeful, and that is what we are asking, that they work together now, at this moment, and not wait until Inauguration Day to get it done, to bring the hostages home.
 
RONEN NEUTRA, OMER NEUTRA'S FATHER:  We're heading into the holiday season. Hanukkah this year is the same day of Christmas. We sure hope in the next few weeks good news is going to come about, and we'll be able to celebrate the holiday with our dear ones.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  85 percent of the targets to Shakir completed. This is behind Cooper who brought it in. Pitched it back to Allen, who's going to go. And get in.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMANPOUR:  Let it snow indeed. The red-hot Buffalo Bill storming past the San Francisco 49ers last night in a literal snowstorm. It was just coming down. Josh Allen doing it all and becoming the first quarterback in NFL history to run, pass, and catch a touchdown in the same game. He was unbelievable. The Bills cruised to a 35 to 10 win clinching the AFC east for a fifth straight year and celebrated with snow angels at midfield. That was also a lot of fun too.
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
Meanwhile, in college football, violent incidents overshadowed a heated rivalry weekend like this scene in Columbus, Ohio. I'm sure you saw some of this all-out chaos following the biggest rivalry of them all. Michigan player up here to try to plant a flag at midfield after the Wolverines' upset a victory over the Ohio State Buckeyes. Police and security had to separate the two teams and the broadcast even caught some players coughing and wiping their eyes reportedly from pepper spray.
 
Joining me now is Rachel Nichols, the host of Showtime's "Headliners." Rachel, I suppose the NCAA is going to have to do a lot about this to make sure this doesn't happen again. Unreal.
 
RACHEL NICHOLS, HOST, SHOWTIME'S "HEADLINERS WITH RACHEL NICHOLS": Yes. I mean, they've already levied each team a $100,000 fine. They say that's the end of it for them. Obviously, there will be sort of blowback and repercussions throughout the season, especially for Ohio State, just in losing this game.
 
I mean, Michigan was more than a 20-point underdog here. And now there's questions about whether the coach should be fired. Meanwhile, they were the number two team in the country. So, this knocks them out of the Big Ten Championship. You know, we'd have to see where they go in the playoffs. But the fight itself, it was just sort of stunning because it was so big, masses of people.
 
And then you had -- on one side, you had guys punching each other, and several of the players emerged bloody. And on the other side, you had guys who were shaking hands still. They didn't even know that was going on the other side of the field.
 
ACOSTA:  Oh, my God.
 
NICHOLS:  And in some ways, Jim, we can expect this. This has been one of the biggest rivalries in sports overall. And it started actually with a war between these two areas back in 1835, Michigan and Ohio were fighting a war over a piece of land that was on the border between them and shortly afterward is when this rivalry started. So, I guess we're lucky it's just pepper spray.
 
ACOSTA:  But I just wonder -- yes. I mean, the pepper spray thing, that is mind boggling. But also, I mean, should players be trying to plant a flag in the middle of the opposing team's field? It just seems like the after-game antics, like the fans rushing the field and -- I mean, it just seems like this is out of control. And NCAA has to do something here.
 
NICHOLS:  Yes. I mean, the rushing the field has really become a problem. Players have gotten hurt. Fans have gotten hurt. Planting the flag, I mean, look, that in itself is a somewhat harmless gesture. I read this morning someone saying that people who live in a place like Columbus should not be upset about someone planting a field on land that does not belong to them. So, we will just have to see where this goes in the future.
 
ACOSTA:  And, you know, I do want to go back and talk about the snowball last night. I mean, this was so much fun. I mean, yes, that was the rough side of football over the weekend in college football. But I mean, this video last night out of Buffalo -- 
 
NICHOLS:  It's incredible.
 
ACOSTA:  -- is just unreal. I heard -- 
 
NICHOLS:  He can't even keep his footing.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. And I heard Cris Collinsworth say he's never played in snow like this before. It's rare when you see these kinds of games, but your thoughts? I mean, it was just a joy to watch. It was like watching little kids.
 
NICHOLS:  Yes. I mean, it was backyard football. I mean, the guys are sliding around. You felt like there should have been the Benny Hill music on that last play with Josh Allen. I mean, what he did was incredible. He didn't even intend to get the ball back. He just went over because he said he thought he actually did a bad job lateralling it and he wanted to give Amari Cooper some backup, and Amari Cooper ends up shoveling him the ball, as you see, and he slides on that snow right into the end zone. He becomes the first quarterback in NFL history to have scored a touchdown, caught a touchdown, and rushed in a game. I mean, it's incredible.
 
ACOSTA:  And your thought -- I mean, our Wolf Blitzer is probably at home loving all of this right now because he's a huge Bills fan. But I mean, do you think -- every year we think that the Bills might do it, go all the way to the Super Bowl and then they fall apart in the playoffs, but they look really good this year. And I'm saying this as a Commanders' fan who would rather be us, but the Bills look great. NICHOLS:  Yes, yes. I mean, look, it takes a few times. Normally, the Buffalo Bills, as we know, have a history where they did reach the Super Bowl and didn't win and didn't win. And we thought, oh, they're going to do the next one. So, it's not ensured that this version of the bills will reach the Super Bowl at some stage, but they sure look like it. And sometimes you really do in sports have to get knocked out in the playoffs a few times to have that depth of understanding about what it takes. And most teams eventually breakthrough in that position. We'll have to see for the Bills.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. I played high school football. I wasn't very good, but looking at that video last night of the snow in Buffalo, I just wanted to get back out there and just go at it. But anyway -- 
 
NICHOLS:  Jim, my mission now -- you've given me my mission, is to find me high school video of you. So, that's good, next time I come on.
 
ACOSTA:  Oh, God. Please don't. Yes, on the bench, warming the bench was mostly what I was doing. Rachel Nichols, great to see you. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it.
 
NICHOLS:  Thanks so much.
 
ACOSTA:  Coming up, a symbol of resilience for North Carolina. Next, I'll speak to the owner of a Christmas tree farm, whose tree was chosen as the official White House Christmas tree. That's coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
ACOSTA:  New this morning, a season of peace and light. That's this year's White House holiday theme. And here's the first look at some of the decorations. Simply spectacular. The tree you can see in the middle of the carousel came from Cartner's Christmas Tree Farm in Avery County, North Carolina. Here's the farm a few weeks ago when White House staff went there. Hurricane Helene wiped out thousands of the farm's trees and devastated communities across the region.
 
Now, one of the farms surviving Fraser firs is in the White House. And joining us now is Sam Cartner. He's the farm owner. His daughter, Margaret, is also with us as well. And I'm a big Frasier fir fan. So, I -- one of these days I got to get out there to the Christmas tree farm and check it out.
 
But, Sam, I'll start with you first. What does all this mean to you to have the Christmas tree there in the blue room of the White House? It just looks beautiful.
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
SAM CARTNER, OWN FARM THAT SUPPLIED WHITE HOUSE CHRISTMAS TREE:  Our family is very honored to represent all the Christmas tree growers across the United States, and especially those in western North Carolina that have endured such a horrible and horrific event. And we're very honored to have a tree that is a real symbol of peace and love and joy for families across America. We really are honored to be that symbol.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. And we're just looking at the video right now of how it looks and it's just spectacular. And Margaret, I understand you're going to the White House. Is that later today for a visit to check things out? Can you tell us about that?
 
MARGARET CARTNER, CARTNER CHRISTMAS THREE FARM:  Yes, we get to go this evening. We all get to go with the family. They're here local right now.
 
ACOSTA:  Oh, great.
 
M. CARTNER:  And we get to see the tree decorated. We got to visit last week, but the -- we had just brought the tree in. And so, it'll be exciting to get to see how they've chosen to decorate it and kind of the unveiling for us.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes, it's your tree. You should get a chance to go to the White House too, my goodness. And, Sam, let me talk to you because, I mean, we covered Hurricane Helene extensively on this program, on this network. We're just so glad that people in that part of the country, which is a beautiful part of the country, are getting back on their feet. How has the recovery process been for you?
 
S. CARTNER:  For our farm, it's been -- we've been blessed and did not have the horrific events some other farms and other communities had, you know, where they lost homes and family members. We lost trees and we had to do a lot of work to get our farm roads ready for harvest. And -- but we were able to recover and we're pretty much through harvest or getting close to the end of harvest, and our thoughts and prayers go to those families that had a much rougher time during the flood and trying to help them. And we have to thank all the people that donated their time and money and effort for the recovery effort. And we see that as a blessing in our area and we'd like to thank them publicly. Yes.
 
ACOSTA:  Absolutely. And, Margaret, it must mean something to you as well to know that that people are continuing to think about Western North Carolina and what you all have gone through to have your Christmas tree. There is a reminder that the recovery process is still going on.
 
M. CARTNER:  Yes, it definitely is. They're small towns. You know, they are hearty people and they're community driven and it's nice to know that the country is still thinking about them and sending them resources. And they'll use them resourcefully.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. Absolutely. All right. Well, we're all pulling for you to continue recovering there in Western North Carolina and the tree is just simply beautiful. You picked a good one for the White House. Thanks so much. Sam and Margaret Cartner, thank you very much. We appreciate it. Happy holidays.
 
M. CARTNER:  Thank you. Happy holidays. ACOSTA:  All right.
 
S. CARTNER:  Thank you.
 
ACOSTA:  Merry Christmas. All right. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Moana.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Little Sis.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Big sis. You were gone forever.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It was three days.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Where are we going?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Before -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  The biggest box office winner this weekend, "Moana 2," the adorable animated sequel that now has the highest grossing five-day opening, bringing in -- I mean get this, $221 million dollars, that is a Thanksgiving weekend record. But add in "Wicked" and "Gladiator II", and you have 3 blockbusters bringing in an estimated $420 million. That is just one five-day weekend. Just blowing past the previous Thanksgiving weekend record set in 2018.
 
I want to bring in my friend Pamela Brown. Is taking taken over the next hour. And I mean, these -- I haven't seen any of the movies yet. I'm dying to see "Gladiator II." My mom was a huge "Wizard of Oz" fan growing up. So, I guess I need to see "Wicked." But are you interested in any of these films, Pam? What do you think?
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR:  I was going to see all of them last week, and then I just ate too much, Jim, and couldn't get off the couch. So, I'm hoping to do it this week. I can't wait to see "Gladiator II." "Gladiator" is my favorite movie, which my husband says is really weird. I don't know.
 
ACOSTA:  Wow.
 
BROWN:  But I can't wait to see "Gladiator II." Total mom fail that I haven't taken my kids to see "Moana 2" yet, because they love Moana. And of course, "Wicked." You know, my daughter can't wait to see that. So, big plans. Big plans this week to go to the movies. We're going to make it happen.
 
ACOSTA:  Definitely. And what's cool about this, it kind of reminds me of when "Top Gun: Maverick" came out because that sort of brought people back to the movies. And it just feels like people are going back to the movies, which is great because watching stuff at home is a different experience. And I too loved "Gladiator." That was an epic film when that came out. Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix. I mean, just incredible.
 
BROWN:  OK. So, you don't think it's too weird that I love "Gladiator" as my favorite movie, right?
 
ACOSTA:  It's a little weird, but I don't know. I mean, you know, men in loincloths, wrestling tigers. I mean, you know, I guess I get it, you know.
 
BROWN:  It is a little weird. And also, I was like a little girl when it came out and I -- it's my favorite movie since. I don't know what's going on there. But listen, we both love it and can't wait to see "Gladiator II." We'll have to trade notes once we see that one as well, Jim.
 
ACOSTA:  Absolutely. And "Wicked's" got the high rotten tomato score.
 
BROWN:  That's right.
 
ACOSTA:  So, I mean it must be good. So, all right. Have a good one, Pam.
 
BROWN:  Lots to do. Thanks, Jim.
 
ACOSTA:  See you at the movies.
 
BROWN:  Hi, everyone. See you at the movies. I'm Pamela Brown in Washington and you're live in the CNN Newsroom.
 
He has vowed to dismantle the FBI once he's sworn in. And today, we're learning -- 
 <br>[11:00:00]