Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Trump Wins Big in Iowa, DeSantis Beats Haley for 2nd; Haley Hoping for Surge in New Hampshire. Aired 6-6:30a ET

Aired January 16, 2024 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is the first, because the big night is going to be in November when we take back our country. 
 <br>[06:00:44]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): A huge victory for Donald Trump in the first contest of the 2024 presidential election. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. 2, Ron DeSantis, and then just behind that, Nikki Haley. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The top tier of candidates did not go after him on his greatest vulnerabilities. 
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: In spite of all of that that they threw at us, we've got our ticket punched out of Iowa. 
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: They really see South Carolina as the next target. Do they have enough money to continue going forward? 
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Underestimate me, because that's always fun. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She's on to New Hampshire. 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Potential opportunity for Nikki Haley. It's easier said than done. 
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR (voice-over): It's not a race for second. It's a race for relevancy. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Donald Trump's grasp of the Republican Party is as firm as it's ever been. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There may be three tickets out of Iowa, but Donald Trump's is first class, and Nikki Haley's and Ron DeSantis's are in steerage.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR: A good Tuesday morning, everyone. It's the top of the hour. I'm Phil Mattingly with Poppy Harlow in New York. 
 
The race for the White House now heading to New Hampshire. That's where our Kasie Hunt is, after flying overnight. 
 
Donald Trump overnight dominating the Iowa caucuses. It was a historic landslide for a Republican caucus, cementing his clear status as the GOP frontrunner as we head into the New Hampshire primary. 
 
It's an astonishing political comeback for an ex-president who left the White House in disgrace, is currently facing dozens of criminal charges and potential prison time. 
 
Trump won by an unprecedented margin, and Ron DeSantis edged out Nikki Haley for a distant second-place finish. In his victory speech, Trump act acted as if the race was already done, congratulating DeSantis and Haley after months of relentlessly attacking them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TRUMP: I want to congratulate Ron and Nikki for having a good -- a good time together. We're all having a good time together. And I think they both actually did very well. 
 
They're very smart -- very smart people, very capable people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: This is really interesting. CNN's entrance polling shows Trump's popularity is just enormous, in spite of his legal problems. 
 
Sixty-five percent of Iowa caucus goers say they think Trump is still fit for the presidency, even if he is convicted of a crime. 
 
We have team coverage this hour in Iowa, New Hampshire. Our political analysts standing by to break down how big Trump's victory was and what this all means for the race moving forward. 
 
Let's start with Kylie Atwood. She is live in Des Moines. 
 
Good morning to you. He wanted to be dominant, and he certainly was. Trump, I mean. 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Poppy. I mean, topping more than 50 percent of the vote here in Iowa for Trump. It was a commanding and historic win. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): An overwhelming victory for Donald Trump. 
 
TRUMP: We want to thank the great people of Iowa. 
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): The former president winning the Iowa caucuses by a considerable margin solidifying his status as the frontrunner of the 2024 Republican presidential nomination. Speaking from his Iowa headquarters, Trump gave a rare message of unity. 
 
TRUMP: This is time now for everybody, our country to come together. We want to come together, whether it's Republican or Democrat, or liberal or conservative. 
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Florida Governor Ron DeSantis narrowly beat out Nikki Haley for second place. 
 
DESANTIS: In spite of all of that that they threw at us, everyone against us, we've got our ticket punched out of Iowa. 
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): A DeSantis senior campaign official says he will stay in the race. 
 
DESANTIS: People want to have hope for this country's future, and that's what we represent. We represent a chance to reverse the madness that we've seen in this country. 
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Despite placing third, Nikki Haley predicts that this race will come down to her and Trump, based on recent positive polling out of New Hampshire. 
 
HALEY: When you look at how we're doing in New Hampshire, in South Carolina, and beyond, I can safely say, tonight Iowa made this Republican primary a two-person race. 
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Haley is continuing her message that the GOP needs a new generation of leadership. 
 <br>[06:05:02]
 
HALEY: Seventy percent of Americans don't want another Trump-Biden rematch. 
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): And entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy suspending his campaign for president after placing a disappointing fourth. He called Trump to offer his endorsement. 
 
VIVEK RAMASWAMY (R), FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We're going to do our part now going forward to make sure that "America first" lives on. To make sure that Donald Trump is successful as the next president of the United States. 
 
ATWOOD (voice-over): Entrance polling providing insights into how Trump locked in his victory. Two-thirds of caucus goers believe that Biden did not legitimately win the 2020 election, despite no evidence of widespread voter fraud. And nearly half of caucus goers say they identify with Trump's MAGA movement. 
 
TRUMP: We have an invasion of millions and millions of people that are coming into our country. 
 
We can't have that. We can't have that. It's not sustainable as a country. It's horrible. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) ATWOOD (on camera): Now, all three candidates will end up in New Hampshire today. Nikki Haley went there late last night. Ron DeSantis is stopping in South Carolina before going to New Hampshire.
 
And Trump, for whom the courthouse has become a central piece of his campaign, he is going to New York. He's going to be there for the E. Jean Carroll civil damages trial, and then he's headed to New Hampshire after that, with the New Hampshire primary just a week from today -- Poppy, Phil. 
 
MATTINGLY: All right. Kylie Atwood from Des Moines. We go over to Manchester. Kasie Hunt's over there.
 
Kasie, Kylie was just talking about Nikki Haley heading straight to New Hampshire. I think you ran into Nikki Haley on your way to New Hampshire. What -- what's she feeling coming out of the caucuses? 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, Phil, you know, I would say the mood was grimly determined, if you will. It was not cheerful or kind of -- it wasn't something that gave you the sense that they felt like they had definitely won, but rather they had to continue to, like, rise and grind.
 
Because if they'd come in second place, I think it would have been a significantly different narrative here. I mean, the expectations for her in Iowa really changed there in the last weekend. I felt that. 
 
I was at one of her final events in Iowa, and you could tell her staff was under a ton of pressure. They were very protective of her. They seemed as though they were worried about a mistake derailing things at the last second. You can kind of really tell how a campaign is feeling by those sorts -- that sort of posture. 
 
And at the end of the day, I think there was some disappointment in the results here. Now, that doesn't mean that they don't have a chance, again, here in New Hampshire. They absolutely do. It's just not the kind of role that, at this point, has a lot of people that I'm talking to thinking that it is really possible to dent -- put a significant dent in Donald Trump's inevitability. 
 
MATTINGLY: Grimly determined. It's like on a Saturday morning when I have 17 kids' sporting events. That's how I approach things, as well. Kasie Hunt, we'll get back to you throughout the course of the hour. Thank you. 
 
HARLOW: Let's talk about all this. Republican strategist and pollster Lee Carter is with us; our senior political analyst and anchor, John Avlon; at the table with Republican strategist Doug Heye; and former deputy assistant to President Biden, Jamal Simmons. Thank you. 
 
JAMAL SIMMONS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Good morning. 
 
HARLOW: Lee, you're always with all the -- beyond the crosstabs -- numbers. Why did Trump get such a huge win? 
 
LEE CARTER, FORMER REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST AND POLLSTER: So I think the one thing -- and we've been talking about this for a while -- Republican voters are looking for a fighter. 
 
Eighty-two percent of voters that voted for Donald Trump voted for him because he was a fighter. He had such a strong ground game. When you heard his -- his caucus advocates out there, talking about what that -- what it was about him, they were talking about he cares about people like us. He's going to fight for us. That's the message that carried him right -- right to victory here. 
 
DeSantis and Haley, I think really struggled to get a message that was about the people. When you hear what people said about Haley, a lot of people said, Well, she's a next-generation leader about her. When you hear what people said about DeSantis, He did a good job in Florida. It's about him. 
 
Trump has made it about the people. And it's -- as much as a lot of people don't understand how Donald Trump -- you're laughing. 
 
JOHN AVLON, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST/ANCHOR: I am. 
 
CARTER: Donald Trump makes it about everybody else. That's what -- it's what people feel. And that's what we're seeing in the polls. 
 
I also think it's really interesting that the polls were pretty much right. They said exactly where Donald Trump was going to land. They said exactly where Haley was going to land, but DeSantis overperformed the polls. 
 
AVLON: The organization for DeSantis definitely mattered. Here's where you saw it bear it. Nikki Haley, frankly, underperformed. The latest "Des Moines Register" poll had her in second, which is why I think her claim that this is a two-person race rings a little bit hollow this morning. 
 
HARLOW: It almost made it tougher for her. 
 
AVLON: It absolutely did. Because here's where I think you saw the lack -- the comparative lack of enthusiasm, plus the weather, made it more of an uphill climb. 
 
Look, first of all, acknowledge: Big win for Donald Trump. Functionally the incumbent in this race, so I think that's important. He is the incumbent, spiritually, of the Republican Party. But a very, very big win.
 
The other thing that's striking to me is just taking a big step back: 110,000 people voted in a state of almost 3.2 million. And $120 million spent. That's a thousand dollars a vote. That is a very expensive investment for a very small percentage of the Iowa electorate, but a big win for Donald Trump, nonetheless. 
 <br>[06:10:17]
 
MATTINGLY: Jamal, we've been talking about this morning the message from Nikki Haley coming out, which is heading into New Hampshire and framing this as a, You don't want that rematch. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HALEY: Trump and Biden both lack a vision for our country's future, because both are consumed by the past: by investigations, by vendettas vendettas, by grievances. Our campaign is the last best hope of stopping the Trump-Biden nightmare. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: The thing that sticks out to me on that is one, poll after poll seems to say people don't want the rematch. They have a chance now to do something about it. They didn't in Iowa. Will they in New Hampshire? 
 
SIMMONS: In New Hampshire, you may see people who feel like, Oh, my gosh, Donald Trump is really coming. We've got to figure something out and do something. 
 
But remember, Donald Trump is like a walking, talking middle finger, right? And so people are thinking about -- people think about him like, Oh, this guy is the way we get back at the elites. The way we get back at the people who are in charge who are leaving the rest of us behind while they continue to make more money and divide up the spoils amongst themselves. 
 
So he does have, I think, what we were talking about earlier from the polls. He does have this -- this persona. 
 
Haley has got to figure out how she converts in New Hampshire. Because I think "The Des Moines Register" poll last weekend that put her in second place is what kind of dampened all this enthusiasm today. Had she not had a "Des Moines Register" poll and she got as close as she did, I think we'd all be talking about how well she did for somebody who didn't spend that much time in -- in Iowa.
 
HARLOW: She is in striking distance in our, you know, week-ago poll in New Hampshire of Trump, about seven points. My question to you, Doug, is did his huge win in Iowa make that even harder for her in New Hampshire? But also after that poll, Christie's out, you know, and that poll showed that a lot of his voters go to her. 
 
DOUG HEYE, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes. Every person I talked to in Iowa yesterday or leading up to this all went to the same question. Does Donald Trump get over 50 or not? If Donald Trump is at 49.9, I think we have a very different conversation now. And all that is about the expectations game. 
 
HARLOW: He's not, he's at 51. 
 
HEYE: He's at 51. So Donald Trump is certainly -- He's always been the alpha dog. He's in the driver's seat, and it's a very fast car right now. 
 
Nikki Haley has to do what she said she was going to do in New Hampshire. That's that New Hampshire corrects what Iowa does. She has a very small window to do that. And Ron DeSantis, if you've not won any counties in Iowa where you campaigned the hardest, you put all your hopes in, you have to justify why you're going to stay in this race at this point. 
 
MATTINGLY: You were waving and laughing. 
 
AVLON: No, no, no, no.
 
MATTINGLY: He always does that.
 
AVLON: No, no, no. I'm just -- look, I think, you know, yes, Nikki Haley narrowly won Johnson County, Coralville, Iowa City. I do think, you know, Ron DeSantis got his ticket punched. He came in second, as he said. But he hasn't really spent any time in New Hampshire. He's going to try to move on to South Carolina. That's going to be a tough sell. 
 
He could probably hit Donald Trump on some of the points of contrast harder, about lockdowns and COVID policy, where his record might contrast well with Trump. Didn't really do that. 
 
Look, I think what's significant is when we start getting too much of the expectations game and the horse race politics, yes, that's how we judge things. But if you look at, you know, Donald Trump's cleared 50 percent. But that's a matter of, like, a thousand, 2,000 votes. Just like it's around 2,000 votes that separate Haley and DeSantis. 
 
So we want to put that in real-term perspective, rather than just simply surfing off the narrative and having it seem determinative. 
 
CARTER: I do think whatever, that at the end of the day, Ron DeSantis and Nikki Haley have made it all about them and not about the American people, and they're going to have to translate their value -- they do have to translate their value to -- to themselves. Hillary Clinton made the same mistake. 
 
AVLON: I agree. But the irony, of course, being that Donald Trump, it is all about him, in terms of his world view. But people project themselves on him. 
 
CARTER: It's not what you say, it's what they feel.
 
MATTINGLY: I mean, look, we're going to get back to you guys. We've got a lot more to get to in this hour. 
 
Jamal Simmons, huge respect. I will never see Donald Trump the same again after calling him a walking and talking middle finger, which is now going to stick with me forever, which I give you a lot of credit for. It's very good image, I guess. 
 
Stick around. 
 
And tonight, Ron DeSantis makes his case and takes questions directly from New Hampshire voters. Our own Wolf Blitzer will moderate a CNN presidential town hall at 9 p.m. Eastern. HARLOW: We're going to dig a lot deeper into the numbers from
 
 yesterday, zeroing in on where the candidates did well, what it could mean for New Hampshire. That's all ahead.
 
MATTINGLY: And fresh off his big win in Iowa, Trump will be back in court today, of course. A jury is set to determine how much he will pay in damages for defaming columnist E. Jean Carroll. What to expect, that's ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:18:17]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Yes, I want to congratulate Ron and Nikki for having a good -- a good time together. We're all having a good time together. And I think they both actually did very well. I really do. I think they both did very well. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: That was Donald Trump last night, seemed to praise his Republican rivals, maybe give them a hard time for the "good time together" line. Because the good time together helped Donald Trump to a smashing victory, more than 30 points. Fifty-one percent, Ron DeSantis in second, Nikki Haley in third. 
 
If you look at the map right here, what you see is a sea of red, with the exception of one small county. We'll get to that in a minute. That means Donald Trump dominated county by county by county, winning 98 of 99 counties. 
 
And so the question is, if you compare it to 2016, how did he do? Well, we'll flip back to 2016. He actually lost in 2016 to Ted Cruz in a narrow, narrow loss. But if you look, Ted Cruz had some major wins throughout counties, particularly among evangelicals in the Northwest part of the state. 
 
Go back to 2024, let's take a look. How did Donald Trump do? Where did he underperform compared to 2016? Nowhere. Literally every single county in 2016, Donald Trump did better this time around. 
 
How about where did he win by more than 10 percent, compared to his -- the people he was running against? Everywhere but two counties. He dominated 97 of the 99 counties. 
 
What about those two counties? Well, one of them is Ames. This is a college-educated place, the home of Iowa State. Donald Trump actually winning that county, lost it back in 2016. Still winning it. This was supposed to be where Nikki Haley was supposed to have a stronghold. 
 
Another college town, Iowa City, here in Johnson County. The University of Iowa is here. Nikki Haley won this county by one vote. 
 
Now, let's pull back a little bit and get some context as to why Donald Trump actually won. 
 <br>[06:20:04]
 
There were two areas where people were really paying close attention to whether Ron DeSantis would have a pathway forward, like Ted Cruz in 2016, or whether Nikki Haley would have a pathway forward. 
 
The first is suburban voters. If you want to take a look at kind of the 13 counties that CNN identifies as suburbs, Donald Trump winning 10 of those -- sorry, 12 of those 13 counties. 
 
What happened back in 2016? Donald Trump lost ten of those 13 counties. The light red is Marco Rubio. The yellow is Ted Cruz. That was supposed to be where Nikki Haley was supposed to make a big run, Johnson County. She won by one vote, lost every other one of those counties. Donald Trump cleaned up. 
 
Now the other issue is, when you look at the Northwest part of the state back in 2016. This is evangelical country. This is where Ted Cruz dominated and where Donald Trump did very, very poorly. 
 
Take a look, perhaps, at Sioux County right here, where Donald Trump not even in the top three. How did that turn out in 2024? Donald Trump winning by 14 points over Ron DeSantis. This was an area DeSantis and his team spent a lot of time working on. A lot of visits. A lot of ground operations. Donald Trump swinging in a major way. 
 
The evangelicals in 2016 not totally sold on Donald Trump. This time around, there's not a question anymore. Evangelicals, 53 percent went to Donald Trump, 27 percent to Ron DeSantis. 
 
The reality is this: whether it's conservatives or moderates, suburbs, rural, Donald Trump, at least when it comes to Iowa, is dominant in the Republican Party, at least in these caucuses -- Poppy. 
 
HARLOW: Yes, he really is. Phil, thank you so much for that. 
 
Our team is back: Doug Heye, Lee Carter, Jammal Simmons and John Avlon. 
 
What is so remarkable, Doug, is the resurrection of Donald Trump since January 6th. The fact that you had even the people closest to him saying, This is going to be your legacy. We know that, by the way, from what they said to Jack Smith in this investigation, unless you change this. 
 
He didn't. He stuck by the lie, and look at this domination. 
 
HEYE: Yes, and I think he owes a lot of people thank-you cards for that, starting with Kevin McCarthy. 
 
But also the Republican who were running against him. You know, every time that Donald Trump has been indicted, we've seen Ron DeSantis and Nikki Haley and other Republicans running, except for basically Chris Christie, not only failing to go after Donald Trump, as they would any other candidate for any other office. They use the same rhetoric that he does. It's a two-tiered system of justice; the system is rigged and so forth. 
 
So we see Donald Trump get indicted. Eight, ten days later, we see polling that shows his numbers haven't moved, and it's because his rivals didn't give voters a place to go. So they're not going to go anywhere. That part of it should be surprising. But it's part of the weird new abnormal, if you will, of our politics. 
 
MATTINGLY: Can we spin this forward for a minute? And we can stick on Iowa and New Hampshire, but if you're looking at the -- the entrance polls, one of which says 65 percent of those who voted will support him, even if he's convicted of a crime, that's fine in a Republican primary. That doesn't actually surprise me. It might surprise some people. But that leaves 30 plus percent. 
 
Well, if 30 percent of your party doesn't support you in a general election, you're dead --
 
AVLON: Yes.
 
MATTINGLY: -- in the water. Do you think that goes through? Or is this just a in the moment type of thing?
 
CARTER: I think it's a big problem. But I also was really surprised to see how many people that were -- identify as independents voted for Donald Trump in Iowa. 
 
So I think that there's -- there's a huge number of people that are going to turn out for Donald Trump even if this happens. 
 
Now, this is if he's convicted of a crime. This is a big projection. I'm not sure, 31 -- if you can't get 31 percent of your party, you're going to have a problem. But I'm not sure those 31 percent are going to vote for Joe Biden. 
 
The big question is if they're not going to vote for Donald Trump, are they going to vote for a third party, or are they going to stay at home? But I'm not sure that, just because of that, they're going to say, You know what? Biden's the answer now. So I think that's a big problem, too.
 
AVLON: In the 100,000 folks who voted last night in the Iowa caucus, or 110,000, what you see is around two-thirds believe Donald Trump's election lies, right? 
 
And that's roughly also the same number of folks who will vote for him if he's convicted. I mean, there's a hardcore of support, and you should not diminish it. 
 
It's two-thirds of one of America's major political parties. But one- third is still pumping the brakes and saying they're concerned. And he is -- and that could be devastating in a general election, if you play it out forward. 
 
And I just think that, you know, that number, we kind of gloss over it. We've gotten used to it. Two-thirds of the Iowa caucus voters think that -- you know, believe Donald Trump's election lies that Biden didn't legitimately win. That should be incredibly troubling to anyone in a democracy where we depend on using common facts to come to common solutions. 
 
HARLOW: Late tweet from the president, President Biden, last night. 
 
SIMMONS: The actual president. 
 
HARLOW: Just wanted to clarify here. 
 
"Looks like Donald Trump just won Iowa." Goes on to talk about "It's me versus the extreme." This comes at a moment when there is real concern within the Democratic Party among people closest to President Biden about his campaign and if it is taking the right approach and if the right people are at campaign headquarters doing what they need to do right now in this moment. 
 
That converging with Donald Trump's huge win in Iowa, concerning to someone who worked for him? 
 
SIMMONS: No, actually, I think we may have a ricochet effect that will help the president -- help President Biden, which is this. Recently there was a YouTube -- YouGov poll, 45 percent of Democrats who did not believe Donald Trump was going to be the ultimate nominee of the party. 
 <br>[06:25:13]
 
Headlines today, social media today, Donald Trump wiped the floor with people in Iowa. A bunch of Democrats are going to start to sober up and realize, wait a minute. Donald Trump might actually be on the other side of this, at which point you may start to see some of that lag that's in President Biden's numbers --
 
HARLOW: Folks that didn't think it was going to happen.
 
SIMMONS: And they start to come home. Because they realize this is the fight that we're in, and we've got to go ahead and get with our guy. 
 
MATTINGLY: Can I ask you, back to John's point, I think this is interesting. I know it's your theory of the case. It's a hell of a risk to take. 
 
SIMMONS: It's all a risk, my friend.
 
MATTINGLY: The point you're making, I'm still struck when I watch Chris Sununu, who was asked by Wolf Blitzer, if --
 
HARLOW: He'll vote for Trump.
 
MATTINGLY: -- Donald Trump is your nominee, will you vote for him? And Kim Reynolds, last night, who endorsed Ron DeSantis, who has a secret Twitter account that our Shane -- our pal Shane Goldmacher found that isn't very complimentary of Trump, asked, will you vote for Donald Trump if he's the nominee? And she says yes, absolutely. 
 
If that's the case, like, everybody comes home for him. HEYE: Yes. Ron DeSantis said last week that, you know, if you're the
 
 worst Republican in the party but you kiss the ring, Donald Trump likes you. 
 
MATTINGLY: Did you start the stop clock right then? To see how long it's going to be before he does that?
 
HEYE: We know it's -- we know it's coming for DeSantis sooner rather than later. And for some people, they've already done it in advance. They sent the signal, eventually, I will kiss the ring. That doesn't help those candidates that they're campaigning for. 
 
AVLON: That's right. That's right. 
 
SIMMONS: Chris Sununu. 
 
AVLON: There's another major factor, as we start thinking about Iowa vis-a-vis New Hampshire. Independent voters are not a monolith. Right? You know, there are some independent voters who are too conservative, in their minds, for the Republican Party, or too liberal for the Democratic Party. 
 
In New Hampshire, you tend to see more of the classic centrist independent voter. And they can participate. And we'll see whether they show up for Nikki Haley in numbers that are sort of McCain-esque. 
 
I mean, the growth of Trump between '16 and '24, not surprising. He's effectively the incumbent. 
 
Remember, McCain wiped the floor with Bush after a big win in 2000 because of those independents. I'm not saying Nikki Haley can capture that magic again. But that's really where the test is going to be over the next week.
 
SIMMONS: And on that reference, McCain wiped the floor with him. He did not become the nominee. 
 
AVLON: Correct. 
 
HARLOW: Fair enough. Jamal, Doug, John, Lee, thank you. 
 
And today at noon, speaking of Chris Sununu, Nikki Haley, watch Dana Bash's show "INSIDE POLITICS." She's going to sit down with Nikki Haley and Sununu, and you'll see that live here in just a couple of hours. 
 
MATTINGLY: Well, 80 million people right now are under winter weather alerts from Louisiana to Maine. People in places like New York seeing something they haven't seen in years. You're looking at it. It's snowflakes. How long it's expected to last.
 
HARLOW: Also, Rocket Man, indeed. Elton John securing his place in history as an EGOT winner last night at the prime-time Emmys. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AMY POEHLER, FORMER CAST MEMBER, NBC'S "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE": Elton John live, farewell from Dodger Stadium. Now, I can't speak for Elton, but EGOT to be excited about that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:30:00]