Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: A magnitude 7.4 earthquake struck Taiwan; World Central Kitchen Workers Killed in Gaza; Ukraine Strikes Inside Russia; International Response to Gaza Crisis; U.S. and Israel Deny Involvement in Damascus Strike; Renewed Russian Attacks on Ukrainian Cities; U.S. aid to Ukraine; Biden and Xi Speak for First Time Since November; Eight Detained Over Deadly Istanbul Nightclub Fire; Storm System, Cloud Cover Could Spoil Solar Eclipse Views. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired April 03, 2024 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[00:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a very warm welcome. I'm Paula Newton in New York. Ahead right here on CNN Newsroom.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON (voiceover): Crumbling buildings, power outages, and aftershocks. Taiwan experiences its strongest earthquake. In a quarter century. Mourning, the World's Central Kitchen team killed in Gaza. President Biden says Israel isn't doing enough to protect aid workers and civilians. And retaliation. Ukraine responds to a deadly Russian strike with an attack on a Russian oil refinery.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: And we do begin with breaking news out of Taiwan, where a powerful earthquake has brought down buildings and set off tsunami warnings. Now the magnitude 7.4 quake struck about 8 a.m. local time. We're hearing it was the strongest quake to hit the island in 25 years. At least one person is reported dead. Authorities say there are reports of people still trapped in some of the dozens of collapsed buildings. And more than 91,000 households at this hour have no electricity.
 
Now Taiwan's defense ministry has now deployed troops to the quake zone. Now this quake struck off the eastern side of the island and led to tsunami warnings and evacuations for parts of Japan and the Philippines. Thankfully, those have now been canceled. CNN's Hanako Montgomery has been tracking all of this for us from Tokyo and joins us now. Hanako, what more are you hearing about injuries and potential damage here. I mean, this was quite a shock as people woke up to this this morning.
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Paula, I mean, definitely a huge, huge shock. I mean, this earthquake was very alarming for people in Taiwan. Like you mentioned, it is the strongest quake that the island has felt in the past 25 years. The last time was back in 1999 when a magnitude 7.7 earthquake killed 2400 people. Now, in terms of this earthquake that happened this morning, we know that it happened near Hualien County.
 
The epicenter was near Hualien County, which is known as a very popular tourist destination. It's on the eastern part of Taiwan. It's also a rural area and where most of Taiwan's earthquakes actually take place. Now, we have heard that  one person is confirmed dead. This is a hiker who was in Hualien County near that epicenter like I just mentioned. We are also hearing reports of injuries from the Taiwanese government. We also know that more than 91000 households are without power.
 
We are seeing roads partially collapsed and really terrifying footage of landslides occurring around Taiwan, disrupting people's evacuation efforts and really debris just flying around there. We also know that people are stuck underneath some of these collapsed homes and buildings. Twenty six buildings, in fact, have collapsed.
 
And in response to this natural disaster, the Taiwanese Defense Ministry has dispatched military troops to work with local governments and coordinate evacuation efforts. This is pretty common protocol in Taiwan. When you see a natural disaster of this scale, trying to get people to higher ground to safety and trying to account for those who still might be trapped underneath those collapsed homes, those collapsed buildings.
 
Now, also to note Taiwan, of course, Taiwan was issuing that tsunami warning that was issued for Japan and the Philippines. Those have been lifted in Hualien County. We know that schools and work have been suspended for the day because of those constant aftershocks. And the Taiwanese government has warned that we could be seeing aftershocks for the next three to four days. Magnitudes ranging from six point five to seven, which is still quite powerful.
 
And Paula, you know, as someone who lives in a very seismically active country, Japan, these aftershocks can be just as terrifying as that first initial earthquake because you never know when they're going to take place. They never feel like they're going to stop. And it's very, very terrifying, I think, for people in Taiwan at the moment Paula.
 
NEWTON: Yeah, you make such a good point there. And especially as those first responders are still trying to attend to those who are injured or may be trapped. Definitely they will be looking out for those aftershocks. 
 <br>[00:05:09]
 
Hanako Montgomery, thanks for tracking this for us, and we'll come back to you as soon as you have more information. Appreciate it. Now, the deaths of seven aid workers in Gaza has sparked international outrage and brought an apology from Israel over what it's calling, in its words, a grave mistake. The World Central Kitchen identified the seven killed in an Israeli strike on Monday, saying these heroes, you see them there, were just returning from a full day's mission. Now, most are foreign nationals. The organization says it's pausing its operations in Gaza and will now assess its future there. 
 
A Palestinian team member killed in the strike was laid to rest on Tuesday. The chief of staff of the Israeli military, meantime, apologized for the deadly strike, calling it a mistake that followed a misidentification. Meantime, U.S. President Joe Biden says he's outraged and heartbroken. Over the deaths of the aid workers, and in a statement expressed his frustration, saying, quote, Israel has not done enough to protect aid workers trying to deliver desperately needed help to civilians. Israel has also not done enough to protect civilians. CNN's Jeremy Diamond is following developments and has more now from Jerusalem. We want to warn our viewers some of the images in his report are graphic and difficult to watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): There is no mistaking the target of this Israeli strike. The World Central Kitchen's logo still visible after a missile tore through the roof of this vehicle. Pieces of the aid organization's emblem scattered throughout the charred hull of a second vehicle. And then there are the bodies of the aid workers themselves. Patches proudly worn on chests over bulletproof vests that offer no more protection in Gaza than the emblem of a humanitarian aid organization. They are among seven aid workers killed in Israeli strikes on their convoy late Monday night. Six of them were foreigners, including a dual American- Canadian citizen, as well as British, Australian and Polish nationals, triggering international uproar and prompting a rare apology from Israel's top general.
 
LT.GEN.HERZI HALEVI, CHIEF OF GENERAL STAFF, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES: I want to be very clear. The strike was not carried out with the intention of harming WCKA workers. It was a mistake that followed a misidentification at night during a war in a very complex conditions. It shouldn't have happened.
 
DIAMOND (voiceover): World Central Kitchen says the Israeli military knew about the convoy, and a weapons expert consulted by CNN said images of the damage indicate a precise drone strike carried out with total visibility of the target. World Central Kitchen said its aid workers got into three vehicles after unloading aid at this warehouse in central Gaza and began traveling down the coastal al-Rashid Street. CNN geolocated the convoy's deadly journey using images filmed at the scene. Three and a half miles south, a first vehicle is struck. Two other strikes rain down in quick succession. One vehicle is hit a half mile further. The third comes to a stop another mile down the road, found only the next day.
 
HASSAN AL SHURBAJI, HEARD THE AIRSTRIKE (through translator): Last night between 11 and 11.30 p.m., a missile hit a car. When we approached, we saw the car on fire. We tried to extinguish the fire, and upon opening the car, we discovered boxes of canned meat. It was an international aid organization that assists people. Any international or European organization that comes to aid Gaza will be targeted. They want to send a message of don't come and let the people die. DIAMOND (voiceover): The Israeli military has struck aid convoys in the past, including this U.N. truck, which was shelled in early February. World Central Kitchen, founded in 2010 by celebrity chef Jose Andres, has been one of the most prominent aid organizations in Gaza, even working with the Israeli military last month to build a pier off the Gaza coastline, delivering the first aid shipments to Gaza by sea.
 
ZOMI FRANCOM, WORLD CENTRAL KITCHEN: Hey, this is Zomi and Chef Olivier. 
 
DIAMOND (voiceover): Australian Zomi Frankcom spent years coordinating aid operations for World Central Kitchen, risking and ultimately sacrificing her life to help those in need. She died alongside her Polish colleague, Damien Sobel.
 
DAMIEN SOBEL, WORLD CENTRAL KITCHEN: Hello everyone, Damien Sobel from Cairo.
 
DIAMOND (voiceover): Weeks earlier, he was excitedly readying a convoy to build soup kitchens in Gaza.
 
SOBEL: They already loaded tables, shelves, water systems.
 <br>[00:10:29]
 
DIAMOND (voiceover): Today, their bodies were among those headed for the Rafah border crossing. But the body of one of the seven will not leave Gaza. Saif Issam Abu Taha, a driver and translator, was buried in central Gaza, not far from where he carried out his final mission. Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Joining me now from Jerusalem is Jamie McGoldrick. He is the UN's humanitarian coordinator for the Palestinian Territory. And I want to thank you for joining us. And, you know, before we get started here, I want to repeat something that we just heard in Jeremy's report. And that was this was a precise drone strike with total visibility of the target. What does that tell you about how this, quote, grave mistake took place? And why it could actually happen?
 
JAMIE MCGOLDRICK, U.N. HUMANITARIAN COORDINATOR: Well, thanks. I think there's been a lot of warnings in the past. And this is not a surprise in many ways, because we've had many other incidents. Obviously, this is a very more tragic incident than others we've had. But over the years, the months that this has been happening, we've seen many, many incidents that have taken place, resulting in the deaths of humanitarian workers and obviously attacks on houses, premises. And unfortunately, this one is the most severe of all and the most tragic of all. But it's we've been talking to the Israelis about, close to, you know, the one big incident would cause us to rethink where we are in the current situation.
 
NEWTON: And you make a good point that this is not an isolated incident. I want you to listen now to one of your colleagues earlier talking to us about what has gone on in this conflict. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHANE DUJARRIC, U.N. SPOKESPERSON: We've had more than, I think, 180 humanitarian aid workers killed in Gaza. We have a de-confliction mechanism which clearly I mean, for our part, we've we have noted that it was not working properly. We keep delivering aid, as we said, on an opportunistic basis, which is not no way to run a major aid operation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: You now, I know that President Biden says he's outraged. But how to make sure that Israel actually abides by its humanitarian responsibilities here? Because clearly, whatever military motive they have seems to take precedence above all else.
 
MCGOLDRICK: Well, that's true. I mean, I think what we've seen is this humanitarian notification system we have, where we speak to and connect with the Israelis and ask them for permission to move or for them to know that we have houses or we have cars or people. But there have been so many incidents where that hasn't actually worked. So the insecurity for humanitarian workers and installations has been problematic and it's actually reduced our ability to move and deliver. And I think these coordinated move vacation systems we have, have to be revisited because it's just not functioning properly. And we need to get some better protection for humanitarian workers and even getting communications equipment and the ability to have the telecoms network back up and running again to allow us to make contact with each other, which is not the case at the moment.
 
NEWTON: Yeah, which is extraordinary because we are used to many conflicts around the world over decades now. There is that humanitarian corridor and that can usually be maintained. I repeat, this is one of the deadliest conflicts in terms of aid workers either being killed or injured. You know, given the threat to aid workers, many organizations are now pausing relief efforts. What's your fear of what will happen given we already know the acute suffering of Gazans at this very hour who desperately need that aid?
 
MCGOLDRICK: Yeah, I mean, I think this incident comes at a very bad time because it's real severe hardship and suffering in Gaza right now. As we've seen from recent reports from the World Farming Committee, they've indicated that 70% of people in the north are in very difficult situations and imminent famine is ready. And so for any pause to our ability to supply is really, really dangerous. And the World Central Kitchen is one of the biggest producers of hot meals for people. There are some 60 community kitchens throughout the whole of Gaza is doing a massive, an amazing job. And now that's stopped. And others are starting question mark about is the situation good enough, safe enough on the ground for them to do the work? And I think that the unpredictability of all is something that is a real concern. We're having conversations now with the Israelis about how we can take this up, how we can improve things and how we can squeeze concessions from Israel about our ability to work, to live and to actually deliver humanitarian assistance in a much better and more safe way. NEWTON: You know, I do want to talk to you about the system that is in place. There's been a lot of controversy. There's been a lot of controversy about the U.N.'s role in Gaza. But as you said, you were talking about World Central Kitchen, a completely independent organization that has been incredibly effective. 
 <br>[00:15:19]
 
What can you do going forward to make sure that some kind of trust is restored and that aid will begin to flow to Gaza in very large respects? Because what's been happening now is it's been a trickle and completely inadequate. 
 
MCGOLDRICK: Yeah, you're right. I mean, I think there's been a lot of incidents that have taken place to make the situation look very hostile. It's the most dangerous place for the humanitarian work in the world right now. There's no safe places left in Gaza. Everywhere is a threat. We have a law and order breakdown because people's desperation causes them to actually attack some of the trucks that come through with aid. That's one thing. Also, the discipline and the unpredictability of IDF checkpoints is problematic. And I think those things are making it difficult. We have to have a conversation with the IDF themselves, and that's not something that's happened regularly.
 
We already start to see now the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defense, Gallant, saying that we have to have a different type of connectivity and conversation. And that means us sitting down in a joint operations center where we have face-to-face discussions to build two things, a better understanding of the work we do, which I think is lost on the IDF in many ways, and secondly, to build up a degree of trust, which is currently not there right now. And that's something that has to happen if we're going to take on this massive humanitarian challenge, because it's going to be with us for a long time. This is not a short emergency. This has got, I would say, years before we get through this on the humanitarian basis alone.
 
NEWTON: Yeah, it is such a searing point that you make. This will be years. And given the note of contrition, apparently, from the IDF, we certainly hope that we see a de-confliction finally and more communication. Jamie McGoldrick in Jerusalem for us. Thanks so much. Appreciate it.
 
MCGOLDRICK: Thank you.
 
NEWTON: Now, meantime, anger is rising on the streets of Jerusalem. Thousands of anti-government protesters gathered outside the Israeli parliament or Knesset again on Tuesday. They want Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to resign. Now, social media videos show some breached security barriers and tried to approach Mr. Netanyahu's residence. Others clashed with police. Israeli media reports several people were arrested. The protesters are angry about the government's failure to secure the release of the remaining Israeli hostages in Gaza. Now, the Biden administration, meantime, is pushing back against claims that it was involved in a presumed Israeli strike on the Iranian consulate in Damascus, Syria. A top U.S. official is warning against any retaliatory attacks by Iran against American forces in the region. But Tehran says it holds the U.S., quote, answerable due to its support for Israel. CNN's Ben Wedeman has more now.
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Tehran is vowing to respond to Israel's Monday airstrike on Iran's embassy complex in Damascus, a strike that left 13 dead, including two senior officers with the Quds Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). One of them, Senior Commander Mohammad Reza Zahidi, was responsible for IRGC operations in Lebanon and Syria, the highest-ranking Iranian official to be killed since the Gaza war began. Israel has refused to claim responsibility for the strike, but Tuesday afternoon, the U.S. Defense Department spokesperson said the Pentagon assesses Israel indeed did it. 
 
U.S. officials insist they did not have prior knowledge of the strike. Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and President Ibrahim Raisi have said the strike will not go unanswered. How that response will come, where, and when, is unclear. Until now, Iran has targeted Israel and U.S. forces in the region with the U.S. forces in the region through allied militias Lebanon, Iraq, Syria and Yemen. But it has always avoided a direct attack, but now Iran's prestige is on the line. If it doesn't respond forcefully, it will appear weak before its friends and its foes. If it does respond directly and forcefully to Israel, the war that rages in Gaza could spread across the Middle East. I'm Ben Wiedemann, CNN, reporting from Beirut.
 
NEWTON: Coming up for us, Ukraine is answering Russian attacks by striking at the very heart of Russia's war machine. That is next.
 <br>[00:20:09]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON (voiceover): This is the moment a suspected Ukrainian drone struck its target inside Russia, 1,300 kilometers from the Ukrainian border. Russian officials say Kiev launched several drone attacks southeast of Moscow Tuesday. The Ukrainian source tells CNN they targeted a drone factory and one of Russia's largest oil refineries in one of their deepest operations inside Russian territory. Now, Ukrainian officials say it's a direct and justified response to Russian attacks on Ukrainian civilians. At least 18 people, including five children, were injured in a missile strike on the city of Dnipro in eastern Ukraine Tuesday. Here's President Volodymyr Zelensky.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRANIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Dear Ukrainians, rescue operations are currently underway. After a Russian missile strike, in particular, buildings of a college and a kindergarten have been damaged. All services are on site. The Russian terrorists are receiving responses to their strikes, each time longer- range responses.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Joining me now from Kiev is Tymofiy Mylovanov. He is the president of the Kiev School of Economics and is the former minister of economic development, trade, and agriculture for Ukraine. And I want to thank you for joining us. I have to say, for months, Ukraine has been trying to bring the war to Russia's doorstep. Do you believe Ukrainian forces can sustain this and that ultimately it is viable in terms of an offensive operation?
 
TYMOFIY MYLOVANOV, PRESIDENT KYVIV SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS: I think it's more of a practical consideration. Ukraine is trying to hit drone production and other defense production and military production facilities in Russia, as well as oil refineries and some infrastructure. So it's not so much as an offensive operation as the direct attempt to subdue or decrease the production capabilities of Russia.
 
NEWTON: You know, and given the capabilities and what's been going on, there is apparently renewed danger in the city of Kharkiv. It is the second largest city in Kiev. It was a triumph, really, for Ukrainians that Russia failed to take that city in the early days of the war. There's been a renewed Russian attack on the city just last week. I mean, how dangerous do you believe this moment is for residents in Kharkiv?
 
MYLOVANOV: It is unlikely Russia will be able to take Kharkiv at all. It's just going to be decades. But it is dangerous for people. And Russia has been targeting civilians and energy infrastructure. And currently, for the last two weeks and even as of today, Kharkiv is on a schedule of blackout. On average, at least four hours per day, people in Kharkiv don't have electricity. So, yes, the infrastructure has been severely damaged. It's going to take months for some of this infrastructure to be rebuilt. Some of it is probably not possible to rebuild. And also Russia has been using new, very powerful gliding bombs to target Kharkiv.
 
NEWTON: And, you know, this really gives us a wider view of what the state of play is right now. is right now in this conflict.
 <br>[00:25:19]
 
The attack on the Dnipro is a warning of Russia's intentions. It's really stepped up attacks. And as you've just pointed out on infrastructure and the use of maybe some hybrid missiles, more ballistic. I mean, what effect is this having on Ukrainians already so war-weary? 
 
MYLOVANOV: We are angry. At least people around me are angry and we're putting more effort towards defense development, especially technology. And as everyone has seen, Ukrainian capabilities have been increasing too. We can strike longer range targets, but it is wearing people down. That's absolutely true. I think people in Ukraine are very clear about what the alternative is. It's not that, you know, Ukrainian army can take a break and walk away. Unlike Russians, they actually can walk away from Ukraine. But yes, it's really, really tough. It's the third year of the war, and it might go on for quite a bit.
 
NEWTON: You know, President Zelensky said in recent weeks that he, in his words, trusted House Speaker Mike Johnson. You're obviously waiting on a lot of USA. Do you believe that the speaker will come through and get a Ukrainian aid bill passed in Congress?
 
MYLOVANOV: I've been skeptical throughout the year, actually, the last 12 months, based on the dynamics in Washington and elections. But right now, I have become much more optimistic, and I think the aid can get through. And what it will do almost immediately in Ukraine, that it will change the situation on the front lines. Because we have just touched on two developments. For example, Kharkiv or Sumy is another city which has seen a serious uptick in the attacks by Russia. But also Ukraine responding or trying to undermine Russia's capabilities to strike Ukraine by targeting long-range targets. At the same time, Russia has been pushing really heavy in the east of Ukraine to achieve a breakthrough on the ground. Ukraine has been able to contain that for now successfully, but it does lose territory. And I think the aid from the US will change the dynamics.
 
NEWTON: Interesting that you say it will have an effect, even if it just passes in the next few weeks. You do believe it will have a fairly immediate impact on the front line. Tymofiy, we'll leave it there for now. Really appreciate it. Still to come for us, the leaders of China and the US speak for the first time in months. We'll break down what they discussed and Turkish officials have detained several people in connection with a deadly nightclub fire. Coming up, we hear from neighbors who watched the devastation unfold.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: And we continue to follow the breaking news out of Taiwan, where emergency teams are responding to the strongest earthquake there to hit in 25 years. 
 <br>[00:30:35]
 
Authorities say at least four people were killed by the magnitude 7.4 quake with dozens more injured. And in fact, dozens of buildings have now collapsed. Officials say they have received reports of people trapped. 
 
Significant aftershocks could complicate the relief efforts with tremors likely to continue for days. 
 
The quake struck off the Eastern side of the island, triggering landslides damaging a coastal highway and knocking out electricity for more than 90,000 households. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden and Donald Trump have now committed -- now have enough committed delegates to earn their party's nominations. But some states are sticking to their primary schedule, with polls closing just a few hours ago in four states. 
 
Now, Donald Trump won Wisconsin's 41 Republican delegates, unchallenged. He also won the battleground state in 2016's presidential election, but President Biden took it back in 2020. 
 
Meantime, Mr. Biden ran unopposed in Wisconsin, as well, but some voters chose a, quote, "uninstructed delegation" option in both Republican and Democratic ballots. 
 
Now, it's similar to the uncommitted option in other states, where voters can allow delegates to pick whichever candidate they like, sending a message to political parties that voters are unhappy.
 
Meantime, President Biden spent the -- spent some time speaking with Chinese President Xi Jinping Tuesday. The two leaders spent nearly two hours on the phone together, their first conversation since meeting in person in November. 
 
CNN's M.J. Lee has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
M.J. LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping speaking on the phone for the first time on Tuesday since their last --
 
LEE (voice-over): -- in-person summit in California in November, coming in front of the backdrop of some serious global turbulence. And as U.S.-China relations had hit rock bottom last year.
 
And as officials on both sides are trying to diffuse some of those tensions --
 
LEE: -- the two leaders said to have discussed a myriad of issues, including the wars that are ongoing in Gaza and in Ukraine. 
 
Some issues that have strained historically the U.S.-Chinese relations, including the situation in Taiwan and provocations that we have seen recently from Beijing --
 
LEE (voice-over): -- in the South China Sea, I also discussed our areas of potential cooperation between the two countries, including countering --
 
LEE: -- narcotics and the issue of artificial intelligence. According to a readout that we received from the White House of the call. 
 
LEE (voice-over): It said, "The two leaders welcomed ongoing efforts to maintain open channels of communication and responsibly manage the relationship through high-level diplomacy and working-level consultations in the weeks and months ahead." 
 
Now, you'll recall earlier this year that CNN had exclusively reported that, when the two leaders saw each other last fall. Chinese President Xi had told President Biden that China had no intention of interfering in the 2024 U.S. election -- election. 
 
But interestingly, a senior administration official telling reporters ahead of this phone call, I don't think we ever really take the Chinese at their word when they say they will or will not do something. It is about verifying. 
 
Now, the last time that President Biden and President Xi met in person in November. Again, U.S.-China relations had pretty much hit rock-bottom, and the
 
 -- coming out of that meeting, the two leaders had basically agreed that what they wanted to do going forward was to be able to pick up the phone and call each other more and try to avoid situations that could be dangerous --
 
LEE: -- in terms of misunderstandings that could take place between these two superpowers. 
 
So certainly, a significant phone call and a continuation of an attempt to rebuild and strengthen communication between these two countries. 
 
M.J. Lee, CNN, at the White House.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NEWTON: Turkish authorities have detained eight people in connection with a deadly nightclub fire. At least 29 people were killed when the fire started in the club's basement, which was undergoing renovations. All the victims were construction workers. 
 
CNN's Scott McLean has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:35:02]
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The camera trembles as neighbors capture the raging fire across the road. Hours later, the human cost becomes tragically apparent as firefighters pull bodies out one by one. 
 
All afternoon police, investigators, and exhausted firefighters came and went, wondering what went wrong. All told, at least 29 people were killed. All of them were workers doing renovations on a nightclub housed in the bottom of this 16-story apartment block. 
 
The slick Masquerade nightclub looks out of place on the ordinary- looking residential street. 
 
Sama Soanja (ph) lives now next door and heard screams when the fire first started. "I used to go to the nightclub from time to time," she says. "The bar had one entrance and an exit. There's only one way in and one way out." 
 
MCLEAN: From here, you can see quite clearly where the fire would have started on these lower floors and then raced up the side of this building. 
 
There have been several people detained already as part of this investigation, including the business manager of the club and the person responsible for doing the metalwork renovation inside. 
 
Now, in addition to the fire crews on scene, there are also three occupational safety experts here doing their own investigation into what went wrong. 
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): Across the road, the neighbors invite us to see the aftermath from their vantage point. They asked not to be identified.
 
"It's like a maze inside. There are so many casualties, because they couldn't escape," she says. "The workers were kids trying to earn a bit of money. I cried a lot, because I saw these young guys entering the club in the morning before I went to the doctor. I am so sorry this happened." 
 
Scott McLean, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Still ahead for us, eclipse mania is spreading through North America, but some of the best-laid plans to get those best views may not work out.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
NEWTON: So the biggest names in music are calling on the industry to protect artists from the threat posed by artificial intelligence. More than 200 artists, including Billie Eilish, Kacey Musgraves, Ja Rule and Bon -- Jon Bon Jovi have signed an open letter addressed to developers and tech companies.
 
And it reads, in part, "We must protect against a predatory use of A.I. to steal professional artists' voices and likenesses, violate creators' rights, and destroy the music ecosystem." 
 
"Forbes" has just come out with its annual list of billionaires. Now, the usual names are on top. Bernard Arnault, he's head of the world's largest luxury brand, LVMH, and whose family, incidentally, is worth some $233 billion. 
 
He's followed by Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg. 
 <br>[00:40:06]
 
But there were some high-profile newcomers there this year, including Sam Altman. He's, remember, the CEO of OpenAI. Luxury shoe designer Cristian Louboutin, and a woman who's made quite a bit of news lately. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC: "ME!" BY TAYLOR SWIFT)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: "Me!" by Taylor Swift. Yes, she's on the list, and Swift is truly one of a kind. She's the first musician to make the "Forbes" list of billionaires based solely on her songs and performances.
 
No surprise, some people say she was responsible for quite a bit of economic activity wherever her concerts play. 
 
Now, we are less than a week from the total solar eclipse, which won't happen again in North America until 2044. Many people are strategizing over where to watch.
 
CNN meteorologist Chad Myers explains which regions are expected to get the best view and why the weather is likely to spoil some plans.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: I'm going to show you both the European and the American model and kind of give you an idea. If you want to find totality -- and you really, really do, because if you just miss it by one or two percent, you don't get the full effect.
 
But there's your totality, right across parts from about Texas all the way up to Maine. Thirty-one point six million people are already in the path, and you don't even have to move.
 
But you may have to move, because we have a storm system that's going to develop here along the Gulf Coast. Both models, American model and the European model doing the same thing. 
 
So there's your totality. And the white, unfortunately, is the computer's idea of where the clouds will be. That's the American model. Here's the European model, much better. At least most of the Ohio Valley could be clear. 
 
But what you have to understand is that this time of year is the time of year that we have, climatologically, the most clouds out there. It's spring. 
 
So will we see rain? Likely in some spots as we get closer. Saturday and Sunday, plan your trip accordingly. You likely will have to move from many locations to the best ones. 
 
And right now, probably close to the Mississippi River. We'll see.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Gosh, so many of us hope that forecast changes. I want you to join us Monday for the total solar eclipse as it travels from Mexico across America and right into Canada. Our special coverage starts at 1 p.m. Eastern. That's 6 p.m. London time, 9 p.m. in Abu Dhabi.
 
And I want to thank you for watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Paula Newton. I'll be back with more news at the top of the hour. WORLD SPORT is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:30]
 
(WORLD SPORT)