Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Trump Seethes As Stormy Daniels Testifies In Hush Money Trial; Officials: U.S. Paused Bombs To Israel Over Potential Use In Rafah; Today: Millions of People Under Tornado Watches. Aired 5-5:30a ET

Aired May 08, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:39]
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  It's Wednesday, May 8th.
 
Right now on CNN THIS MORNING:
 
Stormy Daniels on the stand with lurid details about her alleged -- alleged sexual encounter with Donald Trump. The fallout, ahead.
 
Plus, the Biden administration pausing a shipment of bombs to Israel last week.
 
And a state of emergency in parts of Michigan. Tornado is flattening homes, collapsing buildings, and many people trapped.
 
(MUSIC)
 
HUNT:  All right, 5:00 a.m. here in Washington. Here's a live look at the Statue of Liberty in New York City where all that, when telling yesterday.
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us.
 
And a day off from this trial. Today is a day off, maybe just -- what everyone needs after a jaw-dropping day yesterday of testimony in the Donald Trump criminal hush, money trial. Stormy Daniels took the stand and she had salacious details about her alleged encounter with Trump in 2006. 
 
The former president was cursing and shaking his head during the testimony. We know this from the transcript. Judge Juan Merchan told Trump's attorneys but he wouldn't tolerate the former president's behavior. Trump's lawyers later argued the judge should declare a mistrial in the wake of Daniels testimony and Merchan deny that motion. 
 
Trump didn't acknowledge Daniels testimony after court wrapped up for the day.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This was a very big day, a very revealing day. As you see, their case is totally falling apart. They have nothing on the books and records and even something that should bear very little relationship with the case. It's just disaster for the D.A. To the Soros-backed D.A., it's a disaster.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  All right. Joining me now to discuss is Stef Kight. She's politics reporter for "Axios". 
 
Stef, good morning. Thank you so much for being here.
 
That testimony yesterday went there, right? I mean, it went to places that the judge basically said, hey, you've gone too far here. The judge asking for fewer details.
 
We were not treated to fewer details. We were treated too many details, including some new ones about this alleged encounter between Trump and Stormy Daniels. 
 
And then we learn this very interesting texture from the transcript where the judge said he could hear Trump cursing under his breath shaking his head. The judge says this is contemptuous it could impact the jury. 
 
What does that say to you about the impact of the testimony yesterday?
 
STEF KIGHT, POLITICS REPORTER, AXIOS:  I mean, it was such a remarkable moment. Of course, we've heard the story from Stormy Daniels and multiple ways through her book. We've heard the story.
 
But to have her saying this in court with Trump sitting right there is just such a remarkable moment for American political history right now. And I mean, it -- clearly, it got out of hand according to the judge's own reactions. You know, the judge had to tell Stormy Daniels to, you know, okay, maybe not go into quite so much detail. We don't really need to go there. And then at the same time also telling Trump, okay, if you cant be cursing under your breath. 
 
And it just goes to show how salacious of an allegation this is how, you know, how much Trump is annoyed by this being pulled up once again and -- I mean, this is just another insane moment in this political news cycle. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah, it's definitely one -- one way to put it. So, on cross- examination, the defense team, Trump's defense team seems intent on undermining Daniels by casting her as someone who was out to get Trump essentially. 
 
And they also got her to admit that she hates President Trump. They said to her, and you do hate president Trump? Correct. And she said yes to that, what impact do you think that has? 
 
KIGHT:  I mean, this is certainly their tactic here. They want to show something else as you know, self-interested that this is something she was doing to make money on. And also that she has maybe politically motivated. They want to show it as a personal antagonism towards Trump versus you're dealing with, with her actual allegations versus dealing with, you know, the evidence that we've seen at this point of hush money payments and Trump's involvement there. 
 <br>[05:05:10]
 
And that is something we often see from Trumps attorneys. You're going to attack the credibility of the witness. And so we saw that yesterday for sure. 
 
HUNT:  So, Stef, what is the sort of next -- next turn at here in this trial, especially as, I mean, we know that the Daniels is going to be back up on the stand for cross-examination and then we still have yet to hear from Michael Cohen.
 
Trump is trying to shrug this off in public, right? I mean, he's trying to say, okay, I've all these grievances, I'm being kept off the campaign trail, but he's continuing to deny happen with Stormy Daniels and basically call the whole thing, not -- not real. 
 
There is this looming question about whether this is going to impact voters at all. 
 
I mean, what is your sense in talking to voters and members of Congress and others about where we stand with that right now? 
 
KIGHT:  Yeah. I mean, most people I talk to say that a lot of the impact is already baked in when you look at the polls. Most of Trump supporters are going to remain Trump supporters. Most Biden supporters are going to remain Biden supporters. 
 
And it's unlikely at least at this stage, for these cases to really impact that. Of course, if this comes to a conviction, there have been some polls indicate that could sway some small numbers of voters against Trump, and, you know, the end of the day we are looking at a very small number of voters who are going to decide selection come November, we're looking at less than 10 percent of voters in what, six states. So whether we see this impact on the margins actually have an impact in November, we could see that potentially happen.
 
But by and large, we're not seeing this move the polls in any significant way, at least so far. And especially with this case, many votes we've seen in polls view, this case has less significant than some of the other cases against Trump. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah. And, of course, when -- my big question is, I mean, we learned from the judge that this is all obviously seems to be under Trump skin. I'm kind of wondering, let's take a look at how late night treated this last night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHEN COLBERT, COMEDIAN:  An historic day in the annals of American law, because this morning, Stormy Daniels took the stand and do what she does best and that spank Donald Trump.
 
JIMMY KIMMEL, COMEDIAN:  Stormy testified for three hours and 44 minutes today, and her testimony got off to an awkward start. The bailiffs were in on a rolled up "Forbes" magazine.
 
SETH MEYERS, COMEDIAN:  Adult film star Stormy Daniels testified today in former President Trump's criminal hush money trial. So Trump technically slept with her again. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  So we do know that being made fun of is not something Trump likes.
 
KIGHT:  Yeah.
 
HUNT:  What kind of impact does that have on him? 
 
KIGHT:  I mean, we certainly know that the Trump -- Trump team is annoyed by this. I think we can suspect that the former president is not happy with the way, you know, being made fun of to your point, it's something we know that he does not enjoy. He never has. He certainly doesn't right now. And even the fact that in the courtroom, he was already visibly upset, it's very unlikely this is going down well. 
 
HUNT:  Well, Stef Kight for us, thank you, Stef. I really appreciate it. 
 
All right. Coming up next, why the Biden administration decided to pause a shipment of bombs to Israel last week.
 
Plus -- tornadoes flattening homes, Michigan's governor declaring a state of emergency and police starting to clear out a pro-Palestinian encampment at George Washington University. 
 
Every piece of evidence tells a story how we really haven't. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:13:07]
 
HUNT:  Welcome back. 
 
A U.S. official says the Biden administration held back a shipment of bombs to Israel last week, concerned about the impact those bombs could have in a densely populated area like Rafah. Israel's military now controls the Gaza side of the Rafah crossing after a series of airstrikes and ground operation on Tuesday. 
 
As negotiators from Israel and Hamas meet in Egypt to negotiate a hostage release and ceasefire deal. And while CIA Director Bill Burns travels to Tel Aviv to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER:  Seizing the passage in Rafah today is a very important step, and important step in the way to destroying the remaining military capabilities of Hamas, including the elimination of four terrorists battalions in Rafah.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  All right. CNN's Max Foster is with us now live from London. 
 
Max, good morning. 
 
This is a pretty significant at revelation from the U.S. They withheld a total of 3,500 bombs. And again, these are two-ton bombs that they were concerned about being dropped on Rafah. 
 
We've also seen a public campaign in the UK from people trying to convince the UK government to withhold weapons like this. What signal does this send?
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  When it sends a very clear signal that they're uncomfortable with the operations go into Rafah, although we don't know what that operation exactly is, how widespread it is, and how many civilians might be affected. That's the fundamental concern of the U.S., of course. It's very hard to protect civilians when it's so densely populated and there's a military operation.
 
But I don't think it's much more than a signal because, you know, Israel is pretty well armed already. It can probably carry out an operation without these extra arms, but it's a very clear message that is main armorer, the U.S., is uncomfortable with the situation and it may threaten future operations if they continue to withhold these sorts of arms.
 <br>[05:15:10]
 
HUNT:  And, Max, let's dig into where ceasefire talks stand at this point, because there had been a sense that they might have been on the wrong track and then we've seen some developments over the course of the last 72 hours or so that have really called into question whether that's going, to be possible. We kind of walked through where the players are today in terms of trying to get there. 
 
What do you think are the main hurdles and what's the outlook for the next 24 hours? 
 
FOSTER:  Well, the questions being asked now really about the mediators and whether or not the -- you know, they're matching up the Hamas wants and what Israel wants at the same time, because there was massive signed up to an agreement. Israel said it's not the agreement that they initially had presented. This fundamental issue really about all long any sort of cease would last. 
 
You know, Hamas once it going into the future, Israel says it can't commit to that until they've destroyed Hamas. And in the background is what's happening in Rafah. So whilst that continues, it's very difficult to see how an agreement can be reached because it would mean an immediate end to that fighting and that's not something that Israel appears keen to do. 
 
HUNT:  What's your sense of how Netanyahu is reacting in the wake of the pause of the weapons shipment and the continual -- continuing pressure on him from the Biden administration not to go into Rafah?
 
FOSTER:  Well, as long as he can prosecute this war, presumably, you know, his strategy can play out to destroy Hamas, which she obviously thinks is present in Rafah, it's very difficult to lose support, public support, from your main backer, but his priority is keeping the war cabinet together and satisfying a key constituent, which is the far right, which thinks he's not going hard enough into Rafah. 
 
So, he's managing to juggle it for now because he's got enough arms, but it's not good for the optics. If he doesn't have that support from the U.S., although Biden will always say he's always there for Israel. So that fundamental support is there, and presumably he's painting this internally as a difference of opinion about the current strategy, but not a fundamental break and the relationship.
 
HUNT:  All right. Max Foster for us live in London -- Max, always great to have you. See you tomorrow.
 
FOSTER:  Thanks, Kasie.
 
HUNT:  All right. Coming up next here -- parts of Michigan in a state of emergency after a night of terrifying tornadoes.
 
Plus, why the judge in Donald Trump's classified documents case just to lay that trial indefinitely. 
 
And why Congressman Seth Moulton will join us to discuss the current state of Gaza ceasefire talks.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HUNT:  All right. Twenty-one minutes past the hour. 
 
Here's your morning roundup. 
 
Metropolitan police in D.C. starting to clear out the pro-Palestinian encampment at George Washington University.
 
Last night, the group marched from their encampment to the school presidents home, calling on her to come the negotiating table to discuss divesting from Israel.
 
Police are investigating the shooting of a security guard at the Toronto home of the rapper Drake. The guard has been hospitalized in serious condition. It's not clear whether Drake was home at the time. His team is cooperating with authorities.
 
And -- state of emergency and parts of Michigan after a powerful tornado swept through the southwestern part of the state, injuring at least a dozen residents of a mobile home park, and destroying homes and businesses in the area. 
 
In Portage, Michigan, just south of Kalamazoo, about 50 people were trapped in a FedEx building when a suspected tornado literally tore the roof off. And the severe storm threats continue today.
 
Our meteorologist Allison Chinchar tracking all of it for us. 
 
Allison, good morning. At what should people be prepared for?
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  Right. So, we are still anticipating additional severe weather as we go through the day to day. Again, that video coming from Portage, Michigan. You can see that FedEx building behind there is that tornado cant kind of came through that area, that it was one of several. 
 
In fact, we still have that main line, the same line that caused that tornado and several others still ongoing. The good news is most of the system itself has weakened a little bit. You've still got some strong thunderstorms, lots of lightning, essentially stretching all the way from Upstate New York back into Arkansas. 
 
You can see that southern edge of the line. That's where we still have the potential for some tornado. So you still have that tornado watch, that red color, you see there in effect. 
 
But we are likely to continue to see additional tornado watches start to get posted later on today. Now, just in the last 48 hours, 47 total tornado reports, 286 damaging wind reports, and 138 reports of hail.
 
The focus for today is going to be this wide swath here again, you can see it's a very large area, but the target point really extends from Nashville back into areas of Missouri. Some strong tornadoes, very large hail and the potential for some damaging winds as well. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Allison Chinchar for us, Allison, thanks very much for that.
 
Coming up next here, why a new ruling in Donald Trump's classified documents case could delay the trial past the November election. 
 
Plus, Gaza ceasefire talks at a critical stage, Democratic Congressman Seth Moulton joins this morning to discuss what comes next in the conflict, and President Biden's handling of the war.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HUNT:  All right. 
 
Just before 5:30 a.m. here in Washington, D.C., a live look at Capitol Hill on this one, same one. 
 
All right. Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us. 
 
A major development and Donald Trump's classified documents case. The trial has been postponed indefinitely. The judge, Aileen Cannon, canceling the May trial date yesterday, citing issues with classified evidence. The delay makes it unlikely the trial will start before the November election. 
 <br>[05:30:00]