Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Military Operations in the West Bank; Deadly Mosquitoes in the Northeast; Meet the Teenager Making Mountain-Climbing History. Aired 4- 4:10a ET

Aired August 29, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, superstars. It`s Thursday, August 29th. Happy Friday, Eve. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, and I`m feeling a bit 
 
 loquacious today, so I`m going to have to keep up the pace because we`ve got a lot of news to get to you in only 10 minutes to do it. 
 
We`re going to start with some headlines today. First, in the Middle East, Israel`s military carried out raids and airstrikes in the occupied West 
 
 Bank, killing at least nine Palestinians. Videos of the overnight raids showed bulldozers tearing up a street in a built-up area of the northern 
 
 city of Tulkarm, and a strike on what Israel officials said was a militant operations room in the refugee camp Nur Shams. Clashes have become more 
 
 frequent in the territory since the war in Gaza began last October, but this latest operation marks a significant escalation.
 
Israeli officials described the raids as a counterterrorism operation, while the Palestinian Authority condemned the operation as, quote, 
 
 "violation and crimes by Israel." 
 
Next, we head to the Northeast, where efforts to curb a deadly mosquito- borne virus have led to some objections. Bites from infected mosquitoes are causing a virus that leads to Eastern equine encephalitis, or EEE for 
 
 short, which the CDC says kills about one in three people who get it, and 50% of the survivors end up with lasting neurological damage.
 
Cases have been identified in Massachusetts, Wisconsin, New Jersey, Vermont, and New Hampshire. Because the mosquitoes that spread EEE are most 
 
 active at dusk and dawn, officials in Oxford, Massachusetts announced a voluntary curfew of 6 p.m. But members of public weren`t happy about 
 
 closing fields for youth sports. A change.org petition to keep the parks open has nearly 900 signatures, and a town board of health meeting on 
 
 Wednesday got contentious.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Please don`t do this to our kids. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We have 800 people find a petition.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  And finally, a headline that has some big old shoes to fill, paleontologists have found matching dinosaur footprints, more than 260 of 
 
 them, in Africa and South America. The footprints are similar in age, shape, and geological context.
 
Back then, 120 million years ago to be specific, the seven continents hadn`t split apart yet. Remember Pangea? So scientists say the findings 
 
 suggest that dinosaurs once traveled along their own version of a highway.
 
Pop quiz hot shot. 
 
Which landmark is also known as Chomolungma? 
 
Mount Everest, Ayers Rock, Kilauea, or Timbuktu?
 
Towering over the Himalayan mountains, you`ll find what`s known locally as Chomolungma, or Mount Everest. 
 
We want to introduce you to a teenager who`s making mountain climbing history. We traveled to Nepal, home to several of the world`s tallest 
 
 peaks, and home to Nima Rinji Sherpa, who only has one more mountain to climb in order to conquer all 14 of the world`s mountains that are over 
 
 8,000 meters tall.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Step-by-step this teenager is on his way to making history. 18-year-old Nima Rinji Sherpa is setting 
 
 his sights on the highest peaks in the world. 
 
After reaching 13, he`s aiming to become the youngest person to climb all the 14 mountains above 8,000 meters. Even though he comes from a community 
 
 of mountaineers, this is still a big deal.
 
NIMA RINJI SHERPA, MOUNTAINEER:  This is a very big advantage for the Sherpa community and even for me and for everyone. You know, like -- 
 
 because before this, you cannot -- you can`t imagine a teenager doing the 14 peaks, you know.
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Sherpas are an ethnic group native to the valleys around Mount Everest. And they`re often guides for mountaineers in the 
 
 Himalayas. They carry large loads like equipment and food, fixing ladders and ropes along the way. Always a dangerous feat.
 
And climbing such incredible heights also brings great risks. Avalanches, exposure and high-altitude sickness can easily take over and can be the 
 
 difference between a successful summit and never reaching the peak. But Nima Rinji Sherpa says his mental state is what keeps him focused and calm.
 
SHERPA:  I`ve kind of convinced myself, you know, like to be normally in the mountain. Like for example when I see avalanche or bad weather or when 
 
 there is an accident in the mountain I`m not in a hurry. I don`t get like nervous or something like that.
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Only about 40 people have reached all 14 peaks of what they call the eight-thousanders. They`re all in the Himalayan and 
 
 Karakoram ranges spanning China, Pakistan, Nepal and India. As the youngest climber, not only has Sherpa broken multiple records, his expeditions have 
 
 taught him a lot.
 
SHERPA:  I`ve learned so much things about nature, human body, human psychology, meeting new people, nature and, like, everything in the world 
 
 that I learned from the mountain.
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  With his sights set on one last mountain, Shishapangma in Tibet, he`s hoping to inspire others and develop 
 
 mountaineering into a professional sport. So whether he`s on the ground or on top of the world, Sherpa is set on breaking more barriers.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  We`re now taking a look at a non-profit in Northern California that pairs vulnerable young people with abandoned or abused dogs. Unchained 
 
 works primarily with juvenile correction facilities and teaches young people about dog training using positive reinforcement to better prepare 
 
 them for adoption. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Quincy, who`s that?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I was a troubled child. I would run around, cause a lot of trouble, in and out, incarceration. Most of the dogs didn`t really catch 
 
 my attention until I seen this boxer named Quincy.
 
MELISSA WOLF, FOUNDER, UNCHAINED:  When kids can contribute to giving a dog a second chance at a better life, we see the shift in them.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes, beautiful timing.
 
WOLF:  The Canines Teaching Compassion program, it`s an eight-week program. We have a skills curriculum. The kids use what`s called positive 
 
 reinforcement training. We partner with juvenile detention centers -- educational institutions, and nonprofit organizations serving youth. 
 
We don`t know their stories. What maybe put them in juvenile hall. You`ve got kids who have experienced a lot of trauma in their lives. And we get to 
 
 go in with a blank slate.
 
They may share a very similar story with their dog, that their dog has experienced neglect or abandonment or maybe abuse. Once they start applying 
 
 the positive reinforcements with the dog and teaching the dog and the dog is responding. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Nicely done.
 
WOLF:  Then there`s a lot of reciprocity that goes back and forth.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  She`s available. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: 100% available for adoption.
 
WOLF:  We know that when dogs are well trained and socialized, they have a greater chance at adoption. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Good job. 
 
WOLF (voice-over):  Since the start of our services, we have served more than 450 youth. Those youth have contributed to the adoption placement of 
 
 more than 220 dogs.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I learned a lot of social skills. I learned how not to be nervous and how to kind of control my emotions a lot. Working with 
 
 Quincy, obviously seeing him get a second shot actually gave me a little bit of hope.
 
WOLF:  Thank you for bringing this boy back to life.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right, for today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we head to Nebraska to check out a red-diculous collection of antique tractors. Look 
 
 at them. 51 of these old beauties are all owned by Wayne Dreessen. 
 
The collection includes some tractors that date all the way back to 1939. He has some modern ones too. Dreessen, who started farming right out of 
 
 high school, put the collection on display to celebrate his 80th birthday.
 
Congrats to my new TikTok friends from Ms. Bartel`s 10th grade English class in Boca Raton, Florida, for your #YourWordWednesday submission 
 
 yesterday. Loquacious, an adjective meaning talkative. Thanks for boosting our vocab and helping to write today`s show.
 
Today`s shout goes to Cupertino Middle School in Sunnyvale, California. Go on Bears, do your thing. Have a great Thursday. 
 
We`ll see you right back here tomorrow on CNN 10.
 
END