Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russian President Hosts Leaders of Emerging Economies; Moldova Backs Joining EU by Very Narrow Margin; Musk's Voter Lottery Draws Ire and Accusations of Illegality; Elizabeth Hurley Talks About Importance of Screening; Dolphins Quarterback Tua Tagovailoa to Return to Practice. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired October 22, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: World leaders arriving for the BRICS summit in Russia. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been seen as you can see landing in the host city of Kazan a short while ago. The summit of major emerging economies is a very public way for President Vladimir Putin to prove that Russia still has global allies despite Western attempts to isolate it.
 
Other prominent heads of state expected to attend are China's President Xi Jinping, as well as the Turkish, Iranian and Egyptian presidents. 
 
Our reporters are covering all the angles of the summit. Clare's here in London, but first we're going to go to Marc, who's live for us in Beijing. Obviously, the headline act here is China.
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Max. In fact, in the last few minutes, we've now been receiving reporting from Chinese state media that Xi Jinping has indeed arrived in Kazan in Russia. 
 
And as we await for some of the substance of this meeting, there is certainly a lot of symbolism for Xi Jinping and for Vladimir Putin as well. But there's certainly this way, this method, this notion that Xi Jinping can promote this idea that not everyone in the world sees eye to eye with the United States, with NATO and with the West, as evidenced by the long list of attendees at this summit. 
 
It's a way for Xi Jinping to really promote this idea that there is an alternative worldview to the West and that there are people supporting him. In fact, as we've reported, it is widely seen that Xi Jinping has really helped promote this idea of expanding the membership BRICS. In fact, in recent months, we have seen the addition of Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Iran and Ethiopia to the roster. In addition, other nations have been invited to participate as well, kind of on the periphery of all of this. 
 
Among the big points that we are watching, particularly from the China side of things, is this plan, this potential plan from Brazil and China to try to promote a peace plan to end the war in Ukraine. It's a six-point peace proposal that was unveiled last week -- or last month, I should say, at the United Nations. It was not warmly received by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, but that is something that we may see. China has long tried to portray itself, at least, as this objective party in this war in Ukraine. 
 
And of course, too, we'll be anxious to see if there are any kind of face-to-face meetings between any of these heads of state that could include a possible meeting between Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin, a bilateral meeting.
 
We have seen these two men meet frequently in recent months. Perhaps this backdrop in Russia will serve as another chance for Russia and China to have further conversations -- Max.
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: Marc, thank you. 
 
Let's turn to Clare, who's joining us in the studio. Clare, this BRICS meeting is clearly an attempt for Vladimir Putin to validate himself on a global stage to show that he can still summon support amidst global condemnation.
 
But what, if anything, will this summit achieve this week? Any tangible things?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I think that's the big question, because so far, I mean, the BRICS has yielded very little over the years of its existence in terms of actual deliverables. And I think, look, in terms of deliverables, the optics are really important. This is Russia, you know, hosting the summit. Last year he had to participate virtually because it was in South Africa, which is a signatory to the Rome Statute. Of course, we have the ICC arrest warrant out for Vladimir Putin. 
 
But he'll be the host. We see the leaders arriving on their planes. We're going to see a family photo. It really runs counter to Western efforts to isolate him. So I think it's worth emphasizing that.
 
In terms of deliverables, the BRICS don't always agree on everything. But one thing they seem to be coalescing around is this desire to erode the dominance of the U.S. dollar. So I think we're going to see some discussions of new different payment systems.
 
Russia is pitching one called BRICS Pay, which could be an alternative to SWIFT, which, of course, many of its banks have been disconnected to because of Western -- disconnected from because of Western sanctions. Take a listen to how Putin pitched that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We never refused the dollar as a universal currency. We were blocked from using it. Now 95 percent of all external trade of Russia, it is carried out with our partners and national currencies.
 
They did all this with their own hands. They thought everything would collapse, but no, nothing collapsed. It's developing on a new basis.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So this is a more confident Putin that we see this year. His army has the initiative in Ukraine, albeit amid staggering losses. Some of the alliances that you see on display are helping his war effort, China and Iran, case in point.
 
And it's an opportunity as well with the conflict in the Middle East to use the sort of lingering anti-U.S., anti-Western sentiment there as well to bring in more allies into this grouping and essentially build his coalition.
 
FOSTER: But BRICS have taken a lot of Russian money, haven't they? Frozen it, handed it to Ukraine. And that's part of the latest aid deal?
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
SEBASTIAN: So what the U.K. has done now is announced its contribution to basically a G7 plan to provide a $50 billion loan to Ukraine, which will be repaid using the windfall profits on Russian frozen assets. A little bit complicated, but this is how they've engineered it so that the Russian money isn't just sitting there earning interest while Ukraine is essentially running out of resources to fund its economy.
 
So we don't know -- we haven't got all of the loan in place yet, but this is the BRICS contribution. It'll be almost $3 billion, and it will be able to be used by Ukraine however they want. So obviously very much welcome going into winter when they have about a third of their energy producing, their electricity producing infrastructure still working.
 
On top of that, of course, we got the U.S. aid package as well announced during Lloyd Austin's visit yesterday, $400 million for weapons. And they expect, President Zelenskyy said, another $800 million to be funneled into Ukraine's own drone program. So we're seeing these commitments coming through from the West.
 
But of course, for Ukraine, the elephant in the room right now is the U.S. election and what that means for the future of aid.
 
FOSTER: Not long now.
 
MACFARLANE: Just two weeks to go. Clare Sebastian, thanks. 
 
Now, the former Soviet country of Moldova is a step closer to becoming part of the European Union. During a pivotal referendum, Moldovans voted to join the EU by an extremely narrow margin with just 50.4 percent in favor.
 
FOSTER: In a separate vote, the country's pro-EU president failed to secure enough support for an outright majority and will face a runoff next month. CNN's Anna Stewart has been covering both these critical votes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Moldova voted yes to the EU, but by a wafer-thin margin. It certainly wasn't the strong mandate that the incumbent President Maia Sandu had hoped for. She also didn't win an outright majority in the presidential election, which means she'll go for a second vote now on November 3rd.
 
Speaking after the results came in, the incumbent president spoke about the controversy around a Kremlin-backed organization buying votes.
 
MAIA SANDU, MOLDOVAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Their target of buying 300,000 votes documented by state institutions and paying 150,000 people to vote shows we must look closely at where mistakes were made and learn from this miserable attack on our sovereignty.
 
STEWART: Moldova has long been torn between Russian and Western influence. Russia's invasion of Ukraine really galvanized the EU movement and accession talks began in June of 2022. Now, these talks will continue, but the country appears divided, mired in corruption, which won't make the process any easier.
 
Anna Stewart, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Elon Musk's voter lottery scheme is drawing criticism from legal experts and lawmakers. Some have even called it illegal vote buying.
 
MACFARLANE: Musk is offering millions of dollars to voters who register to cast their ballots in swing states. Is it legal? 
 
FOSTER: We'll find out.
 
MACFARLANE: Brian Todd has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): New concerns being raised over how the world's richest person is throwing his money around on behalf of Donald Trump.
 
ELON MUSK, TESLA AND SPACEX FOUNDER: The next thing we'd like to do is to announce today's winner of the million dollar prize.
 
TODD (voice-over): Elon Musk has announced that he'll be giving away a million dollars a day randomly to registered voters, but it's only in seven battleground states and only if they sign a petition from Musk's super PAC saying they support the First Amendment right to free speech and the Second Amendment right to bear arms.
 
MUSK: And all you have to do is sign a petition in support of the Constitution. If you already believe in the Constitution, you're just signing something you already believe and you can win a million dollars. That's awesome. TODD (voice-over): But not so awesome to some election law experts and to the Democratic governor of Pennsylvania, one of those battleground states.
 
GOV. JOSH SHAPIRO (D-PA): I think it's something that law enforcement can take a look at, but it does raise some serious questions.
 
TODD (voice-over): Why might it be illegal for Musk to pay people to register and sign that petition?
 
DAVID BECKER, CENTER FOR ELECTION INNOVATION AND RESEARCH: Vote buying in this country has been a problem in our long history. It is criminal to offer payment or accept payment, anything of value in exchange for registering or voting. It's also been applied to when Ben and Jerry's wanted to offer free ice cream cones if you showed up with your I voted sticker.
 
TODD (voice-over): Musk has already given million dollar checks to at least two people in Pennsylvania where he's been stumping for Trump.
 
MUSK: So, by the way, John had no idea. So anyway, you're welcome. And --
 
TODD (voice-over): On ABC's The View, Kamala Harris's running mate Tim Walz slammed Musk's giveaway as a sign of desperation from their opponents.
 
GOV. TIM WALZ, D-MN, VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, I think that's what you do when you have no plan for the public, when you have no economic plan that's going to benefit the middle class.
 
TODD (voice-over): Musk has already given more than 75 million dollars to his own pro-Trump super PAC.
 
MUSK: Donald Trump has to be -- has to win this election. He really does.
 
TODD (voice-over): Analysts say the Justice Department could pursue charges against the billionaire for this million dollar giveaway. But --
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
DEREK MULLER, ELECTION LAW EXPERT, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME: You're putting the Department of Justice injecting itself into a hotly contested, disputed case of interpretation of a criminal law just weeks ahead of the election, which I don't think where the Department of Justice wants to find itself.
 
TODD (voice-over): Musk's side is saying the giveaway is legal, a job opportunity, because the winners have appeared in promotional videos and will serve as spokespeople.
 
BECKER: It certainly doesn't make it all better. There are laws around what constitutes work for hire, whether you're being paid fair market value for those kinds of things. TODD: If this giveaway is pursued further legally, would the recipients eventually have to give the money back? Analysts say that's not clear. One expert says there are rules saying that money that's been wrongfully taken does have to be given back. But he also says this situation with Elon Musk is uncharted territory. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Britain's King Charles met with indigenous community members in Sydney earlier today as part of his and Queen Camilla's first tour of a Commonwealth nation since ascending the throne. 
 
Not entirely sure, actually, the one where he is still head of state, at least, but he was in Kenya. 
 
It comes a day after a First Nations lawmaker confronted the royals in Parliament shouting, quote, you are not my king.
 
MACFARLANE: Well, the King and Queen haven't commented on the incident. But during a speech to lawmakers, King Charles acknowledged Australia's First Nations people who lived on the land for tens of thousands of years before the arrival of British settlers.
 
FOSTER: King Charles will head to Samoa for a Commonwealth leaders meeting after wrapping up his Australia trip. And I think similar issues are going to come up again, because every time there's one of these Commonwealth meetings, it's, you know, Britain's role in slavery, which is particularly a concern to the Caribbean. 
 
So I think he's got this challenge where, you know, he becomes a touch point for the empire and all that was bad about it, because there's a direct line from him, but it's actually the government that has to apologize or make it better somehow. He hasn't actually got much control.
 
MACFARLANE: A growing problem. Well, we'll wait and see what reception they receive there in Samoa. 
 
Now, an Australian woman is recovering with only minor scratches and bruises after a bizarre accident.
 
FOSTER: Yes, she dropped her phone between some rocks during a hike in the Hunter Valley, slipped, got stuck upside down. Seven hours.
 
MACFARLANE: Seven hours. Rescuers had to remove several heavy boulders to create a safe access point. Then they built a frame to stabilize the whole operation and used a winch to remove a 500 kilogram boulder. After all of that, the phone was not recovered.
 
FOSTER: You might hear it ringing as you're wandering through the park.
 
MACFARLANE: Seven hours, staring at your phone. Can you imagine waiting for help? FOSTER: It's quite extraordinary. And yes, like you said, story of our times in a way.
 
MACFARLANE: Sad tale of our times, I know.
 
FOSTER: If you drop your phone, you do not want to find it.
 
MACFARLANE: OK, after the break, long time advocate Elizabeth Hurley joins us to discuss what women need to know about breast cancer prevention and what we should be doing to protect ourselves now.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:45:03]
 
FOSTER: It's October. It's Breast Cancer Awareness Month. And according to the American Cancer Society, breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death for women in the U.S.
 
MACFARLANE: One in eight American women will develop the disease in her lifetime, with a 99 percent rate of survival if caught early. And the World Health Organization says breast cancer was the most common cancer in women in 157 countries out of 185 in 2022. But prevention can dramatically impact a breast cancer patient's outcome.
 
Actor and model Elizabeth Hurley has been working with the Estee Lauder Company's Breast Cancer Campaign Awareness for decades now. She joins us live from London. Elizabeth, it is a pleasure to have you on the show.
 
First, I just want to begin, Elizabeth, by asking you, because I think so many people are familiar with you as the face of breast cancer awareness, but not necessarily that you have been campaigning for them for nearly 30 years. Can I ask what it was that sparked your involvement in the charity in the first place?
 
ELIZABETH HURLEY, GLOBAL AMBASSADOR, ESTEE LAUDER BREST CANCER CAMPAIGN: Well, I started working for the Estee Lauder Company's 29 years ago. And right then, Evelyn Lauder, who started the Breast Cancer Campaign and indeed the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, came up to me on my very first shoot and said, will you help me with something else as well? Women all over the world are dying of breast cancer and no one is talking about it. And we're going to change that. 
 
And that was right back when they'd only just invented the pink ribbon, which Evelyn co-created. There was no Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Really, no one spoke about breast cancer at all. So, you know, I've helped them for 29 years, spreading the word, taking the taboo out of talking about breast cancer, trying to help women become more breast aware, talking about any preventative measures we can take, and of course, funding life-saving research. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation has raised more than a billion dollars for research. And it's because of that, that statistics are improving.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, talk to me more about what's changed in the time that you've been working for Breast Cancer Awareness and what has stayed the same as well?
 
HURLEY: Well, you're right, there are big differences. And sadly, some big similarities still. The differences are that there's been vast improvements in diagnosis, in treatments, and in life expectancy.
 
Mortality rates have decreased by 43 percent since the late 80s. And more and more breast cancers are being treated much early, which have a much better rate of survival. 
 
Sadly, women are still dying of breast cancer. And that's why we need more funds for more research to really finally make breast cancer a thing of the past.
 
MACFARLANE: And why is it, Elizabeth, that incident rates of breast cancer have actually increased? Is it just because women are, you know, more regularly checking themselves, more aware of it?
 
HURLEY: I think there's several reasons. And we don't know all of them, hence the research. But certainly, because the Breast Cancer Awareness campaign was so successful, so many more women are more breast aware, that they certainly are being encouraged to go to their doctor as soon as they think something might be wrong.
 
Not, unfortunately, like my late grandmother, who died in the early 90s of breast cancer, not being terrified and embarrassed if they find something different in their breasts and being too scared to go to the doctor. So initially, the campaign was all about that, saying to women, be breast aware, be aware of this thing called breast cancer. It's not something to be whispered about. It's something to run to your doctor about. 
 
And I think that happens more. And research scientists have told me that it's now much rarer in the U.S. and the U.K. to find a much further developed tumor. More likely, it will be caught early. And of course, more likely than it can be treated successfully.
 
MACFARLANE: And is it true that there appears to be a higher instant rate of breast cancer now in younger women? I mean, I don't mind saying I'm 41 years old, not necessarily young, but even I haven't really thought to check for breast cancer because I always assumed it was that, you know, something you need to worry about when you're slightly older, maybe your 50s. Is that true?
 
HURLEY: Well, it is certainly true that age is one of the risk factors of breast cancer. But it is also true that it would appear that younger women are being more frequently diagnosed than our record showed before. And you're right, this could be because people are more breast aware.
 
But also, I think what some of the research has shown us is that all breast cancers are different. 
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
When I first started talking about breast cancer, we just spoke about breast cancer. Now we know there are so many different types of breast cancer and some types of breast cancer can disproportionately affect certain people. Some of them could affect younger people.
 
We know there's a breast cancer that disproportionately affects Black women, triple negative breast cancer, which happens to be a cancer that also is harder to treat. 
 
So there's so much more knowledge about breast cancer now. And now it's all about putting that knowledge to the next step, which is finding even better targeted treatments. And they're in the works. We just, of course, always need to raise more money.
 
MACFARLANE: So much more to do. And Max, you wanted to mention something.
 
FOSTER: Yes, I've had friends who've had breast cancer, thankfully in remission. And it's amazing. You know, obviously, you know, the focus of everyone's care is around that woman with breast cancer, but it's so destructive, isn't it?
 
Around the woman as well. It has much more impact than a lot of people realize. Once you see it in reality, all the people around them are affected.
 
HURLEY: That's absolutely true. I mean, breast cancer affects literally everyone. I don't think I've ever met anyone who hasn't either been diagnosed and gone through treatment or lost a mother, a grandmother, or their sister, a friend, their wife.
 
I mean, it does affect everybody. I mean, in the U.K., the statistics are that one in seven women will be diagnosed with breast cancer. So, you know, you think of a class at school, it's a lot of women.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, and one in seven. I mean, my friendship group, I have six close friends. One of them in the last year was diagnosed with breast cancer. So that is an accurate statistic. 
 
Elizabeth, it's so great to have you on. And we really appreciate, you know, bringing us more information, keeping us up to date and continuing with the fight that you are doing. Thank you.
 
HURLEY: Thanks for having me. Thanks very much.
 
MACFARLANE: And we will be right back after this short break. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Miami Dolphins quarterback Tua Tagovailoa is set to return to practice on Wednesday. He missed the last four games after suffering the third concussion of his career last month.
 
MACFARLANE: If he clears concussion protocol, Tua could play in Sunday's home game against the Arizona Cardinals. The 26-year-old says he understands the risks and his choice is to return to football.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TUA TAGOVAILOA, MIAMI DOLPHINS QUARTERBACK: Do I want to be, you know, known for this? No, I don't. But that's the cards I've been dealt with, given the history of it. So it is what it is. I appreciate your concern. I really do. I love this game and I love it to the death of me. That's it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: He'll not wear one of the special guardian cap helmets that some think can help prevent those concussions.
 
MACFARLANE: The NBA season tips off tonight and many fans will be tuned in to the Timberwolves-Lakers game for the chance to witness league history.
 
FOSTER: Superstar LeBron James could share the court with his fellow teammate and son, Bronny. 
 
MACFARLANE: So cool. 
 
FOSTER: Our CNN's Andy Scholes has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRONNY JAMES, LOS ANGELES LAKERS GUARD: I'm always thinking about, you know, that's my dad because that's literally my dad.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR (voice-over): Bronny James and his world-famous dad making history this season. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
And it's been 20 years in the making. LeBron's legendary career has been defined not only by his basketball greatness, but also by his unwavering dedication to being a father. He's had his children Bronny, Bryce, and Zuri by his side during his NBA journey.
 
And in a 2014 CNN interview, LeBron said his motivation to be a great father comes from his dad not being there for him.
 
LEBRON JAMES, LOS ANGELES LAKERS FORWARD: My whole life growing up, I think I just kind of always said, why me? You know, why me? Why wasn't, why didn't my dad want to be around? I feel like I'm a pretty cool kid. I'm a good kid. Why wouldn't he want to be around for me?
 
And then as I got older and older and kind of had my own family, I started to think the reason he wasn't there is the reason why I became so strong mentally. So loving to my mother and I am who I am today because he wasn't there. Because I use it as motivation.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): LeBron and his wife Savannah had Bronny when he was just 19 years old in his second NBA season. And when Bronny started becoming a star in high school at Sierra Canyon, LeBron and Bronny playing together became more than a dream. But a frightening summer day in 2023 nearly derailed it all.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Your ambulance here now. 
 
OPERATOR: OK, all right, sir. All right, sir I'm going to send help there.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): Bronny went into cardiac arrest during a college practice and was rushed to the hospital. He would recover and after treatment was cleared to return to the court just over four months later. 
 
Bronny would go on to play for one season at USC and then he declared for the NBA draft where the Los Angeles Lakers would select him with the 55th pick in the second round.
 
L. JAMES: I know I'm super happy for him. Our family's super proud of him.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): Very proud but LeBron says they will need to keep it professional on the court. 
 
L. JAMES: We cannot be running down the court. And he'd be like, dad.
 
B. JAMES: It's probably going to be like Bron. Bron would be the easiest.
 
L. JAMES: That'd be the easiest.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): LeBron and Bronny shared the court in the preseason, a moment that LeBron called surreal.
 
And it's even more than that. LeBron and Bronny on the same court is the culmination of LeBron's legacy, symbolizing the merging of a generational talent with the joy and pride of being a dad.
 
L. JAMES: For a father, I mean, it means everything. I mean, for someone who didn't have that, you know, growing up to be able to be able to have that influence on your kids and have the influence on your son. To be able to have moments with your son and then ultimately, you know, to be able to work with your son. I think that's one of the greatest things that a father could ever hope for or wish for. So it's pretty cool.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Well, thank you for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster. I'm not sure my kids are going into my business having seen the shifts we do.
 
MACFARLANE: That's a random comment to end the show, appreciate it --
 
FOSTER: Well, it's just Bronny - Bronny --
 
MACFARLANE: Oh, right. OK, I got it. Got it.
 
All right. Thank you. This CNN "THIS MORNING" is up next after a quick break.
 
I'm being wrapped, apologies.
 <br>[05:00:00]