Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: CNN International: CNN Learns Mossad and Israeli Military behind Attack; Fed Expected to Cut Interest Rates for First Time Since 2020; Trump Holds First Rally Since Apparent Assassination Attempt; Europe Endures Deadly Flooding, Severe Wildfires; Astronauts Suit Up in High Style. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired September 18, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: This is the scene right now. You're taking a look at the border between Israel and Lebanon. There's a 
 
 tense comet this hour following that unexpected pager attack yesterday that injured thousands in Lebanon. CNN now reporting Israel was behind it.
 
It is 04:00 p.m. in Beirut, 09:00 a.m. here in New York. I'm Erica Hill in for my colleague, Becky Anderson, today. Thanks for joining me on "Connect 
 
 the World". Also, ahead for you this hour, the Fed expected to cut interest rates here in the U.S. We're going to take a closer look at that impact 
 
 just ahead.
 
Plus, Sean "Diddy" Combs back in court today after being denied bail. And we're hearing from Donald Trump for the first time since Sunday's apparent 
 
 assassination attempt, why the former president says he believes he was targeted. We begin this hour with Tuesday's brazen pager attack across 
 
 Lebanon.
 
CNN has learned that, in fact, it was Israel behind that attack. I do want to warn you, some of the video you're about to see is disturbing. That, of 
 
 course, the aftermath the scenes of chaos at hospitals in Lebanon after thousands of pagers exploded at the same moment, the attack targeted 
 
 members of the Iranian backed militia, Hezbollah.
 
Here's what we know at this hour, 12 people were killed, including two children and nearly 3000 were wounded. CNN has learned the attack was a 
 
 joint operation between Israel's intelligence agency Mossad and the Israeli military. A Lebanese security source says Hezbollah bought the pagers in 
 
 recent months.
 
"The New York Times" reporting Israel planted explosives and a detonation switch next to the battery in each device. The IDF and Mossad, though, are 
 
 not confirming taking part in that attack. Hezbollah, for its part, vowing to retaliate. CNN's Ben Wedeman has more now from a hospital where many of 
 
 these victims were treated.
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Almost 200 people injured in the pager blast that occurred Tuesday afternoon were treated 
 
 here at the American University of Beirut Medical Center, where the chief medical officer told us that even though there were women and children 
 
 among the injured, the vast majority were young men.
 
Thousands of people were injured in the apparently simultaneous pager blast that took place at about 03:30 in the afternoon Tuesday in areas where 
 
 Hezbollah has a strong presence. Now here outside the hospital, friends and relatives of those injured are waiting for news, not surprisingly, most do 
 
 not want to appear on camera.
 
But off camera, one told us, for instance, that a friend of his received a message on his pager. He picked it up, looked at it, and it exploded in his 
 
 face, damaging his eyes and his fingers. Another individual who said he was a supporter of Hezbollah told us that despite these injuries, morale within 
 
 the group is still high, and that those who were injured will soon return to the front.
 
Now, Thursday afternoon, Hezbollah Leader Hassan Nasrallah is expected to comment on the events of Tuesday. But on Wednesday morning, Hezbollah put 
 
 out a statement saying that there would be hard atonement awaiting the so- called criminal enemy that was behind what they described as Tuesday's massacre. I'm Ben Wiedemann, CNN reporting from Beirut.
 
HILL: Also, with us this hour, Jeremy Diamond in Tel Aviv, Paula Hancocks joining us from Abu Dhabi. Jeremy, I want to start with you. So, as I 
 
 noted, no official comment yet from the Israelis, but I know CNN has learned more details about how Israeli intelligence gained access to these 
 
 pagers. What more can you tell us about that, and also the timing here, Jeremy?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, I have learned that this was a joint operation between the Mossad that is Israel's intelligence 
 
 service, as well as the Israeli military, and we are getting some indication about exactly how this happened.
 
Initially, there were questions about whether this could have been an entirely remote operation, or whether Israeli operatives had actually 
 
 planted something inside these pagers. And that's what "The New York Times" is reporting, is that a small amount of explosives was placed inside 
 
 thousands of these pagers that are made by a Taiwanese company.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
That Taiwanese company has now said that this specific model of pagers that was ordered by Hezbollah and imported into Lebanon was actually 
 
 manufactured in Hungary. So still some questions about exactly where in the process these explosives were planted inside these pagers.
 
But there's no question that the result of this was an extraordinarily sophisticated and an extraordinarily deadly attack as well. The death toll 
 
 has now risen to 12 people who were killed. In addition to that, at least 2800 people have been injured by this blast, about 300 of whom are still in 
 
 critical condition today, according to Lebanese health officials.
 
In many of these cases, it appears that the individuals received a message on their pager, and when they picked it up to look at it, at that point, 
 
 that pager then exploded, which is why we're seeing that so many of these injuries appear to be to the head, to the eyes, in addition to those that 
 
 are to the abdomen or the groin area, for those pagers that were in people's pockets, for example.
 
Now one other question that we have at this point is, why? Why now did the Israeli government, the Israeli military, the Mossad decide to carry out 
 
 this attack? And there are some reports indicating that some Hezbollah members had begun to suspect that those pagers had been tampered with. And 
 
 therefore, it was perhaps simply a matter of either carrying this attack out now or losing this edge altogether.
 
But ultimately, what is clear is that Israel was able to exploit something that Hezbollah thought was a way to evade Israeli surveillance, and that 
 
 was by going to these low-tech pagers in order to communicate with each other and prompt Hezbollah operatives to use the internal communication 
 
 systems, rather than cell phones that Hezbollah operatives may have used in the past.
 
And in this case, that effort to go low tech to avoid Israeli surveillance ended up being a major vulnerability which the Israelis were clearly able 
 
 to exploit here. And so now we have to ask what will happen next. Hezbollah has vowed that there will be a heavy price to pay for this attack, which 
 
 they have squarely blamed on Israel of course.
 
The Israelis we know are, once again, it seems that a heightened state of alert troops from the 98th division being redirected from Gaza to the 
 
 Northern Front. No indications right now that this will explode into that all-out war between Israel and Hezbollah that has been feared for so long, 
 
 but certainly we are once again at a renewed state of heightened tensions, Erica.
 
HILL: Yeah, absolutely. Jeremy, thank you. Paula, when we look at as Jeremy said, it does raise the question of what's next? There's also the broader 
 
 implication in the region, and also efforts, of course, to push through any sort of a cease fire deal in Gaza, Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, in 
 
 Cairo today. Is there a sense that what we saw yesterday in Lebanon could, in fact, impact some of those negotiations?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erica, I think it's fair to say that nobody is talking about the ceasefire hostage deal today. Everybody is 
 
 talking about what has happened in Lebanon. That is where the focus is at this point. So inevitably, the question is a vital one, will this have an 
 
 impact on these negotiations, which are believed to have effectively stalled at this point.
 
Certainly, even within the Biden Administration, the optimism that was there at the beginning of the month that there could be a final bridging 
 
 proposal imminently certainly isn't there anymore. We've had two Biden senior officials saying that they don't have imminent plans to put this 
 
 proposal to the U.S. President to approve so they're not there yet.
 
Now, the Secretary of State, though, was at pains during a press conference in Cairo to point out that this was a key reason for him to go to Cairo. 
 
 They were talking about a strategic dialog, but also inevitably, talking about the final details of this potential plan with a key mediator Egypt. 
 
 He was unsurprisingly asked about the pager explosions in Lebanon. Let's listen to his answer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: With regard to Lebanon, the United States did not know about, nor was it involved in these incidents, and 
 
 we're still gathering the information and gathering the facts. Broadly speaking, we've been very clear, and we remain very clear about the 
 
 importance of all parties, avoiding any steps that could further escalate the conflict that we're trying to resolve in Gaza, to see it spread to 
 
 other fronts.
 
It's clearly not in the interest of anyone involved to see that happen. And that's why, again, it's imperative that all parties refrain from any 
 
 actions that could escalate the conflict.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
HANCOCKS: So certainly, from the U.S. point of view and others in the region, there is a hope that this does not signal an escalation in this 
 
 conflict when it comes to work within Lebanon at the moment, we know the difficulties at these hospitals. We've heard our colleague Ben speaking 
 
 about it as well, how they're overwhelmed.
 
And we've seen a response from the region. We've seen medical supplies coming in from Iraq, Iran and Jordan, for example, trying to help Lebanon 
 
 deal with what the health minister called this mass casualty event, but it is really a case of wait and see at this point, Erica, as to whether or not 
 
 this could have a direct impact on the hostage ceasefire deal, which, as I say, does appear to be somewhat stalled at this point, or whether this 
 
 could meet that we do see increased tensions along the border.
 
Hezbollah has pledged, it will retaliate, but of course, its ability to do so, at least in the near term, appears to have been compromised, Erica.
 
HILL: Yeah, absolutely Paula, appreciate it. Thank you. You likely notice the QR code on the bottom of your screen. We're going to put it up for you 
 
 again right there. If you scan that, that will bring you directly to our "Middle East Newsletter". Be sure to sign up for it. It covers the biggest 
 
 stories coming out of the region, top newsmakers, analysts.
 
You can scan that code again on the bottom of your screen, and it will be delivered to your inbox three times a week. All eyes on the U.S. Federal 
 
 Reserve today, because it is expected, of course, to cut interest rates for the first time since the height of the COVID pandemic back in 2020.
 
And years of high rates have helped to slow inflation here in the United States. Now, though, with U.S. job market weakening, it appears the Fed may 
 
 stimulate the economy by lowering rates. So, it's worth noting here is only in the past few weeks, at the U.S. central bank has clearly signaled it is 
 
 ready to make that cut.
 
You know that Wall Street, of course, will be listening closely to what Fed Chair Jerome Powell has to say a bit later today, you're taking a look at 
 
 the futures markets there, of course. Joining me now my colleague, Julia Chatterley. So, Julia, as we watch this, the real question, I think, is, 
 
 how big will this rate be? Not if, but how much?
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE: Yes, and the unique, or one of the unique elements of this is that we actually don't know Erica. It's the 
 
 first time they're going to cut rates in four years. It's what two months out from a presidential election. And yet, we're still not sure quite what 
 
 they're going to do today, beyond the fact that, as you quite rightly said, they will cut.
 
Right now, the majority of analysts think they'll cut by around a quarter of a percentage point. Investors far more optimistic. They see a far bigger 
 
 chance of a half a percentage point cut. And that leaves us now questioning either way. The important point is Jay Powell is going to have to explain 
 
 the decision that they make.
 
So, we're going to watch what he says about inflation risks, what he says about the jobs market, ultimately, but crucial for me too is how low can 
 
 rates go ultimately. We're going to get a whole bunch of forecasts here, and that's ultimately what matters to American borrowers.
 
It matters for our money to understand how far rates will come down and how quickly, because that's going to impact a whole host of things, like credit 
 
 cards, mortgages, auto loans, you name it.
 
HILL: And in terms of that, yes, investors are watching this closely. Yes, everybody in the finance community, everybody on Wall Street.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yeah.
 
HILL: But when it comes to consumers, as you rightly point out, it's loans, it's mortgages and it's their credit card debt. Talk to me about the 
 
 broader impact here. If we're talking 25 basis points versus 50, that's a difference.
 
CHATTERLEY: It is a difference. Ultimately, it's not going to make such a big difference Erica, and that's why it's the end game for rates that 
 
 perhaps matters more than these incremental cuts. Yes, it's going to have an impact on all of these things. Credit cards is a great example.
 
It will filter into what banks charge. But right now, the average credit card rate is around 25 percent whether they cut a quarter or half, it's 
 
 going to be 24.9 percent, these things are so expensive you're barely even going to feel the move. Mortgages' is another example. We're already at 
 
 what 18-month lows for a 30-year mortgage rate.
 
We've seen them come down already. Today will be good news if you have an adjustable-rate mortgage if you have a home equity line of credit, because 
 
 they'll tick lower. Another one to mention would be, I think auto loans, astonishingly expensive right now. That will trickle into lower rates, but 
 
 it also depends on what you're buying.
 
It depends on your credit history, so I think it will be a welcome relief and an incremental basis for some of these things, but don't expect it all 
 
 immediately.
 
HILL: Yeah.
 
CHATTERLEY: I think the most important thing is for savers, very quickly, Erica. Now is the time, if you have money that you want to invest, to lock 
 
 in a high savings rate. It's above inflation, and these things will come down. So, there's opportunity today for those people that have the 
 
 opportunity.
 
HILL: Yeah, it's such a great point. And ultimately, in all of this, as we know, and you know, perhaps better than anyone reporting on this for so 
 
 long. Right now, it's also about how people feel. So, it'll be interesting to see psychologically what a rate cut does for people, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: -- great point.
 
HILL: Yeah, appreciate it as always. Still to come here after just one night behind bars, Sean "Diddy" Combs heading back to court to make a plea 
 
 that he led out on bail.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Plus, Donald Trump, speculating on what just could be motivating the recent attempts on his life, what he thinks he's doing right that people don't 
 
 like.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: In the coming hours, Sean "Diddy" Combs will be back in court, this time to fight the judge's decision to hold him without bail. Now, if the 
 
 music mogul's appeal is denied, he will be sent back to the federal detention center, where he spent last night. On Tuesday, a federal judge 
 
 ruled Combs would remain in custody while he faces sex trafficking and other charges.
 
Combs' attorney asked that his client be released on bond and placed on home detention prior to trial. Prosecutors, however, argued Combs should 
 
 not be freed because he had previously reached out to witnesses and victims. Here's CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister with more of the details in this 
 
 indictment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Sean "Diddy" Combs, one of music's biggest stars, ordered behind bars after 
 
 pleading not guilty to a sweeping federal indictment, charged with racketeering conspiracy, sex trafficking and transportation to engage in 
 
 prostitution. The grand jury indictment accuses the music mogul of running a criminal enterprise over decades.
 
DAMIAN WILLIAMS, U.S. ATTORNEY FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK: Between at least 2008 and the present, Combs abused threatened and coerced victims 
 
 to fulfill his sexual desires, protect his reputation and conceal his conduct.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): Combs was seen dining out in Manhattan Friday before his arrest on Monday night in New York. According to the U.S. 
 
 attorney prosecuting the case.
 
WILLIAMS: Combs allegedly planned and controlled the sex performances, which he called freak offs, and he often electronically recorded them.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): Hotel surveillance footage obtained exclusively by CNN back in May appears to corroborate some of the allegations of abuse 
 
 against the rapper. Now cited in the new indictment. The video captured on multiple cameras, shows Combs wearing only a towel, assaulting his then 
 
 girlfriend, Cassie Ventura at a Los Angeles hotel in March, 2016.
 
Combs has repeatedly denied multiple allegations against him, saying that his accusers are looking for money, but he issued an apology for his 
 
 conduct on the video only after it came to life.
 
SEAN "DIDDY" COMBS, MUSICIAN: My behavior on that video is inexcusable. I take full responsibility for my actions in that video. Disgusted. I was 
 
 disgusted then when I did it, I'm disgusted now.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): His attorney responding.
 
MARC AGNIFILO, ATTORNEY FOR SEAN "DIDDY" COMBS: He's going to fight this with all of his energy and all of his might and the full confidence of his 
 
 lawyers. We're appealing the decision to hold him without bail.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): Combs faces a mandatory minimum sentence of 15 years imprisonment, and could face life in prison if convicted.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
WILLIAMS: In addition to violence, the indictment alleges that comes threatened and coerced victims to get them to participate in the freak 
 
 offs. He used the embarrassing and sensitive recordings he made of the freak offs as collateral against the victims.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): The criminal charges come as Combs faces 10 civil suits, all filed over the last year, nine of which accuse him of sexual 
 
 assault. He has previously denied the accusations of abuse, saying I did not do any of the awful things being alleged.
 
In March, authorities searched Combs' homes in Los Angeles and Miami as part of a months' long federal investigation by a team that specializes in 
 
 human trafficking crime that led to today's indictment. Among the items seized firearms, including three AR-15s, ammunition, more than 1000 bottles 
 
 of personal lubricants, such as baby oil and video evidence of freak offs, according to the indictment.
 
WAGMEISTER (on camera): Now Cassie, who is Diddy's ex-girlfriend, who was shown in that disturbing hotel surveillance footage declined to comment on 
 
 these new charges against Diddy. I reached out to her attorney, who says that they will not have anything to say about this indictment, but we have 
 
 heard from some of the accusers and their attorneys.
 
Aubrey O'Day, who is a singer from the band Danity Kane, which is a band that Diddy formed on his MTV show, making the band here is what she had to 
 
 say, quote, I feel validated. Today is a win for women all over the world, not just me. Things are finally changing.
 
And Tyrone Blackburn, who is an attorney who represents three Diddy accusers who have filed civil suits against him, said that this was the 
 
 first step for justice, quote, we knew this was coming. The evidence is very clear, and it was only a matter of time. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: All right, thanks to Elizabeth Wagmeister for that report. Well, the countdown now just 48 days until the U.S. presidential election, the 
 
 candidates back out there on the campaign trail, hitting those key battleground states. Democratic nominee Vice President Kamala Harris 
 
 visiting Pennsylvania on Tuesday, where she attended an event hosted by the National Association of Black Journalists in Philadelphia defending the 
 
 Biden Administration's economic policies. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S., (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We came in during the worst unemployment since the great depression. We came 
 
 in during the worst public health epidemic in centuries. We came in after the worst attack on our democracy since the Civil War. And a lot of it due 
 
 in large part to the mismanagement by the former president as it relates to COVID and obviously January 6th.
 
And we had been a lot of work to do to clean up a mess. As of today, we have created over 16 million new jobs, over 800,000 new manufacturing jobs. 
 
 We have the lowest black unemployment rate in generations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Harris offering some general ideas, as she has done, about her own economic plans, but once again, largely avoiding specifics, as for Donald 
 
 Trump, well, for his part, he spoke to an arena full of supporters in Michigan on Tuesday night, promising to protect the state's automotive 
 
 industry, talking about steep tariffs on products from China and Mexico.
 
But again, not as many specifics on his part either. The event was billed as a town hall. This was Trump's first campaign appearance since that 
 
 apparent assassination attempt on Sunday. In his remarks, he implied that his economic policies may actually be making him a target.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You know, only consequential presidents get shot at. When I say something 
 
 like that, you have countries saying this guy, but what can you do? You have to do. You have to do what you have to do, right? You have to -- we 
 
 have to be brave. Otherwise, we're not going to have a country left.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: We get now from CNN's Steve Contorno. Steve, in terms of what else we heard from the former president last night. Look, he's in Michigan for a 
 
 reason. This is a key state, of course, moving forward. And was that message specific enough for Michigan voters?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Erica, he certainly tried to make the case that his economic policies will improve the lives of people in that state. 
 
 And he continued to turn again to the central argument of his economic plan, which is tariffs and trade wars. He was asked a question, for 
 
 example, how he will bring down the cost of food and groceries?
 
And he said that he would suggest eliminating the amount of foreign food that is brought into the United States. I think a lot of economists would 
 
 say that would actually raise prices. But Trump once again doubling down on this idea that foreign products are hurting U.S. prices.
 
He also said that he would put a 200 percent tariff on foreign cars coming into the United States, especially once produced by China in Mexico.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
Take a listen to what he told these Michigan voters who are very, very tuned in to the issue of the automobile industry.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: They think they're going to make their cars there, and they're going to sell them across our line, and we're going to take them and we're not 
 
 going to charge them tax. We're going to charge them I'm telling you right now, I'm putting a 200 percent tariff on which means they're unsellable.
 
Unsellable in the United States, you're going to be as big or bigger than you were 50 years ago, because they won't be able, if they're not willing 
 
 to build a plant, we don't want their product.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CONTORNO: Trump also spoke to the second apparent attempt on his life, and was largely unfazed by it, as evidenced by that clip that you played where 
 
 he sort of joked that this is what happens when you have consequential policies.
 
HILL: Steve, there's also, we're learning a little bit more about this meeting between Donald Trump and the Acting Director of the Secret Service. 
 
 Of course, Donald Trump, after that attempt on Sunday, praise the Secret Service and how quickly they acted. What do we know about the discussion in 
 
 that meeting?
 
CONTORNO: Yeah, we're told that it was a pretty matter of fact meeting where the acting director went through some of the enhanced security 
 
 protocols that they are going to attempt to ensure that the former president is safe. One of those includes some caution, though, from the 
 
 Secret Service that Trump's love of golf, the fact that he loves getting out there and playing on his own courses, is a security threat.
 
And they are saying that, you know, there will be -- while they were hoping for a substantial security enhancement around his golf. They also sort of 
 
 warned that, you know, this is a very risky venture. There's a lot of area to protect. There are public roads nearby, and that if he wants to continue 
 
 playing golf, it might come with some additional risk.
 
HILL: Yeah, and we know that something that Secret Service for a number of presidents has always been a bit of a stressor in terms of protectees on a 
 
 golf course. Steve, appreciate it. Thank you. Much more ahead here on "Connect the World". We'll take a short break. We're back on the other 
 
 side.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
HILL: Half past the hour now, updating you on our top story. CNN has learned the pager explosions in Lebanon, targeting members of Hezbollah 
 
 were actually part of a joint operation between Israel's military and intelligence services. Lebanon's Health Minister says 12 people were killed 
 
 in that attack.
 
2800 others injured. Schools in Lebanon have been ordered to stay closed today in the wake of the explosions. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh has more now on 
 
 this attack, and I do want to warn you, the report does contain some graphic images.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): At the fruit display, at the checkout in the street. Hard to overstate the psychological impact of hundreds of blasts across Lebanon, 
 
 mostly in Hezbollah areas, pagers exploding at about 330 according to the group. Security forces asking Lebanese to stay off the road so the sheer 
 
 volume of emergency vehicles could get to hospital.
 
Nearly 3000 patients, at least 170 critical. Easily the most widespread moment of violence to hit across Lebanon since the 2006 war with Israel, 
 
 who Hezbollah is now firmly blaming for these new attacks on their TV channel. We blame the Israeli enemy with full responsibility, the TV anchor 
 
 said.
 
For this criminal attack that also harms civilians. Israel themselves declined to claim the attack to blame, perhaps these tiny devices, 
 
 according to posts on social media, CNN can't verify the race now to work out, how was it just one type of device, a cyber-attack, a battery bomb?
 
Did they just hit Hezbollah areas? It comes at yet another critical time. Monday, Israel's Defense Minister hinted meeting the U.S. envoy, that the 
 
 time for a diplomatic solution of how to get tens of thousands of Israelis home to the war plagued north had mostly passed, that a military option is 
 
 all that remains.
 
The hope had been for calm after the death of Hezbollah Commander Fuad Shukr also killed in a violation of Hezbollah's stronghold in Southern 
 
 Beirut, led to great fury, but minimal fire, with Hezbollah's retaliation restrained perhaps by preemptive Israeli strikes, many felt the moment of 
 
 conflagration had passed.
 
Now, it seems back again, with Hezbollah once more under pressure to hit back hard. But only because another sophisticated attack has made them look 
 
 weak. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: We are also continuing to follow the developments on the severe weather and flooding across Central Europe. Storm Boris, of course, the 
 
 impact from that. Forecasters now say three tornadoes touched down in Italy on Tuesday, and they do predict Northern Italy is really going to feel the 
 
 brunt of the torrential rainfall.
 
Today you can see it swirling there on your screen, parts of Hungary. You're looking at pictures here now from Hungary already, of course, hit 
 
 hard by the storm. This is the aftermath. People in this village getting around in boats until that water recedes. Cresting rivers also expected to 
 
 present additional trouble throughout the weekend.
 
In neighboring Austria, the flood damage has the government working to shore up more than $1.1 billion in federal disaster relief. Here's CNN's 
 
 Melissa Bell with more on this extreme weather hitting Europe.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Death tolls are continuing to rise in several parts of Europe as a result of extreme 
 
 weather conditions. First of all, as a result of some of the havoc that's been caused by storm Boris in parts of Eastern and Central Europe.
 
Some of the worst hit areas along Poland's border with the Czech Republic, where towns have been evacuated, bridges have collapsed, and there are 
 
 fears that there could be more damage to come in some parts of Central Europe, it was a month worth of rain that fell in a matter of just days, 
 
 with many of those parts of Europe simply unprepared for the amount of water that fell from the sky.
 
We've seen dams burst, bridges collapse, and tens of thousands have to be evacuated already, with much of that chaos now spreading southwards to 
 
 parts of Europe along the Danube. There are also fears about the wildfires that have gripped parts of Portugal in the center and the north of the 
 
 country. Portugal and Spain, that have been for many years now subject to forest fires over the course of ever heating summers.
 
This summer, not so bad for those parts of Southern Europe, but it is the late surge in temperatures over the course of the weekend that appears to 
 
 have caused several of those wildfires to start many thousands of firefighters involved in several parts of Portugal in trying to put them 
 
 out, but fears still that they could continue to spread. Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
HILL: Well in sports headlines, Manchester City hoping to get the better of Inter Milan once again tonight, the two tams -- the two teams rather 
 
 preparing for a rematch of that 2023 Champions League final -- preview just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: Welcome back. Let's take a quick look here at U.S. stocks, of course, the market opening about seven minutes ago, basically flat at this hour. 
 
 Wall Street, of course, waiting on this key interest rate decision from the Federal Reserve coming later today, that, of course, could impact some 
 
 movement on the market.
 
Once we do get that decision, many economists looking at this and what they are expecting is forecasting a quarter point reduction. It would, of 
 
 course, be the first rate cut in basically four years. There is growing speculation, though this morning that perhaps the rate cut could actually 
 
 be double cutting at 50 basis points.
 
Lower rates, of course, mean that it will be less expensive for borrowers to get money, that in turn, tends to lead to increased spending. The Fed, 
 
 of course, had been waiting to act until inflation cooled to a measure that made them more comfortable. And while that has happened, there's also been 
 
 slowing the job market here in the U.S.
 
So that's creating an unusual amount of uncertainty over the Fed's decision. We're continuing to monitor, of course, not just the markets, but 
 
 to watch that decision, and bring all of that to you right here on CNN. September's full harvest supermoon, shining brightly on Tuesday night, 
 
 reaching its fullest at 10:30 p.m. Eastern time.
 
It will appear full though through Thursday morning. I can confirm it looked full in the wee hours this morning on my way into work. Sky gazers 
 
 around the world may have noticed an apparent bite, though taken out of the moon on Tuesday evening that is due to a partial lunar eclipse.
 
Up next on the night sky's agenda, October's full hunters, supermoon. And while we're talking all things in space, how about a little astronaut 
 
 fashion? It's getting quite a facelift. Earlier this month, SpaceX debuted, of course, these snazzy outfits worn by the Polaris Dawn crew.
 
They perform the first ever commercial spacewalk. So not to be outdone, a French designer is unveiling a new look for European astronauts. Here CNN's 
 
 Saskia Van Dorn.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SASKIA VAN DORN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A French fashion house, is getting involved in spacesuits of the future. Designer label Pierre Cardin 
 
 has designed a training suit for European astronauts.
 
MATTHIAS MAURER, GERMAN ASTRONAUT: My name is Matthias Maurer. I'm a European astronaut working at European Astronaut Center in Cologne, the 
 
 only place where European astronauts train for space missions.
 
DORN (voice-over): The spacesuits prototype has been unveiled in Paris at the Pierre Cardin workshop. The goal was to create a suit for the European 
 
 Space Agency's new training ground for lunar missions, minus all the high- tech engineering needed in space.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
MAURER: A spacesuit is like a small spaceship. It has air system, it has cooling systems, it has radio system, it has navigation system. It has a 
 
 lot of different equipment. This year is just for training. This is only to be used in Cologne on the ground. But we can learn a lot just training with 
 
 the suits.
 
DORN (voice-over): Pierre Cardin's grandnephew Rodrigo who took over the company after the founder's death in 2020 developed comfortable, movable 
 
 fabrics that could withstand the extreme temperatures on the lunar surface.
 
RODRIGO BASILICATI-CARDIN, CEO OF PIERRE CARDIN: I'm very so happy finally, because, you know, after one year and a half to this work, to arrive here 
 
 and it is not finished, but it's a big step.
 
DORN (voice-over): After additional tweaks, the suits will be used in lunar, which is the moon's surface simulation building at the European 
 
 Space Agency base in Cologne, Germany. The simulations will continue ahead of their planned mission to the moon in 2028. Saskia Van Dorn, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: Well tonight, Manchester City set to play their first match in the Champions League this season, against a familiar opponent, Inter Milan. The 
 
 teams, of course, met in the final in June of 23 city victorious in that matchup. Amanda Davies joins me now with more. A lot of excitement 
 
 surrounding this rematch.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, very much. So, I was lucky enough to be there in Istanbul. Two Champions League finals ago, the first time, 
 
 Manchester City finally got their hands on European club football's biggest prize and completed the European treble of trophies.
 
But it's fascinating. Ahead of this matchup, this has been a change of format to the competition this year. It's fair to say, whilst the changes 
 
 have been brought in to please some of the money men, some of the fans, some of the players aren't happy because it means extra matches, extra 
 
 commitments on their schedule.
 
And one of Manchester City's most influential players, Rodri, rather than reminiscing about the great night in their history, is saying the players, 
 
 perhaps are contemplating a strike. So, we DAVIES want more on that and what was a fantastic night, last night of opening night of Champions League 
 
 action coming up in just a couple of minutes in "World Sport".
 
HILL: All right, we are looking forward too. Take a quick break here. We'll see you then.
 
DAVIES: Thanks.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END