Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Jill Biden Unveils White House Christmas Decorations; New Nutrition Trend; Closing Arguments in Daniel Penny Trial. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired December 02, 2024 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:34:40]
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN HOST:  At any minute, closing arguments are set to get under way in the trial of Daniel Penny. That's the former Marine accused of putting Jordan Neely in a fatal choke hold on the New York subway back in 2023. 
 
Now, we want to warn you, the video we're about to show you is disturbing. Penny faces one count of second-degree manslaughter and criminally negligent homicide after he restrained the 30-year-old homeless man in what prosecutors say was a deadly choke hold for six minutes even after Neely stopped moving. 
 <br>[11:35:09]
 
Penny's defense claims he was doing it to protect bystanders. 
 
Gloria Pazmino is following this case outside the courthouse. She joins us.
 
So, what do we know so far? 
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Pamela, there's been a long delay this morning, but we are hearing that the jury has finally entered the courtroom this morning, a sign that they are likely about to get started. 
 
Now, there was a long delay this morning over a motion made by the defense telling the prosecution and the jury in this case that they plan to play 911 calls and video during their closing arguments. The prosecution was very opposed to this because the defense wanted to show edited portions of that material. 
 
So that's just a reminder of how much of this case has been about bystander video, as well as what people there reported to have seen and heard. And that's important because the full sequence of events that led to Daniel Penny putting Jordan Neely in that fatal choke hold was not captured on video. 
 
We only see the aftermath. Now, the defense will go up first to deliver their closing statements, and they have focused on justification, that Daniel Penny wanted to protect passengers from a threat placed by Jordan Neely, as well as causation, that it was not the choke hold that killed Jordan Neely, but rather a combination of other factors, including the fact that Neely was high on K2 at the time and that he suffered from sickle cell disease, as well as the fact that he was experiencing mental illness. 
 
Now, the prosecution has argued that Penny had no intention of killing Neely, but that by using the choke hold maneuver that he used, he disregarded the risk. Now, they say that Penny was well aware of this risk because he was trained on it as a Marine veteran. He knew exactly just how dangerous this maneuver could be if you put a person in it. 
 
They also showed evidence that showed that he did not let go even after being offered help by other bystanders to keep Neely on the floor. If he is convicted, Mr. Penny is facing up to 15 years in prison, if he is convicted of the criminal -- of the mass slaughter charge and up to four years if he's convicted of the criminally negligent homicide. 
 
It looks like jurors will start hearing those closing arguments any minute -- Pam.
 
BROWN:  All right, Gloria Pazmino, thanks so much. 
 
And still ahead for you this hour:  It is a new appetite and nutrition trend that has people voluntarily piercing their skin with monitoring devices. 
 
Our CNN health correspondent tried it for herself. She's going to join us next to tell us what the experience was like and whether she recommends it. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:42:16]
 
BROWN:  Well, continuous glucose monitors have become a crucial tool for people living with diabetes. These wearable devices help people monitor sugar levels in the blood with real-time updates. 
 
Well, now these devices are also being marketed as wellness tools for everyone, even those without diabetes. 
 
CNN's Meg Tirrell wanted to find out what that means and how they work. 
 
So, Meg, you tried it out for six weeks. What did you find? 
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  I did, Pamela. 
 
I was a little nervous about this. It looks like a needle on one of these things. And you're putting it onto your arm. It can also be worn on the abdomen for people with diabetes. But you kind of -- you click this thing on, and then essentially a little wire lives under your skin for -- these sensors last for two weeks. 
 
So I did three different sensors over six weeks. And within an hour, you're starting to see your glucose levels come through on an app on your phone in real time. The idea behind these things for people without diabetes is that you can see how you react to different foods, to exercise, to sleeping patterns, to stress, and maybe make changes that could lead to sort of a more healthful life. 
 
And so I wanted to see how that worked. But what I found was that it made me extremely anxious. When I could see the immediate reaction to what I was eating on my phone, it made me not want to eat something like an apple, for example, because I could see a big spike afterwards, whereas, if I had a cheese stick or an egg, I wouldn't see that kind of spike. 
 
But does that necessarily mean that an apple is less healthy for me than a cheese stick or an egg? I mean, when I looked at something like a piece of pizza or a bowl of ice cream, that wasn't particularly surprising to see a spike like that. But that's the kind of thing. 
 
The idea is, will you see something unique to you? And talking with our colleague Dr. Sanjay Gupta, he has actually tried this along with his wife, Rebecca, and they have found that they have unique reactions to different foods, so much so that he's actually made changes for himself. 
 
I have to say, though, Pamela, once I got over my anxiety, mostly what I felt was apathy about what I was seeing. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BROWN:  Fair enough. 
 
I actually did this as well for a few days a few years ago, because I kept waking up in the middle of the night hungry. So I was, like, wondering what was going on, and I tried the glucose monitor. And I was pretty shocked to see how certain foods, like -- I guess it's not surprising, but cereal, for example, something I would have every morning, how it would impact my sugar levels. 
 
And it did cause me to change my habits. But I also, like you, had a lot of anxiety and wanted -- I was like, wait, I shouldn't eat that because it spiked my sugar on things that like an apple,where you maybe should be eating more of. 
 
So where does the evidence stand on keeping glucose levels low for people who don't have diabetes? 
 
TIRRELL:  That was the thing I was so curious about. 
 
Does this little increase that I'm seeing with the apple matter? Because it was still within what the app was telling me is a healthy range of glucose. And what I found through talking with researchers and with doctors across the board here is, it kind of depends who you ask. 
 <br>[11:45:08]
 
And when that's the response to a scientific question, what it really means is that the science is pretty early. You talk to some folks, and they think, yes, absolutely, no question. Keeping your glucose levels lower and avoiding even those kinds of spikes within the healthy range for people who don't have diabetes is a good thing. 
 
But then you talk with other folks who are treating people with type 2 diabetes or with obesity, and they say, we're not really sure. We don't know what the data actually show yet. 
 
So the science is early. This can lead to behavioral changes, though. And, for some folks, that's enough. It is expensive, though, $89 per month. 
 
BROWN:  Oh, that's important to note as well. 
 
Meg Tirrell, thanks so much. 
 
We will be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:50:24]
 
BROWN:  Well, today, Dr. Jill Biden will carry on a Washington tradition that dates back decades, as she unveils the White House's Christmas decorations. 
 
And Americans caught their first glimpse at how first families celebrate the holidays back in the '50s. That's when Mamie Eisenhower took steps to boost the Christmas spirit at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. Jackie Kennedy would later introduce themed White House Christmases, which continues to this day. 
 
And along the way, we have seen gingerbread houses like this one with Nancy Reagan in 1987. And even the first pets have gotten it on the action. Here's the Clinton's cat Socks with his very own stocking. A White House historian tells CNN that the first ladies often incorporate causes that they personally champion into the decor.
 
Michelle Obama did so here with a tree adored with cards and ornaments from an initiative that supported military families. And in the age of social media, even the White House Christmas designs can't escape critiques. These cranberry topiary trees from Melania Trump sparked a lot of commentary online. 
 
A Season of Peace and light is the 2024 White House holiday theme. And here's a glimpse of some of the year's seasonal decor. First lady Jill Biden is set to officially unveil the White House decorations later today. The White House says more than 300 volunteers from across the U.S. helped decorate the presidential residence. 
 
One of those volunteers is Dawn Ahner, who joins us now. She is also the owner of Ahner Florist and Greenhouse in New Baden, Illinois. 
 
So, Dawn, you're there at the White House. You have been busy at work decorating. You're there now. The work is done. You're there for a reception. What was this experience like for you? 
 
DAWN AHNER, OWNER, AHNER FLORIST AND GREENHOUSE:  Oh, it's absolutely wonderful. 
 
We have been here for a week. And there's a lot of hands to make this absolutely beautiful and stunning. So you're designing. You're fluffing trees. You're fluffing garland. It takes all hands on deck, but it's been absolutely amazing to be able to do this. 
 
BROWN:  So tell us a little bit more about why you wanted to volunteer, how this all came about for you. 
 
AHNER:  Sure. I'm glad to be able to talk about that. 
 
Being able to decorate something as iconic as the White House, with all the leaders and the dignitaries that have been there, it just was really a dream to be able to decorate something like this. And so I was able to accomplish it, and it was a wonderful experience. 
 
BROWN:  What was your favorite part? Is there a decoration that's your favorite? Tell us. Bring us in. Bring us inside the White House. 
 
AHNER:  Sure. 
 
I was actually privileged to do the Vermeil Room. It's just a beautiful, soft room with all the first ladies portraits in there. And so to be able to do that with having the first ladies look upon us, it was pretty special. 
 
It's really magical, because, when you come in, everything is blank. And when we leave, it's just a wonderland. 
 
BROWN:  Tell us a little bit more how that happens, right, how you sort of bring it alive into a wonderland and how everything is sort of organized and orchestrated with all of these volunteers. 
 
AHNER:  The first two days were actually at a warehouse, and so we're getting things prepped for the rooms. 
 
So it's a -- the first two days are pretty busy. Then, on the third day Wednesday, we actually move into the White House. So we have to bring all the boxes and stuff in to be able to do this. And then we have an actual game plan. So then we kind of go off the game plan. 
 
So, for as a -- as a floral designer, it's to me to be able to achieve this plan. 
 
BROWN:  You know, not many people get to take part in such a joyful tradition for this country that has gone back many decades.
 
AHNER:  Correct. There was 179 volunteers. 
 
BROWN:  Say that again. 
 
AHNER:  There was 179 volunteers here. 
 
BROWN:  Wow.
 
AHNER:  So it was pretty amazing to be chosen out of 3,000 applicants out of 179. 
 
BROWN:  How did -- do you know how they whittled it down, how they chose the volunteers? 
 
AHNER:  No, I really don't. 
 
Well, you filled out an application. And so, hopefully, something on my application stand out to them, thinking that I'd be able to be useful for them. 
 
BROWN:  So you're there right now. You're going to go to a reception. Tell us a little bit more about what you're most looking forward to being there and what's ahead for you. 
 
AHNER:  Well, to be able to have a lunch with all the volunteers is pretty amazing. The friendships and the bonds that you make with these new friends is pretty neat, actually.
 
There's people from all around the United States. So I have new friends all over now the country. 
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
BROWN:  That's wonderful, right? I love that. 
 
AHNER:  Yes.
 
Dawn Ahner, thank you so much. I hope you have a great time. You worked so hard. Now you get to celebrate at the White House. Pretty cool. 
 
Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us. I'm Pamela Brown. You can follow me on Instagram, TikTok and X @PamelaBrownCNN. 
 
Stay with us. "INSIDE POLITICS WITH DANA BASH" starts after a short break.