Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump Has Until Tomorrow To Post $464 Million Bond In NY Fraud Case; Chicago Files Lawsuit Against Gunmaker Glock; Huge Crowds Mourn Terror Attack Victims At Russian Concert Hall; Israel Agrees On US Proposal On Prisoner-Hostage Exchange; FAA Stepping Up Oversight Of United Airlines; Blizzard Watch In Midwest As Snow Intensifies. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired March 24, 2024 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[19:00:00]
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: On hand but if he can't put up that cash by tomorrow's deadline, you know, we could see again the New York attorney general turn her attention to things like Trump's bank accounts, things like Trump's properties. And we've already seen what some say is the first step or the first sign that the New York attorney general is eyeing some of Trump's properties in New York, namely a golf course and a private estate putting in -- filing a judgment that does seem to indicate that she could move on to seize those assets if Trump cannot post a bond by Monday's deadline. 
 
Now look, there's also still the question of what an appeals court might do on this matter. Trump is asking the appeals court to intervene to allow him to post a smaller bond or potentially none at all. So that's still an open question. And the potential for intervention does exist. 
 
But Trump also has developments tomorrow in his criminal case in New York. That's the one dealing with hush money payments that were allegedly paid to porn star Stormy Daniels in order to allegedly cover up an affair she had with Donald Trump before the 2016 election. You know, that trial was supposed to start on Monday, but instead we're going to see a pretrial hearing where Trump's lawyers are going to argue that the case in the trial should be further postponed as they deal with some discovery issues. 
 
The judge has already indicated that that trial could be postponed until at least mid-April. But if the judge did not buy the arguments by Trump's legal team tomorrow, we could see the judge set a trial date for potentially as soon as next month. And if that does happen, that would be the first of Trump's criminal cases to go to trial and potentially the only one we could see go into trial before the 2024 election. 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN HOST: Yes, we will see what happens. We'll know soon enough. Zach Cohen, thanks so much. 
 
Joining me now is the former engineer for Trump construction projects, former executive vice president for the Trump Organization, and author of the book, "All Alone on the 68th Floor: How One Woman Changed the Face of Construction," Barbara Res. 
 
So thank you for joining me tonight. From your experience working with him, I just want to get into the mindset a little bit here. How important is it for Trump to keep his image of being the successful and rich businessman? What do you think is going through his mind tonight ahead of this bond deadline? 
 
BARBARA RES, FORMER ENGINEER FOR TRUMP CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS: Well, I think he's like so angry that this is happening to him. He's looking for someone to blame. It is very important to him that he keep up this fantasy about him being the greatest businessman. And that's what he's concerned about now I'm sure. Maybe the election, but probably not even, thinks he's going to win. He wants to keep that face, the public face. 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And look, we have seen the proceedings and how they play out in court, whether on the civil or criminal side, impact what we've seen on the politics side, and how he's being perceived by those who would potentially vote for him in November. 
 
Now, look, over the last few months, he's appeared to enjoy going to court for that reason, sort of using it as political capital, even seeing high poll numbers following those appearances. Do you think that changes tomorrow when it actually comes down to the money he has or do you think he'll continue to capitalize off of some of these legal troubles? 
 
RES: Yes, I know he's saying on his Web site or whatever is it, and publicly that he has money and his lawyers are saying no. I think that Trump would like the world to think he has the money. And they're going to try to delay this thing as long as possible. And, you know, the answer to that going after his personal property and stuff and what will that -- have that affect them. Yes, I don't know. We're not anywhere near that step yet. 
 
But Trump really does not want to look like a loser, so to speak. And as far as these cases are concerned, I think he's still enjoying it. Even when he goes tomorrow. They're persecuting me. Look, they're going after me. I mean, he's die-hard. People don't care if he -- whatever he did, he just don't care. The more convictions the more people say about him, the more, you know, accusations it just cements their fervent belief that people are against Trump because they wanted, they want to kill democracy, they want to, you know, change everything and go, you know, black whatever Web stuff. And they will stick with him, he'll be in jail, they'll be sticking with him. 
 
JIMENEZ: Well, and that of course the timeline of all this becomes a major question, too, because obviously we're in an election year, not just the civil fraud case that we're talking about here, but also he'll likely learn the trial date for the hush money case tomorrow as well here in New York. His team has been trying to delay that case and succeeded once already. 
 
But along with the other criminal trials he's facing, how important do you think it is that he faces the realities of these cases and in some cases, the discipline stemming from these cases before the November election? 
 
RES: First of all, again, they're going to try to push it as far as they can, and they may succeed to some extent. 
 <br>[19:05:02]
 
As far as monitoring and adjusting his posture, it's not going to happen. It's too late. Those days are gone. He's a loose cannon, but he still believes, he still believes that he's going to get away with all of this. 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And I think -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JIMENEZ: Yes -- no, I think what I was going to say was that, you know, you mentioned it earlier that he had falsely claimed he had $500 million in cash. His lawyers quickly clarified he does not have that cash on hand, which does, of course, have some impact as so what his lawyers have argued in court as well. He said he wanted to use that money for his campaign. Bottom line the way that the justice system does seem to be coming down on him in this manner, but it does not appear that he seems to have learned anything at least from the judgment in this case. 
 
What's your read on his posturing given everything that we're supposed to find out over the next 24 hours? 
 
RES: Well, again, I mean, you know, first of all, he does believe he's going to get away with everything. Second more, no matter how much comes down, how many people believe it, he's going to lie. I didn't do it, I have $500 million on this, on that, they're going after me. He thought he's going to be constant. And I think what he wants to do, does he believe it? No, he does not believe he's going to go to jail. He does not believe he's going to lose his properties or anything else. He's Trump. 
 
JIMENEZ: And on that point, I mean, obviously, you know, you were former engineer for Trump construction projects here, one of your many roles. One of the possibilities is that some of his properties could be seized as part of this judgment. Is there a property that you think will hurt him more than the others, that if this goes, you would say to yourself, wow, that one was particularly important to him. 
 
RES: Well, you know, years ago, it was Trump Tower, he'll never lose Trump Tower. It's his name. That's his name. I don't believe that anymore. As far as the other properties are concerned, now I heard one of the kids saying that they grew up in the West Chester golf course property. Nonsense. They were growing up when they bought that. As s far as that's concerned, the only thing I can figure out was maybe Mar-a-Lago. 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. 
 
RES: That he might really, really want to hold on to. But, again, you know, whatever happens, he's going to spin it. That it was intentional. Bankruptcy is more (INAUDIBLE), and all that stuff. So it's kind of (INAUDIBLE), I hate to say it, but it sad for our country where we're going. 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. Well, we will see what happens. We're going to get a lot of answers I think over the next 24 hours. And again, it will be critical to see sort of where the New York attorney general begins with some of those seizures if we get to that point, whether they go straight for bank accounts or they start going towards the properties which is a little bit more, it takes a few more steps to actually make happen. 
 
Barbara Res, thank you so much for taking the time. Really appreciate it. 
 
RES: Anytime. Thank you. 
 
JIMENEZ: Of course. 
 
Still ahead, the city of Chicago is now suing to hold the gun maker Glock accountable, saying that some of their guns can easily be turned into illegal machine guns. We're going to speak to the managing director for Everytown Law, the gun safety advocacy group next about the effort to curb gun violence. 
 
You're in the CNN NEWSROOM. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:12:58]
 
JIMENEZ: Indiana law enforcement officials say one person is dead and five others were injured including an off-duty police officer in a shooting outside an Indianapolis bar early this morning. Now two off- duty Indianapolis metro police officers were working security at a bar when the disturbance erupted into the parking lot and gunfire was exchanged. The officers involved are now on administrative leave as the investigation continues. This is the second mass shooting in Indianapolis in just a week. 
 
Now, nearby, the city of Chicago has filed a lawsuit in Cook County Circuit Court to hold the gun maker Glock accountable for manufacturing and selling pistols that the lawsuit says can easily be turned into illegal machine guns with modifications called Glock switches or switches that are made by third parties. 
 
Now the lawsuit alleges these fully automatic modified Glocks are showing up across the country, and that Chicago Police have recovered more than 1,000 such guns in the Chicago area in just the last two years. 
 
So joining us to talk about this lawsuit and the growing problem of modified guns is Alla Lefkowitz. She's managing director for Everytown Law, the noted gun safety advocacy group. 
 
So welcome. Thank you for taking the time. Your group has described this as a first of its kind lawsuit. How so? ALLA LEFKOWITZ, MANAGING DIRECTOR, EVERYTOWN LAW: Well, it's the first
 
 of its kind lawsuit in two ways. First, it's the first lawsuit to use Illinois' Industry Accountability Law, which was passed last year to hold the firearms industry accountable for the consequences of a bad conduct. And the second wave of the first of its kind lawsuit, it's the first lawsuit against the major gun company for essentially knowing that it has this problem, that its firearms can be turned into machine guns, and refusing to do anything about it even though they know and we know that this problem can be fixed. 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. 
 
LEFKOWITZ: And I think what you said right off the bat exactly the right point. These are -- we know for a fact that over 1,000 modified Glocks have been recovered on the streets of Chicago in two years. Like that is 1,000 machine guns that are being used in crimes. I mean, that's just unacceptable. 
 <br>[19:15:07]
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And look, I mean, I covered Chicago for a long time and that was a dynamic that we were seeing over and over again. I should also mention to everyone watching, we've reached out to Glock on this issue and have not heard back just yet, but a spokesperson for the National Shooting Sports Foundation, which is the Firearm Industry Trade Association, told me this lawsuit is the definition of frivolous and, I'm going to quote him here, "There's no product defect in this design. The illegal aftermarket products are not Glock products. They in fact are legal to possess and illegal to attach to a firearm." 
 
So, Alla, is it Glock that needs to be tamped down on or is it the illegal aftermarket products like these switches? 
 
LEFKOWITZ: Well, the problem I have with that comment from NSSF is it assumes that there can only be one problem that is causing, that is causing the gun violence and that is causing Glocks be used in this way. And I think we can all see that actually there's more than one cause and a major cause of this are the fact -- is the fact that Glocks are uniquely susceptible to being modified in this way. They have known about this problem. They are refusing to fix the problem. 
 
And I guess what I don't really understand about that, about that approach to the issue is, if you are the company that is contributing to this problem, and know you have a fix that could result in less people dying, why you wouldn't make that fix? 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. Yes. Well, it will be interesting to see, you know, how they respond, Glock does, if they eventually do. At the very least, I mean, they have to in court. So we will watch for that. 
 
Now you mentioned the Illinois Firearm Industry Responsibility Act passed in 2023 that basically says gun manufacturers that engage in unsafe and unlawful marketing and sale will be held accountable. I'm essentially paraphrasing from JB Pritzker's office. But that's part of what you're alleging here, right? How does marketing play into your lawsuit? LEFKOWITZ: Well, I think it's the way that the firearms are made. The
 
 weight of the firearms are distributed, and the way that, of course, as you say, the way that firearms are marketed, one of the things that we alleged in the lawsuit, is there a couple of gun stores in Chicago or around the outskirts of Chicago that are known for, you know, engaging in illegal sales, and for -- and Glock, instead of cutting them off, has continued to sell through those stores, even though it knows that those stores are contributing to illegal firearms being found in Chicago. 
 
JIMENEZ: And look, your group says these legal conversions allow a pistol to fire, you know, it's fast or even faster than many machine guns used by the U.S. Military. And to be clear, a Glock isn't selling or marketing these switches, but you're arguing that they know about this vulnerability and that some switches that, you know, may pop up with their logo on it, even if not authorized, that Glock should be doing more to the point where you believe it's now crossed into negligence. Does that feel right on what you guys are pursuing here? 
 
LEFKOWITZ: Absolutely. Absolutely. One of the things that our complaint alleges is that Glock has actually known about this problem since the 1980s. They've known that their pistols can be modified in this way. And they've known for a while that it can be fixed. And yes, that fix will likely cause a slight increase in price for the company. But that's not a good enough reason to make the fixed when so many people are being injured and dying from these machine guns. 
 
I mean, one of the reasons, you know, one of the things you'll see in our complaint that we took pains to point now is the real-life impact this is having on people. One of the stories that we highlighted in the complaint is a story of a family where there are two young kids getting gas at a BP station, and all of a sudden behind them a gun fight, you know, erupts, 61 shell casings. They had to flee for their life with their young children in their car. 
 
And our complaint is full of stories like that. So, again, you know, the goal here -- the goal of this lawsuit, and the point of this lawsuit is that Glock could stop this if it simply change, made simple changes to the way that its gun is made. 
 
JIMENEZ: Now, look, just from a broad scope here. I mean, you're not the first to try and sue members of the gun industry, at least to help with the lawsuit toward the gun industry. While there has been some success on that front, it is a pretty tall task to actually succeed in many of these lawsuits, and I'm curious from your perspective, while every case is different, why do you think this one is so I guess likely to succeed or in particular a place that you feel you can have some success? 
 
LEFKOWITZ: Yes, it's true because gun makers have special protections from the federal government, it is in fact much harder to sue gun companies for the wrongdoing that they commit. 
 <br>[19:20:12]
 
However, we feel confident in this lawsuit. It's incredibly well- researched. There are -- you know, we have shown what Glock has done wrong here. How it has impacted Chicagoans and public safety. And again, the existence of that new Illinois law that was passed is also important. That provides a new avenue to maintain the lawsuit despite the federal protections that they have. So for all these reasons, we --you know, we think we're going to be successful in this lawsuit. 
 
And by the way, I doubt that we're going to be the only ones that file lawsuits against Glock. Because as you know and as you already pointed out, modified Glocks have been turning up around the country. So many neighborhoods have been devastated by these machine guns that I, you know, I think Glock is really going to feel the pressure here. 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. Well, we will see what happens. We are at the beginning of this legal process, which, as you know, a lot of these take time but you got to start them nonetheless. So we'll watch to see what Glock responds with either in court or to us. But for now, Alla Lefkowitz, thank you so much for your time and perspective. 
 
All right. Still ahead, missiles light up the Ukrainian night sky after Russia launches a retaliatory attack while Poland is demanding an explanation after one of those Russian missiles entered its airspace. Plus mourners traveling up to 1,000 miles after at least 137 people were killed in a terrorist attack near Moscow. CNN was on the street as people gathered to pay their respects. We'll have all that and more coming up. 
 
You're in the CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:26:11]
 
JIMENEZ: Today major airstrikes between Ukraine and Russia and an alarming foray into Polish airspace. First, bright orange explosions over Kyiv, Russia hitting back after Ukraine claims it struck two Russian naval carriers in a huge overnight attack. Ukraine says it hit a key port that Russia took from Ukraine in 2014. Meanwhile, Poland says a Russian cruise missile entered its airspace for 39 seconds, causing the Polish Air Force and its allies to scramble jets. Now Poland says it will demand an explanation from Moscow on what happened. 
 
New tonight as well, France is raising its terror alert to the highest possible level after this weekend's terror attack outside Moscow. Today was a National Day of Mourning in Russia following that attack, with massive crowds flooding the streets of Moscow. They're remembering the more than 130 people killed in that attack. Some mourners traveled as far as the thousand miles to honor the dead. 
 
ISIS is claiming responsibility and posted a graphic video they say shows its members' ruthless rampage. We're choosing not to show that video. But so far, Russian President Vladimir Putin has not named ISIS, only saying terrorists detained by Russian Security Services attempted to flee to Ukraine. 
 
Now this is -- we got a look at some of the suspects arrested by police, blindfolded and being led into Russian Security Services headquarters. 
 
CNN chief global affairs correspondent Matthew Chance is in Moscow with more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, you join me outside the Crocus City Hall near Moscow, where on Friday night gunmen killed at least 130 people inside that prominent concert hall. You can see thousands of people have now turned out from around Russia to pay their respects, to lay flowers, cuddly toys as well out of respect for the children who were affected. 
 
It really is a major event that has affected this country and it has fed feelings of instability amongst ordinary people. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEKSANDRA RUDENKO, MOURNER: I feel terrible about all the violence that exists in our world. 
 
CHANCE: Yes, in our world. And in Russia as well. Do you feel safe in Russia? 
 
RUDENKO: Yes, I think so. Not today because of this -- 
 
CHANCE: Attack. 
 
RUDENKO: Attack can be in every country. And I think that it is a problem of all world. 
 
CHANCE: And do you feel safe in Russia now? You still feel safe or there's just so many things happening, you feel a bit more insecure? 
 
MAXIM TKACHEV, MOURNER: You know, I don't know how to answer that question properly but all I can say is that terrorist attacks, they're a worldwide problem, so this topic, well, it's not safe to feel when there are terrorist in the whole world so I should say, well this -- 
 
CHANCE: This is part of broader -- a broader problem. 
 
TKACHEV: Yes, yes, yes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHANCE: You can see Orthodox priests have come out to deliver prayers at this memorial as well. This as investigators inside the burned-out rubble of the concert hall are still going through the debris and are still saying that they're finding bodies, and so the death toll could rise. 
 
In terms of the investigations, while the authorities say at least 11 people have been taken into custody including the four suspects who they believe carried out the actual shootings inside the Crocus City Hall. Of course, ISIS said they carried out this attack, but the Russian president Vladimir Putin, who is vowing revenge, calling it a barbaric act has said that it could be linked with Ukraine, something Ukrainian government has categorically denied. 
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, at the Crocus City Hall, Moscow 
 <br>[19:30:13]  
 
JIMENEZ: Matthew Chance in Russia, thank you so much.  
 
We are also learning more about potential step forward in hostage negotiations between Israel and Hamas. New tonight, Israel has reportedly agreed to a US proposal that would exchange for 40 hostages held by Hamas in Gaza for the release of about 700 Palestinian prisoners by Israel, including a hundred who are serving life sentences for murder.  
 
There has been no word from Hamas yet, but CNN senior White House reporter Kevin Liptak joins us with more.  
 
So, Kevin, what are you learning? What is the latest here?  
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, this is a key development because this issue of the ratio between the hostages and the Palestinian prisoners that would be released as part of this deal has been a key sticking point in these talks going back weeks.  
 
So the idea that there are some numbers on the table that are now being hashed out does give you a sign that this is quite a key development, but when you talk to American officials, certainly they are very clear that we have been in position before where we thought a deal was imminent only to see it fall apart.  
 
And as you mentioned, we have not heard from Hamas yet on what their response to this is, so we will have to wait and see, but it does sort of set out quite a critical week, not just for the trajectory of this conflict, but it is also a test of American influence on Israelis as this conflict proceeds, and what you will see this week is two separate, but very senior level delegations coming from Israel to Washington to meet with senior American officials to discuss this conflict.  
 
The Israeli Defense minister left today for meetings in the beginning part of this week with his counterpart, Lloyd Austin, he will also meet with the Secretary of State Antony Blinken. He will meet with US National Security adviser, Jake Sullivan. So critical meetings expected to center around Israel's weapons needs as part of this war.  
 
Then later in this week, there will be a separate delegation led by a top confidante to the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, to discuss Israel's plans in Rafah, that city in Southern Gaza, that Israel says is necessary to launch a ground invasion, to go after Hamas that has caused some serious consternation here at the White House.  
 
And you'll remember, Omar, last week, President Biden got on the phone with Netanyahu to tell him to send a delegation to the United States to discuss some alternatives to a ground invasion. Now since then, what you've heard from Netanyahu is really doubling down and emphasizing that that is the only way to go after Hamas, and that has caused a great deal of consternation here at the White House, including from the Vice President Kamala Harris who spoke about this issue today. Listen.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We have been clear in multiple conversations and in every way that any major military operation in Rafah would be a huge mistake.  
 
Let me tell you something. I have studied the maps. There is nowhere for those folks to go, and we are looking at about a million-and-a- half 5 people in Rafah who are there because they were told to go there most of them.  
 
And so we've been very clear that it would be a mistake to move into Rafah with any type of military operation.  
 
RACHEL SCOTT, ABC NEWS: Are you ruling out that there would be consequences from the United States?  
 
HARRIS: I am ruling out nothing.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
LIPTAK: So not ruling out consequences and certainly behind the scenes, American officials have been discussing how they would respond if Israel were to launch a ground invasion in Rafah. It is not clear exactly what those consequences would be, and it is also not clear whether these delegations who are in Washington this week will discuss them, but certainly a very critical stretch of days for this conflict and for the American involvement in it.  
 
JIMENEZ: And it highlights what seemed to be a growing place of tension over recent weeks, especially. Kevin Liptak, an area to keep an eye on, thank you so much.  
 
LIPTAK: Sure.  
 
JIMENEZ: Still ahead, the Federal Aviation Administration is stepping up its oversight of United Airlines after a string of safety incidents, plus the FBI tells Alaska Airlines flyers they may be victims of a crime months after that door plug flew off of a plane during their flight. We break it down next. You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[19:38:55]  
 
JIMENEZ: The Federal Aviation Administration is keeping a closer eye on United Airlines. This comes after nearly a dozen safety incidents so far this month, including a Boeing jet that landed with an external panel missing and another one that lost a wheel during takeoff as you see there.  
 
So joining us now, CNN transportation analyst and former inspector general of the Department of Transportation, Mary Schiavo. Thank you so much for being with us.  
 
So I want to start with why do you think the FAA is getting involved now and what is this inquiry's oversight going to look like?  
 
MARY SCHIAVO, CNN AVIATION ANALYST: Well, the FAA is getting involved because United, in addition to the incidents that you mentioned, they have had several others, an engine caught fire, they had a hydraulic fluid leak, any one of these things could be minor or it could have been very major.  
 
And the federal aviation administration, when an airline has a series of incidents, accidents, or occurrences, can do what is called a Certificate Holder Evaluation Process, a CHEP and it is a national evaluation of how the airline manages safety, if it is following all the rules and regulations and most important, if there are risks that they can identify and hazards that they can mitigate, so the airline's chance of having an accident is greatly reduced.  
 <br>[19:40:15]  
 
And this is something they've done on other airlines in the past when they've had accidents, incidents, or problems.  
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, and look, Bloomberg is reporting the FAA is considering drastic measures here, including preventing United from actually adding some new routes, which would be pretty significant.  
 
What would that say, for example, if that extra pretty drastic step was actually taken?  
 
SCHIAVO: Well, a lot of what it will say will depend upon how United and the team that they have put together, both United and the FAA put a team together to do this, how they respond to this.  
 
Now when other airlines in the past, many years ago, a couple of decades ago, US Air, the old US Air, which was of course bought out by another the carrier, got put on one of these special programs because it had five crashes in five years, and they were able to turn that around and give it one of the safest flight records in the industry at the time.  
 
So it will say, oh, and also there is another side benefit. All the things that they uncovered during this CHEP, if they cooperate and fully work together with the FAA, they won't get safety violation dings. In other words, they won't get fined or enforcement action against them.  
 
So yes, in the short run, it is probably not something that they like going on, but in the long run, it could give them significant benefits in safety and also, they will get amnesty from their violations.  
 
JIMENEZ: Now, I want to get your reaction to the latest update on the federal investigation into Boeing around that Alaska flight earlier this year, that door plug blew out midflight and there it is on your screen there, we will pull it up in a second here.  But on Friday, we learned the FBI, as you can see, the terrifying
 
 images, we learned that the FBI sent a letter to passengers saying they may have been "victims of a crime." How significant is that? I mean, does that mean we are potentially talking about like an act of sabotage causing this or what does that distinction actually mean?  
 
SCHIAVO: Well, that's a pretty significant event, but it is also an event in this particular event that lets us know that perhaps the Justice Department is learning from its past mistakes.  
 
Now when the Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed now five years ago, the Justice Department launched an investigation into Boeing, but did not advise or consult the families of the victims, the families of the almost 350 people who were killed until much later. But there is a federal law, the Crime Victims' Rights Act, which requires the Justice Department to do that.  
 
Now, then NTSB has complained that the records about this door plug repair are missing and that is very curious, it is very concerning because they have to keep records of that. So the FBI is the logical entity to go in and find out what is going on, why they are missing, if there was any sabotage or not, just because they're going in doesn't mean they will find anything.  
 
Remember, the FBI took the lead in the crash of TWA years ago, and it wasn't criminal at all. So once they do that, they will, if there is no crime found, they'll turn it over back over to the NTSB and they will proceed.  
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes. A lot to keep an eye on, very interesting nonetheless, thank you for breaking all of that down for us.  
 
Mary Schiavo, appreciate it.  
 
SCHIAVO: Thank you. Thank you.  
 
JIMENEZ: Everyone else, we will be right back.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[19:48:20]  
 
JIMENEZ: It may be spring, but spring you've got to fight back here because it looks a lot more like winter, at least in the Central US. Places like Minneapolis are seeing snowfall right now, and the snowstorm has some places under blizzard warnings.  
 
CNN meteorologist, Elisa Raffa joins us now. Elisa, you're also seeing tornado warnings spin up on the warm side of this storm, just sort of break down the range of what we are seeing here.  
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, we are talking about multiple hazards and I loved that shot that you showed of Minneapolis because Minneapolis really hasn't seen snow all winter. Here we are in March, they're finally getting a taste of it and you can see the snow bands over Minneapolis right now, but also look at all of those thunderstorms that are firing up.  
 
We have a severe thunderstorm watch from Kansas down there, Oklahoma. I've been watching these storms that I circled here closely. That's where we've had some super cells that have rotated at times and that's where were getting some tornado warnings.  
 
No active tornado warnings right now, but we do have a couple of severe thunderstorm warnings across Oklahoma City. There is the blizzard warning where we could see eight to 12 inches of snow in spots coupled with 60-mile-per-hour gusts, that's where we get whiteout conditions in the orange shading of the area there.  
 
Winter storm warnings go all the way up towards Minneapolis. We are looking at major impacts damaging winds, whiteout conditions, impossible travel, and power outages, not only from the heavy snow, but from the damaging winds.  
 
Here is a look at some of the snow forecast, again, looking at pretty much six to 12 inches for a lot of the Upper Midwest here and they've gotten just about that for the entire winter season, so they could really get everything all in one event that they got in an entire winter season.  
 
High wind warnings from Texas up to Oklahoma, gusts up 70 even 80 miles per hour. Couple that with some dry air and spots, you're looking at some fire-weather concerns as potent storms continue to spin up.  
 <br>[19:50:10]  
 
It will spin up another round of severe weather tomorrow and the snow conditions do continue -- Omar.  
 
JIMENEZ: All right. Wow, I said break down the range, that was quite the range there.  
 
RAFFA: A lot.  
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, exactly. Elisa Raffa, thank you so much.  
 
I want to turn now to the international gambling scandal that has one of the biggest names in Major League Baseball right at the center of it.  
 
The MLB is investigating after the Los Angeles Dodgers fired the interpreter of superstars Shohei Ohtani. Lawyers for Ohtani say his former interpreter stole millions from the baseball star to pay off gambling debts he had run up with a bookie in California where sports betting is still illegal.  
 
CNN's Camila Bernal joins us now from Los Angeles where the Dodgers are at home for the first time tonight.  
 
Sort of breakdown what is the controversy here? Why is this such a big deal?  CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It is a huge deal because
 
 of who he is. He is such a star, not just here in Los Angeles, but really worldwide and it has so many implications.  
 
Look, today was the day that so many Dodgers fans were looking forward to seeing Shohei Ohtani playing here at home in Los Angeles, but now what all the fans are looking forward to is tomorrow, because we are expecting Ohtani to address this controversy.  
 
We are talking theft, we are talking millions of dollars, gambling lies, and then now like you mentioned two investigations, the IRS and Major League Baseball.  
 
Now, I do want to say that the manager for the Dodgers spoke today and he said it was business as usual for Ohtani. He says that he is looking forward to speaking tomorrow. Take a listen.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
DAVE ROBERTS, DODGERS MANAGER: I think it is good. I think it is right thing to do and I am happy he is going to speak and speak to what he knows and give his thoughts on the whole situation. I think it will give this all a little bit more clarity.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
BERNAL: Okay, so let's recap.  
 
Ohtani's longtime interpreter was fired after his attorneys alleged theft, huge theft, millions of dollars and they say his interpreter or his former interpreter, Ippei Mizuhara, essentially placed bets through this bookmaker that is now being investigated by the federal government.  
 
And so the concern here or the questions that a lot of fans have is that the attorneys did not specify how those funds were stolen. Again, we are talking millions of dollars and the other problem that a lot of the fans have is the changing statements.  
 
So Ohtani's reps initially told ESPN that he was aware of this gambling problem and now they're saying that he had no idea, no clue what was going on. So again, a lot of contradicting statements and a lot of things that people want to clear up and Ohtani, hopefully will clear that up tomorrow -- Omar.  
 
JIMENEZ: Contradictory statements, millions of dollars at stake at the very least, fodder for investigating.  
 
Camila Bernal, thank you so much.  
 
Everyone else, we will be right back.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[19:57:44]  JIMENEZ: All right, everyone. Coming up next, CNN anchor and chief
 
 Washington correspondent, Jake Tapper, brings us an update on CJ Rice in a new edition of "The Whole Story" with Anderson Cooper -- Jake.  
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Omar, I've been reporting on CJ Rice's case for years, including in a cover story for "The Atlantic" Magazine in 2022, and my dad, who is one of CJ's fiercest advocates and was his pediatrician, testified in court back in 2013 saying that CJ Rice was not physically capable of committing the crime he was accused of because he had been shot in a case of mistaken identity, perhaps a few weeks before and could barely walk.  
 
Unfortunately, CJ had a horrible defense attorney and he ended up sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison for a crime that he did not commit.  
 
He finally got out though, and I finally got to meet him as a free man. On Monday, he was officially exonerated by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. He is legally innocent, and one of the most moving parts of tonight's documentary on "The Whole Story" with Anderson Cooper telling the story about the imprisonment and exoneration of CJ deals with the relationship between my 83-year-old father and CJ, and their correspondence, the letters they wrote each other since 2016. Take a listen.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
CJ RICE, EXONERATED BY COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA: April 8th, 2017: Dr. Tapper, hopefully as this letter reaches you, everything is good as can be given any and all circumstances.  
 
DR. TED TAPPER, CJ RICE'S FRIEND: May, 2019. Dear CJ --  
 
RICE: April to 12th, 2020 --   
 
TED TAPPER: December 2021 --   
 
RICE: February 13, 2022.  
 
JAKE TAPPER: These letters from my dad, did you look forward to getting them?  
 
RICE: I did.  
 
JAKE TAPPER: Yes.  
 
RICE: I did, like a lot.  
 
JAKE TAPPER: Really?  
 
RICE: Yes, because it is a constant. So you get used to constants in jail, but most of them are demeaning or not so personal, but a letter, the ink on it from somebody on other side of the wall, that's personal that makes you feel human.  
 
It was genuine, the care and concern that your father had for me was genuine.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
TAPPER: We will have much more of my conversation with CJ Rice tonight on "The Whole Story" with Anderson Cooper at 8:00 PM -- Omar.  
 
JIMENEZ: It is really going to be a powerful episode.  
 
The all-new episode of "The Whole Story" with Anderson Cooper is next only on CNN.  
 
Thank you for joining me this evening, whether you were here for three hours or five minutes, great to see you.  
 
I am Omar Jimenez. Goodnight.