Headline: The Lead with Jake Tapper
Sub-headline: Biden Claims No One Has Told Him He Can't Win; New York Lieutenant Governor Breaks With Governor, Calls On Biden To Drop Out; New British PM: I'll Work With Whoever Is Elected U.S. President; Alec Baldwin Trial Paused, Defense Claims Misconduct. Aired 4-5p ET

Aired July 12, 2024 - 16:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[16:00:03]
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN HOST: The galactic duo is nicknamed the Penguin and the Egg. The larger galaxy in the center is the Penguin and the brighter one is the Egg on the left
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: I can kind of see it of if you squint.
 
DEAN: I guess. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yeah. 
 
NASA says their dance with one galaxy pulling on the other began millions of years ago. NASA released the image to commemorate two full years of scientific discoveries from the telescope. Some pretty cool stuff coming from outer space. 
 
Thanks so much for joining us. Thanks so much for joining us this week, Jessica. 
 
DEAN: Yeah, my pleasure. 
 
SANCHEZ: Come back anytime.
 
THE LEAD WITH JAKE TAPPER starts right now.
 
(MUSIC)
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: Democratic money is freezing up on President Biden.
 
THE LEAD starts right now.
 
Ninety million dollars is reportedly being withheld from Democratic efforts to keep the White House as long as President Biden stays on the top of the ticket, this along with more House Democrats calling on President Biden to step down from the campaign. 
 
And a blunt message from their leader, Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, who met with Biden right after last night's news conference.
 
Plus, only on THE LEAD, our exclusive one-on-one with a brand new UK prime minister. What he said about his interactions with the president and his thoughts on Donald Trump and his relationship with King Charles III, after some not so kind words about the monarchy in his history. 
 
And a major shakeup in the Alec Baldwin trial. The actor's attorneys now accusing prosecutors of trying to hide evidence.
 
(MUSIC)
 
TAPPER: Welcome to THE LEAD. I'm Jake Tapper.
 
For the Biden campaign, these are quote, bad F-ing weeks, unquote. Those colorful words from Biden campaign chair Jen O'Malley Dillon talking to campaign staff yesterday, according to a source, who says that the Biden campaigns still believes the president can win in November. 
 
This despite back-to-back name fumbles last night, President Biden introducing Ukrainian President Zelenskyy and calling him president Putin. The president did catch himself and correct himself. But then he referred to Vice President Trump when referring to Vice President Kamala Harris.
 
The presser was generally notable for the president's knowledge of foreign policy and also continued stumbles, and perhaps most glaringly apparent denial about the state of his campaign. And while last night's Q&amp;A with the press was far from a debate like disaster that would finally put an end to his campaign, this claim, when asked about Vice President Harris, stuck out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REPORTER: If your team came back and showed you data that she would fare better against former President Donald Trump, would you reconsider your decision to stay in the race? 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: No. Unless they came back and said, there's no way you can win -- me. No one's saying that. No poll says that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAPPER: People are saying that. People are saying Biden cannot win, 19 Democratic lawmakers on Capitol Hill as of this minute, have publicly called on him to pass the torch. 
 
The very latest, Congressman Mike Levin of California, a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and he told Biden this directly on a call that the president had with the Hispanic Caucus today, according to a source, directly telling him he wants the president to step down from running for reelection. 
 
That is the first time that's happened by CNN's count. Also on that call, Congresswoman Gluesenkamp Perez, who suggested yesterday that Biden shouldn't even be president anymore because of questions about his fitness. She repeatedly kept asking to speak and ask a question on the Zoom call and the Biden campaign kept swatting her hand down on the Zoom, according to "Punchbowl News".
 
Many, many more Democrats in the House feel that way, and the Senate, too. But as of now, there's still saying it privately. And while we are well aware that polls are not always spot on predictions of what's going to happen, weeks from now, it is also clear their recent data from battleground states and nationwide shows President Biden losing to President Trump. 
 
But regardless, on top of this, a pew research survey this week shows an increasingly bleak outlook when it comes to just opinions of voters. Currently 71 percent of Biden supporters, Biden supporters, 71 percent of them said they would like to replace both nominees if they were given the option. That's up from 62 percent who said the same in April, only 24 percent of registered voters now described Biden as mentally sharp, down from 30 percent earlier this year. 
 
So I guess a question we have here on THE LEAD is when President Biden told the world last slide its night that no one is saying to him there's no way he can win. Is he that cocooned from the views of all these Democratic elected officials and big Democratic donors and grassroots Democrats and polling information and news? is he that ensconced off from all of this? 
 <br>[16:05:00]
 
Are Biden's advisers really not sharing with him what panicking Democrats from coast to coast are shouting? 
 
A source tells CNN former Speaker Nancy Pelosi and former President Barack Obama are growing increasingly skeptical that President Biden will be able to beat Donald Trump while the current House Democratic leader, Congressman Hakeem Jeffries of New York, notably did not endorse Biden's reelection efforts after their private White House meeting last night.
 
Jeffries recounted the meeting with this, quote: I directly expressed the full breadth of insight, heartfelt perspectives, and conclusions about the path forward that the Democratic caucus has shared in our recent time together, unquote. It's pretty notable statement because it does not say the Democrats want Biden to be at the top of the ticket.
 
Ahead this hour, we're going to bring you our exclusive with the new leader of the United Kingdom, Keir Starmer. He gave his assessment of President Biden after meeting with him one-on-one this week here in Washington. He also discussed how he might handle a Trump presidency. 
 
But first, let's check in with CNN's Arlette Saenz on the path forward for President Biden, as he lands in the all-important battleground state of Michigan.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): President Joe Biden on the move to Michigan today, looking to get his candidacy back on track. BIDEN: I'm just going to keep moving. 
 
SAENZ: The president working behind the scenes to shore up support, scheduling at least four meetings with key groups on Capitol Hill, including Asian American and Hispanic lawmakers. 
 
The outreach coming after a private meeting between Biden and House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries who said he directly express the full breadth of insight, heartfelt perspectives and conclusions about the path forward. 
 
A source familiar with the meeting telling CNN, Jeffries spoke bluntly about House Democrats views and did not offer an explicit endorsement of his own.
 
Biden hoping his Thursday press conference would put the Democratic doubt to rest. But some still vocal with their concerns. 
 
REP. BRAD SCHNEIDER (D-IL): We can't have a situation where every day were holding our breath.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think persisting in this direction is Israeli a huge mistake.
 
SAENZ: Biden's top allies argue it's time for Democrats to accept the president's decision.
 
INTERVIEWER: Should the conversation about the president getting out of this race, should that conversation continue? 
 
REP. JIM CLYBURN (D-SC): No, it shouldn't. If he decides to change his mind later on, then we would respond to that. We haven't to the 19 of August.
 
SAENZ: As he heads to Michigan, Biden is eager to turn the focus back to Donald Trump. 
 
BIDEN: D you think her democracies under siege based on this court? Do you think democracy and he sees based on Project 2025?
 
SAENZ: Well, one House Democrat from the state has called for Biden to step aside. The president will be flanked by elected officials in a show of force. In a state, the campaign argues is key to Biden's victory in November.
 
The president's speech taking place at the same site where he made this pledge in the 2020 race. 
 
BIDEN: Look, I view myself as a bridge, not as anything else. There's an entire generation of leaders you saw stand behind me. They are the future of this country.
 
SAENZ: But for years later, Biden charging ahead as the Democratic nominee.
 
BIDEN: What changed was the gravity of this situation I inherited, in terms of the economy, our foreign policy, and domestic division. I've got to finish this job because there's so much at stake.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SAENZ (on camera): Now moments ago, President Biden arrived here in Michigan. He is expected to spend a little over three hours in the state making his case to voters.
 
And tonight, Jake, we are learning some new details from inside that private call President Biden had with members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Our colleague, Annie Grayer, reporting that one of the lawmakers on that call, Congressman Mike Levin, directly told President Biden he needed to step aside in this race. It's believed that -- or at least as far as we know, that is the first time a sitting lawmaker has said that directly to President Biden.
 
Now, a source who was briefed on the call said the president responded by saying that he knows that he needs to get out there in front of people, does show that he is moving well and healthy and a short while ago, campaigns communications director Michael Tyler told reporters that he -- they are aware of the anxiety within the Democratic Party, that is why President Biden will be engaging with lawmakers, with voters, trying to make his case that he is up for a second term. 
 
TAPPER: Arlette Saenz in Michigan, thanks so much.
 
Let's bring in our political panel to discuss. We should note, all three agreed that they do not want former president to win in November, but they do not agree necessarily on how to achieve that. 
 
Paul Begala, let me start with you we just replayed President Biden saying that no one is saying that he can't win in November, which is factually inaccurate to the point of being staggering. 
 <br>[16:10:10]
 
David Axelrod posted: If what he said at the end of the presser is true, it sounds like Biden's team has not been very candid with him about what the data is showing. The age issue is a huge and potentially insurmountable concern and his odds of victory are very, very slim. 
 
What was your reaction when you heard President Biden saying no one is telling him that he can't win?
 
PAUL BEGALA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yeah, he has the tightest inner circle that I've ever seen. Now that's good in many ways. They don't leak a lot. They've gotten an enormous amount done but we don't know. We don't know what to tell him. 
 
That's why the press conference I thought was very encouraging. He took a lot of tough questions. He did. I thought substantively did a terrific job stylistically, not as strong.
 
But the problem is, all of these things, the rally today, the rally he had in North Carolina, rally there in Wisconsin, those are tactical cures to an existential problem. It's not even a strategic problem. It's existential. 
 
Voters think he's too old. Yeah, they thought Bill Clinton's too liberal to start his presidency. He pivoted to the center. 
 
Joe can't -- President Biden can't pivot to being 45 again.
 
TAPPER: Yeah. 
 
Bill Kristol, last night, Biden said he was the best qualified candidate to beat Trump, but he conceded that there are other -- there are other people who could beat Trump, too. What was your reaction to watching the press conference? 
 
BILL KRISTOL, DIRECTOR, DEFENDING DEMOCRACY TOGETHER: You know, I thought president Biden cracked the door open in a way he hadn't before to stepping aside. He said that other people could beat Trump, I think he recently said, oh, no, I'm the one who has to do it, right? He said that -- he said if the polls came back showing that he had no chance to win, they were going to show no chance to win, but still they might show that he had a tough for him to win, suddenly he's talking about the polls.
 
A week ago with George Stephanopoulos, he said, I'm only stepping down if the Lord Almighty comes down and tells me.
 
TAPPER: Right.
 
KRISTOL: Suddenly, we're going from the Lord Almighty actual polling data. So I think he's begun to open the door a little bit and, of course, others are pushing that door as far as -- as far as they can, Nancy Pelosi and others. So I think actually the odds of him, who knows, who knows?
 
TAPPER: The Democratic Party in particular uses a lot of celebrity endorsers to push their candidate, Ashley Judd, the latest. And she's a -- she's a Democratic activist as well as being a celebrity and actress and there was even talk some years ago about her running for office in Kentucky.
 
She wrote in an op-ed: Some in Washington may want to wait for the next week, the next press conference, the next network interview. Here where I sit in rural Tennessee, I''m sorry, Tennessee, I thought it was Kentucky, here where I sit in rural Tennessee, it is clear that Americans have already made up their minds against President Biden. 
 
We must give them a different choice from a Democratic Party for president of the United States.
 
What do you make of the argument that we don't need more evidence, we don't need another interview, we don't need another data point like the American people are -- and it's true -- the American people polling-wise have been here long before the pundits were?
 
NAYYERA HAQ, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF CABINET AFFAIRS, OBAMA ADMINISTRATION: This is, I think some of the challenge that we're seeing is the airing of the grievances that never really happened properly within the party, right? 
 
There was a knock on -- barely one person stepped up to a primary challenge Joe Biden, and then suddenly, you have the Gaza conflict that exposes all of these fissures within the party on policy direction and identity, generational gaps. And the answer has been don't mess things up for Biden versus Trump.
 
TAPPER: Right.
 
HAQ: Now, suddenly, we have billionaire donors who are willing to have these conversations or celebrities and suddenly now, it's a real conversation. Everyone's willing to consider. 
 
I think it's fascinating that, that is what the tipping point has been when you have now, that's coalition of the Fettermans of the world and the Squad and Bernie Sanders were saying, what's better for the party is for Biden to stay in and fight on his record. 
 
And it's -- it is fascinating to see that these people who were opposed to Biden in policy and principle are now the ones asking him to stay in the race. 
 
TAPPER: Yeah, that's interesting. Where do you think -- I mean, this story from "The New York Times" at $90 million is being withheld from Democratic efforts to hold the White House unless Biden is no longer on top of the ticket, what was it? That's stunning. And for people who don't understand, like money is the lifeblood of American politics. All these rallies and TV ads and everything, you can't do without donation.
 
BEGALA: Right, Jesse Unruh, the late treasurer of the state of California, said money is the mother's milk of politics. And it is. And I can tell you, I raise a lot of money for a lot of super PACs, progressive aligned, that $90 million is an undercount, believe me.
 
Donors are angry. They're angry.
 
TAPPER: They feel lied to. 
 
BEGALA: Well, they do -- they do, and their sadness has curdled into anger. And they're showing that anger by locking up their checkbooks.
 
What I want to know is how's the online fundraising going for Biden for president? How is it? Are grassroots Democrats going to make that up? I don't -- I don't see it.
 
TAPPER: Yeah. 
 
All right. Thanks one and all for being here.
 
Coming up next, the high ranking Democrat breaking with his state leader to call on Biden to drop out of the race. So what's the alternative? Who's he going to support? I'll ask.
 
Plus, my exclusive with the new British prime minister who is just one week on the job as of today. What he told me about President Biden and President Trump, ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:18:42]
 
TAPPER: And we're back with our 2024 lead. It's not just lawmakers on Capitol Hill calling on President Biden to drop out of the presidential race. Prominent Democratic state officials across the country are as well.
 
Joining us now, one of them, New York Lieutenant Governor Antonio Delgado.
 
Lieutenant Governor, you made a notable break from your boss Governor Kathy Hochul who is steadfast supporter of President Biden, what drove you to take this step? 
 
LT. GOV. ANTONIO DELGADO (D-NY): A number of things and thanks for having me.
 
I think, first and foremost, it's -- it's important to understand that it has to listen to my conscience. As an American, as a father, as somebody who cares deeply about this country and where we're going, the stakes being what they are. It was important for me to say what I believed, and to be honest with myself and be honest to the American people and with New Yorkers who like me were concerned.
 
Make no mistake about it: Donald Trump is a bad man. He is someone who does not care about our country. He does not love our country or love American people, or Americans. He's somebody that will do whatever he wants to get what he wants -- lie, still, cheat, incite violence, at all costs. 
 
In contrast, President Joe Biden is a good man, a man with great integrity and character, a man who deeply loves this country and has committed his entire life to serving this country. And he is beloved. I love this man and who he is. 
 <br>[16:20:01]
 
And so like millions of folks, it is a very painful thing to sit here and try to process where we are. But at the same time, many of us do have legitimate concerns about whether or not he can successfully prosecute a campaign against an incredibly dangerous human being in Donald Trump. And ultimately, that's what it boils down to. What are we doing to make sure we put ourselves in the best position to keep Donald Trump out of the White House? He has no business ever being anywhere near there again.
 
TAPPER: Are you worried at all about burning bridges within your party? Because obviously, what you're saying is not what we're hearing from Governor Hochul or Senator Schumer or any other statewide officials?
 
DELGADO: What I'm worried about is our democracy. What I'm worried about is our children, my children. What I'm worried about is my conscience, what I'm worried about his people's collective belief and sustainability of our democracy, and the trustworthiness of our Democratic institutions. All I can do is be who I am and say what I mean and mean what I say. 
 
And ultimately, this is not about whether or not we are not in a position to continue. We have to be in a position to mobilize, to energize, and to organize. And we have a great opportunity ahead of us. I know their alliance which is going on right now with President Biden, both publicly and privately, and I believe he's listening. I do. I believe he's listening like he always has. 
 
I believe the genuine public servant. And I think its important for us to allow him to listen and I believe that he's going to get to a place where he understands the stakes and imagine, imagine that moment where we can turn the page and focus on new leaders, new blood, and new generation, mobilize and tapping is something that I think for a very, very long time, Americans have desperately wanted. And that is a path forward with the next general duration of leaders. 
 
TAPPER: Let me ask you, as the lieutenant governor of New York, "Politico" reports that elected officials and union leaders in your state, in the Empire State, are panicking over poll showing an erosion in Biden support in New York. Democratic Manhattan borough president Mark Levine told "Politico", quote, I truly believe were in a battlegrounds we are a battleground state now.
 
Is that true?
 
DELGADO: Well, what we know is that it's a competitive landscape and is competitive to the point where we are in dangerous territory. And ultimately, we have an opportunity here to do everything we can to put our best foot forward, to do all that we can think about what can happen if we pump new blood into this effort? And we have time, we have time to get this right. 
 
And I want to be clear about something this is not an easy decision. This is a heavy moment and it was heavy on my heart and I -- I cannot underscore how much love I have for President Biden. He is a good, good man. And he has somebody that has done so much for this country and still is. 
 
But ultimately, we need an individual on the front lines here in this competition, where you are running a campaign and must go every single corner of this country and engage and talk to people and listen to people and lead with love and lead with compassion and lead with the force that will overtake the dark forces, the dark energy that is embodied in President Donald Trump.
 
TAPPER: New York Lieutenant Governor Antonio Delgado, thank you so much. Appreciate your time, sir. 
 
DELGADO: Thank you for having me. 
 
Up next, my exclusive interview with the new UK prime minister, his observations of Biden after multiple meetings, plus his thoughts on Donald Trump. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:26:59]
 
TAPPER: Our world now, our exclusive interview with the United Kingdom's new Prime Minister Keir Starmer. Starmer has only been in office for one week and already he finds himself here in the United States for the NATO summit, during an unprecedented time in American politics.
 
We sat down at the British embassy at the close of the summit last night. 
 
Here's part one of our interview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TAPPER: So I know you told the BBC that President Biden was in really good form during your meeting. Obviously, we're hearing lots of different accounts from people who have had meetings with the president and 51 million Americans watching that debate two weeks ago, saw something different than really good form. 
 
If you were a witness a concerning development, would you say something? 
 
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: Yes, of course. But I mean, I -- yesterday, I spent 45 minutes with the president, which spoken on the phone, as you can imagine. But this was an opportunity to discuss a number of issues. We were billed for 45 minutes. We probably went on for the best part of an hour, covered a lot of ground, and he was in good form.
 
And it was also really good opportunity for me as a new prime minister of the United Kingdom just a literally in week one to speak to the president about special relationship which matters to him, matters to me and, of course, to make absolutely clear, our unshakable support for NATO, to be here at the NATO Summit.
 
So it was a good session, covered a lot of ground, strategic stuff as well. And obviously we've had two days of the council now with actually a very successful outcome, President Zelenskyy saying this is a success. And so, I do think he deserves credit for that.
 
TAPPER: Whoever gets elected in the United States in November will either be almost 80 or just over, Donald Trump and Joe Biden. 
 
Sir Winston Churchill resigned as prime minister at the age of 80 when he realized he was slowing down. And you want to reduce this size of the House of Lords by forcing peers to retire at the age of 80. So, 80 might be too old?
 
STARMER: Well, the House of Lords, you're absolutely right. We want to have this limit that if you're 80 at during the course of the parliament, then you have to retire. That's actually more to do with this, how the size of the House of Lords, our second chamber is the second biggest chamber in the world. We've got over 800 members, We got to get the size down. 
 
So this age limit is actually more of mechanism for getting the age down. Obviously, in America, it's for the American people decide who they want to be their president.
 
Speaking of which, polls indicate former President Donald Trump as of right now, looks like he will be reelected. Who knows, what will happen in the next four months? But your Foreign Secretary David Lammy in 2018 called President Trump, quote, a woman-hating, neo-Nazi sympathizing sociopath, and a, quote, profound threat to the international order.
 <br>[16:30:06]
 
You yourself said with less flowery like -- flowery language, a Trump win is not your desired outcome but you'll make it work. 
 
Should we consider that an endorsement of President Biden? 
 
STARMER: I'm a progressive and we're sister parties with the Democrats, but I've been really clear I will work with whoever the American people decide to elect as their president. That's what you would expect and it is for the American people to decide. They'll decide later this year and we will so approach it on that basis. 
 
Not least, because the special relationship was forged in the most difficult circumstances, has endured for years. I think given the global challenges that face, it's more important than ever. And therefore, of course, will work with whoever is elected in and it's for the American people to choose who they think is the right person to be president. And I will fully respect that work with whomever they choose. 
 
TAPPER: President Trump has threatened to leave NATO he sounds open to cutting a deal with Russian President Vladimir Putin that would essentially it seems give Putin some of the territory of Ukraine. How concerned are you about those as policy moves?
 
STARMER: Well, I think it's important to wait and see, what happens, who's elected as president, then will actually happen after that. 
 
In relation to the support for Ukraine -- I mean, that was a really strong resolve from the NATO countries today. And I think everybody will see that resolve and why it's so important that matters to us. But let's wait and see, its always tempting to get ahead of ourselves and to do all the what if questions were waiting to see who is elected in wait and see what decisions are event taken after that. 
 
But my position as prime minister of the United Kingdom could not be clearer, which is an unshakable support for NATO so we were proudly one of the countries that was there at the founding of NATO. If you look at the treaty which is in Brussels, the NATO founding treaty, it's a -- it's a labor secretary of state that signed it. 
 
So we're proud of that history. It's an unshakable support. And NATO now bigger than it's ever been with extra countries stronger today, I think than it's been. And with a real resolve that came through the council over the last two days, on a number of issues, but particularly on this question of Ukraine and standing up to Russian aggression. 
 
So, I think there's a real clarity of purpose in NATO, and certainly a real clarity of purpose from me.
 
TAPPER: NATO countries pledged to spend at least 2 percent of their GDP on defense. Your party has made a pledge does eventually spend 2.5 percent of GDP on defense. That's up from 2.3 percent right now the United States is worried that you'd have trouble finding enough battle-ready troops. If called upon by NATO right now, you're starting a big defense review I know. 
 
STARMER: Yeah. 
 
TAPPER: But you haven't said when you think you'll be able to get to 2.5 percent. Why not commit to a timeline? And what do you think about concerns that British troops, there aren't enough battle-ready ones?
 
STARMER: Well, let me take that in stages because we in Europe make a unique contribution to NATO in terms of not just the deterrence, of course, but also the deployment of our capabilities. We pretty well put all of our capability of the disposal of Ukraine working with our NATO allies. So it's a huge contribution. 
 
We already meet and exceed the 2 percent. That's a floor of course. So going above it is a good thing. Were urging allies to get to that 2 percent and go beyond that. 
 
We will carry out a strategic review referencing your point about the number of troops. Because it'll be a strategic review looking at the capabilities we have, looking at the risks that were facing and assessing strategically what we need to do and defense. The reason were doing that now is because there's as you will appreciate, quite a lot of information not available to the opposition, only available to the government of the day. That's quite right. I don't grumble about that. 
 
So we're currently strategic review. We're absolutely committed to the 2.5 percent within our fiscal rules, and we'll set a roadmap for getting there. But I'm not going to do is set arbitrary targets because I think that's unserious. And we're very serious about that. 2.5 percent.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
TAPPER: In the prime minister's younger years, he was not publicly such a fan of the monarchy. So how does that shape his relationship with King Charles with whom he will now meet weekly? Part two of our exclusive interview with the new UK prime minister is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:38:56] TAPPER: And we're back with more of our exclusive interview with British Prime Minister Keir Starmer. He reformed the Labour Party. He brought it back to the center, he says, and as we walk through the halls of the British embassy here in D.C., I was reminded of a similar reform effort under one of his predecessors, Prime Minister Tony Blair.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TAPPER: I saw that he wrote a column or he was quoted saying something along the lines signs of that you should take seriously the concerns are lots of rank-and-file, just members of the public have about it, like immigration and the border. And I don't know if --  
 
STARMER: He's right about that.
 
TAPPER: Yeah. 
 
STARMER: It is a big issue. But, you know, what he did in '97 when he got to laugh how slide victory was he took the Labour party to the center-ground and planted it --  
 
TAPPER: Yeah.
 
STARMER: -- where the British public are.
 
Then, you know, we obviously lost in 2019, we've actually lost four elections in a row.
 
TAPPER: Right.
 
STARMER: We've got not too far from that sort of core purpose. And that's why in four-and-a-half years, we dragged it back to that center ground where people are.
 <br>[16:40:05]
 
And the British are pretty tolerant, reasonable people. Live and let live. They don't like politics dominating their lives. One of the phrases I used in the election was that we needed to politics, which trump more likely on people's lives. And that's very important in Britain.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAPPER: When we sat down, I asked the prime minister how the Labour Party plans to fix this laundry list of problems plaguing the UK, including a cost of living crisis and a broken health care service. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAPPER: Labour hasn't been behind the reins of power in your country for quite some power.
 
STARMER: We're out of power for 14 years.
 
TAPPER: Fourteen years. 
 
Some pundits suggest that it's -- it's more that the conservatives lost the confidence of the public than the Labour Party won it. Maybe you disagree with that.
 
But I do wonder, in terms of the massive economic and infrastructure problems, not -- you know, not just physical infrastructure, but government infrastructure where are you going to get the money to fix everything that's wrong in the UK and improve people's lives? 
 
STARMER: Well, let me address both of those questions because I took over the Labour Party forward half years ago, we just had the worst general election results since 1935 and the pessimist are saying the Labour Party will never win an election again, the optimists said, well, you might, but it'll take you ten years. I said no were going to do it in one parliamentary term, but we got to be ruthless. We've got to be steely. Were going to change the labor party, got to turn it inside out, and make sure that it's a part of that always says country first and party second. 
 
Now, true it is that the government of the last 14 years has been falling apart. But we've seen plenty of examples in history where a conservative government has been failing, and yet, a Labour government hasn't been elected. And it was only by changing the Labour Party, that we were able to persuade the electorate to elect us into govern. And with a very powerful and strong mandate, we won in parts of the country we've never won in before, places that had a conservative MP for 100 years. 
 
Now, in relation to the second part of your question on the economy, it has been broken. We haven't had economic growth for 14 years. We've had a low growth, high tax doom loop, if you like. We're going to break that, but we're going to break that with economic growth. 
 
And that's why already our chancellors been out days after the election, taking tough decisions on planning, on infrastructure, setting up the sort of bodies, the national wealth fund that we will need, the investment partnerships that we will pursue to get that economic growth because we do want our public services to run properly, our NHS, our health service is on its knees. We intend to fix that, but our number one mission, if you like, the driving purpose of this government is going to be economic growth measured in living standards raised and people feeling better off. 
 
And I'm really glad we've hit the ground running on that. 
 
TAPPER: When the UK voted to leave the European Union in 2016, move, you campaigned against it at the time, we should note.
 
STARMER: Yes.
 
TAPPER: Many of the UK's allies thought it was as if the Brits were stepping off the world stage. Now you have ruled out a vote to un- Brexit, to rejoin. How can you rebuild British influence without measures along those lines? STARMER: Well, we're not going to rejoin the EU. That's an
 
 institutional question. But we do want to be closer to the EU. We want a better relationship with the EU.
 
Thinks of what, but there's a wider point in what you asked me, which is important, because there was a sense once we had Brexit and left the EU that the UK was somehow less interested in international leadership and affairs and more interested inward looking just at the United Kingdom. I regret that. I think that was a backward move. 
 
And so, we do want to reset. And that reset is not about which institutions we join or belonged to in the sense of the EU. It's about posture, pose, the behavior, a UK that is confident is open on the international stage, that wants to play its full part in NATO, and defense and security, and meeting the climate change challenge. And so, it is really as much about the type of leadership that I will give as the prime minister that we will see from my government, making it clear that we're back and we're pleased to be back, that we really think we bring value to the table when it comes to global challenges.
 
So an open confident posture if you like and that's what I mean by resetting the relationship. Yes, with our EU partners, but wider European partners and with very many of the leaders that we will be meeting here in Washington during the summit.
 <br>[16:45:15]
 
TAPPER: Years ago, you walked back, you're youthful comments on abolishing the monarchy. And you're now going to have a weekly audience with King Charles, the third, all this talk about age here in the United States. He has 75 years in the monarchy to your nine years in politics.
 
Are you leaning on him for counsel? Are you going to be using his counsel even though he's part of the monarchy? 
 
STARMER: But I'll be meeting him every week. That's the tradition. I've obviously met him and had many conversations with him already, and it is always valuable to listen to what he has to say. He's incredibly interested in politics, in the affairs across the United Kingdom and global affairs. 
 
And he's incredible as well. You know, he's had, you know, a really difficult time with his health this year and yet he is out there doing his public duty. And I look forward to those audiences. There are really good frank exchange of views and long way they continue.
 
TAPPER: Last question for you, what should the American people watching expect from you as prime minister? What should we think of when we think of your prime ministership and your administration? 
 
STARMER: For the American people, I would say we are reliable, respectful, trustworthy, partner to America. This special relationship is special for a reason. It was forged in really difficult circumstances with incredible results. That's why it goes so deep. This isn't, you know, a treaty that was
 
 signed or a particular trade deal. It's something in the very soul of our two nations. That's why it's endured, and that's why it was really important for me in this first week of a Labour government to be here in America and say, just how important the special relationship is to me. 
 
We're very special partners. We will always be special partners. I think that's very good for the UK and I think it's very good for America.
 
TAPPER: Mr. Prime Minister, thanks so much for your time and congratulations. 
 
STARMER: Thank you very much. 
 
TAPPER: It's only been a week.
 
STARMER: It has.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
TAPPER: Our thanks to UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer and all of our friends across the pond for granting us that interview. His very first given to foreign press since taking office. 
 
New problems for Rudy Giuliani after decision just in from a judge in his bankruptcy case.
 
Plus, a major twist today in Alec Baldwin's manslaughter trial. His attorneys want the case thrown out entirely. They accused the prosecution of hiding evidence. What that claim might mean for that case. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:51:59]
 
TAPPER: In our law and justice lead, a federal bankruptcy judge in New York today ruled that Rudy Giuliani is no longer entitled to a bankruptcy protection. The ruling immediately allows creditors to go after Giuliani's assets. That includes Georgia election workers, Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss, who won a $148 million defamation verdict against Giuliani last year. Their lawyer says, Freeman and Moss plan to seek liens on Giuliani's two apartments in New York and Florida within the next few days.
 
Giuliani's attorneys say he plans to appeal the defamation verdict and that he may fight Freeman and Moss in state court on any liens they pursue.
 
And our pop culture lead, a big surprise today in the Alec Baldwin involuntary manslaughter trial. The jury was sent home for the weekend, and instead, we saw the judge wearing blue surgical type glove looking over bullets as she considered a request from the defense to throw out the case entirely because of what Baldwin's attorneys claim is misconduct by investigators. 
 
CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister is following the trial for us. 
 
Elizabeth, could this entire case be thrown out? 
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT: That is certainly what the defense is hoping for and what is going on in the courtroom right now. It is possible, Jake, that this case can be thrown out. 
 
So let me take you through what happened this morning. The defense filed a motion to dismiss this case. This was one of many, their latest attempt to get this case to be thrown out, and they are alleging that evidence relating to the bullets, the live ammunition that got on the set of "Rust" was withheld from them. 
 
Let's take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LUKE NIKAS, BALDWIN DEFENSE ATTORNEY: We're talking about a prosecution that didn't preserve those bullets. That didn't collect them at all, that didn't turn them over. This is critical evidence in the case. I was never disclosed to us.
 
KARI MORRISSEY, PROSECUTOR: Your honor, there has been absolutely no violations of our obligations as prosecutors. Everything that has occurred in this regard, every the thing that these defense attorneys knew well before today. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WAGMEISTER: Now, one of the big questions here is, how did live ammunition get on the set and why was it there? 
 
Now, the prosecution, they say that this evidence held no one value, but this was compelling enough, Jake, to the judge that she sent the jury home until Monday, and now, the attorneys and the judge without the jury, they're hearing from witnesses as the judge determines what to do next.
 
TAPPER: And we should note, this is far from the only running the prosecutors have had with the defense.
 
WAGMEISTER: Absolutely. This is far from it. 
 
You remember, Jake, that even in the lead-up to this trial, it's been a bit chaotic and messy, right? The charges against Alec Baldwin were dropped, then they were re-filed. As I said, there have been many attempts to dismiss this case altogether, but even this morning before this motion to dismiss was discussed, they -- Baldwin's defense, they were sparring again, bringing up what they say were some unfair tactics by the prosecution. 
 <br>[16:55:10]
 
Let's take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEX SPIRO, BALDWIN'S DEFENSE ATTORNEY: The campers are catching Ms. Morrissey signaling witnesses, while they're on the witness stand. This is a high pressure case. There have been issues in this case that I've ever seen in all of those cases combined. And so I'm sort of at a loss, but to bring to the court's attention.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WAGMEISTER: So again, this is just the latest back and-forth. But Baldwin's defense there accusing the prosecution of signaling witnesses on the stand. Now, Jake, I have a source close to Baldwin who tells me that they believe that the prosecution has been unfair all along, and it's clear that this is taking and the toll on Baldwin because just today, we see right there, his wife, Hilaria Baldwin, was embracing him today, so things very tense, very emotional in that courtroom.
 
TAPPER: Certainly seemed like there are a lot of legitimate questions about the prosecution and how they're conducting themselves. 
 
Elizabeth Wagmeister, thanks so much. 
 
Moments ago, we saw President Biden arrive in Michigan. He's just minutes away from a campaign event in Detroit, coming up next, some of the notable names not with him, not showing up in Michigan, despite such a high profile, high high-stakes time for President Biden.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)