Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Christmas Day Around The World; Jews Celebrate First Night Of Hannukah; Passenger Plane With 67 On Board Crashes In Kazakhstan. Aired 2-2:30p ET

Aired December 25, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:39]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: I'm Bianna Golodryga. This is CNN Newsroom. It is Christmas Day in much of the world celebrating the birth of Jesus. It's also a day for giving and spending time with loved ones. From Bethlehem to Ukraine to Ivory Coast, Christians are marking the day with festivities. 
 
And for Jewish people around the globe, Hanukkah begins at sundown, the first of eight nights celebrating the Festival of Lights, noting it's actually rare for the first night of Hanukkah to fall on Christmas, only happening about every 15 years. 
 
We'll have more on Holidays later this hour. But now turning to the day's news. 
 
We are tracking the aftermath of a fiery plane crash in Kazakhstan. Miraculously, authorities say 29 people, including two children, survived the disaster, but at least 38 others were killed. The flight was traveling from the capital of Baku to southern Russia when it crashed near the city of Aktau. 
 
One witness said bloodied survivors emerged from the wreckage of the plane, which burst into flames as it hit the ground. An aviation watchdog says a bird strike may be to blame for the emergency, but the cause of the crash is still unknown. 
 
Former FAA safety inspector and CNN safety analyst David Soucie joins us now from Denver, Colorado. David, Happy Holidays to you. Thank you so much for taking the time to join us. Obviously, a tragedy here in this crash, much is still unknown as the investigation has begun. But what do you make of what we do know? And do you think that a flock of birds could have been the factor here for the plane crash? 
 
DAVID SOUCIE, CNN SAFETY ANALYST: Well, I think it's way too early to make that determination as to what caused it or not, but the crash site and the movement of the aircraft does not indicate to me that it was a bird strike set or bird strikes, or flock of birds that caused the problem. The aircraft not only went up and down like with power issues, but it was going left and right. It was pretty much out of control for a good amount of time before the accident. 
 
So I'm not there with the bird strike yet. But it certainly is a tragedy and it's a tragic accident to have had to Experience that for these folks to come through that for 20 minutes to wait to see what's going to happen and then to have survivors is truly a miracle on Christmas Day. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, I was going to ask you about that. That's, I would imagine extremely rare for a plane crash to have survivors, much less some 29 people. And looking at video from the site of the crash, some people actually just walking out of the plane, it appeared that the fortunate ones were sitting in the back. What do you make of that? 
 
SOUCIE: Well, this particular flight path and the nose-down attitude of the aircraft, when it hit the ground, it quickly broke in half. And so what happens is the energy, this is much like you said, it's very rare. But in the Sioux City accident, which is many years ago, the aircraft did something similar which is where the tail breaks off of the aircraft. So all the energy from that impact is transferred and absorbed by the front part of the aircraft wings forward. 
 
The tail of the aircraft you can see in some of these videos is a long distance from where the initial impact site is. And that energy is all dissipated by the time it comes to rest. There are survivors, in this case, 22 survivors that were able to walk away from that tail section. 
 
GOLODRYGA: This is Azerbaijan Airlines. The last major episode that they experienced was in 2005 when AN140 plane crashed shortly before takeoff killing 18 passengers. It's known to have a pretty strong safety record flying in and out of the EU and meeting their standards there. It's an Embraer 190 plane. What are investigators going to be looking at as they try to put the pieces together with the black box in particular? 
 
SOUCIE: Well, as you said, Azerbaijan is one of the top safety airlines in the world, really. They've done a great job of keeping their safety record up. The next steps on this is because it's a modern aircraft, there will be flight recorders, there will be data recorders, everything that needs to be recorded from that flight will be on there. And we'll be able to get some information out of there as soon as the investigation is concluded. But that would be the start. 
 
Of course, the first thing on any accident site you do is to -- is the safety of those survivors and the passengers there. And secondarily you can see that there's the videos, a lot of people coming up to help and assist and there are a lot of hazards and dangers there. And you notice a lot of them are not wearing masks or don't have protective gear on. And so the safety of those folks is really important as well. So the managing the site is what they're focused on right now is to make sure that everyone's safe that is there and clearing that area out. 
 <br>[14:05:16]
 
The next steps of this is going to be continuing to make it secure and safe. And then due respect to those folks who have passed in the accident, those have to be taken care of as well respectfully. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. Later today, after the crash, the Azerbaijan prosecutor general's office said in a statement that it opened a criminal investigation. In terms of investigating how this happened, in addition to the black box, do you expect investigators to be perhaps speaking with surviving passengers, given how rare that was, just to get more insight into what happened, perhaps the moment before the plane actually crashed? 
 
SOUCIE: Yes. The difficult thing about interviewing survivors is that the stories are going to be very different and they can actually dissuade you from a certain investigation. So it's important the investigators look to the facts and keep it that way. With regard to the criminal investigation, Azerbaijan and the folks in that region do see every aircraft accident as a criminal investigation. That's how they start it. 
 
In the FAA, we don't do that. We don't bring in the FBI or anybody else until we see other issues that have to do with other than the aircraft operations or the mechanics of it. So over there, it's not uncommon for them to open it as a criminal investigation. 
 
GOLODRYGA: That is an important detail to note. David Soucie, thank you again for joining us. Really appreciate the time. 
 
SOUCIE: Of course. Thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says Russia launched an inhumane attack on Christmas Day targeting energy infrastructure across Ukraine with missiles and drones. At least one person died in the attack. Six others were injured. Half a million households in the Kharkiv region were left without heat or power during the frigid winter chill. CNN's Nada Bashir brings us more details from London. 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is being described by Ukrainian authorities as a massive-scale attack once again targeting Ukraine's energy sector. According to officials, the attack took place overnight into Wednesday which with explosions reported across the country, including in the northeastern city of Kharkiv where at least seven missile strikes were reported and six people injured. Ukrainian authorities say Russia launched more than 70 missiles, including ballistic missiles and more than 100 attack drones, of which 50 missiles and a significant number of drones are said to have been intercepted. 
 
However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has confirmed that there were hits with at least one person killed. Zelensky said President Putin chose to carry out the attack on Christmas Day, describing Russia's actions as inhumane. Ukraine's energy operator, meanwhile, says it was forced to impose emergency blackouts in several parts of the country. 
 
This, of course, comes after a series of attacks by Russia in recent days, including an attack on the capital, Key Kyiv, which was targeted on Friday. Ukraine's largest private energy company said this marks the 13th time this year that Russia has carried out a major attack on Ukraine's energy sector, leaving the country in a precarious position as the war grinds into a third winter. Nada Bashir, CNN, London. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Next for us on CNN Newsroom, what is King Charles thankful for on Christmas Day? His message to England and the rest of the world when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [14:10:51]
 
GOLODRYGA: Welcome back. We'll have more on holiday celebrations throughout the world in a moment. But first, here are the headlines we're following this hour. 
 
Afghanistan's Defense Ministry is vowing revenge for what it calls a cowardly attack of aggression by Pakistan's military. Taliban officials say aircraft bomb four sites in eastern Afghanistan, killing at least 46 people, mostly women and children. A Pakistani security official says the attacks targeted militants belonging to the Pakistani Taliban. 
 
Finland is investigating an outage in a cable connecting its power grid with Estonia. The S Link 2 interconnector allows the free flow of power across the Baltic Sea. It went out on Wednesday, and officials fear it could have been an act of sabotage. There have been numerous outages of power lines, gas pipelines, and telecom links in the Baltic Sea in recent years. 
 
Brazilian authorities are investigating a deadly bridge collapse that happened on Sunday, killing at least four people and sending trucks loaded with hazardous chemicals plunging into a river in the northeastern part of the country. The trucks were carrying huge quantities of pesticides and sulfuric acid, raising concerns about environmental damage. Authorities are warning residents not to drink or bathe in the river's water. 
 
Well, Christmas Day in the UK Means all eyes turn to the royal family. King Charles and much of his family marked the day by attending a service at St. Mary's Magdalena Church in Sandringham Estate. And the King also delivered his Christmas message, a traditional dating back to the 1930s. He thanked the doctors and nurses who helped Catherine, Princess of Wales, during her cancer fight earlier this year. And he also wished for peace all over the world.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KING CHARLES III, UNITED KINGDOM: On this Christmas day, we cannot help but think of those for whom the devastating effects of conflict in the Middle East, in Central Europe, in Africa, and elsewhere pose a daily threat to so many people's lives and livelihoods. We also think of the humanitarian organizations working tirelessly to bring vital relief. After all, The Gospels speak so vividly of conflict and teach the values with which we can overcome it. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Music filled St. Peter's Square before Pope Francis delivered his annual Christmas Day message. The 88-year-old pontiff called for peace in the Middle East, describing the humanitarian situation in Gaza as extremely grave. Pope Francis also called for weapons to be laid down in Ukraine, again pushing for a peace deal. 
 
Now all this comes as the Catholic Church begins its Jubilee year, as Christopher Lamb reports.
 
CHRISTOPHER LAMB, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Pope Francis emphasizing that the Christmas message is one of peace and reconciliation, calling on countries to lay down their arms and for enemies to be reconciled. France is making specific reference to the war in Ukraine and in Gaza. This is what he had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
POPE FRANCIS, HEAD OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH (voiceover): May there be the boldness needed to open the door to negotiation and to gestures of dialogue and encounter in order to achieve a just and lasting peace. May the sound of arms be silenced in the Middle East. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
LAMB: The Pope's remarks in Ukraine Coming after Russia's attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure on Christmas Day, the Pope has repeatedly called for a negotiated peace settlement to end Russia's war against Ukraine. He's also been outspoken recently on what's been going on in Gaza, calling recent airstrikes cruelty and also being in regular contact with the Catholic community in Gaza. 
 
Now Pope Francis making his remarks after launching the Catholic Church's Jubilee year, an ancient tradition that focuses on forgiveness and pilgrimage and which began on Christmas Eve when Pope Francis opened the doors of the holy door of St. Peter's Basilica, normally cemented shut the door meant to represent God's mercy, the Pope said. And Francis is hoping that the message of the Jubilee can be one of hope and one that can impact not just in Rome but globally. 
 <br>[14:15:08]
 
Pope Francis is 88 years old. He's got a packed schedule of events during the Jubilee. He'll be opening a holy door in a prison tomorrow, Thursday, the first time the holy door has been opened in a prison. But nevertheless, despite the difficulties the pope has when it comes to his physical mobility, France is determined to carry out the celebrations of the Jubilee and hoping that the message that the Jubilee represents will resonate across the globe. Christopher Lamb, CNN, London. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, for more on the meaning of holiday celebrations around the world, I'm joined by Russell Levenson. Earlier this year, Rev. Levinson retired after 17 years as pastor at St. Martin's Church in Houston, Texas, the largest Episcopalian church in the U.S. He served as a spiritual advisor to President George H.W. Bush and First Lady Barbar Bush and preached at both of their funerals. He's the author of In God's Grip, What Golf Can Teach Us About the Gospel and of the Go, A Vision for Tomorrow's Priests and Pastors. And he joins me now from Birmingham, Alabama. 
 
Reverend Russ, this is so good to see you. Merry Christmas. I can't think of anyone else I would rather talk today than you, so I appreciate the time. Listen, we've known each other for many, many years. I'm Jewish, you're Christian. This could be the start of a joke, but it's not. It's our reality. 
 
And we have over the years sent each other messages commemorating our own respective holidays. And what's unique about today is that we have Christmas and Hanukkah, the first night of Hanukkah coinciding for the first time in, I think, nearly 20 years. Talk about the significance of celebrating both of these holidays today. 
 
REV. RUSS LEVENSON, AUTHOR, "IN GOD'S GRIP" AND "GO": Yeah. First of all, it's very good to be with you again, Bianna. Very grateful to be invited to be with you and appreciate our friendship over the years. And, of course, we're all praying for the Texans today because I know you're a Houston fan. 
 
But outside of that, I do want to say it really is a remarkable event. I've been watching your NewsHour, and it's great to see these messages from around the world, whether it be King Charles in England, what's coming out of the Vatican, all kind of a unified call, of course, for what the great three Abrahamic faiths believe and proclaim, which is that the great value of faith for each of us, regardless of our tradition, is to find a way to love one another and treat one another with care and kindness. 
 
You and I come from the same strain as the Islamic faith. We all have Abraham, is a patriarch in our faith. But of course, the Hebrew scriptures speak lovingly of the importance of loving our Lord God with all of our heart, soul, mind and strength, and loving our neighbors ourselves from Deuteronomy. And then Jesus, of course, said the same thing. He quoted that. And then on the night before his own crucifixion, he reminded his followers that the most important thing they could do, the way in which others would know they were followers of him, would be to love and care for one another. 
 
And that was, you know, I have a lot of things that are connected to my Christian faith that are important. We have creeds and we have ways of worship and particular things that we believe unique to our faith. And that's my job, to proclaim that. But at the end of the day, it was the word Jesus who said, on this Christmas Day. if you want to know you're a follower of me, then you're called to love other people. And that love shows no bounds. And so it crosses the boundaries of creed, of race, of geography, of the way in which we come to our Lord. 
 
You know, it's your faith, it's the Hebrew faith that proclaims a lot of the rabbis. There was this common belief by Rabbi Joseph Ben Levi, who wrote. Whose name I carry a little bit of, who said, a procession goes before each person created in God's image, which is what you and I both believe. A procession goes before each procession of angels goes before each person proclaiming, behold the image of God. 
 
And what if we, on this day when Christmas and Hanukkah fall together, remember that everyone is created in God's image and we are to treat each other in that way. Sorry, I've been retired for a while, so I haven't preached in a while. This may go on for an hour. 
 
GOLODRYGA: It's a beautiful sentiment. And you know, what made you. One of the reasons you were so popular and beloved at St. Martin's and among the parishioners there was that you made everyone feel welcome. You made everyone feel loved, and you didn't judge. And in fact, you always viewed the church as a place where people come to meet other people. And that was so important to you. And I'm just wondering what message you send to those there. 
 <br>[14:20:08]
 
There are so many celebrating with families and loved ones and friends today, going to church. But then this is also the time of year when people feel exceptionally lonely at times and suffer from sadness. What is your message to those people? 
 
LEVENSON: Yes, you know, this is the time of year when I often think about people who've had loved ones passed from this life to the next and are going to their first special holiday moment without that person. And so they do feel lonely. And yet I think the message of our fates is that we have a God who understands that loneliness, who loves us in that loneliness, and who seeks to be present in our loneliness. I mean, the great news of my faith is that God thought enough of us not to remain in heaven, but to be incarnate in the child Jesus and come and be among us. 
 
But again, I think that we're called upon as people of faith to continue to find ways to reach beyond ourselves. And I'll be the first to say I am not perfect. I don't always practice my faith. I'm not always kind. There are days when I'm not as loving as I should be, but I don't get an off because of that. 
 
And I think you've heard me quote before, and I use this a lot. When I had my St. Martin's years, a great poem by the poet Edwin Markham, 20th century poet, he said, "Hated, despised, a thing to flout. They drew a circle that left me out. Love and I had the wit to win. We drew a circle that took them in." 
 
And every day we have the opportunity to draw larger and larger circles around those that we, whose lives we touch. And so often, in my own prayers. I'll pray in my own prayers. I'll pray that, you know, let me somehow be a blessing to those I encounter today. I'm sure there are plenty of days when I fall short of that, but I think if we are open and keep our eyes open, we will see those people who are lonely. 
 
We will see those people who need our love. We will be called to reach out to those people. And in a time, and you again, you and I have talked about this in a time when we still have a lot of division in the public square over whatever it is. And I don't want to go down that road on a special day like today. But, you know, it's never the wrong decision to be kind. It's never the wrong decision to care for others. It's never the wrong decision to love. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And it's never too late to start either. And Reverend, in the limited time we have left, I know you've retired, but you've also said that you've had a calling up until the very end. So you are still doing what you said you were put on earth to do, just in a different form. You've written numerous books. Your latest, in addition to In God's Grip, what Golf Can Teach Us about the Gospel, you also write Witness to Believe, stories of Faith about people you know. You talked to dozens of people, many celebrities, names we are well familiar with, Denzel Washington, Sam Waterson, Condi Rice, about their love for their faith and about their connection to their faith. 
 
Talk to us in the final moments about what you've learned from some of these people and what you're doing in Alabama now for a very special church there in Birmingham. 
 
LEVENSON: Sure. I'll be brief. That book is scheduled to come out next fall. And it's been remarkable to be with this list of people you've spoken about 12 dozen people in all who, though they have attained things like wealth, success, power, what an influence, whatever it is. They still know all that goes away at the end. And almost to a person, all of them talk about, well, you know, I do feel blessed to have received those things, but I know part of the goal of our lives is to share the ways I've been blessed with others. 
 
So every person I've spoken with is involved in ways of care for the community, their church, our world, whatever it is, in some other way. And I think one of my favorite quotes was I sat down with Amy Grant and she said, you know, all those things that people think matter. She said, they do. They do. I mean, I'm glad to have those things, but they're kind of like the dopamine hit you get from a thumbs up on your Facebook page. It lasts about that long. 
 
And so that quotes in the book. But coming back to Birmingham, a place I do grew up, I have been fortunate to be called alongside Dr. Arthur Price, who's the pastor of 16th Street Baptist Church here. And they're in the middle of trying to expand their facilities. And I volunteered my time to help raise some money for them. And I encourage people to go to that place.
 
That was bombed in September of 1963, but is now an outpost for reminding people how important it is to again love one another and to cross those boundaries that we call, they like to call themselves a living presence of the gospel in the community of Birmingham. And Dr. Price does a great job of doing that. And if you want to find out more, go to their website and help support that work they're doing because it's an important place and it's a reminder that dark days don't have to be the only days. And a lot of light can come out of things that are dark. And that's, of course, that's what Dr. King said. 
 <br>[14:25:20]
 
It's only love that draws out hate. It's not more hate. It's only light that draws out, you know, more light, not darkness. So on Christmas Day, Hanukkah Day, love one another, care for one another, be kind to one another and be a light to the world. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Amen. Love trumping hate always. Reverend Russ Levenson, now in Birmingham. I'm going to have to get used to saying that instead of in Houston. As you said, go Texans. My family will be at that game. We'll be watching that after, of course, they watch the two of us speak. Merry Christmas to you and your family. Thank you so much.
 
LEVENSON: Thank you and happy Hanukkah. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Thank you. And we'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, while some may dream of a snowy white Christmas, for others Christmas means a day at the beach. That's where many Australians spent the Christmas holiday. It's summer right now in the Southern hemisphere, obviously. Highs in Sydney hit 83 degrees Fahrenheit or 28 degrees Celsius. So no sweaters needed there. And Santa hats still go well with shorts and a bathing suit. It's just a different look. Looks beautiful. 
 
Well, that is it for this edition of CNN Newsroom. I'm Bianna Golodryga. Thanks so much for watching. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)