Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Vladimir Putin Arrives in Pyongyang; Boeing CEO Testifies Before Senate Committee; Boeing Company Retaliated Against Whistleblowers; Israel's Potential Lebanon Offensive Approved; Mexico, China, and U.S. Law Enforcements' Cartel Crackdown in America; Criminal Network Bust; Biden to Shield Undocumented Spouses From Deportation; The Rise of "Pig Butchering" Scams; Thailand Approves Marriage Equality Bill; Babbel A.I. and Language Learning; Ronaldo Breaks Another Record at Euro 2024. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired June 18, 2024 - 18:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE:  It's 5:00 a.m. in Bangkok, 7:00 a.m. in Pyongyang, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. 
 
 And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move." And here's today's need to know. Putin in Pyongyang. The Russian president greeted on the tarmac by Kim Jong Un as 
 
 he landed in North Korea.
 
Boeing backlash. The playmaker's CEO apologizes to the families of victims of two 737 MAX crashes while being grilled over safety issues by U.S. 
 
 lawmakers.
 
Cartel crackdown. Law enforcement in China, Mexico, and the United States unite against drug money laundering networks in America.
 
And a Babbel battle. The global language learning system mixing artificial and human intelligence aka personal tutors in a bid to become the top 
 
 translation app. That conversation and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, Russia's President Vladimir Putin has arrived in North Korea for talks with leader Kim Jong Un. It's his first visit there since the year 
 
 2000 when he met with Kim Jong Un's father, the late Kim Jong Il. North Korea maximizing the pomp and ceremony for the occasion, Russian flags 
 
 bunting, even photos of President Putin himself lining the streets.
 
It's an important moment for the two leaders, both increasingly at odds with the west. Russia, of course, it's become yet more isolated over the 
 
 war in Ukraine and needs basic ammunition supplies. On North Korea requires both economic and advanced technological support after years of 
 
 international sanctions.
 
Will Ripley joins us now from Taipei on this. A very personal welcome, perhaps, as you would expect. Will, good morning. Do we have any sense now 
 
 of what North Korea has planned for this showcase?
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Vladimir Putin's flight, Julia, arrived at 3:00 a.m. So, who are -- who do you know who you like so much 
 
 that you'll pick them up at the airport at 3:00 a.m.? Maybe family. You know, not necessarily a casual friend. I mean, you know, certainly was a 
 
 symbol to have Kim Jong Un waiting there for Vladimir Putin. And that's exactly the kind of image that he wants to project.
 
You know, they got into the limo. They drove through the streets with all the lights on, by the way. It said they were charmingly lit, even in a 
 
 city, in a nation that is notorious for blackouts and difficulty generating electricity.
 
And Kim Jong Un even showed Putin around his guest house for what is likely to be a few hours of sleep before a very full day, a day of meetings, a day 
 
 of signing this strategic partnership of which the details we hope to learn at least something in the coming hours and days.
 
This was supposed to be a two-day trip. Unclear, though, if that's actually going to be a two-day trip or now just one -- you know, two days packed 
 
 into one supersized day given the fact that Vladimir Putin, who is notorious for usually being late most places, arrived basically not on the 
 
 day that he was supposed to, but several hours early into the -- into this day here in Asia.
 
What day is it? Gosh, Julia, I swear it's like the days are running together for me. I can't even imagine what it's like for Vladimir Putin. 
 
 Anyway, let's talk about -- and I'm going to just throw to the tape so I don't keep rambling here, and I'm going to have a sip of coffee as we take 
 
 a look at what's at stake here for these two leaders because there really is a lot.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Russian President Vladimir Putin stepping foot on North Korean soil for the first time in 24 years, a late-night landing in 
 
 Pyongyang for Putin's presidential plane. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un rolling out the red carpet for Putin. Pyongyang's Kim Il Sung Square decked 
 
 out for a massive celebration in Putin's honor, the global outcast getting a grandiose welcome in signature North Korean style, says Chad O'Carroll of 
 
 NK News.
 
CHAD O'CARROLL, FOUNDER, NK NEWS:  Flags everywhere, red carpets everywhere, military bands everywhere portraits of Putin adorning all the 
 
 streets. I think for a leader with dictatorial tendencies, it's probably a dream come true.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Kim invited Putin to Pyongyang after their landmark meeting in Russia last year. Satellite images of the North Korean capital 
 
 show preparations for a military parade. The U.S. and South Korea warn Kim may be seeking sophisticated Russian military technology and economic 
 
 support in exchange for weapons and ammunition, helping Putin wage war in Ukraine.
 
O'Carroll says Kim's wish list for Putin could include advanced Russian fighter jets, ballistic missile, and spy satellite expertise, sending North 
 
 Korean workers to Russia, generating critical revenue. The two are expected to sign a new strategic partnership, replacing previous agreements from 
 
 1961 and nearly a quarter century ago when Putin last traveled to Pyongyang a few months into his presidency.
 
Analysts say North Korea may have been an afterthought to the Russian leadership back then. O'Carroll says times have changed.
 
RIPLEY:  What do you think Kim Jong Un is getting right now?
 
O'CARROLL:  He's getting legitimacy he's on the world stage. You know, this couldn't be better for Kim Jong Un.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  All without having to give up a single nuclear weapon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY (on camera):  So, today we expect hugs and handshakes and joy. But experts say this alliance is somewhat fragile, Julia. A ceasefire in 
 
 Ukraine, for example, could drastically shift the dynamics here. Russia, they have made a commitment to North Korea, but that is, of course, because 
 
 they need North Korean weapons and ammo.
 
That might wane if there was a deal, whether it be a ceasefire, a deal with the United States and the whole dynamic here could shift. But at least for 
 
 the time being, these two, they are like, together.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and it serves a purpose for them both. We shall see what comes of the rest of the day. You are obviously going to drink more coffee. 
 
 I also have a coffee here, by the way, and I'm going to take a leaf from your playbook, which is just throw to tape. I'm going to drink my coffee. 
 
 See what happens. Will, thank you for gracing us with your presence, my friend. Good to have you.
 
RIPLEY:  It's just my water here. Cheers. Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I know. Just dilute it a little. Thank you. All right. To very serious subjects now. Far from perfect, the words of Boeing's outgoing CEO 
 
 about the culture at the firm. Dave Calhoun apologized once again while he was pressed by senators on Capitol Hill. He admitted the company had 
 
 retaliated against employees who raised safety concerns.
 
Before getting to that, Calhoun turned his attention, though, to the families of those who died in Boeing crashes, and he apologized. He went on 
 
 to say the company had changed for the better.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVE CALHOUN, CEO, BOEING:  Much has been said about Boeing's culture. We've heard those concerns loud and clear. Our culture is far from perfect, 
 
 but we are taking action and we are making progress. We understand the gravity and we're committed to moving forward with transparency and 
 
 accountability while elevating employee engagement every step of the way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Richard Quest joins us now. Richard, my view on this is it was an absolute mess. Never mind far from perfect. This was deeply imperfect 
 
 today. He was asked basic questions. He couldn't remember the compensation, money that was paid to the victims of these families. He didn't know how 
 
 many people had been fired as a result of retaliation against whistleblowers. They were popping up ahead of this hearing. What do you 
 
 make of what happened?
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR-AT-LARGE:  It was not a stellar performance by any stretch. The way in which he had to admit he hadn't seen 
 
 documents sent by Boeing to the committee that he had to admit were gibberish, the fact that he didn't know how many whistleblowers or that 
 
 he'd met the whistleblowers, it was a poor, sort of performance.
 
But I think what really stood out for me was when he stood up and did that apology to the relatives. He was the CEO brought in after those crashes to 
 
 improve the safety culture. He had two years to do it and spectacularly failed with the Alaska door blowout.
 
So, that begs the question, which he was asked again -- I mean, one senator, Senator Hawley, not surprisingly, said, why don't you resign, 
 
 basically, and go. Well, he has essentially resigned. He's going at the end of the year. He is, Julia, the scapegoat. They're heaping everything on it. 
 
 He's happy to take it on his back because he's got a very good compensation package.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Is that what's going on, Richard, in your mind? That's the strategy here.
 
QUEST:  Yes. I think that that's a -- they're looking for a new full-time CEO to take over at the end of the year. Stephanie Pope has been promoted 
 
 as the president. They've put a restructuring place in. But you put Calhoun up, and he takes all the heat. And rightly so. I mean, look, you cannot 
 
 escape this fundamental fact that Alaska happened two years after he takes over and promises a change in safety culture.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
And the whistleblowers continually say that that change has not happened. And then, you get this subpar performance today. He looked like a man who 
 
 was troubled. He looked like a man who was sort of wretched in a sense, but underneath it, there is a steel core, a Boeing steel core, if you will, 
 
 that they've all got a Boeing, and that is, we'll get it right and we'll get it right when we get it right.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Four words, too big to fail. I think the quote from them -- 
 
QUEST:  Now, now. I'm glad you mentioned that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Well, go on. I was going to quote from Senator Hawley first, it's working out great for you. For the American people, they're in danger. 
 
 For your workers, they're in peril. For your whistleblowers, they fear for their lives. But you're getting compensated like never before. A cool $32.8 
 
 million last year, Richard. 45 percent increase on what he got in 2022. Ouch.
 
QUEST:  Right. Too big to fail, because -- nothing because of his compensation, but because the airlines need two major manufacturers, at 
 
 least two. And there are only two, Airbus or Boeing. Now, if you remove Boeing or Boeing gets on the back foot -- and by the way, he also said the 
 
 supply chain issues will continue, they've not been solved.
 
Then you start to see -- one CEO basically said to me, I think it was United's CEO, said, look, we need them both. We need them both because we 
 
 need so many narrow-bodied planes in the hundreds that one manufacturer cannot do it. And anyway, you want to play them off against each other, 
 
 Airbus versus Boeing. So, the aviation industry does not want to see in any shape or form the demise of Boeing.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I mean, that's true. But in my mind, when you're paying for failure like that, to that extent of a CEO of a business, who can't 
 
 even answer basic questions, even with your point about the strategy for him to basically go down with this plane and take full culpability, I don't 
 
 know, something smells, Richard, I dislike it. Great to have you with us.
 
QUEST:  Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, I thought you're going to get a final word there, but you didn't. OK. Thanks, Richard. All right. Let's move on. Israel's military 
 
 says it now has approved plans for a potential offensive in Lebanon. For months, the Israel Defense Forces have traded fire with Hezbollah, a 
 
 militant group based in Lebanon.
 
However, this doesn't necessarily mean war is imminent. The U.S. has been trying to avoid a wider war through diplomacy, spending a special envoy to 
 
 Lebanon and Israel this week. But Israel has been preparing for that possibility that diplomatic efforts could fail.
 
Let's get more now from Oren Lieberman, who's in Tel Aviv for us tonight. Oren, good to have you with us. I think that's the point we should 
 
 emphasize here, there has to be some form of preparation if those diplomatic efforts to de-escalate what we've seen since October the 7th 
 
 fails.
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Absolutely. And that's what the Israeli military is saying here. The northern command putting out a 
 
 statement from the IDF saying it has validated its operational plans for an offensive in the north. It doesn't mean a war is about to start tomorrow. 
 
 Or rather, if you look at the hostilities now as already a conflict, that wider war is about to start tomorrow.
 
But it is the IDF of saying, look, we're monitoring the northern border. We know Hezbollah has fired some 5,000 rockets and missiles and drones across 
 
 the border since right after October 7th. And it would be foolhardy to think that somehow this will just end and that diplomacy will work. 
 
 Certainly, that possibility is there.
 
And the U.S. envoy here, Amos Hochstein, has held meetings here over the last couple of days to try to make diplomacy work. But in this region, 
 
 that's never a given. And the IDF is just putting out a statement saying, it's ready if it gets to that point. And crucially, if that order comes.
 
There are still voices here, many of them in senior leadership positions saying, look, we are ready for diplomacy to work, looking for an off ramp. 
 
 And it has repeatedly been said by the U.S. that neither Israel nor Lebanon nor Hezbollah are looking for a war. And yet, one miscalculation could 
 
 easily lead to that one. One attack from either side that kills too many people or causes too great of a catastrophe can easily lead to a wider war.
 
This is the IDF saying, look, if that moment comes and the order is given, the plans are in place to carry out an offensive. The question, of course, 
 
 as we've seen over the last couple of days up north is where is this headed? It's not the volume of fire today, yesterday that we're seeing a 
 
 couple of days ago, there aren't the fires raging in Northern Israel that we've seen, and yet, the world, and certainly the U.S. remain concerned.
 
And that's because if you compare Hamas to Hezbollah, Hezbollah is a far more powerful organization with a far larger arsenal. And if that were to 
 
 come into play versus Israel's military, a war could be catastrophic in Southern Lebanon and Northern Israel.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, crucial point. Oren Liebermann, thank you so much for that.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
Now, the United States says it struck a sizable blow against Mexico's notorious Sinaloa drug cartel and a Chinese network that allegedly 
 
 laundered the cartel's illegal profits. Justice Department officials in Los Angeles said the Chinese groups handled more than $50 million from the sale 
 
 of illegal drugs like fentanyl and cocaine. Two dozen people have been charged.
 
Our Cybersecurity Reporter Sean Lyngaas has more. Sean, this is interesting. So, this looks like a coordinated effort from U.S. officials, 
 
 Chinese officials, and Mexican officials too. How rare is this? And what's the potential, I guess, for it to be scalable?
 
SEAN LYNGAAS, CNN CYBERSECURITY REPORTER:  Yes, Julia, it is quite rare to see the U.S. praising collaboration with the Chinese government in 
 
 particular on these money laundering charges, on drug trafficking. For a long time, U.S. officials have pleaded with their Chinese counterparts to 
 
 crack down on both the production of things like fentanyl precursors or chemicals used to make fentanyl, but also on the money laundering rings 
 
 that are allegedly being used by the Mexican cartels to clean their cash.
 
They have to find a way to get it out of the U.S. Get it out of Mexico, and get it back into sort of legitimate looking accounts. And that's where some 
 
 of these money laundering networks come in that are long established. It's been about a decade now that -- according to U.S. officials and private 
 
 experts that Chinese money laundering rings in, in the U.S. and in Latin America have been working with the cartels to launder the money.
 
And what we're seeing today is the, you know, sort of the tip of the spear. There's an ongoing series of investigations. We've gotten a glimpse behind 
 
 the scenes of some of the tactics that law enforcement are trying to use to disrupt these networks. But it's such a lucrative trade, Julia, that -- and 
 
 it really depends on how willing prosecutors are able -- you know, are to put some of the defendants behind bars for many years. Because otherwise, 
 
 if they do a year or two in jail for lesser charges, they might be willing to go through that and then be able to be released in a couple years.
 
So, it's really a long game of trying to get governments to cooperate more. And to your point, it's a rare occurrence when we have Mexico, China, and 
 
 the U.S. making a sort of joint announcement saying, we were able to apprehend two people in this network.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I mean, hopefully they can do more than this. I was -- it's difficult to find data on any of this, but I was looking at 
 
 remittances to Mexico from the Central Bank last year, $58.5 billion. There was a think tank, Signos Vitales, this year that said they estimated 7.5 
 
 percent of this money may have come from illegal activity. So, that's $4.4 billion. Obviously, it's separate from what's necessarily being laundered, 
 
 but that gives you a sense of the scale potentially of this and what they have to crack down on. Sean, awesome reporting. Thank you. Sean Lyngaas 
 
 there.
 
Now, in the past few hours, the U.S. president has announced an executive action allowing hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants to apply 
 
 for U.S. citizenship. It coincides with the 12th anniversary of the DACA immigration policy for those known as Dreamers. This new program applies to 
 
 the spouses and children of U.S. Citizens, with the White House saying that more than half a million families will benefit. President Joe Biden laid 
 
 out some of the terms of the new plan.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  This action still requires undocumented spouses to file all required legal paperwork to remain in the United States, 
 
 requires them to pass a criminal background check. And it doesn't apply to anyone trying to come here today. It only applies -- this action is a 
 
 better way. It doesn't tear families apart, while requiring every undocumented spouse to fulfill their obligations under the law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And Kayla Tausche is at the White House for us. Kayla, what more can you tell us about this program? And what's the likelihood of it 
 
 facing legal challenges given it's an executive order today?
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Julia, it allows the hundreds of thousands of spouses of U.S. citizens who themselves 
 
 are undocumented, as well as some undocumented children, to be able to remain in the United States while they apply for work and lawful 
 
 authorization to remain in the United States.
 
There's still quite a ways for them to go to apply for citizenship after that, but this just allows them to seek better employment to seek better 
 
 lodging and simply to not have to leave their families to be able to secure that. Under the prior law, someone would have had to leave the U.S. to 
 
 apply for that authorization. And if they were found to have been in the U.S. unlawfully, they could have had to remain outside the U.S. for up to a 
 
 decade.
 
So, that's what President Biden is saying when he talks about keeping families together. That was one of the highlights of the messaging today in 
 
 the East Room when the president unveiled this action, and it was part of the messaging that the Biden campaign unleashed earlier this morning, 
 
 amplifying this action and seeking to pit it against the policy of Former President Donald Trump who was separating families at the border.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
Now, you mentioned the possibility for legal challenge it is quite certain that this will run up against legal challenges, as nearly every immigration 
 
 action that is done by executive order or executive authority has run into, regardless of who has been in the seat of the president. That's just 
 
 something that has happened as far as recent memory goes back.
 
DACA, for instance was dithering around in the courts for several years because of the scope of that action, and because of the resistance that it 
 
 met. And because this action is the most sweeping since DACA, it's almost certain that it will run up against some similar challenges.
 
But in speaking to officials in the Biden camp, they believe that because the individuals who are impacted by today's action would have otherwise 
 
 been eligible themselves to apply for green cards that they are standing on sure legal footing. But of course, only the judicial system will be able to 
 
 decide that. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, very quickly, Kayla, is this a vote winning strategy? It's sort of whiplash inducing. The White House has gone from being very 
 
 tough on immigration, recognizing it's an election problem in the last two weeks, to now talking about keeping families together. I know this is a 
 
 specific case, but is the belief from the White House that this is, at least net, a vote winning strategy?
 
TAUSCHE:  Well, the White House had been under pressure from both sides to announce actions and policies that appeased both conservatives who are 
 
 frustrated about the -- you know, the lawlessness at the border and the high volume of traffic coming into the country. And so, the president 
 
 needed to do something, as he did a few weeks ago, to restrict asylum and to appear tough on the border.But at the same time, he was facing pressure 
 
 from progressive groups to allow friendlier policies like the ones that he announced today to keep those families together.
 
So, this is really the White House and the campaign trying to neutralize immigration as a campaign issue to try to say that they're doing something 
 
 for everyone and to try to contrast that with the president's opponent.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, delicate balance. Kayla Tausche, thank you for that. And don't forget, CNN is hosting the first U.S. Presidential Debate with 
 
 President Joe Biden and his challenger, Former President Donald Trump, right here, June 27th, 9:00 p.m. in New York, 9:00 a.m. in Beijing.
 
Now, straight ahead, a special report on a scam that has origins in Asia, but is spreading around the world, decimating bank accounts and destroying 
 
 lives. The rise of so-called pig butchering, next.
 
Plus, translation gratification. A.I. is expected to greatly reduce the need for human language teachers and translators. Language app Babbel says, 
 
 not so fast. We'll hear from the company's U.S. CEO.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" a heat wave in New York and new market records to uncork in today's "Money Move." Green on the screen on 
 
 Wall Street with the S&amp;P and the NASDAQ once again hitting all-time highs. All this ahead of the Juneteenth market holiday on Wednesday.
 
NVIDIA also proving once again that it's the main A.I. semiconductor disruptor, its shares rallying 3.5, making the firm the most valuable stock 
 
 on Wall Street by market cap, edging out Microsoft, at least temporarily. NVIDIA shares now up a scorching 180 percent so far this year. Microsoft up 
 
 a mere 20 percent.
 
Now, from A.I. celebrations to E.V. tribulations. The struggling electric vehicle firm Fisker has filed for bankruptcy protection after being unable 
 
 to secure new funding. Fisker is just the latest E.V. firm to go bankrupt. Its CEO had admitted to quality issues with its only model, the Ocean SUV.
 
And stocks meanwhile finishing mostly higher across Asia with Japan and Australia the big winners on Tuesday. The head of the Japanese Central Bank 
 
 saying the BOJ could raise rates next month. And Australia's Central Bank held rates steady Tuesday but warned that inflation does remain above 
 
 target.
 
And in other business news, financial scams have been around since the dawn of civilization in some form or another, but the popularity of social media 
 
 apps and the fear of missing out on investments like crypto have seen the rise of a particularly ruthless type of fraud that has origins in China and 
 
 Southeast Asia. People who've spent years investigating financial crimes say they've never seen anything like it. Ivan Watson has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATT, DENNIS JONES' SON:  As soon as I found out that it was a suicide, I was 100 percent sure that it was the scam. And it just -- it crushed him, 
 
 like took the life out of him.
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It has only been a couple of months since Matt and Adrianne suddenly lost their 
 
 father.
 
MATT:  I mean, our father was the grand optimist. He was always -- and they extinguished that for him.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  I meet them at Adrianne's home in northern Virginia, where their fathers' ashes have yet to be buried. Dennis Jones was an avid 
 
 photographer, guitarist and loving grandfather. But last summer, Dennis started withdrawing from the family, instead talking daily to a woman he 
 
 met on Facebook.
 
WATSON:  The profilers name here is Jessie Chu. Do you think this person exists?
 
ADRIANNE, DENNIS JONES' DAUGHTER:  Yes.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Over time, Jessie convinced Dennis to invest in crypto currency. He pumped more and more money in until it suddenly 
 
 disappeared. Text messages show Dennis was desperate and yet his children say he still trusted his friend named Jessie.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I do believe he loved the person that was -- that he believed was behind that profile.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Carina, who works in biotech in northern California, is also the victim of an online cryptocurrency scam.
 
WATSON:  Were you in love?
 
CARINA, SCAM VICTIM:  I was yes. I really felt like I trust this person.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  She says she first met her scammer on the dating app, Bumble.
 
WATSON:  How much money did you lose?
 
CARINA:  In the end, I ultimately lost $150,000. I mean, I went into a depression. I was depressed. I am ashamed, embarrassed that I had done all 
 
 this without sharing it with anybody.
 
ERIN WEST, SANTA CLARA COUNTY DEPUTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  I've been a prosecutor for over 25 years. I spent nine years in sexual assault. And 
 
 I've never seen the absolute decimation of people that I've seen as a result of pig butchering.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Erin West is a deputy district attorney in northern California, specializing in online crypto scams she calls pig butchering.
 
WEST:  We've got over $5 billion in losses.
 
WATSON:  In 2023?
 
WEST:  In 2023. And that's up 38 percent from last year. And when crime is growing at 38 percent, that's something you better keep your eyes on.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Using fake social media profiles, scammers spend months gaining the confidence of their victims before convincing them to 
 
 invest in crypto currency through fake websites. Those platforms claim huge profits until the money suddenly disappears into the pockets of criminal 
 
 gangs, mostly based out of Southeast Asia.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
A 2023 CNN investigation revealed many scammers are actually themselves victims of human trafficking, like this Indian man named Rakesh, imprisoned 
 
 in this armed compound in Myanmar. He was forced to work, pretending to be a Russian woman targeting Americans online.
 
RAKESH, SCAM VICTIM/SCAMMER:  Like they're providing for us. I got a Russian girl with using a Russian girl fake profile. I need to scam the 
 
 people.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Investigators warn of a mass transfer of wealth, stealing billions of dollars from ordinary Americans. And this year, they 
 
 predict it will only get worse.
 
JEFF ROSEN, SANTA CLARA COUNTY DEPUTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  Many of these perpetrators are beyond my reach. And in order to establish deterrence, we 
 
 need to prosecute some individuals who are running these operations in Southeast Asia.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  U.S. law enforcement say they have yet to arrest a single scammer though the U.S. Secret Service has had better luck in 
 
 recouping some of the lost money.
 
SHAWN BRADSTREET, U.S. SECRET SERVICE SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE, SAN FRANCISCO:  We've been able to claw back millions. But it's still a small 
 
 percentage compared to how much is going overseas.
 
WATSON:  Which is billions?
 
BRADSTREET:  Which is billions.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  The scammers flood social media sites to ensnare victims. Tech companies like Meta, Match Group and Coinbase say they're 
 
 trying to spread awareness about the threat. But deputy district attorney Erin West says that's not enough.
 
WEST:  An enemy has declared war on the rest of the world without really telling any of us that we are at war. And we are not fighting back.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Carina says she spent hours every day exchanging romantic texts with the person she thought she loved.
 
CARINA:  It's heartbreaking for me to see the state that I was in.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  By the time she realized she had been defrauded, Carina says she took out high-interest loans, borrowed money from loved 
 
 ones and had to move back in with her mother.
 
WATSON:  What is the timeline like for repaying your debts right now?
 
CARINA:  Probably 10 years.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  After Dennis Jones took his own life, his adult children were left piecing together what happened by looking through his 
 
 Facebook messages.
 
MATT:  He's saying these are basically evil people. I did not know that such people existed. And he ends it with, the ultimate pain here is that 
 
 I've betrayed my family's trust. This is unbearable.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  In early March, Matt, Adrianne and their sister, Laura, planned to have a meeting to help out their father. The plan was for 
 
 him to move in with Adrianne here in Virginia.
 
ADRIANNE:  Unfortunately, the day that we were supposed to have the meeting is the day that we found out he died. You know, he died embarrassed, 
 
 ashamed, you know, financially devastated and heartbroken. And if sharing our story helps somebody else or another family, then it's worth it.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Ivan Watson, CNN, Leesburg, Virginia.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Coming up here on "First Move," Thailand's parliament has approved a marriage equality bill, a historical first in Southeast Asia. 
 
 More on how couples are reacting after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken 
 
 says the United States is still reviewing a shipment of bombs to Israel over concerns they might be used in densely populated areas. Blinken made 
 
 the remarks at a joint news conference with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg in Washington. Blinken added that the U.S. will make sure 
 
 Israel has what it needs to defend itself.
 
The gag order in Donald Trump's hush money case will remain in effect after New York's highest court declined to hear the former U.S. president's 
 
 appeal. His attorneys had argued that the order preventing him from attacking jurors and prosecutors, among others, is unconstitutional. Now, 
 
 despite the ruling, Trump can still file a petition to have the court hear the case.
 
Justin Timberlake has been charged with one count of driving while intoxicated and has now been released from police custody. Timberlake's 
 
 mugged shot, it can be seen here. He was also cited for running a stop sign and failure to keep in his lane, according to his attorney. Timberlake was 
 
 arrested overnight in Sag Harbor in the State of New York. His next court date is on July 26th.
 
And it's a very special Pride Month in Thailand. The nation set to become the first in Southeast Asia to legalize same sex marriage. The Kingdom 
 
 Senate overwhelmingly approved marriage equality Tuesday.
 
Thailand's king is expected to sign off on the measure the last step before it becomes law. It's only the third place in Asia to allow same sex 
 
 marriage following Taiwan and Nepal. As activists hope this step will encourage other nations to enact marriage equality. Anna Coren has more.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  Watit and Pokponk are professional wedding singers.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
When they're not writing songs for one another, they help to celebrate other people's love. Soon they too will be able to marry.
 
WATIT BENJAMONGKOLCHAI, PROFESSIONAL WEDDING SINGER (through translator):  I am surprised but at the same time I'm very happy. Ten years ago, we had 
 
 to bottle our feelings. And now, I can freely say that I am gay.
 
COREN (voice-over):  On Tuesday, the Thai Senate voted to legalize same sex marriage, a first for Southeast Asia. That success has been hard won.
 
POKPONK JITJAIYAI, PROFESSIONAL WEDDING SINGER (through translator):  This should have happened in Thailand a long time ago. After our success, I hope 
 
 that we'll be like a domino and start that effect to nearby countries.
 
COREN (voice-over):  Pokponk was once forced to abandon a career as a martial arts coach after he says a student outed him as gay.
 
JITJAIYAI (through translator):  My life was shattered. My male students were afraid of me. My female students mocked me, saying I was not a real 
 
 man.
 
COREN (voice-over):  Last year, several mainstream political parties, including ruling Pheu Thai, took same sex marriage to the general election. 
 
 And now, people across the country are celebrating.
 
WOODY MILINTACHINDA, THAI TV HOST:  Will you marry me?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You know I will.
 
COREN (voice-over):  Including TV host Woody and his partner Oat.
 
MILINTACHINDA:  We've been waiting for this moment almost all of our lives. And it's finally happening. This is it. I was out of words. I called him, 
 
 we messaged each other, like, baby, did you see the news?
 
COREN (voice-over):  For so many Thais, relief and joy, politics and the law has finally caught up. And there's no looking back.
 
Anna Coren, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Coming up on "First Move," Sprechen sie Deutsch? Parlez vous Francais? Would you like to? Babbel, the learning, language learning 
 
 app, takes a novel twist with human tutors. We'll lay it all out in plain English after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." Now, ever since the dawn of Google Translate back in 2006, there have been predictions that human 
 
 translators are working on borrowed time. But while A.I. is now firmly established as a go-to resource for travelers and students alike, the need 
 
 for real people remains.
 
In fact, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Statistics. Employment for interpreters and translators is projected to grow by 4 
 
 percent from 2022 to 2032, and that's around the average growth for all occupations.
 
Now, while the foreign language learning at Babbel has been integrating A.I. for over a decade, it recognizes the need for real people in teaching 
 
 too. Today, it's launching a service to offer live private classes with human tutors. Julie Hansen is the U.S. CEO of Babbel, and she joins us now.
 
Julie, fantastic to have you on. I'm sure this is demand-based because you've been doing live teaching with groups now for a number of years. Why 
 
 now go private?
 
JULIE HANSEN, U.S. CEO, BABBEL:  Exactly right. Thanks for having me, by the way. It's just been the number one request from our group classes from 
 
 the beginning. People want to have that personal connection. And it has a lot to do with, like, your own maybe pace of learning, but also the fear of 
 
 speaking in front of others, that goes away when you have a personal tutor. So, that's the biggest thing.
 
And, you know, it's not just that it holds us back, it actually makes it -- we don't learn as well when we're afraid to speak. So, the private tutor 
 
 can really accelerate learning.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, you've got to have the confidence to be able to voice. Otherwise, how are you going to do this? In terms of cost, $75 a month, if 
 
 you're paying annually, I know it changes if you're just paying for a shorter period or in different ways. How much access does that give you to 
 
 a human tutor in this case? If I wanted to do it every other day, could I do it?
 
HANSEN:  Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow.
 
HANSEN:  That -- you know, that's our launch pricing. It's unlimited learning. And we do offer classes, you know, 24/7. We have over 500 
 
 teachers. So, yes, that is how we're doing it.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  It could be difficult to find a slot at some point, though, if people are trying to book these private lessons and there's only 500 
 
 tutors. Will you increase the number of tutors if necessary?
 
HANSEN:  Of course, absolutely. I mean, the program has been growing steadily for the past three years. So, of course, we will. And, you know, 
 
 that's kind of a -- that'd be a great problem to have, wouldn't it, people taking too many classes to enthusiastic. So -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Do you have a guestimate of how much people will do in a month? They'll pay $75, let's say they're doing it annually. How many 
 
 private lessons do you think people will take?
 
HANSEN:  I think we have no idea, actually.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes.
 
HANSEN:  I mean, they are 45 minutes each. You know, so this is a time commitment, a chunk out of your day. Could you really do this every day? I 
 
 mean, that would be fantastic. So, we will see.
 
CHATTERLEY:  We shall see. What about A.I., Julie? Because we did the introduction purposefully. And I think what we've learned, even just with 
 
 our phones now and the adoption of ChatGPT that you could almost instantly translate between foreign speakers and understand what each other is 
 
 saying.
 
Do you think that in some way takes a chunk out of your future business with people thinking, you know what, actually, I don't even need to learn 
 
 another language? And also, with the human tutors. Will we always need human tutors, really?
 
HANSEN:  Well, we are not worried about ChatGPT taking over the language learning business. We -- for certain used cases, like, I'm in a taxi in a 
 
 country, I'm going to once never going to again. I'm ordering a coffee, whatever it is. Those used cases, why would you learn a language? It's so 
 
 much easier to use a tool. And so, we've -- we think that's great.
 
And this has been going on for years, really. I mean, we've all seen people walking down the street, tourists walking down the street in a foreign 
 
 city, you know, and asking someone to talk into their phone so that Google Translate can help, that's already a thing. I don't -- we don't think that 
 
 that's -- and it hasn't hurt our business at all.
 
So, we think A.I. is something that actually makes Babbel better and better. It will allow us to launch more languages, to create our content 
 
 faster, to -- or to refine the content, to make the interactions more personalized and exciting. I mean, we've had a number of A.I. innovations 
 
 in the product for years from pronunciation help and personalized review manager.
 
And we have a conversation partner. I don't think it has a good name yet, but a highly prompted and trained A.I. partner that you can talk to 
 
 practice your Spanish. It's -- we are starting with English speakers, learning Spanish. So, there's -- A.I., we view, as a friend, not an enemy.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Interesting. So, just to wrap that up in a bow, what you're saying is, is if the business grows, and I know you're in the U.S., 
 
 the U.K., Latin American, you're obviously a European company, as the business grows, you will still continue to hire humans to do the teaching 
 
 work and you won't, in any respect, replace them versus just supplementing them and helping them using A.I?.
 
HANSEN:  I'm so sorry. There's a delay audio. I'm having trouble hearing you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, don't worry. Although, I do that too when I don't want to answer the question. I was just saying. Will you assume that even in the 
 
 future, you will end up -- as the business scales and grows, you will hire more humans rather than sort of offsetting some of their workload, at least 
 
 with A.I.?
 
HANSEN:  We believe we will always have humans involved in the product, whether it's delivering the learning services to a learner or tuning the 
 
 A.I. So, for example, one of our A.I. features is pronunciation (INAUDIBLE). We use -- we have real language teachers training that in 
 
 translation coach. And we have real language teachers -- A.I. partner -- so, we believe that they'll always be a role for humans in language 
 
 teaching.
 
Ultimately -- language is about making a personal connection and speaking to other humans. So, we think humans are part of that equation forever.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I have to say trying to have a conversation with someone while holding my phone is not the kind of experience you want. I'm with you 
 
 on that. Yes. Julie Hansen, CEO of Babbel there in the United States. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
And I apologize to our viewers for the slight connection issues there. Thanks, Julie.
 
HANSEN:  Always. Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, if you missed any of our interviews today, they'll be on my X and Instagram pages. You can search for @jchatterleycnn.
 
Coming up next, something that transcends language altogether, football. We have the latest from the Euros where Cristiano Ronaldo breaking yet another 
 
 record.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back. A historic night for Cristiano Ronaldo at the Euros, with Portugal securing a 2-1 victory over the Czech Republic in 
 
 group play. Ronaldo becoming the first player to appear in six European Championships.
 
Meanwhile, the French superstar Kylian Mbappe is undergoing medical treatment after he broke his nose during Monday's win over Austria. France 
 
 is set to take on the Netherlands this Friday, and it's unclear whether their striker will be available. Coy Wire has more on the day's action.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COY WIRE, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Let's start with 39-year-old Portuguese superstar Cristiano Ronaldo, who has begun his 11th major international 
 
 tournament campaign. And with that, a record six Euros, dating all the way back to Euro 2004.
 
Portugal, Czech Republic in their Group F opener. Goal is at the half and then the Czechs go ahead. Lukas Provod with a stunner from the edge of the 
 
 box. That's already the 11th goal outside the box. These Euros one fewer than the entire group stage last time around. Portugal would quickly level 
 
 up, courtesy of an unlucky goal -- own goal from the Czech Republic. The keeper deflecting the ball into his defender's leg and into the net.
 
Late in the game, Portugal thought they'd gone ahead when Ronaldo's header hits the post and the put back in the net by Diogo Jota, but Ronaldo was 
 
 deemed offside, no goal. But in the dying minutes, Portugal would get their winner, taking full advantage of a defensive error to smash that ball into 
 
 the net. 2-1 is the final. Portugal are your winner.
 
In Tuesday's earlier game, Georgia were making their major tournament debut against bordering rivals Turkey. Tensions flying high ahead of the game as 
 
 fans from both sides were seen throwing punches, throwing all kinds of objects at each other. Police officers in riot gear had to step in to 
 
 settle things down ahead of kickoff match time.
 
Even a bevy of armed guards couldn't stop this. Nil-nil midway through the first half. Turkey's Mert Muldur with another one of those bangers from the 
 
 edge of the box. Muldur is a defender, but that's a striker's finish. Boom goes the dynamite, leaving the keeper reaching. No chance of stopping that 
 
 one. Turkey thought they were up 2-nil just moments later, only to see VAR rule it offside. But then Georgia equalized courtesy of Georges Mikautadze.
 
Turkey, they've reclaimed the lead though in the second half. Arda Guler, the Real Madrid midfielder with another absolutely stunning strike, an 
 
 awesome goal. And in the final moments, Georgia were on the all-out attack, sending the keeper up.
 
Kvaric Kalia's (ph) free kick hits the woodwork before the follow ups cleared off the line. Moments later, disaster strikes with Georgia's keeper 
 
 still up. Turkey manages to clear it and break away with a wide-open goal. No way they're missing from there. Three-one is the final. All right. Back 
 
 to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thanks to Coy Wire there. Now, finally on "First Move" a mystery solved in the deep sea. You're looking at a mother squid cradling a 
 
 cluster of eggs. It was filmed by underwater robots off the coast of Mexico back in 2015.
 
Now, what left scientists scratching their heads is that these eggs are twice the size of other deep sea squids. Well, researchers have now 
 
 concluded this mom is a member of the gonatidae (ph) family that breeds giant eggs. Very little, of course, is known about the deep sea, the 
 
 largest living space on earth. But now, another little piece of the puzzle has been solved.
 
I'm not sure quite how high that ranks on your news you need today. And I'm sorry if you were eating dinner or having breakfast.
 
That just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow. Please come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END