Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Witness Recalls Panic after Rocket Attack in Golan Heights; Swim Training Cancellations in River Seine Plague Olympics; Biden to call for Major U.S. Supreme Court Reforms; Most Americans Say Home Ownership out of Reach; Telecoms Operators in France: Fresh Act of "Sabotage". Aired 9-10a ET

Aired July 29, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, it's 03:00 p.m. in Paris where Olympic organizers have cancelled triathlon training due to 
 
 poor water quality in the Seine, and increased levels of E. coli creating uncertainty over tomorrow's competition. It's 02:00 p.m. here in London. 
 
 I'm Becky Anderson, you're watching "Connect the World".
 
Also, in the next two hours, a deadly attack in the Israeli occupied Golan Heights pulling Lebanon and Israel closer to a head-to-head conflict. 
 
 Venezuela's government-controlled election authority names Nicolas Maduro, the winner of a highly disputed election.
 
Last President Joe Biden expected to call for major reforms to the Supreme Court of the United States including term limits. Well, the stock market in 
 
 New York will open about 30 minutes from now. Futures indicating a fairly positive start for investors who are bracing for a big week ahead.
 
The Federal Reserve of course deciding its next move on interest rates after last week somewhat encouraging U.S. inflation report. Tech earnings 
 
 also in focus this week. We start in a region on edge as Israel says its military conducted airstrikes against Hezbollah targets quote, deep inside 
 
 Lebanese territory and along the border on Sunday.
 
Lebanese state media reporting Monday that two people were killed in what was a double strike they say and three were wounded, including a child. And 
 
 this comes after Israel vowed that the Lebanese militant group would quote, pay the price for that deadly rocket attack on Saturday in the Israeli 
 
 occupied Golan Heights.
 
Hezbollah firmly denies it was behind the incident. Our Ben Wedeman is in Beirut, Jeremy Diamond, though. in Haifa, in Israel where I want to start 
 
 today. Of course, you were Jeremy at the scene of this attack over the weekend. What did you learn and what do we understand to have been other 
 
 response by Israel to date?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, that response is still being deliberated by the Israeli government. Although it is clear when you 
 
 listen to the Israeli Prime Minister or the defense minister and on down from there, that there will be a significant response from the Israeli 
 
 military to what they say was a Hezbollah rocket attack that struck up Majdal Shams this Syrian Druze community in the Israel occupied Golan 
 
 Heights.
 
Now, this community has been left absolutely devastated by this attack that killed 12 children wounded dozens of others, it struck a football field in 
 
 Majdal Shams just feet away from a bomb shelter. But there simply was not enough time for these children to get into that shelter as this rocket hit.
 
Just seconds after those warning sirens began to sound, that community is still working to piece itself together. Today, the Israeli Prime Minister 
 
 visiting the community of Majdal Shams to take stock of the damage and also clearly as he prepares to order a very clear response.
 
Yesterday, the Israeli security cabinet convening to deliberate on a potential response, ultimately ending with them giving the Prime Minister 
 
 and the Israeli Defense Minister the authority to choose the manner and timing of an Israeli response to this strike. And the question now, of 
 
 course, Becky, is how significant will that response be?
 
Will it cross any red lines for Hezbollah? And will it potentially trigger this all-out war between these two sides or perhaps even a broader regional 
 
 war as Israel chooses to respond? There's no question that there is a flurry of diplomatic activity at this hour trying to avoid that dangerous 
 
 escalation.
 
Trying to ensure that even as Israel will respond that response will not trigger an even more dangerous series of events. There's no question this 
 
 is a region on edge and a lot of uncertainty as well, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: I know Jeremy, you spoke to witnesses while you were there at the side of this attack over the weekend. Let's just have a listen to what one 
 
 person told you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAYMOR WILI, WITNESSED ROCKET STRIKE: At first, I saw the injured children running around I saw blood. They didn't respond to us. They were panicking. 
 
 I saw a lot of guys gathering here. Most of them didn't go down. I went down here. And I saw a lot of things that are way too gruesome to mention 
 
 out of respect for the families and we tried to help, but it was beyond our help there's nothing we can do.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
ANDERSON: Jeremy, what was the atmosphere there when you arrived at the site?
 
DIAMOND: It was extremely, extremely somber. I mean, this is a very small community of several 1000 people. But beyond that there is the fact that 
 
 they are part of this minority religion to Druze religion and the bonds in this community are very close, we did not meet a single person in this 
 
 community who wasn't somehow affected by this tragedy, who didn't know someone who either had died in this axe in this attack or who knew somebody 
 
 else who did.
 
And there was also certainly a lot of anger, we sat down with the father of one of these victims. 11-year-old Alma, his only daughter who was killed in 
 
 this attack, he recognized her only by the bracelet on her wrist because of how deadly and gruesome the injuries were, in this very, very fatal attack.
 
And he told us that there is no question in his mind that Hezbollah which has denied responsibility, there's no question in his mind that Hezbollah 
 
 is responsible, and he wants to see in response, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: May bring, Ben in here because of course, Hezbollah denying it was behind that attack. Still, though, it says preparing for the response 
 
 from Israel. I want to listen to how Washington sees this through the U.S. lens at this point, let's just have a listen, Ben.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: There is no justification for terrorism period. And every indication is that, indeed the rockets were 
 
 from or the rocket was from Hezbollah. We stand by Israel's right to defend its citizens from terrorist attacks.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, let's see U.S. position from Antony Blinken. Ben, it's clear that the U.S. does not want this to spiral out of control. They do 
 
 though sound like they are backing whatever Israel has planned. What's the view where you are? What are you hearing there in Beirut?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Certainly, there is a lot of concern that Israel is going to launch a major attack on Lebanon. 
 
 The question is, how big is that going to be? Now we heard yesterday from a senior media adviser to Hezbollah, that the group has is in a state of 
 
 mobilization that some of its military posts have been evacuated.
 
But they of course, deny that they had anything to do with this Majdal Shams strike. Now, just a little while ago, I got off the phone with 
 
 Lebanon's caretaker Foreign Minister Abdullah Bou Habib, who told me that through diplomatic contacts, Lebanon has received assurances that the 
 
 Israeli response will be limited.
 
He declined to say what -- who those contacts were. But he said that their understanding is that this means that Israel will not target Beirut, will 
 
 not target they routes International Airport, and will not specifically target what's known as a guy in the southern suburbs of Beirut, where many 
 
 of his Butler's leaders are believed to be based.
 
Now we know that Hezbollah Secretary General Hassan Nasrallah has said that attack in Beirut is a red line for the group and that Hezbollah will 
 
 respond accordingly. So, if it's a limited response by the Israelis, perhaps this could be as the Israeli media saying several days of 
 
 intensified strikes as opposed to a full-scale war between Hezbollah and Israel.
 
Nonetheless, the current situation has many people on edge. Germany and Italy have advised their nationals to leave the country immediately. Other 
 
 countries are reiterating previous advisories to their nationals to leave Lebanon, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, put 
 
 out a video on X or Twitter as it used to be known, advising U.S. nationals in Lebanon to leave before the crisis begins.
 
In her words, she also said that those who are preparing are to stay in Lebanon despite what happens that they should be prepared to shelter in 
 
 place in her words, for a long period of time, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Ben, it's good to have you there, sir thank you. Jeremy, always appreciate it. Thank you very much indeed. More on that of course as we 
 
 move through the next couple of hours.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Meantime, we are monitoring developments in Venezuela where President Nicolas Maduro has been declared the winner of Sunday's election according 
 
 to the government controlled National Electoral Council, as the majority suggested, there will be a quote, bloodbath if he lost, but struck a 
 
 different tone on election day.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NICOLAS MADURO, VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT: We are the guarantee of peace in this country, tranquillity and stability in this historical moment, July 28, 
 
 2024, we are the guarantors of peace. What's more, the only guarantors of peace and tranquillity that this country has to enable it to continue 
 
 building in the near and late future to be able to see the emergence of a more democratic Venezuela.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Position is claiming its candidate Edmundo Gonzalez already won the presidential race. Stefano Pozzebon is in Caracas for us and the U.S. 
 
 and multiple nations in the region, voicing some skepticism over President Maduro's re-election. What is the talk on the ground, Stefano?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Yes, Becky. I mean, many countries in Latin America are expressing far more than skepticism. Countries such as Chile, 
 
 Costa Rica, Peru or Uruguay are already calling these -- and calling for saying that they will not recognize the results that were proclaimed 
 
 yesterday by the government controlled electoral authority.
 
Now here in Caracas, the city and this country wakes up with more questions than answers, Becky. The opposition is state adamant saying that they think 
 
 that they want they think that they have the numbers. And they think that the electoral authorities did not complete their vote count.
 
And instead, Maduro roaring ahead, we understand that that in the next few hours, Maduro will be formally proclaimed as a winner. Now the bowl goes 
 
 back to the opposition's field, we need to understand whether the opposition has any appetite for streets protest yesterday, and we know 
 
 Gonzalez, the opposition candidate did not call for protests on the street, take a listen
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EDMUNDO GONZALEZ, VENUZUELAN OPPOSITION PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: What happened during today's polling day, was a violation of all the rules to 
 
 the point that the majority of electoral registers have still not been handed over. Our message of reconciliation and peaceful change still 
 
 stands. We are convinced most Venezuelans also want this. Our struggle continues. And we won't rest until the will of the people of Venezuela is 
 
 respected.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POZZEBON: Gonzales have run as a transition candidate as a unifying institutional force that will be able to reunite these candidates after 25 
 
 years of de-political polarization under the Chavismo's governments. It seems like that he's still keen on that line. And that's why we haven't 
 
 seen the opposition calling for street protests just yet.
 
Their appeals appear to be directed more at the international community and other countries who can perhaps use their geopolitical levers of power to 
 
 try savage to the situation. There is one thing to notice. Maduro wanted legitimacy out of this election. He already controlled every single level 
 
 of power in this country.
 
He already controlled the legislative, he already controlled the judiciary, and he of course, controls they get the executive power. He wanted 
 
 international legitimacy. And by the look of it, he's not getting it now. So that is an appetite that Maduro might have for negotiating.
 
Two countries that have not taken a firm position just yet are the two biggest geopolitical players in this region, Brazil, because it's the 
 
 largest country in South America and Colombia because of the personal relationship between left wing Colombian President Gustavo Petro and 
 
 Maduro.
 
It will be very interesting to see what happens and what comes out of Bogota and Brasilia in the next few hours to understand what happens in 
 
 Caracas in the next few days.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah know, fascinating. It's good to have you there in Caracas. It's Stefano Pozzebon thank you. But in France, top official says they have 
 
 identified several people who carried out Friday's railway attack just hours before the Olympic opening ceremony. France's Interior Minister says 
 
 the tactics used resemble those of the far left.
 
But authorities are still trying to determine whether those responsible were manipulated by others, or did it voluntarily. While that investigation 
 
 continues, the Olympic organizers have cancelled triathlon training for swimmers in the river Seine for a second day in a row due to poor water 
 
 quality levels.
 
CNN's Melissa Bell following both stories for us from Paris. Let's start with the threat to the triathlon, you quite infamously actually tried that 
 
 water with the mare, what a week or so ago.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Out of your wet suit now and on the banks of the same what do we know about what's going on and the likelihood that this event is going to need to be 
 
 changed, Melissa?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the worrying part for the triathletes, but also those marathon swimmers that are due to 
 
 have their events here in the Seine River towards the end of the games is that those trial, those tests, triathlon training sessions couldn't take 
 
 place, as they were meant to now.
 
What we understand is that the water levels are being tested because of course, remember, Becky, that it is to do with rainwater, right? You had 
 
 those that heavy rain on Friday night that the whole world watched during the opening ceremony continued into Saturday. And of course, when it rains, 
 
 E. coli levels, other bacteria levels rise.
 
So, over the course of the weekend, what you saw is those bacteria levels rise to 10 times the acceptable amounts for any of these events take place 
 
 in the water. There back down to now, last few hours, couple of times over and the question is whether the very latest testing that's taking place 
 
 today will allow the men's event to go ahead tomorrow.
 
We did speak to one triathlete just recently, Becky, about how she felt about the fact that the events can be moved, there are contingency days, 
 
 but it may be that they can't take place at all.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEANNE LEHAIR, TRIATHLON COMPETITOR: It's a complicated subject, but it's more like there were things to do before then, one month before the games 
 
 be Olalla maybe no, no swim, you have like seven years to find another way. So, that's why I'm a bit mad.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BELL: And Becky, now what the organizers says that look, they've planned for these contingency days so that if the water isn't exactly where it 
 
 needs to be for these events to go ahead safely for the athletes, they'll simply -- moved along. But of course, in the two weeks of the Summer 
 
 Olympic Games, there will come a limit to the number of times they can postpone this event, should the levels remain too high.
 
And there's of course the question of what then happens? What the organizers of Paris 2024 essentially told us is that there is no plan B? 
 
 The only possible outcome for these triathletes was that their event would become a biathlon, which, of course would have tremendous implications for 
 
 those triathletes whose strength is in the water.
 
For now, though, organizers are still hoping that the men's event can go ahead tomorrow and the women's on Wednesday, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah. OK. Very briefly, what do we know about these arrests of those alleged to have been involved in the arson, Friday?
 
BELL: Well, for the very beginning security services had told us off the record, Becky, that these were the tactics that have been used by the far 
 
 left before. These were certainly people who knew very well how France's rail network functioned and clearly timed as they were just hours ahead of 
 
 the opening ceremony did get the world's attention and bring to a halt.
 
The hopes of many who had been hoping to get to Paris by train in time for the opening ceremony. What we know is that several people have been 
 
 identified their backgrounds are being looked into, and authorities now trying to figure out whether they were manipulated or what their 
 
 motivations may have been, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. Lovely day in Paris. Thank you. Well, still to come. U.S. President Joe Biden said to take unprecedented action today 
 
 pushing for sweeping changes to the Supreme Court that he says is, quote mired in a crisis of ethics. A look at Biden's proposed reforms just ahead.
 
Plus, the man accused of starting the seventh largest fires in Californian history is expected to import today, more on that, after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: Some breaking news now, the ambulance service in Northwest England says eight patients are being treated for stab injury. Some have 
 
 been transferred to a children's hospital for more Anna Stewart who is following the story for us, Anna.
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It is developing pretty fast. This all happened in a seaside town in the northwest of England called Southport. 
 
 It's a seaside town just outside of Liverpool. It is now home to a major incident at 11:50 this morning, police recall to reports of a stabbing on a 
 
 fairly residential street called Hart Street.
 
And we're now getting more and more information from ambulance services as they're looking at these patients. They dispatched in total 13 ambulances 
 
 along with a number, sort of specialized resources like an air ambulance. Eight patients have been treated so far.
 
And as you mentioned, those have been taken to three different hospitals, which do include a children's hospital, added to which people on the scene 
 
 a local business owner spoke to PA media. He said it was like a scene from a horror movie. He believes multiple young girls were stabbed.
 
He says mothers are coming here now and screaming. The latest from the police. This is Merseyside police, a man was arrested, a knife has been 
 
 seized. And I believe there's no broader risk to the public at this stage. We don't have much more information yet. But once that man, if they are 
 
 charged, we're likely to get more information then.
 
ANDERSON: First day of the summer holidays for many children here in the U.K.
 
STEWART: Exactly.
 
ANDERSON: Knife crime has been a real issue here and one that the government I know will be very mindful about that as much as we have a 
 
 president. Will let you go so that you can dig further on this more on our breaking news, of course as we get it. Anna, thank you.
 
Well, just a few hours from now, Joe Biden is expected to do something no sitting U.S. President has done in generations, demand sweeping changes for 
 
 the nation's highest court. During a Civil Rights Act event. In Texas, Mr. Biden is set to unveil proposals for major Supreme Court reforms which 
 
 include term limits for justices and a binding ethics code.
 
He is also proposing a constitutional amendment that if it passed would eliminate immunity from criminal prosecution presidents. Now this comes 
 
 after months of increasingly sharp criticism of the court's conservative majority. My colleague, CNN's Priscilla Alvarez has the very latest from 
 
 the White House.
 
These reforms that Biden is proposing as we understand it would require congressional approval, the constitutional amendment would require a more 
 
 complicated process involving the states. Are any of these reforms actually realistic at this point?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, the bottom line is no. There is a very little chance of any of these reforms passing because of the divided 
 
 Congress. And also, because it would require that ratification from 38 states for that constitutional amendment having to do with presidential 
 
 immunity, which in and of itself is a complicated process.
 
But what these reforms do, do, is send a message of where the Biden-Harris Administration is on the Supreme Court, and also what we can anticipate 
 
 hearing more of on the campaign trail as a reminder to viewers, this was an event that the president was expected to have before he withdrew from the 
 
 race.
 
It was postponed after the attempted assassination of Former President Donald Trump. So, this was something that the president was going to make 
 
 part of his campaign platform and we're getting a sense that the vice president will do the same in a statement this morning, she said the 
 
 following.
 
Today, there is a clear crisis of confidence facing the Supreme Court, as its fairness has been called into question after numerous ethics, scandals 
 
 and decision after decision overturning long standing president.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
Now, of course, the Supreme Court has come under increased scrutiny for its concerns about its at but also for its controversial rulings. And the vice 
 
 president in particular has been campaigning on the overturning of Roe v. Wade. And so, this again, is something that we will hear about more in the 
 
 weeks to come.
 
And it essentially sends a message why this administration and this campaign that they think that there needs to be an overhaul here of the 
 
 Supreme Court. Now, we laid out why it would be so difficult for these to pass, but if it did, it would mark seismic changes for the way the Supreme 
 
 Court operates.
 
So, these are no small thing coming from the administration from the president again, after generations of presidents not touching this issue 
 
 and these reforms, but certainly it would still face an uphill battle if they were to move forward.
 
ANDERSON: So, you know, I think it would be only right for many of our viewers to say why proposed them if they are very unlikely to succeed. I 
 
 think the point is that it feels like Biden stroke now, the Harris campaign, the White House effectively is looking to tap into the growing 
 
 outrage, at least among Democrats at the court.
 
Former President Donald Trump already bucking any potential changes. Here's what he had to say at a campaign rally on Friday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Point hardcore Marxist to the Supreme Court to shred our constitution on 
 
 all of our religious liberty, she will do that, absolutely. She will try as hard as she can to add as many justices as possible to the U.S. Supreme 
 
 Court, we don't want that to happen do.
 
In other words, she wants to pack the court, which is their number one agenda. And we can't let that happen. We're not going to let that happen.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ: Becky --
 
ANDERSON: During his own time, go on. Tell me. I mean, what's he crafting here?
 
ALVAREZ: Well, Becky, it's interesting to hearing that argument from Former President Donald Trump, because we heard one that was quite similar from 
 
 President Biden when he was on the campaign trail.
 
In interviews, he would say and warn that it is possible that there will be justices who retire in the next several years. So, if there was a second 
 
 term for a Former President Donald Trump that he himself could pick who is going to take those spots. And so that is something that we have heard from 
 
 this campaign before.
 
That there is very -- there is a likelihood that there are justices stepped down in the next four years and whoever is holding the Oval Office will be 
 
 able to choose who gets to sit in those seats. And what they're trying to warn at least the argument by the Biden or rather the Harris campaign now, 
 
 is that these controversial rulings could continue to happen in the years to come.
 
If the Former President Donald Trump were to take a second term. And that is something that is really galvanized Democrats and has worked for them in 
 
 the midterms. And that's why they're using this argument going into November.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, what is a busy White House -- position thank you, Priscilla. Ahead on the show. On affordability crisis, we got the 
 
 findings from a new CNN poll that expose just how out of reach buying a home has become for many young Americans, more on that, after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson in London. You are watching "Connect the World" it is 02:30 in the afternoon it here it is 09:30 in the 
 
 morning on the East Coast. And this is expected to be a big week for investors in the U.S. as we await a key federal reserve decision on 
 
 interest rates traded certainly seemed to have somewhat of a positive outlook because the U.S. and by default many around the world anticipate 
 
 some monetary policy easing.
 
Where the DOW Jones just popping into negative territory. So don't rely necessarily on these being out of the gate. And in really good form. As we 
 
 always say Wall Street, one thing of course, Main Street quite another. The American dream of owning a home is out of reach for many people.
 
A new CNN poll finds that over half of those who now rent and want to buy a house fear that they will never be able to afford one. CNN's Matt Egan. 
 
 Joining us from New York. Tell us more about these poll findings concerned it seems especially amongst young, younger people, young renters, Matt.
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: That's right, Becky, I mean, this is such a frustrating housing market for the millions of Americans who are on the 
 
 outside looking in, right they want to buy, but they can't now with these prices, now with these mortgage rates, and so some of them, they're 
 
 throwing in the towel, and they're giving up.
 
Now this brand-new CNN poll shows that 86 percent of Americans who are renting would like to buy a home, but they just can't afford it, 86 
 
 percent. Only 13 percent say they can't afford it and they're choosing not to. And if you take this a step further, and you just look at those renters 
 
 who can't afford it less than half.
 
46 percent say it's either very or somewhat likely that eventually they'll be able to buy, more than half 54 percent, they say they think they'll 
 
 never be able to buy. This is obviously a very pessimistic take on things. And it shows how for a lot of people, that American dream of homeownership.
 
It just feels out of reach politically, you could see why this would be a problem for the party in power, in this case, the Democrats economically 
 
 This is a major problem because look homeownership that is the ticket to wealth generation in America. So, this is just widening the gap between the 
 
 haves and the have nots, right.
 
If you already own a home, your net worth is going up as home prices have climbed. However, a lot of people they are on the outside looking in, and 
 
 they're just trying to catch up.
 
ANDERSON: What's feeding this affordability crisis? I'm going to have to say I'm here in the U.K., I hear a very, very, very similar story. Here it 
 
 is. It's not just about interest rates. And those may be coming down somewhat. What's really behind this?
 
EGAN: Yeah, there are a number of factors and mortgages are part of the issue. The CNN poll found that 17 percent of those who can afford to buy 
 
 right now have cited an inability to get a mortgage. And that speaks to other issues like maybe they don't have a credit history and maybe they 
 
 have too much debt.
 
Then you also have a large chunk about a third 31 percent They point to interest rates. Now the good news is that mortgage rates here in the U.S., 
 
 they have come down, they were almost 8 percent last year that below 7 percent right now that could go even lower if the Federal Reserve starts to 
 
 lower interest rates.
 
And we know that central banks around the world have begun to start cutting interest rates. So that's good news. But then look at this 40 percent 
 
 they're citing a down payment. Now remember, the median U.S. home is selling for more than $400,000. That's just the median home.
 
So, if you're only putting down 10 percent, you're still have to throw down $40,000 for the downpayment, plus maybe another 10 for closing costs.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
And that really adds up. That's a lot of money for a lot of people. And I've spoken to a lot of younger Americans, millennials, who want to buy and 
 
 they can't. There's a 40-year-old dad of twin toddlers outside of Atlanta, who told me that he's just dismayed at what his money can get him.
 
He said, quote, I'm not going to pay $350,000 for a rundown house. He said, I'm not going to play your game anymore. I'm done. So hopefully, Becky, 
 
 we're going to see mortgage rates keep coming down in home prices chill out a bit, because there are a lot of first-time homebuyers out there who are 
 
 really hurting.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, yeah, absolutely. It's really important to highlight this. Good to have you on. Thank you.
 
EGAN: Thanks Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Next on "World Sport" Nadal and Djokovic, back on the clay courts in France, this time in search of an Olympic glory.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Fashion accounts for 10 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions quite a number. Well, this week we'll be showcasing innovative 
 
 solutions that aim to make the industry more sustainable as part of our Going Green Series. So, we start in Spain, where one designer is turning 
 
 waste into wear. Lynda Kinkade has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): When you think of pineapples, tropical vacation drinks, and divisive pizza toppings might 
 
 come to mind. But for one Spanish entrepreneur, they represent a sustainable solution to a trade that has a massive environmental footprint 
 
 leather.
 
CARMEN HIJOSA, FOUNDER OF ANANAS ANAM: This has been a Pinatex. Pinatex is made from pineapple leaf fibers.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): After working in leather goods for 15 years, common a wholesaler began to see how destructive the industry could be while working 
 
 in the Philippines.
 
HIJOSA: I really realized going to see a tannery that you know making leather is not a very sustainable thing.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): Inspired by traditional Filipino plant-based textiles, Hijosa came up with the idea of using discarded pineapple leaves 
 
 to develop an eco-friendly leather alternative.
 
HIJOSA: The creation of Pinatex starts in the farming communities where they gather the leaves after the harvest of the pineapples. We're using a 
 
 waste material to get these fibers. We don't need any land, any water, any pesticides or fertilizers.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): The conventional animal leather industry is linked to habitat loss and greenhouse gas emissions from livestock farming.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
The tanning process itself is energy and water intensive and can use toxic chemicals that can leach into water waves.
 
HIJOSA: 80 percent of the Amazon Basin is basically cut down to have cattle ranching there and they still have to grow food for the cattle and water. 
 
 You can see the stages before even we touch the skin how environmentally negative, they are.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): With the help of a Filipino textile company, Hijosa says it took a decade to develop and refine the Pinatex manufacturing 
 
 process. After the fibers are extracted from the leaves cleaned and hung out to dry in the sun, they're sent here to a processing center in Spain,
 
HIJOSA: We've got great variety of textures, colors and characteristics in Pinatex. If we compare Pinatex quality with the look and feel of leather, 
 
 it's actually quite similar in a way. It has that grainy look and feel. We have big brands like Nike that they use Pinatex, Hugo Boss, Calvin Klein 
 
 more in the high fashion if you like we have Carolina Rivera.
 
I see Pinatex in the future by branching out into different markets but also to me it's easy to invent for something which is really the greatest 
 
 good for people and planet and this is really, really very important for me.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: And for more stories from this series, you can visit cnn.com/goinggreen and just in, Telecoms operators in parts of France say 
 
 they've been hit in a fresh act of sabotage. Overnight fiber optic lines were damaged in what is described as a major incident. This happening of 
 
 course just days after the railway infrastructure attack in France.
 
Officials say backup routes are allowing traffic to be rerouted. Although latency has been affected. And we should have more on this in the next 
 
 hour. And we concentrate on the sport of the Olympics in Paris at present two titans of tennis. Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic have just faced each 
 
 other on the clay court in Paris.
 
This time playing for their countries at the Olympics -- We'll be back with that in "World Sport" live from Paris after this short break. I'll be back 
 
 top of the hour with more "Connect the World". Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END