Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: The Defense Rests, No Trump Testimony; Ireland, Spain, Norway To Recognize Palestinian Statehood; Passenger: "All Hell Broke Loose" On Deadly Singapore Air Flight; Deadly Tornadoes Level Homes And Business In Iowa. Aired 5-5:30a ET

Aired May 22, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:39]
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  It's Wednesday, May 22nd.
 
Right now on CNN THIS MORNING:
 
The defense rests. Now, the fate of the former for president will be decided by 12 Manhattan jurors.
 
Deadly turbulence. One passenger killed, dozens more injured when a Singapore airlines passenger jet hits some very rough air.
 
And -- a devastating tornado tearing a small town in Iowa to pieces.
 
(MUSIC)
 
HUNT:  All right, 5:00 a.m. here in Washington. A live look at New York City.
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us. 
 
The defense rests. Donald Trump's lawyers wrapped up their defense of the former president yesterday in his criminal hush money trial. And to almost no one's surprise, Trump did not testify as promised. The jury won't return until Tuesday for closing arguments, with a verdict possible by the end of next week. 
 
Trump sounding confident going into closing arguments, but refusing to answer why he decided not to testify.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REPORTER:  Mr. Trump, how do you feel going into closings?
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Very good. I think we have -- a great case was put on. They've not proven a case. There is no crime.
 
REPORTER:  Mr. President, why did you decide not to testify in your case? You can always take the stand.
 
REPORTER:  Are you nervous about --  (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  With an extended break in the trial, Trump is returning to the campaign trail for the remainder of the week. "Reuters" reports he'll be holding a fundraiser with leaders of three big U.S. oil companies in Houston later today. "The Washington Post" previously reported Trump had asked the oil executives to donate a billion dollars to his campaign, a little complicated to actually do that.
 
All right. Joining me now to discuss, Sophia Cai, national politics reporter for "Axios".
 
Sophia, good morning. Wonderful to have you. 
 
So, look, no one is surprised or you shouldn't be surprised that Donald Trump decided not to testify in his own defense although I guess you could be forgiven for thinking that he would considering what he has said about it in the past.
 
Watch.
 
Do we have that? We might not have that. 
 
We're just looking for all the times. He said that he would not testify or that he would testify in his own defense, which were many but ultimately, he wouldn't actually answer questions about why he wouldn't testify in this case. Clearly, probably legally the right decision? No. 
 
SOPHIA CAI, NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER, AXIOS:  Right. Something has changed and we saw that from him because his lawyers, I think have suggested that he'd not testify. We know that anytime he goes up there, you know, he tends to incriminate himself. And so, we know that the campaign, as well as Trump himself, has differed a lot to the lawyers and ultimately, I think it was the lawyer's decision for him not to go up there and testify. 
 
HUNT:  So instead of testifying, he used his time outside the court to criticize the judge in this case, Juan Merchan, and he really escalated those attacks. It's something we've seen him do before with other judges. He hasn't done it as frequently in this case, but this is what he said yesterday about Judge Juan Merchan. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  The judge hates Donald Trump. Just take a look, take a look at him. Take a look at where it comes from. He can't stand Donald Trump.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  So, of course, this is what he says. Take a look at where he comes from. He can't stand Donald Trump -- obviously referring to his heritage in Colombia. This is something that, again, we've seen him do with other judges, but it really is remarkable that he takes these attacks to this level. CAI:  Yeah, I mean, I think this is the first time that he, to my
 
 knowledge, has made this particular attack against this judge. But, you know, that's a line that he is used to attack a lot of people that he doesn't like is, you know, to show how they are different in how they shouldn't be trusted. I think he knows that we're getting to the closing days of this trial, so, you know, it could be that he's feeling particularly emotional and coming out to say, say these things.
 <br>[05:05:01]
 
But that's a pretty common line for him. 
 
HUNT:  It says a lot that you are correct when you say this is something that we hear from him a lot to the point where I think for some folks, it seems unremarkable. I think -- think worth just spending a second noting that it is still remarkable.
 
Sophia, of course, this campaign is continuing while he's in the courtroom. He was out there doing some local interviews. As we reported there, he's going to be fundraising.
 
Obviously, one of the major issues on the trail this cycle has been abortion rights in the fall of Roe versus Wade. And one thing Democrats have warned or tried to emphasize is that they believe that there may be Republicans who try to interfere with people's ability to get contraception, right, which is of course different from the abortion pill, different from some of the other things that we talk about here. Much, much farther down the line, I guess you could say. 
 
And Donald Trump was asked by a reporter that Trump was talking to whether or not he would restrict contraception. Here's how Donald Trump answered that question.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
INTERVIEWER:  Do you support any restrictions on a person's right to contraception? 
 
TRUMP:  We're looking at that and I'm going to have a policy on that very shortly. And I think it's something that you'll find interesting.
 
INTERVIEWER:  Will that suggests that that you may want to support some restrictions, like the morning after pill or something?
 
TRUMP:  We are -- we are also -- you know, things really do have a lot to do with the states.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Now, the campaign seems to be trying to walk that back. 
 
Obviously, there is also an abortion pill mifepristone, where there are questions about whether that could be restricted through the mail, et cetera. Some questions about, well, Trump confused these two things. But this is certainly something Democrats are likely to seize on. 
 
CAI:  Oh, yeah, absolutely. I mean, when we went back and asked the campaign just yesterday, after that interview, that campaign told us that Trump, in the time interview, had said that he was planning to announce a new policy on mifepristone so it really does appear like he confused the two. 
 
And as for Democrats, I think this really fell into their lap yesterday because allows them two in a video clip, replay that time and again, reminding voters what a second term Trump presidency look like using Trump's words.
 
HUNT:  And certainly suburban women voters have really been a major reason why Donald Trump lost the election in 2020, and if he loses again in 2024, likely to be another key reason. 
 
Sophia Cai, thanks very much for starting us off this morning. 
 
CAI:  Thanks, Kasie. 
 
HUNT:  I appreciate it. 
 
All right. Coming up next, Israel furious after three European countries make moves to recognize a Palestinian state.
 
Plus, new images of Donald Trump's co-defendant, moving boxes around at Mar-a-Lago.
 
And passengers described the moment a Singapore Airlines flight hit extreme turbulence and turned deadly.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I saw people from across the aisle, just like going completely horizontal, hitting the ceiling.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:12:36]
 
HUNT:  All right. New this morning, three Western European countries making a significant move to try to show support for Palestinians. The prime ministers of Ireland, Spain, and Norway plan to formally recognize Palestinian statehood later this month. 
 
While this move is purely symbolic, it's straining relations with Israel. Israel's foreign minister quickly responded by recalling their ambassadors, writing this: Ireland and Norway intend to send a message to the Palestinians and the whole world today. Terrorism pays. After the terrorist organization Hamas carried out the largest massacre of Jews since the Holocaust, after it committed the most horrific sex crimes the world has been, these countries chose to give a reward to Hamas and Iran and recognize a Palestinian state. 
 
Joining me now is CNN's Max Foster. 
 
Max, good morning coming to you. So less than half of E.U. countries recognize Palestinian statehood. Most are Eastern European countries. What is the significance of this?
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  I think these are very close -- these Joe, these countries that are very central to European politics, they are also very close to the United States. And they've all grouped together effectively this group of three, making the same announcement at the same time. And it was -- they're all saying in response to what they're seeing in Gaza. 
 
So maybe they wouldn't be you doing this if it wasn't at this time, if it wasn't what happened in Gaza and its pretty clear that they're trying to build some momentum here, trying to get other countries to follow suit. So, obvious countries to look to are the United Kingdom and then that obviously raises questions about the United States who have been talking about a two-state solution, but not statehood. 
 
So it does put the us in a difficult position to really clarify themselves on that because some people see it as contradictory, but of course this is absolutely against what Israel, the current government there stands for. And I think there'll be some people in the U.S. would argue actually working towards a two-state solution. Ultimately, this might just get in the way.
 
HUNT:  Why do you think there is a divide between the Biden administration and even many Republicans who at least privately will say that this has been kind of U.S. policy for decades, this idea that we would work towards a two-state solution in the region and that it's Netanyahu that has taken it farther and basically taken that off the table because of his own political imperatives?
 <br>[05:15:10]
 
FOSTER:  Yeah, certainly. We saw that, don't we? We've -- you know, a lot of conversations between the U.S. and Israel. This is a big form tension between Biden and Netanyahu. But it's what point you recognize a Palestinian, state as far as diplomacy is concerned, and that's the -- that's what all the focus here would be on the U.S. because it will be huge thing for them to say it, but it's the timing around that and that might put a lot more pressure on them to bring that timing forward. 
 
I don't think it'll be necessarily be seen as helpful as by some of the United States. But over here in Europe is seen as if you're going to do it, you should do it now and put your cards on the table.
 
HUNT:  All right. Max Foster for us live from London -- Max, always grateful to have you. Thank you so much for being here. 
 
FOSTER:  Thank you, Kasie.
 
HUNT:  All right. Now this, passengers recalling the terrifying moments when their Singapore Airlines flight encountered severe turbulence on the way from London to Singapore. First came the fasten seat belt sign, an indication we should really do better job listening when that sign comes up because after that, quote, all hell broke loose.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DZAFRAN AZMIR, PASSENGER:  But I saw people come across the aisle just like going completely horizontal, hitting the ceiling and let me back down and like really awkward positions, people like getting massive gashes in their head, concussions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Yikes! The flight made an emergency landing just minutes later in Bangkok. Official say a 73 year-old passenger died and more then 70 passengers were injured, six of them critically. 
 
CNN's Anna Coren is live in Hong Kong with the latest on this. 
 
Good morning to you. What is the latest? What are we learning? 
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, harrowing ordeal for the passengers and crew on board that Singapore Airlines Flight 321. It was flying over the Irrawaddy Basin in Myanmar, ten hours into a 13- hour flight, London to Singapore, as you said, Kasie. There were storms in the area, but passengers on board said there was little if no warning. 
 
The seatbelt sign wasn't on in the lead up to this incident. You know, meal service was underway. People were walking around the cabin using the bathroom frames and then suddenly the plane was shaking, it tilted and then dropped violently. As we heard, passengers flying around the cabin, hitting the roof and everything loose became a projectile.
 
A 37 -- 73-year-old man, British man Geoffrey Kitchen, he died. Passengers performed CPR for something like 20 minutes, Kasie. Unfortunately, he passed away. His wife was also among the 71 people who are injured, six are in a critical condition. 
 
Now, Singapore Airlines CEO, he's offered his condolences. He's very sorry for the traumatic experience that people have endured, as we know Singapore Airlines is one of the best and safest airlines in the world. And investigation is underway led by the Singapore transport ministry. But because this is a Boeing airline, Kasie, U.S. National Transportation Safety Board is also involved. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Anna Coren for us with the latest on that, Anna, thank you.
 
All right. Coming up next here, President Biden's warning after team Trump posts and then removes a video that uses language evoking Adolf Hitler's reign.
 
Plus, a powerful tornado flattens a small town in Iowa.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) VALERIE WARRIOR, TORNADO VICTIM:  I was in the furnished room. And then I heard like a train, a train. And then insulation came from the base one of the basement windows and came in. And I heard it and I knew it was hitting.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:22:54]
 
HUNT:  All right, Americas heartland pounded by dangerous storms, at least one person is dead in Iowa where a powerful tornado flattened part of the city of Greenfield. Despite the destruction, residents are counting their blessing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAGGIE MASKER, LOST HER HOME:  It was actually all good like, you can't even tell where we lived. So, yeah. Just kind of crazy. 
 
VALERIE WARRIOR, TORNADO VICTIM:  It's devastating. I've lived here all my life. I'm just praying that everybody was safe, everybody safe, and nobody got hurt.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Officials in Iowa are fearful that the death toll might rise. A hospital in Greenfield sustained considerable damage, forcing injured patients to be transferred to nearby facilities. 
 
Let's get to our meteorologists, Elisa Raffa. 
 
Elisa, good morning to you. Where are these storms heading now? 
 
ELISA RAFFA, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Good morning. Now, bullseye today will be in Texas, which at least gives these islands a break to clean up from some of this extensive damaging. I mean, look at the videos that we've been able to get of some of the tornadoes that were on the ground yesterday in parts of Iowa. This one looks like its coming out of a movie with that debris just flying. You can see the tornado ripping up those trees and then some damage is left behind in this area as that debris just flies around again, like out of a movie.
 
We have at least 20 tornado reports this morning. A lot of damage to survey through as we go through the afternoon today. Here's that risk as we go into the afternoon, can see that bulls-eye for parts of Texas, including Dallas, had it up towards Little Rock and that orange enhance level three out of five, that's where we could find very large hail damaging with an a couple of more tornadoes. 
 
That tornado risk really holding itself to the south today from San Angela to Dallas, over towards Shreveport. We could also find some hale up to the size of tennis balls as we go through the day today. 
 
So storms really night late afternoon and evening once they're fired up by some of that day daytime heat, you can see some of those little discrete sounds that's where we can find some of that tornado activity if the cell is kind of come into a line. That's where you get a push of damaging winds.
 
We'll continue to find in this threat as we go through the day today. But again, at least some relief, some drier air moving into Iowa today -- Kasie. 
 <br>[05:25:04]
 
HUNT:  All right. Elisa Raffa for us with that report -- Elisa, thank you very much. 
 
All right, 24 minutes past the hour, here's you're morning roundup.
 
The Louisiana state house passing a bill that would classify abortion drugs like mifepristone as schedule 4 drug, which essentially means they consider it a dangerous controlled substance, putting it in the same category as narcotics, and depressants. 
 
The U.S. says, none of the aid unloaded from a temporary pier off the coast of Gaza has been delivered. Several trucks were intercepted over the weekend and the U.N. has now suspended deliveries until safe routes can be established.
 
CNN projecting the two key players in Georgia's election interference case against Donald Trump will win their respective races. The Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis will easily move on to the November general election, while Fulton County superior judge -- Superior Court Judge Scott McAfee, who is overseeing the case, will keep his seat on the bench.
 
All right. Up next here, drama in Boston. The Celtics takes needed over time to save their home-court advantage in the Eastern Conference finals.
 
Plus, the defense rests without Donald Trump taking the stand. We'll break down the case made by his legal team.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:30:00]