Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Harris: Appears Trump Is "Backpedaling" On Debate; GOP, Dems Battle Over Rust Belt Swing States; French Train System Attacked Ahead of Olympic Opening Ceremony. Aired 5:30-6a ET

Aired July 26, 2024 - 05:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:30:00]
 
DEREK VAN DAM, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  -- ceremonies of the Olympics. Right now, there are some rainy showers moving through Paris. We are hopeful though that this will move on and we hopefully have a dry opening ceremony that will occur later this evening local time. The forecast shows more wet weather into tomorrow, but then warming up by Sunday and Monday of next week.
 
Kasie, I spoke to the forecasters responsible for keeping spectators and athletes safe from severe weather, Meteo-France. They advise the International Olympic Committee on severe weather. And they said that conditions for the opening ceremony are not ideal. 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  Not ideal.
 
VAN DAM:  That's right.
 
HUNT:  That is too bad.
 
VAN DAM:  Yes (INAUDIBLE).
 
HUNT:  All right, Derek Van Dam for us this morning. Derek, thank you so much.
 
VAN DAM:  All right.
 
HUNT:  All right. Coming up next here, Kamala Harris accusing Donald Trump of backpedaling when it comes to debating here.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:35:18]
 
HUNT:  Five thirty-four a.m. here in Washington, D.C. A live look at the Capitol dome on this Friday morning. Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us.
 
Donald Trump and Kamala Harris at odds over the possibility of a presidential debate between the two of them. Harris arguing Trump has already agreed to a debate in September.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Many of you have been asking me about the debate, and I'll tell you I'm ready to debate Donald Trump. I have agreed to the previously agreed upon September 10 debate. He agreed to that previously and now it appears he's backpedaling. But I'm ready and I think the voters deserve to see the split screen that exists in this race on a debate stage. And so, I'm ready. Let's go.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Trump apparently not quite ready to go. Here's what he said about debating Harris earlier this week.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Well, I haven't agreed to anything. I agreed to a debate with Joe Biden.
 
REPORTER:  If Kamala Harris does end up being the Democrats' nominee, will you commit to debating her at least one time?
 
TRUMP:  Oh, yes, absolutely. I would be willing to do more than one debate actually.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Hmm, slightly contradictory messages there.
 
OK. Last night, Trump's campaign issued this statement. "The general election debate details cannot be finalized until Democrats formally decide on their nominee. It would be inappropriate to schedule things with Harris because Democrats very well could still change their minds."
 
Joining us now, Akayla Gardner, White House correspondent for Bloomberg News. And Sabrina Rodriguez. She's national political reporter for The Washington Post. Welcome to both of you. Wonderful to have you.
 
Akayla, it does seem like we are likely to see a debate between these two people. Clearly, they were willing to agree to a presumptive nominee. I mean, they debated -- Donald Trump already debated the presumptive nominee, right?
 
AKAYLA GARDNER, WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT, BLOOMBERG NEWS:  Yeah.
 
HUNT:  Joe Biden hadn't been formally nominated in June when his disastrous debate performance unfolded. In many ways, they got what they wanted, like, several months earlier, right? And now they do have to deal with this new situation. 
 
What is your sense of how this unfolds? What's the next turn of the screw?
 
GARDNER:  Yeah. I think absolutely, they're going to agree to a debate. I think they're both eager to do that. But really, the strategy we're seeing here from the Trump campaign is something that they did already with the vice presidential debate. They tried to leave the door open that Vice President Harris wouldn't be the nominee. Of course, that aged well and that is exactly what happened. 
 
It has much less steam now that it's pretty clear that she has the delegates. She has the support. She has major endorsements from pretty much every party leader and she's doing to pretty easily slide into that spot. 
 
So I think, really, the question is how are they going to pivot? They have built their career -- or they have built this campaign off of defeating Joe Biden who was very unpopular. Who was -- obviously, had many concerns about his age. Harris is almost the opposite of that. 
 
And so they're really trying to come up with new attack lines. They're trying to attack here on the border, calling her a weak prosecutor. So I'm really interested to see how they sort of crystalize the message that could work in a debate, potentially.
 
HUNT:  Yeah. 
 
Sabrina, the last time we saw Donald Trump debate a woman -- and I should -- I should actually -- we should -- our producer should bring up that where he kind of stalked Hillary Clinton around the stage at one point. 
 
The optics of this are going to be very different if they unfold than they would be between Trump and Biden. 
 
What has your reporting been about how Democrats are preparing for this -- viewing this in terms of the opportunity it might present?
 
SABRINA RODRIGUEZ, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, THE WASHINGTON POST: Well, I mean, this is something that we see Vice President Harris absolutely welcome. Like, this is -- for her, she is excited to debate him because of those optics. 
 
Like, this is something she has dealt with not just as vice president but throughout her entire career. I mean, the levels of sexism and racism that we're seeing in a lot of the attacks. I mean, we can expect to see that in a debate between here and Donald Trump. 
 
So, really, they're sort of welcoming that. I mean, we've seen just this week on, like, the conversation around, like, childless cat ladies and, like, how there's just been this rallying around women for Kamala Harris. 
 
HUNT:  Here it is.
 
RODRIGUEZ:  So they know that that's the setup.
 
HUNT:  This is -- the is the video. So this -- let's full-screen this. So this is -- this is what happened when they did a town hall debate, right? Hillary Clinton in 2016. And Donald Trump essentially standing behind here looming over her shoulder. Keep in mind he could have been seated on -- if I recall correctly there were stools available for the candidates. But even the camera -- the man shooting this -- whoever, man or woman, shooting this -- the frame is kind of trying to figure out what to do. 
 
Akayla, I mean, this is the kind of imagery that I think is part of why you are seeing such -- so much -- sort of a galvanizing of women because I think everybody remembers how this went down in 2016.
 
GARDNER:  Yeah. I think this could backfire very easily. We've heard Speaker Mike Johnson pretty much telling his party do not focus attacks on gender and race. 
 <br>[05:40:03]
 
They are pretty much walking into their own trap here. Kamala Harris does not have to fight back against those things. Those are obviously very bigotry -- or there's just obviously a lot of distaste there in those attacks.
 
But I think at the end of the day, Harris has strong debate skills. She is going to perform well regardless. And I think Trump is really going to have to pivot because Biden obviously did not have those same skills.
 
HUNT:  There -- the White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre addressed this from -- what Akayla was talking about -- from the podium on Thursday. Let's just look at how she talked about the -- some of the attacks that have been coming off Capitol Hill against Kamala Harris.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY:  When you have the lead -- the Speaker of the House set up a meeting to tell Republican leaders to stop being racist, to stop being misogynist, to stop being sexist, I think that says a lot. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  And, in fact -- I mean, I've talked to a number of Republicans, Sabrina, who say this is not the way to do this. This is a -- this is a risk. That doesn't mean that they're able to control the House Republican Conference.
 
How much of a risk is this for Republicans to go down these roads?
 
RODRIGUEZ:  I mean, it's a huge risk at this point. And really, when you look at it -- I mean, it doesn't take very much to see what the lines of attack that are effective could be. I mean, if they focus on policy and they focus on what people perceive to be failures from the Biden administration -- I mean, that makes sense. 
 
But when we're talking about racism and sexism coming from the Republican Party, is it necessarily surprising to see those attacks? No. But to Akayla's point -- I mean, it's like they're falling into their own trap when we know that this is not going to be the most effective thing as we lead to -- as you're trying to really court those center and moderate voters heading into the election.
 
Sure, you want to amp up the Republican base. That's a different story. But if we're talking about heading to a general election -- this is not a primary. This is a general and you need to figure out what is going to motivate those people in the middle.
 
HUNT:  All right, Akayla Gardner, Sabrina Rodriguez. Thank you both very much for being here. I really appreciate it.
 
All right. Coming up next here on CNN THIS MORNING, Kamala Harris held her first rally as a presidential candidate in Wisconsin, but can she hold on to the Rust Belt states that Joe Biden won in 2024? We're going to discuss that ahead.
 
Plus, opening ceremonies at the Olympics will go on as planned tonight in Paris despite a big attack -- a massive attack ended up paralyzing the city's high-speed rail lines. We've just learned that arson may have been involved.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:46:41]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Well, the blue wall is very important, no doubt, to Democrats.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In that blue wall set of states.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That were part of what I once called the blue wall.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  So if someone from the blue wall -- Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  For those closely following our presidential race, you may be familiar with the so-called blue wall. That, of course, refers to a handful of states -- Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin -- that up until Trump's 2016 victory had helped Democrats win elections for decades. After that race, the broader Rust Belt region has emerged as a crucial, highly competitive battleground with both parties campaigning heavily there. 
 
If you watched the Republican National Convention last week, the vice presidential nominee J.D. Vance was not exactly subtle about his pursuit of votes in those states.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), U.S. VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  O-H-I-O. You guys, we've got to chill with the Ohio love. We've got to win Michigan, too, here. So --
 
It's about the autoworker in Michigan. It's about the factory worker in Wisconsin. It's about the energy worker in Pennsylvania and Ohio.
 
It's the factories of Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin. All the forgotten communities in Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Ohio and every corner of our nation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  I just will offer you an obligatory Go, Blue! Beat Ohio!
 
All right, let's move on. Joining me now to discuss, Paul Kendrick. He's executive director of Rust Belt Rising, a Democratic group that aims to reconnect the party to working families in the region. Paul, good morning. It's wonderful to have you.
 
PAUL KENDRICK, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, RUST BELT RISING, FORMER ADVISER, OBAMA WHITE House, REGIONAL DIRECTOR, GOV. PRITZKER'S 2018 CAMPAIGN (via Webex by Cisco):  Thank you so much for having me on. Good morning.
 
HUNT:  So, Paul, your organization does a lot of research polling, kind of digging into what exactly is going to move the needle in these critical Rust Belt states. And I know you've been kind of starting to get a sense of what the change from Joe Biden to Kamala Harris means for Democrats in the region.
 
What are the opportunities for her and the potential vulnerabilities?
 
KENDRICK:  Yeah. We find her running about two points stronger than President Biden was because she is able to pull in some of those Independents and those who are thinking about voting third party, particularly young people that Democrats really need. 
 
And our research suggests that Trump may have a ceiling, kind of, in the mid to upper 40s. And as she goes out there and is able to talk about freedom, and families, and future, she may be able to get that anti-MAGA majority back together that gets over 50 percent.
 
HUNT:  Paul, what do you see among Black voters, in particular? Because we'd seen a number of Trump surrogates go to Detroit to try to court Black men, for example. They really saw that as an opportunity. Does Harris eat into that or kind of prevent that switchover?
 
KENDRICK:  Yeah, absolutely. We're already seeing real jumps in enthusiasm. 
 
I was talking to a leader in Benton Harbor, Michigan just yesterday and he was saying everyone's coming out of the woodwork. People are really excited to get out there -- share personal experiences, share stories to talk about different economic issues and the solutions. And how Vice President Harris really cares about and is focused on the things that families need to get ahead and has a real vision for our future to go forward.
 <br>[05:50:03]
 
And so, we really do think that any advantage that Trump was aiming for, we can strongly counteract, and that Vice President Harris is going to have that kind of Obamaesque turnout that will help us be able to win these blue wall states. 
 
HUNT:  Paul, if she has work to do, where is it?
 
KENDRICK:  Um -- well, I think Biden -- President Biden did have some strong residual trust with elders. And one thing we found in our research is that 60 percent -- almost 60 percent of our Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania voters found good and true that Democrats won Medicare being able to negotiate prescription drug prices to bring those costs of our medicines down. 
 
I know canvassers who are just sharing their personal experience. I can't believe how much money I'm able to save on anti-cancer medication, hearing aids, inhalers, insulin.
 
And so I think being able to talk about that and protecting Social Security and protecting health care, and always just talking about our values, and our stories, and our personal experiences I think will help really hold on to some of the older voters. But we're already seeing real increases in the younger voters who we really needed based on what we've been seeing for the past year or two.
 
HUNT:  Interesting. I guess, always that tension between older voters who show up reliably. Younger voters you've got to pull into the process for the first time. Interesting she's got some work to do with those communities.
 
Paul, very grateful to have you and your insights this morning. I hope you'll come back. Thank you so much.
 
KENDRICK:  Thank you.
 
HUNT:  All right, time now for sports.
 
We are just hours away from the Olympic opening ceremony in Paris, but the day is off to a rocky start.
 
Andy Scholes has this morning's Bleacher Report. Andy, good morning.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Yeah, good morning, Kasie.
 
So the opening ceremony -- for the first time ever, it's not in a stadium. It's outside on the River Siene. And it's rainy there in Paris today. There's about a 70 percent chance it's going to be raining when the opening ceremony starts at 1:00 Eastern.
 
And on top of that, French officials say the country's train lines were targeted by multiple malicious acts in what has been described as coordinated sabotage to disrupt travel ahead of the opening ceremony. The railway company in France posted on X, telling travelers who can to postpone their trip and not go to the station. Paris' police chief says they are stepping up security at stations around the city.
 
Olympic organizers were supposed to hold an opening ceremony press conference this morning, but it was canceled. All right, women's world number two tennis player Coco Gauff is set to
 
 make her Olympic debut in Paris. And if that's not cool enough, she's going to be carrying the flag for the USA in today's opening ceremony alongside LeBron James. 
 
And CNN's Coy Wire spoke with the 20-year-old about how she's processing it all.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
COCO GAUFF, TEAM USA FLAG BEARER:  Once I got told that I was going to be flag bearer -- obviously, you can see my reaction. I was just shocked and I didn't really know what to say. I think a lot of people are laughing at me, saying oh, because I really didn't know what to say. 
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah. And then what -- and then what happened? What type of emotions were you feeling when it started to sink in what had just happened?
 
GAUFF:  Um, it took a while for it to sink in. I still haven't really sunk -- like, sunken in. I mean, so many people are coming up to say congratulations not just from Team USA but from other sports and countries as well. So I don't it -- I don't think it will until maybe, honestly, like a year from now or something because I think it's just going to be one of those things that you're, like, I can't believe I just did that type thing. 
 
WIRE:  Yeah. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES:  All right. Now, the games are already underway and the U.S. women's soccer team off to a good start. Trinity Rodman here -- an incredible spin move in the 17th minute to bury the opening goal for Team USA against Zambia. Mallory Swanson then scored two goals in just over a minute's time. 
 
The U.S. was up 3-0 at the half and would go on to win by that score. Next up for the team is going to be Germany on Sunday.
 
Another update from 'Dronegate.' Canada Soccer has sent home their head coach Bever Priestman as the investigation continues into the team illegally spying on their opponents with drones. Monday, a Canada staff member was caught using a drone to spy on New Zealand's practice. That staff member and an assistant were sent home Wednesday. Well, after further investigation, Priestman has now also been sent home.
 
Canadian broadcaster TSN claims the team has been engaged for years in efforts to film the closed-door training sessions of their opponents, including during the women's gold medal-winning Olympic tournament back in 2021. Now, CNN has not independently confirmed the TSN report. 
 
Canada beat New Zealand yesterday 2-1. All right. And finally, Padres' pitcher Dylan Cease threw the second no-hitter in franchise history yesterday in a 3-0 win over the Nationals in D.C. The 28-year-old struck out nine and walked three batters. Cease had to convince Padres' manager Mike Shildt to let him go back out there for the ninth. He ended up throwing 114 pitches, one over his season high.
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
But, Kasie, I know you're a baseball fan. This may have been the greatest three-game stretch a pitcher has ever had by Dylan Cease. Twenty-two innings, two hits, 30 strikeouts over his last three games. Prett incredible stuff.
 
HUNT:  That's amazing.
 
SCHOLES:  Yeah.
 
HUNT:  That is just amazing. Congratulations to him. Always fun to see no matter who it is.
 
Andy, thank you so much.
 
SCHOLES:  All right.
 
HUNT:  I really appreciate it.
 
All right. Coming up here on CNN THIS MORNING --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  Michelle, Barack, this means so much to me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Kamala Harris with a major endorsement this morning. 
 
Plus, the presumptive Democratic nominee calling for a ceasefire in Gaza after a critical meeting with Israeli -- the Israeli prime minister.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 
HUNT:  It's Friday, July 26. Right now on CNN THIS MORNING --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Michelle and I couldn't be prouder to endorse you and to everything we can to get you through this election and into the Oval Office.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Kamala Harris taking a big phone call and getting that big endorsement from former President Obama this morning.