Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden And Trump Win Michigan Primaries; Haley Vows To Stay In Republican Race Through Super Tuesday; Israel, Hamas Caution Against Biden's Ceasefire Optimism; Junta Imposes Mandatory Military Conscription; Volcano in Mexico Spews Ash, Forces Flight Cancelations; Out-of-control Wildfires Threaten Texas Towns; Warm Winter in Italy Leaves Ski Resorts With No Snow; Prince William Pulls Out of Event Due to Personal Matter. Aired 2-2:45a ET

Aired February 28, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:01]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead, Joe Biden and Donald Trump take home wins in the Michigan primaries. But despite those victories, the results could signal serious concerns for both campaigns.
 
CNN returns to Bucha, Ukraine two years after Vladimir Putin's army committed brutal atrocities during their month-long occupation. And the climate crisis is hammering some ski resorts in Italy, as warmer than normal temperatures turn the usually snowy landscape into a muddy wasteland.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemarie Church.
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. For the first time in this year's U.S. presidential race, a primary in a major battleground state that could determine who wins the November election. This latest vote could reflect the U.S. president strength on the national stage and serve as a litmus test of his refusal to call for a ceasefire in Gaza. President Biden won the Democratic primary handily.
 
But what's key here is the protest vote roughly 13 percent of voters who tick the uncommitted box. Those are the critics determined to send a message to the Biden campaign about the consequences of his stance on a conflict increasingly referred to as a genocide. President Biden did not mention them in the statement he released two hours ago thanking Michigan voters. On the Republican side Donald Trump is celebrating a win over his last Republican challengers standing Nikki Haley.
 
We are seeing about a 42-point margin of victory. Looking ahead to the general election, Trump said we win Michigan we win the whole thing that Haley told CNN's Dana Bash She's staying in the Republican race and looking forward to Super Tuesday. Now just one week away.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We've only seen a handful of states vote. I mean, look, I've said this before, as much as the media wants to jump ahead, we're taking this one state one day at a time. That's what this is about. America is blessed to be a democracy. Let people vote. Now in the next week, we're going to watch 20 states and territories vote. Let's let that happen.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: A closer look now at what these results mean for President Biden. CNN's Jeff Zeleny reports from Dearborn.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: President Joe Biden easily winning the Michigan primary on Tuesday, but not dispatching with his biggest opposition. And that is the protest vote to his handling of Israel's war in Gaza. Here in Michigan, which is the heart of the Arab American population center in the U.S. as well as the Muslim-American population center here in Dearborn.
 
There was a significant protest vote because of how the President has handled this war. They have been calling for the President to demand a ceasefire that has not happened. So, there was an uncommitted movement that reached out over the last three weeks or so that urged Michigan voters to check uncommitted on the ballot. Now, tens of thousands of Michigan voters did just that.
 
Of course, many, many more voted for President Biden, but the question is, with Michigan being such a competitive battleground, given the fact that Donald Trump also won easily on Tuesday night. Where does this go moving forward? Now, Michigan leaders vowed to take this to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, saying that will take the anti-war movement to the streets.
 
There is no doubt that is going to be one of the soundtracks of this presidential campaign, the president's handling of Israel's war in Gaza. Michigan, of course, is so critical on the road to the White House. The President can barely spare any votes here. He's already down in the polls. So, the question going out of this, is there a policy change that can win back some of these voters? The voters we talked to said that they were simply doing that registering a protest vote, they're hoping the White House listens.
 
So as this policy evolves as the situation on the ground there evolves, this dynamic could certainly change but it is a victory for President Biden, but certainly a sign of complications and vulnerabilities to come.
 
Jeff Zeleny, CNN. Dearborn, Michigan.
 
CHURCH: Thomas Gift joins us now from London. He is the director of the Center on U.S. Politics at University College London. Thank you so much for being with us.
 
THOMAS GIFT, DIRECTOR, THE CENTER ON U.S. POLITICS: Good morning, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: So not surprisingly, both Joe Biden and Donald Trump each convincingly won their party's primary races in Michigan but nearly 13 percent of the vote is uncommitted in the Democratic primary race representing a protest vote against the war in Gaza and the President's support for Israel. How significant is that? And what could it potentially mean for the general election, do you think?
 <br>[02:05:01]
 
GIFT: Well, any protest vote is a sign of disaffection but I do think it's important to keep in mind the baseline. In each of the last three Democratic presidential primaries there's been an uncommitted vote that's exceeded 20,000. So, the Listen to Michigan campaign in setting its goal at 10,000 was already establishing kind of an artificially low bar. 48,000, which is the most recent number I've seen who voted uncommitted is non-trivial certainly.
 
But Biden did win the state in 2020 by about 154,000. Plus, the actual percentage of uncommitted this year actually equals out to about the same who voted uncommitted in 2012, even though the numbers look inflated because overall, turnout is higher. I think a certain fraction of uncommitted vote will also turn out for Biden in November. This is just symbolism. So, I do think that these defections are concerned for Biden, but Biden's prospects in Michigan and similar states, I believe, are going to hinge much more on wider demographics.
 
CHURCH: So how might the Biden administration respond to this uncommitted vote? And would they view it as a threat at all to Joe Biden's election campaign, given what Donald Trump plans to do when it comes to Israel and its war in Gaza?
 
GIFT: Well, Michigan certainly matters, in this protest, votes certainly matters. I think the electoral map for Biden, and Trump for that matter becomes very difficult if they lose it, you know, but there's such a focus on this uncommitted vote which is understandable. I think, for the most part, it is -- I don't want to call it tangential. But it's not the main issue here. I think the main issue of who wins Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Ohio, Michigan, comes down to who appeals to large pivotal constituencies.
 
Blue collar workers, suburban women, et cetera. That's where general elections are won and lost. And so, I do think that the Biden administration and Trump's campaign at the same time has to keep their eye on the ball here, and they need to focus on sort of what is most likely to drive the boat.
 
CHURCH: And Donald Trump won his Michigan primary race gaining about 68 percent of the vote so far. But Nikki Haley still garnered nearly 27 percent support. What might that signal for a general election given Trump can't seem to get that larger majority of Republican voters on his side, can he?
 
GIFT: Well, I still think that the question is, when not if Haley is going to drop out. At some point she's going to have to face the reality that this is a coronation, not a primary, always has been. There is a certain fraction of Republicans who are turned off by Trump as their nominee. And for them, Haley is almost a protest vote of their own. But it's not enough to make this race competitive and momentum is likely to push some of Trumps vote totals even higher in Super Tuesday states where the composition of the voting base is much more MAGA.
 
Haley's clearly hoping that Trump's legal challenges will catch up to him. Now, this is a concern for Trump. We saw it in South Carolina as well, that there's a certain fraction that is just hauled out. But by and large, you know, that that vote probably is unattainable. Anyway, they either decided that they're going to vote Democrat stay home, or maybe (INAUDIBLE) 
 
CHURCH: And Haley is insisting that she will stay in the race until Super Tuesday on March 5th. Will that inevitably represent the end of the road for her and what has she achieved by staying in the race for so long?
 
GIFT: Well, I think that it is going to be the end of the road for her. I mean, I think that the end of the road for her practically was in Iowa and certainly in New Hampshire. Some of these early primary states were juiced for Haley. There was any place where she was going to do well. It was -- gates where there's a strong independent streak and then in South Carolina where it was her home state.
 
But, you know, she's put up a fight for Donald Trump. I think a lot of people, especially Democrats are going to respect that. But at the end of the day, I'm not sure how much she has achieved except -- in so far, she's proven that there never was sort of a sizable anti-Trump vote in the Republican Party. There was always this theory that voters wanted the Trump like that they wanted Trump without the drama.
 
I think that they wanted Trump specifically and they wanted Trump Ultra. None of that's changed. So, we're headed toward Joe Biden versus Donald Trump rematch. Not many Americans are enthusiastic about it. But that's the reality.
 
CHURCH: Thomas Gift in London. Many thanks for joining us. Appreciate it.
 
GIFT: Thanks.
 
CHURCH: In the Middle East, talks are still underway for a hostage for ceasefire deal in Gaza. Officials from Israel, Hamas and Qatar are cautioning against President Biden's optimism that an agreement can be reached by the end of this week. They suggest differences remain as negotiators work to secure a deal. Qatar, a key mediator in the ongoing talks remains hopeful that a final agreement can be reached before the Islamic holy month of Ramadan begins in less than two weeks, but warns there is no breakthrough yet.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAJED AL-ANSARI, QATAR FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: If there was an agreement, you'd see me here in a more chill attitude but until now we don't have an agreement.
 <br>[02:10:07]
 
Yes, and we are still working on the negotiations on all fronts.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Meantime, Reuters and Al Jazeera are reporting that Hamas is reviewing a draft proposal for an initial ceasefire lasting around six weeks, during which 40 Israeli hostages will be exchanged for 400 Palestinian prisoners. A spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces is promising to protect civilians if it expands its military operation in Rafah. The city in southern Gaza is now home to about 1-1/2 million people including many who fled their homes in the north.
 
Israel has said it plans to extend its military campaign in Rafah if its hostages are not returned by Ramadan which as we mentioned begins around March 10th. The IDF says it's discussing its plans with Egypt and the U.S.
 
Well, as the war grinds on the situation is becoming worse by the day for the 2.2 million people of Gaza. The World Food Programme is warning of a real prospect of famine by May, with half a million people at risk. The group says Gaza is experiencing the worst level of child malnutrition anywhere in the world.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAMESH RAJASINGHAM, OCHA DIRECTOR OF COORDINATION: Here we are at the end of February, with at least 576,000 people in Gaza, one quarter of the population, one step away from famine, but one in six children under two years of age in northern Gaza suffering from acute malnutrition and wasting. And practically the entire population cause left rely on woefully inadequate. She mentioned food assistance to survive.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The U.S. Agency for International Development is pledging $53 million in new assistance. But Director Samantha Power says bureaucratic bottlenecks and inspection delays must be resolved. Some aid is getting into Gaza delivered by air for the second consecutive day from Jordan. State media reports six C 130 aircraft plus planes from Egypt, Qatar, the UAE and France took off from Amman on Tuesday.
 
Well, for more, let's go to journalist Elliott Gotkine. He joins us live from London. Good morning to you, Elliot. So, what more are you learning about the situation in Gaza with the IDF saying civilians will be protected if military operations are expanded into Rafah on the south?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rosemary this has been Israel's position ever since it started talking about the prospects of a ground operation in Rafah. Now Israel says it has to go into Rafah for the simple reason that it has to achieve its war objective of destroying Hamas. Hamas has four battalions it says in Rafah and in order to prevent Hamas from visiting another terrorist attack on the scale of October the 7th as it has said that it would.
 
Israel must therefore go into Rafah and destroy and degrade Hamas' military capabilities there. Now at the same time as talking about this ground operation. Israel has said that it will evacuate the civilians there. All 1-1/2 million of them. It has said that it was going to do so once the plan was submitted. Now the IDF has submitted its plan to the Israeli government now. So, it's all really just a question of I suppose implementing that plan.
 
But of course, the United States as you've been saying, has insisted that Rafah operation must not go ahead until it has seen that there is a plan in place that would provide the necessary safety and also shelter for all of those Palestinians. Daniel Hagari, the chief international spokesman for the IDF saying that they would evacuate them to an area where all of their needs, such as food aid, hospitals and medication would be provided for.
 
Now, he also said as you mentioned, Rosemary, that Israel has been in discussions with Egypt and the United States. The Egyptian side particularly sensitive because of the concern that if Israel does go into Rafah that that could displace some Palestinians over the border into Egypt. Something that the Egyptians are adamant must not happen. But certainly, Daniel Hagari speaking with CNN saying that the conditions need to be right in order for that evacuation to take place.
 
And he said that we will make sure those conditions occur if we act but ultimately it will be for the Israeli government to decide if and when that ground operation goes ahead. And of course, at the same time, these hostage for ceasefire negotiations are continuing. And the hope is that they will come in place before such an operation, a grand operation in Russia is due to get underway with then the hope being that during that truce.
 
And we're talking about a 40-day truce seems to be the one that's being discussed right now. During that truce, there could then be additional discussions to talk about a potential end to this war between Israel and Hamas. Rosemary?
 <br>[02:15:04]
 
CHURCH: Elliot Gotkine joining us live from London. Many thanks. Ukrainian forces have withdrawn from two villages near the eastern town of Avdiivka captured by Russia more than a week ago. A Ukrainian official claims Russia suffered heavy losses, but also suggested the Russian advance is not slowing down and there are assault groups are growing in size. Despite its withdrawal, Ukraine says the defensive line has been stabilized in an area west of Avdiivka where Russian forces have been pushed back.
 
To the south in Kherson region, Ukraine says forces have blown up and office of Vladimir Putin's United Russia party in the occupied city of Nova Kakhovka. The National Resistance Center run by Ukraine Special Forces says the attack was meant to stop the fake election process ahead of Russia's presidential vote next month. People in Bucha, Ukraine are remembering the lives lost during Russia's brutal occupation two years ago. The Kyiv suburb was the scene of horrific atrocities early in the war, which Ukraine has long argued amount to war crimes. CNN's Christiane Amanpour visited Bucha on the anniversary of the invasion. And a warning her report contains graphic images.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (voiceover): Father Andriy Halavin, of St. Andrew's church, walks me through Bucha's grisly place in history. Hundreds were brutally killed here during Russia's month-long occupation, including women, children, the elderly.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ninety-nine years old.
 
AMANPOUR: Oh my god, 1923 to 2022
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: Ninety-nine years old and a child of two years old.
 
AMANPOUR (voice-over): These people died not during the fighting, but during the occupation says Father Andriy, when the Russian world came here, and this is its face, these are corpses. These are rape people. This is every apartment and house looted. This is the face of the Russian world.
 
Father Andriy became known after the Russians were pushed back for revealing the side of a mass grave just here on his church grounds, filled with 160 people.
 
He shows me the original posting about it on Facebook, March 12th, 2022, when Russian forces were still occupying Bucha. And from this memorial, you can see that red house, most of the family was killed as they tried to flee. When the Russians turned a heavy machine gun on their car.
 
It still haunts and horrifies the grandmother, Valentyna Chekmarova.
 
It's very hard for me to remember this, two years have passed, and it seems like it happened today, she says. I saw them off to get out of this hell, but they didn't. They were shocked.
 
This is the fate they were trying to escape. The main street, Yablunska, in this residential Kyiv suburb, strewn with bodies, all clearly civilians. The discovery of basement torture and execution centers. People forced to kneel and lie with hands tied behind their backs, women and girls raped.
 
TETIANA USTYMENKO, RESIDENT OF BUCHA (through translator): How could this happen? How could this happen?
 
AMANPOUR (on camera): Standing in Yablunska Street today, feels a little like standing in a graveyard. It's where the horrors of the Russian invasion were first exposed. And it remains a field of evidence, a memorial and a pilgrimage site.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): We believe that these are war crimes, and this all would be recognized as a genocide by the world.
 
AMANPOUR (voiceover): President Zelenskyy came here, April 4th, 2022, right after his forces drove the Russians out. And he brings all his international visitors and world leaders to Bucha to remind the world just what they're fighting against.
 
Moscow has claimed without evidence that this was all staged and was a planned media campaign. Ruslan Kravchenko was the war crimes prosecutor. He is now governor of the Kyiv region.
 
Do you remember when the Russians said it was fake and the bodies were fake? And that the Ukrainians had killed people themselves? He asked me. When we seize the phones, we proved to the whole world that it was the Russians who killed people -- Ukrainians.
 
Ruslan says the war crimes investigations continue, using a trove of evidence from multiple cameras, phones, and other recordings. But when they inform the Russian soldiers, they identify, they don't cooperate.
 
And Father Andriy tells us the awful truth is, that bodies are still being discovered today. Two years on.
 <br>[02:20:06]
 
From time to time, we find someone by accident, he says. The Russians had hidden their bodies somewhere and we find them.
 
So, unfortunately, the number of people who died is increasing.
 
Christiane Amanpour, CNN, Bucha. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Still to come. Iran will hold parliamentary elections on Friday amid regional tensions over the Israel Hamas war. We'll take a look at what people in the country are saying about the upcoming vote. Back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. The U.S. and U.K. have issued new sanctions targeting "Houthi enablers." The U.K. Foreign Office says they have named several individuals and organizations for providing financial or military support to the Houthi rebels in Yemen. That list includes the deputy commander of Iran's Revolutionary Guards. This is the second set of recent sanctions by the U.K. and the U.S. in response to Houthi attacks on commercial vessels in the Red Sea.
 
British Foreign Secretary Cameron says the U.K. and its allies will not hesitate to act on those disrupting stability in the region.
 
Meanwhile, the U.S. is also expected to significantly reduce its military presence near the Middle East. According to two defense officials, a marine rapid response force is expected to make its way back toward the U.S. in March. Although an exact timeline for the departure is still unclear. The warships were meant to deter Iranian proxies from escalating the volatile situation in the region.
 
Once the vessels leave, the U.S. will not have a warship capable of operating fighter jets in the eastern Mediterranean for the first time since October. And amid all this regional tension, Iran will be holding its parliamentary elections on Friday. The vote comes as Iran grapples with international sanctions, economic difficulties and the fallout of mass protests triggered by the 2022 custody death of masa iminium.
 
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen in in Tehran with a preview of what's at stake.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Iranian conservatives with a show of force ahead of what many say will be a key election on Friday, supporting their leadership's tough stance against both the U.S. and Israel. His sons, Hassan and Hussein dressed up in military fatigues voter Mohammed Kalantari (ph) says he wants to show the U.S. Iran's strength.
 
They know that Iran is a powder keg he says it only takes a spark to blow up the entire region. Iranian youth, me and the children are wearing these clothes to say that we are the soldiers of this country.
 
And this man says through this election we will prove that we can stand against the U.S. not only economically but militarily.
 <br>[02:25:08]
 
They are sanctioning us but this will be solved soon and then we will be a country sanctioning them. Tension between the U.S. and Iran has reached a boiling point is Washington accuses Tehran of supporting Houthis in Yemen firing missiles at cargo ships, as well as pro- Iranian militias in Iraq and Syria targeting U.S. bases there including the January 28 attack, killing three U.S. service members and wounding dozens.
 
Iran denies any involvement, but has ripped into the U.S. for Washington support of Israel and its campaign against Hamas in Gaza. At the conservative event, disdain for Israel on full display. Flags with a Star of David on the floor for people to step on. 
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): It certainly seems pretty clear how most of the people at this rally are going to vote in the upcoming parliamentary elections. But this event is really about something else. It's about getting out the vote. In fact, the supreme leader of this country has urged people to head to the ballot boxes to make sure there will be a high turnout.
 
PLEITGEN (voiceover): It's the first election since massive protests erupted in Iran in late 2022 following the death of Mahsa Amini after she was detained for violating job laws. On the streets of Tehran, get out the vote posters nearly everywhere. But with many moderate candidates barred from running, inflation high and the economy reeling from tough U.S.-led sanctions. Some say they feel unenthusiastic when we ask if they will vote.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, no.
 
PLEITGEN (voiceover): The country belongs to the people, this man says. There should be participation in the elections but it should be freer with the presence of all groups and minorities.
 
It's unclear if Iran's leaders can persuade more people to vote in an election deemed pivotal for the country's future.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Tehran.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Still ahead, young people line up to leave Myanmar now that the military government has imposed a mandatory drop. We will speak with a U.N. official about the fallout.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:03]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. It has been three years since a military junta took control from an elected civilian government in Myanmar. But they're now facing major threats from a nationwide armed resistance on several fronts across the country. So, they've turned to mandatory military conscription for all young men and women. Evading the draft is punishable by three to five years in prison and a fine. And that has led to a surge in people trying to get visas to leave the country.
 
For more, I'm joined now by Tom Andrews, the U.N. Special Rapporteur on Myanmar. Appreciate you being with us.
 
TOM ANDREWS, U.N. SPECIAL RAPPORTEUR ON MYANMAR: Thank you for having me, Rosemary. Nice to be (inaudible).
 
CHURCH: So, you have said that a weakened military government in Myanmar is becoming a greater threat to civilians as it imposes this mandatory draft and doubles down on village attacks by rebels. What do you mean by that? And what are civilians across the country dealing with on a daily basis right now?
 
ANDREWS: Well, Rosemary, first of all, and so, this is a (inaudible) move on their (inaudible) they have had their troops depleted, approximately 106,000 (ph) the point of the coup (inaudible) under 100,000 now. So they feel desperate. This is something that they have to do, but they are deeply (inaudible) doing are either, as you mentioned, (inaudible). CHURCH: All right. We are going to have to leave it there just for a moment because, obviously, we are having some audio issues. Tom Andrews talking to me there. We will try to reconnect. Let's take a short break. There used to be lots of snow in central Italy. But now, there's a muddy mess. How the climate crisis is impacting ski resorts and in turn, the country's economy, that's next. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Mexico's most dangerous active volcano spewed ash and smoke into the sky on Tuesday, causing some flight cancellations at Mexico City's main airport. Ash was reported as far as 45 miles or more than 70 kilometers away. Authorities say there's currently no risk for the people living in the area. The volcano sits in central Mexico and has erupted several times in recent years.
 
A disaster declaration has been issued for 60 counties in Texas where at least three massive wildfires are burning out of control. One of them called the Smokehouse Creek Fire has burned more than 120,000 hectares in less than 48 hours, already making it the fifth largest wildfire in the state's history. And it has now jumped state lines into Oklahoma as well, unseasonably hot dry conditions and powerful winds causing the flames to spread quickly. A number of communities are under evacuation alerts. Some people have lost their homes though it is unclear just how many.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
CHURCH: The climate crisis is causing a meltdown for the economy in central Italy. The above average temperatures this winter has left ski resorts with no snow on the ground. CNN's Barbie Nadeau explains how that's impacting tourism.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): These mountains in central Italy used to be a favorite spot for local skiers. Now, the area looks more like a barren, muddy wasteland. 
 
NADEAU: February is supposed to be the biggest and busiest month here at Campo Felice ski resort in the Apennine Mountains in central Italy, not this year. As you see behind me, all of these mountains that are brown are supposed to be covered with snow. This year, instead, there just hasn't been the snow. The only snow you see here was made with artificial snow machines.
 
NADEAU (voice-over): The human-caused climate crisis has resulted in snow loss across the northern hemisphere. Here, more than 4,400 feet above sea level, where snow is disappearing fast, people are questioning how much longer skiing can go on. This year, the influence of El Nino means temperatures have been even higher than usual.
 
Normally, on a Sunday in February, you'd have 6,000 people skiing on these slopes. This year, only four of the 14th slopes were open. Of the 250 people who work here normally, only 50 have been able to keep their jobs, because the season has been so mild and short. This ski resort has been in Andrea Lallini's family for 23 years. First, his father and now, he and his brother, Luca, run it. He says the seasons have been getting shorter over the years. He tells us the problem is lack of precipitation, plus it has never gotten cold. This year, winter barely even arrived he says.
 
They tell us that in the 1980s and 1090s, artificial snow wasn't necessary. There was plenty of the natural stuff to go around. This year, snow machines were the resort's only option. But even that is problematic because, last summer, there was very little rain and lakes like this one ran dry. There was no water to make snow and even fake snow melts if it is too warm. It's a vicious cycle he says. And non- skiers feel the impact too.
 
Gennarino Di Stefano is the mayor of Rocca di Cambio. He says the town's livelihood revolves around this ski resort and those nearby. The changing climate is having a ripple effect on the economy.
 
GENNARINO DI STEFANO, MAYOR OF ROCCA DI CAMBIO, ITALY (through translator): Every town has a good number of people who come here to work from the ski instructors, the managers of the bars, the restaurants, the people who run the ski lifts. Many people are not working.
 
NADEAU (voice-over): And for ski instructors like Isidoro Franceschi, the lack of snow and shorter season means these young competitive skiers have to go elsewhere to train.
 
ISIDORO FRANCESCHI, HEAD SKI INSTRUCTOR AT CAMPO FELICE: For those of us who have always worked in this area, it is heartbreaking to see nature spoiled like this. It isn't good.
 
NADEAU (voice-over): As skiers turn to resorts at higher elevations where there's more snow, skiing in places like this will soon be wiped out for good.
 
Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Campo Felice, Italy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: I want to go back now to the ongoing crisis in Myanmar and the junta's military conscription plan. I'm joined now by Tom Andrews, the U.N. Special Rapporteur on Myanmar. Good to have you back with us.
 
ANDREWS: Thank you, Rosemary. Let's try this again.
 
CHURCH: Yes, indeed. So, you have said that a weakened military government in Myanmar is becoming a greater threat to civilians as it imposes a mandatory draft and doubles down on village attacks by rebels. What do you mean by that? And what are the civilians across the country dealing with on a daily basis right now?
 
ANDREWS: Well, there are two ways (ph) that they're fighting back that are really hurting people. One is they're attacking villages. They've lost territory (inaudible) significant numbers of troops. What they have are powerful weapons and they've shown no reluctance whatsoever to train those weapons against (inaudible). So, people are being injured and killed by those.
 
Now, they're trying to (inaudible) through this mandatory (inaudible) and it is a major problem because they are deeply unpopular and the people are reacting very strongly against being forced into the military and (inaudible) villages and their (inaudible) friends.
 
CHURCH: All right, our thanks to Tom Andrews. Unfortunately, we are still having those audio issues, but we certainly appreciate you joining us.
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
CHURCH: Well, Britain's Prince William did not attend his godfather's memorial service Tuesday, a royal source says it was because of an unnamed personal matter. Lately, nearly every move by the highest ranking British royals have come under heavy scrutiny because of the family's highly publicized health problems. Max Foster has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: Nobody in the palaces would elaborate any further than to say that Prince William pulled out of his godfather's memorial last minute for personal reasons. He is, of course, caring for his wife, the Princess of Wales, after her operation. She's still recovering at home. We were told by a source that she is doing well, in the context of all of this.
 
King Charles also failed to go to Constantine's memorial. They were very close, but that of course is because King Charles is being treated for cancer and he isn't going to public events. Separately, I was told that Prince William pulling out of the memorial isn't connected to King Charles' illness in any way. So, those two things aren't connected, but it does come at a time of heightened concerns. There's been a series of medical scares within the royal family and people are reading into Prince William's movements more here than they normally would.
 
The messages that we are really getting from the palace is that there's no major cause of concern because Prince William pulled out of this memorial. Max Foster, CNN, London.
 
CHURCH: Many thanks for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. "World Sport" is up next. Then, I'll be back in 15 minutes with more "CNN Newsroom." Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)