Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Netanyahu Says He Plans to Move Forward with Rafah Incursion; Children Face Starvation in Gaza as Supplies Run Out; News Agencies Pull Image of Princess of Wales; U.N. Warns Haiti's Healthcare System is 'Near Collapse'; Haitians Seek Refuge in Neighboring Dominican Republic; Biden: Israel Must Be Careful of Civilian Casualties in Gaza; Chinese Communist Party Leaders Announce Their Vision for 2024; U.S. Could Ban TikTok Unless Chinese Company Divests; Japanese Filmmakers Win Big at Academy Awards. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired March 11, 2024 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[00:00:30]
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome everyone. I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company. Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM.
 
Gaza prepares for the beginning of Ramadan without a ceasefire deal as Israel says it will push into the city of Rafah. 
 
Is this a manipulated image? News agencies have pulled this photo of the Princess of Wales, fueling more speculation about her health.
 
And Oppenheimer blew away the competition at the Oscars. We'll have the highlights and best moments from the 96th Academy Awards. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Michael Holmes.
 
HOLMES: It is six in the morning across Gaza, where Palestinians are marking the start of the holy Muslim month of Ramadan under fire and with the threat of an expanded Israeli offensive looming. 
 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he plans to push ahead with a military ground incursion into Rafah, the Southern Gaza city where more than a million people have sought shelter and where they were told by Israel to go. 
 
That word coming just days after talks on a temporary ceasefire and hostage release failed to reach a deal. 
 
Israel had warned that it would launch the next phase of its war against Hamas if a deal was not reached by Ramadan, but U.S. officials say the Biden administration isn't expecting Israeli forces to imminently expand operations. 
 
Also, Israel promised to give civilians a way out before any major operation in Rafah, and that clearly has not happened yet. 
 
Meantime, Hamas says it is still open to talks with Israel, but there are, quote, "no dates yet" for negotiators to return to Egypt. All of this happening as Israel's prime minister defends his policies in Gaza after the U.S. president said Netanyahu is, quote, "hurting Israel more than helping." 
 
CNN's Scott McLean following all the developments for us from Istanbul.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: In an interview this weekend, President Joe Biden said that an Israeli invasion of Rafah would be a red line for him.
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): But he also said that he would never cut Israel off of all weapons.
 
That apparently didn't sound all that threatening to the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who insisted that an Israeli invasion of Rafah will go ahead. He said the fighting could last two months, perhaps even less than that.
 
This despite the fact that you have well over 1 million Palestinians taking refuge in the city of Rafah with, frankly, no safe places to go within the territory.
 
Netanyahu, in this interview with "Politico" and the German outlet, "Bild" also responded to Biden's public criticism when he said that Netanyahu was hurting Israel more than he was helping. 
 
Here's the Israeli prime minister's response. 
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Well, I don't know exactly what the president meant, but if you meant by that that I'm pursuing private policies against the majority of -- the wish of the majority of Israelis and that this is hurting the interests of Israel, then he's wrong on both counts. 
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): Israel had previously promised to move into Rafah on the ground if a hostage release deal wasn't made by Ramadan. 
 
Well, Ramadan is here now, and that deal has not been made. There are also no signs of any kind of a negotiating breakthrough. Hamas left Cairo, where the last rounds of talks were being held on Thursday. The Israelis were never there at all, because they say that Hamas could not provide even a list of hostages who are alive and those who are now dead. 
 
Hamas also continues to insist that no deal can be reached unless the IDF is willing to completely withdraw from Gaza and any ceasefire that's agreed to is a permanent one. A pretty tough sell for the Israelis, who again, as you heard from the prime minister, continue to insist that they will only end this war when Hamas is completely eliminated, and that means in Rafah, as well.
 
We also heard from the Hamas chief, Ismail Haniyeh, who gave a televised address on Sunday. He says that he is still open to talks, but he says that no hostages will be released --
 
MCLEAN: -- until a deal is made. 
 
Scott McLean, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HOLMES: Local leaders in Gaza are pleading for food, clean water, and other aid as Ramadan begins. They're also asking for help with repairing essential services like waste management and sanitation, which are part of infrastructure destroyed or damaged by Israel during the war. 
 <br>[00:05:07]
 
Some states are working to bypass the ground routes to deliver aid. On Sunday, the U.S. and Jordan conducting an airdrop containing the equivalent of 11,500 meals into Northern Gaza, although aid groups say that's a Band-aid for the strip's 2.2 million hungry residents. 
 
Meanwhile, Cyprus working with the U.S., the UAE, and its European partners to create a maritime corridor to deliver aid directly to Gaza. 
 
The president of Cyprus has said the first ship was due to leave Sunday. Again, aid groups say it's something but not nearly enough. Or as efficient as pressuring Israel to open more land crossings.
 
In Rafah, the mood ahead of Ramadan, unsurprisingly, is grim. Families struggling to find fresh or affordable food, as one man explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EMAD AL-NAJJAR, DISPLACED PALESTINIAN FROM NORTHERN GAZA (through translator): This year's Ramadan is different from previous years. First of all, we are far away from her loved ones, our families, relatives, and friends in the North. Everything is different. Even in the market, it's different. Things are missing. There are no Ramadan essentials. Everything is expensive and sometimes unavailable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HOLMES: Well, authorities in Gaza say at least 25 people have now died from malnutrition and dehydration since the war began, essentially starving to death, including several children. 
 
CNN's Nada Bashir shares their stories. And a warning: her report contains images that are extremely distressing. But the mothers of the children you're about to see want the world to know what is happening to them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Tiny limbs, bones protruding. The constant sound of crying from children now facing starvation in Gaza. In this overrun hospital ward, anxious mothers watch on as doctors provide whatever care they still can. But for some, there is nothing more to be done.
 
Three-year-old Mila (ph), who had been suffering from acute malnutrition, now another victim of this merciless war. 
 
"She was healthy. There was nothing wrong with her before," Mila's (ph) mother says. "Then suddenly, everything dropped. She wasn't eating anything. We had no milk, no eggs, nothing. She used to eat eggs every day before the war. But now, we have nothing." 
 
Across Gaza, too many are feeling the pain of this deepening hunger crisis. Small children, emaciated and malnourished. These were little Liazan's (ph) final moments, his tiny fingers gripped in his mother's hand. 
 
He, like Mila (ph), would not make it.
 
Others are still just barely holding on, but there is no telling how long they will survive. 
 
Standing beside Mila's (ph) body, Dr. Ahmad Sanam (ph) says, many children at this hospital are now dying due to a lack of food and oxygen supplies.
 
With limited aid getting in, many have grown desperate, searching for food wherever they can. 
 
Nine-year-old Mohammad (ph) says he walks for about a mile every day to collect water for his family.
 
"You seem sad. Why?" this journalist asks him. 
 
"Because of the war," he says.
 
It is all too much.
 
On Tuesday, U.N. experts accused Israel of intentionally starving the Palestinian people in Gaza, noting that the Israeli military is now targeting both civilians seeking aid and humanitarian convoys. 
 
Israel has denied targeting civilians and says that there is, quote, "no limit to the amount of humanitarian aid for civilians in Gaza." But the reality on the ground paints a very different picture. 
 
"There is no food, no water, no flour, cooking oil, or anything," this woman says. "Death is better than this." 
 
According to a senior U.N. official, at least a quarter of Gaza's population is now said to be just one step away from famine. 
 
With aid agencies facing overwhelming obstacles in getting the bare minimum of supplies into Gaza, and as Israel's ground offensive threatens to push further into the strip's densely populated South, time is quickly running out. 
 <br>[00:10:04]
 
While international efforts to airdrop humanitarian supplies have provided some respite, it is simply not enough. With stalling negotiations leaving little hope for an end to the suffering and hunger of the Palestinian people in Gaza. 
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Well, several major news agencies have withdrawn an image of Catherine, the Princess of Wales, and her three children, claiming the photo has been manipulated. 
 
It was released on Sunday by Kensington Palace, the first official still image of the princess since her abdominal surgery in January. It also included a message from her thanking the public for its support, while also marking Mother's Day in the U.K. 
 
Our royal correspondent, Max Foster, with more on the photo's release and what the news agencies are saying about it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT (via phone): This photo was released by Kensington Palace. They told us it was taken by Prince William in the past week of his wife and three children. 
 
And we've got the first words from Kate, as well, since she'd had her operation. Obviously, she's been out of action for several weeks. She thanked people for their well wishes in her recovery. 
 
It was a big moment, because we haven't seen an official picture of her. There was a grainy paparazzi picture the other day of her in a car. But this was, you know, a concerted effort by the palace to really emphasize their message that she's been doing well, which is the sort of briefing that I've been getting in recent weeks. 
 
But then we hear from the major picture agencies that they are withdrawing it and telling clients not to use it, because they think it might have been manipulated. So touched up, perhaps, in several places.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: All the questions surrounding the photo have prompted, of course, a lot of speculation, particularly on social media. It's all over Twitter. 
 
Earlier we spoke with royal biographer and author Sally Bedell Smith about the controversy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) SALLY BEDELL SMITH, ROYAL BIOGRAPHER AND AUTHOR: I think there's a lot. There are a lot of questions that need to be answered. And I think right now, given this unintended consequence, how well- intentioned it was, which it clearly was. And I think they have they have -- you know, they have said that they do not doubt the validity of the -- you know, this is an image of the Princess of Wales with her children. It's just that certain aspects of it seem to have been manipulated. 
 
But I think the agencies need to be more clear on what they mean by doctored and manipulated. I mean, look, every formal portrait that is issued to the press has been tweaked electronically and digitally in some way. 
 
So I mean, it's sort of where do you draw the line? And if -- I mean, I think, you know, across social media, people have noticed that Kate isn't wearing her wedding ring and there -- George has one of his -- you know, his fingers crossed. And that may -- may well have been what the situation was in the moment when they -- when Prince William took the picture.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: CNN has reached out to Kensington Palace for comment and is reviewing the photograph to look for any potential manipulation.
 
Haiti tinkering on the brink of collapse. Coming up, we'll bring you the latest on the situation which has prompted diplomatic evacuations and concern from the pope.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[00:15:56]
 
HOLMES: Getting now to the ever-worsening situation in Haiti. German and European Union missions say they have evacuated diplomatic staff from Port-au-Prince, due to escalating violence.
 
And U.S. President Joe Biden approved an overnight airlift operation to get nonessential U.S. embassy personnel out of the capital. A spokesperson telling CNN Mr. Biden is, quote, "deeply concerned" about the situation. 
 
Gangs have been carrying out highly coordinated attacks that one leader calls an attempt to overthrow the government. Haiti now under a state of emergency and a curfew until early next month.
 
Thousands of people across Haiti are facing the threat of serious violence. And both security and healthcare systems are rapidly deteriorating. 
 
Earlier, the head of mission for Medicins Sans Frontieres in Haiti spoke with CNN on what he's witnessed on the ground so far.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) JEAN-MARC BIQUET, HEAD OF MISSION, MEDICINS SANS FRONTIERES, HAITI:
 
 It's really difficult to know who is in control of what. Definitely in the part of the city where I'm in presently is quite -- Life is continuing more or less the normal.
 
But you go towards the city center, which is in the part close to the sea, that was definitely a no-go area. Because from one tradition is in the afternoon, you have the shooting starting in a real offensive organized by an armed group against the police station. More than 12 teams were targeting the presidential palace, which is simple, clear, like they did with the prison, when they freed all the prisoners. 
 
That's a way to create a real feel of trouble -- the entire populations. A lot of Haitians presently stays home. They don't move, which is definitely not well. Presently also a problem for notably, the hazard situations. 
 
It's the minimum stuff, because part of them are not very (UNINTELLIGIBLE), and that's totally understandable. Daring to cross the quarters where they are, the violence.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: The spiraling gang violence has displaced thousands of Haitians, many of whom have ended up in the neighboring Dominican Republic. But for the last three years, Dominican President Luis Abinader has been warning the international community about the turmoil in Haiti and calling for action. 
 
Jessica Hasbun reports from Santo Domingo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JESSICA HASBUN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Emmanuel Pie is one of the many Haitians who is trying to renew his documents at the Haiti embassy in Santo Domingo. Like him, many are feeling helpless, seeing what's happening in their country. 
 
EMMANUEL PIE, HAITIAN (through translator): People are killing people in Haiti. I don't know what the problem is. There has to be a solution. 
 
HASBUN (voice-over): This man is desperate to go home, but he's also afraid to do so under the turmoil facing his country where gangs control up to 80 percent of the Haitian capital, according to the United Nations. 
 
DANIEL MERESTE ELFABE, HAITIAN RESIDING IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (through translator): I am suffering more, because I just can't go to Haiti. And the problem over there is serious. After 6 p.m., you can't even go outside.
 
HASBUN (voice-over): At the border city of Dajabon, tension runs high, and the security is even higher as Dominican authorities limit the access of patients to the Dominican Republic, even on the days when the binational market is open for business, where Dominicans and Haitians buy and sell goods. 
 
MICHEL PICHELO, HAITIAN MERCHANT (through translator): Because they are blocked. They are right to take those actions here. They are right. No one can identify the gang members.
 
HASBUN (voice-over): Dominican President Luis Abinader said Monday that a heightened level of security was in effect on his country's border with Haiti, and that any escaped Haitian prisoner of the estimated 3,500 tried to enter the country would face a drastic response. 
 
HASBUN: The violence has also prompted the Dominican Republic to suspend all cargo and passenger flights to and from neighboring Haiti. Many Haitians here at the embassy wait anxiously for word about their loved ones.
 <br>[00:20:10]
 
ESTHER ANGEL, HAITIAN RESIDING IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (through translator): The situation, what's happening over there, it's terrible. It's our country. But we'll leave here. We don't want anything bad to happen here either. 
 
HASBUN (voice-over): Just this week, the U.S. embassy issued an alert where it said it could not facilitate air travel for private U.S. citizens out of Haiti. 
 
While our cameras were rolling this Wednesday at the Haitian Dominican border in Dajabon, at least three American citizens safely walked across to the Dominican city. 
 
But the reality is that most Haitians are stuck in the middle of the violence without a way out. 
 
According to the U.N., gang violence runs deep, leaving Haiti on the verge of an abyss. 
 
Jessica Hasbun, CNN, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: The international community continues to monitor the crisis in Haiti, including Pope Francis, who offered his prayers for the Haitian people on Sunday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POPE FRANCIS, LEADER OF ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (through translator): I follow with concern and sorrow the serious crisis affecting Haiti and the violent episodes that have occurred in recent days. I am close to the church and to the dear Haitian people, who have been suffering for years. 
 
I invite you to pray for the intercession of Our Lady of Perpetual Help that all violence may cease, and that all may offer their contribution to the growth of peace and reconciliation in the country, with the renewed support of the international community. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Pope Francis, meanwhile, being slammed by Ukraine after saying that Kyiv should negotiate with Russia to end the fighting.
 
In an interview with a Swiss broadcaster, the pontiff said Kyiv should have the, quote, "courage of the white flag to negotiate." 
 
But Ukraine's foreign minister disagreed, not surprisingly, saying in a social media post, quote, "Our flag is a yellow and blue one. This is the flag by which we live, die and prevail. We shall never raise any other flags." 
 
Ukraine's leader, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, also dismissing the pope's remarks.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): When the Russian evil started this war on February 24, all Ukrainians stood up to defense. All Christians, Muslims, Jews, everyone. I think every Ukrainian chaplain who's with the army in the defense forces on the front line, defending life and humanity, they support us with prayer, with talk, and with deeds. 
 
This is what the church with the people is, not two-and-a-half thousand kilometers away. Somewhere to mediate virtually between someone who wants to live and someone who wants to destroy you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Poland's foreign minister says the presence of NATO troops in Ukraine is not unthinkable, even though Ukraine is not a member of the alliance.
 
In a speech marking the 25th anniversary of Poland's accession to NATO, the minister showed appreciation for the initiative of the French president, Emmanuel Macron, who said last month that sending Western troops to Ukraine could not be ruled out. 
 
But those comments drew swift responses from European leaders, including Poland's prime minister, who said there were no such plans. 
 
Still to come on the program, the U.S. warns Israel its plans to step up military operations in a city packed with displaced civilians is a red line. We'll have more on that.
 
Also, China's Communist Party leaders reveal their plans for the future as the annual meeting of the National People's Congress winds down. We'll discuss their vision and how the U.S. presidential election may come into play.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[00:26:05] HOLMES: The U.S. president is sharpening his criticism of Israel's prime minister. Joe Biden says Benjamin Netanyahu needs to, quote, "pay more attention to innocent lives being lost in the war against Hamas." 
 
Biden is warning Netanyahu that his plans to expand military operations into Rafah, the massively crowded city in Southern Gaza, is a red line.
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez with those details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: U.S. officials tell CNN that the Biden ministration does not currently anticipate that Israeli forces will expand their military operations into Rafah. 
 
That's an area in Gaza where more than a million Palestinians have fled. And that has been a looming concern as negotiators worked around the clock to try and reach a ceasefire deal. 
 
That deal would include a six-week temporary ceasefire, as well as the release of hostages, particularly the most vulnerable. 
 
Now Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said that, regardless of a deal, he plans to expand his military operation into this area, Rafah.
 
President Biden, on the other hand, saying that that would be a red line. 
 
So it's unclear where this deal is headed, whether they can reach a ceasefire deal, but this potential operation into Rafah could set up a showdown between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Biden. 
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: China's National People's Congress is due to wrap up in a matter of hours. The annual meeting of the country's legislature is one of two major political sessions happening in China this month. 
 
The other, held by its political advisory body, ended Sunday. 
 
Observers say the meetings are largely ceremonial, where thousands of delegates rubber-stamp the Communist Party agenda. But they also give China's leaders the chance to share their visions on issues, including the economy, defense spending, foreign policy, and more. 
 
Joining me now is Simone McCarthy. She is the China writer for CNN.com. It's great to see you, Simone. You attended this gathering, an important time for China's leaders to lay out their vision for the year ahead. Briefly, before we get into the nuts and bolts, summarize that vision
 
 for us.
 
SIMONE MCCARTHY, CHINA WRITER, CNN.COM: That's right, Michael. Thousands of delegates from across the country gathered in Beijing this week for what is really the Chinese government's most important opportunity to broadcast their overarching goals for the year ahead. 
 
That's on everything from the economy to social issues, to foreign policy. 
 
Chinese leaders were keen to project confidence in the economy this year. They set an ambitious growth target of around 5 percent. But one of the things that we saw that was really an overarching goal was this transformation of China's economy into a high-tech economy. There was a lot of focus on science and technology development, on innovation and on technological self-reliance.
 
HOLMES: Right, right. Now, let's talk about the U.S. and China. The economies, obviously, deeply intertwined. They depend on each other in many ways.
 
But the political and diplomatic relationship is fraught, as we know. Trump and Biden, they both talk tough on China on a range of issues. Did you get a sense who China would rather win the U.S. election, Trump or Biden? 
 
MCCARTHY: Well, Michael, Chinese leaders did not specifically address the U.S. elections in this gathering, and they typically are reticent to make comments about other countries' elections.
 
That said, we know that they're concerned about an increase in pressure on China coming into the election campaign season. And moving into the next presidential term ahead. 
 
The other thing that we can certainly be sure of is that they're weighing up the pros and cons of a Trump presidency versus a Biden presidency. And focusing, as I just mentioned, on self-reliance, on a defensive posture, making sure that China is ready and secure for whoever comes into office, because those tensions are likely to continue. 
 
HOLMES: Yes. I guess if Biden is Trump -- tough on China, Trump, despite his love of authoritarian leaders, is nothing if not unpredictable. Some would say unreliable. 
 <br>[00:30:10]
 
Is that unpredictably -- unpredictability what worries China most about Trump? That he can -- he can switch policy and rhetoric on a whim?
 
MCCARTHY: That's absolutely something that Chinese leaders are concerned about. And I think world leaders across the globe are also thinking about that as they consider the return of Trump to a second term in office. That said, I do think that Trump's economic policy towards China is
 
 probably the thing that Chinese leaders are the most concerned about. We've already seen the former president floating upwards of 60 percent tariffs on Chinese imports into the U.S. 
 
That would come at a very difficult time for China. Michael, as you know, we've already seen a property sector crisis, a stock market rout. There's high youth unemployment, not to mention weak consumer demand. A host of issues are affecting the Chinese economy. 
 
So putting a huge hole in their export market, that would be something that would be very challenging and that Chinese leaders are definitely thinking about and trying to prepare for.
 
HOLMES: Right. Of course, Donald Trump, apart from starting trade wars with China when he was in office, he seen -- he's also seen as friendly or sympathetic to Vladimir Putin, someone Mr. Xi has a close relationship with.
 
He's criticized NATO. He's criticized American defense pacts with Japan and South Korea. He's signaled a willingness to implement trade measures against allies in Europe. 
 
How does all that play into the hands of Xi's global strategy for China? 
 
MCCARTHY: Absolutely, that is something that the Chinese leadership will be thinking about in terms of opportunities if Biden [SIC] comes into -- excuse me, if Trump comes into office.
 
That's something that we've seen Beijing watching warily, especially as Biden has tightened U.S. alliances. We see that, of course, with the war in Ukraine, where U.S. and European partners have created a united front against Russia's aggression in Europe. 
 
We've also seen that in terms of in what China would consider its own neighborhood, with Japan and South Korea, where Biden has tightened security coordination across -- with both of those partners, as well as with the security conferences of OCAS (ph) and the Quad. 
 
So Beijing has been very concerned about this. And the other thing about that is that they see that some of those partners are then going along with what they see as U.S. policies, policy to suppress China. And that's something that we see with European countries de-risking their supply chains. 
 
And so, were Trump to come into office and then to continue what is more seen as his America first policy, well, that would certainly be something that Chinese leaders would look to benefit from. 
 
And I will just add one more thing on that point, Michael. And that's the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, has been very interested in pushing back against a world order that he sees dominated by the United States. 
 
And so, were America to step back from that leadership position, that's something that he would certainly see as serving his own personal goals. 
 
HOLMES: Fascinating analysis. Simone McCarthy, China writer for CNN.com. Got a piece up there right now. People should go and check it out. Thanks, Simone. 
 
MCCARTHY: Thank you, Michael.
 
HOLMES: TikTok could be banned in the U.S. unless its Chinese owners divest themselves of the social media site. Some lawmakers in the U.S. say it could compromise American users' data and manipulate public sentiment. 
 
CNN's Manu Raju explains why some on Capitol Hill are convinced that TikTok poses a danger.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: TikTok may be one of those popular apps in the country, but it's possible, it could be banned in the United States. 
 
RAJU (voice-over): That's if a new bill that is steaming through the House ultimately becomes law. That piece of legislation would force the Chinese firm ByteDance to sell it. If it doesn't sell TikTok, then the popular app would no longer be allowed in the United States. 
 
This has wide support in the House. In fact, packet -- passing overwhelmingly, 50 to zero in the House Energy and Commerce Committee just last week. That is unusual. You rarely see that level of bipartisan support. 
 
And quickly, after the House majority leader, Steve Scalise, announced it would be on the floor of the House this week. So it could certainly pass.
 
Then it would go to the United States Senate, which would have to take up the bill, pass it, see if it passes the same version. Ultimately, see if it goes to the president's desk, which -- and whether the present would sign the final version of that legislation into law, which the White House has indicated it does support this measure. 
 
RAJU: Now that doesn't mean that TikTok isn't trying to stop this legislation. In fact, they are trying to kill it. That's what the top Republican who chairs that Energy and Commerce Committee told me on Friday, that our office is being flooded with phone calls.
 
REP. CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (R-WA): Yes. We've been flooded with calls. Record amounts of calls. Any member of the Energy and Commerce Committee that voted yesterday has been flooded.
 <br>[00:35:04]
 
TikTok actually put up a notice where they blocked an individual to actually get on TikTok unless you called your member of Congress and told them, you know, not to vote for this legislation.
 
But that's just an example of how they can manipulate data and influence Americans for their agenda.
 
RAJU: Now, the lawmakers are trying to force ByteDance to sell TikTok --
 
RAJU (voice-over): -- because they are worried, they say, about the Chinese government interfering in the popular social media app, taking data and the like on Americans, private information. And they're trying to stop them from doing that. 
 
TikTok has denied Chinese government interference in all of this, but that doesn't mean that it won't become law. 
 
RAJU: We'll see how quickly the Senate would take it up after the House is expected to pass it later this week.
 
The president did say, though, if they pass the bill that's before the House, he will sign it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HOLMES: Our thanks to Manu Raju for that report. 
 
Now, a quick break and when we come back, Hollywood royalty turned out for the year's biggest night in film. We'll break down the best moments from the Academy Awards, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Hollywood wrapped up its biggest night a short time ago, celebrating the best achievements in filmmaking in 2023 at the 96th Academy Awards.
 
Awards darling "Oppenheimer" dominated the competition, winning seven Oscars out of 13 nominations, including awards for Cinematography Original Score, Best Director, Best Actor in both Leading and Supporting Roles, and the top honor of the night, Best Picture.
 
Not far behind was the genre-defying comedy, "Poor Things," earning Emma Stone her second Oscar for Best Actress in a Leading Role. 
 
The night also featuring performances by nominees for Best Original Song.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC: "I'M JUST KEN")
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: That's part of Ryan Gosling's show-stopping performance of "I'm Just Ken" from "Barbie," made by Warner Brothers, part of CNN's parent company, we should point out. 
 
His performance earned a standing ovation, but ultimately the movie's other nominated song, "What Was I Made For," ended up taking the Oscar. It was also a big night for Japanese filmmakers, with the film "The
 
 Boy and the Heron" winning the Oscar for Best Animated Feature film. 
 
And the kaiju action movie, "Godzilla Minus One" winning for Best Visual Effects.
 
CNN's Hanako Montgomery joins me now from Tokyo with more. 
 
Hanako, a big night for Japanese cinema.
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Michael, a very, very big night for Japanese cinema. I mean, fans in the country have been celebrating these Oscar wins like they've won the awards personally. 
 <br>[00:40:07]
 
And, you know, it makes sense. People across the country grew up watching Godzilla movies. They grew up watching Studio Ghibli movies. They are a hugely integral and culturally significant part of Japanese anime and pop culture. 
 
So these Oscar wins are really a nod to the international acclaim that these films have been garnering in recent years.
 
And, you know, tonight, Godzilla made history by becoming the first film in the franchise's 70 years to win an Oscar, in the Best Visual Effects category.
 
You saw the director there with several other people from the Godzilla crew, accept their golden statuettes alongside their Godzilla figurines. Very adorable, very on brand. 
 
And, you know, for Hayao Miyazaki, who's previously won an Oscar back in 2003 for the beloved "Spirited Away," this is another jewel in the crown for him.
 
The 83-year-old director actually came out of retirement to make "Boy and the Heron." It took him seven years, seven painstaking years, but it's safe to say, I think, that it paid off. 
 
The film is actually the biggest hit in Japanese box offices. It made more than 5.46 million U.S. dollars in the opening weekend alone.
 
And, you know, the unique thing about this film is that they took no prior marketing. There was no trailers. There were no soundtracks released. You didn't know who was voicing these characters until you're actually sitting in the theaters.
 
And it worked. It drew in those crowds. It drew in people like myself. I was there on opening day, as well, to watch "Boy and the Heron." Because, you know, Michael, when it's a Studio Ghibli film, you know it's going to be great, great entertainment.
 
HOLMES: Right. We're almost out of time, literally one minute. But we were emailing before the show, and you mentioned that Miyazaki, 83 years old. Rumors he's onto his next movie? MONTGOMERY: Yes. You know, he is a fickle man, a genius, but a fickle man. There are some rumors sort of confirmed by his producer, Suzuki, that he is already working on his next film. 
 
And as you mentioned, he's an 83-year-old director. He's been trying to retire, actually, since 1997, but he still keeps coming back. He keeps coming back with more amazing films, more great entertainment for both Japan and the entire world. 
 
We don't know anything about this next film, when it's going to be released, when it's -- what it's about, even. But it's safe to say, I think, that there's a lot of excitement already if it's going to be a Miyazaki film, Michael.
 
HOLMES: I'm exhausted just knowing that he's 83 and onto the next one. Hanako Montgomery, thank you so much. Good to see you there in Tokyo. 
 
And thank you for watching. I'm Michael Holmes. Stay tuned for WORLD SPORT. I'll see you in about 15 minutes or so with more news. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:32]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[00:58:03]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)