Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Experimental Ballistic Missile Strike in Ukraine will Continue; Bitcoin Closing in on $100K; Trump Offers Scott Bessent Treasury Secretary Position; Trump Offers Kelly Loeffler Agriculture Secretary Position; Klarna Gears Up for IPO; Six Tourists Died in Laos for Suspected Tainted Alcohol; Bo Wins 2024 American Humane Hero Dog Awards; Skilled Burgals Targeting Athletes' Homes. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired November 22, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Coming up on Sunday on State of the Union, both senators from Oklahoma, Republicans James Lankford and Markwayne Mullen. 
 
 Also on the show, step Democratic Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois. That's Sunday morning at 9:00 Eastern and again at noon, only here on CNN. 
 
 The news continues on CNN with Pamela Brown and for Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room.
 
Have a wonderful, safe weekend. And beautiful and full of love. Thanksgiving.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  I am in Laos, 10:00 a.m. in Sydney and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And wherever 
 
 you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move." And here's today's need to know. Putin's promise, the Russian president says, experimental ballistic missile 
 
 strikes in Ukraine will continue. Bitcoin breakthrough. Cryptocurrencies on a post-election tear with the largest now tantalizingly close to 100,000. 
 
 We'll discuss why. Plus, treasury tribulations were still awaiting the president-elect's choice after a pretty momentous week on Capitol Hill. And 
 
 a hero hound. Meet the police dog from North Carolina winning awards for solving crimes and saving lives. That conversation and plenty more coming 
 
 up.
 
But first, Russian escalation. President Vladimir Putin says he will keep testing a new hypersonic ballistic missile in combat.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  We will continue these tests, including in combat conditions, depending on the situation and 
 
 the nature of the security threats that are created for Russia, especially since we have a stock of such products, a stock of such systems ready for 
 
 use.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  The Russians fired an experimental missile on Ukraine's Dnipro region on Thursday. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he's now discussing 
 
 new air defense systems with allies. Meanwhile atop, U.K. military official had this warning for Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIEUTENANT GENERAL BOB MAGOWAN, DEPUTY CHIEF, BRITISH DEFENSE STAFF:  If the British army was asked to fight tonight, it would fight tonight. And I 
 
 don't think anybody in this room should be under any illusion that if the Russians invaded Eastern Europe tonight, then we would meet in that fight.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Nick Paton Walsh has more.
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Julia, there are two real questions remaining after the 5:00 a.m. show of what 
 
 Russia says was strength over Dnipro yesterday, and that is, what was that missile, and is Russia capable of doing that again on a regular basis?
 
Now, the first question seems to be finding a consensus around that being a non-nuclear hypersonic missile capable of firing multiple warheads exactly 
 
 the speed it traveled at, whether Russia is capable of doing that again, the ultimate question. Ukraine defense intelligence officials saying they 
 
 think this is the Kedr missile, yes, hypersonic, but potentially a prototype of which they say as of October, Russia only had two of, they 
 
 say, quote, "thank God."
 
So, ultimately, Kyiv here bracing for some kind of assurance that Russia has only limited numbers. Putin so clear to stress that this could get 
 
 through any kind of western, let alone Ukrainian air defenses, but it forms part of a bid by Russia to show its continuing muscle in terms of armaments 
 
 and one that Ukraine has seen bolstered recently by the number of North Korean ballistic missiles that they've had contributed, many of which 
 
 depend upon western parts to function.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (voice-over):  The scramble for the dead or the living. Horrifically commonplace in Ukraine. Yet, this series of homes in Kyiv turned to rubble 
 
 by something other, not Russian, but a North Korean supplied ballistic missile. And made able to fly here to cause this barbarism, killing a man 
 
 and his four-year-old son by circuitry from the United States.
 
Ukrainian officials told CNN ballistic missile attacks by Russia were rising fast, 194 so far this year, and about a third of them, at least 60, 
 
 were using North Korean KN-23s. But these crude missiles, part of growing aid as North Korean troops also come to Russia, rely on a sophistication 
 
 smuggled into the hermit kingdom.
 
One on display by Ukrainian investigators at this Kyiv warehouse of missile fragments. It is a house of horrors, drones that haunt the night skies, 
 
 rockets that tear down lives. They pick through the dust to learn how the killing machines work. Here, rebuilding a Shahed Iranian drone's circuits.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
WALSH:  Parts from a Kinzhal missile, a Shahed Iranian drone and a Russian Orlan reconnaissance drone, all things Ukraine has been subjected to for 
 
 many months, but key, these North Korean KN-23 missiles rely on -- they say, on components from the United States and the Netherlands.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  This box, containing dozens of small bits of circuitry made by household names in the USA or Europe. Subject to sanctions 
 
 globally, but smuggled often via China to North Korea.
 
WALSH:  When you open all this up and find American components, how do you feel?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  Like sanctions are failing.
 
ANDRIY KULCHYTSKYI, KYIV SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF FORENSIC EXPERTISE (through translator):  All the electronics are foreign. There is 
 
 nothing Korean in it. The only thing Korean is the metal, which quickly rusts and corrodes.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  The journey the chips and circuits take to Russia may lead through North Korea, even China as a middleman, that, ultimately, they 
 
 are U.S. Design and make.
 
OLEKSANDR VYSIKAN, KYIV SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF FORENSIC EXPERTISE (through translator):   The chips most often from the United States, but 
 
 the country of manufacture can be China, Malaysia, Taiwan. However, it means that the headquarters is in the United States.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  As the toll from these missiles deepens, Ukrainian officials say the western firms need to be held accountable. From 
 
 Thursday's Russian launch of a new weapon to their growing use of purloined North Korean missiles, the global reach of this war grows.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (on camera):  Now, Julia, put those North Korean armaments aside, it's the personnel that are causing Ukraine concern too. And while the 
 
 preponderance of them are in Kursk, a Russian region into which Ukraine made an incursion in August, about 11,000, we're told. There are signs 
 
 we're hearing from a Ukrainian security source that there are some North Korean personnel in Russian uniform, they say, in Mariupol, the southern 
 
 port city, possibly in smaller numbers, and also indications from Ukrainian military sources that they are seeing North Korean troops inside of 
 
 Kharkiv, too.
 
So, a sign, potentially, that North Korea's personnel contribution is indeed growing small, but some say a sign that Putin is reluctant to draw 
 
 upon the middle classes of Moscow and St. Petersburg, parts of Russian society whose support he desperately needs to bolster their flagging ranks 
 
 given the remarkable casualty numbers, western officials say, they're suffering, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Nick Paton Walsh there. Now, cryptocurrency, Bitcoin, ending the week on the edge of glory, tantalizingly close to a 
 
 major milestone, $100,000 per Bitcoin. It's currently up around, what, a quarter, no -- now around half a percent, it was just a whisker away from 
 
 $100,000 earlier. It's been on a tear since election day too, up more than 40 percent on hopes. President-Elect Donald Trump will be a crypto booster. 
 
 Trump promising during the campaign to make the U.S. the crypto capital of the planet with an advisory council and a bitcoin reserve.
 
Trump also has a chance to appoint a more friendly securities and exchange commission chair too. Current head and crypto skeptic Gary Gensler will 
 
 soon step down. The sector's comeback leaving a scandal filled 2023 marked by the collapse of Sam Bankman-Fried's trading platform FTX long behind, at 
 
 least for now.
 
Joining us is Ian Rogers, the chief experience officer for digital asset security firm Ledger. And he joins us from Paris. Good morning to you, Ian. 
 
 Thank you for staying up late for us this Friday.
 
IAN ROGERS, CHIEF EXPERIENCE OFFICE, LEDGER:  Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  We'll talk about your business in a moment, because I know it's born out of the experiences of the last few years and tailored as 
 
 such. But what do you see happening today and what's driving this exuberance?
 
ROGERS:  Well, I mean, you've already talked about all the changes that are happening in the market. I mean, Bitcoin hasn't changed, but certainly 
 
 people's opinion of it has. And, you know, as it goes up, you get more awareness and more belief. But, you know, the reality is we lead digital 
 
 lives and having digital gold and a scarce asset in these digital lives has value.
 
And as more people hear the story, understand the narrative, read books like "Broken Money" by Lyn Alden, they get it and they're coming on board. 
 
 But certainly, having a supportive regulatory environment helps.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Do you think that's what's coming? Because a lot of what's driving it at the moment is optimism, I think in hope, and it's not just 
 
 about Bitcoin. There are all sorts of digital currencies and meme coins that are being boosted in this interim period. But do you think like the 
 
 industry has been crying out for quite frankly, particularly over the last five years, but we can argue longer clarity over regulation, particularly 
 
 in the United States? Do you believe that's what's coming as part of the plans of the next administration? Because there's a lot of talk, but we 
 
 need action.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
ROGERS:  Yes, I certainly hope so in terms of clarity. You know, I mean, I was an entrepreneur in the internet in the '90s in the 2000's, and the 
 
 administration at that time did a lot to make sure that the work that we were doing on the internet was available to -- or was open to progress.
 
We've had a very -- you know, very strong headwinds against entrepreneurs in the space over the last few years. And, you know, simply getting clarity 
 
 and allowing people to -- you know, to know if what they're -- you know, what they're building is going to be legal. You know, we would love for 
 
 people to be detected from -- you know, from scams, but that's not really what's been going on over the last few years. It's actually been, you know, 
 
 headwinds that harm innovation. So, hopefully, we do get clarity and innovators can innovate.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and I think to your point as well, we have to separate the coins and the rise and fall of those coins over a particular period to 
 
 the innovation that's taking place in the underlying technologies. And that, at least as far as my understanding is concerned, and the 
 
 conversations I have continues nonetheless. And that's where your business comes in. Just describe, as you said, digitized technology is brilliant in 
 
 many respects, but the greater digitization, the more vulnerable we are to forms of hacking, for example, and cyber security risks. Explain your 
 
 business and what you provide.
 
ROGERS:  Yes. So, at Ledger, we make hardware and software that does a better job at protecting your digital value than your phone or your 
 
 computer can do. So, we make these little companions to your -- you know, to your phones or your computer that help you to protect your private key 
 
 and they help you make sure that your digital value such as Bitcoin or even your identity are safe.
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. And what's business been like since we saw Bitcoin rise from sort of $65,000 to $70,000 per Bitcoin to where we are now, almost 
 
 $100,000 per Bitcoin?
 
ROGERS:  Yes. It's been quite a ride. I mean, we've been building -- you know, 2021 was a very big year for us. And as you said, you know, '22 and 
 
 '23, you know, really took a hit on the market. We've been building all the way through that. You know, when you go through something like that, you 
 
 can -- you know, you decide what you do at that point, and we decided to keep investing, keep building. And we've built a lot of great products in 
 
 the interim, including tuning devices. This one is called Ledger Stax and it was designed by Tony Fadell, who was the inventor of the iPod.
 
And business has been tremendous in the last few weeks. We've gone up threefold in terms of hardware, three and a half fold in terms of the 
 
 services that we offer, such as buy, swap, earning yield through staking, et cetera. And really, we just continue to break records as Bitcoin 
 
 continues to hit all-time highs.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And very quickly, in your, what, more than a decades long existence, your company's wallets have never been hacked. Does A.I. and 
 
 acceleration in those kinds of forms of technology potentially threaten that record? How do you remain resilient?
 
ROGERS:  It's a great question. I mean, I think A.I. -- you know, A.I. will certainly be a challenge for security across the board. You know, I think 
 
 you'll be able to say this year was the worst year for cybercrime every year for the rest of your life. You don't need to fact check, you will be 
 
 correct. And A.I. will certainly, you know, be a driver in that fight.
 
The way that our products are architected, though, you know, the reality is that the only way to be secure is by design. So, our products are based on 
 
 secure elements. Your private key is stored in, that secure element and cryptographic operations are done in that secure element. And that's 
 
 actually what's driving the secure touchscreen on the device.
 
So, that means that if you are -- you know, when you're making a transaction, if you're approving that transaction on that secure 
 
 touchscreen, then you can be sure what you see is what you sign and you get security. You know, but A.I. will also mean that you'll need to prove often 
 
 in your life that you are who you say you are and that you are a human and you're not a bot. And maybe you're a unique human with this particular 
 
 identification or passport or membership. And that really is the other side of the crypto coin.
 
A.I. delivers digital abundance and, you know, cryptography and blockchains deliver digital scarcity, and those in our future digital lives are two 
 
 sides of the same coin.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Great to chat to you, Ian. Thank you once again for your time. Going to be a very interesting four years. Ian Rogers, chief experience 
 
 officer at digital asset security firm Ledger. Thank you.
 
ROGERS:  Thanks for having me.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. The Trump transition team heading into the weekend with one big cabinet position yet to be announced, treasury secretary. 
 
 Sources tell us President-Elect Donald Trump has offered the treasury secretary position to hedge fund manager Scott Bessent. All this, as 
 
 sources tell us, Trump is set to offer former Georgia Senator Kenny Loeffler the position of Agriculture Secretary. Plus, fresh reaction to 
 
 Trump's new pick for attorney general, Pam Bondi, just hours after embattled Matt Gaetz pulled himself from consideration.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
Tom Foreman joins us now. Tom, let's talk about what we think we know now and that we're expecting imminently, the announcement of treasury secretary 
 
 Scott Bessent.
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, it's hard to keep all the cards straight in this game right now. Yes. Look, so he's a hedge fund guy, a 
 
 Yale graduate, a guy who, you know, bet pretty big on Trump in this, did some big fundraising for Trump, raising tens of millions of dollars. I 
 
 think I'm correct about that Yale connection. I may be wrong on that.
 
Raised tens of millions of dollars to help get Trump into office. And Trump has called him a brilliant guy on Wall Street. So, we know what Trump is 
 
 after. He wants somebody who will help him with his idea of using some kind of putting some tariffs on things coming into the country, seeing if 
 
 there's a way to make that work.
 
And Trump has long talked about the notion that he does not like the Federal Reserve being so independent. So, it'll be interesting to see if 
 
 Bessent here is a guy who will help him figure out the ways in which he might get his claws a little deeper into the Fed, which would be a way of 
 
 him possibly manipulating inflation if he felt that he wanted to do that. So, new news, but we'll find out what happens with that. Along with these 
 
 other choices right now, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. And I think if this is the choice, and you're right, by the way political science, I believe at Yale, this is an investor that 
 
 understands geopolitics, he understands the macro backdrop. He would be seen as Wall Street as a safe pair of hands, and to a greater extent, I 
 
 think, than some of the other choices. And it sort of cleans the way perhaps for some of the other choices, like Kevin Walsh for example, to 
 
 perhaps replace right Jerome Powell in a couple of years' time or 18 months' time when he exits his position at the at the Federal Reserve too. 
 
 So, it is an interesting one.
 
Tom, what about some of the other potential choices and picks that we've talked about, because it's almost out with the old and in with the new, 
 
 particularly for attorney general?
 
FOREMAN:  Yes, that was interesting that now that, you know, Gaetz has been pushed out by the buzz of scandal all around him. Now, Pam Bondi steps in. 
 
 She's been an attorney for Trump before. She's been a big supporter of Trump. She has experience as an attorney general in Florida, one of the 
 
 biggest states in this country. Eight years in that experience as a prosecutor. She's somebody who would know the business fairly well.
 
Now, one of the causes for some alarm from those who aren't in the Trump camp is she has also been an election denier, joining in and saying the 
 
 2020 election wasn't fair, when it clearly was fair and the courts said it was fair. And she is also really pledged to be part of Trump's revenge 
 
 tour, saying that they will go after the people who investigated him over the many, many, many things he's been investigated on, they will 
 
 investigate them because that wasn't right. And those who prosecuted him, they will prosecute those people.
 
Whether or not she'll make good on that, we don't know. But we do know, from Trump's past, he does enjoy revenge. It's one of the things he really 
 
 feels very strongly about. And, in a sense, doesn't even see it as revenge. He sees it as a writing of the record because he feels so wronged on some 
 
 of these fronts.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. One man's revenge is another writing of the record, to your point.
 
FOREMAN:  Yes, exactly.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Tom Foreman, great to have you, sir. Thank you.
 
FOREMAN:  Good seeing you, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. Straight ahead. The future of fintech. Pay as you go giant Klarna gearing up for its IPO. We'll hear from the company's CEO.
 
Plus, a shortage of U.S. air traffic controllers could make some travelers late for turkey dinner this Thanksgiving. The very latest on some U.S. 
 
 holiday hassles, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And TGIF to all our viewers in the U.S., U.K., and across Latin America, and a happy Saturday morning to 
 
 all our first movers in Asia.
 
A fabulous Friday for the Dow topping today's Money Move. The blue chips finishing the week at record highs. Gains as well for the S&amp;P 500 and the 
 
 NASDAQ. NVIDIA shut out of the party, at least temporarily falling more than 3 percent as post earnings volatility continues. Remember, it's up 
 
 almost 200 percent year to date, context matters.
 
In Asia, end of the week gains for the Nikkei and the KOSPI, but a shudder from Shanghai, shares falling more than 3 percent amid trade and 
 
 geopolitical concerns. And Hong Kong weaker too. Tech stocks there falling into a technical bear market. So, that's down some 10 percent from the 
 
 recent highs.
 
Reuters reporting that the U.S. is set to unveil new export restrictions on Chinese chips as soon as next week. And as Wall Street shows little sign of 
 
 slowing, European fintech firms like Klarna may want to go public in the United States. The buy now, pay later firm recently filed the required 
 
 paperwork. It also says it will soon integrate with Google Pay after striking a similar deal with Apple Pay.
 
Earlier, I spoke to the CEO about Klarna's plans to be a global player and IPO stateside.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SEBASTIAN SIEMIATKOWSKI, CEO, KLARNA:  As we have been saying, to me, it was clear for us that the future of retail banking and fintech speaks 
 
 global and we needed to be a global company, meaning success in the U.S. We are now majority revenue U.S., over 30 million consumers in the U.S., but 
 
 we also need to be profitable in the U.S. And as we now have achieved those targets, you know, we feel that the time is ready. Plus, you know, we've 
 
 been private for 20 years. A lot of private investors, employees that hold stock. So, it feels like a natural next step.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Is that why? Because such a significant proportion of your business, as you're saying, and the growth of it is in the United States 
 
 now that you chose to list in the U.S., because there is a lot of bemoaning that you are this European giant, why couldn't Europe have kept you there 
 
 and see you list there rather than coming to the United States? There is some disappointment. Let's be honest.
 
SIEMIATKOWSKI:  Yes, I think there is. And I hope, you know, when Spotify listed in the U.S., they hang out the Swiss flag instead of the Swedish 
 
 flag. So, I hope they do better this time around. But with that said -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  You'll sort them out.
 
SIEMIATKOWSKI:  With that said, I think it's been -- you know, as we did this evaluation, it became clear to us that, obviously, in addition to the 
 
 fact that we are mostly an American business by revenue nowadays it's also so that there is a bigger understanding for growth companies like ours 
 
 among the investor collective in the U.S. And we think that will, you know, benefit the company. We also think it can help our, you know, continuous 
 
 marketing and awareness in the U.S. So, you know, there are obviously additional reasons like that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I was going through some of our old interviews and I remember you saying to me back in 2022 that Apple Pay potentially offering 
 
 a buy now, pay later option was a testament to the power of the tool that you were already providing for consumers, but also, of course, it was 
 
 competition at that point. And now, you're on Apple Pay here and of course in the U.K. as well. And you're going to hit Google pay a little bit this 
 
 year and a lot next year.
 
It sort of takes you from a tool to being mainstream payments, which I know you're already doing. But I think the symbolism is huge and the business.
 
SIEMIATKOWSKI:  Yes, I'm happy you say that. I would tend to agree. And I think it speaks to the kind of shift in strategy we decided to do a few 
 
 years ago, where we decided we want to be a network similar to Visa and Mastercard. And that means we need to go from hundreds of thousands of 
 
 merchants to millions. And the way we can do that is with fantastic partners like Apple, Google and Adyen and World Pay and all the other 
 
 stripe and other big announcements like that we've had that help us distribute our payments to consumers and merchants globally. So, very, very 
 
 happy about this new -- and it's kind of a shift of business to not work only directly with merchants, but through these partners.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Klarna's CEO there. Now, European first movers might want to stay indoors. Much of the continent blanketed in snow while the U.K. braces 
 
 for Storm Bert. Meanwhile, Paris already looking Particularly seasonal. Chad Myers joins us now. A perfect time to travel to Paris. Talk to us 
 
 about the snow. Yay.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  That would be May. That would be April or May, before the kids get out of school.
 
CHATTERLEY:  That's true.
 
MYERS:  It is going to be a cold couple of weeks here. Big low-pressure center coming into the U.K. As you said, Northwestern Europe going to see a 
 
 lot of wind and an awful lot of snow for Turkey. You don't usually say that. You don't usually say how much snow is going to be coming down here. 
 
 The European model putting out 130 centimeters of snow, right on top there, and it is just going to be coming off the Black Sea. We call it lake effect 
 
 snow because it is a lake usually, but it could be sea effect snow when it comes in that direction.
 
Here's the storm for Northwestern Europe. And man, is it a storm. It is going to be warm rain to the south. Snow -- as you get the higher 
 
 elevations, it will be snow. But what this wind will do is bring wind. 100- kilometer per hour winds, likely even higher if you're right at the coast, where the water is over the water and then all of a sudden, hitting the 
 
 coast, you could be 120 KPH there. So, yes, big warnings going on up here. High alerts for parts of northwestern Europe.
 
Now, we get back into the U.S. We're talking about this atmospheric river now for days. It's finally going to come to an end tonight, but a half a 
 
 meter of rainfall in some places that certainly didn't want it. Here are some vineyards in California making very good wine here in parts of 
 
 California, Sonoma, Napa County, but that's what the water looked like in the vineyard itself.
 
Now, the good news is if you look very closely, the fruit is gone, because this would have completely wiped the wine quality away with all of those 
 
 grapes getting so much water so late in the season. At least those grapes are picked.
 
The rain showers cooling things off and also slowing down the airports in San Francisco over three-hour delays right now. If you're trying to go east 
 
 or west out of that major east to west hub. And it will be a holiday week here in North America in the U.S. over the next couple of days, and a lot 
 
 of snow will be coming down in the Sierra. So, for all of you ski lovers, like someone I was just talking to, you may want to go out to California 
 
 and go play near Reno and up in Tahoe because there will be a lot of new snow for you, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Done. I'm sold. Checking flights.
 
MYERS:  I'll meet you there.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Exactly. It's a date. Chad, thank you. Have a wonderful weekend. Thank you. More "First Move" after this. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. The judge in Donald Trump's hush money 
 
 trial has postponed sentencing indefinitely. The judge, granting President -- Former President Trump's request to file a motion to dismiss the case, 
 
 the Manhattan D.A.'s office has a week to respond. It has said the conviction should stand.
 
California has reported the first U.S. case of bird flu in a child. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirming the case today. The 
 
 child is at home and recovering after receiving treatment. And state health officials are investigating potential exposure to wild birds.
 
A civil jury has found that MMA fighter Conor McGregor did commit sexual assault against a woman in 2018. The Dublin jury awarded the complainant 
 
 more than $250,000. Police had previously investigated the woman's allegation, but prosecutors declined to bring charges saying there was 
 
 insufficient evidence and a conviction was unlikely. McGregor has maintained his innocence, testifying the sex was consensual.
 
And there's been another reported death from the suspected mass poisoning in Laos. The fatal incident centered around a popular backpacker 
 
 destination. Six foreign tourists have died, including two Australian teenagers who consumed tainted alcohol. The victims were remembered by the 
 
 rock band Pearl Jam at a concert in Sydney.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EDDIE VEDDER, PEARL JAM FRONTMAN:  To hear the story about these two young girls in Laos and I guess they, their drinks were spiked or something. 
 
 Absolute -- senseless.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALSH (on camera):  Melissa Bell has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Six people are now believed to have died as a result of tainted alcohol poisoning in Laos. The 
 
 latest victim, a 19-year-old woman from Melbourne, Australia, who'd been backpacking through Asia with her best friend. The two women are believed, 
 
 according to the Associated Press, to have been given free shots in the hostel they were staying at before heading out for a night of drinking in 
 
 Vang Vieng, a popular hotspot for backpackers in Laos.
 
In Laos, the other victims include British woman, an American citizen, two Danish citizens as well, with several western consulates saying they're 
 
 working with some of their citizens who are believed also to have been impacted by the tainted alcohol. Those countries believe that methanol 
 
 poisoning is to blame, although no cause of death has been announced. We spoke to one doctor who told us about exactly just how poisonous methanol 
 
 was.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNO MEGARBANE, LARIBOISIERE HOSPITAL, PARIS:  Even a drop of methanol is toxic. It has been estimated that an amount of 10 milliliters of methanol 
 
 could result in the death of an adult of 70 kilograms. So, it is really very toxic. And the fatal amount is very low.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BELL:  According to the Associated Press, several people have been taken in for questioning, including the manager of the hostel where the two young 
 
 Australian backpackers were staying, although no charges have yet been brought. What the deaths have triggered are warnings about the dangers of 
 
 tainted alcohol and the need to take care.
 
Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Melissa there. Now, a heads up for U.S. travelers during the Thanksgiving holiday. Aviation officials warning 
 
 flights may be slowed down due to a shortage of air traffic controllers. The Northeast could be particularly impacted with New York facing major 
 
 challenges because the FAA has not been able to fill positions there. Our Aviation Correspondent Pete Muntean has more.
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT:  Julia, a few outs for the Federal Aviation Administration dealing with this air traffic controller 
 
 shortage. It is burning out the workforce, and some are working mandatory six-day weeks of 12-hour shifts. It's also a safety issue. Since fatigue 
 
 has been a factor in some of the recent cases of near collisions on runways, the rub really comes in when there's a huge rush like Thanksgiving 
 
 travel. The FAA says the number of flights will peak on Tuesday before Thanksgiving. That's when 50,000 flights will be handled by air traffic 
 
 controllers nationwide here in the U.S.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
FAA Chief Mike Whitaker says do not be surprised if the FAA slows the pace of flights. Simply put, that means delays to keep the travel system safe. 
 
 Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL WHITAKER, ADMINISTRATOR, FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION:  These initiatives keep the system safe and people should know that safety is 
 
 never at risk. If we are short on staff, we will slow traffic as needed to keep the system safe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUNTEAN:  Now, the FAA says it met its controller hiring goal this year, hired another 1,800 new controllers. The goal is hiring another 2,000 next 
 
 year. The FAA is also now allowing graduates of certain college programs to bypass the backlogged FAA training academy. It's a huge about-face from the 
 
 FAA, which for years has demanded that it have the final hand in training. Just this week, the FAA added Emory Riddle Aeronautical University to its 
 
 list of accredited schools. New grads who were hired by the FAA can go straight to an air traffic control facility to finish their training.
 
One more important point. The depth of this shortage is not totally known. The FAA hiring goals do not detail retirements or attrition or new hires 
 
 who wash out of training. In May, we reported that the FAA has netted only 160 new controllers overall.
 
One more measures the FAA is taking, it has moved the facility responsible for the airspace around Newark, New Jersey to Philadelphia. The FAA says 
 
 that will lead to a better pipeline of candidates and alleviate some staffing issues there. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thanks to Pete Muntean. Now, speaking of travel, it erases distances and makes you a more sensitive citizen of the world. Those are 
 
 the words of Arthur Frommer, the pioneering travel guidebook author. He passed away this week at the age of 95.
 
And a short while ago, I spoke with Pauline Frommer about how her father found his calling.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULINE FROMMER, ARTHUR FROMMER'S DAUGHTER:  It was a total fluke that he became a travel writer. He was drafted into the U.S. Army during the Korean 
 
 War, and he got to Germany, and he felt like it was a dream come true.
 
In those days, only the very rich would be able to travel across the Atlantic. It was considered the grand tour. And so, he democratized travel. 
 
 He -- all of his fellow G.I.s just stayed on the base. It was right after World War II. Europe was still in rubble. They thought it actually would be 
 
 dangerous to travel cheaply.
 
And he traveled all over the place and thought. I'll write a little book. It's sold out in the army. And then he wrote a book called "Europe on 5 
 
 Dollars a Day" for civilians. It became the bestselling guidebook of all time, changed his life and democratized travel.
 
CHATTERLEY:  One of the quotes from the original book, which I loved. This is a book for American tourists who own no oil wells in Texas, unrelated to 
 
 the Aga Khan, and have never struck it rich in Las Vegas. It was about, to your point, democratizing travel for those people that weren't the 
 
 wealthiest in the world.
 
May I ask where his favorite place in the world was and how you think he would like to be remembered?
 
FROMMER:  He loved Paris. He was a Francophile. He thought that there was no place more beautiful than Paris, and he also admired how the French 
 
 would go into cafes and have serious discussions about politics, about philosophy. He thought that travel and life should be a thinking experience 
 
 that everything was about learning. And I think he would want to be remembered for that.
 
He also was one of the first to talk about sustainable travel. He wanted to people to go not to the multinational chains, but to the small mom and pop 
 
 restaurants and hotels and support the local community.
 
CHATTERLEY:  You know, a lot of Brits and I find it with Americans, too, you know, we tend to not learn other languages. I'm talking very 
 
 generalized because, obviously, everybody speaks English. Did he never worry about the language barriers or his charm and grace somehow bypassed 
 
 that as well?
 
FROMMER:  Well, that's why he was sent to Germany. He was about to be sent to Korea, but because he was the son of immigrants, his mother taught him 
 
 Russian. And he spoke German and French. He was always a whiz at languages. So, he was a big believer in learning languages, actually.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And his legacy is in good hands, as you can see there, because Pauline is the co-president of Frommer Media and editorial director of 
 
 Frommer's guidebooks.
 
Now, coming up, one top dog, this brave puppy is officially a hero. I'll speak to this very good boy and his handler after the break. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Welcome back. And a reminder of our breaking news this hour. Donald Trump has offered the treasury secretary position to Scott 
 
 Bessent. That's according to two sources familiar with the matter. The billionaire hedge fund manager advised Trump on economic policy on the 
 
 campaign trail. The 62-year-old gained prominence for leading efforts to bet against the British pound and Japanese yen that netted his firm 
 
 billions of dollars in profits. He's going to be seen on I think is a safe pair of hands on Wall Street. He certainly understands geopolitics and he 
 
 certainly understands economics and the scale and importance of the U.S. dollar and the treasury market.
 
OK. Let's move on. On "First Move," all dogs are good dogs. However, our next guests are pretty exceptional. Bo the Bloodhound works as a police dog 
 
 in Gastonia, North Carolina, and now, he's being recognized as Hero Dog of the Year by one of the oldest animal welfare organizations in the United 
 
 States, American Humane.
 
And what's remarkable is that Bo has only been on the job for less than a year, and already, he's helped find robbery suspects, missing senior 
 
 citizens, and even helped locate a seven-year-old kidnapping victim. And, by the way, all of this while still only a puppy.
 
Now, just watch this video of him on Picture Day captured -- captioned, quote, "a beautiful disaster." He's super smart, but he's also clearly got 
 
 plenty of personality to spare. And I'm very excited to say Bo joins us now along with his partner in crime fighting and in care, Sergeant David 
 
 Rowland.
 
Sergeant Rowland, David, fantastic to have you on the show. Congratulations to you both, first and foremost. What's your reaction to winning this Hero 
 
 Award, because it is a team effort?
 
SGT. DAVID ROWLAND, GASTONIA POLICE DEPARTMENT:  Yes, thanks again for having us. So, you know, when we got told we were the winners I really 
 
 didn't know what to say. You know, because we were just grateful to be recognized, really just, you know, with his story being told that was, you 
 
 know, great enough for us. But when he won, it was just, you know, overwhelming. It was like your kid's scoring a soccer goal. That's, you 
 
 know, that's what he is. It's the big kid. And you know, I was just super proud of him.
 
CHATTERLEY:  He's very cute, I have to say. And he has enormous ears. And just in the break, we were talking, and he was giving you a lot of love, I 
 
 can say.
 
ROWLAND:  Yes, yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Did he get a tasty bone or something, or a reward for his win?
 
ROWLAND:  He actually -- he loves little chicken meatballs. That's his reward, little chicken meatballs. He loves them.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  So, he's just a baby, as I mentioned. I mean, technically he's still a puppy, but he's enormously talented. What drives that? Because he 
 
 does clearly have a very powerful nose. Just talk to some of the examples. I mentioned a few in the introduction of where he's truly saved lives and 
 
 he's found thieves.
 
ROWLAND:  Yes. So, bloodhounds are just genetically innate to track. Like that's what they were born and bred to do. But basically, all we did was 
 
 help hone in his skills through training, hundreds of hours of training that we did here in-house with Bo, until we were able to certify him. And 
 
 we certify our dogs through a mile and a half long track that's age about 55 to 60 and a half minutes or so.
 
But, you know, these dogs, they're extremely incredible. Their noses are, you know, one of the most powerful nose and the animal kingdom. And we're 
 
 just super, super excited to have him on our team.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and certainly, the most powerful nose in the canine world as well. About the training, I also read that you brought him home as well 
 
 when he was a very little puppy and that your children played a role in training him too, talk about that, because I know there's lots of people 
 
 with animals out there that might be wanting of some tips.
 
ROWLAND:  Yes, yes. So, you know, we brought Bo home when he was around eight weeks old, brought him home to the house and he was able to, you 
 
 know, just bond with our family. And we started playing chase at a very, very, very young age. And he played chase with my kids and, you know, 
 
 that's how we initially start the tracking process with these animals. It's just playing chase.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I sort of should have learned that lesson with my dog Romeo. He's sort of a law unto himself. But Bo is also an interesting mix 
 
 because as we've described, he's a crime fighter. He's got an incredible nose. But he, in many respects, is also like an emotional support animal. I 
 
 mean, one of the examples that I read about was him finding -- locating a child that had been held at knife point and kidnapped. And Bo also provided 
 
 not only finding the child, but comfort as well, the care and the support that, I think, all animal owners know dogs can provide.
 
ROWLAND:  Yes. So, you know, in the middle of the night we get the call that this horrible crime has taken place and due to the child still being 
 
 with the suspect, the decision was made to bring Bo out. And we put Bo on the ground and he completed a seven-mile-long track. And eventually, 
 
 located the subject held up in an abandoned building. And we were able to negotiate the child out of the abandoned building and eventually got a safe 
 
 surrender of the suspect.
 
But, you know, without Bo being there, I'm not really sure what would have happened, honestly, in that situation, just because, you know, it was seven 
 
 miles long, but it was also a four-hour long period. So, that's a lot of time when scent could potentially dissipate, and it makes it that much 
 
 harder to locate these suspects.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I mean, that's -- again, it goes back to the strength of his nose and his ability to track a scent for that long. Just talk about 
 
 your relationship with him as well, because we're talking about his brilliance, but it is about your ability to bring out all of these 
 
 strengths that he has and you continue to utilize. And again, we have to remind ourselves, he's just a baby. He's just a little puppy and he's very 
 
 inquisitive by the way. Look at that.
 
ROWLAND:  Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  He's like -- I'm so over this TV thing.
 
ROWLAND:  Oh, yes. So, you know, Bo, like all handlers, we look at our dogs, almost like our children. We -- Bo lives with me at home. I spend 
 
 more time with this dog than I do my own children and my wife. He comes to work with me every day and he goes home with me every night. So, you know, 
 
 Bo really is a part of my family.
 
And, you know, so we have a special bond. And having that bond helps me read Bo on these tracks and -- which helps us make -- makes us a more 
 
 successful team.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Does he enjoy it? Does he enjoy the chase?
 
ROWLAND:  Oh yes, yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, because I think that's the key. They love to be entertained and they love to be rewarded when they achieve things. So, I 
 
 think that's important to point out too, I guess. How long will he serve for? Fingers crossed. And then he gets to retire.
 
ROWLAND:  Yes. So, you know, it all really depends on his health. It could be, you know, as long as his joints and his drive to continue to do this 
 
 job is there. We'll keep him on the force. So, you know, eight to 10 years, you know, and, you know, at that point, he'll get to retire and come and 
 
 live the rest of his days with me.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Well, I mean, he's already doing that. So, he's already with a very happy family. We can see it. You are both superheroes. We adore 
 
 Bo. Please give him a little bone or as you said, the meatballs treat from us. Lots of love and congratulations again.
 
ROWLAND:  Yes, ma'am.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you, sir.
 
ROWLAND:  Thank you so much.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Sergeant Roland and Bo there. Now, if you've missed any of our interviews today, they'll be on my X and Instagram pages. You can search 
 
 for @JChatterlyCNN.
 
But now, coming up for us, a new warning of burglary tourists. Why U.S. sports stars are now on high alert over transnational thieves. The details, 
 
 next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Pro Sports Leagues in the United States are warning their athletes that skilled burglars may be targeting their homes. Kansas City 
 
 Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes was the victim of one of these break ins. So, was his teammate, Travis Kelce, according to local reports. The 
 
 home of basketball's Bobby Portis Jr. was also burglarized.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOBBY PORTIS JR., MILWAUKEE BUCKS FORWARD:  While I was at my game yesterday, I had a home invasion and they took most of my prize 
 
 possessions. Any info that leads to the return of any of my belongings will be rewarded handsomely.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  These cases seem to follow a similar pattern as Josh Campbell reports.
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Julia. Yes, the feds now involved, and that's because this is now a global investigation. The FBI 
 
 being brought in. That's because the law enforcement thinks that some of these incidents may have been conducted by transnational criminal groups 
 
 coming into the U.S. from overseas.
 
First, there was the warning from the NFL, then the NBA, now, the National Hockey League all warning their players. And what they say is that 
 
 authorities looking at these incidents have noticed certain attributes that are similar. For example, they're noticing burglars conducting extensive 
 
 surveillance before these burglaries actually take place, going so far as oftentimes to pose as delivery drivers or groundskeepers to get a sense of 
 
 the coming and going of various residents. And they're also seeing, in some of these instances, some of the burglars actually scaling walls, going up 
 
 to the second floor of various residences to target master bedrooms, looking for cash, looking for jewelry.
 
Now, we've been reporting on these burglary groups, so-called tourism burglary that has law enforcement in this country from coast to coast 
 
 concerned. I talked to one prosecutor who said that these aren't keystone crooks, these are sophisticated operations.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD SPITZER, ORANGE COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  They're very sophisticated. They lie in wait for days at a time in people's backyards. They have Wi-Fi 
 
 jammers to stop the alarm company from being notified because a lot of people have Wi-Fi systems. And then they have police jammers to jam the 
 
 signal of the police departments.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
CAMPBELL:  And the leagues are providing guidance to players on how to prevent becoming a victim. For example, they say that players should 
 
 install security systems at their homes. They're also saying that they should create with local law enforcement in their neighborhoods.
 
And finally, in a bit of advice that is not just for professional athletes, but perhaps for all of us, watch what you post on social media. These 
 
 sophisticated burglars are going so far as to scan social media authorities, say, trying to determine when someone might be away from their 
 
 home before they strike. So, before, you know, the holidays before you post those beach pictures, remember that these criminals are out there looking 
 
 online. You posting that you're away from home could be that window that they are looking for in order to try to come in and steal your stuff. 
 
 Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Very good advice there. And finally, on "First Move," people in Chicago are bundling up as the city gets its first snowfall of this 
 
 season. The residents at the Brookfield Zoo are making the most of the changes, too.
 
Here's Hudson, a lovely looking polar bear, playing with a ball in a blanket of white snow. The Siberian tiger also seemed quite at home, 
 
 lounging around in his enclosure. And other furry friends include a pair of brown bears, some Mexican gray wolves, and we could add in some African 
 
 lions and last but never least, American bison. Fantastic.
 
And it's also bye-bye for me for the week. Have a wonderful weekend. Thank you for watching, and we'll see you next week.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END