Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Tokyo Rings in the New Year; Olympian Eileen Gu's Passion for the Slopes and Success; CNN Talks to One of the Biggest Art Stars on the Planet. Aired 10-10:30a ET

Aired December 31, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:02]
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And this will, of course, be another year of excitement for Japan, for many people here across the country, also travelers and tourists who are here just soaking in the good vibes and the energy that Tokyo has to bring this year.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN ANCHOR:  A lot of good vibes, a lot of good energy, and let's get ready to count it down together. Hanako?
 
MONTGOMERY:  Yes, six, five, four, three, two, one. Wow.
 
STOUT:  Hanako, Happy New Year. It is already 2025 in Japan, where our Hanako Montgomery is standing by. Happy New Year to you, my dear friend. It has been so cool to see that epic light projection ushering in a New Year, as well as those taiko drummers that we saw out there about 15 minutes ago. I mean, this is really Tokyo, right, this fusion of the modern with the traditional.
 
MONTGOMERY:  Yes, Kristie, you're exactly right. Tokyo is known for blending the traditional. You have all the beautiful temples, but just the artisanship here in Tokyo, the craftsmanship that you see thousands and thousands of years here in Japan. But also it is a perfect blend of modernity, too. I mean, Japan is so well known for all the technological advances that it makes, and it just is this perfect blend.
 
And we saw that here tonight on display fully with the projection mapping and also the musical events that we got to hear, Kristie.
 
STOUT:  And it's cold out there. You got your mittens on, you got your heavy coat on, you got some guests with you. They must be feeling the New Year spirit.
 
MONTGOMERY:  Tell us how are people reacting right now. Yes, Kristie, I think it's best to ask my guests here, Max and Will, how they're feeling about New Year's.
 
So, Max and Will, you guys are here from Australia, yes?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Gold Coast. MONTGOMERY:  Gold Coast, sorry. And what brings you here to Tokyo today?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Just traveling with the family, getting to see Tokyo, bit of everywhere in Japan.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Holidays mainly, but, yes.
 
MONTGOMERY:  And how has this night been for you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Pretty sick. The light show is amazing. The Pac Man, the Godzilla at the site was pretty sick.
 
MONTGOMERY:  We love Godzilla, right?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
MONTGOMERY:  I mean, Sydney also has beautiful fireworks, but how did Tokyo compare?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tokyo's better. Those ones are pretty sick.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tokyo's better.
 
MONTGOMERY:  Really? Are you sure about that?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm very sure.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tokyo is sick.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (INAUDIBLE) from Gold Coast, Sydney, you know?
 
MONTGOMERY:  Sure the Tokyo government's not paying you? Okay. And then 2025, what kind of new year's resolutions do you have for the New Year?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  To study harder for university for next year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  For me, it would be to travel a bit more, see a bit more things, you know?
 
MONTGOMERY:  Nice. So, we got a good A plus student, hopefully, yes?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
MONTGOMERY:  Yes, okay. That's a promise. You're making that on live T.V.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, a plus, great GPA.
 
MONTGOMERY:  And traveling. Where are you going to travel to?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hopefully Europe next year in the summer. That'll be exciting with my mates. Get to see hopefully Sam Constance smash a couple more runs in the New Year too.
 
MONTGOMERY:  Amazing. Well, I am so looking forward to the year that you guys are going to be having. Thank you so much for joining us today. I know it's a bit cold, but thank you so much.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you.
 
MONTGOMERY:  Over to you, Kristie.
 
STOUT:  Hey, I think Brianna's got a question for you.
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR:  And, Hanako, I think one of the -- yes, I think one of the most fun things about this whole day, Hanako, is that we're talking to each other from different years now. So, I'm back in 2024. You're in 2025. How's it going so far?
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
What do we have to look forward to?
 
MONTGOMERY:  Yes, Brianna, you're exactly right. I mean, it is so wild always to think about how we're just 14 hours apart, right, during the winter months.
 
So, so far, the 2025 has been I suppose great. I mean, it was sparkling literally, right? You saw those fireworks, you saw the projection mapping. And in terms of 2025, what people are looking forward to in Japan, I have to say they're looking forward to staying indoors.
 
Of course, Japan is known for working really hard. They have an intense work culture, but New Year's is always a time when you get to spend it with family, spend it at home, eating delicious food. And the Japanese really know how to celebrate because they have the food down right. It's just delicious. And I have to tell you, Brianna, I am looking forward to tucking in myself.
 
STOUT:  Hanako Montgomery joining us live from Tokyo, that's amazing. I want in on that sober Brianna. I know you want to do it, too. Hanako, thank you so much. Happy New Year to you.
 
In the next hour much of Asia, not only Japan is going to be leaping into the new year, including where I am, Hong Kong, including Mainland China, including the Philippines and Taiwan. So, what's in store? You got to stick around to find out.
 
Now, also ahead, meet the Olympian and Stanford Student Eileen Gu, her passion for the ski slopes and global success is putting her name on some very prestigious lists.
 
Also ahead, Takashi Murakami has been taking the world by storm. How the superstar artist is reinventing Japanese history.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NAOMI WATANABE, COMEDIAN:  Hi. I'm Naomi Watanabe. In 2025, I'm looking forward to doing standup comedy tour and making more people laughing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
STOUT:  Our friends in Japan are now celebrating 2025. As Brianna mentioned before the break, they are already in the future. The countdown ended just minutes ago. This is how the New Year arrived in Tokyo with that super cool projection mapping digital display on the Tokyo Metropolitan Government building, coupled with the pyrotechnics, the score being done by traditional taiko drums, and the along with a techno D.J.
 
There were some travelers, teenage visitors who are being interviewed by our Hanako Montgomery there in Tokyo, they declared the setup of the countdown, quote, sick. Now, for all our boomer viewers, that means that was an enthusiastic thumbs up.
 
Now, welcome back to our special coverage of CNN's New Year's Eve Live. We are taking you around the world as we bring in 2025 in about 45 minutes. We're going to be partying here in Hong Kong, as you take a live look at the harbor. Taiwan, Singapore, Mainland China are also all counting down to 2025.
 
Now, meanwhile, Bangkok is in the final hours of 2024, and the Thai capital will hit midnight in less than two hours from now.
 
CNN's Will Ripley is live in Bangkok. He joins us now. And, Will, whenever I talk to you, I need to bring this friend back up, a bedazzled mic, because I know you appreciate the sparkle. Tell us what do you expect that moment -- I know. I appreciate it. When that clock strikes midnight, you're going to be there. You're along the Chaopraya. Tell us what you're going to see.
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  So, before I talk about the fireworks, which are going to last for six minutes, by the way, and are going to be absolutely spectacular here at ICONSIAM, I need to explain why I'm standing in a back hallway here, an undisclosed location here at the beautiful ICONSIAM complex. It's because just behind that door behind me is where pop icon Lisa is going to be speaking with us in a matter of minutes.
 
I met some of her super fans earlier. I actually looked up, just if you added up Lisa's fans just on Instagram, her followers on Instagram, by population, it would be the 15th largest country in the world. This is how famous Lisa is, and she's here in Bangkok tonight at ICONSIAM to help everyone here ring in the new year with music, and with, as I mentioned, just a spectacular fireworks show, so spectacular, I'm at a loss for words, Kristie.
 
STOUT:  You know, it's going to be a spectacular show. I can't wait for your interview with Lisa. She's with Blackpink. She's going to have a huge year next year. She's starring in White Lotus on HBO. She's such a big talent. There's another talent that you recently talked to, especially as China gets ready to ring in 2025. You spoke with one of its biggest winter sporting stars.
 
RIPLEY:  Yes. I mean, Eileen Gu is a household name certainly in this region and really around the world for her Olympic gold, for her fashion and the fact that she's actually just still studying at Stanford and Oxford. I mean, this is the year of meeting really powerful, really incredible and inspiring young women, apparently, Lisa soon. But right now, I want you to check out my conversation that I had there in Hong Kong with Eileen Gu.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY (voice over):  She's already mastered the slopes, the style catwalks and the study halls of Stanford. At just 21 years old, Chinese-American skier and model Eileen Gu has become something of a poster child for overachievers. We catch up at the Regent Hong Kong as she passes through the city during an intense travel schedule.
 <br>[10:15:03]
 
EILEEN GU, OLYMPIC GOLD MEDALIST:  I'm going to be in five cities over the next four days. And then I'll be competing on the fifth day. So --
 
RIPLEY:  Gu's star has been on the rise since 2022 when she became the face of the Beijing Winter Olympics, becoming the youngest ever Olympic champion in freestyle skiing and gaining the nickname Snow Princess in China.
 
GU:  Thank you.
 
I was so fortunate that I got to pick the three things that I love most, sports, academics, and fashion, and just make that into my life. I already love those things. And so the fact that I've been able to get a platform while doing that makes me feel like I have a responsibility to other young women and other young people, frankly.
 
RIPLEY:  Brought up by her mom and grandmother in California, Gu says they keep her grounded.
 
GU:  My grandma always tells me to get a real job. I don't think the athlete and fashion thing --
 
RIPLEY:  The endorsements, the global platform.
 
GU:  No, not a, you know, respectable vocation for her. But I think it's good. It keeps me on my toes.
 
RIPLEY:  Eileen's mom, Yan, also travels with her everywhere.
 
People will look at you as a super mom.
 
YAN GU, MOTHER OF EILEEN GU:  I think being supportive instead of saying no to your children all the time, you say, yes. I try to give her as much independence and I support her independence as much as possible always.
 
RIPLEY:  As Gu tries to qualify for the next Winter Olympics in Italy, she's also writing a book to reflect on her life so far.
 
As you travel around the world, what surprises you the most? And where do you fit into this puzzle that you talk about?
 
GU:  I'm, you know, in a period of reflection and thinking of who I want to be, who I've become, and how I can kind of shape myself to become the woman that I want to be in the future.
 
RIPLEY:  As for New Year's resolutions, she says more sleep and taking better care of herself.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY (on camera):  I mean, just days after that interview, she competed and then qualified for the next steps towards the Olympics, doing those incredible stunts, those flips and flips on the skis. Just amazing, truly amazing, inspiring. Also her mother, Kristie, if her mother wrote a book about how to raise a child like Eileen Gu, I think a lot of parents would love to read that.
 
STOUT:  That book is a bestseller. Eileen Gu, what an incredible encounter. She is such a high flyer and yet so grounded. I love that conversation. Will Ripley joining us live from Bangkok. I'm looking forward to your talk with Lisa. Talk soon. Take care, Will.
 
RIPLEY:  Yes.
 
STOUT:  Now, our next guest, Takashi Murakami, is long been called Japan's answer to Andy Warhol. His skill of blurring the line between the commercial and fine art has made him one of the most acclaimed artists around the world. And I recently talked to him about what inspires his latest designs.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STOUT (voice over):  His colorful creations are everywhere. Prolific Japanese artist Takashi Murakami is behind Superflat, a style that combines high art and anime. At the Gagosian in London, his latest show reinvents Japanese history.
 
TAKASHI MURAKAMI, INTERNATIONAL ART STAR:  Kyoto is a capital at the moment. That's why everything is gorgeous, everything is number one.
 
STOUT:  So, what's next for one of the biggest art stars on the planet?
 
MURAKAMI:  This is the kind of the, you know, trans culture for the very old school Edo era. The painting style of thing, the limpa, and, you know, mixed with my superflat sailor (ph). So, that is, you know, my new style of thing.
 
STOUT:  Your new show is, as you said, it's heavily inspired by the drama series, Shogun. What is it about that point of time, that era that hooks you, that draws you in?
 
MURAKAMI:  That moment was a war season and also the Japan, you know, becomes the Japan itself. And the Shogun period was still moving, still chaotic situation.
 
STOUT:  You have a new collaboration coming up with Louis Vuitton. It has been two decades since it first kicked off. How is it going to be different this time around?
 
MURAKAMI:  The Louis Vuitton part two is a big thing for me. And also this collaboration came from Pietro Beccari's personal idea. That collaboration is big impact for the, you know, fashion and art, both. Because 20 years ago, just the impact for, you know, the fashion scene, the art people don't like that. But now, it's much more fit.
 
STOUT:  Takashi, thank you so much for hanging out with us here at CNN, and Happy New Year.
 
MURAKAMI:  Happy New Year.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
STOUT (on camera):  You got to see his new show in London if you can. Meanwhile, excitement is building in New York City. We are live in Times Square, where preparations for midnight are well underway.
 <br>[10:20:02]
 
Also ahead, on a more somber note, from South Korea, a very muted beginning of the New Year. Shortly before midnight there, the capital city, Seoul, held a moment of silence in memory of the nearly 180 people killed in Sunday's tragic plane crash. Then, as the New Year begins, there was a ringing of bells.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
STOUT:  Welcome back. Now, we are a little more than 30 minutes away from the New Year here in Hong Kong. Meanwhile, it is already 2025 in Japan.
 
You are looking at the New Year's Eve gala happening across the Tokyo Metropolitan Building after the city struck midnight just minutes ago. Celebratory festive images shot across the facade as fireworks light up the sky. Now, it is still early in New York City, but the excitement is palpable. It's in the air ahead of the big celebrations.
 
Brianna Keilar is there at the Marriott Marquis Hotel. And, Brianna, it's already 2025 in Tokyo, many other places across the Asia Pacific, but the party will continue until it all culminates with that crystal ball drop where you are.
 
KEILAR:  Yes, Kristie, and it's certainly fun to be watching 2025 from 2024 here in Times Square. The ball for the ball drop has been tested. The confetti has been tested. People are getting psyched up as they get ready to gather in Times Square. That hasn't started yet, but they'll be allowed in here in a few hours. We're expecting about a million people to be gathering for the big celebration.
 
And when you think about what you're going to be seeing here in New York City tonight at midnight, the confetti is so much a part of it, the background, the foreground, it just wouldn't be New Year's without it. And it is prepositioned, this confetti, in buildings all around Times Square. 3,000 pounds of confetti that is going to be hand tossed onto the crowd, 25 million pieces.
 
And these aren't all just little pieces of paper. All December, people have been able to write wishes on this confetti. So that when people are celebrating the New Year, wishes are going to be dropping down on them from the sky, which is just such a beautiful touch.
 
Behind me down in Times Square itself, Brynn Gingras is there watching the preparations. People are starting to get ready, Brynn.
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, that's right, Brianna. I can actually look up at you. You are right above me and I'm saying hello to you from the ground here in the heart of New York City, Times Square, and we've got that same view that you have of the ball there lowered. I said a little earlier, Brianna, it gets so exciting when they start raising that ball up to reveal the 2025. That's when you know the party is really getting revved up.
 
Right now, you called it. There are just preparations happening. Let me get out of the way so Jimmy can kind of give you a look at what we're seeing here on the ground. I can tell you we haven't talked I don't know too much about security every time you guys have come to me, but that is happening right now with the NYPD, with federal authorities. We've been seeing some bomb sniffing dogs going through all of these lanes in the middle of Times Square, making sure this is the most secure spot in all of the world for this huge celebration.
 
And these pens, like you said, are going to be filled with an estimated 1 million revelers come rain, come shine, come whatever weather is in store for us tonight. But I did talk to a few people who have been now ushered out into the outer areas of Times Square waiting for their chance to get into Times Square a little bit later this afternoon after the security sweeps are all finished with.
 
And I can tell you there are people from all over the world, all over the United States who just can't wait to get their front row seat to this celebration. And we are here for it, we are excited for it and you know, it's going to be a great time. Again, it doesn't matter if it's raining. Everyone is excited to usher in New Year's right here in Times Square. Brianna?
 
KEILAR:  Yes, there's nothing like it and there's nothing that people won't withstand to see it.
 
Brynn, good to see you. Thank you so much for the preview of what we're seeing down there in Times Square. We are getting ready, Kristie, here in New York. STOUT:  Brianna, I love that detail you shared, what, 3,000 pounds of confetti is going to rain down along with the rain in New York City tonight, but on each slip of paper, a New Year's Eve wish. That is poetry, my friend.
 
Brianna, thank you so much. We'll check in with you again soon.
 
Now, let's get back to Tokyo where Hanako Montgomery standing by. She has been bringing in the New Year. They are already in the New Year. Hanako, how's it been? How is Japan welcoming 2025?
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
MONTGOMERY:  Well, Kristie, let me tell you, the Japanese know how to spend the New Year right.