Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump-Harris September 10 Debate May Delay Due to Microphone Rules; Russia Launched Fresh Wave of Strikes to Ukraine; American Tourist Died in a Collapsed Glacier in Iceland; Arizona Judge Sets Election Subversion Trial Date to January 2026; Congressional Task Force Visited Butler, Pennsylvania Where the Assassination Attempt of Donald Trump was Held; Football Manager Sven-Goran Erikkson Dies. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired August 27, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Christina Macfarlane. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR: I'm Max Foster. Just ahead, are mics on or off? The Trump and Harris teams squabble over whether to leave microphones muted during the presidential debate just two weeks out from the highly-anticipated event. 
 
Russia unleashes a new wave of deadly strikes on Ukraine a day after Moscow launched one of its largest drone and missile attacks of the war so far. 
 
And cited, fined or even jailed. San Francisco's aggressive approach to dealing with the city's homeless population. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from London, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Max Foster and Christina Macfarlane. 
 
MACFARLANE: Exactly 10 weeks from today, Americans will head to the polls to pick their next president. Democratic nominee Kamala Harris, was off to the campaign trail Monday. But later this week, she and running mate Tim Walz will begin a bustle in the battleground state of Georgia. 
 
FOSTER: And Republican nominee Donald Trump visited the swing state of Michigan on Monday, which he won in 2016 and lost four years later. Trump told the National Guard Association that he intends to restore world peace before going on to make more baseless claims about his opponents. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We're going to make American democracy great again. We're going to bring it back. My opponent, Kamala Harris and Tim Walz, are promising the exact opposite. They want endless war, open borders, voting rights and free healthcare for illegal aliens. This fight is no longer between Democrats and Republicans. This is a fight between communism and freedom. It's a very serious fight. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER:  Well, while on the campaign trail, Trump also raised questions about whether he'll go through with a presidential debate against Harris, scheduled for September the 10th. 
 
MACFARLANE: He used the phrase, if there's a debate in the middle of some remarks about immigration. CNN's Kristen Holmes picks up the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The debate over debates continues both campaigns. The Harris and the Trump campaign appear to be at an impasse, this time over whether or not the mics will be muted while the other candidate is speaking at that September 10th ABC debate.
 
Now, originally, Donald Trump and President Joe Biden had agreed to terms that were similar to that of the CNN debate, that first debate, in which the mics would be muted, as we saw at the CNN debate, while the other candidate was talking.
 
Now, the Harris campaign is saying that they want those mics unmuted. Now, Trump's team says that's not what we agreed to, but a lot of this here is just posturing as each side tries to figure out what's best for their candidate. 
 
However, Donald Trump himself talked about this while he was in Virginia commemorating the third anniversary of the Afghanistan withdrawal, and he seemed to essentially undercut his own campaign. Take a listen. 
 
TRUMP: So we're thinking about it. We're thinking about it. They also want to change the rules, you know, the deal was we keep the same rules down, all of a sudden. They want to make a change in the rules because she can't answer questions. 
 
HOLMES: And you're going to hear a lot of posturing, a lot of spin. For example, I will remind you that it was just three weeks ago when Kamala Harris was brought into the top of the ticket when Donald Trump backed out. Kamala Harris' team saying, you can't do that. It doesn't matter who's at the top of the ticket. You already agreed to the debate.
 
Donald Trump's team saying, no, everything has changed. Obviously now, we are almost in a complete opposite situation in which Donald Trump's team is saying, we want to agree to those original rules that we already agreed to with President Joe Biden. And Kamala Harris is saying, nope, I'm at the top of the ticket now. Things have changed. Again, all of this posturing, all of this, the campaign's trying to
 
 make sure that their own candidate looks the best when they take the stage. The big question, of course, will they take the stage at that September 10th debate? One thing we know is leading up to that, Donald Trump's campaign says that he is going to be pounding the pavement. It's going to be quote, unquote, "Trump on stairway. They say he's ramping up his travel. He's going to be in battleground states." We have heard this before. We will wait and see if it actually comes to fruition. 
 
Kristen Holmes, CNN, Detroit, Michigan. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Natasha Lindstaedt is professor of government at the University of Essex. She's with us from Colchester in England. It's fascinating, isn't it, this debate about the mic? It seems so small, some would say trivial, but it's quite defining in a way. 
 <br>[03:05:02]
 
NATASHA LINDSTAEDT, PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT, UNIVERSITY OF ESSEX: It seems to be, I mean, this was the rules that Biden wanted because he was worried that he would get tripped up if Trump kept interrupting him. And that's the way Trump tends to debate. He overpowers people, he interrupts a lot, and it makes it difficult to get anything out there. 
 
So for Biden, he thought that this was going to benefit him. Of course, we all know how that debate went. This actually made Trump appear less obnoxious. He wasn't interrupting. He couldn't really interrupt. And he stayed on message better. 
 
For Kamala Harris, what her campaign is saying is that they want the American public to see Trump in the way he really is. And he's someone who just is going to interrupt, who's going to go off on tangents, who can't stay focused, who's probably going to engage in personal attacks. So she's trying to keep the mics on and Trump is bewildered by all these different changes going on. And one moment he's saying he's not going to debate, then he's going to say he's going to debate only on Fox News. Then he says he doesn't want to debate on ABC News at all. 
 
It would be a mistake, of course, for him to not debate, even though I do think Kamala Harris will do very well against him because she knows a lot more about policy. But he's going to look bad if he decides to back out of this. I think his aides know that, but I think he's in a corner here, and that's why you see him rambling on and discussing different topics and sometimes even contradicting himself. 
 
MACFARLANE: Yeah, and I can understand, you know, the Harris camp thinking that this would be a good opportunity for Trump to essentially sabotage himself. But is it also something that might play to Harris' strength as well? I mean, I think back to that debate with Vice President Pence in 2020, where she had that viral moment in asking him to pause his speaking. I think she said, Mr. Vice President, I'm speaking. I'm speaking. That was the sort of viral moment for her that really kind of put her in the spotlight. Is there a chance, an opportunity for her in this as well to get her personality across with the mics open? 
 
LINDSTAEDT: That's a really good point. She's obviously a trained prosecutor. We've seen how strong she is in these types of instances where she's questioning people, where she can interrupt and she commands the stage well. If she is speaking, she's gonna make it known that she is speaking and that she's going to continue to make her point.
 
She's not going to be easily rattled by Trump's interruption. So I think she thinks that having this hot mic is going to play more to her strengths and is going to showcase Trump not really being able to focus very, very much and interrupting so much that he's going to turn off many of these undecided American voters. 
 
FOSTER: Well, what do you make of this sort of attack line that's developing calling Harris a communist? Probably, you know, might resonate with his, you know, base. But how do you think that works in the wider electorate that he's trying to pull in at the moment? 
 
LINDSTAEDT: That just sounds like an attack that's just way too extreme. People know that she's not a communist. Some of her policies are in line with communist policy. So you're right. This is just something that plays to the base, something that ramps them up. It gets them excited. Maybe it helps him increase his campaign funds and he's way behind in campaign funds, in raising campaign money. 
 
She had just, since Biden dropped out, she's gained 540 million and he had collected about 139 million in July. So he's fairly well behind. So he's trying to ramp up his base by saying these types of things. But it's not something that undecided Americans or those that are moderate really believe in because there's no evidence of that. 
 
MACFARLANE: And let's talk for a moment about the campaigning that's due to get underway in the key battleground states this week. We just mentioned there that Walz and Harris are gonna be having a bus tour in the battleground state of Georgia. How crucial really is Georgia now to Harris and how much more competitive is it for her than perhaps it might've been under the Biden administration? 
 
LINDSTAEDT: So Georgia is way more competitive than it was before. When Biden was running, he was down by four or five points in most of the polling in Georgia to Trump. When Harris took over the ticket, she was able to galvanize more voters, more younger voters, more African- American voters. 
 
And this, of course, has also just energized the campaign in Georgia. So she doesn't necessarily have to win Georgia, but winning Georgia would help if she didn't win one of those really important states in the Midwest, like Michigan, like Wisconsin, like Pennsylvania. So by having a win in Georgia, and of course she's gonna be going after other states as well, like Arizona, like Nevada, like North Carolina. 
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
Some of these states we didn't think were in play for the Democrats because they were just too far behind, but we're seeing that she can challenge Trump in some of these battleground states that prior to Biden dropping out, he was actually ahead by four or five points. 
 
FOSTER: In terms of her success in mobilizing her base, the polling does suggest that she's becoming, she's got a wider support than Biden. But she has got a lot of support amongst groups who don't traditionally actually go out and vote. They don't register to vote. Is there any evidence that she's making progress there? You know, she cannot just convince people that she's the right president, but also can get them to vote. 
 
LINDSTAEDT: Well, we're seeing that a third of the donors that have donated to her campaign are first time donors. You know, tends to be younger voters or could be people who just weren't that interested in politics before. 
 
So we have a lot of people who seem to want to donate to her campaign. And you would assume that those are people that are also going to vote. But this race is incredibly close in spite of all the momentum, all the publicity, all the good publicity that her campaign has had. There are still going to be millions and millions of Americans that are going to vote for Trump. It's going to be really, really close down to the wire in some of these battleground states. 
 
And they're fighting not just for their base to get their base to vote, but for still some of these undecided voters, some of these people who might have voted for Robert Kennedy. They're fighting for those voters as well. So there's a lot still to do here, but I think it is important to mention that Harris is getting important endorsements from Republicans, from 200 former aides of Republicans of George W. Bush, Mitt Romney, of John McCain, and also Trump doesn't even have the endorsement of his former cabinet members. Only four out of 44 cabinet members have endorsed him. 
 
So he's seeing a hemorrhaging of support from key Republicans, and she's grabbing those, and she's hoping that this is also going to help show that she's got this big, wide network and tent of people who want to endorse her campaign, who want to join the campaign, and who want to support her. 
 
MACFARLANE: Yeah, and this after we saw a number of key Republicans as well come out and speak at the DNC just last week. And Natasha Lindstaedt, we appreciate your thoughts. Thank you. 
 
LINDSTAEDT: Thanks for having me. 
 
MACFARLANE: Now Ukraine is assessing the damage from another night of deadly Russian attacks across the country. Authorities report at least five people have been killed in strikes on central and southeastern Ukraine. Rescue workers are still searching the rubble at a hotel where two people are still unaccounted for. 
 
FOSTER: Follows a major missile and drone strike on Monday, targeting Ukraine's energy infrastructure that claimed at least seven lives. Rolling blackouts are now in effect for many regions across the country. The Russian Defense Ministry claims it hit all designated targets, including storage sites for weapons sent to Ukraine by Western countries. 
 
MACFARLANE: Well, Ukraine has been bracing for an attack for weeks after its forces launched an incursion into Russia's Kursk region. And now Kyiv is once again asking its allies for permission to strike deeper into Russia. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Every leader, every partner of ours knows what strong decisions are needed to end this war and to end it justly. There should be no restrictions on the range of weapons for Ukraine, while terrorists have no such restrictions. Defenders of life should face no restrictions on weapons, while Russia uses all kinds of its own weapons, as well as Shahed drones and ballistic missiles from North Korea. The United States, the United Kingdom, France and other partners have the power to help us stop terror. We need decisions. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: And Salma joins us here. It's interesting that he's focusing on his efforts to go into Russia, but is the Russian response that we're seeing now in direct response to what's happening in Russia, do you think, or is this always part of the plan? 
 
SALMA ABDELZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We can't always draw a direct parallel, but we can absolutely say that Russia has been saying we will respond to what has happened in Kursk. 
 
These types of attacks have been going on for some time. Since the beginning of the conflict, Russia has targeted Ukraine's energy infrastructure in an attempt to essentially weaponize power, water, daily life things that everyone needs. 
 
This is different in that President Zelenskyy said yesterday this is the most massive air assault the country has seen since the start of the war that gives you a sense of the scale. And now we're seeing it occur for a second day in a row. 
 
And what concerns President Zelenskyy is there's very little he can do to stop this. Russia just fires these missiles. It fires these drones. 
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
Ukraine can, of course, attempt to take them out with its air defense systems, which it does, but some will always get through. 
 
So what is the solution? President Zelenskyy says, allow me to do two things and I can fix this. The first, allow me to strike inside Russia with long range missiles. The second, allow me to use these air defense capabilities right up to Russian airspace. You can see why that would make any Western leader cringe hearing
 
 those two things because immediately that makes you wonder, does that escalate the conflict with Russia? 
 
So he's in a tight space. He needs Western allies to take a step further, potentially aggravating Putin even more. 
 
Otherwise, he continues to take on these air assaults from Russia. 
 
MACFARLANE: So what are the chances of the White House of Western allies responding to this call to be able to strike deeper into Russia? And is that actually tactically the right move? 
 
ABDELAZIZ: It's been a sliding scale. If you look at the beginning of this conflict, when the U.S. allies were saying, we won't even give you tanks. We won't even give you long-range missiles at all. 
 
Now we're much deeper into this conflict, and we've seen the scale slide and slide and slide. And now we have Ukrainians fighting inside Russia. 
 
So I would say that seems impossible, maybe a year ago, or maybe when this conflict started. But now I would say anything is possible because the West is determined to push Putin back and they continue to change that target in terms of those red lines. 
 
FOSTER: Ok. Salma, thank you so much.
 
MACFARLANE: Now a group tour in Iceland goes horribly wrong. A deadly ice cave collapse and fears about the impact of climate change when we return. 
 
FOSTER: Plus more Israeli strikes reported across Gaza as negotiators try to hammer out a deal for a ceasefire. The details just ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: SpaceX has pushed the launch of its Polaris Dawn mission to Wednesday after finding a helium leak in ground equipment. SpaceX posted an update on X late on Monday evening saying teams were taking a look at the piece called the Quick Disconnect Umbilical. Chrissy's going to describe exactly what that is. Both the crew, Dragon capsule and Falcon 9 rocket are in good condition according to the post. 
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, not particularly a space expert, but I am learning fast. The five-day Polaris Dawn mission will attempt the first ever commercial spacewalk. A crew of four civilians are heading to the highest altitude of any crewed space mission since the Apollo program ended more than 50 years ago. 
 
An American tourist is dead following the collapse of a cave inside a glacier in Iceland. He was part of a group exploring the cave. FOSTER: The incident raises new fears for the safety of this popular
 
 tourist activity as the earth's temperatures rise. John Vause has the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): One of Iceland's most popular tourist attractions now the site of tragedy. An ice cave in the Breidamerkurjokull glacier collapsed on Sunday, killing one American, injuring another. The couple was touring the glacier in southern Iceland when disaster happened. The collapse prompted a major search for two additional tourists believed trapped under the ice. 
 
SVEINN KRISTJAN RUNARSSON, CHIEF SUPERINTENDENT, SOUTH ICELAND POLICE (through translator): It's difficult to get equipment to the area. The rescue missions are therefore mainly done by hand, digging and breaking the ice. So yes, these are very challenging circumstances. 
 
VAUSE (voice-over): But no one was found and police have since confirmed there have been only 23 people on the tour, not 25. The collapse, though, is now raising questions about the potential role of human-caused climate change. 
 
Iceland is warming roughly three times faster than the rest of the planet because of the burning of fossil fuels and carbon emissions. And the renowned Breidamerkurjokull glacier has been melting since 1930, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. 
 
Tourism brings in billions of dollars to Iceland's economy. And tourism officials there are now said to be drafting a new report on glacier tours in the wake of the collapse. As questions linger about their safety, especially with global temperatures on the rise. 
 
John Vause, CNN, Atlanta. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Now the captain of that luxury super yacht that sank off the coast of Sicily is facing a manslaughter investigation. 
 
FOSTER: Italian prosecutors announced the investigation on Monday. CNN's Barbie Nadeau has more from Rome. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: The captain of the luxury yacht that went down in a storm on August 19th off the coast of Sicily killing seven people has been named in a manslaughter and negligent shipwreck investigation into the tragedy. 
 
James Cutfield, a 51-year-old sailor from New Zealand with at least eight years of experience on luxury yachts in the Mediterranean Sea, has been advised to secure a defense lawyer, according to the prosecutor's office. Though he is not in custody and being named in an investigation does not imply guilt. No other crew members have been named yet, but they are all being
 
 asked not to leave the country. Seven people, including British tech titan Mike Lynch and his 18-year-old daughter, died when the ship sank. 15 people, including nine crew members, survived. 
 
The investigation will now look at whether the yacht was secured for the storm, which had been predicted in weather advisories to mariners the night before, and whether the crew adequately warned the passengers of their imminent danger. 
 
The cost to raise the ship, which will then be examined by investigators, falls on the ship's owner, which is a company belonging to Lynch's wife. Autopsies on all seven victims will be carried out in Palermo this week. 
 
Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Rome. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Negotiators still meeting in Cairo on a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal after some progress was reported during weekend discussions. A U.S. official says the talks will continue for at least the next few days and all sides, including Hamas, are represented in the discussions focusing on specific details of the deal. 
 
MACFARLANE: But inside Gaza, there's been no let up in the fighting. The Palestinian civil defense says at least 16 people were killed in Israeli strikes Monday night across the enclave including in Gaza City and in central Gaza's al-Maghazi refugee camp. A baby and two children were among the victims. 
 <br>[03:25:07]
 
FOSTER: And a senior U.N. official says aid deliveries were paused on Monday because of security risks after Israel ordered new evacuations in Deir al-Bala in central Gaza. 
 
Meanwhile, as tensions flare in the region, a White House official says the U.S. continues to assume Iran is prepared to attack Israel directly. This comes after the exchange of rocket fire over the weekend between Israel and Iran's most powerful proxy, which is Hezbollah. 
 
MACFARLANE: Iran has vowed a response over last month's assassination of Hamas political leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran, a sentiment echoed again by a top Iranian military general. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAJ. GEN. MOHAMMAD BAGHERI, ISLAMIC REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS (through translator): Revenge for this criminal act, whether by the resistance axis or by the Islamic Republic of Iran, is certain. The Islamic Republic of Iran will not fall into media games and provocations and will decide how and when its revolutionary action will be taken. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) MACFARLANE: Now CNN's Paula Hancocks is live for us in Abu Dhabi this hour. And Paula, it's clear here that Iran still sees the revenge of the killing of Ismail Haniyeh as something quite separate to the retaliation we saw from Hezbollah over the weekend. 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well that's right and it's something we've heard from Iranian officials over recent weeks saying that it will be the timing of their choosing. We've heard from Biden administration officials saying that they believe that they are postured and ready to carry out some kind of attack against Israel and of course it was two separate attacks that we're talking about here. You had a top Hezbollah commander which is why we saw -- what we saw in the early hours of Sunday morning Israel calling it a preemptive attack trying to prevent a Hezbollah strike but Hezbollah then firing hundreds of rockets against Israel. 
 
And then of course you do have the top Hamas official who was assassinated in Tehran, that one has not been admitted by Israel but many point the finger at Israel and so they are two separate events. 
 
What we are hearing from both sides as well though is that this is not connected to these ongoing talks, the potential ceasefire and hostage talks in Gaza. Now we have heard from an official source, from John Kirby, from the National Security Commission, that they will continue these talks for the next few days in Cairo. It's at a working level. 
 
But according to one U.S. official familiar with these talks, there was progress made over the weekend. And that's despite the fact that we saw those significant strikes between Israel and Hezbollah. Hezbollah has also said that this is a separate matter. 
 
We've heard from this U.S. official that they are now discussing the nuts and bolts, was his words. Also saying that they are discussing final details, including names of Palestinian prisoners that would be potentially released within the first phase of this three-phase deal. 
 
Also cautioning though that it doesn't necessarily mean that a final negotiation and agreement is imminent. 
 
MACFARLANE: Yep, Paula Hancocks with the latest there live. Thank you. 
 
Now, U.S. lawmakers investigating the assassination attempt on Donald Trump get a firsthand look at the crime scene, why one member of the task force says being there made all the difference. Next on CNN. 
 
FOSTER: Plus, the founder of Telegram faces charges for criminal activity taking place on his messaging app. That's just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: With 10 weeks to go until election day, Donald Trump and Kamala Harris are stepping up their campaign efforts. Harris and her running mate, Tim Walz, begin a bus tour across the battleground state of Georgia on Wednesday, while Donald Trump continues his blitz of so- called blue wall states with trips to Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania this week. 
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR: Trump implied on Monday that he may not debate Kamala Harris as scheduled on September 10th. He complained that her campaign's push to have microphones not be silenced during the debate is a violation of agreed upon rules. 
 
Meanwhile, a judge in Arizona has set a trial date for the Trump allies accused of trying to subvert the 2020 election. 
 
FOSTER: Now they've been charged with criminal conspiracy, but their trial won't be happening anytime soon. CNN's Zachary Cohen reports from Phoenix. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN REPORTER: January 2026, that's when a judge says the 2020 election subversion case here in Arizona will go to trial, officially setting a date during the first hearing as part of this ongoing criminal case. Now that's about six months later than prosecutors had asked the judge to set a trial. They wanted a trial to take place in May or June of next year, but ultimately this means that the case here in Arizona is the first and only case that revolves around the 2020 election that has a trial date on the calendar. 
 
Now this case does revolve around the 2020 election and what prosecutors say is an alleged conspiracy to overturn the election results on Donald Trump's behalf by using these fake electors from the state of Arizona and other battleground states to eventually push Vice President Mike Pence to upend Joe Biden's legitimate electoral victory. That was ultimately unsuccessful but it set off a wave of criminal prosecutions both at the state and federal level. 
 
Now only a month before the 2024 election. This case in Arizona is the only one that appears set to go to trial, albeit four years, more than four years after the alleged criminal activity took place. 
 
Now I want to remind folks that among those charged include Trump's former White House Chief of Staff, Mark Meadows, his former personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, and several other high profile names, as well as the individuals who served as fake electors here in Arizona in 2020. Those are prominent Republicans in this state who are once again supporting Donald Trump in his 2024 bid for the White House. Now Donald Trump was here in Arizona, again a key swing state just days ago. 
 
Meanwhile, his several closest allies in court today trying to defend themselves from the criminal charges from the state's attorney general. We're ultimately going to have to wait and see how this case plays out in the coming months. But again, 2020 election remains on the top of the mind for many in Trump's orbit and people here in Arizona. Meanwhile, Trump continuing his bid for the White House in 2024. 
 
Zachary Cohen, CNN. Phoenix. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: The U.S. Justice Department is trying to reopen the classified documents case against Donald Trump after a judge appointed by the former president himself threw it out. 
 
MACFARLANE: Judge Eileen Cannon claimed that the Justice Department didn't have the authority to appoint special counsels. So Special Counsel Jack Smith submitted a brief to an appeals court arguing that her decision lacked merit and set a dangerous precedent. 
 <br>[03:35:03]
 
FOSTER: Well Trump was charged last year with several counts of mishandling sensitive government documents taken from the White House at the end of his administration. He's also facing several obstruction charges. 
 
Members of the Congressional Task Force investigating the attempted assassination of former President Donald Trump got an up-close look at the scene of the crime on Monday. 
 
MACFARLANE: Lawmakers toured the site of last month's rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, where an armed man opened fire on Trump as he spoke to supporters. Members of the bipartisan Task Force are promising to get to the bottom of what went wrong that day, Danny Freeman has the latest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: There were really two primary goals from the members of Congress who came here to the site of the assassination attempt of former President Donald Trump in Butler, Pennsylvania. 
 
The first was to demonstrate bipartisanship. There were both Democrats and Republicans here to take a tour of this former rally site, and they're a part of an official congressional task force that has been tasked with investigating exactly what went wrong leading up to this particular rally, and also look forward to make sure that an incident like this can never happen again. 
 
And these lawmakers emphasized that there is no place for political violence in this democracy that too very bipartisan in nature. But the second goal was to demonstrate that they're also taking this investigation very seriously. 
 
Today we saw lawmakers not only tour the Butler Farm show as a whole and also go to that specific area where former President Trump was speaking at that rally on July 13th, but we also saw lawmakers actually climb on top of the AGR building where Thomas Matthew Crooks, the shooter in this incident ultimately opened fire at former president Donald Trump. Some of the members of Congress actually remarked that it was the first time they'd been here to this site since that shooting and they were stunned at just how close Thomas Matthew Crooks was able to get to former president Trump on that day. 
 
Now I want you to take a listen to how one member of Congress characterized why it was so important to come here actually and look at this site on the ground in person. 
 
REP. MIKE KELLY (R-PA): It's the difference between day and night. When you're actually here on this surface, when you're actually walking in these grounds, when you're actually going to the building when you're actually up on the roof, when you're actually looking at where did we have people positioned, where was the shooter positioned, if you can actually look at that right now in person, then all the rest of the pictures right away, it's like, okay, I got it. 
 
REP. JASON CROW (D-CO): We have debates, we're going to have tough debates and we're in the midst of an election cycle right now, and all of us are going to have those tough debates. But in the United States of America, you do not get to attempt to assassinate our elected officials and our candidates. It's unacceptable. 
 
FREEMAN: But make no mistake, this is really just one step of this larger investigation by this task force. The lawmakers on the task force have until mid-December before they have to issue a final report and crucially recommendations on how to move forward again to prevent anything like this from ever happening again. 
 
Danny Freeman, CNN, Butler, Pennsylvania. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: French President Emmanuel Macron says the arrest of the Telegram founder, Pavel Durov, was, quote, "in no way a political decision." Supporters of the Russian-born CEO says he's a political prisoner and that his arrest is an attack on free speech. 
 
MACFARLANE: French officials are quick to shoot that down. The Paris public prosecutor says Durov is facing 12 separate charges as part of a broad investigation into criminal activity on the popular messaging app. Alex Marquardt has this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (VOICE- OVER):  He's been called the Mark Zuckerberg of Russia. Tech billionaire Pavel Durov, the creator of the globally popular messaging app, Telegram. 
 
PAVEL DUROV, CEO, TELEGRAM: 12 billion messages delivered daily. 
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): Now in custody in France after French police arrested him at a Paris airport. French authorities say that Durov's arrest is part of an investigation of charges that Telegram was allegedly complicit in aiding money laundering, drug trafficking, and distributing child pornography. 
 
French prosecutors also say that Durov refused to comply with demands to help intercept potentially illicit communications. In a statement, the company said, Durov has nothing to hide. It is absurd to claim that a platform or its owner are responsible for abuse of that platform. 
 
DUROV: I truly believe that privacy of our users and their trust to us and our responsibility for them is the most important thing in our business. 
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): Durov was flying to Paris from Azerbaijan, where Russian President Vladimir Putin also visited last week. The Kremlin has denied that Putin and Durov met. 
 
Durov had also created the Russian app Vkontakte, known as Russia's Facebook. He fled the country in 2014 after refusing to turn over user data from the app to the Russian government. Russia tried to ban Telegram in 2018, but lifted the ban in 2020. 
 
With 900 million users worldwide, Telegram is used by everyday people, governments and companies to send official messages. But the app's encryption also makes it popular among criminals and terrorists. 
 <br>[03:40:01]
 
In France, it was found on the phones of the terrorists who attacked the Bataclan concert hall in Paris. 
 
DUROV: They were also using iPhones and Android phones and microchips. Kind of misleading to say that we were responsible or any other tech company is responsible for that. 
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): Durov's arrest has revived questions about the responsibilities of social media companies to moderate their content and assist law enforcement versus protecting their users' privacy and freedom of speech. 
 
French President Emmanuel Macron said in a statement on social media, France is deeply committed to freedom of expression and communication, and that the arrest is in no way a political decision. 
 
Alex Marquardt, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Now, British rockers Oasis are getting back together for a reunion tour. The band posted this video on its website announcing tour dates next year in the U.K. and Ireland. 
 
FOSTER: Brothers Noel and Liam Gallagher, feuded for decades and finally split in 2009. Now the pair behind hits like "Wonderwall", "Champagne Supernova", "Supersonic", they didn't even name your favorite, appear to have buried the hatchet. They're promising to announce tour dates on continents outside of Europe later in the year. They've already got all the tour dates up for the U.K. over the summer next year. 
 
MACFARLANE: Are you mad for it, Max? 
 
FOSTER: I am. Well, I think it's going to be a bit like the Taylor Swift tour. It's going to be a cultural moment. 
 
MACFARLANE: Cultural phenomenon. Yeah.
 
FOSTER: I just, I mean, as Maura said, one of our producers, I mean, will they, you know, they've got this rule.
 
MACFARLANE: It adds to the tension, doesn't it? The relationship between the brothers. 
 
FOSTER: Will they actually get there? 
 
MACFARLANE: Yes. 
 
FOSTER: The suggestion is they're doing it for the money, partly. 
 
MACFARLANE: I mean, who isn't these days? But frankly, I'll take it whichever way it comes. I think it's going to be quite a moment. And they've got a number of tour dates, right? 
 
FOSTER: Yes. 
 
MACFARLANE: Just announced, actually announced about an hour ago. So go online, get your ticket. 
 
FOSTER: I'm just wondering how big they are amongst the youth. 
 
MACFARLANE: Do people care about Oasis these days or is it just our generation? Millennials. Well, I'm a millennial, so no offense, Max. 
 
FOSTER: I know, but it's sort of across our bit, but does it go any younger? 
 
MACFARLANE: Yes. Tell us. Are you bothered about Oasis coming back? We certainly are, and we'll be right back after this short break. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Welcome back. San Francisco is cracking down on homeless encampments after California Governor Gavin Newsom issued an executive order last month calling on local governments to dismantle them. 
 
FOSTER: Earlier this month Newsom said he will start to redirect money from cities that don't show quote "demonstrable results in doing so." Now San Francisco's mayor is taking an aggressive approach to getting the unhoused off the street. 
 
CNN's Nick Watson, Nick Watt even reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK WATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You gotta go? But you know where you're gonna go? Okay, okay, okay. 
 
We're in the Mission District. It's a little after 7am. 
 
Is this the first time you've been involved in one of these sweeps? 
 
YOLANDA, UNHOUSED SAN FRANCISCAN: No, no, no. This is the first time they've been so quiet and nice. 
 
WATT: Do you think you'll be in a shelter tonight? 
 
YOLANDA: Well, let's hope yes. 
 
WATT: The Supreme Court ruled that cities can now cite, fine or jail these people even if they have nowhere else to go. 
 
MAYOR LONDON BREED (D), SAN FRANCISCO: We have the ability to now enforce the law. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Mayor London Breed introduced what she calls a very aggressive strategy. They issued around 25 citations in the first two weeks. 
 
WATT: You're criminalizing something that a lot of people can't help. They have no other choice. 
 
BREED: And that would be the case if we weren't offering people a place to go inside. 
 
WATT: They haven't offered you a shelter? 
 
UNKNOWN: They said there's no opening for a shelter right now. There's no beds. 
 
WATT (voice-over): The city says no one from this morning sweep ended up in a shelter. Not one. 
 
WATT: So this is the afternoon sweep. We're in Soma, south of market. The issue is, this is the 34th time the city has swept this area this year alone. 
 
WATT (voice-over): More than 4,000 people live on San Francisco streets. There are fewer than 4,000 shelter beds and most nights they're near full with a waitlist of over 100. 
 
WATT: Are these guys offering you a shelter bed? Is that what's going on? 
 
FROSTY, UNHOUSED SAN FRANCISCAN: Hey, he is. 
 
WATT: He's offering you a shelter bed? 
 
FROSTY: Yeah. 
 
WATT: So what are you going to do? Are you going to take it? 
 
FROSTY: Yeah, I'm going to take it. But you know what? If it's something where it's typical life, I won't do it, man. I won't do it. I stayed in prison 20, 23 years. Do you really think I want to be closed up in a room with bars and (expletive) in it? No, I don't think so. I'd rather sleep outside. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Since the Supreme Court's decision, cities and towns in states across the country are now proposing, passing and enforcing anti-camping laws. Across California, state authorities started sweeping in campus. 
 
UNKNOWN: I'm here on behalf of 40 million Californians that are fed up. I'm here because I'm one of them. 
 
WATT (voice-over): But more than 50 academics told the Supreme Court there's no evidence that criminalizing homelessness works. 
 
WATT: In fact there's a lot of evidence that it's counterproductive. 
 
BREED: Well what we want to be able to do is use the penalties as a way to get people to commit to going indoors. That's part of our solution. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Chris, just visiting here at Jesse and Sick, got a place to live after a similar sweep. 
 
WATT: So it can work, this system. 
 
CHRIS, UNHOUSED SAN FRANCISCAN: Absolutely, if you just have to get the documents in order. 
 
WATT (voice-over): But --  
 
CHRIS: Tragedies happen in these sweeps. A lot of people lose everything, things that they can't replace. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Many advocates for the homeless oppose this new strategy. 
 
WATT: What does this do to actually solve the root problem here? 
 
UNKNOWN: It doesn't. It makes the root problem worse. You know, when folks lose their paperwork, you know, get cited and they can't pay the fines, they don't make it to court, they get a warrant, they get kicked off of their public housing wait list. 
 
WATT: So I came back here to Jesse and Sick three days later. The unhoused people are back, the police are back, the city is back. 
 
You've spent a lot of money from the city sweeping that same street. To me, that is the definition of madness. 
 
BREED: But what I'm saying to you is the next option that we have for people who are refusing what we're offering is we will be citing and you'll maybe in the next couple months take a look at our data and see whether or not this is working and if it's working will continue if it's not we need to pivot and to try something else. 
 
WATT: What's your plan, where you going to go? 
 
CARMEN, UNHOUSED SAN FRANCISCAN: Probably around the corner.
 
WATT: Around the corner and then come back. 
 
CARMEN: Yeah. Later after they finish.
 
WATT: The mayor concedes that homelessness has gotten out of control in San Francisco and elsewhere around the country and also that San Francisco has become a destination. 
 <br>[03:49:58]
 
Now, she is going to restrict the services that have made San Francisco a destination and she's also offering anybody from out of town who is unhoused a bus ticket back to where they came from. So far, about 100 people have taken up that offer. 
 
Nick Watt, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Now his managerial career spanned more than four decades, including a history-making stint as the coach of England's national team. Remembering Sven-Goran Eriksson when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Sven-Goran Eriksson, the first non-Englishman to coach England's national football team, has died after a long illness. 
 
FOSTER: He worked with superstars David Beckham, Wayne Rooney, many others during England's golden generation. CNN's Don Riddell has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: Tributes have been pouring in from all over the world today for the late Swedish football manager Sven-Goran Eriksson. His family say that he passed away peacefully at the age of 76. Eriksson revealed in January that he'd been diagnosed with terminal cancer and given a year to live. He's most famous for becoming England's first foreign manager, leading the Three Lions to the quarterfinals of the 2002 and 2006 World Cup tournaments. 
 <br>[03:55:08]
 
As a club manager with the likes of Gothenburg, Benfica and Lazio, he won 18 trophies. 
 
Since going public with his illness, Eriksson was warmly received at many of his former clubs and he was even able to manage the Liverpool Legends team for a day. He'd said that Liverpool was a team he'd always wanted to manage. He was a lifelong fan. 
 
He bravely lived with his cancer and he told CNN earlier this year that he was grateful for all the love he was feeling. SVAN-GORAN ERIKSSON, FOOTBALL MANAGER AND FORMER HEAD COACH OF ENGLAND
 
 NATIONAL TEAM: That was fantastic, very, very nice and beautiful, of course. And I'm a little bit lucky. They telling me how good I was when I steal a life. Normally it's after a funeral, do you hear that? 
 
RIDDELL: In a recently broadcast documentary about his life, Eriksson spoke about what would be the end. He said, I hope you will remember me as a positive guy trying to do everything he could do. Don't be sorry. Smile. Take care of yourself and your life and live it. Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: You've called it a poison chalice, the job. 
 
MACFARLANE: It is perhaps one of the hardest jobs in sports, isn't it? The manager of the England football team. But he did it with such poise and class and style. And I'm glad that is how people are remembering him as the legend that he was to English football and football in general. So sad to hear of his passing yesterday. 
 
However, I am excited because the U.S. Open is underway and there was a star-studded beginning to the championships yesterday with defending champions Coco Gauff and Novak Djokovic leading off the competition in the final Grand Slam of the year. Gauff opened her defense with a crack of her crown with a powerful 6-2, 6-0 win over France's Varvara Grachieva to reach the second round of the competition. 
 
FOSTER: World number two Novak Djokovic beat Moldova's Radu Albot in the first round in straight sets. Djokovic is looking to become the first player to win 25 Grand Slam titles with another U.S. Open win. 
 
MACFARLANE: Djokovic for the win this year I think. 
 
FOSTER: Thanks for joining us. I'm Max Foster. 
 
MACFARLANE: I'm Christina Macfarlane. We'll be back in the next hour with another edition of "CNN Newsroom." Stay tuned.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)