Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Changes Coming for Instagram; Annual Celebration of Nomadic Culture; Inspiring Story JoAnn Becker Traveling the World Against All Odds. Aired 4- 4:10a ET

Aired September 18, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey everyone, hope you`re having an awesome day. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. We`ve got your 10 minutes of news for the day 
 
 where I tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. It`s Your Word Wednesday, so stay alert for one of your words, and let`s get straight to 
 
 some headlines. 
 
We start with some major changes coming for teens on Instagram. The social media app announced it`s implementing new teen account settings, all in an 
 
 effort to protect younger users from online dangers on its platform. The new rules will automatically make millions of teen accounts private on the 
 
 app. Teen accounts will be placed in the strictest messaging settings, where they can only get messages and be tagged or mentioned by people they 
 
 are already connected to.
 
Teen users will also receive time limit reminders, nudging them to leave the app after spending one hour on it each day. And their accounts will 
 
 default to sleep mode between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. 
 
Also, the most restrictive settings will also apply to content control for teen accounts. Types of sensitive content teens can see on their Explore 
 
 page and in Reels will be limited.
 
This teen accounts settings update will apply to all users under the age of 18. 16- and 17-year-olds will be able to manually change the app back to 
 
 their preferred settings, but 13- to 15-year-olds will need to get a parent`s approval to make any sort of changes. These major changes to how 
 
 minors have access to Instagram are coming years after a trove of insider documents known as the Facebook Papers drew attention to the risks for 
 
 younger users on the platform.
 
While the update aims to get parents more involved in their teen`s online presence and adds new features to its parental supervision tool, critics 
 
 say the app fails to properly verify whether a parent is actually in control. Meta acknowledged that it doesn`t conduct formal parent 
 
 verification, but says it uses other checks to determine if a user should be allowed to oversee a teen`s account. 
 
Pop quiz hotshot.
 
What planet in our solar system has the longest days? 
 
Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, or Neptune? 
 
If you said Venus, put your hands up. And if you thought you were having a long day, listen to this. It takes 243 Earth days for Venus to complete one 
 
 full rotation. 
 
Next, we are checking out a time-lapse tour of the planet Mercury like we`ve never seen before. A joint European-Japanese spacecraft has made its 
 
 fourth and nearest flyby of Mercury, sending back these jaw-dropping images of the planet`s craters. 
 
The BepiColombo probe was launched in 2018 and is using a gravity assist maneuver to join Mercury`s orbit for an eight-year journey around the 
 
 planet. It`s the best few scientists have gotten of Mercury`s impact craters, which are formed by large asteroid or comet impacts, revealing 
 
 more about the history of their formation and of the planet`s volcanic history.
 
Did you know that Mercury has a strong arts theme? Two of its most studied craters, the Vivaldi and the more recently named Stoddart crater, were 
 
 named for a famous composer and artist, respectively.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISABLE ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A dramatic new video into CNN shows devastating floods in Poland and several countries, as heavy 
 
 rains hit Central and Eastern Europe, causing some of the worst flooding in decades for that region. A massive, slow-moving storm dumped months` worth 
 
 of rain onto several of Europe`s historic capitals.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  All right, everyone. I`m heading to Los Angeles this weekend to interview the Olympic legend Simone Biles, and we want to give her a CNN 10 
 
 viewer question. So send some questions my way on social media, put it in the comment section of one of my posts, and we`re going to pick one for us 
 
 to ask her.
 
All right, and now we have a question for you. What would the Olympics look like if Mongolian Emperor Genghis Khan had invented the Games instead of 
 
 the Greeks? Well, the World Nomad Games give us a little glimpse. The fifth annual Games kicked off in Astana, the capital of host country Kazakhstan. 
 
 The Games can be rough and rugged, challenging the athletes` equanimity, and they keep traditional sport and identity alive for nomadic cultures 
 
 across Southeastern Europe and Inner Asia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Horse archery. Strongman competitions. Falconry. These were a few of the sports happening last week at the World Nomad Games 
 
 held in Astana, Kazakhstan. This was the fifth installment of the Games, with the first being held in Kyrgyzstan in 2014. The competition has taken 
 
 place every two years since then, except during the start of the COVID pandemic.
 
It takes place during September, as this was the historical shift made by nomadic tribes from summer into winter camping. As well as the sporting 
 
 events, a cultural program also took place, celebrating nomadic traditions from the region. At the end of the six-day Games, the host country 
 
 Kazakhstan came out on top with 112 medals, 43 of which were gold.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  All right, many of us may want to see the world and cross off some amazing places on our bucket list, right? But imagine traveling the world 
 
 and not being able to actually see it. JoAnn Becker is blind, but that hasn`t stopped her from traveling to more than 50 countries. Her mission to 
 
 hear, smell, and feel incredible experiences inspired her deep love of travel.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOANN BECKER, TRAVELER:  I love that globe. I just adore having a way to just feel where it is I`ve been in the world.
 
India was an explosion of all of my senses. Anything I smelled could touch the silks and the cashmeres. 
 
I am JoAnn Becker. I was born blind. I have traveled to, I believe, 56 countries at this point, but it`s not enough. And I want to go more places.
 
I love to get access to maps. It does require several volumes of Braille in my case, because I`ve traveled to so many different places. 
 
When my husband was alive, we traveled together, and I traveled with him. There was a moment when I just thought to myself, if -- I can`t give up 
 
 experiencing different places to visit in the world. I can`t give it up, so I just have to figure out ways in which to do it by myself. 
 
Where is my phone. Hey Siri, where are you?
 
SIRI:  I`m here. 
 
BECKER:  No, that`s the wrong Siri. Not you.
 
There are definitely challenges. 
 
What is the address for the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston?
 
SIRI:  The address for Museum of Fine Arts is 465 Huntington Ave. 
 
BECKER:  Even if it`s been a trial trying to do it, it`s worth it.
 
MUSEUM GUIDE:  So this room is filled with five big white marble sculptures.
 
BECKER:  God, her arm. It`s like she`s kind of bent over and obviously concentrating, so it`s not joy and bliss. It`s like she`s focused, I think. 
 
 She`s trying to listen. She`s trying to attend to something.
 
MUSEUM GUIDE: I will also tell you, JoAnn, this is Nydia, "The Blind Girl of Pompeii." 
 
BECKER:  What? My blind sister. Are you kidding me? Seriously, she`s supposed to be blind? That`s amazing. Oh my gosh.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a chamber of secrets? Well, not quite. But this 120-year-old chamber did surprise a construction crew 
 
 in Washington, D.C. working near the National Mall. The National Park Service says this 30-foot-deep brick-lined cistern used to gather rainwater 
 
 and was found while crews were renovating the Smithsonian Castle. Unfortunately, it was empty. So no more national treasures this time. 
 
Thanks to everyone who submitted some stellar words for Your Word Wednesday. Today`s winners are the Adept Scholars at Mr. Woodrum`s classes 
 
 at Meadow Bridge in West Virginia for equanimity, a noun meaning calmness and composure, especially in difficult situations. Thanks for boosting our 
 
 vocabulary. 
 
Our shout-out today goes to Decatur Central High School and all the Hawks flying high Indianapolis, Indiana, rise up.
 
Thanks to all of you for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube channel for your shout-out requests. You rock. We`ll see you right back 
 
 here tomorrow on CNN 10.
 
END