Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Brazil's Deadly Plane Crash; Ukraine's Surprise Attack; Ukrainian Troops Post Video Outside Russian Gas Facility; U.S., Qatar, and Egypt Make Renewed Push for Gaza Ceasefire; Israel to Attend Talks on New Hostage and Ceasefire Deal; ChatGPT Voice Mode May Cause Emotional Dependence; Algerian Imane Khelif Wins Gold. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired August 09, 2024 - 18:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, it's 7:00 p.m. in Sao Paulo, and 6:00 p.m. in Atlanta. I'm Lynda Kinkade, in for Julia Chatterley. Wherever you 
 
 are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
A very warm welcome to "First Move." Here is today's need to know. 61 people have died after a passenger plane crashed near Sao Paulo. Ukrainian 
 
 troops appear to have captured an important natural gas hub in Russia's Kursk region. And Imane Khelif, the Algerian boxer surrounded by 
 
 misconceptions about her gender, wins gold at the Paris Olympics. All that and much more coming up.
 
We begin with that deadly plane crash in Brazil. All 61 people on board that plane are believed dead after it went down in a residential 
 
 neighborhood on the outskirts of Sao Paulo. Witnesses say the video showing -- filmed video of the plane's rapid descent seconds before it crashed.
 
Flight tracking data says the plane dropped some 17,000 feet in just one minute. It's still not known what went wrong with a regional turboprop 
 
 which had taken off from the town of Cascavel, heading towards the capital. But officials say they have now recovered the plane's black box.
 
Brazil Air Force team is in charge of that investigation. And the death call -- death toll could have been high if it weren't for the fact that 
 
 many people who wanted to board the plane went to the wrong gate and missed the flight.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  It's such a big emotion. You don't know. I'm here shaking my legs are here. Only God and I were aware of this 
 
 moment.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  At 9:40, the stop was closed. The flight was leaving a Voepass. I was working at the Toledo Regional 
 
 Hospital. I'm group 10. When I got here, I waited. I argued with the airport worker, and that was it. He saved my life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  So, I want to bring in our Richard Quest. Richard, I know you've been looking at the video, the footage, and of course that flight data, 
 
 which showed the plane losing altitude a minute and a half before crashing. Considering all of that, what do you think may have taken place here?
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR-AT-LARGE:  We don't know, but that's not very helpful any more than any speculation as what you can see. The core 
 
 point to notice what you can see when the plane is coming out of the sky is that there is no forward motion. There's no forward movement at all. It is 
 
 in a spiral spin down. It is in a flat spin.
 
And something -- and forget the -- I mean, the 90 seconds is the horrificness for those that were on board and the -- what there was some -- 
 
 I can't even bring my mind to think about it. But what took place before it? Was it an accrual of ice on the wings?
 
We know there was high altitude, freezing conditions. And therefore, between flight levels 12,000 and 21,000 there was a -- that could -- that 
 
 have been it? What could have failed by way of structure of the aircraft? How did the pilots respond at any given moment? So, the last 90 seconds, in 
 
 a sense, was the non-recoverable stall.
 
By that point, the plane is in extremis. There is nothing really more the pilots can do. It's horrific to say, and it's even worse to watch, but they 
 
 probably -- that upward is over (ph). Go back 90 seconds beyond, and now you're starting to say, was it ice? Was it the de-icing equipment? Was it 
 
 the anti-icing equipment? Was it the feathering of the propellers? Unlikely, because of the forward movement.
 
Something caused the plane to lose altitude. As it did so, it goes into a stall. It then goes back up again, but that's just, if you will, because of 
 
 the -- either the inputs or increased speed. The black box will tell everything, Lynda. Absolutely everything. Those black boxes will reveal.
 
KINKADE:  And obviously, we know Brazil's Civil Aviation Agency is investigating it. And we have just heard that they do now have that black 
 
 box. So, take us through the next steps of this investigation.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
QUEST:  Right. So, the first question will be their capabilities of opening, downloading, and deciphering the black box. They are a 
 
 sophisticated. The industry -- the aviation industry is large in Brazil, but these are particular machines, the black boxes, that usually are done 
 
 either by the manufacturers or sent to another country. We'll find out in a matter of hours if Brazil's investigative authorities have the necessary 
 
 technology. My guess is they probably do, but I don't know.
 
If they don't. The boxes will be sent to the U.S., Canada or somewhere else where they will be opened and read. If they do, they will do it themselves. 
 
 And almost immediately -- they may not tell us, Lynda, but almost immediately, they will have a very good idea of what happened because the 
 
 box will show, number one, what the pilots said to each other as it was happening. SB died, this thing going, that thing going, this alarm, they'll 
 
 hear noises. Number two, they'll see the inputs that they did. They'll see what was happening with the various flight machinery and the flight control 
 
 in those parts. They will find out.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Richard Quest for us. Good to have you on the program. Thanks so much. I want to bring in a witness now to this plane crash. 
 
 Nathalie Cicari joins us now. Now, you were in the area when this plane came crashing down. Just describe for us what you saw and what you heard.
 
NATHALIE CICARI, WITNESSED PLANE CRASH:  Yes. Thank you. I was really close to the plane when it happened. OK. I was like having lunch and I heard some 
 
 really intense noise. It seems like a drone was circling, but it was like the sound of a drone, but really intense loud -- really intense noise.
 
And then, I went to the balcony to see what was going on if there actually was a drone, but really quickly, I looked up at the sky and I saw the plane 
 
 like coming right at my zone at my home and like spiraling down. And then, I -- there was enough time just to think this is coming really close. 
 
 Nowhere to run. So, I just laid on the floor and waited.
 
Then all of a sudden, a really intense noise from the plane crash and the house was like trembling down and then I just thought, OK, I'm alive, but 
 
 something really bad happened. So, I went to the balcony again and there was that really intense smoke. I figured something really bad had happened. 
 
 Really intense smoke. It was really hard crash.
 
KINKADE:  And we see from those images that this plane, it seems to have narrowly missed a house. Is that your neighbor's house?
 
CICARI:  Yes. It fell right into my neighbor's backyard. And a small -- part of the plane hit his house. OK. And -- but mostly hit his backyard and 
 
 a small part of his house.
 
KINKADE:  How many people that you've spoken to in the neighborhood were home at the time as his plane came crashing down, which was about 1:30 p.m. 
 
 local time?
 
CICARI:  Yes, about 1:30 p.m. I've heard from the neighborhood that this neighbor, owner of the house, was home at the time, he and his family, but 
 
 nothing happened to them. They were like safe and sound. And they just ran and they are fine, I heard. And the whole neighborhood was really crazy 
 
 about it and really wondering what's going on. How may we help? And everyone was really desperate.
 
KINKADE:  And this is a major investigation now because all 61 people on that plane sadly died in this crash. Thankfully no one in the neighborhood 
 
 was killed when this plane came down. What are authorities telling you and other neighbors about what's going to happen over the next few days? Are 
 
 you allowed to stay in your home?
 
CICARI:  At the moment, the police and the fire firefighters, they took me off my home because the smoke was really intense and coming into my home, I 
 
 couldn't breathe in here. So, I took my pets and we left. But now we are able to stay home.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
The policemen came here and evaluated the situation, they said it's now safe to be here. But I've heard the investigations are going for days now. 
 
 And they're not saying really much for us for us, like, civilians. But there is a major investigation going, and there are lots of people, 
 
 policemen, firefighters, scientific police, and the whole community helping to understand what happened and what's going to happen from now on.
 
KINKADE:  Nathalie, how are you feeling? Because I imagine there's a lot of shock right now.
 
CICARI:  Yes. At the time I was really shocked because it was really close to me. This plane crash don't happen usually. So, once it does, it's so 
 
 close to me, I'm guessing it's actually going to hit my home and there's nowhere to run. There's no time to run to be safe. So, honestly, today I 
 
 feel blessed that I'm alive. I mean, it's like starting a new life from now on.
 
And I'm sending all my prayers to the people on the plane crash and their families because it's really sad what happened and I can't imagine their 
 
 pain.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, our thoughts certainly with the 61 people, their families who are now dealing with this horrible, horrible tragedy, but thankful that 
 
 you and your neighbors are safe. Nathalie Cicari, thanks so much for joining us.
 
Well, joining me now is Mary Schiavo, CNN transportation analyst and former Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Transportation. Mary, good to 
 
 have you with us. We've obviously seen the video falling -- of this plane falling out of the sky, and we don't know exactly what went wrong, but 
 
 we've heard you talk about this aerodynamic stall. Just explain that for us.
 
MARY SCHIAVO, CNN TRANSPORTATION ANALYST:  Well, and the video is very, very helpful because there are some hallmarks of an aerodynamic stall. So, 
 
 an aerodynamic stall is when the wind, the air flowing over the wings is not sufficient to -- literally to keep the plane in the air, since that's 
 
 how it goes. And this happens when you lose forward momentum or something else happens.
 
And so, this plane, I -- you know, I've worked on other, you know, accidents in Brazil or other accidents related to this aircraft, and there 
 
 have been about 18 of them, which is not alarming because there are hundreds of these planes, but they do have a few things in common. Some of 
 
 the prior accidents did concern weather and that aerodynamic stall caused by, as Richard mentioned, icing, problems with the weather that interrupted 
 
 the flow of the air over the wings and ice does that, because this isn't like a sheet of ice that you ice skate on. This ice is like lace. It's like 
 
 a very porous and it catches the wind and it really destroys your lift.
 
And then, another accident recently, and this was in Nepal back in January 2023, was the situation where the pilots -- actually, it was the second 
 
 pilot, it was the co-pilot who, instead of putting the flaps on as they were coming into land -- and they were kind of in the same place that this 
 
 plane was, they were coming into land, they were getting ready to set up to get -- you know, get the down on the runway. Instead of on -- being on -- 
 
 putting on the flaps, the switch next to the flaps was the prop feathering. It changes the positioning of the props and they lost forward motion.
 
So, there have been a couple of similar accidents that have the hallmarks of this one and certainly, that plane falling from the sky looks like 
 
 those. When you stall, that's what happens. You fall like a leaf out of the sky.
 
KINKADE:  And just how common, Mary, does a stall in flight happen? And how can pilots correct it? How often? Like, is it something that pilots can 
 
 easily fix in certain cases?
 
SCHIAVO:  Well, you know, stalls happen so often that's that is literally one of the first things you learn in flight training. I mean, your 
 
 instructor, you get in the plane. And one of the first things you're instructed is how to recover from a stall, because they can happen for a 
 
 variety of reasons, whether winds, you know, issues with how you have your plane configured, mistakes by the pilot. So, what you learn in flight 
 
 school, of course, right off the bat is how to recover from a stall. Usually it involves adding power, getting the nose down, and the plane 
 
 wants to fly out of it.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
But, you know, there are situations where you don't have time to respond, or you don't have time to react, or in a lot of the accidents, including 
 
 the most recent one in Nepal that I mentioned, the pilots did not notice right away that they were in trouble. They did not correctly diagnose what 
 
 was going on with the plane and so they didn't put the correct recovery procedures in.
 
And then, of course, for icing. For icing can happen at any time, any altitude. I mean, it can happen high. It can happen down low. A famous 
 
 crash concerning Brazil was Air France 447, where a large airbus was going from Brazil to Paris. And they had a stall above 30,000 feet. It was 
 
 weather related.
 
So, it can happen at any altitude, but you have to recognize it right away. You have to respond. And if it's too much icing for your plane, you have to 
 
 get out of it. Well, the only way to get out of it if your plane can't handle the icing, and this was one of the criticisms of the ATR. That's why 
 
 we don't have many of them in the states because, you know, we have a lot of icing in the winter. There's lots of weather.
 
And so, if your plane can't defeat the icing through the anti-ice system to prevent it or the de-ice system to break it off, then you only have one 
 
 choice, you have to descend to get out of it or climb to get out of it. And if you're in a situation here where you don't recognize it right away, 
 
 there's not much you can do if your plane's already in this flat spin, this flat stall and falling to the ground.
 
So, you know, a lot comes down to training and a lot comes down to what's going on in that cockpit. A lot of times pilots get distracted.
 
KINKADE:  Well, we will be following this investigation into this plane crash closely. Mary Schiavo, CNN transportation analyst, always good to 
 
 have you with us. Thank you.
 
Well, as Mary was mentioning, it is believed weather conditions around Sao Paulo at the time in the air may have had some sort of impact with -- some 
 
 sort of effect on this crash. For more, I want to bring in Chad Myers at the Weather Center. Chad, good to have you with us. So, just explain for us 
 
 what the conditions were like on the ground and in the air at the time of this crash.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  On the ground, it was 12 degrees Celsius. So, well above freezing. There was no issue there. But that's not where 
 
 this event took place. This event took place at 17,000 feet. And at 17,000 feet, it was below freezing up there. And in many of the areas here, 
 
 because of the cloud cover through here and even some strata form rain, just -- not thunderstorms, just rain, at that altitude, the relative 
 
 humidity was over 100 percent. That can cause icing.
 
In fact, even up here, there was a severe icing alert, maybe not quite where the plane flew through, could have been very close, but the thing is, 
 
 if there's severe here, even if it's moderate here, that plane was in something and it possibly didn't even know that it was, but that was a 
 
 segment that did come out of Brazil.
 
So, there's the plane as it took off. It did take off toward Sao Paolo. The airport here on the -- just the east side of town, but as it was up to the 
 
 north of Sao Paulo, probably making its -- on its way down leg here, and it just didn't make it to Sao Paulo, Brazil, because the plane literally came 
 
 straight down.
 
The relative humidity up in the atmosphere was 100 percent. The temperatures are below freezing. You have to think. That happens all the 
 
 time. It just depends on what altitude. In the summer that altitude is higher. In the winter, that altitude is lower, and here we are now into 
 
 parts of Brazil where it is obviously their winter. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Chad Myers for us. Thanks so much. Well, still to come on "First Move," Ukrainian forces putting the Kremlin on defense, striking 
 
 deeper into Russian territory. We'll have the latest on Ukraine's surprise military move when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade. And what appears to be the capture of a Russian gas facility by Ukrainian troops in Russia. 
 
 This is one of the videos circulating on Telegram, the social media platform. Ukrainian forces can be seen clearly holding their flag and 
 
 rifles. Also in the video, signs from Russia's state-controlled energy company Gazprom.
 
Now, this comes as Moscow scrambles to stop a Ukrainian attack inside Russia. CNN has geolocated this footage and can confirm that it's from 
 
 Russia's Kursk region. It appears to show burnt-out Russian trucks and the bodies of military personnel.
 
Our Chief International Security Correspondent Nick Paton Walsh is covering the story for us and joins us on live from London. Nick, good to have you 
 
 with us. So, Ukraine has not only launched a massive drone attack overnight on government and military targets inside Russia, but also, Ukraine has 
 
 been carrying out this incursion inside Russia for four days now. Putin called it a major provocation. Is this a new phase of the war?
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, I think it's something we have not seen before, particularly now we're in the 
 
 fourth day of Ukrainian forces pushing so deep into Russia as they appear to be.
 
Now, let me break this down for you. You mentioned the Lipetsk attack by drones, that is something we've seen quite familiarly over the past months. 
 
 Ukraine using longer-range drones to hit Russian military infrastructure. And last night was no exception. They claim 700 guided bombs, a key Russian 
 
 weapon on the battlefield, hit when they struck an ammunition depot with a drone. That's one attack, very far inside Russia.
 
Separately, we've now had, since Tuesday, a ground incursion towards a town called Suzdal. You saw the images there, near the gas harbor. A key 
 
 strategic thing, potentially infrastructure, that enables Russia to get gas from its pipelines through Ukraine. That's still happening, even in a time 
 
 of war to Europe. They seem to have one of the key buildings in control. That video is important, because for days, Ukraine has kind of been quiet 
 
 about what's going on.
 
They have not officially claimed this. This is not an official statement that it's the Ukrainian military doing it, but it's close enough to it, 
 
 frankly, you can see them there in their uniforms and weapons. And that makes it utterly clear what people have been saying for days now, that 
 
 we're seeing the first Ukrainian regular army in invasion, incursion into Russia.
 
And it seems to be more significant than Suzdal as well. There are reports from military bloggers. It's so hard to work out where Ukraine is. They're 
 
 using surprise as one of their main tactics, suggesting that all points of the compass around Suzdal. They're in fact advancing further, potentially 
 
 five or 10 kilometers in some direction.
 
You played the video there of a damaged military convoy, that's deeper inside Russia. Seems to have been hit by drones or artillery or missiles. 
 
 Significant damage there to a large number of personnel and ammunition. So, a bloody scene, certainly, and a reminder of how successful this Ukrainian 
 
 surprise attack has been. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, just incredible. And of course, Nick, we know that Russia hit a supermarket and a post office inside Ukraine's east today. What are 
 
 the details?
 
WALSH:  Yes, this is what we've seen sadly, horrifically often when Russia seems to be losing on the battlefield in some front lines, it appears to 
 
 lash out against a civilian target here. Ukrainian officials saying a missile hit the supermarket you're seeing here in Kostyantynivka in 
 
 Ukraine. Now, that's not far from the front lines. It would have been a busy Friday morning, civilians in there preparing for the weekend, possibly 
 
 some military too, but this is clearly a civilian target.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
The death toll now 14, dozens dead. And amongst those 14 dead officials say they think there may be three children, but they're still having to examine 
 
 the bodies. Again, it's all against civilians. I should remind you that when Ukraine launched its attack into Russia on Tuesday, on Wednesday, 
 
 Vladimir Putin said that this was a major provocation and claimed that Ukraine's forces have been shelling residential areas. Well, look at this. 
 
 This is what Russia's been doing for months, if not years.
 
The big question, Lynda, about this Ukrainian incursion into Russia is exactly what it's longer-term goals really are. It's a huge use of 
 
 Ukrainian resources that are scant. They lower manpower. They are low on munitions, but they are raging across large open spaces of unprotected 
 
 Ukrainian -- Russian border areas here. Do they have strategic infrastructure in target or are they simply there to cause the Russians to 
 
 panic and reallocate forces?
 
These are raging questions in Kyiv now because people want to know exactly why these resources have been used other than simply the positive headline 
 
 for Ukraine after months of them having nothing but bad news, frankly, from slow incremental Russian gains. Key question that has to be answered, but 
 
 for now, it's Moscow embarrassed at how poorly defended so much of its border area are.
 
There are some surveys suggesting that maybe Ukraine is moving troops over a 100-square kilometers of Russia's border area. Quite startling. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Wow. Yes, it really is. And as you point out, Nick, what is the strategy? A key question. Nick Paton Walsh for us in London. Thanks so 
 
 much.
 
Well, after the break, we're going to return to the passenger plane crash in Brazil. The airline says 61 people were on board and have all died.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. A magnitude 5.3 earthquake 
 
 has hit Tokyo and eastern parts of Japan. It comes a day after the government issued its first ever advisory about the risk of a huge 
 
 earthquake in the west of the country. The quake's epicenter was south of the capital. The prime minister says there haven't been any reports of 
 
 major damage.
 
The White House says the U.S. has shared information with Austrian authorities to help foil that suspected terrorist plot targeting Taylor 
 
 Swift's concerts in Vienna. A total of four people have now been arrested in connection with the alleged plot, including an Iraqi teenager. Swift 
 
 canceled three nights of performances as news of that threat emerged.
 
U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris and her running mate, Tim Walz, are set to hold a campaign rally a couple of hours from now in the battleground 
 
 State of Arizona. She won a rare endorsement from the nation's oldest and largest Latino civil rights group.
 
In the meantime, Former President Donald Trump is returning to the campaign trail with a rally tonight in Montana. The Republican nominee is looking to 
 
 give his party a boost in one of this year's most competitive Senate races.
 
Well, now, to the latest on that plane crash just outside Sao Paulo, Brazil. We have this disturbing video which shows a huge plume of black 
 
 smoke coming from the crash site. It happened in a residential area just hours ago. Local officials say no one on the ground was killed, but all on 
 
 board perished.
 
Several bystanders captured the aftermath and videos now on social media. Authorities say they have found the black box, with the airline now saying 
 
 61 people were on board. Authorities say no one appears to have survived. Julia Vagas Jones joins us now. And so, Julia, 57 passengers were on board, 
 
 four crew members, sadly no survivors. And this was a domestic route, which typically would have been less than an hour and a half flight across the 
 
 country. What more are you learning about it?
 
JULIA VARGAS JONES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That's right, Lynda. Just to give you some context that's a domestic flight that, again, should take no more 
 
 than 90 minutes. It goes from one state, the State of Parana, Cascavel, that's where it left from, to Guarulhos, Sao Paulo. That's one state over 
 
 and that's the largest airport in Brazil. It's the hub of all activity.
 
That crash happened only about eight minutes before it was set to touch down. And that area, that residential area is about drive from Sao Paulo, 
 
 but it is a small-town neighborhood. It's densely populated. We actually spoke to -- actually, you just spoke also with someone who filmed one of 
 
 these videos and the description of that is just this is a neighborhood. You know, your neighbors. She was filming this video and also fearing for 
 
 her life and also for her neighbors, right? We also have heard from authorities that they are right now in sweeping that entire area.
 
I want to highlight something, Lynda. I think it is a miracle that nobody on the ground was killed in this incident. You know, I spoke and I tried to 
 
 confirm that with various different authorities. I couldn't believe it at first, but it seems that people just took shelter, as your guest described 
 
 earlier, just under the table, just going down like we've seen in the movies. It is quite unbelievable that this happened.
 
We are now seeing that the State of Sao Paulo has declared a three-day long mourning period across the state. There is a cabinet that was set up, an 
 
 emergency cabinet along with national authorities to kind of get a sense of how is it that this happened. That video that shows the airplane spiraling 
 
 down. It is -- it raises so many questions. But now with that black box, we will learn more about what is it a happening and also about the identity of 
 
 these victims, of these passengers and the crew members that were inside that airplane. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Yes. And we had just less than an hour ago about the 10 passengers who missed that flight because they went to the wrong gate, 
 
 which is just remarkable for those people. But take us through the next steps of this investigation because, you know, Brazil's Civil Aviation is 
 
 investigating. Is it likely they'll call on any other international partners to help with this investigation?
 
JONES:  It depends. It depends on -- if they can actually analyze that black box in the country. It could be that they don't need to. It could be 
 
 that they do request other assistance. We know that the United States has reached out to the embassy in Brazil and has expressed their condolences to 
 
 all of the passengers that were in the flight. We know that there were no Americans.
 
But we don't know yet if there will be any aid that will be needed. This is, of course, not the first time that Brazil handles an accident like 
 
 this, an aerial accident like this one. So, we'll see in the coming hours. I believe we'll have so much more information still coming in. Of course, 
 
 this happened at 1:00 p.m. -- 1:30 p.m. local time. It's been going on for hours and hours.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
Still a chaotic scene there, Lynda, as first responders are making their way. You know, they're still recovering the bodies. They have to retrieve 
 
 all of those bodies that they say are very badly burned and still have to go through the process of identifying all of them. They're still informing 
 
 the families. You know, we -- there is a list that was released. We're not reporting on those names because we don't know if those families actually 
 
 have been contacted yet by the authorities.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Julia Vagas Jones. Yes, I thought certainly with the families of those passengers and crew. Thanks very much for joining us.
 
And we are going to stay on this story. I want to bring in John King. He is a flight instructor, a pilot and the founder of King's schools. Thanks so 
 
 much for your time. So -- 
 
JOHN KING, FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR AND PILOT:  You're welcome.
 
KINKADE:  We've obviously seen quite a bit of footage already of the plane falling out of the sky. We've seen images of the crash site, but also, 
 
 we've got some of that data from the flight radar. From what you've seen so far, what strikes you about what may have caused this crash?
 
KING:  Well, first of all, of course, it's an absolute tragedy, but there's a lot to be learned from watching that airplane descend. It appears to be 
 
 descending almost vertically and its impact with the ground didn't destroy very many homes because it just went down vertically and didn't wipe out a 
 
 swath of ground. So, that tells us a great deal about that aircraft.
 
And at that time, the airplane wasn't truly flying. The air wasn't flowing over the wings and creating lift. And the question is, really, how did it 
 
 get in that situation? And it's possible that the weather conditions played a factor in it.
 
KINKADE:  And talk to us about those weather conditions, because we have heard that it was 100 percent relative humidity, icy, freezing conditions. 
 
 What would it have been like flying through that?
 
KING:  We were told that other pilots experienced icing in those conditions and they had passed that information around. So, pilots were aware of that. 
 
 Icing tends to interfere with the smooth flow of air over the wings. You want the air flowing smoothly over the wings. And if you have icing, it 
 
 tends to interfere with that.
 
And airplanes have de-icing systems, for instance, they can have boots that they can expand and knock the air off the -- knock the icing off the wings. 
 
 And that's what they have in that aircraft. And it may or may not have been activated or was activated, not very effective. But in any event, 
 
 eventually the aircraft stalled and they lost a smooth flow of air over the wings and went all the way down to the ground it appears. And we don't know 
 
 for sure what happened, but we have a lot of information by watching that video.
 
KINKADE:  And certainly, it seemed to happen really quick. When you look at the flight data, before it was plummeting, it was cruising at 70,000 feet. 
 
 It dropped. It climbed briefly and then dropped again. What does that tell you? And what do you teach in school when you're talking to pilots about 
 
 trying to correct a stall, if that is indeed what was happening?
 
KING:  Well, pilots from their very first flying are taught to keep smooth flow of air over the wings. And in this case, what happens is something 
 
 disrupted this smooth flow of air over the wings. In this case, just like the icing. And what you want to do is have the nose of the aircraft pointed 
 
 -- and the wings point at the direction they're going to be going so that they can develop smooth flow of air with the wings.
 
And -- pardon? I misunderstood that. You know, I thought you said something. But in any event, we're taught that from our very early flying. 
 
 And these pilots would have been taught that. And we have no idea what was going on in that airplane between the pilots or exactly what caused the 
 
 icing and how they were responding to it, but that was their challenge.
 
KINKADE:  And what else, John, can you tell us about this particular aircraft? I understand it was French made in 2010. It could carry up to 72 
 
 people, and it was traveling across Brazil on a flight that should have taken less than 90 minutes. What do you know about this aircraft?
 
KING:  Well, there is a history in the ATR 72 of having had icing conditions in the past and not doing well in icing. So, that's -- that may 
 
 be a factor here, that the aircraft itself may be vulnerable to icing situations and required special attention to recover from the icing. It's 
 
 possible. I don't want to jump to conclusions, but the -- we learned a lot by seeing that airplane descend and hit the ground without moving across 
 
 the ground.
 
KINKADE:  Yes. Well, we will continue to follow this investigation. John King, appreciate your time tonight. Thanks so much.
 
KING:  You're welcome.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
KINKADE:  Well, international mediators and making a renewed push for a ceasefire in Gaza. This as a hospital says at least 22 people have been 
 
 killed following airstrikes by Israel. U.N. estimates that more than 60,000 Palestinians have been displaced as the Israeli military pushes ahead with 
 
 a new operation in Khan Younis.
 
Well, Israel also reportedly carrying out a new attack in Lebanon today. Lebanese state media say a drone strike killed a Hamas official in the Port 
 
 City of Saigon. Clarissa Ward is following the developments and joins us now from Tel Aviv. Good to have you with us, Clarissa.
 
So, I want to ask you about what we're hearing about potential ceasefire talks that are set to resume, we believe August 15. These talks, of course, 
 
 came to a halt when the assassination of the Hamas political leader took place in Tehran. What are the expectations for these talks that are set to 
 
 take place in six days?
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, there are very high hopes being pinned on these talks, and there is a lot of rhetoric 
 
 coming particularly from the White House, Lynda, saying that they feel that they're closer than ever to a ceasefire agreement. However, there are still 
 
 some real question marks and a lot of acres between the two sides. We don't even know if Hamas yet has committed to actually attend these talks.
 
We have heard, though, an interesting statement just recently, Lynda, from the Iranian permanent mission to the U.N. when asked directly about whether 
 
 Iran would consider delaying or even cancelling a retaliation for the assassination of Hamas's political leader Ismail Haniyeh, which took place 
 
 last week in Tehran. The representative said, our priority is to establish a lasting ceasefire in Gaza. Any agreement accepted by Hamas will also be 
 
 recognized by us. He goes on to say, we have the right to legitimate self- defense. And that's a matter totally unrelated to the Gaza ceasefire. However, we hope that our response will be timed and conducted in a matter 
 
 -- in a manner not to the detriment of the potential ceasefire.
 
I think, Lynda, that's really the closest clue that we have had directly from Iran, giving rise to the hope that Iran would be willing to avert any 
 
 kind of a retaliation until this next wave of ceasefire talks takes place. At the same time, though, they're obviously giving themselves the wiggle 
 
 room if those talks don't bear fruit soon to revert to what they call their right to self-defense. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, it's interesting wording that statement, Clarissa, because I am wondering what sort of retaliation we could see and when. And how it 
 
 might look similar or dissimilar to what we saw from Iran back in April.
 
WARD:  So, it's interesting because there has been so much speculation and very little clarity. Unlike in April, where Iran really sort of telegraphed 
 
 what it was going to do hours in advance. You know, Israeli forces and their allies had a chance to kind of get everything set and ready to 
 
 intercept the vast majority of those more than 300 projectiles that were fired towards Israel.
 
In this instance, nobody seems to know what to expect exactly. Would it be a unilateral strike from Iran? Would Iran act in conjunction with the so-
 
 called Axis of Resistance, the number of proxies in the region that are aligned with Iran?
 
The speculation right now, though, from Israeli officials, Lynda, is that Iran is not the main concern right now. The main concern is Hezbollah. And 
 
 Hezbollah has indicated that they would be willing to act unilaterally to strike without Iran and not in sync with Iran. Obviously, you mentioned as 
 
 well, Lynda, we had that strike, that drone strike that Israel is claiming responsibility for in Southern Lebanon, in the city of Sidon, which 
 
 targeted a senior Hamas commander, not a Hezbollah commander.
 
But all of that still just ratcheting tensions up and adding to a very tricky atmosphere where many fear that it is almost inevitable that we will 
 
 see some kind of an escalation in the coming days. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, certainly an extremely tense time. Clarissa Ward, good to have you there for us in Tel Aviv. Thank you.
 
We are going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. Stay with us. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back a profitable and to a tumultuous week on Wall Street tops today's Money Move. U.S. stocks ending Friday's session in the green 
 
 with tech stocks rising half a percent. All the major averages finishing the week pretty much where they started despite that sharp market sell-off 
 
 that we saw Monday.
 
The volatility sparked by concerns about a slowing U.S. economy, tech stock valuations, and market implications from a sharp rise in the value of the 
 
 Japanese yen. Well, the Nikkei, which plunged 12 percent and fell into a bear market Monday, regained much of its losses by the end of the week too. 
 
 Nice gains across most Asian markets on Friday as well. Stocks in Taiwan, the biggest gainers, up almost 3 percent.
 
OpenAI worried that people will end up chatting too much with ChatGPT. The company's new voice feature allows people to converse with the chatbot like 
 
 they would a human being. But the fear is that people craving companionship will become emotionally attached.
 
Clare Duffy reports.
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER:  Right, Lynda. OpenAI has started to roll out an updated version of ChatGPT's voice mode, that sounds really 
 
 remarkably lifelike. You can interrupt it. You can have real time conversations. It will even laugh if you crack a joke. And OpenAI is saying 
 
 in a new safety report that it's now concerned the tool is so realistic that humans might become over reliant or emotionally dependent on it.
 
I want to read to you just a portion of that safety report. OpenAI says, users might form social relationships with the A.I., reducing their need 
 
 for human interaction. Potentially benefiting lonely individuals, but possibly affecting healthy relationships.
 
Essentially what they're saying there is that people might pull back from their human relationships in order to spend more time with ChatGPT. And 
 
 while this might sound sort of like science fiction, it's already happening with older versions of the technology. I spoke with a college student, Lisa 
 
 Li last month, who told me that she considers ChatGPT to be her boyfriend. Here's how she described that relationship.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LISA LI, SOCIAL MEDIA INFLUENCER:  Sometimes I feel like it's really, really personal. It's something like I'm talking to another me. So, I don't 
 
 have that kind of like a little burden that I have to deal with real human.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DUFFY:  So, as you hear there, she already feels like she's getting something from the A.I. that she's not getting from her human 
 
 relationships. And I think this is really important disclosure in this moment from OpenAI because we know that already existing technologies are 
 
 contributing to people's feelings of social isolation and loneliness. And now, it appears it's possible. We'll see that get worse because of 
 
 artificial intelligence. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  All right. Our thanks to Clare Duffy there. Well, still to come, breaking new ground. The remarkable sport making its debut at the Olympics 
 
 for the first time in history.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
KINKADE:  Well, at the Olympics, Algeria's Imani Khelif has won gold in the women's 66-kilogram boxing. She beat China's Yang Liu in the past couple of 
 
 hours. Khelif made headlines earlier in the games after facing online scrutiny and misinformation over her gender. The IOC responded by saying 
 
 she was born female and is a woman.
 
And to some breaking news now, and I'm not talking about the kind we normally bring you on CNN, when I say breaking, I mean the dance form, 
 
 which has made its debut at the Olympics. For the first time in history, breaking traces its roots back to 1970s New York. And Friday was the 
 
 women's event with Japan taking gold.
 
Our Patrick Snell is following all the action for us, popping and locking on a Friday. Good to have you with us, Patrick. So, let's start with Imane 
 
 Khelif. Obviously, the center of a lot of abuse really online over the last couple of weeks, questioning her gender. She was of course born female. She 
 
 has always competed as a woman in boxing. And now, she's taking home gold.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Yes, this is really a very, very powerful statement of intent from her, Lynda, you're quite right. Very emotional 
 
 last couple of weeks for the Algerian boxer, and she wrapped it all up on Friday after a really tumultuous last few days, and really doing it in 
 
 style as well. She had so much criticism, online abuse as well, following all those misconceptions about her sex.
 
Khelif taking on Yang Liu of China, as you say. This was in the final of the women's welterweight division. This playing out at the historic 
 
 grounds, the tennis grounds, Roland-Garros there in Paris. Khelif receiving a really warm welcome as well from the crowd as she entered the ring. She 
 
 would go on to get the gold medal. She absolutely dominated this match fight from start to finish, winning each round emphatically on the 
 
 scorecard in unanimous fashion.
 
And when the final bell actually rang, Lynda, the fighters hugging it out in a show of respect, which was really good to see. Real camaraderie out 
 
 there after the fight. Khelif doing a trademark celebration as well before being lifted up onto the shoulders of her trainers. And remember, the 
 
 Algerian had been the subject of all that global attention after defeat. This all started after the defeat -- when she defeated the Italian boxer 
 
 Angela Carini in just 46 seconds. That was in a prelim match. That fight triggering just a whole torrent of online abuse, transphobic commentators 
 
 incorrectly calling her a man because she had failed a so-called gender test by now discredited Boxing Federation that had been stripped of its 
 
 ability to run the Olympics events.
 
The IOC, that's the International Olympic Committee, had always defended Khelif's right to fight, saying she was born female, was registered female, 
 
 live her life as a female as well. She will be absolutely delighted, Lynda, with this victory and a gold medal as well.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
KINKADE:  Yes, well done to her. And of course, Patrick, I have to ask you about the football, also known as the soccer. Spain beating the host 
 
 nation, and what was it, an eight-goal thriller?
 
SNELL:  Yes, it absolutely was. I thought for a moment there, Lynda, you're going to ask me to do some breakdancing, but I absolutely can't, at least 
 
 not in this tiny little studio, I will say.
 
All right. In the men's footy in Paris. Spain have spoiled the party for the host nation, France. The Spanish claiming gold after a thrilling 5-3 
 
 extra time victory against Les Bleus at the famed Parc des Princes, that's where Paris (INAUDIBLE) play their domestic and Champions League fixes.
 
France were 3-1 down at the break, but the home fans were loving it when their team levelled in the third-minute of stoppage time for 3-all thanks 
 
 to Jean Philippe Mateta penalty. Sergio Camello then stole the show for the Spaniards as he scored not once but twice to steal a famous victory for La 
 
 Roja, Spain, earning a second gold medal in men's football, adding to their triumph for the 1992 Barcelona Olympics in their homeland.
 
I'm being told in my ear, no break dancing. Sorry, Lynda, we're out of time. Back to you.
 
KINKADE:  Excuses, excuses. There's always time on Saturday night, I'm sure. Patrick Snell, good to see you as always.
 
Well, that just about wraps up the show. Great to have your company. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Have a great weekend.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END