Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Biden Weighs Response to Deadly Drone Attack in Jordan; Tensions Build in Middle East, Fueling Fears of Regional War; Former Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan Sentenced to 10 Years in Jail; King Charles, Princess of Wales Recovering from Hospital Stays; Ukraine Struggles to Hold Lines Amid Ammo Shortages; Economic Concerns Lead to Demonstrations in Germany Nationwide. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired January 30, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are not looking for a war with Iran. We are not seeking a conflict. 
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: This is an incredibly volatile time in the Middle East. We've not seen a situation as dangerous since at least 1973.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Germany is currently in a state of mental depression. Politicians are not acting. They're only fighting. They're not offering solutions. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The entire Olympic world has allowed and coddled Russia to keep going because they never completely throw them out of the Olympics. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo.
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a very warm welcome to our viewers joining us from around the world and the United States. I'm Bianca Nobilo. Max Foster has been working late on Royal Story, so it's just me today.
 
It is Tuesday, January the 30th, 9 a.m. here in London and 4 a.m. in Washington, where U.S. President Joe Biden is weighing his options on how to retaliate after a drone attack on a U.S. military base in Jordan killed three soldiers and injured more than 40 others. Mr. Biden huddled with his national security team on Monday. Officials blame Iran-backed militants for the attack, though Iran is denying any involvement.
 
The White House says the U.S. is not looking for a war with Iran but won't rule out the possibility that President Biden is considering strikes within the country. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: We do not seek another war. We do not seek to escalate. But we will absolutely do what is required to protect ourselves, to continue that mission and to respond appropriately to these attacks. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Tensions have been building for months across the Middle East, fueling fears of a regional war. A U.S. official tells CNN there have been about 165 attacks on U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq and Syria since the middle of October.
 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken commented on the precarious situation in the Middle East. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: I think it's very important to note that this is an incredibly volatile time in the Middle East. I would argue that we've not seen a situation as dangerous as the one we're facing now across the region since at least 1973.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: The three soldiers killed in Jordan have been identified as Sergeant William Rivers, Specialist Kennedy Sanders and Specialist Breonna Moffett, all part of a U.S. Army Reserve unit based in Georgia. 
 
CNN's Scott McLean is following developments and joins me now live from Istanbul. Scott, what options are on the table here for the United States if they want to fulfill their stated objectives of responding in a powerful way that deters, but also not escalating this conflict to wider areas in the region? 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, good morning, Bianca.
 
Look, officially, if you ask U.S. officials, every option is being considered right now, though some are obviously more likely than others. President Biden is under tremendous pressure to put these attacks to an end. Obviously, when it comes to these Iran-backed groups, diplomacy is not exactly an option.
 
For months, you mentioned those 165 or so attacks across Iraq, Syria and now Jordan as well. Those have injured some 120 U.S. servicemembers, but now obviously that three have been killed. The calculation is different.
 
Some Republicans are even suggesting that Biden should go after Iran directly, something that the White House says is on the table, is considered as an option, but it's not a likely one because they know that would that that would very likely start a broader conflict. And Iran, for its part, has been quick to distance itself from these attacks. And even U.S. officials say that there's no evidence at this stage that Iran ordered this attack or that they deliberately asked for it or that they were looking for any kind of escalation.
 
And, look, Iran may not be seeking escalation here, but if you ask Seth Moulton, the congressman who's on the House Armed Services Committee, he says that there are groups, those Iranian proxies that are looking for escalation and they are looking for war. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
REP. SETH MOULTON  (D-MA): These militant groups are trying to start a war. That's what they want. They're not attacking U.S. troops to strike a trade deal here. They want a war. We don't want to play into their aims. We want to stop a war, not start one.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN: And for that reason exactly, as Moulton explained, that is why he is critical of these Republicans, because he says that striking Iran would play into these groups' aims. So now the question for the Biden administration is how to respond, but also how not to make things worse. They say that officials have said that the response is likely to be bigger than previous strikes that we have seen from the United States, which have been more deliberate, more targeted, more proportionate. This one will likely be over several days, be more wide-ranging, probably not limited to one country. 
 
It is also clear that the U.S. has a pretty good idea of who was behind this attack, but they're not saying too much about the specifics of what they know, because they want to preserve some element of surprise when it comes to their response -- Bianca. 
 
NOBILO: Scott McLean in Istanbul. Thank you very much. 
 
Israel's defense minister is warning his troops that it will be months before the war in Gaza is over. During a visit to an Israeli outpost on Gaza's border Monday, 
 
Yoav Golan said, quote: This is a long war, but in the end we will break Hamas. We must keep going until we eliminate them as a governing system and as a military organization capable of launching attacks against the state of Israel. 
 
U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will meet with the families of Israeli-American hostages at the White House today. This comes as sources say international negotiators have agreed to a broad framework for a hostage release deal and a pause to the fighting in Gaza.
 
An official familiar with the talks said that the framework has been presented to Hamas, but details, quote, are going to be very difficult to work out. Even still, that official tells CNN that they are sensing optimism. Alex Marquardt has the details for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: According to most of the parties who were involved in talks over the weekend, it does appear that progress has been made in trying to reach a deal for hostages and for a pause in the fighting in Gaza. 
 
There was a meeting on Sunday in Paris attended by the CIA director, as well as his Egyptian and Israeli counterparts, and the Qatari prime minister, who then came here to Washington and on Monday talked about a broad framework that the parties had discussed with initiatives from all of them. 
 
It is clear that a lot of work still remains to finalize this deal and get it across the finish line. But a source familiar with the discussions tells me that a broad framework was agreed to by those parties who were in Paris. 
 
That would include an initial phase of civilian Israeli hostages released by Hamas and other groups that would be accompanied by a six- week pause in the fighting. That pause could be extended if more of the hostages are released, including the IDF soldiers, both men and women, and the bodies of hostages who are still being held in the Gaza Strip.
 
Now, Hamas would expect Palestinian prisoners to also be released from Israeli prisons, three Palestinian prisoners for every civilian hostage. That ratio could go up with the IDF soldiers. 
 
Now, I asked Secretary of State Antony Blinken about the deal that is being discussed. He called it a strong and compelling proposal and said that there is some real -- that there is real hope going forward. Take a listen. 
 
BLINKEN: I can just tell you that there is, again, strong, I would say, alignment among the countries involved that this is a good and strong proposal. And the work that was done over the weekend, including by CIA Director Bill Burns, was important in helping to advance this. 
 
MARQUARDT: Now, one party not at those talks in Paris was Hamas, the ball now essentially in their court. I'm told that Egyptian intelligence has delivered the proposal of this framework to Hamas.
 
And the source who said that the framework had broadly been agreed to by the others said, quote, I sense optimism. 
 
Alex Marquardt, CNN, at the State Department. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan has been sentenced to 10 years in jail, according to his political party. Khan had been accused of leaking state secrets. His PTI party says the sentence will be challenged in a higher court. Khan was ousted from power back in 2022 in a parliamentary no-confidence vote. This decision now comes ahead of elections on February 8th. 
 
Two members of Britain's royal family are on the mend after hospital stays for separate issues. King Charles and Kate, the Princess of Wales, were both discharged on Monday. Max Foster has those details for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A royal wave goodbye. King Charles heading home after undergoing a corrective procedure for an enlarged prostate. 
 
The message, the crown is still strong. He left the London clinic on Monday afternoon, accompanied by Queen Camilla, to the applause of onlooking crowds. 
 
Just hours earlier, a car full of flowers for the king's daughter-in- law, Kate, who left the same hospital following abdominal surgery and out of the sight of cameras.
 
Buckingham Palace and Kensington Palace both releasing statements on Monday, thanking well-wishers for the kind messages towards the royal pair over recent days and weeks. King Charles is now set for a time of private recuperation at an undisclosed home. 
 
With the spokesperson saying the Princess of Wales is making good progress and is set to continue her recovery in Windsor. It will be several more weeks until the world is able to see the princess again, with her as well as the Prince of Wales pausing all public duties until at least Easter.
 
It's unclear exactly what her surgery was for. However, a royal source confirmed to CNN that the condition was non-cancerous. 
 
King Charles, on the other hand, making the decision to be open about his diagnosis, to prompt men to get checked. His announcement resulting in a surge of people looking into information about prostate cancer.
 
Queen Camilla, who visited Charles daily in hospital, told reporters ahead of the surgery that the king was looking forward to getting back to work. The recent and unusually candid health updates from the royal family possibly a sign of a slightly evolving and more transparent monarchy. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Heavy snow has stopped falling in Nova Scotia for now, but it's caused some issues in the Canadian province, and more could be on the way this weekend. High winds kicked up the snow in Halifax on Monday, it was enough to cancel schools for many areas, but some residents are taking it in their stride. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Obviously, it hasn't really been winter like normal this year or even last year, so we're just going to make the most of the snow while we can. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Very excited to be out, Cora loves the snow, it might be her favorite thing to eat. Yeah, no, just happy to be outside. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: That's impressive, just skiing around, don't let snow stop you. 
 
Today's forecast for the area calls for high temperatures around minus three degrees Celsius or 26 degrees Fahrenheit, but the wind chill will make it feel even colder.
 
Still ahead, a winter of discontent in Germany as concerns over the economy and far-right policies continue to fuel protests across the country. 
 
Plus, Israel reveals evidence that it claims ties some unruly workers to the October 7th attacks by Hamas, details on that ahead. 
 
And Elon Musk's startup installs a brain implant in its first human patient. We'll tell you what they're aiming to accomplish. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Ukraine says its troops have expanded their foothold across the Dnipro River in the Russian-controlled Kherson region. The river has become a major target for Kiev since it's used as a natural defensive barrier against Russian forces. Ukrainian officials stress that the situation in the area is fluid and Russian attacks are not letting up. 
 
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg is urging allies to send Ukraine more weapons and ammunition, calling it a, quote, investment in our own security.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: Russia's brutal war against Ukraine is nearing the two-year mark. And a Russian victory would embolden Iran, North Korea and China. That matters for Europe's security, and it matters for America's security.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Ukraine's military is struggling to hold off Russian attacks. Supplies dwindle, and another round of U.S. funding remains stalled in Congress. CNN's Fred Pleitgen shows us what it's like on the front lines in eastern Ukraine and a warning to you that some images in this story are graphic. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): All-out warfare in unforgiving terrain. Forest battles in eastern Ukraine mean facing a near-constant Russian onslaught. Vladimir Putin's army trying to break through Ukrainian defenses.
 
Dmytro is one of those holding them up. 
 
The situation is very active and very tense, he says, because the enemy has much more equipment and manpower. Basically, every day they try to storm the positions.
 
A dead Russian soldier and a destroyed tank show just how close the Russians have come. It's a fight for survival and against the elements. The trench, cold, wet and soggy, the only heat coming from candles the soldiers cower around, gathering strength to face overwhelming Russian firepower.
 
They shoot direct fire. Planes are flying. Basically, they have it all, he says. But probably the worst are tanks. When they fire, you don't even hear it. You hear an airplane when it comes over. With a tank, you're in God's hands. 
 
Artillery fire, another threat here, as we found out when we came under fire trying to make it to the area. 
 
PLEITGEN: This is unfortunately something that, when we work here in the east of the country, happens all too often. We were getting ready to film here, and then all of a sudden we heard what appeared to be outgoing artillery, but then a shell came in. 
 
100 meters, gotcha. 
 
We're now trying to make our way out of here as safe as possible. That means we have to keep distance between our cars, but we also, of course, have to keep moving the entire time to make sure that we can get out of here hopefully safely. 
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): We believe a Russian drone spotted us and directed the artillery fire. But two can play that game.
 
Nazariy is a Ukrainian drone pilot. He guides Kyiv's artillery guns, targeting Russian infantry, but also armored assault formations, including main battle tanks. He says ammo shortages mean he has to be extremely precise.
 
It's no secret we're starved of artillery shells, he says. We try to work as efficiently and accurately as possible to hit the enemy's firepower. 
 
Trying to fight back any way they can on one of the toughest battlefields of this war.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN in eastern Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Russian President Vladimir Putin is officially running for re- election. His candidacy was approved unanimously by the Election Commission for the upcoming vote scheduled to begin March 15th. Putin is seeking a fifth presidential term, which would keep him in power until 2030. 
 
Opposition candidate Boris Nadezhdin is also expected to run. He's just one day or so left to submit the 100,000 signatures required to qualify. He says he's collected twice that number. 
 
Germany's president is calling for a broad alliance against extremism. It comes amid revelations the main far-right party is reportedly considering the mass deportation of migrants, part of the so-called master plan. Those fears, along with concerns over the economy, are fueling nationwide protests. CNN's Sebastian Shukla has the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SEBASTIAN SHUKLA, CNN PRODUCER (voice-over): Their actions speak. I don't know where to start, but let's meet on the street, this rapper rhymes.
 
Weekends in Berlin and across Germany are quickly becoming days of demonstration. These anti-far-right protesters have a message of light for Germans. Never again means now, as they fear the rise of the far- right.
 
LOUIS MOTAAL, SPOKESPERSON, FRIDAYS FOR FUTURE: Never again is now, and we have to protect our democracy as society here together in Germany, because it's under threat. 
 
SHUKLA (voice-over): That stems from a reported secret meeting of right-wing extremists at this hotel outside Berlin. Allegedly members of Germany's far-right party, the AfD, attended, discussing the mass deportation of immigrants and German citizens of foreign descent.
 
Countryside and capital city also collided for the third straight week, with farmers furious at fuel subsidy cuts. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They make regulations that harm every one of us, not only the farmers, but everyone in this country, and we think enough is enough. 
 
SHUKLA (voice-over): Train drivers have just paused a nationwide strike, so they can go back to the bargaining table demanding higher wages.
 
SHUKLA: The fundamental cause for the protests are economic headwinds, but also the government of Olaf Scholz and his coalition is deeply unpopular, and that is starting to create a split in German society. 
 
SHUKLA (voice-over): Marcel Fratzscher is the president of the German Institute for Economic Research. MARCEL FRATZSCHER, PRESIDENT, GERMAN INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMIC RESEARCH:
 
 And Germany is currently in a state of mental depression, where people have the impression politicians are not acting, they're only fighting, they're not offering solutions.
 
SHUKLA (voice-over): That is benefiting the AfD, surging particularly in rural areas, and that support is shunting Germany to the right. 
 
FRATZSCHER: Germany, the German government, is becoming more skeptical towards engaging with Europe. It's changing its economic policy, its tax policy, it's cutting social benefits for people with low incomes, so indirectly the AfD is setting the policy.
 
SHUKLA (voice-over): That prospect of success, policy wavering and economic fears is one of the root causes for consecutive weekends of protests from liberal-minded Germans. Their aim, they say, to ensure history does not repeat itself. 
 
Sebastian Shukla, CNN, Berlin.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: New political turmoil in Venezuela, after another opposition leader was banned from running for president. The country's Supreme Court, which is controlled by President Nicolas Maduro's ruling party, recently disqualified Maria Machado from holding any public office for 15 years. After that decision, both the U.S. and the Venezuelan opposition accuse the Maduro government of violating the deal signed several months back.
 
It promises free and fair elections in exchange for some U.S. sanctions being lifted. The White House says the Maduro government has until April to honor that agreement. 
 
Meanwhile, Machado is slamming the country's ruling and refusing to bow out of the presidential race.
 
Stefano Pozzebon picks up this story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
STEFANO POSSEBON, JOURNALIST: Political tensions are rising in Venezuela after, on Friday, the Supreme Court ruled that Maria Corina Machado, an opposition leader who won her coalition primary to run as president later this year, is banned from running and from holding any public office due to corruption charges.
 
On Monday, Machado denied the charges, accusing instead the government of breaking its word. 
 
MARIA CORINA MACHADO, VENEZUELAN OPPOSITION LEADER (through translator): About that ban, or the so-called sentence, once again, the government is walking back on their commitments. Once again, they break what we agreed. They invented documents and presented a decision that we cannot call a sentence. This is judicial crime. 
 
POSSEBON: In the last few days, both the government of authoritarian president Nicolas Maduro and the opposition traded accusations of breaking the deal, which was agreed on October 22nd in Barbados.
 
Under that deal that was mediated by Norway and with the support of the United States Treasury and the State Department, Maduro would allow for free and fair elections in exchange for partial sanctions release. But the new ban on Machado has seen politicians both in Venezuela and in the United States calling on the White House to reinstall the sanctions, which include sanctions on the oil exports of Venezuela. 
 
Late on Monday, the White House said that Maduro has until the spring to commit to what he pledged in Barbados, and that sanctions remain on the table.
 
For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: A judge in South Carolina says no to a new trial for convicted murderer Alex Murdaugh, and his legal team has plans. We'll tell you what they are coming up next. 
 
Plus, as U.S. Senate negotiators inch towards a potential bipartisan border deal, House Republicans and Donald Trump are criticizing that legislation and trying to shut it down. 
 <br>[04:30:00]