Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: CNN International: Suspected Gunman Makes First Court Appearance; Suspect and Father were Interviewed in 2023 after FBI Received Tips of Online Threats by Colt Gray; Father Georgia School Shooting Suspect Appears in Court; 14-Year-Old Suspect in Georgia School Shooting Appears in Court; U.S. Concern Over Possible Russian Sabotage of Undersea Cables; Appeals Panel to Hear Arguments on Trump V. Carroll. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired September 06, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this is the scene in Georgia where a suspected school shooter aged 14 appeared in the last hour 
 
 his father, who is now also charged, will appear in court in the next half an hour. It's 09:00 a.m. in Winder in Georgia, it's 05:00 p.m. here in Abu 
 
 Dhabi in the UAE. I'm Becky Anderson, you're watching "Connect the World".
 
And in the next hour, we expect to see Donald Trump off the campaign trail and back in a court in New York. Lawyers for Donald Trump and E. Jean 
 
 Carroll will square off today in Lower Manhattan. More on that as we get it. Plus, CNN speaks with Ukraine's Army Chief in a world exclusive what he 
 
 told us about Kyiv's surprise cross border incursion into Russia.
 
Well, the stock market in New York will open about 30 minutes from now. We've just had the latest U.S. Jobs Report drop in the last half hour, and 
 
 the August numbers have picked up. Employers added 142,000 jobs that is an improvement on less than 90,000 new jobs in July.
 
The futures markets are indicating a slightly lower open. This will provide a little bit of confusion, perhaps for investors who, of course, banking on 
 
 a rate cut in the September Federal Reserve -- Federal Open Market Committee Meeting. I should think that they are probably not convinced, 
 
 necessarily, that these -- this latest data is going to prevent that from happening, but obviously not quite sure where they are at as these markets 
 
 are set to open. We'll revisit the New York Stock Exchange at 09:30 a Eastern Time.
 
Well in Georgia, 14-year-old high school shooting suspect Colt Gray made his first appearance in court a short time ago. He is charged with four 
 
 counts of felony murder. Investigators say that he killed four people and injured nine others at his high school in the City of Winder on Wednesday 
 
 using an AR style rifle. 
 
He will be tried as an adult. Now his father has also been taken into custody, charged in those killings, and he is expected to appear in court 
 
 later this hour. Let's get you straight back to that court stand by.
 
JUDGE CURRIE MINGLEDROFF, BARROW COUNTY, GEORGIA: I correctly told you the maximum penalty for the crimes for which you are charged. That's correct, 
 
 except for the fact that you are under 18-years-old. So, I wanted to inform you and make it clear to you that the penalty for the crimes for which you 
 
 are charged does not include death. It includes life without the possibility of parole or life with the possibility of parole. 
 
I also wanted to inform you that the court has set December 4th at 08:30 a.m. for your preliminary hearing, and that is, of course, subject to 
 
 change as you secure new council later today and so forth. Is there anything else that needs to be addressed that anyone can think of? All 
 
 right. So, with that you may escort Mr. Colt Gray back out. Thank you.
 
All right, I'm going to step out for a few minutes to allow our media to reset, and then we'll come back in for Mr. Colin Gray's preliminary 
 
 hearing.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
ANDERSON: We are live at the Barrow County Courthouse in Winder in Georgia, where, as you've just heard, the father accused of high school shooter Colt 
 
 Gray will be appearing in court for the first time. 
 
Let me bring in CNN Senior Law Enforcement Analyst, Charles Ramsey, a Former Washington D.C. Police Chief and Philadelphia Police Commissioner. 
 
 And we have just heard the judge clearly answering a question put either by Colt Gray himself, the accused, or by his lawyer. We got to a little late. 
 
 I'm not quite sure who it was who had actually posed that question.
 
But just clarifying what is the maximum penalty, or the penalty for these crimes that he is alleged to have committed, even though, let's be quite 
 
 frankly about this, he has admitted to the crimes. Just bring us up to speed on what we've learned this morning, as we have seen Colt Gray in the 
 
 Barrow Courthouse for the first time since this terrible, terrible event, 48 hours or so ago?
 
CHARLES RAMSEY, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, the judge had to come out and correct some of the information that he had previously laid 
 
 out. More than likely, it was either the defense attorney or the prosecutor that actually raised that issue. Because of his age, 14, he is not eligible 
 
 for the death penalty. 
 
However, he is still eligible for life without parole or life with parole, and that needed to be made clear to the defendant, and that's why the 
 
 second appearance took place. This 14-year-old has been, by all indications, cooperating with investigators. Has admitted to committing the 
 
 homicides and aggravated assaults on others at the school. 
 
Now the father will appear for his preliminary hearing. He's being charged based on the negligence that he showed in providing a firearm for the 14-
 
 year-old not keeping it secured. I mean, this is an individual who had been informed by law enforcement that there was an allegation that a threat had 
 
 been made online by his son threatening a school shooting.
 
And even though the boy denied it, and even though the father pretty much didn't believe it was possible, I mean, to go out and then purchase an 
 
 assault rifle for the young man, and on top of that, not properly secure it at all in the home. So, he had access to it. Is the reason why he is and-
 
 in-my-opinion rightfully charged in this particular case.
 
ANDERSON: Let me remind our viewers of the sentencing of the Crumbleys, who are the mother and father of Ethan Crumbley back in April. Their son pulled 
 
 a handgun from his backpack and began shooting, of course, in the mass shooting incident earlier this year. And it was their sentencing that has 
 
 sort of provided some precedent. Am I right in saying for Colt Gray's father being in court today?
 
RAMSEY: Well, I certainly opened the door for that. And also, there was a shooting even before the Oxford High School that you just referred to, that 
 
 occurred just outside of Chicago and Illinois during a, I believe it was 4th of July Parade where a young person was shot and seriously wounded, 
 
 that father was also charged and just recently pled guilty. 
 
So, prosecutors are beginning to take a look at these kinds of things. And in my opinion, they should take a look at it. Not every case is going to 
 
 rise to the level where a parent would be charged, but if there is obvious negligence on their part, then they need to be held accountable. 
 
I mean, this just makes absolutely no sense at all to be forewarned that perhaps your child made a threat towards school shooting and then you turn 
 
 around and go out and buy him an assault rifle. I mean, that is beyond negligent, in my opinion. And so, I think that they're doing the absolute 
 
 right thing by charging this parent. 
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
And I hope it sends a message to other parents that they're responsible for making sure their children don't engage in that kind of activity. 
 
ANDERSON: Stay with me. Let me bring in CNN's Rafael Romo. He joins us from outside the Barrow County Courthouse in Winder in Georgia. And it's just 
 
 step back for a moment for the benefit of those who may just be joining us, what more can you tell us about that initial court hearing that took place 
 
 last hour for shooting suspect Colt Gray?
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah Becky, well, the proceedings started at 08:33 a.m. in front of Judge Currie Mingledroff, here at the Barrow 
 
 County Courthouse. I'm talking about U.S. Eastern time. Of course, the defender was brought in two minutes later. 
 
His arms were shackled and he was wearing a green top and tan pants. He replied to questions by the judge by saying yes, sir, in a respectful 
 
 manner as he was informed of his rights under the law and the charges and that he faces. 
 
And here Becky, I have to say that there was a little bit of a change from the judge. Originally, he had said that the teenager was eligible for the 
 
 death penalty, something that was corrected, clarified later, because he is a minor, he is not eligible for the death penalty, but he is eligible for a 
 
 life sentence.
 
And let's remember that he has been charged as an adult with four counts of felony murder. Some of the victim's families were attending the hearing as 
 
 well, which made it very, very emotional and solemn at the same time. Judge Mingledroff was making the defendant aware of his rights. He was reading 
 
 his rights and also asking him whether he understood English. 
 
And all this is going on Becky, as the father, is set to appear in the very same courtroom this hour. As for the father, he's expected to also be 
 
 charged as a result of this horrific shooting here in Winder. And for the first time, Becky, we're taking a look at the arrest warrant for 54-year-
 
 old Colin Gray, the father of the alleged shooter at the Apalachee High School here in Winder, Georgia. 
 
The arrest warrant reads in part, and here I'm quoting Becky. Colin Gray did cause the death of a redacted name, a child under the age of 18 years, 
 
 irrespective of malice, by providing a firearm to Colt Gray with knowledge that he was a threat to himself and others of very serious charges here.
 
And that language mirrors what Chris Hosey, the Director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, said last night about the reasons why they finally 
 
 decided to arrest the father. The Director said that the father was charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter, two counts of second-degree 
 
 murder, and eight counts of cruelty to children. 
 
Mr. Gray he said these charges stand for Mr. Gray knowingly allowing his son, Colt to possess a weapon. So very, very serious charges. And we have 
 
 also learned that both the father and the son were on law enforcement radar Becky, because guns were confiscated from the family as far back as 2022 
 
 Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah. Let's just talk about the big picture here, and that very specifically, what did happen leading to this tragedy. I've got some -- 
 
 just some stats for some stats, but a little bit of this for our viewers. In May 2023 the FBI received several anonymous tips about online threats to 
 
 commit a school shooting that led them to the Gray house. 
 
At that time, Colt denied making the threats, and authorities just said, basically, OK, there was no probable cause to take any additional law 
 
 enforcement action. What I've got you here and with our esteemed guests as well. Don't the police have something to answer for here? If a denial by 
 
 the accused was enough to wipe away probable cause, wouldn't every suspect be set free?
 
RAMSEY: Is that for me or?
 
ANDERSON: For you sir, sorry.
 
ROMO: Is that for me Becky?
 
ANDERSON: No, no, no, it's for our guest Charles.
 
RAMSEY: OK, I apologize. Well, Georgia, first of all, Georgia has very weak gun laws. There's not a whole lot that police can do in a situation like 
 
 that. They did follow up. The FBI passed the information on to the Jackson County. 
 
ANDERSON: Let me just stop you there, sir. Let me just stop you there. They're just bringing in Colin Gray now, so let's just get back into the 
 
 courthouse and we can pick up on this conversation shortly. 
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
MINGLEDROFF: Mr. Gray my name is Currie Mingledroff. I'm assigned to preside over this morning's proceeding. This is your first appearance 
 
 hearing, and at this hearing, I'm going to first going to ask you just a few a few questions, and then I'm going to advise you of your rights, and 
 
 also let you know about a preliminary hearing that's been scheduled for you. Why don't you just state your name, please? Can you pull the 
 
 microphone down, please. There you go. All right. And how old are you Mr. Gray?
 
COLIN GRAY, SUSPECT'S FATHER: 54.
 
MINGLEDROFF: And are you able to read and write, understanding English language without any difficulty?
 
GRAY: Yes. 
 
MINGLEDROFF: How far did you go in school?
 
GRAY: 11th grade, GED.
 
MINGLEDROFF: OK. And I note that you have council seated with you at the table. Do you understand you have the right to be represented by an 
 
 attorney at all times for this and all future proceedings in your case?
 
GRAY: Yes, sir. 
 
MINGLEDROFF: And you understand that, of course, you cannot afford an attorney, that the public defender will be appointed to represent you upon 
 
 your request?
 
GRAY: Yes, sir. 
 
MINGLEDROFF: All right. And council, would you identify yourself, please, for the record.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Donna C. Greggs, we are going to have new council assigned to Mr. Gray later today. 
 
MINGLEDROFF: All right, thank you. All right. OK, sorry. Just make sure that the system is working. All right, so the following aren't questions 
 
 that I'm going to ask. I'm just informing you of some things. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can be used against you at further 
 
 hearings or the trial on the charges that you're facing. 
 
For this hearing, you're not going to be questioned about facts and circumstances surrounding your charges. You are currently charged with, and 
 
 you'll be provided with copies of the warrants if you don't already have them.
 
Currently charged with two counts of felony murder in the second-degree. You're charged with four counts of felony involuntary manslaughter. You're 
 
 charged with eight counts of felony cruelty to children in the second- degree. Now for these offenses, for the felony murder counts in the second- degree, felony murder in the second-degree, the maximum imprisonment, the maximum penalty for each count is up to 30 years imprisonment.
 
For felony involuntary manslaughter of course, again, there are four counts. The maximum penalty for each of those offenses is 10 years 
 
 imprisonment. For the eight-felony cruelty to children counts, the maximum penalty under the law for each of those eight counts is 10 years 
 
 imprisonment for a maximum total possible penalty for the charges that you currently are facing of 180 years imprisonment. 
 
If you have questions about the charges, which I assume that you will the court urges you to discuss those with your attorney. Let me inquire as to 
 
 whether there's a motion for bond. If Mr. Gray's moving for bond at this time? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, sir, not at this time. We will allow alternate council to make that decision. 
 
MINGLEDROFF: All right. Thank you. I also need to inform you that you have the right to an indictment by Grand Jury, and you also have the right to a 
 
 preliminary hearing, unless you make bond or waive such a hearing. You have the right to a speedy and public trial by a judge or jury. 
 
You have the right to confront and cross examine all witnesses. You have the right to call witnesses on your own behalf and testify in your own 
 
 defense, if you so choose. I want to make it clear to you, Mr. Gray, that you are presumed innocent.
 
Your refusal to testify at any point will not cannot be used against you in determining whether you are guilty or not guilty. I mentioned the first 
 
 appearance hearing a moment ago that is being set for you for December 4th, 2024 at 08:30 a.m.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Currently that's set to take place in the Magistrate Court of Barrow County. It could be subject to change, but I just want you to know that 
 
 that is the date that we currently have.
 
In fact, Council, could you approach please? I have this, let's see. I need to scratch this document that discusses bond and gives the data the 
 
 preliminary hearing, I guess I could sign that. Then he could just get a copy, and then the warrants are attached to that. I would like for him to 
 
 sign it --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Inaudible).
 
MINGLEDROFF: Yes, please.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And the page continues -- these his copies of the warrant.
 
MINGLEDROFF: Those are provided, and they say service copies on them. So, I assume that they're for him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK.
 
MINGLEDROFF: -- do you concur with that set, with those copies of four?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's --
 
MINGLEDROFF: Was it for the detention center? So, he's got his own copies, or he'll have them provided.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- right. 
 
MINGLEDROFF: All right, so the detention center wants to hold out of those. All right? Let me and thank you -- I want to certainly acknowledge the 
 
 presence of our District Attorney, Mr. Brad Smith, and he's assisted by his chief assistant, Patricia Brooks. Is there anything else Council that the 
 
 court needs to address that I have neglected to address?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, or not at this time.
 
MINGLEDROFF: All right, I do want to thank those who are in the gallery, who have interest and who have appeared. I appreciate the decorum that has 
 
 been maintained throughout these this proceeding, or both of these proceedings today, and with that, this matter is adjourned.
 
ANDERSON: Colin Gray, the father of the Georgia school shooting suspect, appearing in court today. He's been told what he's been charged with and 
 
 the maximum penalty count for those charges. Do I have my guests still with me? Yes, I do. I want to bring in CNN Senior Law Enforcement Analyst, 
 
 Charles Ramsey, who is a Former Washington D.C. Police Chief and Philadelphia Police Commissioner.
 
And as we see these images of Colin Gray being led away from the Barrow County Court. Just walk us through what we have just heard.
 
RAMSEY: Well -- the judge, as he is required to do, during the preliminary hearing, he laid out the charges, possible penalties for the defendant, so 
 
 that he fully understood it. He is entitled to an attorney, apparently, both in the case of Mr. Gray and his son, there's going to be a change in 
 
 attorney sometime later today.
 
That is not all that unusual for something like that to take place. Whether or not he will receive bond or even request bond remains to be seen. The 
 
 current attorney said that they would leave that up to the attorney who's going to take over the case. So, what you saw today is pretty much 
 
 standard.
 
I mean, it was absolutely nothing that was unusual about either preliminary hearing in the first case, of course, the judge had to clarify something.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
But even that is not unusual, that can happen occasionally. He took care of it. So, we'll see what happens. They'll both -- they're both in custody. 
 
 They will remain in custody unless they're granted by.
 
ANDERSON: Which is unlikely to your mind?
 
RAMSEY: It's unlikely in both cases, in my mind, but you never know. And if bail is granted, it will be very, very high that would be set, in my 
 
 opinion, and I doubt if Mr. Gray would be able to meet that requirement.
 
ANDERSON: Right.
 
RAMSEY: And so, I really expect them both to remain in custody.
 
ANDERSON: Rafael, let me bring you back in and thank you for standing by. We've just seen the sheriff there speaking to members of the families of 
 
 those who, as we understand it, were killed or injured here. Just walk us through what we know about who was in court today, they were certainly 
 
 thanked for, as he described it, their decorum in the courthouse by the judge.
 
ROMO: Yeah, Becky, we were able to count as many as 17 people on the front row. Some of those were the immediate families of some of the victims. We 
 
 actually saw some of them get here about an hour before the proceedings. So, it was very emotional to see them there, very respectful at all times.
 
But as you can imagine, this is a community that is going through a lot right now. And yeah, we just witnessed the first appearance of the father 
 
 Colin Gray. He restated his age. He confirmed to the courtroom that he is 54 years old, that he has an 11th grade education.
 
The judge reminded him that he is being charged with two counts of felony murder in the second degree, charged with four counts of involuntary 
 
 manslaughter and eight counts of felony cruelty to children. Now this is very important, Becky, the judge was enumerating every single possible 
 
 penalty for each one of those charges.
 
And at the very end, he said that it was up to 180 years behind bars. So, if he is found guilty, we're looking at a potentially what would be 
 
 equivalent to a life sentence here. Again, this is only the beginning. This is all very preliminary. Both of the father and the son, 14-year-old Colt 
 
 Gray had been given their preliminary hearing date for December the fourth, at 08:30 a.m. here at this very courthouse.
 
But as you can imagine, after everything that's happened here in the last couple of days, a very significant moment for the people, not only the 
 
 people affected by this, but the community as a whole, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Absolutely. Charles, what did you make of those charges?
 
RAMSEY: Well, there's such a high degree of negligence on the part of the father that it's not surprising at all when the judge mentioned the 
 
 possibility of 180 years. Obviously, that's if they were, if he was serving those sentences consecutively in many cases, that is not the case, but that 
 
 remains to be seen.
 
I don't know whether or not he's going to request a jury trial, or whether or not this will be a bench trial or trial just before a judge. But in my 
 
 opinion, the charges that he's facing are appropriate again there's a high degree of negligence in this case. And I think it's very important that we 
 
 remember that this -- that this individual had been warned, in a sense, that there were at least threats being made by his son.
 
He denied it, but there were tips that came in to the FBI passed along to the sheriff's department. So, he was put on notice that -- and then to turn 
 
 around and buy an assault weapon and not secure it, even though Georgia has no safe storage gun laws, just common sense would tell you that you just 
 
 would not allow a child to have access to a weapon like that. You just wouldn't. So, I'm not surprised at the charges at all.
 
ANDERSON: It's good to have you, sir. We'll take a very short break. Rafael, thank you. More news, of course, after this stand by.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson, and we are following the very latest developments in the mass 
 
 school shooting in Georgia. A short time ago, 14-year-old suspect, Colt Gray and his father Colin, made their first court appearances in Winder in 
 
 Georgia.
 
Now Colt Gray is charged with four counts of felony murder. Investigators say he killed four people and injured nine others at his high school using 
 
 an AR style rifle. He will be tried as an adult. And authorities allege Colin Gray provided Colt with the AR style rifle used in Wednesday's mass 
 
 shooting.
 
He is charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter, two counts of second-degree murder, and eight counts of cruelty to children. I just want 
 
 to hear part of what was said in that short appearance, first appearance of the alleged shooter, Colt Gray in Georgia just about an hour ago. Remember 
 
 the -- it is the nodding blonde head you see in this footage is that of the 14-year-old.
 
MINGLEDORFF: Good morning, sir. Are you Mr. Colt Gray? My name is Currie Mingledorff. I'm assigned to preside over this morning's proceedings. Mr. 
 
 Gray, I do need to inquire as to whether you're able to read and write the English language.
 
COLT GRAY, SUSPECTED GEORGIA SCHOOL SHOOTER: Yes sir.
 
MINGLEDORFF: All right. I also want to inform you. Well, I want to ask you, do you understand that you have the right to be represented by an attorney 
 
 in these proceedings.
 
C. GRAY: Yes sir.
 
MINGLEDORFF: And you are, in fact, represented today. Is that correct?
 
C. GRAY: Yes sir.
 
MINGLEDORFF: And Mr. Zane Harmon, you're here on behalf of this defendant? Is that right?
 
ZANE HARMON, ATTORNEY: Yes sir.
 
MINGLEDORFF: All right. And you understand you have the right to be continuously represented throughout this proceeding, and cannot afford to 
 
 be to hire counsel, and this court is obligated under constitution to provide counsel for you without cost to you. All right, I am going to 
 
 inform you of a few other matters, and I'm not going to ask you anything, just inform you.
 
So one is, I want to make sure that you are aware that you have the right to remain silent. You don't have to say anything at all, and it's important 
 
 to understand that, because anything you might say could be used against you at further proceedings associated with your case.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
I want to inform you of the charges that you currently face. In essence, you are charged with four counts of felony murder.
 
ANDERSON: Well, joining me now is senior -- CNN Senior Law Enforcement Analyst, Charles Ramsey and our Senior National Security Analyst, Juliette 
 
 Kayyem. Juliette -- Charles, let me -- let me just start with you. We've heard in court the charges. What happens next for Colt and Colin from a 
 
 legal standpoint?
 
RAMSEY: Well, the judge has already set another hearing date in December. Will have to appear before the court and plead to the charges that are 
 
 placed against him. He'll have an attorney present, but this is inning of a process that's going to take place in both these instances.
 
They won't be tried together. They'll be tried separately. Again, we don't know whether or not they're going to opt for a jury trial or they're going 
 
 to opt for a bench trial, which would mean you would present before a judge. So that's information that we don't have, but there's a second court 
 
 appearance is going to take place in the early December, unless that date changes.
 
ANDERSON: Why is Colt Gray being charged as an adult? He's 14 years old.
 
RAMSEY: Well, the seriousness of the crime. I mean, you're talking about four counts of homicide. You're talking about even though he wasn't charged 
 
 with it, I don't believe, another nine counts of aggravated assault, the people that he shot and that he wounded. Again, everything is based on 
 
 Georgia law, because that's where it took place.
 
But he's going to be tried as an adult in this case. The only thing he's not subject to is the death penalty because of his age, but the seriousness 
 
 of the crimes, and my understanding is that he's cooperated with investigators and actually admitted to the killings. So that's why he's 
 
 being charged. It's -- as he is, and that's why he's being tried as an adult.
 
ANDERSON: So, what more given that he's admitted to this crime and we've seen him in court just in the past hour, what more do investigators have to 
 
 do in this case? Just walk us through what's going on behind the scene sir?
 
RAMSEY: Well, they'll continue to gather evidence. I'm sure he has a social media footprint. There have gone through that, combed through that, 
 
 interviewing witnesses, interviewing family, interviewing friends, executing search warrants which they probably already have, seizing not 
 
 only documents, electronic gear, such as computers, cell phones, things of that nature itself.
 
So, they're just continuing to gather evidence so that they have a solid case to present for trial. And that's not only with Colt Gray, but also 
 
 with his father, Colin Gray, because again, he was charged in this particular instance as well. They have apparently solid evidence that they 
 
 have in order to support the charges that were made against him.
 
ANDERSON: All right, it's good to have you. Thank you, Charles. You're watching CNN. I'm Becky Anderson. And we have been seeing images of their 
 
 Colin Gray and Colt Gray a little earlier. This is Colt Gray's father. The images that you are looking at there, both charged with a series of 
 
 felonies as we continue to report on the investigation into the mass shooting at the school in Georgia just some 48 hours ago. More news after 
 
 this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: At least 17 students have died in central Kenya after a fire ripped through their elementary school dormitory. Now the cause of the fire 
 
 is not yet known, and a further 14 students have also been injured. CNN's Larry Madowo sent this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This nighttime fire at a school in central Kenya, happening in a dorm that housed 156 school boys. These are 
 
 elementary school kids, primary schools, as they're called in Kenya, younger than 13 years old, most of them. At least 17 burnt beyond 
 
 recognition, according to authorities.
 
At least 14 still receiving treatment. A lot of questions for the parents and for the community about how something like this could have happened. 
 
 Parents rush into the scene to try and come to terms with it. Authorities have set up a tracing desk to help them find their loved ones those who are 
 
 in hospital.
 
They're also offering counseling services as investigators begin to piece through that scene. Homicide detectives using forensic analysis to try and 
 
 figure out what exactly happened here. The Kenya Red Cross saying, local residents were the first to get there.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We say thank you to local residents for your quick response. If you had not arrived as fast as you did, the loss would have 
 
 been even greater. Safety and rescue, begins with us.
 
MADOWO: The Governor of Nyeri County, where this is located, himself a teacher, saying the county had dispatched emergency vehicles but they had 
 
 trouble getting there.
 
MUTAHI KAHIGA, GOVERNOR OF NYERI COUNTY: This is the tragedy that has touched us on. There are those who are directly bereaved and those who have 
 
 been affected by it. Let us all collaborate and make sure that we don't see anything like this again.
 
MADOWO: The fire at hillside and the Russia academy is not the first in Kenya. There has been a string of school fires. It led to regulations for 
 
 safety in schools. Dorms are required to have two doors that open outward and another one in the middle clearly marked emergency exit.
 
They're supposed to have windows without grills. They are supposed to have fire extinguishers in places that are accessible and fire alarms. They are 
 
 supposed to have regular spot checks. They are supposed to have lots of other measures that, in many cases are not implemented again.
 
We don't know what happened here exactly. This is speculative. At this stage, the investigation revealed that. But there's so much loss and anger 
 
 and heartbreak that another school fire has cleaned the lives of such young learners. The future of Kenya. Larry Madowo, CNN, Kigali, Rwanda.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, concerns are growing about potential Russian sabotage of important undersea cables. The U.S. has detected an increase in Russian 
 
 military activity around the telecommunication cables that run across the seabed, and it believes the Kremlin could be directing operations to 
 
 disable them.
 
NATO has previously told CNN that it was concerned about Russian activity around cables under the Baltic Sea. Russia has put an increasing emphasis 
 
 on building a military unit dedicated to deep sea research. Well. CNN's Chief U.S. Security Analyst, Jim Sciutto, joining us now from Washington.
 
Jim, you've been working on this. What's significance of these deep-sea cables? And where is the U.S., or why is the U.S. so concerned about 
 
 potential sabotage?
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF SECURITY ANALYST: Becky, this is something the U.S. and its allies are extremely concerned about.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
A couple of reasons, in particular recently, that is that they've seen increased Russian activity around these cables, including in Northern 
 
 Europe. And that they believe Russia may change -- may be changing its calculus, its decision making, on whether it might attack these cables.
 
In other words, that it's become more likely that they would carry out such sabotage. This is how a U.S. official put it to me. We are concerned about 
 
 heightened Russian naval activity worldwide, and Russia's decision calculus for damaging U.S. and allied undersea critical infrastructure may be 
 
 changing. That is maybe coming more likely.
 
They have an entire military directorate stood up to handle this kind of thing, explore and handle and potentially carry out attacks such as this. 
 
 It's called the general staff main directorate for deep sea research. It goes by the initials GUGI or GUGI.
 
It's been around for some time, but the U.S. has seen Russia further resource this unit in recent months and years, even Becky, during its 
 
 invasion of Ukraine, which is, of course, drawing so many of its military resources, but it has prioritized this unit, and that's part of the U.S. 
 
 concern.
 
And if you put up that map back on the screen, I think folks know there are undersea cables, but I don't think folks know how much of our world depends 
 
 on these cables, the vast majority of internet traffic communications, both civilian and government communications, and that means that whole 
 
 industries depend on data and communications that are traveling on these cables.
 
Every day, millions and billions and trillions of bits of information right being exchanged. So, an attack in which Russia would disable some of these 
 
 cables could bring whole industries to a stop or severely impact them, whether it be the financial industry or energy industry.
 
I should note that energy is also carried along some of these cables in Northern Europe. So, there's an enormous amount of concern. These are 
 
 extremely important, and they're watching Russian activity very closely.
 
ANDERSON: If you were wondering about the following. So why do I care on this story?
 
SCIUTTO: Yeah.
 
ANDERSON: Jim has just laid it out.
 
SCIUTTO: We need to care.
 
ANDERSON: -- very succinctly. Thank you very much indeed for joining us.
 
SCIUTTO: Yeah, thanks.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, absolutely. Thank you, mate. Well, in a big report on the U.S. economy, hiring picked up in August, the government says 142,000 jobs 
 
 were added last month. And that marks a rebound from a month earlier, but still below analysts' expectations these numbers come less than two months 
 
 before the presidential election, where, of course, the economy is a top issue, and less than two weeks before the Federal Reserve moves on interest 
 
 rates, if indeed it does.
 
Well, Julia Chatterley of CNN's "First Move" joining me with more. Couple of things to discuss there, but we should just start with you breaking down 
 
 these numbers for us, if you will, Julia.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE: Yeah, good news, like you said, it's a conclusion that the jobs market slowing, it's not collapsing. The 
 
 less good news is, I don't think it underlines or addresses the question of whether the Federal Reserve ends up going a quarter of a percentage point 
 
 or half a percentage point, as some would like.
 
Becky, to your point, the numbers, the U.S. economy adding 142,000 jobs net in August, it was weaker than expected. The good news, though, is that the 
 
 fear factor from July, that was the unemployment rise that we saw, actually came back to 4.2 percent. So, a lot of the people that were on temporary 
 
 layoff now back into the workforce.
 
Then it gets a little clear -- unclear, because we got revisions to July and we got revisions to June, and they both came down. So, the broader 
 
 picture is the jobs market overall is weaker than we thought even a month ago, but we did appear to see a little bit of a bounce back in the number 
 
 of jobs created in August.
 
The underlying message in this people are still hiring, employers are still selectively hiring people, and wages actually saw a bit of a pop higher on 
 
 the month as well. I'll boldly say, Becky, I think that they will cut a quarter of a percentage point on September 18, but there's going to be 
 
 people calling for more.
 
ANDERSON: OK, that's interesting, because, of course, at this point, I think it's, you know, we should be pretty confident in saying there will be 
 
 a cut.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yeah.
 
ANDERSON: That it is just about whether that is what they call 25 basis points or 50 basis points. All right. All of this, of course, is playing 
 
 out through the prism of the presidential election. 60 days to go until the U.S. votes. There will be those, of course, who vote beforehand, but the 
 
 voting booths, as it were, will be open 60 days from now. Which candidate benefits from today's report? And who loses and why, very specifically?
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: You know, I think there's something for everyone in this report, and arguably there should be, if you're a good politician, I think 
 
 on the Harris campaign side, they can say, look, we're still adding jobs. The economy may be slowing, but we are still adding jobs.
 
And that's important. It's the longest run we've had in decades of job gains for the Trump campaign, he can say, look, the economy's slowing and 
 
 it shouldn't be. We know what he's like when he tries to make these kinds of points. I think bottom line Becky, who it benefits most, perhaps, is the 
 
 White House and the Harris campaign.
 
Because what we are expecting, as you quite rightly said, is for the Federal Reserve to be cutting rates, and for borrowers across America that 
 
 have struggled with mortgage rates going up with credit cards being more expensive. That gives them a little bit of hope in the sort of few weeks 
 
 that we've got left till the elections.
 
ANDERSON: It's always good to have you, Julia. Thank you. Julia Chatterley in the house Friday evening here in the UAE, it's 10 to 6 in the evening. 
 
 Thank you, Julia. Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. And typhoon Yagi brought heavy rain and 
 
 strong winds to China's Hainan Island early on Friday.
 
You can see trees battling against that wind, which is raging up to 230 kilometers an hour. The typhoon is expected to make landfall again in 
 
 Northern Vietnam on Saturday. Pope Francis has arrived in Papua New Guinea on the second leg of his Asia Pacific tour.
 
He'll meet with Catholic charities that work with homeless and disabled children. He's also expected to repeat calls for more action to protect the 
 
 environment. The U.S. is giving Haiti another $45 million in humanitarian aid, raising this year's total to over 200, 210 million, to be precise, 
 
 Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced the new contribution during a rare visit to what is the violence plagued country.
 
He says he'll call for a United Nations meeting to press other nations to contribute. You're watching CNN. I'm Becky Anderson, this is "Connect the 
 
 World". Just after 10 to 6 in the evening here in Abu Dhabi. I'm going to take a very short break. See you back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, just moments from now, Donald Trump is expected in court in Manhattan. He wants a new trial in the E. Jean Carroll case. Now remember, 
 
 Trump was convicted of sexually abusing and defaming Carroll and ordered to pay her $5 million.
 
And we are watching for a decision today on whether a judge will delay sentencing in Trump's hush money case until after the election. In that 
 
 case, Trump was convicted of falsifying business records to cover up payments to adult film star Stormy Daniels.
 
Busy day for the former president. And Boeing's troubled Starliner spacecraft will begin its journey back to Earth today. NASA plans to have 
 
 Starliner undock from the International Space Station without its crew on board. NASA decided it was just too risky to fly astronauts, Butch Wilmore 
 
 and Suni Williams back home.
 
They will remain on the space station until February. Well, there is a lot more "Connect the World" for you after this short break. I'm Becky 
 
 Anderson. Don't go away.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END