Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Inside Rebel-Controlled City Of Aleppo In Syria; Rebel Forces Vow To Push Toward City Of Homs; South Korea's Ruling Party Calls For President Yoon's Suspension; Police Piece Together Clues In CEO's Killing; U.S. Job Growth Bounces Back In November; Syrian Militant Leader Speaks As Rebels Advance; The Future Of F1 Racing From Its CEO; Fighting Dyslexia In Schools. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired September 01, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:18]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Welcome to the second hour of CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Erica Hill in New York. 
 
Syria's war entering a dangerous new phase. In an exclusive sit-down interview with CNN, the main rebel leader talked more about what is next as 
 
 his forces set their sights on another major city. 
 
An about face from the leader of South Korea's ruling party, who is now calling for the suspension of the president's power after that 
 
 controversial declaration of martial law earlier this week. 
 
And investigators chasing new clues as the manhunt for the gunman who killed the CEO of UnitedHealthcare now enters its third day. 
 
We begin with Syrian rebel forces advancing south on the way to the city of Homs. They've also captured an area near the Jordanian border, which means 
 
 they are advancing now on the Syrian capital of Damascus on two fronts. All of this of course comes after rebels swept through Hama, a strategically 
 
 important city in a stunning military advance. It has just been one week since the rebels seized Aleppo and then continued their push across the 
 
 country. 
 
The main rebel leader telling CNN the goal here is to overthrow the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Meantime Iraq's foreign minister says 
 
 Baghdad is hosting a meeting with his counterparts from Syria and Iran to discuss the surprise offensive that caught Syria's president off guard. 
 
Syria is on the ground, CNN, rather, is on the ground in Syria. My colleague Jomana Karadsheh was the first Western journalist to report from 
 
 Aleppo since the rebels took over, and she spoke with some displaced Syrians now returning to their hometown for the first time in years. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We're in Aleppo's old city, here by its historic, iconic citadel. And it's really surreal being in Syria's 
 
 second city, just days after that lightning offensive by rebel forces, where they managed to capture the city in a matter of days. And you look 
 
 around here, and it seems like business as usual. 
 
Imam Ahmed never left Aleppo and she says their homes were destroyed. Her children are in Turkey, and she hasn't seen them in years. And she's 
 
 hoping, now that the city has changed hands, that this means that she could see her children again. 
 
Abdo was in Idlib. He's been there since the start of the war. And this is his first time back to a city. He says they trust the rebels who are now 
 
 returning them to their cities. And he says he's not afraid. Syrians have gone through so much, and they're resilient. 
 
Just in the last few days, people have painted over this with the colors of the Free Syria flag. And this is something you see around the city, where 
 
 people are trying to remove any signs of the Assad regime. 
 
This is the Basil roundabout, named after the deceased brother of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad. And one of the first things that people 
 
 did when rebel forces took over the city of Aleppo was topple the statue of Basil, a symbol of the Assad regime. 
 
This is an area where there were fierce battles with regime forces. And since then, in the past few days, there's been an airstrike that killed 
 
 many people. You can still see the aftermath of that, the blood on the floor here. And speaking to people in the city, this is what they fear. 
 
 They fear that there will be more Russian and Syrian regime airstrikes, that they will be back for the city of Aleppo. 
 
Hamad, this is your first time back to Aleppo in 10 years? 
 
MOHAMMED ALI JOUDEH, DISPLACED ALEPPO RESIDENT: 10 years. Yes. 
 
KARADSHEH: Did you ever imagine this moment possible? 
 
ALI JOUDEH: No, actually, no, no. We had in our imagination that we were going to come back. Actually, we had a lot of dreams about getting back to 
 
 Aleppo, but we didn't actually believe that this moment was going to be true. 
 
KARADSHEH: But are you worried about what might be coming? 
 
ALI JOUDEH: Of course we are here. Here, all the people here are worried about what's going to happen because the airstrikes always attacked us.
 
KARADSHEH: But you can imagine living here again? 
 
ALI JOUDEH: Of course, of course. I love my country. I love my, actually, all of the Syrian place, the Syrian country, our country. 
 <br>[10:05:03]
 
We hope it's going to be clear from the Assad regime, all the Syrians, not just Aleppo. 
 
KARADSHEH: Speaking to people here, you get this sense of joy and relief to see the regime of Bashar al-Assad gone, but also there's this apprehension, 
 
 anxiety, fear of what might be coming. People don't really know what to expect from these rebel forces who've taken over Aleppo. But most people 
 
 that we've spoken to say that their biggest fear is what the regime and its allies are going to do. A real fear of going back to the bloody days of the 
 
 civil war in Syria. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Aleppo, Syria. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: My colleague Ben Wedeman has also reported extensively on Syria's civil war and joins us now live. 
 
So that sense, they're so interesting to hear from folks on the ground. Also what we're looking at, this meeting that's being hosted in Baghdad. 
 
 Syria, Iran, Iraq. What are we hearing about that? What do you expect to come of that, Ben? 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, certainly what we're seeing is that the Iraqis are very concerned about the situation in 
 
 Syria, obviously, because they share a very long border with them. The Iranians have invested quite a lot over the years in propping up the regime 
 
 of Bashar al-Assad. So they're very concerned about it as well. But in a sense, it may be too little too late. 
 
This rebel offensive, which began Wednesday before last and since then has seen the fall of Aleppo. the fall of Hama, now we're seeing that rebel 
 
 forces are now on the outskirts of the city of Homs as well. And we're also seeing rebels coming back to the fore in Daraa Province in the south and 
 
 Suwayda in the south as well. 
 
This meeting in Baghdad may be too little too late. We saw the Syrian foreign minister there talking about the need for Arab and regional action 
 
 to confront what he calls the danger of terrorism. But at this point, what we're seeing, given the weakness of the regime and its inability, it seems. 
 
 to really stop this rebel advance, it may be a lot of talk which really results in nothing at all. 
 
The regime seems to be falling so fast in so many places that it's hard to say how much longer it will be able to function properly in its present 
 
 form -- Erica. 
 
HILL: It really is something. Ben, really appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
We are also continuing to follow the developments out of South Korea. The head now of the ruling political party is calling for the immediate 
 
 suspension of the president's powers. This, of course, follows President Yoon Suk Yeol's decision this week to impose and then to quickly, just 
 
 hours later, reverse his declaration of martial law. 
 
The leader of the People Power Party, who had previously supported the president now says he has evidence that Yoon ordered the arrest of key 
 
 politicians during that martial law decree and now appearing to throw his weight behind the impeachment efforts. 
 
Mike Valerio is in Seoul for us this hour. This is certainly a shift from what we saw even yesterday. 
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Erika. That's right. So we have the leader of Yoon Suk Yeol's political party saying in a pretty 
 
 dramatic statement today that, yes, there are new revelations of a list of people that South Korea's president wanted to arrest with his martial law 
 
 powers. 
 
But even so, Erica, the Conservative Party is saying they don't want to impeach him. They think that could be a bridge too far. They want to 
 
 severely curtail his powers. Now in contrast to that, the liberal members of South Korea's parliament, we spoke to a one party leader downstairs, 
 
 we're going to take you downstairs, showing what this building, the heart of South Korea's democracy, looks like and how it is functioning, Erica, 
 
 four days after martial law. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALERIO: Days later you can still see damage inside South Korea's National Assembly. In fact, if we look through this hole, this is where a door was 
 
 kicked through during clashes with soldiers. And you see tables, chairs, fancy sofas, pieces of office furniture that were used to barricade this 
 
 door. It would only be a short time later that soldiers left the building. 
 
(Voice-over): In the aftermath of martial law, a critical question at the heart of South Korea's democracy. Will there be enough votes to impeach 
 
 President Yoon Suk Yeol? For liberal assembly member Cho Kuk, he's confident there will be. 
 
CHO KUK, LEADER, REBUILDING KOREA PARTY: I think more than eight conservative congressmen will join. 
 
VALERIO: Cho was one of the people who rushed to the National Assembly and voted to suspend President Yoon's declaration of martial law. We asked if 
 
 Cho thinks there's a chance President Yoon declares martial law a second time. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
CHO: The possibility is getting decreased, is decreasing, but exists because President Yoon is still there. He is not removed, 
 
VALERIO: Still on the job is Lee Myung Woo (PH), who helped push back soldiers entering the assembly grounds. He took this video of military 
 
 helicopters landing nearby. 
 
We were blocking this door with a big barricade, he told us. Special forces soldiers were making their way into the building as I and other officials 
 
 built a barricade from the inside. The soldiers were barred by the barricade and the people. 
 
The area was sealed off by law enforcement. Kim Yong Goon (PH) shows us how he helped lawmakers climb over a wall so they could get into the assembly 
 
 and vote to end martial law. 
 
I crouched like this. Four of us moved as one team, Kim said. We decided to help the lawmakers get inside the building. Two of us made a distraction 
 
 for the police and I crouched down for the lawmakers to climb over the wall. 
 
President Yoon's office released a statement late Thursday saying he declared martial law within a, quote, "legitimate framework" in order to 
 
 regulate political activity and confront the forces destroying liberal democracy. 
 
As for Cho's message to those across South Korea -- 
 
CHO: My fellow citizens, President Yoon will be removed very soon. Do not worry about that. Keep your conviction. Do not hesitate to remove the 
 
 tyrant. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALERIO (on-camera): So, Erica, we should mention a couple of seconds before our piece started airing, you could probably hear some yelling a few 
 
 meters behind us. That is essentially a cri de coeur, a yell pumping up members of the opposition to stay overnight and to make impeachment happen. 
 
About 60 members, more or less, of the opposition party are staying in this building holding vigil over democracy as it were to make sure that members 
 
 are in the National Assembly chamber just in case something unforeseen, another black swan event, happens here in South Korea and a good contingent 
 
 of lawmakers will be in the heart of South Korea's democracy to vote on anything should they need to do a repeat of Monday night into Tuesday 
 
 morning when they all voted unanimously to suspend that declaration of martial law. 
 
Finally, the opposition lawmakers have said even if impeachment does not fly tomorrow, if their vote fails, they're going to try again and again. 
 
 And if the impeachment vote, Erica, fails over the weekend expect to see pictures from Seoul and cities throughout South Korea of thousands and 
 
 thousands of people protesting because public polling is showing north of 70 percent of the population in South Korea wants President Yoon gone -- 
 
 Erica. 
 
HILL: Wow. Those are some pretty high numbers. 
 
Mike, I really appreciate the reporting. Thank you. 
 
VALERIO: Yes. 
 
HILL: Still ahead here on CNN, we are following new clues in the massive manhunt for the person who gunned down an insurance company CEO on the 
 
 streets of New York. Plus, U.S. job growth bouncing back in November. So what could those numbers mean moving forward. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: The massive search for the gunman who killed the CEO of UnitedHealthcare now entering a third day. And CNN is following all of the 
 
 latest developments for you including this newly released surveillance footage of the man police are calling a person of interest in Brian 
 
 Thompson's murder. He of course was gunned down outside a New York hotel early Wednesday morning. 
 
The images show this unidentified man flashing a smile at a clerk who worked at the New York hostel where he was staying. A source tells CNN he 
 
 used a fake I.D. to check into that hostel, and also paid for the room in cash. 
 
CNN's Omar Jimenez following all of this for us from New York. 
 
So day three of the manhunt here. Unclear where this person is, obviously who this person is. Bring us up to speed on where we stand. 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Day three of not knowing where this person is, who this person is. But we are getting are essentially pieces of 
 
 clues that could be key into closing in on some of those answers. So, for example, we learned from law enforcement that this person actually checked 
 
 into this hostel 10 days before the shooting and stayed there over the course of many of them did check out for one night and went to various 
 
 places across the city. 
 
Then checked back into the hostel and stayed there for the days leading up to the actual shooting. That last check in was this previous Saturday as we 
 
 understand. As you mentioned, a law enforcement source says he checked in using a fake New Jersey I.D. and then of course that brings us to the 
 
 picture released by New York police department unmasked showing the person at the hostel. 
 
This is a person of interest as being described by the police. A person of interest wanted for questioning. Note that they did not use the word 
 
 suspect in the initial release of these photos, as they try to rule out whether this person could or might not be the eventual gunman. But some of 
 
 the context around this picture is law enforcement sources say, based on their interviews, this is a moment where he was conversing with the clerk 
 
 at the hostel and based on the conversations between them, which may have gotten flirty at points, he pulled down his mask, let out a smile. 
 
And while that seems like an intimate person-to-person moment, it could actually end up being one of the most significant clues. If police do 
 
 determine that this is the actual suspect. And then, of course, you look at where this person could be currently. Well, when you retrace the steps of 
 
 the actual shooting itself, the morning of the shooting, the shooting happened in midtown Manhattan, here in New York, really early in the 
 
 morning, just past 6:00 a.m. 
 
From there, law enforcement tracked the route of the shooter, who fled on an e-bike north towards Central Park. As you see the path on the screen 
 
 there. Once this person is in the park, he is seen with the backpack entering the park based on law enforcement. Well, about 15 minutes later, 
 
 he's seen exiting the park about 20 blocks north without the backpack and on a bicycle. So that at least gives some indication as to where this 
 
 person went in the immediate aftermath of the shooting. 
 
The bigger question, though, is where did this person go from there and that's what we're waiting to hear from law enforcement. 
 
HILL: Yes, absolutely. Omar, really appreciate you bringing us up to speed. Thank you. 
 
JIMENEZ: Of course. 
 
HILL: The new U.S. jobs report for November is out. Job growth surging. The U.S. economy beating expectations by adding some 227,000 new jobs last 
 
 month. That's, of course, an important rebound after what we saw in October. While expectations were low because of hurricanes and striking 
 
 workers, those numbers somewhat unsettling for a lot of folks at the time, 
 
As for unemployment, the unemployment rate was expected to remain at 4.1 percent for November, though it did tick up slightly to 4.2 percent. 
 
CNN's Matt Egan breaking down all the numbers for us. 
 
So overall, Matt, a little bit better than expected in terms of the jobs front. That's a good thing. 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, certainly a relief there, Erica. 227,000 jobs added in November. That does show a significant bounce back from that 
 
 messy report in October, which, as you mentioned was driven by hurricanes and also by striking workers. So -- and the unemployment rate at 4.2 
 
 percent. I'm looking at the sector breakdown, we saw a lot of strength across the board, leisure and hospitality, adding more than 50,000 jobs. 
 
 Health care 54,000 jobs. 
 
Government adding 33,000 jobs as well, which is notable especially as Congress meets with Elon Musk and his DOGE commission about whether or not 
 
 there's any waste in government jobs that can be cut. We can see that, at least in the last month government was a source of strength in terms of 
 
 this jobs report. 
 <br>[10:20:10]
 
So the headline numbers do look pretty positive, digging in a little bit further, though, under the headlines, there were some signs of weakness. I 
 
 mean, unemployment rate ticking up to 4.2 percent. That's low historically, but it has moved higher. This is actually the sixth month in a row where 
 
 the unemployment rate is above 4 percent. We haven't seen that since 2021. We've also seen an increase in the number of people who've been unemployed 
 
 for six months or longer. 
 
That figure has increased by 440,000 over the past year. That's another thing we need to keep an eye on. And so investors are thinking that today's 
 
 report does pave the way for the Fed to cut interest rates at its meeting later this month. That would be the third straight rate cut. The market is 
 
 now pricing in a 91 percent chance of a rate cut. That is up significantly from before this report came out again because there's probably room for 
 
 the fed to help the jobs market here. 
 
Just one last point, Erica. The stock market does seem to like these numbers and what it means for the fed, because we see the S&amp;P 500 is on 
 
 track for another record closing high. 
 
HILL: Really something. And really quickly, Matt, I wanted to ask you about these new reports that we have out now due to filings in terms of just how 
 
 much financial support Elon Musk gave to Donald Trump's reelection efforts, it's a lot. 
 
EGAN: A lot, Erica. A lot, like a quarter billion dollars a lot, right? The latest FEC filings show that Elon Musk bankrolled Trump's reelection 
 
 efforts to the tune of $260 million. We knew that he was backing America PAC more than $200 million there. That's a super PAC that was really 
 
 focused on voters in battleground states. But we also found out that he was bankrolling two other super PACs that emerged in the days before the 
 
 election. 
 
That includes RBG PAC that was a group that was had an ad blitz trying to defend some of Trump's abortion stances by linking them to the late Supreme 
 
 Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Also Elon Musk was backing another super PAC that was focused on trying to get supporters of RFK Jr. to back Trump 
 
 as well. And you put it all together, I mean, listen, Elon Musk has really emerged as a kingmaker here. 
 
He bet big on Trump. That bet certainly paid off. You look at Elon Musk's net worth, it's up by almost $100 billion just since the election, Erica. 
 
 He was already the richest guy on the planet and even more so now. 
 
HILL: It is really something. What will come after all those donations? We'll be watching Washington. 
 
Matt Egan, appreciate it. Thank you, my friend. 
 
EGAN: Thanks, Erica. 
 
HILL: Just ahead here on CONNECT THE WORLD, CNN speaks to the Syrian rebel leader now vowing to overthrow the Assad regime. That exclusive interview 
 
 is next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:25:31]
 
HILL: Welcome back to CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Erica Hill in New York. Our top story on this Friday, the leader of Syria's rebel coalition now 
 
 speaking out about the goal of his group's stunning offensive. In an exclusive interview with CNN, Abu Mohammad al-Jolani says their ambitions 
 
 are ultimately to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad and this comes, of course, as the opposition continues its swift advance now moving on toward 
 
 the city of Homs. The rebels say they have also captured a government military base near the Jordanian border. Friday's gains come just, of 
 
 course, one day after the fall of Hama to rebels. 
 
More now from this exclusive interview from Jomana Karadsheh with the chief rebel leader behind the offensive who says the Assad regime must go, and 
 
 also talks more about how he believes his forces have been able to sweep through Syria so quickly. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH: Taking Hama after taking Aleppo, I mean, how significant is this for you right now? 
 
ABU MOHAMMAD AL-JOLANI, HAYAT TAHRIR AL-SHAM LEADER (through translator): From a military perspective what comes after Hama will not be the same as 
 
 what came before. However, I prefer not to be overly optimistic during the battle. I like to remain cautious and vigilant to avoid complacency and 
 
 ensure we don't suffer losses while believing we are safe. 
 
KARADSHEH: What comes after this? What's after Hama? 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): The course of the battle, as for the secrets of the battle, let's leave them to the unfolding events. You will 
 
 witness them in reality, which is better than discussing them now. 
 
KARADSHEH: In a matter of days, you have taken major cities. What's changed? How are you able to do this now? 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): In recent years, there has been a unification of internal opinions and the establishment of institutional 
 
 structures within the liberated areas of Syria. This institutionalization included the restructuring within military factions. They entered unified 
 
 training camps and developed a sense of discipline. This discipline allowed them with God's guidance to engage in a battle in an organized manner. 
 
The progress and execution of plans have been swift with clear communication and adherence to commands. They stop where they should stop 
 
 and withdraw where they should withdraw. The revolution has transitioned from chaos and randomness to a state of order, both in civil and 
 
 institutional matters, and in military operations alike. 
 
KARADSHEH: Some believe this is happening because the allies of the Assad regime, the Russians, Hezbollah, Iran, that they are weakened, they are 
 
 preoccupied with other wars. And this is why we are seeing this happen right now. And the Syrian regime itself weakened. 
 
Is this what is happening right now? Is this why you chose to launch this offensive right now? 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): As you know, we are still in the midst of the battle and discussing such details at this time is not wise. 
 
KARADSHEH: But you faced more of a resistance in Hama than you did in Aleppo. What do you think happened? Why did the regime withdraw like it 
 
 did? 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): The seeds of the regime's defeat have always been within it. It has been effectively dead since that time. 
 
 However, the Iranians attempted to revive the regime, buying it time and later the Russians also tried to prop it up. But the truth remains, this 
 
 regime is dead. 
 
KARADSHEH: In the last year, it seemed like Bashar al-Assad survived the war. He was welcomed back into the Arab fold and on the world stage. 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): The Arab countries' evaluation of the situation was mistaken. Some Arab countries tried to separate the regime 
 
 from Iran's project. This is impossible. Even if the regime wanted this, it can't implement it. It's a subservient relationship. Iran can disengage 
 
 from the regime, but the regime can't. 
 
To describe the regime as victorious is deeply unjust to the many children, people, women subjected to rape in prisons, displaced individuals scattered 
 
 across the world, those drowning in the seas and those living in tents on the borders of other countries. What kind of victory are we talking about? 
 
KARADSHEH: In the past, you have talked about strict Islamic rule. Is that still the plan? 
 <br>[10:30:06]
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): People who fear Islamic governance either have seen incorrect implementations of it or do not understand it properly? 
 
 We are talking about something that aligns with the traditions and nature of the region. The most important thing is to build institutions. 
 
We are not talking about rule by individuals or personal whims. It's about institutional governance. Syria deserves a governing system that is 
 
 institutional, not one where a single ruler makes arbitrary decisions. 
 
KARADSHEH: Many Syrians are happy and will be happy to see the end of the Assad regime. But they're also worried about what HTS rule would mean 
 
 including minorities. 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): No one has the right to erase another group. These sects have coexisted in this region for hundreds of years, and 
 
 no one has the right to eliminate them. There must be a legal framework that protects and ensures the rights of all, not a system that serves only 
 
 one sect as Assad's regime has done. 
 
KARADSHEH: You know, listening to you speaking, you've gone through quite the transformation. Once an al Qaeda leader, your group has had 
 
 affiliations with al Qaeda, with ISIS, and now you are projecting this image of a moderate leader and a moderate group. 
 
What is HTS right now? 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): Hayat Tahrir al-Sham is one of the factions in the region, just like all the others. Now we're talking about a larger 
 
 project. We're talking about building Syria. Hayat Tahrir al-Sham is merely one detail of this dialog and it may dissolve at any time. It's not an end 
 
 in itself, but a means to perform a task, confronting this regime. Once that task is complete, it will transition to a state of governance, 
 
 institutions, and so on. 
 
I believe that everyone in life goes through phases and experiences, and these experiences naturally increase a person's awareness. A person in 
 
 their 20s will have a different personality than someone in their 30s or 40s, and certainly someone in their 50s. 
 
KARADSHEH: So are those days behind you? 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): Sometimes it's essential to adjust to reality and because someone who rigidly clings to certain ideas and 
 
 principles without flexibility cannot effectively lead societies or navigate complex conflicts like the one happening in Syria. 
 
KARADSHEH: People listening to this are going to wonder why they should believe you. You are still a specially designated global terrorist by the 
 
 United States with a $10 million bounty on your head. Your group is a prescribed terrorist organization by the United States, by the U.N., by the 
 
 E.U. and others. 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): I say to people, don't judge by words, but by actions. I believe the reality speaks for itself. These classifications 
 
 are primarily political and at the same time wrong. I define a terrorist as someone who intentionally kills civilians, harms innocents, or displaces 
 
 people. 
 
If we're being honest, many of the wars waged by major powers in Arab, Muslim, and even non-Muslim countries have involved the deliberate killing 
 
 of thousands, the destruction of homes, and the displacement of millions. Even the regime itself is guilty of such actions. 
 
KARADSHEH: But the U.S. and others would say is that you were parts of groups that did exactly that. 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): Personally, I have not done these things. The situation must be understood in its historical context. There was a 
 
 massive war in Iraq that deeply stirred people's emotions, prompting many to go there. The circumstances of that war led people to various places, 
 
 and my path led me to one of those locations. 
 
Given my level of awareness and my young age at the time, my actions evolved to where I am today. I didn't go to Iraq with those intentions. I 
 
 went to defend the Iraqi people. When I returned to Syria, I didn't want to bring what happened in Iraq into Syria. That's why there were disagreements 
 
 between us and ISIS. 
 
KARADSHEH: People would be wondering why you've agreed to speak with us. 
 
AL-JOLANI (through translator): What is happening in Syria is significant for the entire world. This event has positive repercussions globally 
 
 because under the regime's rule, Syria became a source of concern and trouble for everyone. Stabilizing Syria will bring many people back. Today, 
 
 in the liberated areas, about one third of the population lives in camps, approximately one and a half million people. 
 
I believe we can soon reach a point where there are no camps. With the rehabilitation of the liberated areas, people will return to their homes. 
 
 Many refugees in Turkey will likely return, as will a significant number of refugees in Lebanon and Jordan. Even refugees in Europe may return to 
 
 rebuild their country. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[10:35:11]
 
HILL: Still to come here, fast cars, huge crowds, really big money. Formula 1 has it all. CNN makes a pit stop with the CEO of F1 for all the 2026 
 
 details. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: The F1 season closing in on its final lap this weekend. The last race, of course, in Abu Dhabi at the Yas Marina Circuit. In the 
 
 constructor's championship, McLaren leads Ferrari by 21 points, which is impressive. 
 
But despite that impressive standing, the increasingly tense rivalry between drivers Max Verstappen and George Russell is really dominating the 
 
 conversation. Mercedes driver Russell accused Red Bull's Verstappen of threatening behavior after the Qatar grand prix. Verstappen, who has 
 
 clinched his fourth successive title, calling the British driver a loser. The next race is on Sunday. 
 
Even as this season nears an end that massive F1 brand is already looking ahead to 2026. Becky Anderson caught up with the CEO Stefano Domenicali for 
 
 more on the new locations, the new fuels, and of course the drivers who continue to bring in the crowds and the excitement. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO DOMENICALI, CEO, FORMULA 1: It's great because, OK, Max won the title just a couple of days ago. He deserved that. But in terms of action, 
 
 you know, we have seven different drivers who won races this year. We're going to wait up to the last corner of the last lap to see who's going to 
 
 win. The constructor's title has been a lot of stories around this year, so the vibe is positive, it's great, so very happy about that. 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Ferrari haven't won it since 2008. You were team principal back then, so do you feel an emotional tie to 
 
 the Scuderia? You must. 
 
DOMENICALI: Well, I tell you the truth, I mean, I'm almost 60. I spent the 23 years of my life in Ferrari. So emotions and of course experience are in 
 
 my heart, in my brain, and therefore I, of course, am very close to the people in Maranello. But in my profession and in my role today I totally, 
 
 I'm totally neutral. And it's great to see that happening. 
 
And also from McLaren's perspective, these many, many years that has passed through the last victory of them. So that's why this event, this weekend, 
 
 sorry, will be really incredible. The tension within the garages will be very high. 
 
ANDERSON: I still think you're probably emotionally attached to Ferrari, but anyway. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
DOMENICALI: I'll take that. 
 
ANDERSON: Let's talk about the calendar. You were criticized by some of the stakeholders when you expanded the F1 calendar to 24 record breaking races. 
 
 Some argued that this puts sort of excessive strain on the teams and on the drivers. How did the teams and the drivers cope this year? 
 
DOMENICALI: I think very well. They are professional. 
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
They understand that they are as we are in a bigger picture. There's no other reason why we are not doing that is because there is an interest on 
 
 what we are doing. And the sport has to follow that. We need to make sure that we offer the right quantity and quality of events that the market or 
 
 the fans can take, and the growth has been natural. It's not pushed. 
 
ANDERSON: And Stefano, you will want happy teams and happy drivers. So what do you make of the comments from the FIA chief telling drivers to mind 
 
 their own business when they asked about how the money from fines is spent, why it is that a lot of senior staff are leaving the organization? I mean, 
 
 what's your response? 
 
DOMENICALI: Well, my response is I don't use media to respond as you know on that. I think it's a matter of discussing, a matter of respecting. Life 
 
 is a matter of respect. So I would say at the end of the season, when the tension or the people who feel more tired about it, they will get the time 
 
 to discuss constructively because at the end of the day we are in a world where we need to have people sharing. 
 
Of course, you may have different positions. It's part of the life. It's a matter of respecting who you are. But at the end of the day, we need to 
 
 stay together. 
 
ANDERSON: 2025 is locked in. So let's talk about 2026. Can fans expect new teams, new races? 
 
DOMENICALI: New races in terms of quantity, no. New races in terms of places, yes. And there is already Madrid already announced. There will be 
 
 some announcement related to the future calendar in '26 that I cannot spoil now, but it will happen soon. And with regard to new teams, yes, there is a 
 
 possible new team that, you know, it has been announced that is General Motors ready to enter. So looking forward to see what will be their coming 
 
 in. 
 
ANDERSON: I can't leave you with that tease on races. Are we looking at an African F1? 
 
DOMENICALI: Well, we are looking at Africa, but not in '26. It would be not realistic to say they will be ready. We are having talks with countries 
 
 like Rwanda, for example. South Africa requested the interest but I would say we need to be sure that whenever we'll be ready, it will be done in the 
 
 proper way. The focus is there for sure because there is the -- Africa is the only continent that is not present in our world championship. 
 
ANDERSON: The Dutch F1 finishes in 2026. That's been announced. So are we looking at an African race in 2027? Is that the idea? 
 
DOMENICALI: '27 I think will be too premature. I need to be realistic. It takes time to build an ecosystem of Formula 1. But we have the pressure to 
 
 push, you know, the ones that are interested because, as always in life, to have a marriage, you need to be at least in two, not only one. Therefore 
 
 we're going to put the right pressure to make sure that the time will be as fast as possible. 
 
ANDERSON: Let's talk about the fuels, sustainable fuels, for the cars and of course for travel going forward. Can you give me a bit more detail on 
 
 what the thinking is behind the fuels and whether you can introduce these sort of biofuels earlier than 2030, which has been the F1 commitment, of 
 
 course? 
 
DOMENICALI: Well, that has been, I would say, one of the things that we I do believe with pride, we have taken an incredible decision when everyone 
 
 was talking about something different. You know, we respect the world of mobility where the transition versus the electrification is coming. Slowly 
 
 but it's coming. But sustainable fuel is another technological approach to make sure that we are relevant for the world of mobility because we have 
 
 1.8 billion cars around the world. 
 
And if you add, you know, trucks and commercial vehicles, planes, we cannot think that there will be fully electric in a blink of an eye, it will never 
 
 happen, will never happen. Therefore, I believe that F1 will facilitate as a speed up accelerator of the transition between as it is today. Small 
 
 quantity and high pricing. The other way around in a shorter time. 
 
ANDERSON: The efforts that F1 is making on both sustainability and innovative fuels, et cetera. How important are those to the wider industry? 
 
DOMENICALI: Well, I think that everyone is watching at us because we are the only one sport that is based in taking the opportunity to show that we 
 
 want to achieve 2030 objective and we are monitored with the, you know, with the key indicators, what we are doing every year, every month. And I 
 
 think everyone is focused on us because in terms of sport we have built a very credible base. 
 
And on that, I think that we are proving to the world that something can be done in industry that normally are perceived to be not good. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[10:45:06]
 
HILL: And our thanks to Becky for that conversation as well. 
 
Still ahead here, how a group of moms in New York City fought and won to get kids the education they deserve. I'll speak with the director of a 
 
 powerful new film highlighting their story, and we'll also be joined by one of the film's producers, U2's Larry Mullen Jr. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: A powerful new film is being hailed as one of the best political documentaries of the year. Its focus, getting dyslexic kids the education 
 
 they need and deserve. Here in the U.S. an estimated 20 percent of the population is dyslexic, which just means they learn differently. Despite 
 
 those numbers, though, most face an uphill battle in the public school system and beyond. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was told there is not a program in the public school system that's going to teach your dyslexic kid reading and writing, and I 
 
 was like, how is this possible? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My first teaching job, the kids were first graders. They didn't know how to read. We weren't taught how to spot a dyslexic 
 
 student. None of that. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My son, he cannot read. He cannot write. If I don't help him, I know what lies ahead in this country for him. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: "Left Behind" follows a group of determined mothers in New York as they fight to create the city's first public school for dyslexic learners. 
 
I had the chance to speak with the film's director, Anna Toomey, and also Larry Mullen Jr., a producer on the film and of course the drummer for U2. 
 
 It is an intensely personal project for both. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA TOOMEY, DIRECTOR, "LEFT BEHIND": Initially began with my own son. At 6 years old, he was angry. He didn't feel like he belonged in the classroom. 
 
 And when we finally were able to get him a diagnosis of dyslexia, we realized the public school system couldn't support him, couldn't educate 
 
 him. And as a journalist, I realized there's so many other kids, 20 percent of the population is not getting educated or what they need. And so I feel 
 
 like I had to tell their stories of those being left behind. 
 
HILL: And you tell the story to the challenge in getting kids who learn differently the help they need. 
 
Larry, you also experienced this personally with your own son, and that's one of the reasons that you signed on to the film. What has it been like 
 
 for you to see this journey with other families as it relates to what you also experienced? 
 
LARRY MULLEN JR., DRUMMER, U2: It's scary in its resemblance on every level. My son is 29. So he went through the system like 10, 15 years ago, 
 
 maybe even 20 years ago. And today in college, he suffers the same kind of dismissal and abuse in a strange way that he did when he was a kid. And 
 
 that's the extraordinary thing about this story is that it's ageless. 
 
If you're dyslexic, it is something that will mark you for the rest of your life unless you get the treatment that you need. 
 
HILL: And it's getting that treatment that at least here in the U.S. can be really difficult, and certainly in New York City. So New York City is home 
 
 to the country's largest public school district. 
 
And, Anna, this film follows the work of a group of incredible moms who come together from very different backgrounds, but who all have experienced 
 
 the challenges when it comes to getting their kids the help they need. 
 <br>[10:50:01]
 
Tell us a little bit about their story and how they were able to bring the very first public school in New York City for dyslexic learners to make it 
 
 happen. 
 
TOOMEY: Yes. I mean, the film is really inspiring. It's a story of triumph truly. These mothers, six of them, all had have kids who were dyslexic or 
 
 involved in the teaching and education world. And they knew that they had to do something not for their own kids but for the hundreds of thousands of 
 
 kids in New York City. 
 
So they set out to start the first public school in New York City for dyslexic kids and they really wanted to make sure that it was in the public 
 
 system. They wanted to train teachers in the Department of Education so that they in turn can go back to their schools and train other teachers. It 
 
 was really more about changing the system as a whole. They're really taking on city hall in a sense. 
 
So it's bigger than just one school. This really resonates I think across the country in that way. This is changing the way we view education and 
 
 changing the way that we view educating different thinkers and that's who dyslexic kids, adults are. They're different thinkers. And instead of 
 
 letting them fall by the wayside, we should be uplifting them. 
 
HILL: Larry, this is a film that is about a movement and it is about hope. And it is about the power of people when they band together and what they 
 
 can do. 
 
MULLEN: The most jarring part of the film is that 50 percent of the people who go through the prison system, not in New York, not in the United 
 
 States, around the world, potentially have dyslexia. This is huge. It's a huge problem. So the idea of getting your kids educated is not just about 
 
 that you don't want them left behind. If they get left behind, it's left behind in society. Kids who are ignored and who feel stupid are going to 
 
 act out, and they're going to do really complicated and difficult things. 
 
It's a really fixable, solvable, hopeful story with people power, with some -- not even clever thinking. Just joining dots. I think it's possible to 
 
 get kids over the line. And I don't think it takes that much. Although when you watch the documentary and what they had to go through in New York, it 
 
 looks like a mountain has to be climbed. The reality is that this is a hill. 
 
HILL: Yes. And because we know what works, right, to help kids and adults even who learn differently to teach them. 
 
Larry, you also, you're not just a producer on the film, but you brought to songs specifically to this project. And one of them was really inspired by 
 
 your son's own reaction to watching the documentary. 
 
MULLEN: Watching the film through my son's eyes inspired and the opening music, all those feelings, all that hurt, all that pain. 
 
(MUSIC)
 
MULLEN: He starts to relive it, and I think it's something that he just never wants to go back to, although he struggles with it every day. But I 
 
 think it really resonated with him and I could see it in him, and I, you know, I hit things for a living so I was able to use the sticks to try and 
 
 emulate what I felt he felt. 
 
Now his reaction to me was, dad, would you not just get over yourself? But anyway, I didn't and I cracked on with it. And I'm very proud of it. I 
 
 think it does it does give a sense of some of the frustration that he certainly experienced. 
 
HILL: It is a beautiful film. It is a powerful film. It is inspiring and as it has now been put out into the world, what has surprised you most about 
 
 the reaction? 
 
TOOMEY: I think it's resonating incredibly with people for a couple of reasons. I think that people see themselves in the characters, whether it's 
 
 the moms who are fighting, whether it's the kids who have been told they're not worth it. And I think it gives people hope. It gives people the idea 
 
 and empowers them. I, as one person, can change the system and that's, you know, the beauty of democracy and of local politics. And in some ways, this 
 
 is a very political film in just that it really does show how you can get things done locally. 
 <br>[10:55:03]
 
HILL: Yes, it absolutely does. It is wonderful. I encourage everyone to see it. 
 
Anna Toomey, Larry Mullen, Jr., congratulations to both of you. 
 
MULLEN: Thanks, Erica. 
 
TOOMEY: Thanks so much, Erica. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: And you can catch "Left Behind" in New York City theaters beginning January 17th with additional cities to come. 
 
Finally the end of an Eras. After nearly two years of smashing records and captivating audiences around the world, Taylor Swift's iconic "Eras Tour" 
 
 is coming to an end this weekend. Her final three shows kick off tonight in Vancouver. The "Eras Tour" has hit five continents, logging 150 
 
 performances, making it the highest grossing concert tour in history. 
 
The Federal Reserve even crediting the tour with boosting the U.S. economy. Other cities around the globe have seen a little bump as well. The question 
 
 now, how will fans fill that blank space once the tour is done? Of course, there's always the movie. 
 
That's going to do it for CONNECT THE WORLD today. I'm Erica Hill in for Becky Anderson. Thanks so much for joining us here on CNN. Stay tuned. The 
 
 news continues with Rahel Solomon up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END