Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Russian Strike On A Military College In Ukraine Kills Dozens; Netanyahu Defiant As Protesters Demand Hostage Deal; French Man On Trial On Enlisting Strangers To Rape His Drugged Wife; Attack On Ukraine Military School; Venezuela Issues Arrest Warrant For Edmundo Gonzalez; Pope Francis Arrives In Indonesia. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired September 03, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT: A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, we're following two major stories. 
 
 First, a Russian strike on a military college in Ukraine, killing dozens of people in one of the deadliest attacks since the start of the war. 
 
We are live in Kyiv with the very latest this hour. Plus, doubling down Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu, defends his strategy in Gaza despite days of 
 
 protests, these are live pictures to you coming to us from Tel Aviv. This hour, I'll be speaking with the hostage family member about what he thinks 
 
 the government needs to do to reach a deal. 
 
But first, this evening, we begin with scenes of devastation and desperation in Ukraine where the death toll is rising, following one of the 
 
 deadliest attacks since Russia's full-scale invasion two-and-a-half years ago. This video about to show you from the central city of Poltava gives us 
 
 a glimpse of the devastation, destruction really left behind.
 
At least, 51 people were killed and more than 200 wounded in what Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is calling a ballistic missile strike on a 
 
 military training institute in a nearby hospital. Rescue crews are still digging through the rubble, searching for survivors. 
 
President Zelenskyy is once again making an urgent plea for western allies to supply Kyiv with more air defenses. He's also vowing to hold Russia 
 
 accountable for the deadly strike. Well, our Fred Pleitgen is in Ukraine tracking the aftermath from this deadly strike, and he filed this report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Parts of this military educational facility in the central Ukrainian city 
 
 of Poltava, almost completely destroyed, more than a dozen people killed here. The Ukrainians say when two Russian ballistic missiles struck, 
 
 leaving those on the ground with no time to get to bomb shelters. 
 
Hundreds were also wounded, and a nearby hospital damaged. Ukraine's President irate. 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT, UKRAINE (through translator): The Russian scum will undoubtedly be held accountable for this strike. And once again, 
 
 we urge everyone in the world who has the power to stop this terror. Air defense systems and missiles are needed in Ukraine, not in a warehouse 
 
 somewhere.
 
Long-range strikes that can defend against Russian terror are needed now, not sometime later. 
 
(EXPLOSION) 
 
PLEITGEN: Russia has been accelerating its aerial bombardment of Ukraine's cities and infrastructure. A massive barrage aiming for the capital Kyiv 
 
 early Monday, just as children were gearing up for the first day of school after Summer break. One of the places damaged, a management college. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): We got up and it had already started to boom. We ran out into the yard near the dormitory. We heard 
 
 something flying, and something being shot down. 
 
PLEITGEN: On Sunday, with 40 people injured after a Russian airstrikes on the northeastern city of Kharkiv. Responders desperately trying to save the 
 
 victims. "There's an ambulance on the other side", the photographer says, "we won't be able to carry him there", she answers. While Ukraine's air 
 
 defenses often take down Russian missiles, the consequences can be devastating when they don't. 
 
The strikes on Poltava were one of the deadliest single attacks since the start of the war. We were on hand when a ballistic missile annihilated a 
 
 funeral wake in eastern Ukraine in October of last year, killing 59 people. And 46 were killed in Dnipro in January 2023, when a heavy cruise missile 
 
 blew a giant hole into an apartment block.
 
(on camera): The Ukrainians say the reason why the damage here is so extensive is that this building was hit with a cruise missile called the 
 
 KH-22. That's designed to destroy aircraft carrier strike groups. And obviously, when it hit the building, it completely annihilated it, burying 
 
 dozens of people underneath. 
 
(voice-over): Now, yet another mass casualty strike, leaving Ukraine's leadership angry and vowing revenge. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES: I want to go now to Christiane Amanpour here, is in Ukraine's capital and joins us this evening. Christiane, as Fred just laid out a 
 
 truly devastating attack for Ukraine and Ukrainian people. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
Well, you have been speaking, I believe, to Foreign Minister Kuleba, just give us a sense of what he told you and how Ukraine is likely to respond to 
 
 this, Christiane.
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Well, I mean, it's really difficult to see how they can respond to it. They're not using 
 
 ballistic missiles to go into Russia, but what they are doing is from the President on down and including obviously to the Foreign Minister who I 
 
 talked to, is pleading to their NATO allies, to the United States to give them the Patriot Air Defense systems that they've been promised, and that 
 
 they need to give them the kind of weapons they need to fend off what's rapidly become the weapon of choice by Russia. 
 
These ballistic missiles to conduct the war on the cities. And that is really terribly dangerous because, they are so fast and it takes very 
 
 little time between the air raid siren and their ability to get to shelter. Anyway, I spoke to the Foreign Minister and here's what he told me. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DMYTRO KULEBA, FOREIGN MINISTER, UKRAINE: This is just another reason why delivery of air defense systems to Ukraine  must be expedited. There are -- 
 
AMANPOUR: Do you think if you'd had them there, this would have been intercepted? 
 
KULEBA: Well, ballistic missiles are very difficult to intercept, and Poltava is in the east of Ukraine, so, much closer to the Russian 
 
 territory. According to what I know, the time range for the -- for the ballistic missiles to reach the target was very short, and the only way to 
 
 intercept them was to have -- to have a Patriot system or safety air defense system because they're the only ones capable of intercepting 
 
 ballistic missiles. 
 
But I don't know how many more tragedies like this have to occur for all promises to be fulfilled, and for all new commitments to be made.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
AMANPOUR: So, the U.S. expressed condolences, the U.S. National Security Council spokesman did talk about the terror of the Russian regime. But 
 
 again, condolences is one thing, actually getting the material that they need and that they've been promised is another thing. 
 
So, Kuleba told me that they would be redoubling their efforts to talk to their American allies, their other partners, to really try to get them at 
 
 the very least, the anti -- you know, anti-missile defenses that they absolutely need right now, because they say that the Russians are -- 
 
 obviously know that Winter is coming up and plan another wholesale assault on a lot of infrastructure over the Winter. 
 
They've already lost half their electricity capability since the war began because of the Russian strikes. 
 
SOARES: Yes, and Christiane, in the last half hour or so, we've heard from the U.S. -- the U.N. -- the U.S. National Security Council Spokesman, John 
 
 Kirby, who called the strike another horrific reminder of the extent of Mr. Putin's brutality towards the people of Ukraine, and also saying that more 
 
 support military assistant will be coming in the coming weeks. 
 
But as you mentioned, we just heard there. The Ukraine -- Ukraine has been pleading for some time for more air defense systems. I wonder from the 
 
 conversations that you have had with your guests with diplomats and politicians, whether you think that is going to happen, whether you think 
 
 they're willing to go there. 
 
AMANPOUR: Well, look, we've had other, you know, world leaders here, allies this week, the Prime Minister -- the new Prime Minister of the Netherlands 
 
 was here. He made it very clear that all the aid they give Ukraine, including aircraft and the others can be used as they see fit in self-
 
 defense.
 
Can be used to fire, for instance, deep inside Russian territory on military targets that directly threaten Ukraine. So, what we're being told 
 
 is that it's the United States and, you know, France, the U.K., the big donors, Germany who are much more reluctant to allow Ukraine to use the 
 
 weaponry outside of their own borders. 
 
But as the Foreign Minister said, look, you know, we're not talking about targeting Russian civilians. We're not talking about, you know, having 
 
 these weapons attack Russians. What we're doing is trying to have the means to attack what he called these killing machines, these pieces of steel or 
 
 aluminum that come in the form of missiles. 
 
We want to intercept them to save our people. So, that's what they're trying to get through to their allies. And as you can see, you know, the 
 
 sooner they get it, the better, because every single day, every single attack causes more death and destruction. 
 
SOARES: Our Christiane Amanpour on the ground for us this evening in Kyiv, Ukraine. Thanks very much, Christiane, I appreciate it. Well, with lives on 
 
 the line, Israeli protesters have turned out for a third day to demand a ceasefire as well as hostage deal. These are -- you're looking at right 
 
 now. Let's just listen for a second. 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
These are live pictures coming into us from Tel Aviv where it's just gone nine minutes past 9:00 in the evening. We have seen the third day of 
 
 protests now, you can see the anger and the anguish that has been felt and been seen on the streets of Tel Aviv and other cities in Israel, fueled of 
 
 course, by the killing in Gaza of six hostages by Hamas. 
 
Can I just have a look? Let's have a look what is happening as the police circle -- I'm just trying to listen in. We got pushing and shoving there 
 
 between the police and that gentleman over there in the green top, these are scenes that we have been seeing now for three days. 
 
We heard yesterday from Benjamin Netanyahu -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who gave a televised speech, pretty much dig again, insisting 
 
 that Israel will not withdraw from a corridor separating Gaza and Egypt. Philadelphi Corridor as we know, which is a main sticking point in trying 
 
 to finalize a deal and saying Hamas, not Israel, must make  concessions to achieve that ceasefire.
 
But many as we've seen turning out in the streets of Israel says the government that should be doing more to try and get its people home. This, 
 
 of course, as Hamas warned, it will kill more captives making, of course, the grim threat, they'll return in coffins if Israeli military pressure 
 
 continues. 
 
Well, these are the scenes you're looking at live now in Tel Aviv at 11 minutes past 9:00 in the evening. And as I was saying, Prime Minister 
 
 Netanyahu continues to reject calls to do whatever it takes to get an agreement with Hamas. He has been defiant throughout and he's being accused 
 
 by some hostage families of actually stalling efforts to reach a deal. 
 
And that's the situation, the political situation on the ground in Tel Aviv as anger, frustration, desperation comes to this juncture now, with 
 
 following, of course, the killing, the brutal killing by Hamas of those six hostages. I want to bring in our Jeremy Diamond, who joins us from Tel 
 
 Aviv. 
 
And Jeremy, we are seeing scuffles, it seems, I don't know what is being burned right now. Just give us a sense of what you have been seeing in the 
 
 last few hours or so, but clearly, anger and tempers flaring right now. 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, it certainly is notable and very important that these protesters for the third night in a row now 
 
 are out in the streets of Tel Aviv, demanding that this Israeli government prioritize a hostage deal, get the hostages out above all other demands 
 
 that may be sticking points in these negotiations. 
 
And so, while we have seen weekly protests in Tel Aviv since early on in the war, calling for the release of the hostages, we haven't seen quite 
 
 this level of daily protests one day after the next, certainly haven't seen anything like what we saw Sunday night when hundreds of thousands of 
 
 people, according to organizers, went out into the streets to protest.
 
The crowd tonight is smaller, we should note, than what we saw last night and certainly than what we saw on Sunday night. But it is still in the 
 
 thousands of people it appears, and it is the third night in a row that they are making those demands. 
 
And so, I think it is notable that although the Israeli Prime Minister has effectively told these protesters that he is not going to bow to their 
 
 pressure, he is not going to bow to the international pressure that he is facing, that he is going to stick to his demands that Israeli troops remain 
 
 along that Philadelphi Corridor along the Gaza-Egypt border.
 
And in doing so, extinguishing many hopes of a speedy -- a hostage and ceasefire deal. Despite the Israeli Prime Minister's statements, thousands 
 
 of people are still out in the streets still believing that they can continue to build that pressure on the Israeli Prime Minister and perhaps 
 
 convince this government to change course. 
 
Now, as I was saying, there's no indications that, that is what's going to happen from the Israeli Prime Minister. But if these scenes continue in the 
 
 way that they have over the course of these last three days, it will be impossible for the Israeli Prime Minister to ignore what is happening in a 
 
 very central area of Tel Aviv, shutting that street down right in front of Israel's military and defense headquarters. 
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
And certainly, there is pressure coming from elsewhere as well as the White House continues to say that there is a sense of urgency to reach a deal, 
 
 and as President Biden said yesterday, that he doesn't believe Prime Minister Netanyahu is doing enough to get to a deal. 
 
SOARES: Yes, on that point, that last point, the comments that we heard from President Biden. How are those words received? Just speak Jeremy, 
 
 given that we're seeing the third day of protests and the size of these protests, of course, in the last three days and the anger and revolt. Are 
 
 we seeing any cracks, any fissures within the Netanyahu government. What are you seeing?
 
DIAMOND: You know, not really. I mean, what we have seen -- the only dissent that we have seen in Netanyahu's government has come from the 
 
 Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant, but that has been going on for weeks now. It certainly has reached a fever pitch in the last week or so. 
 
But beyond that, you know, look at last -- late last week, there was a cabinet meeting in Israel, the Prime Minister decided to bring to a vote 
 
 this notion that Israel must retain control of the Philadelphi Corridor as a condition for any hostage deal. And every other minister in his cabinet 
 
 voted in favor.
 
It was only the Defense Minister Yoav Gallant who voted against it. And so, you can see that Netanyahu's hold on power in his right-wing governing 
 
 coalition is as solid as it ever has been. And that is despite the fact that we are seeing these enormous numbers of people coming out into the 
 
 streets of Tel Aviv and in the streets of other major cities in Israel. 
 
And it is despite the fact that a majority of Israelis say that they would like to see a hostage deal now over the other aims of the war. For now, the 
 
 political math just isn't there for Netanyahu to have to be forced to change the political calculus that he clearly has made to this point. Isa. 
 
SOARES: Yes, let's see if the protests that we have been seeing on the street and these images from just moments ago that we're showing our 
 
 viewers there, whether that has the potential to change that calculus at all. Jeremy Diamond for us on the ground there. Thanks very much in Tel 
 
 Aviv. Thank you, Jeremy.
 
I want to bring in Daniel Lifshitz, Daniel's grandparents were both kidnapped by Hamas on October 7th and held hostage in Gaza, his grandmother 
 
 was released last year, but his grandfather is still being held. Daniel, welcome back to the show. Good to see you. We are seeing as you just heard 
 
 there from our reporter, we are seeing these live images -- well, from moments ago, but we are -- protests alive of clearly the anger and 
 
 frustration are on the streets of Israel for a third night.
 
And I imagine you like many other of the other hostage families feel this deeply. Just first of all, tell us how you and your family are holding up.
 
DANIEL LIFSHITZ, GRANDSON OF HOSTAGE HELD BY HAMAS: So, since Saturday, since the news we got about the six hostages that been executed in 
 
 captivity by Hamas ISIS terrorist. We are really afraid. We are -- we fear that the next one can come, and that Hamas lost their way, and like we 
 
 didn't see that until now, almost. 
 
And now we see really execution of six young men and women, it was so devastating -- me on Saturday, I was just sitting to -- and trying to get 
 
 to know who are the six, who are the six because Carmel here, she's the sister of my best friend who was murdered on October 7th, a migrant father, 
 
 and when I understood it's not them, it was kind of a relief, but then I understood it's Hersh.
 
And, you know, I feel like we have a new word for hurt, it's Hersh, you know, it's so much pain. American citizen lost his hand, and he was -- 
 
 somehow survived from 328 days and then being executed. That is something - - that is a war crime that we can never understand. 
 
We cannot accept that, and we have to make everything we can now to release all the others, we can't see that coming anymore, and Carmel Gat was with 
 
 me at school, and she is a good friend -- and I'm a very good friend of her brother. I am -- I tell you, I can't imagine me suffering anymore. I said 
 
 today, if there is good in the world, please come, please come to us. 
 
SOARES: And I know that you mentioned, you know -- you know the families have come on guard, you know, Hersh Goldberg-Polin, so, I can't even 
 
 imagine what that moment was like for you, and of course, for their families. Just truly horrific when we heard of that news. 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
But we are Daniel, entering -- approaching, I should say what? Eleven months since your grandfather was brutally taken by Hamas. We are nowhere 
 
 it seems near a deal. In fact, as you heard our correspondent Jeremy Diamond just say just a few minutes ago, Netanyahu said yesterday he would 
 
 not budge on conditions for a deal. 
 
Why do you think, Daniel, it has been so difficult to secure this deal? Of course, it takes two to tango, right? It takes Hamas, it takes Netanyahu to 
 
 agree to a deal. But what do you make of what Prime Minister Netanyahu said yesterday?
 
LIFSHITZ: So, first of all, I feel that everyone has to be more active like, you know, they let the time go, it's impossible that a deal that 
 
 Biden went out and publicly published the proposal in the end of May, and now we are in September, and there is no progress. I can't understand that 
 
 there will have to be much more push over both sides. 
 
The Qataris with Sheikh Mohammed Al-Thani; the Prime Minister, and as he sits together, the President together with Kamala, past, they had to make 
 
 more pressure over Hamas and Biden needs to make more pressure over here. And they had to take the sides and tell them, hey, sit here until white 
 
 smoke goes out. 
 
It's impossible. How many hostages died since the end of May? I buried four, old men from my Kibbutz last week, that they were alive in captivity 
 
 and being murdered. I have here on my back still 29 hostages only from my Kibbutz, Kibbutz Nir Oz. We just suffer. We go out to protest for the 
 
 release of the hostages. 
 
Everyone now after what happened, everyone in Israel wants and knows how urgent it is to release the hostages. They go out and they protest to 
 
 release the hostages. It's identifying with the suffer of those hostages. There, and we understood that the health conditions of all those been 
 
 murdered was awful, awful conditions. 
 
And now, we're trying to do everything for that. We see more voices coming from the U.S., we need more -- 
 
SOARES: Yes.
 
LIFSHITZ: Like I actually wear this -- 
 
SOARES: Let me ask you -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Shirt, like don't forget -- 
 
SOARES: Let me ask you -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: October 7th -- 
 
SOARES: Go ahead, yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: I plead with Biden, don't -- you don't stop. Now, I tell you to don't stop, please, until there's a deal. Because they are dying. Maybe we 
 
 lost 20 percent of the live hostages -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: There. Between 10 and 20 percent in one day.
 
SOARES: And Daniel, you know, we keep hearing we're close to a deal from President Biden, we're close to a deal, but we don't have a deal. In fact, 
 
 President Biden said yesterday, I'm sure you heard him, Daniel, that saying that Prime Minister Netanyahu is not doing enough to secure a deal. Do you 
 
 agree with that? 
 
LIFSHITZ: If he is the one who's supposed to know because the Americans are inside the negotiations, he gets the information for bonds, so, if that's 
 
 what he said, he needs to work for that to make sure -- 
 
SOARES: Why -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: A deal pass -- 
 
SOARES: Why do you think -- why do think that Netanyahu -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Two weeks ago -- two weeks ago, he said the opposite -- 
 
SOARES: Is not doing enough? 
 
LIFSHITZ: Two weeks ago -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: He said the opposite. I mean, so, we need the help now, if Netanyahu is the issue now, and Philadelphi Corridor is an issue -- there 
 
 is a peace agreement between Israel and Egypt. There is an agreement from 2005. I mean, just solve the issue on the Philadelphi Corridor. It's 
 
 impossible that there is -- our Keith, Keith Siegel, I was just now -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: With Aviva Siegel, you know how much you wait for Keith, he's 65 years old, he was kidnapped from his own bed, from the 52nd star, you know, 
 
 of the U.S. where we're supposed to defend together --  
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: And I feel that they have to get a solution, I mean, it's impossible that Philadelphi Corridor is such a big issue that they cannot 
 
 make a hostage -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Deal? Those hostages -- 
 
SOARES: It's -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Are dying there. 
 
SOARES: It's incredible that such a stumbling block when it wasn't a stumbling block, of course, just months ago or so. Let me just finally get 
 
 your thoughts and really for -- on your grandmother because your grandma I think was released in October -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Yes -- 
 
SOARES: How is she doing? 
 
LIFSHITZ: So, my grandmother, you know, we were so lucky to get my grandmother. She was released after 17 days really from sanitarian reasons, 
 
 because she was about to die and she was released really days before she would die, she lost 10 kilos in 17 days. She said that she would never -- 
 
 she would never survive there 30 days.
 
It took her six months to physically recover. Mentally, she's losing all her friends. She lost six friends this week, four came as bodies bag, two, 
 
 their Alzheimer became -- it was a huge advantage on the disease -- 
 <br>[14:25:00]
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Since October 7th because they were in Kibbutz Nir Oz on October 7th. She lost six this week, and she's waiting for my grandfather -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: He's the only great grandfather held -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Hostage in the world, all his life worked for co-existence and peace. He's a man of peace. You know, he fought in four wars -- four -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Wars of Israel, because he believes in defending the country. But he believed that peace is security. He always believed in co-existence 
 
 until Hamas came, and since then, he was taking Gazans to hospitals in Israel and back for chemotherapy, and he was advocating that we have to 
 
 eradicate Hamas. They are our big danger, and he's there. I mean, peace is inside -- 
 
SOARES: We are all -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: The tunnel in Gaza and, I mean, just holding my head for more than 330 days, a guy that is sick -- 
 
SOARES: We can't imagine -- we can't imagine -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: We thought he was murdered -- 
 
SOARES: Can't imagine your pain and your grandmother's pain, and that of all those hostages, of course, of their families. Daniel, we hope we get -- 
 
 next time we speak to you, some good news. Goodness knows, we definitely need good news.  Daniel Lifshitz, really appreciate -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Thank you, and please -- 
 
SOARES: Thank you, Daniel -- 
 
LIFSHITZ: Amplify the names of the American hostages. Amplify Keith Siegel, Zageda Qilhem(ph), my friends from school, he taught me to play baseball. 
 
 We love them. Please amplify their voices and their names.
 
SOARES: Thank you, Daniel --  
 
LIFSHITZ: Thank you -- 
 
SOARES: Appreciate it. Thank you very much. And still to come on the show tonight, authorities in Venezuela have issued an arrest warrant for former 
 
 presidential candidate Edmundo Gonzalez. We'll have more details on the crackdown on the opposition in the country. 
 
Plus, an attempted prison break in the Democratic Republic of Congo leaves more than 100 people dead, more on that story coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES: Well, at least 12 people have died after a boat carrying migrants capsized in the English Channel. According to French authorities, a ship 
 
 was carrying around 70 people on. It first got into trouble off the coast of northern France. Many were forced to jump into the water, more than 50 
 
 people were rescued. 
 
Several of them are in critical condition. The head of Medecins Sans Frontieres in France is blaming the British as well as French governments 
 
 for what happened. He says 2024 has become the deadliest year in the English Channel in decades. And that current policies prioritize border 
 
 control over human lives. 
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
Now, to a story that has shocked France. A 71-year-old man is on trial for inviting dozens of strangers to rape his wife in their home while she was 
 
 unconscious. 50 men are accused of taking advantage of the woman who for years had been drugged by her husband. Police say they found thousands of 
 
 pictures and videos of his wife's abuse in the couple's home. Our Saskya Vandoorne has more for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SASKYA VANDOORNE, CNN SENIOR PRODUCER (voice-over): Gisele wants this trial to be public so that the horrors she lived never happen again. To expose 
 
 the 51 men accused of raping her while she was drugged unconscious by her then-husband Dominique.
 
ANTOINE AREBALO-CARNUS, GISELE'S LAWYER (through translator): She now realizes that there were many lessons to be learned from her own story, 
 
 which is why her first wish is obviously that it should come out. In the end, silence is what the aggressors want.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): The 71-year-old pensioner has admitted to crushing sleeping pills into her drink, raping her, and allowing other men to rape 
 
 her at their home in Mazan, Provence. Over the course of 10 years, Dominique recruited the men over a website that is now banned.
 
BEATRICE ZAVARRO, DEFENDANT'S LAWYER (through translator): Some people believe that he told them that it was a libertine game, that it was, 
 
 forgive me, the expression, a threesome.
 
VANDOORNE (voice-over): After discovering footage on his computer, police counted a total of 92 rapes committed by 72 men. 51 were identified. Their 
 
 ages spanning from early 20s to late 60s at the time of the alleged assaults.
 
Gisele was so sedated that she has no recollection of the abuse she suffered. But for the first time, surrounded by the couple's three 
 
 children, she'll hear and see the details of what was done to her.
 
CARNUS (through translator): The questions their children ask are mindboggling. Who is this man who raised them? What exactly did he do to 
 
 their mother? What are their childhood memories worth? Birthdays, holidays, their whole lives are shattered.
 
VANDOORNE: Dominique claims the other men were all aware that his wife had been drugged and was unconscious, an allegation most of the men deny. Many 
 
 of them face up to 20 years in prison, with the trial set to go on until December.
 
Sasya Vandoorne, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES: And still to come tonight, a closer look at the deadly attack on a Ukrainian military school and how allies are responding. That is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
SOARES: Well, back now to that Russian strike on a military school in Central Ukraine was our top story this hour. Washington is calling the 
 
 attack a horrific reminder of the extent of Mr. Putin's brutality and pledged continue U.S. support for the war-torn country, including more aid 
 
 in the coming weeks.
 
Ukraine says the strike killed at least 51 people, more than 200 are injured, and as many as 18 more may be under the rubble.
 
Meantime, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has vowed to hold Russia accountable and once again issued an urgent plea for western air defenses. 
 
 Joining us now is retired U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman. He's the former director for European Affairs with the National Security 
 
 Council.
 
Colonel, welcome to the show. We have just heard in the last hour or so, I'll just say 36 minutes or so, from the U.S. National Security Council 
 
 spokesperson, John Kirby, who said that more military assistance will be coming to Ukraine in the coming weeks. How crucial is the support? And do 
 
 you think that air defense systems will be part of that, which is crucially what Ukraine has been asking for for some time?
 
LT. COL. ALEXANDER VINDMAN (RET.), FORMER DIRECTOR OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: Well, air defense systems are absolutely 
 
 essential to Ukraine's survival with regards to at least one area, which is the electrical infrastructure, the energy infrastructure. It's been a badly 
 
 bruised over the course of the entire war, the Russians have engaged in a concerted campaign to drive Ukraine into kind of the stone ages with 
 
 regards to power generation. It's had significant impacts on the power grid and let's say places like the capital of the -- Kyiv with rolling 
 
 blackouts.
 
So, that's -- the country writ large is kind of in a fragile place with regards to energy and being a modern society. And then, of course, there's 
 
 the point defenses around critical targets around Kyiv with regards to military headquarters, political leadership headquarters, and then in the 
 
 regional -- regions then to be end up being kind of a, you know, second priority because the air defenses are spread so thin and they have to focus 
 
 on select areas. This end up being spread pretty thin in places like Poltava, which is not that far away from the border. And therefore, subject 
 
 to potentially more regular attacks with different kinds of weapon systems.
 
So, yes, they need air defense systems. They also are looking for, right now, the ability to strike out at some of these launch areas, including 
 
 with long-range munitions, these ATACMS that could reach out hundreds and hundreds of kilometers and potentially strike the firing points that the 
 
 Russians are playing. Those are probably some of the most urgent needs. Additional weapons and the rights to be able to use those.
 
SOARES: And, Colonel, there are reports that this strike on Poltava, that this was a military school that offers training in radar and electronic 
 
 warfare. What does the choice of the target say to you or suggest to you here?
 
VINDMAN: Well, I think the likely fact is that Russians have a whole host of targets that they've been trying to prosecute over the course of the 
 
 war. At various times, they've gone after military headquarters, high value military targets, military related infrastructure, like civilian -- energy 
 
 generation is arguably part of that military or national defense enterprise that they've been targeting.
 
Here, they ended up probably having some pretty decent intelligence that this was a target that they could strike and inflict some significant 
 
 casualties on. This is not too far away from this area of whether Ukrainians have been conducting operations inside Russia in the area of 
 
 Kursk. It could have been related to the command and control of that operation and as well as the high value target of knocking out folks that 
 
 are connected with our operating radars.
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
Radars are, of course, critical to our defense systems. And potentially electronic warfare as well as IT infrastructure that the Ukrainians need 
 
 for national defense.
 
So, I'm sure it checked on, unfortunately, multiple different reasons why the Russians choose -- chose to hit this target now. And it was vulnerable 
 
 as indicated by the fact that, you know, that these weapons made it through. These are notoriously hard things to intercept, ballistic 
 
 missiles.
 
SOARES: And kind of in the meantime, I mean, we have been seeing what Ukraine can do inside Russia. You mentioned that there, and that is the 
 
 recent incursion into Kursk. Do you think we're more likely to see this? How effective, in your opinion, is this strategy by the Ukrainians?
 
VINDMAN: I think the strategy itself, it's probably a double-edged sword. On the one note, it really embarrasses Putin. It bolsters the morale of not 
 
 just the Ukrainian military and the population at large, but it might not be entirely helpful in terms of the military objectives of the Ukrainian 
 
 armed forces.
 
They have a small bargaining chip, potentially, if they choose to hang on to that territory. But the question -- the real question for many military 
 
 analysts is, would these troops better be used in defending the Ukrainian territory in the areas where the Russians are advancing, down in the 
 
 southeast? And that's not entirely clear.
 
One of the critical objectives, I think, of conceiving of this operation, it was to mess with the fact that this isn't a frozen conflict, that the 
 
 Ukrainians still have offensive capability, but I think the military imperative was to somehow drain forces from the places where Russia is 
 
 making gains. And so, far, that hasn't borne out. The Russians have maintained pressure, continue to gain ground in fairly significant areas in 
 
 the southeast. So, this is a very localized activity.
 
The truth will be, you know -- or the final kind of result will be how this plays out in the long run. Does it actually advance Ukraine's war efforts? 
 
 And that's not entirely clear at the moment that it does.
 
SOARES: Rather just being an embarrassment, of course, for President Putin. And I remember, Colonel, President Zelenskyy, you know, say just a few 
 
 months, I think it's a few months ago, that Ukraine is currently fighting with one hand tied behind its back. Our allies, European Union doing enough 
 
 and quickly enough here? Because this has been a criticism from some of the foreign ministers I've been speaking to in Europe.
 
VINDMAN: I think we've been far from perfect in our support. There are certain things that the Biden administration in the west has done well. 
 
 They've maintained kind of a lockstep approach to maintaining alliance, unity, and support of Ukraine. But in terms of the amount of support, the 
 
 tempo of support, the quantity of support, we've been far from sufficient.
 
And I think that we have -- unfortunately, in the U.S., we have an election coming up, where we'll have a choice between somebody that is going to 
 
 about face and, frankly, completely turn on support Ukraine and cater to Russia or we have a very good potential for the Harris-Walz ticket to come 
 
 in, do a policy review, understand where they've fallen short, where we've historically fallen short in countering Russian aggression and maybe do 
 
 more. So, that's the stark difference.
 
One choice is just dropping Ukraine entirely and abandoning Europe, and the other choice is looking at an opportunity to do better. We only have that 
 
 with a Harris-Walz election.
 
SOARES: Yes. And many on this side of the pond concerned over the first choice, as you can imagine, given the proximity of so many of the allies. 
 
 Colonel, really appreciate you taking the time to speak to us. Thank you very much, sir. We're going to take a short break. See you on the other 
 
 side.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
SOARES: While authorities in Venezuela have issued an arrest warrant for the former presidential candidate Edmundo Gonzalez, according to the 
 
 prosecutor's office, he is accused of, quote, "crimes associated with terrorism." Gonzalez denies those accusations. This is the latest episode 
 
 in a crackdown against the country's opposition after July's disputed election.
 
On Monday, the U.S. flew a plane belonging to President Nicolas Maduro to Florida after seizing it into the Dominican Republic. Venezuela's 
 
 government has accused us of piracy. The U.S. says the plane violated sanctions.
 
I want to bring in Leopoldo Lopez. He's the co-founder of the Venezuelan opposition party, Voluntad Popular. And he joins me now live from Spain.
 
Leopoldo, welcome to the show. You, like many others, of course, are well too aware, I should say, of Maduro's repression and his tactics. What do 
 
 you make then of this arrest warrant for Edmundo Gonzalez? I mean, this is a pretty major escalation. Do we have him or have we lost him? I think we 
 
 had him, but it seems like either he disconnected. Is he still there? Leopoldo, are you still with us? Can you hear me? Leopoldo Lopez? Can you 
 
 hear me?
 
LEOPOLDO LOPEZ, CO-FOUNDER, VENEZUELAN OPPOSITION PARTY VOLUNTAD POPULAR: Yes, I can hear you.
 
SOARES: Fantastic. What do you -- 
 
LOPEZ: Yes, I can.
 
SOARES: My question to you was -- 
 
LOPEZ: Yes, I can.
 
SOARES: -- what do you make, Leopoldo, of the -- of this arrest warrant for Edmundo Gonzalez that's been issued?
 
LOPEZ: Well, it's important to understand that this is not a disputed election. It was a clear election. It was a landslide. Edmundo Gonzalez 
 
 against all odds and facing all sorts of obstacles won 70 percent of the vote in every region, in every municipality, Edmundo Gonzalez won. So, this 
 
 is an arrest warrant, not against Edmundo Gonzalez, whose only crime was to challenge Maduro with a ballot box, with a vote, with the hopes of the 
 
 people. It is a warrant of arrest for the Venezuelan people, for the will of the people to change through democracy.
 
Maduro lost the election and the only thing is keeping him in power is repression. He has detained, imprisoned over 3,000 people, around 30 people 
 
 have been killed, shot by the authorities in Venezuela. He has shut down media. He has created a state of terror. And that's the only thing that is 
 
 keeping him in power.
 
So, this is an escalation, yes, but it's also a show of weakness of Maduro because this is the only thing he has left, which is power of the military.
 
SOARES: Yes, and we have seen this, Leopoldo, time and time again with Nicolas Maduro. I wonder whether you could confirm or tell us whether -- 
 
 Edmundo Gonzalez, whether he has received a notification of an arrest warrant. Can you confirm that?
 
LOPEZ: Well, the notification has been public. So, it's very clear that it's a decision of the regime to issue this warrant of arrest. And I 
 
 believe that this is part of what Maduro is thinking to threaten all of the Venezuelan people, to inhibit.
 
It's important to put into context that many of the leadership that led to this election are in prison now. Members of parliament, leaders of 
 
 political parties, activists, even just grassroots observers of the election have been detained. So, this is all in the same direction to 
 
 create fear.
 
But there is an important date coming up, which is the 10th of January, which is the constitutional date for the swearing in. And what we believe 
 
 is that there needs to be not just the pressure of the Venezuelan people that showed massively in the vote of 28th of July, but there's also a great 
 
 need of the international support, of the democratic international support. Because autocratic countries have been quick to support Maduro. Russia, 
 
 China, Iran, Cuba, North Korea have already supported Maduro.
 
So, it's important to understand that in order for Venezuela to transition to democracy, it's critical to have international support.
 
SOARES: And I'll get to that in just a moment, but quickly, in terms of the risks for Edmundo Gonzalez, will he remain in hiding? Will -- do you think 
 
 he needs to go seek asylum elsewhere? Where can he be more effective? How can you -- where can he push for political change, do you think, here, 
 
 given the risks?
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
LOPEZ: Well, of course, there are risks. I, myself, was in prison for seven years. Many of us who have challenged the Maduro regime have ended up in 
 
 prison. And Edmundo Gonzalez and Maria Corina Machado understand this very well. Their main responsibility now is to remain safe. And that's what he 
 
 has done over the past weeks. And he will continue to do so.
 
He has said what all Venezuelans believe, that this is an illegitimate decision of the Maduro regime, of the Supreme Court, and of the prosecutor 
 
 general. And what needs to happen is the recognition of this landslide victory of past 28th of July.
 
SOARES: And there has been international outcry, as you would have seen, Leopoldo Lopez, over this awareness warrant. Many countries have also said 
 
 they will not recognize Maduro as having won the election without seeing detailed voting tallies, really. I mean, first, do you think he will ever 
 
 publish this? And where are we on mediation by Lula, by Petro, by AMLO? Speak to the diplomacy here, whether anything can be achieved.
 
LOPEZ: Well, we hope that something can be achieved. But we know now that the voting tallies won't be presented by the Maduro regime for one reason, 
 
 because they don't exist. The only voting tallies that exist are the ones that have been published by the Edmundo Gonzalez campaign.
 
And these are the voting tallies that thousands of people collected on July 28th. They have the signatures of the witnesses of Maduro and of Edmundo 
 
 Gonzalez. They have the signature of the members of the electoral board and also of the military. So, it's impossible for maduro to show any proof. He 
 
 has decided not to show anything. So, of course diplomacy, we hope it plays an important role.
 
So far, the efforts have led nowhere Maduro remains where he is. And what we believe is now -- it's very important to increase the levels of 
 
 pressure. And we believe that there needs to be an orchestrated and coordinated effort by the United States, Europe, and the democratic 
 
 countries of Latin America to show that they are willing to support the will of the Venezuelan people. And this means important decisions that the 
 
 U.S. government will need to make around sanctions.
 
The U.S. government gave license to Maduro to produce and export the oil through Chevron. This is something that the U.S. should reconsider and 
 
 also, personal sanctions against those who have committed the fraud and have done the repression.
 
SOARES: We shall see if those will be coming in the coming days or weeks. Leopoldo Lopez, always great to see you. Thanks very much, Leopoldo. 
 
 Appreciate it.
 
We're going to take a short break. We'll be back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
SOARES: While Pope Francis has arrived in Indonesia for the beginning of the longest trip of the pontificate, the head of the Catholic church has 
 
 kicked off his 12-day visit to Southeast Asia and the South Pacific, landing in Jakarta after a 13-hour flight from Rome.
 
It also marks the furthest distance that Francis, who is battling health issues, has travelled since his election. Francis is working to make the 
 
 Catholic church less Eurocentric, and include more voices from Asian churches. He has recently appointed cardinals from the Philippines and 
 
 South Korea to senior positions in the church's central administration.
 
While U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer is vowing to tackle surge pricing after complaints about ticket prices for the first batch of Oasis reunion 
 
 shows. The Brit pop band announced their reunion tour on August 27th. Tickets went on sale this past Saturday for their U.K. as well as Ireland 
 
 shows and sold out in less than a day. That song's been in my head all day now. Fans who queued up online for tickets were stunned to see prices soar 
 
 to as much as 4,000 pounds a piece.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL SCHULZ, BANK CLERK: It's the biggest comeback for me to see this band live again. But I think if I see the prices going from, I don't know, 
 
 100 to 3,000 pounds or more, it's too expensive. But I think I'd go a little higher this time to see them. But it's I think it's a little too 
 
 much.
 
SOPHIE CHANNELL, STUDENT: It was ridiculous. My friend bought some for like two and a half grand each, and she bought four of them. But they're just 
 
 too much. Too expensive.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES: Well, British regulators received more than 400 complaints about Ticketmaster saying advertisements for Oasis ticket prices and availability 
 
 were misleading. Of course, we'll stay on top of this story for you.
 
That does it for me tonight. Do stay right here. Newsroom and Jim Sciutto is up next. I shall see you tomorrow. Have a wonderful day. Bye-bye.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:00:00]
 
END