Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: NRA Chief Wayne LaPierre Announces Resignation; Blinken Arrives In Middle East As Fears Rise Of Wider Conflict; Rift In Israeli Cabinet Over Competing Post-War Visions; Abortion Rights Group Says They've Reached Petition Threshold To Put Issue On Florida Ballot in 2024; FDA Approves First State Request To Import Drugs From Canada; Former Olympian Oscar Pistorius Released From Prison; "Miracle On The Hudson" Airs Sunday At 8PM ET/PT. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired January 05, 2024 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:30:00]
 
STEPHEN GUTOWSKI, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, and look, he is getting up there in age. Maybe this legitimately is health-related issues. He just couldn't go on anymore. There was no sign that he would give up the fight. 
 
Although, the timing is pretty suspect on that front. The trial starts next week in his New York case. Things aren't looking great for the organization at this point, as they had been going into this. 
 
But he -- there was a report that the IRS was investigating this. Part of the idea is that he used NRA funds for personal expenses. If you don't report that on your taxes, that can cause problems with the IRS, obviously. 
 
I don't know. We have not heard anything since then. It is unclear whether the IRS is doing anything on that front. 
 
In theory, if someone who wasn't friendly towards him regained control of the NRA, they could go after him as well for how he used NRA money during his tenure. 
 
But right now, his allies are in control. So I think that is doubtful. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Stephen, thank you for being with us. Huge news here as we find out the NRA has announced executive V.P., Wayne LaPierre, longtime leader of the NRA, is stepping down.
 
Thanks again for being with us. 
 
GUTOWSKI: Thank you. 
 
KEILAR: Turning now to the Middle East, we are learning new details about one of Secretary of State Antony Blinken's key objectives during his weeklong diplomatic push. 
 
A senior State Department official tells us that a major focus of this trip is going to be this indirect back channel to Iran to try to deter a wider conflict in the region. BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Notably, it comes as Israel's defense
 
 ministers unveiled plans for the next phase of the war in Gaza once Hamas, if it is, destroyed, is out of that enclave. 
 
Those proposals have caused an international rift inside the Israeli cabinet. 
 
We have CNN international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson, joining us now from Tel Aviv. 
 
Nic, Israel's defense minister laying out his vision for Gaza. It doesn't exactly lineup with the U.S. version of what they want, their goals, for a post-Hamas Gaza. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: It doesn't. When Secretary Blinken left, he left with the understanding that Israel was going to work towards these objectives and really frame out and and game out the end-of-war scenario, the next-day scenario, if you will. 
 
What the defense minister is presenting and has presented is a three- page document that lays out the next phase, or the phase that when phase three, it's going after tunnels and special operation forces in northern Gaza and southern Gaza. It is going after the Hamas leadership and aiming to free the hostages.
 
The phase four, the day after that Secretary Blinken will be looking at. We already know what Israel is achieving in terms of providing security. Downing the amount of firepower used. Maintaining security and humanitarian supplies for the civilians inside Gaza. That is falling short. 
 
But, OK, so the day after part? That is going to seem very thin, I suspect, from what Secretary Blinken is looking for, is roughed out in uncertain terms. 
 
It is an environment where Hamas is no longer a threat. Well, Israel had already kind of laid that out. It is an environment where there will be no Israeli civilians, which was sort of always the case. 
 
It will be an environment where the IDF will be able to continue military operations as needed. That was sort of on the agenda already. 
 
But here is the catch. There is no definitive way of how you get to some political authority there, some Palestinian political authority. 
 
There is a rough framework, if you will, that the United States with European partners and regional partners will find a way to sort of head up the humanitarian reconstruction effort in Gaza. That they will be the point of contact. 
 
But Israel will really sort of have control over the security parameters coming in and out of Gaza, as well. So it is lacking in detail. 
 
That, I suspect, is an area where Secretary Blinken is going to say, look, OK, give me more detail. How do we even get to that? What is your timeframe for getting to that? Where is there any idea of a ceasefire? 
 
There is no mention, as far as we know, in that three-page document of a ceasefire. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Nic Robertson, thank you for that. 
 <br>[13:34:27]
 
Still ahead, an abortions right group in Florida getting enough signatures to get the issue on the ballot in the state. We are going to talk to one of the leaders about the challenges that they could face before voters could have a say. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: In Florida, abortion could be on the ballot this year. Abortion rights groups saying they have enough petition signatures to bring a state constitutional amendment protecting the right to an abortion to a vote in 2024. 
 
Its language would still need to be approved by the state Supreme Court. It is currently being challenged by Florida's attorney general. 
 
If this makes it to the ballot, it would require at least 60 percent of voters to pass. It would effectively undo Florida's current 15-week abortion ban. 
 
Since the Dobbs decision, abortion rights advocates have won ballot initiative, expanding more protecting access in Michigan, Vermont, California and Ohio. They have blocked attempts to restrict access in Kansas, Kentucky and Montana. 
 
Joining us now is Lauren Brenzel. She is a campaign director for Floridians Protecting Freedoms, the group behind a ballot initiative in Florida. 
 
Thank you so much for being with us. 
 
If this makes it past the Supreme Court -- and I just want to read to folks, this is what the Supreme Court will have to, essentially, improve here. 
 
It says, "No law shall prohibit, penalize, delay or restrict abortion before viability, or when necessary, to protect the patient's health, as determined by the patient's health care provider." 
 <br>[13:40:01]
 
Do you think that the Supreme Court will take issue with this? 
 
LAUREN BRENZEL, CAMPAIGN DIRECTOR, FLORIDIANS PROTECTING FREEDOM: I think that the Supreme Court's ruling on this is narrow. It has to do with whether or not our language is clear and concise, if it is a single subject and if it's clear to voters. 
 
By reading it out loud, you can see here how clear that text is. We feel really solid about our language. We feel that every voter in Florida should be given the opportunity to have a say on this important matter. 
 
KEILAR: When you have Florida's attorney general challenging the language, obviously, they are making the point that it is not as clear as you say that it is, right? They are disagreeing with you here. 
 
Words like "health," "liability" and "health care provider" are vague and confusing, according to the challenge here. It is aimed at tricking voters. 
 
What is your response to that? 
 
BRENZEL: We know that this is a hollow and politically motivated argument by the A.G.'s office. Viability is well defined in the abortion context. In fact, it is defined in Florida statute. 
 
The same definitions were used in our fiscal impact. These are not legal arguments, their political arguments. 
 
KEILAR: Governor DeSantis was asked about his proposed abortion ban, six-week ban, in CNN's town hall. Let's listen to the exchange. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: The six-week abortion bill that you signed earlier this year, that still has exceptions. Those exceptions, I want to talk about them. 
 
For rape or incest, a woman would only have up to 15 weeks to get an abortion. And only if the woman brings a police report, a restraining order, medical record or a court document to her appointment. 
 
For fetal abnormality, that exception requires a sign-off of two doctors. Do you think those limits are reasonable? 
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL): Those are exceptions that have been talked about for many, many years. The legislature put that in very carefully. And, yes, of course, I think they are reasonable. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: What is your reaction to that? 
 
BRENZEL: This is what happens when politicians try to dictate medical policy. There is a lack of understanding for every pregnancy and the different circumstances that can occur during a pregnancy, that may lead to a need for abortion access. 
 
I think about women like Deborah Dover in Florida who confined to physicians who would certify that she had a fetal abnormality. She was forced to give birth to a child who did not survive outside of the womb. 
 
I think a woman like Tania Cook, who was forced to travel to South Carolina to receive medical care in a really harrowing emergency medical situation. 
 
It is really clear these exceptions aren't working, the abortion bans aren't working. Florida voters know that and they deserve a chance to have their voices heard. 
 
KEILAR: You are speaking a little to this now. But currently, with that 15-week ban in place, Governor DeSantis signing that six-week ban, it is not in effect yet because it seems the Supreme Court has to take a look at it. 
 
As you detail some of the issues that you have seen, even with a 15- week ban, some examples of what women in Florida have gone through, how does that change going from 15 to six in your opinion? 
 
BRENZEL: We are already seeing these dangerous circumstances with a 15-week abortion ban. The reality is the majority of people access abortions well before 15 weeks. 
 
You can only imagine what we will face him Florida when a near total abortion ban goes into effect. 
 
There also is no easily accessible place for patients to go here in Florida. We are surrounded by states that already have abortion bans enacted. 
 
The states that don't aren't able to take Florida's patient base. We are the third most-populous state in the nation. There are millions of women who live here who may need access to abortion care. 
 
The other thing we need to talk about is OB/GYN's are heavily criminalized by these bills. The likelihood is this will only impact folks who need access to abortion, but it will impact individuals who need general OB/GYN care, whether for pregnancy or just for the regular course of their life. 
 
Because there is a drain that is going to happen with providers feel the fear of criminalization in order to care for their patients. 
 
KEILAR: Lauren, thank you so much for being with us. We will continue to follow this issue. 
 
BRENZEL: Thanks so much. 
 <br>[14:44:08]
 
KEILAR: Still ahead, a major move for cheaper meds in the U.S. The FDA has approved the first state request to import drugs from Canada. Who is getting the drugs first? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Now to a major move towards cheaper meds in the United States. The FDA has approved the first a request to import drugs from Canada, making this the first time a state has been able to buy lower- cost medications from abroad. The first state to get it? Florida. 
 
CNN medical correspondent, Meg Tirrell, has the details. 
 
Meg, which drugs are going to be coming from Canada? And why Florida? 
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Boris, states have to apply for this ability from the FDA. This was, of course, something that Governor Ron DeSantis and his administration implied for. 
 
It is also something that President Biden's administration has been pushing for when they issued an executive order directing the FDA to work with states on these potential proposals to try to lower drug prices. 
 
The reason why Canada here is because drug prices are three times higher in the United States than they are in Canada, on average. As, of course, it is a situation for many countries around the world. That is according to a Rand report. 
 
In terms of the drugs that Florida may start with, a list of groups of drugs, including for HIV/AIDS, diabetes, hepatitis C and mental illness. 
 
They say they are going to supply these to patients on their Medicaid programs, as well as patients getting care through the state programs, and to patients in correctional facilities in Florida -- Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: So, Meg, what happens next? 
 
TIRRELL: This is going to be a timely process. Florida still has to do a number of things in order to actually be able to import these drugs. 
 
The FDA says it has to submit additional specific information on the drugs that it wants to import for FDA's review. That's to ensure those drugs are tested for authenticity and compliance with FDA standards. And it has to relabel the drugs to be consistent with FDA labeling. 
 
There are still a lot of things that Florida has to go through in order to make this a reality. 
 <br>[14:50:02]
 
SANCHEZ: And obviously, there are, politically, some opponents to this plan. Who is against it? 
 
TIRRELL: Well, Canada has some concerns. They are smaller country than the United States. 
 
Florida is not the only state that wants to do this. Canada is worried about drug shortages, potentially, if Florida and more states start to try to import more drugs because prices are lower in Canada. 
 
Of course, the pharmaceutical industry is also really against this plan. They put out a statement calling it, quote, "reckless," saying, quote, "The importation of unapproved medicines, whether from Canada or elsewhere in the world, poses a serious danger to public health." 
 
Pharma, the lobbying group for the industry, says it is considering all options from preventing this policy of harming patients. 
 
So, Boris, we could potentially see lawsuits. We will have to see if and when this actually becomes reality. 
 
SANCHEZ: A potential fight looming.
 
Meg Tirrell, thanks so much for your report. 
 
KEILAR: Now to some of the other headlines we are watching this hour.
 
Verizon Wireless customers will be notified if they are eligible to claim part of a $100 million proposed settlement. It resolves a class- action lawsuit that claims that Verizon's administrative fees were unfair and not properly disclosed to customers. 
 
Verizon denies the claims. But with the settlement, the affected customers would receive up to $100. 
 
An update on the story we covered yesterday involving popular weight loss and diabetes drugs, Ozempic and Wegovy. A major new study backed by the National Institute of Health finding that those drugs are not linked to an increased risk of suicidal saw thoughts. 
 
Days ago, the FDA said they were investigating multiple reports of suicidal thinking among Ozempic and Wegovy patients. The study found that suicidal ideation is less common for patients taking Ozempic and Wegovy compared to other medications. 
 
The latest U.S. jobs report showing the economy added 216,000 jobs in December, surpassing expectation. The unemployment rate unchanged from the previous month remaining at 3.7 percent. 
 
Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: After almost nine years in prison, former Olympic sprinter, Oscar Pretorius, is out on parole. A parole board granting his petition in November after serving half of his 13-year sentence for killing his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, on Valentine's Day back in 2013. 
 
Pistorius has maintained that he thought Steenkamp was an intruder when he shot her four times through a locked bathroom door. 
 
CNN's David McKenzie has the latest from South Africa.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the disgraced former Olympian, Oscar Pistorius, was released on parole on Friday here in South Africa from a prison west of Pretoria. There were no images of him as he was released. 
 
And his parole conditions are pretty strict. He will be confined to his uncle's house in a suburb of Pretoria. He cannot speak to the media. He can't venture out beyond the compound. His parole lasts until 2029. That is of far cry from where Oscar Pistorius was more than 10 years
 
 ago when he was a global icon in many senses. Getting over a disability, was amputated below the knee at a young age and ended up competing in the able-bodied Olympics in 2012 in London. 
 
It was months after that, the morning of Valentine's Day of 2013 where he shot four times through a locked bathroom door killing his then- girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp. 
 
Now he was eventually convicted of murder for that crime. Oscar Pistorius is now on parole. 
 
The family of Reeva Steenkamp said that they are feeling that the pain is still raw and very real.
 
David McKenzie, in South Africa. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: David, thank you so much for that report. 
 <br>[14:53:53]
 
We are just a few minutes away from President Biden's first speech of the 2024 election season. His message? Democracy is on the line. CNN has full coverage, ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:58:31]
 
KEILAR: Fifteen years ago this month, if you can believe it, Captain Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger pulled out one of the most famous emergency landings in modern aviation history when he landed U.S. Airways flight 1549 in the middle of the Hudson River. 
 
This Sunday, "THE WHOLE STORY" with Anderson Cooper looks back at the harrowing details. 
 
Here's a preview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHESLEY "SULLY" SULLENBERGER, CAPTAIN, FLIGHT 1549: In the 208 seconds that we had from the time we get from until we had landed, I knew I had to take at least a few seconds of that time to make an announcement in the cabin to tell the flight attendants and the passengers that we are making an emergency landing. 
 
I said this is the captain, brace for impact. I could hear the flight attendants in the front begin shouting their commands to the passengers in unison, "brace, brace, brace, heads down, stay down" over and over again. 
 
VALLIE COLLINS, PASSENGER, FLIGHT 1549: I sent my husband, Steve, a text message that was just one sentence that said, "My flight is crashing, period." 
 
As I was typing it, my seatmate, he said, "Put that up." He said, "You are out of time." 
 
That is a sentence that hit me like a ton of bricks. I was like, really? At 37? I'm out of time? 
 
I'm not going to be the mother of the bride. I am not going to see my youngest son. I'm not a perfect mother but I am their mother. And to think that I would not finish raising them was pretty hard. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)