Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Interview With Lisa of Blackpink; Hong Kong Celebrates 2025. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired December 31, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:02]
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN HOST:  They send the time code to the barges, the pontiff -- sorry -- the pontoons, to the tops of the skyscrapers, what have you, and then the big show is going to happen. 
 
We're now less than 20 seconds away, Brianna, and we're going to be counting down in just a moment. I'm hoping the crowds here are going to play along. There's some 10,000 people who are here along Kowloon on this side. 
 
Here we go. It's countdown. 
 
Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Woo! 
 
(CHEERING)
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
(MUSIC)
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
(MUSIC) 
 
(CHEERING) 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST:  Beautiful fireworks over Victoria Harbor, lighting up the sky there, and, Kristie, really, really living up to that theme, the Symphony of Happiness. 
 
I feel like that was Hong Kong laying down the gauntlet, saying, hey, world, match this. And it's going to be very difficult. 
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
LU STOUT:  You're right. 2025 has got to be a better year. We're telling you so. 
 
And did you see some of the pyrotechnic displays just now? Did you see the hearts, the lasers, and, as promised, the rainbow smoke with the silver fireworks? Brianna, it was like an '80s teenage dream. And the pyrotechnic master here in Hong Kong delivered tonight. And, as you like to point out, and I'm just going to rub it in, I'm
 
 already in the future, baby. It is 2025 here in Hong Kong. From the future, I'm wishing you and all our crews a happy new year. 
 
KEILAR:  I will say, Kristie, it is looking bright and glittery there in 2025, sparkly and fresh and new. 
 
LU STOUT:  And the party, Brianna, it doesn't end tonight, because, just a couple weeks from now, the end of January is going to be the lunar new year. So expect more fireworks, more big crowds, more big parties, as we usher in the year of the snake, more celebration ahead. 
 
But, for the meantime, let's just revel in the fact that I'm already in the future. It's 2025. Boom.
 
Brianna, thank you so much. Take care.
 
KEILAR:  And a happy new year to you, Kristie. 
 
LU STOUT:  Happy new year to you, my friend. 
 
And, please, to everyone watching, keep it here, because, still ahead, there's more parties to come. We know Bangkok, they know how to party, as they are getting ready to say goodbye to 2024 and ring in the new year. 
 
And Will Ripley is joining us from Bangkok, where he just wrapped up an amazing interview. 
 
Will, tell us all about it. 
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  That's right, Kristie. 
 
Just minutes before taking the stage here at ICONSIAM, global superstar Lisa sat down with CNN. We're going to show you the whole clip next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:19:40]
 
LU STOUT:  My friends, you are looking at Hong Kong and Taipei welcoming 2025 with spectacular style. 
 
Just a few minutes ago here in Hong Kong, the stunning light show is meant to convey hopes for happiness in the new year, as well as wishes for prosperity and the promise of new beginnings. And, as you can see, it did not disappoint.
 
Now, Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, and parts of Indonesia are all up next. They're going to ring in the new year just over a half-an- hour from now. 
 <br>[11:20:10] And I want to take you back to Bangkok, where huge street parties are under way. Locals and tourists alike are gearing up for an unforgettable fireworks and traffic, as the anticipation there is building by the minute, as revelers there watch the clock tick down. 
 
Now, my pal Will Ripley joins us now once again live from Bangkok, where, again, the excitement is building. 
 
And, Will, just a few moments ago, you got to talk to a global headliner there in the kingdom, Lisa from Blackpink. What did she share with you? 
 
RIPLEY:  Oh, you know what she is prettier and even nicer in person than she comes across on screen, which is pretty incredible, because she has 105 million followers on Instagram alone. By population, that would make it the 15th largest country in the world. 
 
And yet she was incredibly humble, talking about the fact that she's actually nervous here at ICONSIAM in Bangkok tonight, where, for the first time, she's the headliner for a New Year's Eve countdown. Yes she's been a headliner at Coachella. She's filled stadiums. She's been performing with Blackpink for years, but, tonight, she is here solo.
 
And just minutes ago, we were able to speak with her exclusively. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
RIPLEY:  I'm here with Lisa. And I think I have to pinch myself that I'm actually seeing you in person. It's so nice to meet you. Thank you for taking the time. 
 
How does it feel to be back in Bangkok, where this all began when you were 13 and auditioning to join Blackpink? 
 
LISA, MUSICIAN:  No, it's always good to be back in Thailand to see my family and friends. So I'm so happy to be back. 
 
RIPLEY:  I met a couple of your super fans outside, and -- Vivian and Sasa. And they wanted me to ask you what you miss the most about Thailand. 
 
LISA:  What I miss the most about Thailand, I would say food, Thai food. You know, like when you go out of Thailand, you find -- try to find good Thai food, but, sometimes, it doesn't have like the real taste. 
 
RIPLEY:  It's hard to find. 
 
LISA:  Yes, it's really hard to find, yes.
 
RIPLEY:  Do you have a favorite food that we can tell -- share people what it is, your favorite dish? 
 
LISA:  My favorite Thai dish?
 
RIPLEY:  Thai dish, yes. LISA:  Tom yum kung. 
 
RIPLEY:  You recommend? 
 
LISA:  Tom yum kung. I recommend Tom yum kung, and, like, pad thai. 
 
RIPLEY:  Oh, of course...
 
LISA:  Pad thai, of course.
 
RIPLEY:  ... which is my favorite. 
 
LISA:  Yes.
 
RIPLEY:  I have had pad thai probably three times already since I have been here. I have been here only three days. 
 
LISA:  I had pad thai today as well. 
 
RIPLEY:  You did?
 
LISA:  Yes, before show. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
RIPLEY:  So this is your first countdown performance. You have done Coachella. You have head -- I mean, you have filled stadiums. How does it feel to be here at ICONSIAM and to be the headliner in your hometown with, like, tens of thousands of people? The streets are packed. The hotels are full. 
 
LISA:  I know.
 
RIPLEY:  Everybody's talking about you being here. 
 
LISA:  I'm super nervous and excited at the same time, because it's my first -- like what you said, it's my first countdown show ever.
 
And it happened to be in Thailand, so it's more meaningful to me and to my fans as well. 
 
RIPLEY:  I mean, people -- you mean so much to people that I have been speaking to. Just they're so proud of you and you give them hope and inspiration. 
 
So do you have any message for your fans that are here, that are watching this? 
 
LISA:  Well, I just want everyone to be happy. And right now, we're -- go towards the new year, so maybe next year, have, like, good things come in, in...
 
RIPLEY:  Speaking of good things...
 
LISA:  Yes.
 
RIPLEY:  ... you have had an amazing year. You're wrapping up an amazing year. What do you have planned for 2025? 
 
LISA:  Oh, there's a lot. I have like a full list.
 
Well, I'm releasing my full -- my first full album soon, in February 28.
 
RIPLEY:  Wow.
 
LISA:  And I'm having a first debut, acting debut.
 
RIPLEY:  "White Lotus."
 
LISA:  With the "White Lotus" season three. 
 
RIPLEY:  Oh, my God, I saw the preview. It looked really -- you were, like, right there. It looked amazing. 
 
You should check it out if you haven't seen it. 
 
LISA:  Yes, and also Coachella. 
 
RIPLEY:  Wow. 
 
LISA:  This is my solo performance, Coachella, the first time. 
 
RIPLEY:  So it's just first after first and you're just killing it with everything. I can't believe you said earlier you get nervous. I can't imagine you being nervous, because we see you just so flawless. 
 
LISA:  Oh, no, I'm a good actor. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
RIPLEY:  Fake it until you make it is what I used to...
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
LISA:  That's right. 
 
RIPLEY:  Well, you're doing amazing. And it's such an honor to meet you. 
 
Congratulations. Happy new year. Anything else you want to say before we say goodbye? 
 
LISA:  Well, happy new year everyone. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY:  And Lisa just took the stage here at ICONSIAM moments ago, seconds ago. 
 
I can hear the music. I wish that we could show you the performance. I wish we could take it up full, but for reasons that are above my pay grade, we cannot due to licensing issues. So I apologize for that, but I hope you enjoyed the interview. 
 <br>[11:25:04]
 
It was great meeting her. I can't wait to watch the show right behind me -- Lisa. 
 
LU STOUT:  Oh, my gosh. Enjoy the show, Will Ripley. And thank you for bringing us the interview. 
 
Lisa is so talented, so charming. She has a huge year ahead. She's got Coachella. She's got a new album, her acting debut on HBO. 
 
Will, thank you so much. And, if you can, go enjoy the party. We will talk again soon, all right? 
 
Will Ripley joining us live from Bangkok. 
 
RIPLEY:  Thanks, Kristie. 
 
LU STOUT:  Now to the most famous New Year's celebration in the United States, Times Square packed with folks just waiting for that iconic crystal ball to drop and usher in 2025. 
 
We're going to check in on those preparations after this quick break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)