Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Obamas Electrify DNC With Passionate Speeches Filled With Zingers; More Than 200 Content Creators Granted Access to DNC; Lil John Electrifies DNC During Roll Call. Aired 10-10:30a ET

Aired August 21, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR:  Electrifying the party and turning vibes inside the United Center into votes. It is day three of the Democratic National Convention here in Chicago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE):  On behalf of the great state of Delaware, home of our beloved 46th president.
 
GOV. JOSH SHAPIRO (D-PA):  The governor of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The great state of Tennessee, birthplace of rock and roll.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm here because I'm jazzed as hell.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  From the great state of Nancy Pelosi.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It is our honor to unanimously cast our 34 votes.
 
SHAPIRO:  178 votes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  72 votes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  94 votes.
 
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D-CA):  California, we proudly cast our 482 votes for the next president, Kamala Harris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  It was a party, the ceremonial roll call was anything but traditional, complete with a D.J. and a cameo by Lil Jon. And then back to back fiery speeches from President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama took the stage and in true Obama fashion. They filled the convention hall with passion, optimism, and, yes, a few zingers aimed at former President Donald Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHELLE OBAMA, FORMER U.S. FIRST LADY:  She understands that most of us will never be afforded the grace of failing forward. We will never benefit from the affirmative action of generational wealth.
 
If things don't go our way, we don't have the luxury of whining or cheating others to get further ahead.
 
I want to know, who's going to tell him that the job he's currently seeking might just be one of those black jobs?
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  There's the childish nicknames, the crazy conspiracy theories, this weird obsession with crowd sizing.
 
We do not need four more years of bluster and bumbling and chaos we have seen that movie before and we all know that the sequel is usually worse.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  And welcome to a special edition of the CNN Newsroom. I have an empty convention hall behind me, but I'm not taking it personally. I am Jim Acosta live at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago.
 
The goal for the party today, keep this convention cooking for Vice President Kamala Harris. Here is a look at who is taking the stage tonight, former President Bill Clinton, former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, and Harris' running mate, Vice Presidential Nominee Tim Walz, the governor of Minnesota.
 
Coming up here on the program, Minnesota Congressman Dean Phillips, you'll remember, he tried to take on President Biden in the primaries. And political influencer and reproductive rights activist Deja Foxx will be here as well. She's one of the content creators here at the convention. And later on, Congressman Seth Moulton and Congressman Joaquin Castro, they will also join me here on set.
 
But my first guest this hour is Minnesota Democratic Congressman Dean Phillips. He was the lone Democrat to challenge President Biden for the nomination. It was a lonely quest, but you were sort of a Democrat Nostradamus back then. You did see that there might have been a need to change things at the top of the ticket and that is what has indeed happened.
 
But I do want to ask you about -- you're from Minnesota, you know Governor Walz well. This is his big night. This is sort of -- I've been maybe describing this as Bass Pro Shop night at the Democratic convention. He does wear flannel. You can confirm that.
 
REP. DEAN PHILLIPS (D-MN):  Even he wears flannel when nobody's looking, if you can imagine that.
 
ACOSTA:  But he's a relative unknown across the country. Is he going to rise to the occasion?
 
PHILLIPS:  I think he already is. And I think America's getting introduced to just a genuinely good guy. And in politics, there's not a lot of normals, and his superpower is his normalness and I'm thrilled and I think he might be now the third Minnesota Democratic vice president of the last six Democratic vice presidents. So, like Amy Klobuchar always says, in Minnesota, when you have a baby, you sit him on the lap and say, one day you too could become vice president of the United States of America.
 <br>[10:05:06]
 
ACOSTA:  That's it, yes. So, you're satisfied the Democratic ticket now?
 
PHILLIPS:  Thrilled. In fact, well, Jim, you can imagine, I had some trepidation even coming to this event. I wasn't planning on it, and it has blown --
 
ACOSTA:  You weren't super popular a few months ago.
 
PHILLIP:  No, but they've kind of welcomed me back at the popular kids table, which is a night, is a blessing, but also a statement of how the party operates. You know, it was difficult, it was not well- treated, but at the end of the day, what I've experienced here is one of the most extraordinary feelings I've ever had in my life, and greeted with handshakes and high fives and hugs.
 
ACOSTA:  I do want to ask you about a little bit of the news of the day. Former President Donald Trump is doing a complete turnaround, or at least it sounds that way, when it comes to Barack and Michelle Obama. I want to play a little bit of sound. He talked to CNN about this. We'll talk about it on the other side.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  I like him. I think he's a nice gentleman, but he was very weak on trade. But I happen to like him. I respect him and I respect his wife.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. Congressman, this is the same Donald Trump who claimed that President Obama wasn't born in this country. He likes to go to his rallies and talk about Barack Hussein Obama. I mean, that is the former president's name, but he says it derisively. I mean, we could go on and on. Do you buy this?
 
PHILLIP:  Do I buy this? I don't buy anything from the man. And I think he must have just seen some of the new polls come out. And it's almost pathetic and somewhat sad. And the less we talk about that man, I think the better, but Jim he played, he created a campaign that was going to be about age and he got it. The problem is he's on the other side of the table now, and what has transpired is one of the most remarkable moments in American political history, which is something I knew a year-and-a-half ago. If we could just make that change, what would result? And many of us expected to be at a funeral this week, and it's turned out to be a birth. ACOSTA:  I do want to ask you one more question about Governor Walz. He will speak to this arena tonight as he formally accepts the Democratic nomination for vice president. I mean, Republicans have been trying to go after his military record. They have been going after his handling of the riots in Minneapolis. Your assessment of how Governor Walz should respond to all of that. Should he respond to that tonight?
 
PHILLIPS:  Well, first of all, as a gold star son, I lost my dad in the Vietnam War. You can imagine how I feel about a man who avoided the Vietnam War by saying he had flat feet, criticizing a man who served 24 years at his own election in the United States military.
 
You know, Tim Walz is an honorable man. He served with grace and distinction. And to try to shame him is one of the most pathetic statements of a politician I've ever heard in my entire life. And he did not leave the National Guard because he was worried of a deployment. He left to run for office. And I know the man. And he can fix a lawnmower, he can plow his driveway. He's been a National Guardsman, a teacher, a football coach, a governor, and a congressman. He's a genuinely good man, and I'm thrilled, and I think it's shameful how they're treating him.
 
ACOSTA:  And how progressive was Governor Walz as governor of Minnesota? I mean, Republicans have been trying to paint him as a very progressive, out of step governor. What do you think? What's your response to that?
 
PHILLIPS:  I think Tim Walz might be the most important messenger of the Democratic Party coming up, because what we do in Minnesota is different. Yes, we do pay higher taxes. We also have clean air and clean water, beautiful parks, good schools, you know, thriving communities, and a welcoming state with a number of Fortune 500 companies. And, yes, it's a little cold in the winter, but, in a way, I'm kind of pleased that Tim Walz now gets to introduce Minnesota policies to the country.
 
And yes, did he move left as governor than he was as a congressman? He did. He's pragmatic. But I think many of the policies he's implemented, Jim, are going to be ones that Democrats are going to celebrate and may well move the needle in this election.
 
ACOSTA:  And how critical are rural voters in this election? I mean, that seems to be where they want to deploy Governor Walz. I mean, it seems to me you can't win Pennsylvania, you can't win North Carolina, Georgia.
 
PHILLIPS:  Wisconsin.
 
ACOSTA:  Wisconsin.
 
PHILLIPS:  Michigan.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes.
 
PHILLIPS:  Even Minnesota was in play until this change. Tim Walz again is a perfect messenger to reintroduce Democrats to most of America that we have turned our backs on I would say for many years and people want to be heard. Donald Trump has given voice to people who are really darn frustrated with Democrats kind of turning their backs on them. Tim Walz, I think, is the perfect door opener, re- introducer and he speaks the same language. You know, he's an aw shucks kind of guy and common sense, pragmatic and decent. And I think it's spectacular.
 
ACOSTA:  All right. Congressman Dean Phillips, glad you got back to the popular kids table at school.
 
PHILLIPS:  Thank you. It feels good.
 
ACOSTA:  All right, very good. Good to see you, sir. Thanks very much for your time. We appreciate it.
 
Coming up, bringing younger voices back to the DNC. Gen Z activist and content creator Deja Foxx joins me next on her moment behind the mic.
 
Plus, Lil Jon brought the A to the DNC. How the roll call vote turned into a dance party with a musical salute to all 50 states. That's coming up.
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEJA FOXX, POLITICAL INFLUENCER:  People my age are making big decisions about our lives. And we deserve a president who has our back.
 
For young people, this is a fight for our future. We have a responsibility to do this. And we have a responsibility to do it right. And that's why we're going to show up for Kamala Harris and Tim Walz.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  All right, that was political influencer and reproductive rights activist Deja Foxx speaking during night one of the Democratic National Convention here in Chicago.
 <br>[10:15:01]
 
She's one of the 200 content creators. The DNC granted special access this year. It's part of the Democrat strategy to reach younger voters who turn to social media for news. Foxx also worked for Kamala Harris first presidential campaign as the influencer and surrogate strategist. She was just 19 years old at the time, one of the youngest campaign staffers in history.
 
And Deja Foxx joins us now. I guess, first of all, wow, you've accomplished a lot already in life, which is making me feel like what was I doing in my teens and 20s. But, anyway, let's talk about during that first night of the DNC. You talked about your childhood. You talked about what matters to you. What's it been like being here at this convention as somebody who worked for Kamala Harris when you were 19 years old and now you're a social media content creator, somebody that the DNC wants to get that message out?
 
FOXX:  It is a dream realized to be here, right? It took a lot of faith and vision to be a first generation college student to withdraw from school and go work for Kamala Harris. We have to remember the 2020 primary was a very different political scene, a very different time on the internet as well. And to be here today, to be able to share some of my story and be just a tiny part of this historic election is a huge honor and something that I never could have really foreseen. But I'm excited to be engaging in this way and be sharing my platform with this campaign.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. And can you talk about what it was like about a month ago when all of a sudden President Biden steps aside, passes the baton to Kamala Harris? And she suddenly becomes a social media sensation. You knew about the coconut tree before the coconut tree became a big meme across this country. What was that like knowing Kamala Harris and, you know, the fact that she instantly overnight became the nominee?
 
FOXX:  Right. This is a historic vibe switch, something that in A.P. U.S. history classes, they'll be studying one day, right?
 
ACOSTA:  Five switch (ph) will be in history books someday, is that --
 
FOXX:  I almost imagined our memes will too.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes.
 
FOXX:  And I, when she announced she was running, shared a tick talk to my account, it got nearly a million views. And in that video, I shared one of our 2020 primary videos. And in this video, she talks about the responsibility she feels to other women of color, to young women, to girls and that she knows that the position she holds is historic and determines what is possible, not just for her, but for others.
 
And in the comment section of that video, one word stood out, and that word was hope. I heard young people saying that they feel hope for the first time ever in a long time. I heard some people saying this felt like their Obama moment. And that to me is energy that I've seen also on the ground in my home state of Arizona, where I live and work now. She just brought 15,000-plus people to an arena in Phoenix. And those people were my mom, my neighbors, people I went to high school with. So, the energy is absolutely there for this candidate.
 
ACOSTA:  And let's talk about that energy as it pertains to the issue of abortion. I mean, this November, several states will have abortion on the ballot, including your home state of Arizona. Here's what the Harris campaign had to say about some of this yesterday. Let's listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT, DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: And I promise you when I am president of the United States and Congress passes a bill to restore the protections of Roe v. Wade, I will proudly sign it into law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  How much has this issue motivated younger voters? I mean, is it something that folks, you know, Gen X, baby boomers, they're just not really paying attention to as closely as Gen Zrs are?
 
FOXX:  Sure. I mean, young women like me who live in states like Arizona, where we faced the threat of bans dating all the way back to 1864, know the stakes of this election and know it intimately.
 
I got my start in this work when I was 15 advocating for better sex ed, pushing against the defund Planned Parenthood movement under Donald Trump. And I know that this is an issue that intimately affects our lives, right? It affects our potential, our possibilities, the lives we get to build for ourselves and our families and our communities.
 
And I think Kamala Harris knows that too, right? And she has a unique position and a unique perspective on this issue, and she's been a champion for it her entire career.
 
ACOSTA:  And you worked for Kamala Harris when you were 19 years old. What is the one thing people should know about Kamala Harris?
 
FOXX:  Kamala Harris embodies what it means to be fearless. She has been the first in nearly every position she has ever held. I see myself in her in so many ways, first generation American raised by a single working mom, someone who is an Asian-American woman like me And I hope other people really situate (ph) themselves in this historic election and remember that this is a fight worth fighting.
 <br>[10:20:03]
 
ACOSTA:  And if people are writing off the youth, I mean, there was a kind of a refrain in politics that, yes, we talked about the youth vote every four years. I wonder whether it's going to be a big factor in an election. Does it feel like it's different this time?
 
FOXX:  It is different this time. Not only are young people going to show their power at the ballot box, but young people are demonstrating the narrative power that we now hold, right? We are setting the narrative even for traditional media with our TikTok videos, with the things that we create online.
 
And in an election like this, where we see a combination of race and gender-based attacks, it is incredibly important for young people to intervene and lead with our values and create a narrative that is reflective of us and the future and priorities that we have.
 
ACOSTA:  All right. Deja Foxx, very popular on the social media, we'll see you there. FOXX:  I'll see you over there.
 
ACOSTA:  But thanks for coming in here.
 
FOXX:  My pleasure. Thanks for having me.
 
ACOSTA:  All right. Still ahead. How do I get this job?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Alabama, how do you cast your vote?
 
Florida, how do you cast your vote?
 
Tennessee, how do you cast your vote?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  That man is DNC Secretary Jason Rae, ended up turning into a co-emcee of the delegate roll call, turned dance party. He is a Wisconsin native and is the youngest person ever elected to the DNC. He was just 17 years old when that happened. Last night was very different than Rae's first roll call vote which was virtual due to the pandemic four years ago.
 
More electric moments from that roll call last night. We'll show you that just a few moments. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
ACOSTA:  Roll calls at conventions are typically really, really boring, but then this happened last night.
 
I've watched that 50 times. It does not get old. That's a Lil Jon bringing down the house as our very own Van Jones, can we show this, I'll put it right, after the roll call, Kamala Harris put the party back in the Democratic party. Here it is. When it was time for the Georgia delegation, take a look at this.
 
Each state and territory took a turn showcasing its own anthem from Lynyrd Skynyrd's Sweet Home Alabama to Tupac's California Love.
 
Lisa Respers France joins me now. Lisa, the ATL influence is just about everything these days. She's still going. I was doing it too. I'm so glad when we showed Lil Jon there a few moments ago that the video was up full and I was not on camera because you just don't need my dad dancing at this hour or any hour for that matter.
 
LISA RESPERS FRANCE, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER:  I want to see your dad dancing Jim. We want to see you do it. Thank you so much. Get it.
 
ACOSTA:  It's just a little move. It's just a little. If I do it too much, I don't want to offend the viewers at home. But what did you think? I mean, you know what? I'm all about Atlanta. I'm all about it. What did you think? I mean, this was really an amazing moment because, I mean, it is true, these things can be so drab and dull and boring and this was just anything but that.
 
FRANCE:  Let me tell you, Atlanta is never drab or boring. This is a city where our best chicken wings come from a strip club, thank you very much. And pro tip, you can get them delivered via DoorDash and Uber Eats.
 
So, look, I mean, what we saw last night was Georgia. It was Atlanta showing up and showing out. It was just all about the energy. The music throughout the night with this roll call was all about the diversity. It basically, you had something for everybody. You had a little journey. You had a little Dolly Parton from Tennessee. Thank You, Minnesota, you know, home of Governor Walz. I mean, you have Prince come from them.
 
So, I feel like this is just an opportunity for people to have fun. Look, you know, politics can be so serious. As you pointed out, they can be boring. And this was an opportunity for people to have fun. Those two things don't have to be mutually exclusive. They are there to celebrate what feels like a Democratic family reunion. And you cannot have a family reunion, sir, without having music.
 
ACOSTA:  That's it. And it's on Spotify now too. I mean, they put the playlist on Spotify. I mean, the kids out there are just having a good time this week.
 
And, you know, Lisa, Georgia Congresswoman Nikema Williams, she had a moment as she announced the Peach State's votes.
 <br>[10:30:04]
 
Let's watch that.