Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Netanyahu To Meet With Biden Next Hour At The White House; J.D. Vance Under Fire For "Childless Cat Ladies" Comment; Athletes Arrive In Paris Ahead Of Olympic Opening Ceremony; Officer Suspended After Videos Of Airport Beating Surface; Netanyahu Lashes Out At Critics In Speech To U.S. Congress; Olympic Games Offer Kenya A Chance To Leverage Exposure. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired July 25, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:53]
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: All right. Coming to you live from New York, I'm Zain Asher. You are watching ONE WORLD.
 
It is a high stakes meeting that comes at a precarious moment in already very fragile relationship. In the next hour or so, Israeli Prime Minister 
 
 Benjamin Netanyahu is set to visit the White House. He's going to be speaking with U.S. President Joe Biden.
 
It comes one day after the Prime Minister's really combative speech to Congress, where he lashed out at critics of Israel's war on Gaza, but did 
 
 not address the status of ceasefire negotiations.
 
Later on this afternoon, Netanyahu is also going to be meeting separately with Vice President Kamala Harris, who did not attend his speech on 
 
 Wednesday.
 
Aide say that the presumptive Democratic nominee will emphasize her independence from President Biden on Israeli policy without necessarily 
 
 breaking with him.
 
I want to bring in CNN's Jeremy Diamond, who joins us live now from Jerusalem. It's interesting, Jeremy, because while President Biden is 
 
 certainly pro-Israel, his relationship with Prime Minister Netanyahu, is fraught and it has been complicated at times.
 
What do we know, for sure, about Kamala Harris' view on the war and how will that shape this meeting today?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, listen, there's no question that, first of all, Vice President Harris, by being in this 
 
 administration, certainly owns her share of responsibility for this administration's policies.
 
And even without that, we'll certainly be tied to those administration's policies as she now runs for president.
 
That being said, there have been a few instances in which we have seen Vice President Harris be a little bit more forward-leaning as it relates to a 
 
 few things with the war in Gaza.
 
First of all, as it relates to kind of showcasing empathy for the suffering of Palestinian civilians in Gaza, talking about how unacceptable that is. 
 
 And she was also a little bit more forward-leaning in calling for a ceasefire back in March.
 
At a time when President Biden and the White House weren't quite leaning as much into that as she was at the time.
 
But a lot remains to be seen in terms of, first of all, how she would actually handle this conflict if indeed she were president.
 
And more importantly, perhaps in this moment, at least, how she is going to talk about this issue publicly, how she's going to present her meeting with 
 
 the Israeli Prime Minister slated to happen later today, to the public, as she now carries the democratic mantle into the November elections, as she 
 
 runs against Donald Trump.
 
But there's no question that Netanyahu's meetings today with President Biden, as well as with Vice President Harris, and tomorrow with former 
 
 President Trump will all be critical to kind of determining where the Israeli Prime Minister is going to be next week, as his negotiating team is 
 
 set to travel to meet with the mediators to deliver the latest Israeli response.
 
And perhaps even to influence the contents of that response. As of now, I'm told that the Israeli negotiating delegation is going to submit an Israeli 
 
 response that will indeed include some of the Israeli Prime Minister's 11th-hour demands regarding, for example, stopping armed men from returning 
 
 to Northern Gaza during a ceasefire and also maintaining an Israeli troop presence along that Philadelphi Corridor, along the Egypt-Gaza border.
 
Those are issues that could potentially be non-starters for Hamas. And so we'll see whether President Biden today will try and move the Israeli Prime 
 
 Minister from those positions.
 
We've been told that President Biden will be as forceful as ever in urging the Israeli Prime Minister to seize this moment, to get to a deal. There's 
 
 no doubt that Vice President Harris will also be a part of that conversation.
 
And interestingly, we've also heard today, from former President Trump, talking about the need to end the war in Gaza soon for Israel to wrap it up 
 
 effectively, as he said. He wasn't necessarily talking about it in the context of a ceasefire deal, but he was making clear that Israel, that the 
 
 clock seems to be running out, and that this all needs to come to a swift conclusion soon, that the hostages need to come home.
 <br>[12:05:02]
 
And so that will perhaps add another layer of pressure or certainly something else for the Israeli Prime Minister to think about as he thinks 
 
 not only about this moment now and how President Biden will seek to influence him but also how the next two potential presidents of the United 
 
 States, either Harris or Trump will handle situations when they come into office. One of them comes into office in January.
 
ASHER: Yes. Good point there. Jeremy Diamond live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. And before she meets with the Israeli Prime Minister in Washington, Kamala Harris is hitting the campaign trail. Vice President 
 
 delivered the keynote speech before the American Federation of Teachers in just the past hour that was in Houston.
 
And she's wasting no time in getting out her message to the rest of the country as well. Harris released her first presidential campaign video with 
 
 a little help from Beyonce. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The freedom not just to get by but get ahead. The freedom to be saved from gun violence. The 
 
 freedom to make decisions about your own body. We choose a future where no child lives in poverty where we can all afford health care. Where no one is 
 
 above the law.
 
We believe in the promise of America and we're ready to fight for it. Because when we fight, we win.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Donald Trump is getting his message out as well, but as for that so- called shift in tone, we heard from his campaign following the attempt on his life. Well, that shift in tone certainly did not last long.
 
Here's what Trump had to say earlier about his new rival.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think it's disgusting. And I get a kick out of one thing they say, sir, you just got 
 
 hit with a bullet. Maybe he's changed. Be nice and I'd love to be nice, but I'm dealing against real garbage, when you hear that.
 
They've weaponized the justice system against me. They've indicted me four times. They've pushed other lawsuits on to me. It's never happened in this 
 
 country. This is like a third-world country what they've done, a banana republic.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: U.S. President Joe Biden, meantime, says America is at an inflection point. On Wednesday night, he spoke to the nation for the first time since 
 
 his decision to bow out of the race and he made it clear that his support is behind the vice president.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: America's an idea. An idea stronger than any army, bigger than any ocean. More powerful than any 
 
 dictator or tyrant. It's the most powerful idea in the history of the world.
 
Just a few months, the American people choose the course of America's future. I made my choice.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: CNN's Jeff Zeleny joins us live now in Washington.
 
So, Jeff, Donald Trump making it clear that there's no more Mr. Nice Guy at this point in time. But just walk us through how Kamala Harris is going to 
 
 fair when the Trump machine really unleashes its full arsenal of attacks on her because the worst is yet to come.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF UNITED STATES NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Zain, perhaps I've missed it but I'm not sure there was a Mr. Nice Guy ever in 
 
 the Trump campaign.
 
Look, that was something that maybe 15 minutes in his speech last week in Milwaukee at the Republican convention.
 
But look, I mean the contrast could not be sharper, could not be starker.
 
And it is clear that the Trump campaign and Republicans really writ large, are still grappling with -- and scrambling with how to sort of run against 
 
 a Vice President Harris.
 
She, of course, has been on the national stage for quite some time but never in this position. So he has called her several nicknames, but they 
 
 really are walking this line.
 
And the question is by firing all of these, you know, attacks at her and calling her names and things, is that actually going to unify Democrats 
 
 even more.
 
I mean, just a couple days ago, the Democratic Party was, you know, really divided over what to do. And Donald Trump has played a very large part in 
 
 unifying the Democratic Party because they are intent on trying to win.
 
So just seeing Vice President Harris there in Houston, just a short time ago, saying bring it on, that is a stark contrast that American voters will 
 
 certainly consider over the next three and a half months.
 
ASHER: And, Jeff, just talked to us about this first campaign video that we're seeing from the Harris team, because I thought it was interesting 
 
 that the way in which she sort of went after Donald Trump was very subtle and very restrained. She kept it much more focused on why voters should 
 
 pick her as opposed to why they shouldn't pick Donald Trump.
 
Just explain the strategy behind that.
 
ZELENY: Look, as you can see the video here, I mean, it's uplifting, it's optimistic in some respects. And I think a lot of people a lot of 
 
 democratic voters and independents are looking for something like that.
 
It's Beyonce, so that clearly underscores the message.
 
And really, Zain, when you look at it, the message, the words haven't changed that much from President Biden's message.
 <br>[12:10:06]
 
In fact, he talked about freedom when he first announced his reelection just a year or so ago. But it cuts so differently when she is the one 
 
 saying it, when Beyonce is the one singing it. You can see the energy, the enthusiasm, but talking about freedom for abortion rights, pushing more gun 
 
 safety rights on and on and on.
 
So, I think that that is an intentional effort to try and make people feel good about their candidate. And there'll be plenty of videos and ads, I'm 
 
 sure, in the weeks to come, sort of going after Donald Trump aggressively.
 
But this is about her and her movement she's trying to build that Harris coalition, if you will. Of course, it's sort of aimed at younger voters, 
 
 aimed at Beyonce's listeners, which aren't all young, of course. They come from all ages.
 
But it is a bit more of an uplifting message and mood to what has often been a fairly bleak and art campaign.
 
ASHER: Jeff Zeleny live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Donald Trump's running mate, J.D. Vance, is being called out for some very controversial comments he made about women and parenting three 
 
 years ago.
 
In 2021, when he was running for the Senate, Vance said that one of the problems with America was that there were too many people in power who did 
 
 not have children. He referred to them as childless cats ladies.
 
I want you to listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH): We're effectively run in this country via the Democrats, via our corporate oligarchs by a bunch of childless cat ladies 
 
 who are miserable at their own lives and the choices that they've made.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Among the childless politicians that Vance cited was Vice President Kamala Harris.
 
Hollywood actress, Jennifer Aniston, posted on her social media saying she could not believe that a potential vice president of the United States 
 
 would say something like that.
 
In a 2022 magazine interview, Aniston spoke about her struggles, her own personal struggles, with trying to get pregnant.
 
For more on this controversy, let's bring in Tia Mitchell to ONE WORLD. She's the Washington correspondent for "The Atlanta-Journal and 
 
 Constitution."
 
Tia, thank you so much for being with us.
 
I mean, this comment by J.D. Vance obviously made three years ago, but it is triggering for a lot of people, for a lot of women, women who have 
 
 children, women who don't have children. I mean, it's really painful to hear someone in his position say something like that.
 
How do you think these comments will come back to haunt him?
 
TIA MITCHELL, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT, ATLANTA JOURNAL CONSTITUTION: I think they're going to haunt him because there are a lot of single 
 
 childless adult women in America who've made choices for different reasons. And, A, so he's really alienating these comments which have been resurfaced 
 
 could alienate a big segment of the population that quite frankly comprised a lot of swing voters in a lot of states.
 
But the other thing is it just comes across so out of touch. You know, there are a lot of again, single adult women, they're not miserable. 
 
 They're thriving in their careers and their personal lives. And some of them are single by choice.
 
So it's like all the, you know, rich aunties that are in America right now are looking at J.D. Vance and saying, what is this guy you've been talking 
 
 about?
 
ASHER: On top of that, I mean, a vulnerable voting block for the Republicans right now is, of course, women. And when you think about Roe v. 
 
 Wade, and, you know, the fact that Donald Trump stacked the Supreme Court with three very conservative justices who overturned Roe v. Wade, you know, 
 
 that is a major vulnerability for that party going into November.
 
I mean, obviously, when you now add that to these comments by J.D. Vance, I mean, it is problematic for the party.
 
MITCHELL: Yes. It's, again, these are voters, particularly when you talk about women in suburban America. Again, women in metro centers in some of 
 
 these swing states like Georgia, Arizona, Michigan, Pennsylvania. These are women that if they're not single themselves, they have single friends.
 
Quite frankly, these might be married women who say, hey, sometimes the married life can be stressful. And I wish I was living that single 
 
 childless life.
 
So again, it just seems -- it just at this moment in time, especially when so much of the conversation is about women's freedom to choose for 
 
 themselves, if they want to have children and how they want to have children, it just comes across is really tone deaf.
 
ASHER: You know, I do think it's interesting that during the Republican National Convention, the fact that Donald Trump's, one of his sort of most 
 
 sort of signature achievements during his presidency was stacking the Supreme Court where three major conservative, three very conservative 
 
 justices and the overturning of Roe v. Wade.
 
And then you had the fact that that was barely mentioned during the convention that really indicates to you that, you know, that that is a 
 
 known vulnerability for the Republicans at this point in time.
 <br>[12:15:59]
 
Obviously, this is about politics. So, how do the Democrats capitalize? What is the strategy, the right strategy for Democrats to capitalize on the 
 
 fact that Republicans are continually alienating women voters in this country?
 
MITCHELL: Yes. I think you're going to see Democrats continue to push this thing of freedom. We saw it in Vice President Harris' first campaign ad. It 
 
 goes beyond just reproductive rights.
 
And again, the focus is going to be on freedom. The freedom to choose the type of family you want. The freedom to choose for your children, state 
 
 communities, and opportunities for yourself.
 
So Democrats are going to try to frame it as having a very inclusive view of America that embraces different types of families, different types of 
 
 lifestyles, different types of people. And they'll be trying to paint Republicans as having this very narrow view of, again, of families, the 
 
 family planning and what makes a quote-unquote traditional American family.
 
ASHER: We think that there is going to be a debate between Kamala Harris and Donald Trump on September 17th, as I understand it.
 
What is the right way for Kamala Harris? And obviously, she does have an advantage in this arena, just by the fact that she is a woman at the top of 
 
 a major party ticket.
 
But what is the right way for her, during that debate, to really draw that contrast between both parties?
 
MITCHELL: I mean, I think she's going to talk about her own story, having a blended family and stepchildren. I think she's going to frame it as, again, 
 
 not trying to decide for people what type of family they want, but create an America that creates opportunity and freedom for all types of families 
 
 to thrive.
 
I would see her having those types of answers. But I also think she's going to be well versed and is going to be doing what we're seeing already, which 
 
 is using Donald Trump and J.D. Vance's words against them.
 
We know that they, in catering to a far right MAGA demographic, have said things that some voters in a -- in a general electorate might find 
 
 objectionable.
 
And again, might find that would be limiting of -- or judgmental of certain types of people in certain types of family. So I would expect her to remind 
 
 American voters of those statements and comments in the debate.
 
ASHER: All right. Tia Mitchell live for us there. Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
All right. Are you ready? We are about 25 hours away from the opening ceremony for the Summer Olympic Games in Paris. It kicks off Friday night, 
 
 local time with a spectacular show that includes 94 boats carrying athletes down the river Seine.
 
City officials had to get the river cleaned before it would be safe to swim in. But the main focus will, of course, be on the competition and who will 
 
 bring home the gold.
 
Melissa Bell joins us live from Paris now, as we talk about those final details.
 
So, Melissa, I understand that you sat down with the mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo. Obviously, it's been about eight years since Paris officials vowed 
 
 to clean up the Seine. Once and for all, we know that Ms. Hidalgo swam in the Seine to prove that they had declared victory over E. coli. 
 
Just talk us through whether or not there are still some concerns about how safe the river is to swim in going into tomorrow.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I think, then, the fact of her swim in it dispelled any fears there might be she came out 
 
 unscathed.
 
There is still a question, though, about whether those swimming events will be able to take place in the Seine River, because a lot depends on the 
 
 weather. If it rains a lot, the E. coli levels rise. And that could mean that some of those sporting events, for instance, the triathlon swimming 
 
 event, the marathon swimming event, might be delayed and possibly not be held at all. Still, Paris officials convinced that they will take place.
 
The other extremely ambitious target that they said for these games, as you mentioned, is that opening ceremony for tomorrow night. It will happen 
 
 along the river Seine. And, of course, what that allows French officials to do is to showcase their extraordinary city.
 
This is Notre Dame, Zain, still under reconstruction since the fire over a few years ago.
 
But what Paris officials have told us over and over again is that they set these ambitions that many said, including Parisians, simply couldn't be 
 
 achieved, because Paris was worthy of something that ambitious and spectacular.
 
This is what the mayor of Paris had to say about her conviction that she's now done enough to get the Seine swimmable in time for the games.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNE HIDALGO, MAYOR OF PARIS: I love the water. I love the sea. I love the rivers. But it's more than that. It's cleaning the Seine. Cleaning the 
 
 Seine is cleaning our life. Cleaning the Seine is for the -- our generation and next generation, live with the natural.
 <br>[12:20:13]
 
BELL: One of the big questions that remains about this opening ceremony that will happen on the Seine is whether who will take part? We know that 
 
 there's to be dancers on the roof, that promise is to be quite spectacular.
 
The only issue is whether it will rain or not. We understand it could just rain around the beginning of the ceremony, but the question of who's taking 
 
 part?
 
There's been so much speculation, Zain, about Lady Gaga and Celine Dion both spotted around Paris.
 
For now, Paris officials have been very tight-lipped, but we did hear a short while ago from the French sports minister who told our colleague, 
 
 Christiane Amanpour, that it was no accident, no coincidence that Celine Dion was in town. So a small hint there of what's to come, Zain.
 
ASHER: We hope that the rumors about a duet between Celine and Lady Gaga are true. We can't wait to watch it if so.
 
Melissa Bell live for us there. Thank you so much. We'll be right back after the short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CHANTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right. Dozens of protesters gathered at the police station in Rochdale, England, Wednesday night, demanding changes after a violent 
 
 confrontation at Manchester Airport.
 
One of the officers involved has been removed from frontline duties. We must warn you that the video is disturbing to watch.
 
Take a look here. You can actually see officers beating at least three people. And one officer kicking and stomping on the head of one man when he 
 
 was already on the ground.
 
Greater Manchester police say they were attacked after responding to a reported assault. We can't independently verify what happened before or 
 
 after this video was taken.
 
CNN's Claire Sebastian joins us live now from London with the story.
 
I mean, based on what -- obviously I just mentioned, we don't have the whole picture. But based on what we see in this video, it is shocking. It 
 
 is really appalling, especially when you consider the fact that it is important for police to win over the trust of the communities that they 
 
 police.
 
And this video has caused a lot of distress for people in and around Manchester who have watched this video.
 
Just walk us through what do we know for sure about what happened and what are police saying.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So we have those videos, Zain, which as you say, have gone viral. They spread really rapidly on Wednesday. 
 
 And, of course, we now see the spill-over into the real world with that protest outside Rochdale police station and more protests expected in 
 
 Manchester this evening.
 <br>[12:25:05]
 
Look, the footage shows that the police, in one instance, stamping on the head of a man, kicking him. He was already on the ground and another 
 
 incident.
 
We see a man being sprayed with pepper spray after being confronted by a police. We don't know exactly what happened before or after this, but 
 
 Greater Manchester police have filled in some details from their perspective.
 
They said that armed police officers at Manchester Airport responded to an altercation between members of the public.
 
During that response, they say three officers were injured. One female officer had her nose broken. They were armed police officers. So Greater 
 
 Manchester police says there was a concern that there was a risk their firearms could be taken as a result of the sort of tensions that they 
 
 encountered.
 
So, obviously, they were concerned that this could escalate even further. Now, they are not using those details to justify this, I should say. They 
 
 have also called this truly shocking. They say it's very unusual. They have suspended one officer fully from all duties and they have voluntarily 
 
 referred this to the independent police watchdog here in the U.K.
 
But, obviously, there is a concern that the tensions around this and the protests could escalate. So we see officials like the mayor of Greater 
 
 Manchester, Andy Burnham, calling for calm. And that is the sentiment echoed even by the British prime minister. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: Well, I haven't seen the footage. And for that reason, I do understand the public concern.
 
Obviously, action has now been taken in relation to the suspension of an officer. And the Home
 
 Secretary is already having those discussions with the mayor of Manchester.
 
I think they've already happened or they've -- they're taking place as we speak. And she has made sure she's kept updated on developments ever since 
 
 the incident.
 
And so, obviously, there's a process now that will go into place. But I completely understand the public concern having seen the footage myself.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So the investigation is now underway by the independent police watchdog. They say they are looking into the level of force used by one 
 
 officer.
 
We also got a few more details in the last several hours from a lawyer representing, as we understand it, two of the men injured in the police 
 
 response, he said that the condition of one of the men worsened overnight.
 
He apparently had a CT scan which shows a cyst on the brain. He also did say that several of the men involved are related to a serving Greater 
 
 Manchester police officer who is now apparently afraid to go to work.
 
So more details still unfolding about those involved in this incident. Zain.
 
ASHER: And, Clare, I have to say that as a Brit living in America, I'm definitely more used to seeing these sorts of videos on this side of the 
 
 pond.
 
But just talk to us a bit more about how common these sorts of scenes of police brutality are in the U.K. And whether or not racism played a factor 
 
 here too.
 
SEBASTIAN: Yes. Not very common and this is something that Greater Manchester police have pointed out.
 
Our police officers are not as a rule armed only in certain instances. So obviously that concern wouldn't usually be there that their firearms could 
 
 be taken.
 
I think there have been issues with trust in policing in recent years with the Metropolitan Police with Greater Manchester Police as well.
 
And racism is something that is being raised in this incident. It looks from the video like there were white police officers and that the men who 
 
 they were encountering were Asian.
 
We know that several leading Muslim faith groups have come out and expressed concern about this, the Muslim Council of Britain among them, 
 
 which is the leading umbrella group for Muslims in the U.K., for Muslim organizations.
 
I should say, Rochdale, which we understand is where at least one of the men involved is from according to the local MP there is about 18 percent 
 
 Muslim, so a very large Muslim population there.
 
As to whether racism played a part, we don't know, but that question is being raised. And among the groups that are going out to protest this 
 
 evening or promising to protest this evening is stand up to racism and anti-racism groups.
 
So I think this is why you see so many officials coming out saying that they understand Greater Manchester police are going to continue their 
 
 outreach to the communities urging calm in the case of the mayor of Greater Manchester is because they don't want these tensions to spill over any 
 
 further.
 
ASHER: All right. Carle Sebastian live for us there. Thank you so much. Appreciate that.
 
All right. The U.S. and Canada scrambled jet fighters in response to a joint patrol of Russian and Chinese bombers near Alaska. These are the 
 
 images of the patrol provided by the North American Aerospace Defense Command.
 
An American defense official said the incident was the first time Russian and Chinese bombers have been intercepted while operating together.
 
NORAD says the bombers remained in international airspace and were not seen as a threat.
 
All right. Still to come, a key meeting at the White House between the U.S. president and the Israeli Prime Minister at a fragile moment in the 
 
 country's long friendship. A preview, ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:46]
 
ASHER: All right. Welcome back to ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher.
 
It's a high stakes meeting at a fragile moment in U.S.-Israel relations.
 
In the next hour, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visits the White House to speak with President Joe Biden. They're going to be 
 
 discussing efforts to secure a ceasefire and hostage release deal as well.
 
Mr. Netanyahu will then meet Vice President and presumptive Democratic nominee, Kamala Harris later.
 
Time now for The Exchange. We want to take a closer look at Netanyahu's speech and his upcoming meetings with the U.S. President and the Vice 
 
 President.
 
Joining me live now is Amir Tibon, diplomatic correspondent for the Israeli newspaper Haaretz. Amir, thank you so much for being with us.
 
Obviously, you watched the speech yesterday by Netanyahu. Just give us your take on the speech. I'm wondering as some people have said that, you know, 
 
 did he miss an opportunity here, an opportunity rather than just sort of defending Israel's actions in Gaza, an opportunity to show real empathy and 
 
 to show concern for some of the concerns that other people have brought up that the war has gone on for too long, that there needs to be an end to 
 
 this war.
 
Just give us your take on whether or not Netanyahu missed an opportunity here.
 
AMIR TIBON, DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT, HAARETZ: I think, Zain, for of all, it's been to see you.
 
And the prism of the question, in my opinion, is wrong because this speech was not about Israel. It was not about the war. It was not about Israel's 
 
 image in the world. It's what other nations perceive us. It was about internal Israeli politics.
 <br>[12:35:13]
 
It was given in English, but the audience was completely domestic. And we saw that almost half of the democratic party members were not even in the 
 
 chamber to hear him. And these are the people we need to convince as an Israeli, as a Zionist.
 
I know that we do have a problem with a lot of people out there who don't appreciate the difficulties our country is facing, who don't understand the 
 
 hardships that our military is to deal with in Gaza. These are real problems.
 
But what Netanyahu did have nothing to do with solving them. It was all about boosting his own political standing at home. And in that sense, he 
 
 did not miss any opportunity.
 
ASHER: That is interesting. Yes. I mean, I've heard a lot of people talk about the fact that this was meant for a domestic audience back home in 
 
 Israel, even though it wasn't given in Hebrew, even though it was given in English. It was still meant for an audience back home.
 
When you think about -- 
 
TIBON: The whole idea is to tell his supporters how he speaks perfect English on the international stage.
 
ASHER: Right.
 
TIBON: But then you ask yourself, who was the audience? Who actually heard him? Who actually listened?
 
And when you start to answer those questions you realize that this was not really the motive here.
 
ASHER: Right. So when you think about though just given that, you know, Netanyahu is here in the U.S. right now, and obviously he's got these 
 
 meetings with Biden, with Harris, with Trump tomorrow.
 
When you think about where he is right now just in terms of trying to gain international support. I mean, obviously, yesterday there were a lot of 
 
 Democrats who weren't in the room. It was a largely GOP audience. There were protests happening outside, really intense protests actually.
 
Then you've got the fact that the family members of the hostages are angry at him because of the lack of movement and the lack of progress in terms of 
 
 a ceasefire. A lot of people are saying that he is just sort of trying to run out the clock in order to save his own political career.
 
Just give us your sense of where Netanyahu goes from here in terms of how he manages to maneuver this political quagmire he's in.
 
TIBON: So for Netanyahu, this entire trip is about one word, legitimacy. He came to the U.S. this week after nine and a half months in which poll after 
 
 poll, a poll in Israel show a huge majority of the public does not want him to continue as prime minister because of the massive failure that we saw on 
 
 October 7 and so the war has been conducted ever since.
 
Most Israelis are unhappy with his leadership. We can use that word. Most Israelis want new elections. Most Israelis don't want him to continue 
 
 another term. And he's doing that, first of all, who've been international legitimacy and make it shine on him back home. And that's why these 
 
 meetings with Biden, with Trump, with Harris, are critical for him. That's his number one goal.
 
Whether he gets anything out of it that will help other Israelis, for example, the hostages in Gaza including those my friends and neighbors, 
 
 Tsachi Idan and Omri Miran Iran, who has been in the hands of Hamas for almost 300 days now, that's questionable.
 
We can hope. We can really press any kind of optimism that is still left in the tank for us. We will see them coming back soon.
 
But I don't think, fortunately that what is it on the top of his mind right now. He's trying to show Israelis back home, I'm still relevant, despite 
 
 October 7, despite the failures, despite the fact that under my watch the largest massacre of Jewish people since the Holocaust, took place. Look, I 
 
 am still received in the White House and at Mar-a-Lago. These are what he's trying to achieve here.
 
ASHER: Yes. I mean, obviously. a lot of people are questioning his leadership, given the failures of October 7, given the fact that this war 
 
 has, in many people's opinions, gone on for too long, given that there are so many hostages who still haven't come home.
 
A lot of people are questioning his leadership ability at this particular time. But there is no doubt that Netanyahu is a very, very good politician.
 
And when he's navigating -- 
 
TIBON: Yes.
 
ASHER: -- his meetings in Washington, you think about the fact that he's got to meet with President Biden who is, of course, a lame duck president 
 
 at this point in time.
 
Then he's got Kamala Harris who is in lockstep with the administration, but at the same time she's shown a lot of empathy towards the Palestinians.
 
And then he's got the meeting tomorrow with Donald Trump. And there has been a little bit of resentment between Donald Trump and Netanyahu 
 
 primarily because Netanyahu called President Biden in 2020 to congratulate him when obviously Donald Trump believes that he won the election.
 
So just talk us through how Netanyahu seamlessly manages these three meetings. And how he changes his message, depending on who he's going to be 
 
 talking to over the next couple of days. 
 
TIBON: Well, with Biden, it's somewhat of a farewell message, but still we have to remember -- is the president for the next six months. And these six 
 
 months are going to be critical for Israel because we have the hostages in Gaza and we want to get them out of there alive.
 <br>[12:40:09]
 
When Netanyahu speaks about bringing back our hostages, there is one word that often is missing. And that's the word alive. It's very easy to bring 
 
 120 people in caskets.
 
But what we really want to do is anybody there who is still alive from our friends and neighbors and brothers and sisters, we want them alive. And it 
 
 means we need fast action. And we still have to deal with Hezbollah, in the (INAUDIBLE) which is a major strategic threat to Israel.
 
Iran has not given up on its plan for nuclear capabilities. And Houthis in Yemen are attacking us. We saw them bombing Tel Aviv with a drone, just a 
 
 week and change ago.
 
And so we still need President Biden. And it's very important to continue receiving his support. 
 
And then between Trump and Harris, you have two people. And one of them is going to be the next president of the United States. And we really need to 
 
 have a good strong relationship with both of them.
 
From the Israeli point of view, Netanyahu seems to be starting from a bad position with Trump who's still angry at him, not just over the election 
 
 issue that you mentioned, Zain, but also in that famous interview to my friend, Barak Ravid (ph) in 2021, Trump said that in retrospect, he 
 
 believes Netanyahu never actually wanted peace with the Palestinians and wasn't constructive with Trump's peace efforts.
 
And with Harris, we see similar criticism over how Netanyahu has conducted the war and how he's been in a -- in a situation. So this is starting at a 
 
 deficit, just like back home in Israel. 
 
ASHER: Fantastic analysis. Always good to have you, Amir Tibon. We appreciate you joining the program.
 
All right. Still to come on ONE WORLD. The action has begun at the Paris Olympic, even though opening ceremonies are not until tomorrow. The latest 
 
 result when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. Kenya is hoping to cash in on its reputation as a successful Olympic nation. Kenyan athletes shine at the games.
 
And now the East African nation is looking to leverage this exposure and promote sports tourism and Kenyan business.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Kenya's Olympic triumphs have elevated Brand Kenya on the global stage, showcasing the nation's talent, resilience and spirit.
 <br>[12:45:09]
 
The country's extraordinary success in distance running has cemented its status as the most successful African nation in Olympic history.
 
With over 100 medals, Kenya's athletes have consistently dominated on the track, bringing glory to the nation.
 
Every four years, the world watches as these runners perform incredible feats, offering a platform and exposure that money can't buy.
 
PAUL TERGAT, PRESIDENT, KENYAN OLYMPIC COMMITTEE: What a marketing opportunity that we have given to our nation. It is so massive.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Paul Tergat is the president of the Kenyan Olympic Committee. He also happens to have been one of the greatest distance 
 
 runners of all time.
 
TERGAT: For us as a nation, for us as a national Olympic committee, for us as athletes from Kenya, every time we are competing, we are alive to the 
 
 fact that millions, if not billions of people around the world are watching.
 
ANDREA GEURIN, PROFESSOR OF SPORTS BUSINESS, LOUGHBOROUGH UNIVERSITY: Sport is something that brings nations together. It brings people together.
 
So, for example, in the Olympic Games, if you're watching an athlete from your country compete and they win, that's a moment where the country, the 
 
 entire nation, feels the sense of pride, no matter what your political affiliation is, no matter what your religion, no matter, you know, what 
 
 differences you may have with other people.
 
Sport is something that unifies us. And so I think nations really do capitalize on that because they know that it's going to bring people there.
 
ELIUD KIPCHOGE, EIGHT-TIME OLYMPIC CHAMPION: It's the soft part for us to tell people actually what's inside Kenya.
 
The Olympics is still the soft spot to meet the world leaders in sport and in politics in development, sell our country. Tell them come and develop 
 
 infrastructure in our country. And that's the only way.
 
GEURIN: In terms of nation branding, soft power is seen as having persuasive messaging rather than coercive messaging.
 
And so it's kind of persuading people to get on board with your brand or, you know, get on board with your nation.
 
JUNE CHEPKEMEI, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, KENYA TOURISM BOARD: Kenya is home of great talent. We are home of unlimited opportunities.
 
Sport tourism is big for us and we're looking at opening up the Rift Valley through sports tourism circuits.
 
We build the infrastructure to then enable anyone that would like to maybe train with the champions, dine with the champions, run with the champions, 
 
 can really get a platform to showcase.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:27]
 
ASHER: All right. The opening ceremony for the 2024 Paris Olympics will begin almost exactly 24 hours from now. But don't tell that to the 
 
 competition's already underway, football, handball, rugby and archery are all getting a head start with matches happening right now.
 
CNN's World Sports' Don Riddell is here with all the latest results.
 
So, Don, we haven't even really started yet, but there's been a lot of drama already in just the first two days.
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yeah, absolutely. And one of those games are happening now in the shadow of some pretty extreme controversy.
 
So the Canadian women's soccer team are the defending gold medalist. They took the gold in Tokyo three years ago.
 
On the eve of the tournament, they were accused of spying on their first opponent's New Zealand by operating a drone to monitor the New Zealand 
 
 training session.
 
That, of course, did not go down at all well. Two members of the Canadian women's team have been sent home.
 
The women's coach of the Canadian team, Bev Priestman, agreed to sit out this opening game against New Zealand. And this game is currently underway, 
 
 and it's not far from being over, to be honest. And within the last couple of minutes, Canada have gone two one up against New Zealand.
 
So I'm sure an awful lot is going to be said about what the Canadian team knew, how, of course, they got that information and whether or not that 
 
 impacted the result.
 
Meanwhile, you mentioned that the archery is happening. And we've already seen not just an Olympic record, but a world record broken here on 
 
 Thursday.
 
The South Korean women's team are so good. They are going for a 10th consecutive title here.
 
And their star, Lim Sihyeon (ph), has just shot a world record 694 points. And this isn't even in the main competition. This is just in qualifying, 
 
 but already the South Korean archers very much bringing it to these Olympic games.
 
ASHER: Certainly a lot of --  a lot of drama already.
 
But before you go, just talk to us about one particular athlete, with a really moving story, an Australian field hockey player who's gone to some 
 
 very extraordinary lengths to be able to compete.
 
RIDDELL: Yes. That is quite an understatement, Zain.
 
Remember, the Olympic games only come around once every four years, so you don't want to miss them.
 
Matt Dawson is an Australian hockey player. He actually won silver with his team in Tokyo. Two weeks ago, he was injured. His finger was hit with a 
 
 stick, and by all accounts, the finger was pretty much severed. I gather he was lucky that any of it was left hanging on. Apologies for the details.
 
But then he went to see the doctor, and the doctor said, well, you've got two choices. We can either stick some wire in it and try to reconstruct it, 
 
 but that means you're not going to better do anything for four to six months, or we can just amputate the bit of that finger, and you can go to 
 
 the Olympics.
 
So being a competitor, not wanting to miss the Olympics, he said, well, let's just cut it off and I'll go to the game. So here we are, Matt Dawson 
 
 -- 
 
ASHER: Oh -- 
 
RIDDELL: -- came ready to play for the Australian team -- 
 
ASHER: -- my.
 
RIDDELL: -- missing half his finger. That's -- sometimes that's what it takes, right?
 
ASHER: My God. I mean, I'm never going to -- I'm never going to forget that story. That is an incredible story.
 
RIDDELL: Yes.
 
ASHER: Just the lengths that people -- I mean, you're right, it is once every four years. And it is a lifelong dream for a lot of people.
 
RIDDELL: Right.
 
ASHER: And so they're willing to do whatever it takes in order to be there.
 
RIDDELL: Yes.
 
ASHER: That is really, really powerful stuff.
 
Don Riddell live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
And before we go, Gaza may seem like a world away from Paris in the Summer Olympics, but some Palestinian young people are bringing it a little 
 
 closer.
 
These kids, sheltering in a Gaza school, organized a football tournament to provide a much-needed distraction from the devastation all around them.
 
One of the organizers says all the stadiums and clubs are destroyed, so they hope their tournament will send a message to the world.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUSTAFA ABU HASHISH, DISPLACED PALESTINIAN: We are trying to hold sports activities in this school. We are trying to change the reality of life that 
 
 we are in, and entertain people and children as much as possible.
 
We are also trying to convey a message to the world that we are people who deserve to live and are looking for their rights and life, the rights of 
 
 their children.
 
Our message is very simple, we are a nation that is subjected to injustice, and we want people to see us and know everything that happens to us through 
 
 sports.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: The group had to play with an old ball, but they did find a trophy in the rubble to give to the winning team.
 
And just a reminder for you, tune in to our special one-hour program aiming for gold this Friday at 7:00 P.M. That's Paris time. That is 1:00 P.M. if 
 
 you're watching in the Eastern Part of the United States.
 <br>[12:55:05]
 
Our correspondents, Amanda Davies, Melissa Bell, Coy Wire, are all in the French capital. They're all in Paris and will give us the sights and the 
 
 sounds from the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games.
 
All right. Thank you so much for being with us for this hour of ONE WORLD. I am Zain Asher. As always, we appreciate you watching.
 
"AMANPOUR" has very, very special coverage of the Olympics, live from Paris, is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END