Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Biden to Hold Crucial News Conference, First since Debate Disaster; Medecins sans Frontieres' Last Northern Gaza Facility Closes; U.S. to Resume Shipping 500-Pound Bombs to Israel; Sudan on Brink of Collapse and Starvation; Rising Global Incidence of Violence toward Women and Girls; Call to Earth: Poaching; Kenyan President Dissolves Cabinet. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired July 11, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from CNN Abu Dhabi, this is CONNECT THE WORLD with Becky Anderson. 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNNI HOST (voice-over):  Welcome to our second hour of the show. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, where the time is 6:00 in the 
 
 evening. It's 10:00 am in Washington, where the U.S. President is getting ready for what could be the most consequential appearance of his political 
 
 career. 
 
Plus China hitting back after NATO called it a decisive enabler of Russia's war on Ukraine. 
 
And after a shocking triple murder in the United Kingdom, we take a look at the epidemic of violence against women with Australia's first Secretary for 
 
 Men's Behavior Change.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, exactly two weeks after his debate disaster in Atlanta, U.S. President Joe Biden faces another crucial test to try and convince 
 
 Democratic lawmakers and the American public that he is fit to serve for another four years in the White House.
 
Well, later today he'll hold a solo news conference at the conclusion of what is the NATO summit in Washington. Now this comes as more Democrats are 
 
 publicly saying that he should quit the 2024 race, including, for the first time, a Senate Democrat, Peter Welch of Vermont.
 
Arlette Saenz, back with us this hour from the White House. 
 
And we are calling this news conference, which will wrap up this incredibly important NATO summit celebrating the 75th anniversary of the alliance. Joe 
 
 Biden will conduct that news conference as we understand it on his own about seven or so hours from now. 
 
We are calling it consequential. I certainly think our viewers will understand why. 
 
Does the White House understand the enormity of where the U.S. President stands at this point? 
 
Is it clear?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the White House and the campaign understands the enormous pressure that President Biden is in, in this 
 
 moment. 
 
And they are fully aware that many voters as well as members of their own party will be closely watching this press conference to see exactly how 
 
 President Biden performs. This will be a solo news conference, which is really a rarity in the Biden White House. He has held only 15 solo press 
 
 conferences and this is the first one he's doing this year. 
 
Typically, his press conferences that he has held are with other foreign leaders, where he's not just at the podium by himself, taking rounds of 
 
 questions from multiple reporters. But that is something that will play out this afternoon -- or this evening, I should say -- here in Washington, D.C. 
 
Now the president's allies have really encouraged him to try to engage in press conferences, interviews, town halls, facing tough questions to show 
 
 voters that he can engage in these impromptu, unscripted moments. 
 
But so much attention will be paid not just to what President Biden says but to how exactly he says it. So many people here in Washington watching 
 
 this very closely as the president is hoping that he can stem any further Democratic dissent as there have been pockets of the Democratic Party 
 
 expressing concern about him remaining in this race. 
 
While there are many who are publicly saying the president should stay in this race, there are others who feel differently. 
 
At least 10 Democratic lawmakers up on Capitol Hill have said that it's time for him to step aside and, privately, many more are expressing 
 
 concerns, not just about Biden's ability to win in November but also Democrats in the House and Senate's ability to win in the November election 
 
 as well.
 
Now the president also is facing a bit of a tough time we're told when it pertains to donors and fundraising. One source familiar with the operation 
 
 telling me that it's been a rough go since the debate. 
 
Another Democratic strategist saying that essentially so much of the fundraising is frozen at a time when many big donors have come out to say 
 
 that they are withholding money from Democrats unless President Biden were to leave the Democratic ticket. So all of these factors are at play as the 
 
 president is plotting his next steps. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
He has aggressively said that he is remaining in this race. 
 
But there are still some Democrats wondering if there's a chance he could change his mind. And a lot of attention will be paid to tonight's press 
 
 conference to see how he performs and whether that might give any Democrats further pause about him staying in this race at this moment.
 
ANDERSON:  We will see. Thank you for that.
 
We'll have full coverage of that event later on CNN. It begins around 6:30 Eastern time, by the way. That's around 11:30 in London. And here in Abu 
 
 Dhabi, that is about 2:30 am. 
 
As we await that press conference, China pushing back against accusations by NATO that it is enabling Russia in its war on Ukraine, calling that 
 
 claim, quote, "unreasonable and sinister." 
 
Beijing also condemning a document signed by NATO member countries, which it says is full of exaggerations. And it is urging the alliance to correct 
 
 its perception of Beijing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIN JIAN, SPOKESPERSON, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY (through translator):  On the issue of Ukraine, NATO hyped up China's responsibility. It makes no 
 
 sense and it comes with malicious intent. 
 
With China's objective and impartial position and constructive role on the issue of Ukraine have been widely recognized by the international 
 
 community. Without any evidence, NATO has continued to spread false information fabricated by the United States and openly discredited China. 
 
This provokes China-E.U. relations and undermines China-E.U. cooperation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, CNN's national security correspondent, Natasha Bertrand, is live at the NATO summit in Washington. 
 
Natasha, NATO hardening its stance on Beijing in -- physically, in the communique, in a narrative that, frankly, I don't think necessarily 
 
 surprises anybody and ultimately is unlikely to have surprised Beijing. 
 
Of course, we're going to get the statement that we've got from them in their words that we've got from them. 
 
But is anybody there surprised at just how unequivocal NATO has been in its attitude toward China? 
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  I think there's definitely a general recognition here that this is a significant shift for 
 
 the NATO alliance, just in terms of saying in such stark terms in a joint communique, in a statement that is backed by all 32 members of this 
 
 alliance, that what China is doing is unacceptable. 
 
And the alliance is aware of it and that there will be consequences. Just to take a step back here, China has been accused by the U.S. multiple times 
 
 of providing a significant number of parts and microchips and microelectronics to Russia, that it basically helps sustain Russia's war 
 
 economy. 
 
And secretary of state Antony Blinken has made it very clear that they believe that Russia or that China is essentially fueling the war in Ukraine 
 
 because of the support that it has given to Russia, which has been able to sustain this war because of that support, given all of the sanctions that 
 
 have been imposed, of course, on Russia's economy. 
 
And so this is really a major step, getting all of these members of the alliance to agree to this very strong language, because several members, of 
 
 course, including France and Germany. 
 
In previous years, they have been more reluctant to call out China as directly because of the deep economic ties that exist between some of those 
 
 European countries and the Chinese. 
 
But at the same time, this is just becoming impossible to ignore because it has such a direct impact on, according to officials, EuroAtlantic security. 
 
 Just the fact that the war in Ukraine is being fueled here by all of these components that the Chinese are continuing to provide. 
 
Now we have seen the U.S. impose a number of sanctions on several Chinese companies that have been involved in providing this equipment to the 
 
 Russians. 
 
And we have not yet seen the Chinese actually go as far as to provide weaponry, like fully constructed weaponry to the Russians, because there's 
 
 a recognition in Beijing that even that might cross a red line. 
 
But the U.S. and its allies, they have not put that past the Chinese. And they say that it is possible that they continue to escalate their support 
 
 for the Russians. So this is really a call here for the Chinese to stop saying that they understand what they're doing. 
 
The U.S. has shared significant intelligence about this with other NATO allies. And at this point, it remains unclear just what kind of action the 
 
 NATO allies are going to take. But if it continues, do expect to see significant sanctions against the Chinese companies, at least, that have 
 
 been enabling this. 
 
ANDERSON:  It's a busy day in Washington, certainly there at the NATO summit.  Natasha, thank you.
 
Well, Doctors without Borders says its last health facility in northern Gaza has temporarily closed. That's following mass evacuation orders by the 
 
 Israeli military. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
It says its teams in Gaza City continued to care for patients until the last possible minute. 
 
We're also learning more about a deadly Israeli strike on a school complex near Khan Yunis earlier this week, which a CNN analyst determines was 
 
 carried out with U.S.-made munition missions. CNN's Jeremy Diamond has more. And a warning, his report contains graphic images. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Amid the cheers and whistles of a summertime soccer match, the war seems far away in this Gazan 
 
 schoolyard, until another bomb jolts everyone back to reality. And the sights and sounds of war fill the air once again. 
 
People running for their lives, the cries of women and children growing louder and louder and bodies strewn on the ground.
 
An Israeli airstrike has hit the other side of the al-Awda school near Khan Younis, where thousands of displaced Palestinians were sheltering. In the 
 
 backs of pickup trucks and crowded ambulances, the dead and the injured arrive at Al-Nasser Hospital. 
 
Among them are the bodies of children, limp, bloodied and blackened. They are rushed inside a quickly overwhelmed emergency room. At least 27 people 
 
 were killed and 53 injured in the strike, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health. 
 
The Israeli military said its target was a Hamas militant who took part in the October 7th terrorist attack but provided no additional details. It 
 
 said it is looking into reports that civilians were harmed.
 
It doesn't take long to find evidence of civilian harm amid the wreckage, where these women are inconsolable over the loss of their father. 
 
"Your death broke me, Father," one of them cries, as she looks at a photo of him on her phone. 
 
At the site of the strike, Um Muhammad (ph) explains that everyone here were simply trying to make a living. 
 
"This was Bilal's (ph) area," she says. "He was operating a charging point. He had a stall here and he tried to make a living from charging batteries 
 
 and cell phones. His body was torn to pieces by the blast alongside the outlets he used to make a living. 
 
"Look at what is happening in Gaza. Every country is asleep and the whole world is asleep and we die here."
 
The strike is part of a troubling trend. It is the fourth strike on or near a school sheltering displaced Palestinians in the last four days, killing 
 
 47 people and injuring many others. 
 
There is also the latest in a series of strikes to use this American-made munition, the GBU-39 small diameter bomb, identified by two weapons experts 
 
 who reviewed this footage. 
 
It is intended to minimize casualties. But this is the aftermath when it is dropped on a densely populated area. Body bag after body bag as relatives 
 
 mourn. 
 
"Life is gone. Muhammad (ph) is gone," this mother wails, another mother's unbearable grief -- Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Meantime, the Biden administration is set to resume shipping 500-pound bombs to Israel. 
 
That delivery was put on hold in May because the shipment also contained 2,000-pound bombs which Washington have decided to withhold. U.S. security 
 
 correspondent Kylie Atwood is in Washington for us. 
 
And this is just less than a week or so before the Israeli prime minister is in Washington, of course. 
 
Why do we understand -- what is it about the timing here that is important?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Well, listen, it's significant given that it's been the prime minister who has repeatedly made 
 
 comments about delayed shipments. 
 
U.S. officials on the other hand, have repeatedly said, listen, there has been one shipment that was paused but the rest is going on at a regular 
 
 pace. 
 
And so it's significant, now, just to kind of focus in on this specific shipment and the decision that the Biden administration has made now, more 
 
 than two months after they paused this initial shipment of bombs, to send part of this shipment along. 
 
That is, as you said, the part that is the 500-pound bombs. There were also initially going to be 2000-pound bombs in this shipment. It was a co-
 
 mingled shipment that often happens when there are scheduled deliveries of weapons that are going overseas from the United States.
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
So it was all supposed to go in one. But when the Biden administration decided to put a hold on those 2000-pound bombs, it also inevitably put a 
 
 hold on what else was in that shipment. That's the 500-pound bombs. 
 
So the White House, a U.S. official, is now saying that they are going to be releasing the 500-pound bombs. But of course, significantly, Becky, we 
 
 need to know that the 2,000-pound bombs are still paused. 
 
Those are the ones that the Biden administration was worried about being used in Rafah as that operation was ongoing because of how densely 
 
 populated that area is. And the U.S. official said that those concerns remain. 
 
They do not want those 2000-pound bombs to be used in densely populated areas like Rafah or elsewhere in Gaza. So that's why they're still holding 
 
 onto those. 
 
This is an area for us to watch, though, as the prime minister is coming here and this has been a point of tension between the United States and 
 
 Israel, increasingly so in recent weeks. 
 
ANDERSON:  It's fascinating. Well, stay on it for us. Thank you very much indeed. 
 
You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi for you, where the time is 6:15 in the evening. This is our Middle East programming 
 
 hub. Of course.
 
Coming up the forgotten conflict more than a year into a brutal civil war. 
 
Can there be peace in Sudan? 
 
We'll be asking one of those attempting just that.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  In the last nine months, the world's attention rightly has been focused on Gaza and those who need help so badly, there. 
 
However, there is a forgotten war in East Africa, Sudan. Aid agencies warn the country is on the brink of collapse after more than a year of civil 
 
 war. 
 
The conflict which has pitted the Sudanese Armed Forces or the SAF against the paramilitary group the Rapid Support Forces or RSF has left millions of 
 
 people displaced and countless civilians dead or severely injured. 
 
Let's not forget the geography of Sudan, its location; just look at the number of countries in its vicinity on this map means any instability can 
 
 cause problems around the region for East Africa and indeed for the Middle East.
 
Well, last weekend, Egypt hosted an international meeting to address the crisis in Sudan, where former prime minister Abdalla Hamdok said his 
 
 country is facing an existential crisis.
 
Well, the issue high on the foreign policy agenda of Abu Dhabi, where we broadcast this from. It is focused on humanitarian aid into Sudan. Last 
 
 month it announced it had allocated $70 million to the United Nations to get that aid across the border out of a pledge of some $100 million. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
Abu Dhabi also says it has contributed $130 million for regional countries who have been receiving an influx of refugees.
 
Well, that effort prompted Martin Griffiths, who was U.N.'s undersecretary general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordinator at the 
 
 time, to thank UAE for its, quote, "compassion and solidarity."
 
Well, I sat down with Lana Nusseibeh, who is the former UAE ambassador to the United Nations. We sat down for a wide ranging discussion that touched 
 
 on Sudan and Gaza. She is now the UAE assistant minister for political affairs and envoy of the minister of foreign affairs. 
 
I asked her first to describe the scale of the tragedy that we are seeing unfold. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LANA NUSSEIBEH, FORMER UAE AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.:  The UAE has been trying to put the spotlight on the situation in Sudan because it is an 
 
 humanitarian, political, global and regional catastrophe that is unfolding before all of our eyes. 
 
Nine million people are one step away from famine; 25 million people are desperately in need of food this year. Aid is piling up at the border in 
 
 Chad, in Port Sudan, unable to go in. 
 
And as the WFP said to you on your show last week, access, access, access. 
 
ANDERSON:  The UAE's humanitarian effort has been significant. It has also built two field hospitals in Chad to support the Sudanese people. And it's 
 
 been accused of using one of those hospitals in northeast Chad to supply anti-tank missiles and drones to the RSF. 
 
Is the UAE arming him at these forces?
 
NUSSEIBEH:  No. Those allegations are categorically untrue. The UAE, as it has done in countless places around the world when there is a humanitarian 
 
 crisis, has projected humanitarian aid in as quickly as possible and then scaled that way. 
 
Don't forget that the UAE and Dubai is a humanitarian logistics hub that is used by the United Nations and partners to deliver aid to those most in 
 
 need. So we have a field hospital in Gaza. 
 
We have sent Airbridge operations of humanitarian aid to Sudan. In fact, in 2020 after the floods, to Turkiye and Syria, over 200 planes went there 
 
 after the earthquake as you remember. 
 
And of course, an average operation to Gaza itself with over 270 flights to Gaza. This is standard practice by the United Arab Emirates when we see 
 
 desperation on ground with people at the forefront bearing the brunt of the conflict. 
 
And the hospitals in Chad are being used to treat those wounded by the conflict who are spilling over the border. 
 
ANDERSON:  Sudan's finance minister said over the weekend to Reuters at the Cairo meeting, quote, "An end to this war is not realistic without the 
 
 withdrawal of the RSF from civilian areas," in line with an agreement signed last year in Jeddah. 
 
And he says an end to the material support to the RSF by the UAE. 
 
U.N. experts have said that accusations of such support are credible. 
 
You dispute the findings of that U.N. panel?
 
NUSSEIBEH:  Yes, absolutely. And we have submitted the relevant evidence to the U.N. Security Council on the panel of experts. But again, let's not let 
 
 the detractors, the warring parties on the ground deflect from the fact that that same group have not agreed to go to talks for four months. 
 
So that's the first point. We need a ceasefire now, we need a political process. The two sides need to agree to come to talks and discuss with the 
 
 civilian population the future of their country. I think that's the first thing. 
 
We need to see a scale up of humanitarian aid. The weaponization of food aid is unacceptable in Sudan, just as it was unacceptable in Gaza. The 
 
 application of international humanitarian law is a prerequisite for a secure, stable Sudan. 
 
So I think that's the second point. The third point is that this political process needs to happen and it needs to happen with the contribution of the 
 
 Sudanese people. 
 
ANDERSON:  You were at the Cairo meeting just this past weekend. 
 
There the Egyptian foreign minister said, and I quote, "The stark deterioration on the humanitarian situation, the catastrophic consequences 
 
 of the crisis, call on all of us to work immediately and sustainably to stop the military operations." 
 
Is there any indication through the meeting you were at this weekend that there is likely to be an end to this war anytime soon? 
 
NUSSEIBEH:  Look, it's a complicated question. There are a number of actors who are trying to reenergize that process toward a ceasefire. The U.N. 
 
 Security Council has called for a ceasefire that should be implemented. They've called for the scale up of aid; that should be implemented. 
 
We're fully supportive of the Jeddah process. And I think that Egypt has done an incredible job of bringing together the different civilian 
 
 components of the Sudan to come out with a global message.
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
What they'd like to see for the future of Sudan, at the end of the day, it's not for the UAE or for any other country to say what kind of 
 
 government the Sudanese government should be. 
 
But what we do see in Sudan's history is that a civilian led government has been the most stable kind of government. And I think that the two generals 
 
 need to come to the table, the RSF and the SAF, and discuss the transition that was deterred in 2019, 2023 and prior to that. 
 
Let's not forget the stakes here. They are bigger than the suffering on ground of the country, which is dire and can be prevented. You're talking 
 
 about a country that, in the 1990s, hosted Osama bin Laden, where extremism and terrorism was able to take root and planned 9-1-1. 
 
So Sudan is too big to fail. It could become a regional force destabilized or to all of those neighboring countries that are also fragile. And it 
 
 would definitely impact regional security of the Middle East. 
 
ANDERSON:  Lana, let's focus on Gaza. 
 
What is the long term solution at this point?
 
We don't even have a truce, let alone a ceasefire. Potentially we may get some movement on at least a temporary truce. 
 
What is the long-term solution for Gaza?
 
NUSSEIBEH:  The long-term solution for Gaza and for the West Bank is the creation of a two-state solution and making that viable today and 
 
 contiguous. It is more important than ever before. 
 
That's first and foremost. But like in Sudan, in Gaza, we need a ceasefire and we need it immediately. 
 
ANDERSON:  And once we have a ceasefire, what does a day after look like?
 
How is Gaza governed and how will the UAE be involved in the governance, security and reconstruction of the enclave? 
 
NUSSEIBEH:  Well, I think, first and foremost, the Palestinian people will decide, like in other contexts. We respect the sovereignty of each people 
 
 in their country and their boundaries. They will decide how they choose to take their aspirations for a statehood forward. 
 
But it's very clear that the capacity doesn't exist today that needs to be rebolstered in the Palestinian Authority and revitalized and reformed. 
 
It's also very clear that, on the Israeli side, we need to hear from them a political vision, a political horizon for how a Palestinian state will come 
 
 into being that respects the security and the sovereignty and the presence of Israel in our integrated region. 
 
And I think that's, that's the end point. We need to work back from there. 
 
ANDERSON:  Will the UAE work with the PA, Palestinian Authority? 
 
NUSSEIBEH:  The UAE will work with a reformed and revitalized Palestinian Authority that is able to implement the changes that are needed on the 
 
 ground. 
 
And the UAE is part of an Arab consensus for the two-state solution and the roadmap. And I think that this is, this is clear now, that what we need is 
 
 a renewed effort from international partners, from the United States to get to that point. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Lana Nusseibeh speaking to me both about Gaza and, as importantly, of course, about Sudan.
 
Well, still to come this hour, a shocking triple killing allegedly involving a crossbow puts the horror of violence against women back in the 
 
 spotlight. 
 
I'm going to speak to a politician who is campaigning for change. That is coming up. 
 
And U.S. President Joe Biden, just hours away from another crucial test that could make or break his bid for reelection. We take a closer look at 
 
 what is his upcoming solo news conference at the NATO summit in Washington.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Welcome back. 
 
You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson, just after 6:30 in the evening as we await what is, by all accounts, a crucial moment for 
 
 the U.S. President Joe Biden later on today. 
 
A solo news conference and amid real concern for his campaign with increasingly public calls for Mr. Biden to drop out of the presidential 
 
 race. One of those reasons is money. Deep pocketed donors are withholding their checks. 
 
A Democratic strategist tells CNN, quote, "Everything is frozen because no one knows what is going to happen. Everyone is in a wait and see mode."
 
Well, Mr. Biden also notably losing the support of Hollywood megastar, George Clooney, who says that, despite his love for the president, 
 
 Democrats need to find a different nominee.
 
Well, Stephen Collinson joins me now. 
 
Let's just be absolutely clear about this. Joe Biden says he's staying in the race and we have heard nothing more from him to suggest that that's 
 
 going to change. But George Clooney's op-ed, Stephen, damning. Let's just review a little bit for the viewers. 
 
"I love Joe Biden but we need a new nominee," he said. 
 
We saw footage from a fund-raiser recently, Obama having to help Joe Biden off the stage, that was at a fund-raiser organized, as we understand it, by 
 
 George Clooney. And we have a lot of reports that, during the interview -- Biden has been -- or during interviews recently, Biden has been losing his 
 
 train of thought, as I seem to be doing as well.
 
Do you expect to see more donors and supporters follow George Clooney's lead at this point? 
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, that was a bit of a bombshell because of the way that Clooney lay down the case. 
 
And it was laid out, I think, more clearly than other people have been doing it, just on the supposed deterioration of the president's condition. 
 
 Clooney isn't just a Hollywood star, one of these Hollywood liberals.
 
He is very well connected to the inner workings of the Democratic Party, he's raised millions of dollars over the years. He talks to a lot of donors 
 
 and lawmakers. So I think it's fair to say that what he said is reflecting a much wider span of opinion than just a Hollywood actor. So that's one 
 
 thing. 
 
This press conference today is massive. I don't remember any presidential press conference that has come with the stakes at the presidency of the 
 
 person giving it itself could be under threat. The bad thing here for Joe Biden is that, if he messes up, obviously his position is going to get 
 
 worse. 
 
But even if he does really well, I don't think it's going to quell a lot of the anxiety among lawmakers about exactly where this campaign is going. 
 
ANDERSON:  This is, of course, all about the domestic audience and his domestic colleagues in the Democratic Party. Let's remember where he is 
 
 this week. He is at the NATO summit; 32 leaders of the north -- the alliance. And one of those, the Finnish president, had this to say a little 
 
 earlier, Stephen.
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEXANDER STUBB, FINNISH PRESIDENT:  I've had the opportunity to speak to President Biden on many occasions during the past 48 hours. I have 
 
 absolutely no concerns about the capacity of the current President of the United States to lead his country and to lead our fight for Ukraine and to 
 
 lead NATO. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  I'm sure the Finnish president and others wish that they weren't being asked about the, you know, the mental acuity of the U.S. President 
 
 when I'm sure they've got much, much, much better things to speak about this being the 75th anniversary of the alliance. 
 
But be that as it may, they are getting asked. This is a massive topic of conversation for so many people. 
 
What can the U.S. President do to turn the tide tonight? 
 
COLLINSON:  You know, I'm not really sure what he can do and that is the real problem. He -- the reason these lawmakers are coming out and saying 
 
 they want another candidate is because they're politicians. 
 
They're reading the polls, they're talking to people back home and 50 million people saw the version of Biden in that debate. 
 
While I think it's quite feasible that the president is completely able to fill -- fulfill his duties, his national security responsibilities, grave 
 
 decision-making in the Situation Room of the White House right now, the problem that a lot of voters have is that Biden is asking for a second 
 
 term. 
 
That would last until January 2029. Many voters do not see, having witnessed that debate, that that is a realistic possibility that he could 
 
 fully serve the duties of president in four years' time, not just now. 
 
Many voters on the Democratic side believe Joe Biden has earned a second term, that he has been very successful. But his age and his physical 
 
 condition just makes it much less likely in the views of many of them that he can actually win that second term. 
 
So he has an almost impossible political conundrum to solve. 
 
ANDERSON:  Good to have you, sir. And as you speak, we look at images of Washington, D.C. We've been looking at images of some of those leaders 
 
 gathered there for the NATO meeting and they will hear, as the rest of us will, from the U.S. President at a news conference later. Today.
 
Right. Of course you can get that here on CNN. Of course, let's get you up to speed and some of the other stories before that that are on our radar, 
 
 right now. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Actor Alec Baldwin's involuntary manslaughter trial is expected to resume this hour in Santa Fe, New Mexico. It's been nearly 
 
 three years since a cinematographer was fatally shot on a film set as Baldwin and others were rehearsing.
 
Prosecutors argued on Wednesday during opening statements that the actor was negligent in his handling of the gun. Baldwin has pleaded not guilty. 
 
In New York are closing arguments from the defense have just resumed in a wide-ranging corruption case involving U.S. senator Bob Menendez and two of 
 
 his co-defendants. 
 
Once the defense finishes, the prosecution will follow with its rebuttal before the case is ultimately handed to the jury. All three men have 
 
 pleaded not guilty. 
 
Tributes are being paid to three women killed in what police say was a crossbow attack near London earlier this week. Figures from the sporting 
 
 world expressed shock and offered condolences to the BBC racing commentator John Hunt and his family after his wife, Carol, and their adult daughters, 
 
 Louise and Hannah, were killed. 
 
Police said they detained a 26-year-old man in connection with the attack on Wednesday. 
 
While this incident is incredibly tragic, it is sadly not uncommon. Violence against women is endemic in our society. This is the number that 
 
 you need to know today. 
 
In 2022, 48,800 women and girls were killed worldwide by intimate partners or other family members. That is an average of 133 women and girls killed 
 
 every single day.
 
Well, my next guest is Australia's first parliamentary secretary for men's behavior change. Tim Richardson writes this on social media after a woman 
 
 was killed and her body dumped in a waste management facility in Australia.
 
Quote, "We know that ending gendered-based violence must always start with men and boys. 
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
"It isn't about 'not all men' but the fact that all men and boys have a role to play and can make a difference across every part of society." 
 
And I am very pleased to welcome Tim Richardson to the show, live from Melbourne, Australia, for us today. 
 
What went through your mind when you first heard of this crossbow attack just to the north of London?
 
TIM RICHARDSON, AUSTRALIAN PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY FOR MEN'S BEHAVIOR CHANGE:  Yes, it's devastating. And, Becky, it's good to be with you and 
 
 your viewers. And would have been better to connect under less tragic circumstances. 
 
It's just a devastating, another devastating case of loss of life. Carol, Hannah and Louise, all with so much ahead of them and where they should 
 
 have been safest, in their home. And to see that devastating impact, the outpouring of grief, anger and trauma in communities. 
 
It's felt worldwide and, sadly, we see another example of gender-based violence across our world in the U.K. 
 
ANDERSON:  We don't want to speculate too much on this case. There are reports that one of the young women murdered by this suspect actually knew 
 
 him and may have been in a relationship with him. 
 
And we will learn more as the days, of course, go on. It is extremely tragic. Your role was created because gender-based violence statistics in 
 
 both your state of Victoria and in Australia as a whole had reached breaking point. 
 
Our Watch Australia says, I just want to get these numbers for our viewers, that a woman is killed every nine days on average by a current or former 
 
 partner. 
 
Sir, where does your work start? 
 
RICHARDSON:  Yes. 
 
That's a devastating statistic and brought us (ph) a community campaign to really look for answers. So we've seen 49 women and girls who have been 
 
 killed by men in Australia. And it saw tens of thousands of people take to the streets, demanding action and saying enough is enough. 
 
So my role is, as parliamentary secretary for men's behavior change, is to is really recognize that the answer to gendered based violence and violence 
 
 against women and girls starts with men and boys. 
 
We need to change those damaging stereotypes and attitudes that embed that toxic approach. And we see the disrespect that happens. And all this starts 
 
 with disrespect to women and girls. It's on a continuum. 
 
And that impact and that deterioration sees some of the most tragic consequences. So we need that accountability of perpetrators. We need to 
 
 know how do we respond. So many people are feeling hopeless when they see these tragic murders and killings. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON:  Right. 
 
RICHARDSON:  And they're asking what is next. 
 
ANDERSON:  how concerned are you about the role of social media and influences?
 
And we are seeing increasingly concerning narratives by influencers, who, you frankly should just be labeled misogynists. 
 
How big an impact do they have? 
 
When we look at these horrifying statistics, a new report out from the U.N, suggesting nearly 50,000 women and girls worldwide were killed by their 
 
 intimate partners or all other family members. 
 
RICHARDSON:  Yes. 
 
And hundreds of millions, some 736 million have been subjected to sexual or physical violence. That's a lived experience of trauma, an impact that 
 
 lives with people for life. And then the lives lost, people that have been killed. 
 
And that all starts with disrespectful attitudes toward women. So what we need to do and responders, as men and boys, is to model positive role 
 
 modeling healthy masculinities and what it means to be men and boys in all of our communities around the world. 
 
And that starts -- that's why I say -- it's people say, well, it's not all men. But it starts with disrespect and it's us bringing up standards and 
 
 calling out poor attitudes and disrespect toward women and impairing those conversations as well.
 
So early intervention and programs in our schools and our communities as sporting clubs are so important in Australia. We have a program called 
 
 Respectful Relationships and that's embedded in the school curriculum to help educate boys and girls around those positive and healthy 
 
 relationships. 
 
Some of the hardest parts of these reforms are going to be the cultural changes over time. And that's how you respond in the long term. In the 
 
 immediate, you need to provide safe places for women and girls and children and to hold perpetrators to account. 
 
But that generational change in Australia is ambitious, is to end gender based violence in a generation. Starts with those community conversations 
 
 and challenging those disrespectful and toxic attitudes toward women and girls. 
 
ANDERSON:  It's good to have you. Your insight is invaluable. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
Thank you very much indeed for joining us. 
 
You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson. Time here, 6:45 in the evening. We are broadcasting to you from Abu Dhabi in the UAE. Coming 
 
 up on this show, CNN visits a first-of-its-kind facility in South Africa, teaching the skills to catch animal poachers. More on that is coming up.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Around the world, wildlife crime, including animal trafficking and poaching, is on the rise. 
 
And it poses a major threat to biodiversity. Today on "Call to Earth," we visit a facility in South Africa that aims to reverse that trend. Have a 
 
 look at this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Within landscapes like this all across the continent of Africa, poaching persists as a 
 
 serious problem. But inside this building, sitting in the middle of a game and nature reserve, about an hour north of Cape Town, there is new hope in 
 
 ending the crisis. 
 
GREG SIMPSON, CO-FOUNDER, WILDLIFE FORENSIC ACADEMY (voice-over):  The Wildlife Forensic Academy is a unique facility focusing on the training of 
 
 individuals that come across a wildlife crime scene. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  The animals in this first-of-a-kind facility are real. 
 
And were preserved through the taxidermy process. The blood is fake. 
 
SIMPSON (voice-over):  Wildlife crimes often are processed initially by individuals that don't necessarily have training around law enforcement 
 
 from a legal perspective.
 
So they often don't collect evidence correctly or they don't even notice this evidence. So what is really important is to give people skills that 
 
 they can collect evidence so that the evidence can be used in an investigation. And hopefully down the line, that will end up in a 
 
 prosecution. 
 
LEITAH MKHABELA, RANGER:  This is something that we can come across every day. 
 
We have higher rate of rhino poaching and we have so many poachers that walked free in court because rangers didn't collect evidence enough or they 
 
 don't know how to collect evidence. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
MKHABELA (voice-over):  So it is important for rangers to get this knowledge. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  Co-founder and veterinarian Greg Simpson first encountered the issue while training veterinary students. 
 
SIMPSON (voice-over):  We noticed more and more poachings. And then I would take my students to these events and help them process them, find the 
 
 bullets, et cetera. And I realized that we didn't get that kind of training as veterinarians. We didn't really get forensic training. 
 
And so we saw the need to try and capitalize improvements and improve biodiversity protection. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  There are also simulations of a poacher's house and truck. And an inflatable boat, which could be used for poaching marine 
 
 life. 
 
SIMPSON (voice-over):  Historically, wildlife forensics has not had the profile that it needs. 
 
With increasing crimes, particularly certain animals like rhinos and elephants, it's got much better profile. So it's becoming more important.
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
And people are seeing the value of forensics in a wildlife crime scene. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  The training is led by crime scene and legal experts like Petro van der Westhuizen, who spent 21 years as an investigator the 
 
 South African Police Service. 
 
PETRO VAN DER WESTHUIZEN, FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE INVESTIGATOR (voice-over):  Today we created a scenario of a rhino poaching for them. 
 
 We've divided them into teams and now they have to investigate the scene and see if they can find the evidence linking the suspect to the scene. 
 
We use at a wildlife crime scene evidence that we know of that has previously been supplanted in court. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  The courses range from one to four weeks long and welcome students from all over the world. From vehicle searches to evidence 
 
 collection to properly handling documentation, the lessons culminate with a courtroom scenario, where students learn how to defend their case. 
 
PHIL SNIJMAN, DIRECTOR OF EDUCATION, WILDLIFE FORENSICS ACADEMY; FORMER STATE ADVOCATE AND PROSECUTOR:  The purpose of cross-examination is to test 
 
 the credibility, the trustworthiness of evidence.
 
And unless you can survive that cross-examination, it might mean that the court can or will like not accept your evidence. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  Arresting the criminals is a crucial first step in this global fight. But without conviction, the cycle is likely to continue. 
 
SIMPSON (voice-over):  legal wildlife trade, wildlife crimes is a real priority threat to biodiversity. It's a threat to human health. And if we 
 
 can improve the knowledge around this, an awareness, that will be really, really valuable.
 
So teaching people skills of how to document evidence is really important from a law enforcement perspective. And we really need to improve our law 
 
 enforcement around wildlife and the environment. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Let us know what you're doing to answer the call with the #CalltoEarth. Going to take a very short break. Back after that.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, we are monitoring developments in Kenya, fast moving developments, where president William Ruto has just fired all of his 
 
 cabinet ministers with immediate effect. 
 
And this, of course, comes after weeks of government demonstrations against proposed tax rises. In the thick of those demonstrations was CNN's Larry 
 
 Madowo and he joins us now from Nairobi with the very latest -- Larry. 
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, we've been covering these protests these past few weeks. And we heard from the youth. They are considering 
 
 this a win for them. The fact that president William Ruto was forced to fire his entire cabinet save for two, the deputy president, who is elected, 
 
 and the chief minister. 
 
They want even him gone because they say that position itself of the prime cabinet secretary is unconstitutional. But what it can have need of 
 
 accomplished here is extraordinary. There are people in the rest of the continent watching to see how to hold their own governments accountable. 
 
It's been discussed in parliaments of Ghana and Tanzania. There are other parts of the continent planning similar protests to hold their own 
 
 governments accountable. That's the extraordinary thing here. 
 
The young people went to the streets and they said we're overtaxed. We can't afford more. Your government is corrupt, that the cost of living is 
 
 too expensive and you have to fix all those. 
 
And president Ruto has been forced to, one, withdraw that controversial finance bill. And now fire his entire cabinet and is promising even more 
 
 radical changes in how he governs. 
 
I want to speak to Faith Nafula here, who's an advocate. 
 
You've been watching these protests. 
 
What do you make of this decision by president Ruto today?
 
FAITH NAFULA, LAWYER:  Thank you so much. First of all, this is a good step by the president. I'm not saying it's the end. It's a good start because 
 
 now he's actioning his promises. 
 <br>[10:55:00] 
 
We want action, we don't want dialogue. We don't want debate because the whole time it was debates about trucks. But now we want action. It's either 
 
 action or nothing. So this is a good start. 
 
And we're looking for -- to more actionable steps by the president. Think. 
 
MADOWO:  We've had people say Ruto must go. So that's the next step for some of these young people. They tell us, Becky, if he does not listen to 
 
 their demands, these young people, who largely organize on social media, many of them Gen Zs protesting for the first time. 
 
They say President Ruto has not listened to them. He himself has to go, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Fascinating. As I said, fast moving events in Kenya. 
 
Larry Madowo on the story for you. 
 
And that is it for us here on CONNECT THE WORLD. A reminder, of course, that the U.S. President will be speaking later today at the NATO summit. 
 
 This is a press conference to all intents and purposes. 
 
But of course, the world will be closely watching as he struggles to put an end to the calls for him to step aside. This is expected to be hugely 
 
 consequential as an appearance and we will be here to cover it for you. Stay with CNN. 
 
END