Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Sprint to Election Day Begins; Israel Braces For Strikes. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired August 07, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:26]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  Hello. I'm Wolf Blitzer reporting live from Tel Aviv, Israel. This is the special edition of the CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
We're following two major stories unfolding this hour. Right here in the Middle East, Israelis are bracing for an attack, as sources tell CNN U.S. intelligence is now seeing Iran and its proxies here in the region preparing for possible military strikes on Israel. 
 
That could happen any time. Right now, the U.S. and other countries are scrambling big time to try to de-escalate this very, very dangerous tense situation. 
 
Back in the United States, the race for the White House, meanwhile, is gaining new urgency right now. Just moments ago, we heard from J.D. Vance in Michigan. Later today, Donald Trump's running mate will travel to another battleground state, Wisconsin. And in those two states, he will share the spotlight with the Democrats' newly minted ticket, Kamala Harris and Tim Walz. 
 
They are launching their first full day of campaigning out there. 
 
But let's begin right here in the Middle East right now in the growing fears that strikes on Israel could push the region toward a much, much wider conflict. 
 
With me here in Tel Aviv, CNN's chief international correspondent, Clarissa Ward, over at the State Department, CNN's chief national security correspondent, Alex Marquardt. 
 
Clarissa, there's been a sense that Iranians are moving quickly to get this strike going. What are you hearing? What's the latest? Is there any possibility they could back out? 
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, I think the very fact that we're sitting here now eight days after the assassinations of Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas and Fuad Shukr of Hezbollah and there hasn't been retaliation means that potentially there is a little bit of wiggle room. There is space for diplomats to do what they are so furiously trying to do right now, which is to avert a retaliation. 
 
Right now, in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, you have an emergency meeting being held of the OIC, Islamic nations. Foreign minister level, the acting Iranian foreign minister is there. And, crucially, we have just learned that there was a phone call between French President Emmanuel Macron and the new president of Iran, Masoud Pezeshkian, in which Pezeshkian basically said, if you -- if the U.S. and the West wants to stop an attack or wants to decrease instability in the region, then they need to push for a cease-fire in Gaza. 
 
Again, that's a slight shift in the rhetoric that we have seen from Iran before, which was a harsh punishment is imminent and potentially leads some to believe that there could be the possibility if somehow cease-fire negotiations can get closer to the finish line of averting this retaliation, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER:  Because Iran has been warning now for several days that they're going to strike Israel and hit Israel hard. It would be pretty embarrassing to the Iranian leadership, especially after the ayatollah warned of a major retaliatory strike, for them to back away. 
 
WARD:  I think it would be embarrassing.
 
And also listen to what Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah, said yesterday. He said the waiting is part of the punishment, but the punishment will come. And you have to take into account as well the fact that Hamas has just announced that the new replacement leader of its political faction is Yahya Sinwar, right, one of the orchestrators, if not the orchestrator, of the October 7 attacks. 
 
That's sending a pretty clear signal about the direction Hamas wants to move in, and it's definitely dimming hopes for any kind of a cease- fire agreement. Sinwar has tried to prolong this conflict. He's tried to make it a regional conflict. He has very close ties to Iran, so none of that lending a lot of hope to this thought that maybe a cease- fire agreement could be in the near days. 
 
BLITZER:  And you and I can personally testify that the waiting is part of the retaliatory strike, because the Israelis are very, very nervous right now. The situation is extremely tense as we walk around and see what's going on. 
 
Clarissa, stand by. I want to go to Alex Marquardt, who's watching all of this. 
 
You're getting new information, Alex, on the effort to try to avoid this kind of very dangerous, brutal escalation. What has the Biden administration been doing? 
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Wolf, with every passing day, there's more and more forceful messaging from top Biden administration officials, a steady drumbeat of communication with Israel, with allies in the region to send this message that war is not inevitable and that things can be de- escalated. 
 
In just the past few days, we have seen President Joe Biden, Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, Secretary of State Antony Blinken reaching out to their counterparts in Israel, to Arab allies who communicate directly with Iran, Qatar, Egypt, Jordan, to send that message of de- escalation and to tell them that in this moment that they do not have to respond in a way that will essentially set the region fire. 
 <br>[11:05:09]
 
Here's a little bit of what Secretary Blinken had to say on Tuesday. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  In those conversations, we have heard a clear consensus. No one should escalate this conflict. 
 
We have been engaged in intense diplomacy with allies and partners, communicating that message directly to Iran. We communicated that message directly to Israel. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARQUARDT:  But, Wolf, even with that message that this is not inevitable, the general attitude here in Washington has been that this is a question not of if, but when. 
 
Of course, U.S. officials will be watching that meeting that you referenced in Jeddah today, where they're hoping that Arab foreign ministers will be able to put pressure on Iran not to respond in a major way. 
 
The question then becomes, if they do and if Hezbollah does, what does Israel do in response? Much of that will depend on what the targeting is, whether they go after civilian or military targets. That's why at the same time, Wolf, there is equal pressure on Israel, the U.S. telling Israel, yes, we will help defend you, but if and when there are these strikes, please don't hit back in a way that really ratchets things up -- Wolf. 
 
BLITZER:  Alex Marquardt and Clarissa Ward, to both of you, thanks very much. We're going to stay on top of this story. Obviously, the stakes are enormous. 
 
Back in the United States, meanwhile, both the Democratic and Republican tickets are taking their messages straight to the voters right now. It's an all-out swing state sprint with just, what, 90 days to go until Election Day in the United States. 
 
Kamala Harris, that are newly announced running mate, Tim Walz, are headed to the Midwest right now, stumping today in both Wisconsin and Michigan. As for the GOP, J.D. Vance is holding a campaign event in Michigan and will then head straight to Wisconsin later this afternoon. 
 
Democrats embraced the Minnesota governor in his debut last night in Philadelphia. We all watched it live right here on CNN. And while Harris is eager for voters to get to know Walz, Trump and his allies are already on the attack, painting the Democrat as -- quote -- "dangerously liberal." They're also slamming his response to the civil unrest following the murder of George Floyd back in Minnesota. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  If we remember the rioting in the summer of 2020, Tim Walz was the guy who let rioters burn down Minneapolis and then Kamala Harris was the one who bailed the rioters out of jail. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  All right, let's bring in Rondo Arradondo. He served as the Minneapolis police chief when George Floyd was killed. 
 
Chief, thanks so much for joining us. 
 
I want to go back to 2020. Do you feel you got the resources you needed from Governor Walz in the aftermath of George Floyd's death? 
 
MEDARIA ARRADONDO, FORMER MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA, POLICE CHIEF:  Good morning, Wolf. Thank you for having me. 
 
I try to remind people that what occurred back in Minneapolis in May of 2020 was absolutely unprecedented, Wolf. And so we were dealing with multiple threats. There was an absolute massive amount of civil unrest that the city and parts of our state were enduring. 
 
Governor Walz, when the request came out to get state patrol in -- excuse me -- to get the National Guard in, he responded. Were there issues in communication? Absolutely. Matter of fact, when you go through any sort of major crisis, one of the first things that's going to take an impact is communication. And that was all around the board, even including me. 
 
But I will tell you, Wolf, when Governor Walz brought the Minnesota National Guard in, they could not have performed more admirably, were just absolutely wonderful in their duties in helping our Minnesota law enforcement community to help keep our city and our state safe. 
 
BLITZER:  Chief, what would you say to those Republicans who are now attacking Governor Walz over how he handled the George Floyd unrest over there in Minneapolis? 
 
ARRADONDO:  Well, I would simply say if we can try as best we can, Wolf, to put politics aside, this was unprecedented. 
 
There was not a national playbook in terms of how to deal with this. This had ramifications across the globe. I will say, if there's a success to look at this, during that summer of 2020, we did not lose any peace officer in the line of duty death. 
 
And during that protracted engagement, law enforcement did not take the life of a community member. So I look at that, based on everything that occurred, that's a success under, again, extremely unpredictable, unprecedented situation. BLITZER:  As you know, several days after Floyd was killed, CNN's Sara
 
 Sidner, our colleague and correspondent, asked you a question live on TV on behalf of Floyd's family. 
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
This was the first direct communication that the Floyd family had with the police department. I want you and our viewers out there to listen to this exchange. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The Floyd family has asked if you are going to get justice for George Floyd. 
 
ARRADONDO:  To the Floyd family, I want you to know that my decision to fire all four officers was not based on some sort of hierarchy. 
 
Mr. Floyd died in our hands, and so I see that being as complicit. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  So, Chief, you want to reflect on that moment for us? 
 
ARRADONDO:  Wolf, yes, that was certainly -- it was a time that was -- certainly will be captured for me forever. 
 
Certainly, Mr. Floyd's death changed my life forever, certainly changed our city here and obviously, again, had reverberations around our country and around the globe. I was not expecting to meet Sara out there that day, but I tried to speak from the heart, and she asked the pointed question.
 
And I still feel that way to this day. And I just look back how much our country and the world would have been different had a death not occurred that evening of May 25, 2020. 
 
BLITZER:  Yes, so tragic, so sad, indeed. 
 
What was your reaction, Chief, your initial reaction, let me say, when you first heard that Governor Walz was being tapped as Kamala Harris' vice presidential running mate? 
 
ARRADONDO:  Wolf, I have had the opportunity to work with Governor Walz and certainly members of his Department of Public Safety.
 
The first time I think I actually was in a space with Governor Walz, we were both actually speaking at one of our -- Minneapolis' largest temples, synagogues related to antisemitism. And I saw him for the first time there speaking. He's very passionate. He cares about all Minnesotans.
 
He is a staunch, staunch defender of people's rights. And in public safety, we try to separate ourselves from the politics as much as we can. But from a personal level, I thought he was a man of good character, great character, cares about Minnesotans. And so I was happy to work with him. 
 
Wolf, when I retired from my role as chief, I made sure I went around personally to thank all of those individuals, agency heads who helped get me and our city through the civil unrest of 2020. Governor Walz was one of those individuals that I also thanked. 
 
BLITZER:  The former Minneapolis Police Chief Rondo Arradondo, thanks so much for joining us. And, of course, thanks so much for all your service over these years. 
 
CNN is getting new details this hour right now. We're watching Russia's Defense Ministry publishing this video of airstrikes after Moscow claims hundreds of Ukrainian fighters actually launched an attack in an obscure Russian border town. Why it could be an attempt to divert Russian resources elsewhere. A live report just ahead. 
 
Lots of news going on. We will be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:17:46]
 
BLITZER:  With their running mates now set, the Harris/Walz and Trump/Vance campaigns are in full swing.
 
Today, just 90 days from the election, an all-out battleground push across the country is beginning as the candidates take their message directly to swing state voters.
 
Last night, America got a preview of how Minnesota Governor Tim Walz will go on offense against his vice presidential rival. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN), VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Like all regular people I grew up with in the heartland, J.D. studied at Yale...
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
T. WALZ:  ... had his career funded by Silicon Valley billionaires, and then wrote a bestseller trashing that community. Come on! 
 
That's not what middle America is. And I have got to tell you, I can't wait to debate the guy, that is, if he's willing to get off the couch and show up. These guys are creepy, and yes, just weird as hell. That's what you see. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  All right, let's discuss what's going on with CNN political analyst and White House correspondent over at "The New York Times" Zolan Kanno-Youngs, CNN political commentator Bakari Sellers and former senior adviser to Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, Jason Osborne.
 
Bakari, let me start with you. 
 
You're close to the Harris campaign and said yesterday that Governor Walz is likely, in your words, to do no harm to the ticket, but is he the right pick, the best pick to get Harris to 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency? 
 
BAKARI SELLERS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Wolf, the answer is resoundingly yes. 
 
And let me tell you why. A lot of people think that, when you go to places like Pennsylvania, that you just have to campaign in Philadelphia or Pittsburgh, when you go to Wisconsin, you have the campaign in Milwaukee, or when you go to Michigan, you just have to campaign in Detroit. 
 
One of the things that Governor Walz is going to be able to do is go to all of those cities outside of those major cities. He's going to talk to every working man and have some type of relatability to them. 
 
It's almost refreshing to see someone who just simply cares about people in an authentic way. I was looking at Governor Walz's financial disclosures, Wolf. And one of the things that stood out is that this man literally owns no stocks, no bonds. He doesn't have money in the market like that. 
 <br>[11:20:02]
 
And it's just a -- this -- he's a hunter. He's a fisher. And one of the things -- a fisherman. And one of the things that Kamala Harris is going to have to do is be able to go into these exurbs, be able to go into the rural parts of America and have someone who can speak for her, meet people where they are. 
 
And Governor Walz is able to do that. The last thing I will say is that, regardless of the caricatures of the right, you're not going to be able to pull Governor Walz to the left or to the right. Governor Walz is right down the middle of America, where most Americans are. 
 
BLITZER:  Let me follow up with you, Zolan. 
 
The Harris campaign is pitching Tim Walz as the Midwestern nice dad who can win back working-class voters. Is that enough for Harris to defend the Midwest so-called blue wall? 
 
ZOLAN KANNO-YOUNGS, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  Yes, that's what they're pitching him as. 
 
I mean, look, this pick came after focus groups were enlisted, multiple staff meetings preparing the vice president with each of the finalists, which included folks like Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Governor Andy Beshear as well, obviously Josh Shapiro as well, governor of Pennsylvania. 
 
But what stood out for Tim Walz was not only sort of his Midwest dad vibes, which is what you keep hearing from the Harris campaign, but also sort of his policy background as governor as well. I mean, the child tax credit is something that the Harris campaign has said that -- or people familiar with the matter with the Harris campaign have said that they want to sort of emulate, in their term, codifying Roe v. Wade on the state level too. 
 
So it was the policy background mixed with sort of an instant connection that they made. And let's be clear. They really didn't have that much of an extensive history working together. They did appear in an abortion clinic once, but it really was in these recent meetings that that sort of connection was established. 
 
But, to your point, now comes the question of whether or not this partnership can sort of energize Midwestern voters, rural voters and independent voters as well. Right now, there's been sort of an injection of energy into the campaign. That rally yesterday with 14,000 people roughly. I mean, it was a sign of just the newfound energy. 
 
We didn't see rallies like that previously with President Biden at the top of the ticket. But now are you going to be able to translate that energy across the country, not just in cities, but also sort of in rural communities? That's what the Harris campaign is betting on. 
 
BLITZER:  Yes, these Democrats have clearly been energized with this ticket. They're going forward with a lot of excitement. 
 
Jason, I want to play a clip for you that's going viral on social media of Governor Walz at the Minnesota State Fair. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOPE WALZ, DAUGHTER OF TIM WALZ:  I think we're going to go do the slingshot. 
 
T. WALZ:  Which I don't know what it is, and they're keeping it from me. 
 
Then we're going to go get some food. Corn dog?
 
H. WALZ:  I'm vegetarian. 
 
T. WALZ:  Turkey then.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
H. WALZ:  Turkey's meat.
 
T. WALZ:  Not in Minnesota. Turkey's special. And we will go do some of those things and report back. 
 
(SCREAMING)
 
H. WALZ:  Oh, my God. Oh, my God! 
 
T. WALZ:  Woo! (LAUGHTER)
 
H. WALZ:  Oh, my God.
 
T. WALZ:  Yes!
 
H. WALZ:  Oh, my God.
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  Jason, as you know, the Trump campaign is casting Governor Walz as a -- quote -- "dangerously liberal West Coast wannabe." 
 
Is that going to resonate, you think, with voters? 
 
JASON OSBORNE, FORMER SENIOR ADVISER, TRUMP 2016 CAMPAIGN:  You know, listen, I -- first off, let me, Wolf, I hope you stay safe over there.
 
And, Bakari, I'm glad to see that you're safe in South Carolina, even with that great white suit on. 
 
Look, I'm -- I personally know Tim Walz. I think he is a great guy. I think he's somebody that I have had some pretty good conversations with. His policies just aren't for me, right? And I don't think they are for -- to Bakari's point, to outside Philadelphia or outside Pittsburgh. 
 
I hope -- and I know that it's not going to happen, but I hope we get away from kind of these personal attacks and really kind of focus on the policies. I mean, you can be a great person, but just have bad policies for rural America and Midwest America. 
 
But, again, unfortunately, I don't think we're going to get away from that. So I do think this was a great pick. I'm a huge fan of governors. I would have liked to have seen some governors on the R side as part of the mix, maybe Brian Kemp or Ron DeSantis. 
 
But now we're dealing with a full ticket on both sides. So we will see what happens. 
 
BLITZER:  We shall see in 90 days. 
 
Bakari, Governor Walz drilled down on reproductive freedoms last night. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
T. WALZ:  Some of us are old enough to remember when it was Republicans who were talking about freedom. It turns out now what they meant was the government should be free to invade your doctor's office. 
 <br>[11:25:07]
 
(BOOING)
 
T. WALZ:  In Minnesota, we respect our neighbors and their personal choices that they make. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
T. WALZ:  Even if we wouldn't make the same choice for ourselves, there is a golden rule:  Mind your own damn business. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  So, Bakari, how should Democrats successfully frame or message this issue in the Midwest? 
 
SELLERS:  I think he did a great job of it, and let me tell you why, because it showed men that there is a role for us to play in the debate over reproductive rights. 
 
Respectfully to the three of you all who were on this panel with me, as a father and as a husband, I really don't want any of you all. I don't want Wolf, I don't want Jason, I don't want Zolan, I don't want any of you all making the choices for my wife or my daughter about what she does with her body. 
 
That is between me, her, our doctor, our God. Those are our personal choices. And so he framed that debate as such. And I think it's very powerful, because what it does is, it gets men off the sidelines when it comes to the issue of reproductive rights. 
 
And so I haven't heard put it so succinctly like that in a campaign rally. But this is going to be the issue that mobilizes people. And one of the things that terrifies Republicans is that, on one hand, you have Donald Trump, who takes credit for putting the three justices on the Supreme Court that overturned Roe v. Wade. That's on one hand. 
 
But then, on the other hand, you see that this is such a powerful issue that it mobilizes voters in both places like Kansas and Ohio. And so this isn't something that is this blue Massachusetts- California-type issue. This is an everyday issue. And when he says mind your business, for a lot of men, it speaks to us in a way that, hey, Governor Walz may be right about this issue called reproductive rights. 
 
BLITZER:  All right, Bakari, Jason and Zolan, to all of you, thank you very much for joining us. 
 
Coming up:  The Middle East, where I am right now, is on edge, as sources say the U.S. sees Iran preparing for a strike on Israel. We will discuss the diplomatic efforts under way right now to try to avoid a much wider-scale war in the region that potentially could include the United States. 
 
That's coming up next. A special edition of NEWSROOM live from Tel Aviv will continue right after a break. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)