Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Intelligence Warned Trump Campaign; Tim Taylor is Interviewed about the Titan Implosion; William Snyder is Interviewed about the Assassination Attempt; "Shogun" Makes History. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired September 16, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:33:27]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, new this morning, sources tell CNN that U.S. intelligence officials had warned the Trump campaign about signs pointing to Iran planning to escalate its attacks on Trump and those around him. And that information was passed along before yesterday's apparent assassination attempt. 
 
Let's get right to CNN's Zach Cohen for an explanation on all this. Zach.
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yes, John, we're learning from our sources that senior intelligence officials provided a recent briefing to the Trump campaign and raised what appears to be credible evidence that they believe shows that Iran is planning to escalate its attacks against Donald Trump. 
 
And as you mentioned, this briefing did take place before yesterday's incident at Trump's golf course. And, you know, I want to be very clear that there is no evidence at this time that the briefing and the intelligence related to Iran is linked to what happened at Trump's golf course yesterday, but it does give us a better sense of the bigger threat picture here and the elevated threat picture as it relates to Donald Trump and the various threats that he faces, both foreign and domestic. 
 
You may remember, John, that before Trump's Butler rally, the July 13th Butler rally, we also reported that there was similar intelligence that was brought forward about a plot to assassinate Trump. There has since been an arrest in that case. But intelligence officials making clear to the Trump campaign that the threat from Iran not only persists but is more elevated than it was previously. And that just really does call into question again the Secret Service's ability to protect Donald Trump and the amount of protection provided to him, both at rallies and in places like his golf course. Can they secure that perimeter from - you know, given the fact that two people now in two months have gotten so close to the former president. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
This also comes as Iran - U.S. intelligence officials are warning that Iran is trying to undermine Donald Trump's campaign using cyber - various cyber operations. And this was something that also was raised in that recent briefing we're told by our sources. These cyber operations are intended, U.S. officials say, to undermine Trump's candidacy for president in 2024. So Iran really taking a holistic approach as it targets and continues to plan new ways to target Donald Trump with the 2024 election looming just about 50 days from now.
 
BERMAN: All right, Zach Cohen, thanks so much. Keep us posted on all this.  
 
Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right, and in just a bit, we're going to hear from the West Palm County Beach sheriff to talk to us about some of the new details that he can share about what happened in the assassination attempt there in his part of Florida. 
 
And we're also hearing new details in the Titan submersible tragedy. Remember that? That is now underway. What we expect to learn about that deadly implosion. That's ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:31]
 
SIDNER: Happening now, the U.S. Coast Guard has started a two-week hearing into last year's Titan submersible tragedy. It happened while it was enroute, you remember, to the Titanic wreck. Five people on board lost their lives. Investigators are trying to determine if there was any negligence or misconduct by Oceangate, the company responsible for that submersible.
 
Joining me now is Tim Taylor, underwater explorer and CEO at Tiburon Subsea. 
 
I am well familiar with Tiburon. It is a beautiful place. But this was a terrible tragedy. Of course, the people on the submersible knew that there were always going to be risks. But what questions do you think should be asked in this hearing about this tragedy and how it can be - could be prevented in the future?
 
TIM TAYLOR, CEO, TIBURON SUBSEA: Well, I always - this industry has been regulating itself and extremely safe for five decades. I think that this is more of a consumer protections situation. When you get on a ferry or if you get on a passenger vessel, they are all inspected. They're all from - the materials they're built with, to the construction, to the passengers on board certified to take care of and operate these things, they are all inspected in regulated. And that is to protect you, the consumer, when you walk on. Even the subways in Manhattan, you get on the subway in Manhattan, it's regulated. So you know and you can travel safely. 
 
It - I would - if I was doing this, I would be asking, who knew when these passengers actually knew that this wasn't a certified vessel that this was not regulated, that it wasn't inspected. And there - it's not just one person who lied on this. It's the whole chain of command. Who's asking the questions. Who's - who's trying to keep them honest. And if they did do that, what happened with the - how - how - how come it didn't come to light. And that's the kind of questions I'd be asking in this - this - this (INAUDIBLE) - this situation.
 
SIDNER: How did they sort of navigate around the existing regulations?
 
TAYLOR: I can speculate, but they - they would - it appears to me they would - an example. They were towing the system out and ferrying people over to get on it out to sea. And they sold that to consumers as we're more efficient, we're cutting the costs of exploration. 
 
But what they're actually doing is no one would allow them to launch a submarine that isn't rated off of - off of those ships. So, no ship, no, no, no support vessel would support them because you cannot crane a submarine off their decks. They would lose their licenses. So, they put it on a barge and towed it behind it. So, they're selling a - they're selling a work around as a feature and a benefit, which, I guess, if - if you're the marketing and sales team, that's good. But if you're the safety and inspection protocol team, that's really not a good idea. 
 
And that's what I look forward to this hearing to get to those decisions. We know that the technology failed. We know that they were told it was going to fail. But who looked the other way?
 
SIDNER: I think that you have frozen there, Tim Taylor, but I do thank you for sort of walking us through that because this was one of those tragedies that, you know, could have been prevented perhaps. And we will see if new regulations come out of this hearing that we get from the Coast Guard today. 
 
I appreciate your time and your expertise for us this morning.
 
TAYLOR: All right. 
 
Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, so soon this morning we expect to see the suspect in the apparent assassination attempt on Donald Trump in his first court appearance. It's unclear what charges he will face. But we're expected to learn more about that today. 
 
Ryan Wesley Routh, who was taken into custody following the shooting incident with Secret Service Sunday. He was stopped - you see a picture there - stopped on the highway in nearby Martin County.
 
Joining us right now is Martin County, Florida, Sheriff William Snyder.
 
Sheriff, thank you very much for coming on.
 
How did you catch, stop him, and take this man into custody? 
 
SHERIFF WILLIAM SNYDER, MARTIN COUNTY, FLORIDA: Good morning to you. 
 
Well, what happened is this. After the attempted assassination of President Trump, we received a BOLO, a be on the lookout, from the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. 
 <br>[09:45:02]
 
We had a vehicle description and a tag. We immediately deployed to the interstate. We are the border county to Palm Beach County. And so, we put all our resources up on the interstate, helicopter, everything we had. And, fortunately, one of my road patrol deputies saw the vehicle, followed it for a couple miles, waited till - we call them pinch vehicles, big trucks with heavy - heavy front end bumpers, and we forced the vehicle to a stop in I-95, conducted a felony stop, brought him out of the vehicle, and - and safely apprehended.
 
BOLDUAN: Can you describe for me his demeanor, how he acted when he was picked up? I heard you call it perplexing this morning. 
 
SNYDER: Yes, I was there at - right after the stop. And it was perplexing. You know, somebody who actually at the time we weren't positive that we had the suspect. We had the vehicle. We thought we had him. But his facial affect (ph) was so flat. His demeanor was relaxed. I - I honestly thought it looked like somebody that just left the church picnic and was on his way home. And - and the interstate was crawling with law enforcement. We had, you know, the SWAT team had gotten out their rifles, helicopter, I-95 shut down. A bomb dog. Everything was there. And he was just calm as - as really as if he was going for dinner (ph).
 
BOLDUAN: Well, all that we have heard so far in the reporting is that he is not talking to investigators. Did he say anything at all during any of these interactions when you picked him up? 
 
SNYDER: No, it really was the oddest part of it. He never asked a question, like, why are you stopping me? What's going on? You know, we're used to stopping people on I-95 all the time. We're - we're known as the wrong exit county. Don't commit a crime and go through Martin. And I would've expected him to say, what's this about? I didn't do anything. You guys or whatever. Not a thing. He was just - just calm and good to go with it. 
 
BOLDUAN: Anything in the car, about the car, that was noteworthy that you can tell us about?
 
SNYDER: Yes, I think what was noteworthy about the car was how not noteworthy it was. You know, it's just the ideal car to slip through traffic. I-5, heavily traveled. It was really God's blessing, I think, first of all, that President Trump wasn't hit and, second of all, that we were able to find him as fast as we did. And, you know, prevent anxiety I would think for the Trump family, a killer on the loose. It was - it was a - it was good all around.
 
BOLDUAN: What questions - this is a federal investigation now. Your job was to pick this guy up, pick up a suspect, and turn him over to the FBI so that they can - they can take on the investigation now.
 
What are your questions, Sheriff, about all of this as this investigation now continues? SNYDER: I think the first question, obviously, that they'll want is,
 
 is this a conspiracy? Did this guy act alone? Is he a lone wolf? Possible. Or was he sent by some group to get the president of the United States? I mean, I understand there was a rifle. There was optics on the rifle. That's pretty serious. That - that wasn't somebody who just woke up and thought, well, let me see what I'm doing. 
 
We understand he's not from the area. So, are we tracking with a conspiracy? That's the question that I think has to be answer because if it is a conspiracy, there are other people out there that we have to keep - that we have to get to.
 
BOLDUAN: Martin County Sheriff William Snyder, your team - you guys did your job yesterday. Thank you so much for coming on. 
 
John.
 
SNYDER: Thank you.
 
BERMAN: All right, "Shogun." Opps, I jumped the gun there. "Shogun" dominates. The bear gets hacked. And the best and most shocking moments from the Emmy Awards. Some celebrities getting political on stage.
 
"Shogun."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And - and let me say what an honor it is to work with two guys who are this far away from being childless cat ladies.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:53:20]
 
BERMAN: So, one of the biggest winners ever at the Emmys, "Shogun," taking home a record 18 of them, becoming the first non-English language show to win for best drama. And there was a big surprise for best comedy. Surprise and deserving. And a comedy. 
 
CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister, live in Los Angeles, to decode the messaging there. 
 
Big night.
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT: Big night, John. And I am decoding your messaging. The big shock of the night was that "Hacks" won for the best comedy series. I was in the room, and let me tell you, there was a huge gasp, but a gasp of delight. People were really excited that "Hacks" won. But "The Bear" was expected to win. And where I say I'm decoding your messaging, John, is a lot of people poked fun at "The Bear." They love it, but they say it's not a comedy. Even the host last night, Eugene and Dan Levy (ph), joked that there are no jokes in "The Bear." But don't feel bad for "The Bear" because they won huge, even though they didn't win that final award of the night. "The Bear" won 11 awards, becoming the record setter for the most comedy wins in a single year. 
 
Now, as you said, John, "Shogun" winning 18, breaking all sorts of records there. And historic records for diversity with the best actress win becoming the first Asian performer to ever win in that category. When we go to the limited categories, "Baby Reindeer" won all the major awards there. 
 
BERMAN: I mean "The Bear" is awesome, but it's like not just drama, it's high, stressful drama. And "Hacks" has jokes, which makes it a comedy.
 
WAGMEISTER: Yes.
 
BERMAN: There were some political - there were some political moments at the ceremony yesterday. 
 <br>[09:55:03]
 
WAGMEISTER: There were. And like you, John, I stress watch "The Bear" and I love it, but I stress watch it.
 
Now, when it comes to political moments, you know, Selena Gomez was one of the first presenters last night with her co-stars, Martin Short and Steve Martin from "Only Murders in the Building." She made a childless cat lady jab, but it didn't end there. Candice Bergen took the stage to present, and she can stay this way better than me, so let's just take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CANDICE BERGEN, ACTRESS: And in one classic moment, my character was attacked by Vice President Dan Quayle when Murphy became pregnant and decided to raise the baby as a single mother. Oh how far we've come. Today, a Republican candidate for vice president would never attack a woman for having kids. So, as they say, my work here is done. Meow.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WAGMEISTER: The meow heard around the world, John.
 
You know that saying, everything that's old is new again. I think that's what Cadice was getting to there. That joke got huge reaction in the room. 
 
BERMAN: A lot of talent. A lot of talent in that room. Candice Bergen, most among them.
 
Elizabeth Wagmeister, thank you very much for that. 
 
SIDNER: And thank you for joining us. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. John Berman, Kate Bolduan and Sara Sidner, me. 
 
"CNN NEWSROOM" up next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)