Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Security Guard Killed, Seven Injured After Gunfire Erupts At Florida Bar; Israel Set To Reopen Erez Crossing To Allow Crucial Aid Into Gaza; New Calculations Raise Concerns Popular Eclipse Maps Might Be Off; Wonya Lucas, Niece Of Hank Aaron, Discusses Atlanta Celebrating 50th Anniversary of Aaron's 715th Home Run & Aaron's Legacy On And Off The Field; Audio Recording Emerges In Lawsuit Against Diddy & Son; Police Search For Suspect In Fire At Sen. Bernie Sanders' Office. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired April 06, 2024 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:00:36]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: All right. Hello, again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield and we've got this breaking news.
 
A deadly shooting in Florida, police say a security guard at a Miami area bar was killed and seven others wounded, including a police officer after a fight between patrons erupted into gunfire early this morning.
 
CNN's Ryan Young is following the story. So, what do we know?
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Fred, this is a scary situation. You think about people going out to have a good time on a Friday night in the south Florida area.
 
Look, this area is just outside of Miami. It's called Doral. From what we know there was an argument at this bar. Just after 2:45, a security guard goes to step in. And apparently, according to police, a patron produced a firearm, shooting and killing that security guard.
 
At that point police stepped in to try to stop the man gunshots were fired back and forth between that person and the two officers -- one officer was actually hit. Six other people were hit. So, we have nine total people shot. That suspect shot and killed the security guard -- shot and kill.
 
Listen to the police chief talk about this chaotic situation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EDWIN LOPEZ, POLICE CHIEF, DORAL, FLORIDA: During the process, the officer -- two officer discharge of firearms. One of the officers, the one who was struck with four years of service, applied a tourniquet on himself immediately after being struck. Even after he discharged his firearm. The extensive training that our police officers on the go is a testament to why that officer is alive today.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG: Yes, that's an important point. Of course, a lot of us who have gone through that kind of training before learned about how a tourniquet can save your life if you're shot.
 
Not sure if the crossfire is why some of those innocent people were hit. But you got to think to other people are now in critical condition. Doral is known as a really safe place. You know, I grew up in South Florida, it's one of those places where you can go out and have a good time.
 
But this Martini Bar, apparently that argument started, the guy pulled the gun, killing that security guard. This point, no names have been released, don't know the suspect's background. We're still digging into this, but had to be a scary situation.
 
WHITFIELD: Right.
 
YOUNG: Think about those police responding very quickly, probably stopping other people from getting hurt as well.
 
WHITFIELD: I mean, there is no good explanation -- you know, for why something like this would erupt after an argument. But do we know anything about what in the world with the argument about?
 
YOUNG: And that is the tough thing at this point, with the information is still sort of coming out -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
YOUNG: -- in small dribbles and drabs. But we just know that officer seems like he's going to survive.
 
WHITFIELD: That's great.
 
YOUNG: At this point, you got to figure out what the motive was in terms of that initial argument.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
YOUNG: But still, to pull a gun and to get into that crossfire just seems sickening.
 
WHITFIELD: Absolutely pointless. All right. Thank you so much. Keep us posted as you learn any more information.
 
YOUNG: I will.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Now, to the Middle East, where the U.S. is on high alert and actively preparing for a significant attack by Iran, possibly on U.S. and Israeli targets as soon as next week. That's according to a senior Biden administration official. Iran blames Israel for an airstrike in Syria this week that killed, at least, seven Iranian officials, including two top military commanders. And we're also following an important development in humanitarian crisis in Gaza.
 
Israel is preparing to reopen the Erez crossing in northern Gaza, at least temporarily to bring in aid. That move follows a call between President Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu this week. The backdrop to all of this, tomorrow, marks six months since the Hamas attack on Israel sparked the war in Gaza.
 
Priscilla Alvarez is in Washington for us and Nic Robertson is in Jerusalem.
 
Priscilla, you first how is the U.S. preparing for this potential attack?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, the U.S. is certainly on high alert for a potential attack by Iran. And what officials believed to be an inevitable attack. Now, they suspect that this would be targeting U.S. and Israeli assets in the region.
 
Now, this could be as soon as next week, though, it's unclear when or how this would happen. The two governments in close touch, but also trying to get ahead of it and be in position for the potential of this happening.
 
Now, it could unfold in multiple ways. Again, still a lot unclear into what this attack would look like. It stems of course, from that Israeli airstrike on an Iran embassy in Damascus.
 
Now, the IDF said that intelligence showed that this was not indeed a consulate, but this was a significant escalation, and I ran vowed to revenge, and there was an exchange to with the U.S.
 <br>[13:05:05]
 
And U.S. officials said that they did not know of the airstrike ahead of time. They were not involved. So, trying to make clear here, where the U.S. wasn't all of this? But, of course, U.S. and Israel in close touch for this potential attack that was also a major topic of discussion between President Biden and the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu earlier this week when they had that phone call.
 
Now, of course, the worst-case scenario here, according to officials would be a direct strike to -- on by Iran, on Israel. So, this is all what officials are watching, because of course, the fear here is that it could really pool in the U.S. and other countries into a regional conflict. That is something that the White House has tried to avoid.
 
So, U.S. officials watching this very, very closely, as well as Israeli officials. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thanks so much. Priscilla Alvarez.
 
Let's turn now to Nic Robertson in Jerusalem. Nic, the Erez crossing into Gaza is expected to open tomorrow to bring in much needed aid. Do we know for how long it will be open? How much aid could possibly get in?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: We don't. We know it's going to be under intense scrutiny by the White House and by others, because President Biden has put a lot of pressure on Prime Minister Netanyahu to allow aid into northern Gaza.
 
Aid gets into the south of Gaza at the moment, but it's the people in the North who were cut off essentially by a military line that the IDF has in the center of Gaza.
 
So, the people that were displaced from the north, find it hard to get back to the north, aid, typically, very little of it gets through to the north.
 
So, opening this aid, border crossing in the north, at the Erez crossing, is hugely important, Is hugely significant. The expectation initially given to us by Israeli government officials was that it would open Sunday. We were there today, while it's close to the crossing, because it's still a closed military area.
 
We couldn't get direct access. We couldn't see any level of big preparation. We know the IDF met with World Food Program officials at the border crossing on Friday.
 
Typically, though, this border crossing was used for foot passengers. So, workers coming out of Gaza to go work in Israel, of course, that will shut down after Hamas's attack, October 7th. They destroyed a lot of the passenger terminal.
 
It is possible to move freight through there. But typically, that is not what it was used for. And as to how much aid will go in. That's unclear. But I think the expectation from the Biden administration is that this commitment from Israel will be an ongoing commitment, because the need in the north of Gaza is an ongoing need, where the U.N. says people are close to starvation.
 
A couple of things are going to make it difficult inside of Gaza, should the trucks pass through the Erez crossing, we had a lot of gunfire around there, sustained heavy machine gunfire explosions.
 
So, there is a conflict. Still, despite the fact the IDF has been over that border in the north of Gaza. Now, for almost six months, they are still fighting, clearly, close to the border. Many of the roads are blown up. So, how will the trucks be able to progressed.
 
Remember, in the North, was the major battle zone for the first part of the war in Gaza. So, that's very heavily destroyed. And then of course, there is a possibility of protests. Right-wing members of Prime Minister Netanyahu government say that the border shouldn't be open, the crossing shouldn't open, because the only way to put pressure on Hamas to get the hostages freed is to stop the humanitarian aid getting in.
 
And we've seen supporters of those right-wing members of the government protesting at the border crossings previously, and stopping the aid getting through.
 
So, all of these are the unknowns. But the expectation from the White House would be for sustained progress of aid. Substantial sustained.
 
WHITFIELD: Nic Robertson, we'll leave it there for now. Thanks so much.
 
All right. Let's talk further now with me now, from Jerusalem, also is Gershon Baskin. He is a former hostage negotiator and Middle East director for the international community's organization. Good to see you.
 
So, before I ask you, you know, what your thoughts are on the hostage negotiations, I do want to ask you, if you believe that the killing of the aid workers with the World Central Kitchen, and the increasing tensions with Iran, if that is further complicating things right now.
 
GERSHON BASKIN, FORMER HOSTAGE NEGOTIATOR: For sure, the killing of the aid workers from in -- by the Israelis was a tragic event. It should have never happened. It has caused many of the aid organizations working in Gaza to sustain to, you know, suspend their activities. This is also a really horrible because even if the trucks get into the Erez crossing, and through the other crossings that are open, the distribution network for the aid getting to the people who need it is less than what it needs to be.
 <br>[13:10:03]
 
With the war going on with, fighting still going on between Israel and Hamas, it will -- it will be very difficult, and that needs to be taken care of. And this leads us right into the whole hostage situation, because there won't be any return of hostages without a ceasefire. That has to be high on the agenda of the talks that are going to begin tomorrow, again, in Cairo.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, listen to what Leon Panetta, the former U.S. Defense Secretary and former CIA director told CNN's Jim Sciutto about, the World Central Kitchen, seven people who were killed. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEON PANETTA, FORMER UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: Sometimes, right? If you're going to do it, and you want to make sure that you're hitting the right target, you have to be able to verify, to take time, to make sure that the information that you're getting as accurate with regards to targets.
 
And I have to tell you that in the past, at least, in my experience, the Israelis usually fire and then ask questions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: So, how problematic is it for the IDF? I mean, they had their own investigation, you know, they revealed that they, you know, mistakes were made. But does that suffice? BASKIN: No, and the investigation by the IDF is not finished, and everyone is waiting for the official report to come out. It wasn't just one single shooting that took place. But it was three cars were shot by drones in a distance of more than two kilometers apart from each other.
 
So, there was a real in absence of judgement on the ground. Apparently, the convoy had some people with weapons in them, but the convoy was its movement was coordinated with the IDF, and this should have never happened.
 
It's definitely the fault of the commanders on the ground. But it's the general attitude in Israel, with so many civilian casualties over the last six months, that the finger on the trigger, seems to be much too light.
 
WHITFIELD: And now, let's talk about the on and off again, hostage negotiations. You know, Hamas delegation is expected to arrive in Cairo for talks tomorrow over the release of the hostages and a ceasefire in Gaza.
 
Do you -- are you hopeful at all?
 
BASKIN: We always have to be hopeful. It's still not clear if the head of the Mossad, who will be leading the Israeli team has gotten an expanded mandate from Prime Minister Netanyahu. And it's questionable whether or not the two point-man here, Netanyahu and Yahya Sinwar in Hamas are really interested in having an agreement.
 
What is clear is that the pressure is building up in the public, six months into the war. Today, the body of a hostage who was taken alive into Gaza, was brought back into Israel by the IDF found in the communist area. This is tragic, which means that there are now 133 hostages still in Gaza. We don't know how many of them are alive.
 
I would say that the best tactic for the Israelis that needs to be undertaken here is not a partial deal, to bring back 30 and 40 of the hostages. We need to have a deal that's going to bring back all the hostages. And that's going to require an end to the war and Israeli withdrawal from Gaza.
 
And there has to be the political day after plan which the prime minister refuses to deal with.
 
That's unnecessary events that has to take place in order for us to know who were turning the keys over to in Gaza. And hopefully, it won't be Hamas.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, we've seen protests in Israel against Netanyahu and calls for him to step down.
 
How does that either further disrupt any kind of progress? Or, in any way, does it assist?
 
BASKIN: Well, Netanyahu refuses to listen to the public who's demanding new elections. There is an argument within the public of whether a new election should be immediate, or whether or not we need to wait until the end of the war. But a clear majority of Israelis want this government to pay the price for its failures, for its failure to protect the Israeli citizens on October 7th, and for the failure to manage this war in a proper way.
 
Who could have imagined that we'd be six months into the war. And we're not nearly toward achieving the goals stated by the government of dismantling Hamas and bringing the hostages' home.
 
So, this government needs to go. The war can stop and should stop. We need a diplomatic end to this war. There is no military solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We all know that.
 
It's time for the Americans who are beginning to put real pressure on Israel to also come out and recognize the state of Palestine. So, we can begin to make the two-state solution that President Biden talks about so much to make it real.
 
WHITFIELD: You are coming to us from Jerusalem. We're looking at live pictures right now of the protests that we're talking about that continue to happen seemingly around the clock, this from Tel Aviv, Israel.
 <br>[13:15:03]
 
Gershon Baskin, glad you could be with us. Thank you so much.
 
BASKIN: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still to come, millions of Americans are in the path of a historic total solar eclipse. How can you prepare to enjoy this celestial phenomenon? We'll discuss with the NASA scientist next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:20:10]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Get ready for the big show or not. Because there are new concerns about the solar eclipses path of totality. New map calculations appear to be slightly more narrow from NASA's projections. Meaning, those on the edge of the route that we're expecting to experience, a few seconds of total darkness might be left out.
 
Joining us right now is Michael Kirk. He is a research scientist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. Great to see you. So, just to be clear, NASA has not changed its predictions, but it is now advising that there is some uncertainty involved in mapping the eclipse's path. So, how do folks digest all of this?
 
MICHAEL KIRK, RESEARCH SCIENTIST, NASA'S GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER: Yes. I mean, that -- that's a fantastic question, and a good concern from everybody across the country that are so excited for this eclipse. I am here in Dallas, Texas, and I was just up in the town of Denton yesterday, right -- they were right on the edge, they had similar concerns. So, I hear them. So, the uncertainty in the size of the Sun is actually bigger than you might expect, you know, it's big and bright in, in our sky every day. But the actual size measuring it is sort of like measuring a cloud. Out near the edge of the cloud, it's hard to tell what's exactly cloud and what's clear sky anymore.
 
Similarly, with the sun, measuring that edge of the Sun is actually has a little bit uncertainty in it.
 
In addition, the rotation of the Earth has, as well. And so, both the time and the size of the Sun both come together to give us a little uncertainty in the path itself.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, and -- how are scientists, I mean, maybe not certain, but pretty close to certain in order to calculate this, you know, path near precisely?
 
KIRK: Yes. So, it takes a tremendous amount of geometry and mathematics to get those measurements exactly right. And we do the best job we can in NASA. We have a fleet of satellites, and we're using Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter data that map the surface of the moon, to get those measurements exactly right.
 
But there is a little bit of uncertainty, especially with locality. So, if you are near the path, edge of the path of totality, I'd highly recommend taking a little bit of a trip deeper into the path of totality, even by just half a mile can make a huge difference right at that edge.
 
So, what are your plans? Because you are in that path of totality in Texas, but at the same time, you've got this inclement weather that might be expected. So, are you making a move? Or you just you know, rolling the dice, what are you doing?
 
KIRK: We are set up here at the Dallas Arboretum, and we're going to have a party here, regardless of the weather. So, we have activities for families to do. We have ways for people to understand NASA science. They can come out here, astronauts speak. We're going to have a great celebration here regardless.
 
So, I'm going to be here on the ground, we have our fingers crossed, we're saying our prayers, we're hoping for clear skies. But you're right, it's a bit marginal here.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh. So, as a heliophysics, a scientist, I mean, give me a little bit more detail about how you are going to be sharing some ideas with people on how they can enjoy that -- enjoy what may or may not be a citing.
 
KIRK: Yes. So, this is a tremendous opportunity for people to understand the relationship with their closest star a little bit better. So, heliophysics is a complicated word. So, as Tyrannosaurus rex, and 5-year-olds know Tyrannosaurus rex. We are hoping everybody knows the word heliophysics coming out of this.
 
(CROSSTALK) WHITFIELD: Well, now -- 
 
KIRK: But heliophysics, science, everything that the sun touches. So, everything the sun touches is part of that heliophysics science. So, we're hoping people can take a moment to enjoy the solar eclipse, ask a few questions and maybe get a little bit curious on what that coronal structure is that outer atmosphere of the sun that they can see during total solar eclipse?
 
And I don't know maybe it just get a little curious on how the Sun- Earth react relationship works. And so, that's what we're trying to do is give people a little bit more information about their closest star and enjoy it a little bit.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, are you enamored or even excited that so many people -- millions of people are trying to make plans because they want to be a part of this?
 
KIRK: I am thrilled with it. It's one of the few times ever, that people are thinking about the sun actively. And I have spent the last, oh, I don't know 12 about the sun constantly. So, everybody else, welcome to the club. I'm thinking about the sun often. So, we are excited to have people asking questions. We are -- we are talking with teachers today. We were in classrooms yesterday. So, learners of all ages are -- the enthusiasm is palpable. And I am just loving that sort of excitement to learn more about the sun.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, that's so exciting. And it's even that much more exciting that so many young people are really into it.
 <br>[13:25:02]
 
All right, Michael Kirk -- 
 
KIRK: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
KIRK: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: Happy star gazing. Yes.
 
All right. Millions of people are expected to flock to Niagara Falls as well to view Monday's Eclipse. officials on the Ontario side of the falls have already declared a state of emergency in anticipation of the large crowds.
 
Guess who else is there on the New York side? Harry Enten. He has got -- what he's got? A sunglasses ready. I know you've got your solar eclipse -- oh, no, you've got your solar eclipse glasses ready? Oh, so cool you are, Harry.
 
So, what's going on? Are a lot of people already positioning themselves at least sharing their plans of what they are planning to do on Monday? HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Yes. I got my glasses on. I can look right up into the sun. I'm doing so right now. Making sure I'm keeping it safe.
 
We got NASA over to our right over there. We got the beautiful Niagara Falls behind us. And yes, there are plenty of people who are coming here. Preparations are already in place on this side of the border. No state of emergency. But, you know, they are making sure the National Guard's ready. They are making sure -- making sure the Coast Guard is ready as well.
 
There are extra porta potties out there in case people have to do their business. And there have been plenty of folks who have been coming as well.
 
In fact, we spoke to a couple that came all the way from England.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ENTEN: I guess the 2017 one was so impressive, you decided -- I got to get -- I got to -- I got to double dip.
 
MIKE MALLALIEU, TRAVELED FROM ENGLAND FOR ECLIPSE: Yes. But, it's eclipse's as well. Because I've got this one in 2026 is going over Spain. So, I've already got -- already got that lined up.
 
ENTEN: Oh, come on.
 
MALLALIEU: And then, there's one in 2027 also, done southern Spain, and 2028. There is one in Australia.
 
ENTEN: OK.
 
MALLALIEU: So, I've got it -- I've got them lined up.
 
ENTEN: So, I've heard of tornado chasers before. I've heard of hurricane chasers before. Apparently, we've discovered a new breed. And that is eclipse chasers.
 
MALLALIEU: Oh, yes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ENTEN: Oh, there you heard it, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
ENTEN: You had those folks who are eclipse chasers. I, myself, am now an eclipse chaser, as well. And we've spoken with a bunch of people who have come in just for this. Although, I will point out, Fred, there is not exactly a whole heck of a lot to do here.
 
Yesterday, you can show some video of me. I went on the Maid of the Mist, which is right down there in the Niagara River. And it was quite the scene. The weather yesterday was absolutely awful. Today, we have got the sun out, yesterday, it was awful. It was snowing. It was raining. It was freezing. Today, we're in the 50s. Yesterday, we were in the 30s. And I think, Fred that is the big question ahead of Monday. What will the forecast exactly be?
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. What it's going to be?
 
ENTEN: And at this particular point, what is it going to be right?
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
ENTEN: I put on my weatherman hat, went to weather camp. I've been looking at the model output statistic data. We're sort of in the partly sunny, the mostly cloudy range. But today, it was supposed to be mostly cloudy. And guess what? It's mostly sunny. So, you never know.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, it's going to be good, because what you went through yesterday already, that can't happen to you again. And your friends from the U.K. I mean, they were feeling right at home, because that's, you know, that blustery kind of weather, you see a lot of that in the U.K.
 
But we're going to hope that you get some sunshine.
 
ENTEN: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: I mean, in all form and fashion so that you can see a total eclipse happening from where you are, Niagara Falls. All right. Harry Enten, thank you so much for your cross for you.
 
Get your eclipse viewing glasses ready, everybody, because this is a rare opportunity, and it won't come around again for two decades, at least to your stateside.
 
Join CNN for special live coverage of the "ECLIPSE ACROSS AMERICA". It starts live Monday, April 8th, at 1:00 Eastern, or stream it on Max.
 
When we come right back, celebrating an iconic moment in sports history. How the city of Atlanta is remembering Hank Aaron's life and legacy, 50 years after breaking Babe Ruth's home run records.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:33:35]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: I know it's Hank and we're waiting. The outfield (INAUDIBLE) straight away. That's a high fly to the (INAUDIBLE).
 
(CHEERING)
 
ANNOUNCER: What a marvelous moment for baseball. What a marvelous moment for Atlanta and the state of Georgia. What a marvelous moment for the country and the world.
 
(CHEERING)
 
ANNOUNCER: A black man is given a standing ovation in the Deep South for breaking the record of all-time baseball idol.
 
(CHEERING)
 
ANNOUNCER: And it is a great moment for all of us and, particularly, for Henry Aaron.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. And what a moment it was. I mean, listen to the announcers there, too, as well. 
 
So that happened April 8, 1974, Hank Aaron becoming the all-time home run champion for Major League Baseball, breaking Babe Ruth's seemingly insurmountable record by smashing his 715th home run. 
 
While Monday marks 50 years since that iconic moment, it's not just about the total eclipse, but this totally big moment. And the city of Atlanta -- Atlanta is celebrating Hammering Hank's life and legacy both in the batter's box and beyond.
 
And joining us right now is Hank Aaron's niece, Wonya Lucas.
 
I mean, 50 years. And just to really to zero in, welcome home, because he used to be the SVP of marketing and research here at this company. So welcome home. 
 <br>[13:35:09]
 
But we are talking about your uncle. And to hear those words of the announcers to say -- his amazement was this black man, you know, people are on their feet celebrating this black man and this moment in history. 
 
What's it like to hear that and see that? 
 
WONYA LUCAS, NIECE OF HANK AARON: I mean, it brings bad vivid memories, you know? It makes me super proud, quite honestly, because he pursued the record and we were all sort of -- we had a front row seat to it but to see him actually accomplish it. 
 
I have to tell you, we were not -- his kids and I were not in the stadium that day. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
LUCAS: Our great grandfather passed away, so we were in Jacksonville watching it on this tiny little black and white television. And literally, his youngest daughter, Torenda (ph) and I re-enact our -- this moment all the time. We were holding each other's hands. We were jumping up and down a bit -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh. Oh, that's so beautiful. 
 
What did you call him, uncle? 
 
LUCAS: Hank. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, OK. That's very sweet. 
 
And I mean, there's going to be a lot of tributes for Hammering Hank on this 50th anniversary here in Atlanta. 
 
"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution" will have a big tribute in the paper. There will be kind of giveaway bobbleheads at the Monday night game. 
 
There are writers, there are people who were there as kids, as adults, who are writing about their memories, their experiences. 
 
I mean, what is that like? Is that overwhelming for you, for the family to see how he has celebrated, to know how he marked history and how others are marking that momentous day as well? 
 
LUCAS: It's a proud moment for the family. It really is. I think they are proud not only of this accomplishment, but also all the things that he's done in his life, that he did in his life.
 
It was a journey, right? And to finally sort of have that pinnacle moment and to be remembered for 50 years, that -- that's pretty incredible. And so it's a very proud moment for the family. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, it is an incredible moment. I mean, he was a giant, you know, on the field and beyond. Of course, you know, we're marking the 50th anniversary of making sports history.
 
But he did a lot. He made an impact by reminding people of the pervasive racism that existed within the MLB and beyond. 
 
What do you want people to understand, really grasp about the totality - we're not talking about the total eclipse -- but the totality of Hank Aaron, especially on that Monday anniversary? 
 
LUCAS: Yes. I think a couple of things. I think, first and foremost, no matter where you start in life, you can achieve amazing things. 
 
And I think when I look at his life, coming from a very humble beginning and Mobile, Alabama, to really the pinnacle of success in sports. I think that that's inspiring. So I want people to be inspired by that. 
 
And remember that because, again, it's super important where he came from and where he ended up. So it should be inspirational.
 
I also think it's important that, you know, we're always taught to whom much is given, much is required. It's so important to give back. And one of the things that he did throughout his life is give back to the community, give back of himself, but also his treasures. 
 
And he and my Aunt Billie established the Chasing the Dream Foundation where they support underrepresented youth and as they pursue their dreams, primarily in education. But also a lot of the work that's being done on behalf of him in terms of the Braves as well, the Braves Organization.
 
And the last thing I would just say is how we walk through life. There's something about that sense of humility and grace. 
 
And - but -- but also strength. And it shows that, you know, to be an elite athlete, you don't have to be brass. You don't have to be brag- a-dosha. You can walk authentically in who you are and be successful.
 
And I think that's a lesson for all.
 
WHITFIELD: He did that beautifully. And I love to hear of the -- you talk about him being an inspiration all the time. 
 
People would ask him, you know, how did you get through those really hard times? And there were many of them. And I love that, I guess, one of -- one of the most famous, I guess, quotes from him is, "Just keep swinging, keep swinging." 
 
So I wonder as you grew up, you know, was there -- was there a particular phrase or was there a lesson that he imparted on you that you think that you carry to this day? 
 
LUCAS: Yes. I think, you know, hustle in every inning, is kind of --
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
LUCAS: I love that phrase because it's so -- it's about the journey, right? It's not about just one event. It is understanding that it's nine innings in a game, and you've got to be present for every single one of them, right? And you may have a bad first half, but that doesn't mean you have to have a bad second half. 
 <br>[13:40:10]
 
And so just hustle in every inning and to be hopeful that, if you can have a positive outlook, if you put in the work. I mean, he had a tremendous work ethic. 
 
And you see this on camera, and it looks like, oh, just an easy swing hit, just the easy swing, but he really studied and he had an amazing work ethic and put in the work and put in the practice. 
 
And I think that's really important to be successful in life, whatever you endeavor.
 
WHITFIELD: That's how pros and people of greatness do it, right? They make it look effortless, but it's a lot of hard work along the way and to maintain his inspiration so many ways. 
 
Wonya Lucas, niece of Hammering Hank Aaron, thank you so much. Glad you could be with us today. 
 
LUCAS: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: Nice to meet you. 
 
LUCAS: Nice to meet you.
 
WHITFIELD: We all honor the great life and legacy of Hank Aaron.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:45:42]
 
WHITFIELD: New audio has surface as part of a new lawsuit that accuses his Christian Combs, Sean Diddy Combs' son, of sexual assault. 
 
The music mogul, Diddy, is not accused of sexual assault in the lawsuit, but is included on allegations of liability and aiding and abetting.
 
The lawsuits cites audio from a makeshift recording studio on the yacht where the alleged assault happened. Both men deny the allegations against them. 
 
CNN national correspondent, Camila Bernal, is joining me live with details on this. 
 
Camila. I mean, this filing is the latest in a series of lawsuits filed against Diddy. So what more can you tell us? 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred. So in this audio that CNN has listened to, you can hear the victim who alleges that she was being essentially pushed to take these tequila shots. 
 
And she asked -- in this audio, you can hear her asking if these shots were drugged. And what you hear Christian Combs saying is take the shot.
 
After this happened, the victim here alleges that she was cornered in a room by Christian Combs and she says that it became aggressive, it became physical, that he tried to essentially force himself on her.
 
And so this is a very long lawsuit. We're talking 31 pages where she details this abuse. And her lawyers essentially say that this all happened in this yacht.
 
And this happened in December of 2022. And this is a yacht that was leased by Diddy, which is why he is also implicated in this lawsuit, not for sexual assault allegations, but for the liability and the aiding and abetting. 
 
I want to go to part of what her attorneys are saying in terms of what this was like.
 
The attorney saying, "This defendant, Sean Combs, turned what was sold as a wholesome family excursion into a hedonistic environment." 
 
They go on to say, "It resulted in an unexpected increase in workload for her and her colleagues, as well as unwanted exposure to unlawful drug use sex works, and general chaos." 
 
So this woman who alleges this abuse in the lawsuit, she was a bartender, a crew member in his yacht. And so that's why she's saying she was cornered, that she was in this yacht with the family essentially, and saying that all of this abuse happened on that day and that there is the audio as proof. 
 
Now, the attorney for both Diddy and his son, Christian Combs, also releasing statements essentially saying that this is a lie. They're saying that, "This complaint is filled with manufactured lies and irrelevant facts."
 
And then they go on to say that they will file a motion to dismiss these claims. So we'll have to see what happens as they file these motions to dismiss the claims -- Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Camila Bernal, in Los Angeles, thanks so much. 
 
BERNAL: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Straight ahead, a manhunt is underway in Vermont. Police are looking for a suspect in connection with a fire at Senator Bernie Sanders' office. 
 <br>[13:48:44]
 
Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:53:25]
 
WHITFIELD: Police in Vermont are searching for suspect who they say lit Senator Bernie Sanders' office on fire. There were no reported injuries, but there was significant damage to the Senators office and other parts of the building.
 
Burlington police are now asking the public to help identify this suspect.
 
Joining me now is CNN's Polo Sandoval. 
 
Polo, what more are we learning about this investigation? 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So, Fred, Burlington police released that photo. You can clearly see who they describe as their arson suspect, that they are still trying to track down, hoping to encourage some leads here.
 
Police saying that their suspect entered the Burlington building yesterday about mid-morning, made his way into the vestibule. The building houses one of Bernie Sanders' -- Senator Bernie Sanders' office.
 
According to police, he sprayed some sort of accelerant at the entrance to that office and then set it on fire with staffers inside. Now, fortunately, the buildings fire suppression system kicked in, their sprinkler system, and was able to extinguish much of the flames there.
 
So no injuries reported. Damage was reportedly fairly minimal. And the Senator was not in the office at the -- at the time. 
 
The Senator's office is located, as you saw there, in a multi-story multi-office building. 
 
A Burlington fire battalion chief telling my colleague, Maria Campinoti, that they are still wondering exactly how this suspect was able to access that space, how he was able to make it upstairs.
 
According to the battalion chief, the building is secured, usually not open to the general public. The United States Capitol Police are working with the Senate sergeant-at-arms, working with local authorities as they investigate this.
 
We need to be clear. They have not yet established a motive, Fred. But some additional context for you, the U.S. Capitol Police investigated over 8,000 threats against lawmakers in 2023. That was a significant increase over the year before. 
 <br>[13:55:08]
 
So this certainly would not be unusual and may not be common, but it is nonetheless extremely alarming given what we have seen in the past with threats directed at members of Congress, 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval, thank you so much. 
 
SANDOVAL: Thanks, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, the next hour of the CNN NEWSROOM starts after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
[14:00:09:]
 
WHITFIELD: Hello, again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.