Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Police: Multiple People Shot In Super Bowl Parade Shooting. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired February 14, 2024 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:01]
 
STEVE MOORE, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTRIBUTOR: This is an area -- this area was where you can have an immense potential target count. And that's big for terrorists and active shooters, but it also brings in diverse groups who may not like each other. And so, you also have the possibility that this was potentially gang-related, something in that kind of vein. And we won't know until we know more about the suspects that they have.
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: And I wonder, Steve, you know, we're watching this happen. We have watched it here in the last few days of shooting at a megachurch. It seems that these spaces that Americans go to none of them feel safe. This is supposed to be a celebratory event.
 
So whether it is churches or schools, today is the anniversary of the Parkland shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. This seems like just to add it to the list of these soft targets and these places where these things are really not supposed to be mixing. And people are not supposed to feel that they're taking their lives into their hands to go to a victory parade.
 
MOORE: Of course. And I totally agree with that. I mean, if you look back a couple of decades, maybe 30 years ago, airports were soft targets. You could go right to the gate, you could walk on airplanes, sometimes without being challenged.
 
Everything in society moves and changes. Now you can't get past the lobby of an airport without an extensive search. You find now like in this shooting at the Church of Joel Osteen, you saw that the shooter was engaged by two congregants.
 
That is because every organization you see like this, you see the massive amount of security in this situation. But even churches, large churches are starting to have armed security people. It is a different day. And we need to start realizing that until we solve this societal issue, that we need to protect large groups of people, because those are targets for people with horrible minds.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Steve, please stand by. We want to pivot to Josh Campbell, because Josh, I understand you have some new reporting on the question of whether the shooting and the parade itself were connected.
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: No, that's right. And that is the major question we still have. It's worth pointing out that right now, there's no indication that the shooting was actually related to the event. It may turn out to be that case, as law enforcement gathers information, but law enforcement is providing information in real time as it's coming out.
 
I'll give you the latest verbatim what they said. This is short, but this is the latest that they know. They say that shots were fired west of Union Station near a garage, and multiple people were struck. We took two armed people into custody for more investigation.
 
So again, no indication right now that they were targeting this crowd. They did indicate the two people taken into custody. We don't know if this was some type of shooting between two parties, or if they indeed were, you know, trying to target victims. But that is important to point out.
 
We've seen a number of incidents that all three of us have covered over the years with active shooter events where they actually will target a crowd. Right now, no indication that that is the case. But they have two people that are in custody, they say that multiple people were quote, "struck."
 
And then you can only imagine an event like this where you have people who are fleeing in this chaotic situation, the number of potential additional injuries there as people were trying to get away from the sound of gunfire. So a lot for authorities to handle there on the ground.
 
We see on some of our imagery here, just this massive police presence that was already on site due to this celebration post-Super Bowl and some of the imagery we saw, you saw officers with their service weapons drawn, doing what are called clearing operations, clearing potential areas.
 
There was one video where they're going down a stairwell with their guns drawn. All of that is tried to ensure that there is no longer a threat that is ongoing. And, of course, in a situation like this that is so chaotic, you want to ensure that there are people who are fleeing and may be, you know, hiding or may have been injured, that need attention.
 
And so a lot of work for law enforcement still to be done. But with these two people in custody now, assuming that they can speak to these people that they can interview them, you know, we know in past incidents sometimes when law enforcement says that someone is in custody or apprehended, that doesn't necessarily mean that that person is in a state where they can actually be interviewed.
 
But if they are, that would glean important information for authorities to quickly rule out whether this was indeed some kind of targeted incident or whether this was an exchange of gunfire between two individual parties.
 
But nevertheless, a lot of work for authorities to do their and obviously now the medical care is the other angle we know in this day and age that often when you have a large scale events hospitals in and around the area will take notice that, you know, we have this mass event that has been planned here just so you are aware of it.
 <br>[15:35:15]
 
So you have the amount of appropriate personnel on staff should some medical emergency presented itself, and appears now at least to police say multiple people struck. So you can imagine that medical personnel also springing into action. That is what we know right now, that multiple people have been struck, that two people are in custody.
 
Right now, no indication that this was a targeted attack, but certainly quite concerning, guys.
 
KEILAR: OK, Josh, stick with us, if you will. This is what we're following. Multiple people shot at the Super Bowl parade site, the victory parade there in Kansas City, Missouri. Two armed people in custody. This is very much a developing story.
 
We're going to get in a quick break first, so let's listen to someone from the scene who -- and see what they experienced there in Kansas City.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We saw people running out of Union Station on the east side of the doors pretty frantically. And at that moment, we were receiving information that we needed to change where we were. So just to gather -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- and then just get to a safe space. So -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- there was information provided quickly, which was nice, but sure, it was a frantic situation. And it is still a little chaotic as people are still finding family members and understanding where is the best most safe route away.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:41:11]
 
SANCHEZ: We're continuing to follow the breaking news out of Kansas City, Missouri. CNN has just confirmed details on the number of victims hurt in this shooting that we've learned took place at the Super Bowl victory rally after the Kansas City Chiefs won the Super Bowl they were celebrating in downtown today.
 
We've learned that upwards of 10 victims were injured. This is at Union Station. This was near the end of the rally itself. Law enforcement officers reportedly taking two people into their custody. We don't know the details yet of exactly what transpired. But as we learn the new information, we will, of course, bring it to you. KEILAR: Yes. And so this had been, of course, the parade that had ended near Union Station in this rally that had gone on for some time and this was wrapping up when this all had happened. Of course, there was a huge police presence there. But what was really a celebratory mood, people just very excited for this big win for the Kansas City Chiefs.
 
And instead, they find themselves in many cases here running for their lives. We just heard people are trying to reconvene with their family members who they may have lost track of in the chaos at this point in time.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. We want to bring in CNN's Josh Campbell now because, Josh, you're getting updates from law enforcement in real time about their response and what they're learning about what unfolded there.
 
CAMPBELL: Yes, that's right. As Brianna just mentioned, we're now learning this was taking place and happen at the conclusion of this celebration, that coming from local police. They're saying that at the conclusion of the rally, there were shots fired west of Union Station.
 
As we indicated earlier, police had said that multiple people were struck. Now we're hearing from the fire department that upwards of 10 people have been injured. Unclear right now what -- we're talking about gunshot wounds, obviously, in a large crowd with people fleeing. There can also be injury sustained in the process of trying to get away from the sound of gunfire.
 
But at least according to the fire department right now, 10 people have been injured. Police say that they have taken two people into custody. Two armed individuals. No information that they're releasing right now and who those individuals are, whether this was a targeted type of attack, or whether this was gunfire that was exchanged perhaps between two parties.
 
We know this was taking place at least according to authorities near a garage next to this large celebration. Authorities are now asking for anyone who was in that area and witness events to contact law enforcement that tells us that they're still trying to piece all of this together.
 
Again, that notice just going out a short time ago from Kansas City Police asking anyone who was in around that area to please contact law enforcement, help describe what it is that you saw, what it is that you heard, as they try to, again, figure out what they're grappling with here.
 
And if -- we don't know the state of these two individuals, if they are indeed being interviewed, if they're providing information, how they were actually apprehended. Frankly, whether there was any type of force, you know, used by law enforcement and taking them into custody. So a lot of unanswered questions right now.
 
We do know that this large event came with a large security package to begin with. We've seen on our images here from our affiliate KNBC that law enforcement was on hand with departments from across the region. It was a state highway patrol, obviously, local police, different police agencies from around that area who were already on side providing security for that event.
 
And so, again, if there's any good news in a bad situation is that you had this large law enforcement posture that could quickly sprang into action to try to apprehend the people who perhaps were responsible for this and then try to help victims as well.
 
But, again, finally, you know, we're learning 10 people injured now, two people in custody, trying to determine the motive. Authorities are providing information in real time. We hope to get more soon.
 
KEILAR: And there is some new video that we have in here from Kansas City where you can see an ambulance, it appears. We don't know if there's someone who was injured. But at this point, as you mentioned, Josh, upwards of 10 people injured.
 <br>[15:45:10]
 
You'd reported before, no indication that they were trying to shoot into this crowd that this had happened at a garage west of Union Station. But the reality of the situation is there's so many people in the area, as you mentioned. What are they looking for when it comes to motive and more details here?
 
CAMPBELL: No, absolutely. It's worth pointing that out anytime that we see some type of potential mass shooting, as a potential, you know, at least a targeted mass shooting, because the motive is always the question. And as you mentioned, right now, we have no indication that this celebratory event itself was a target by two individuals, or whether this was a shooting that happened, you know, adjacent to this event, and you had a crowd that was struck that was, you know, they're nearby. 
 
So that's important to point out. We're not -- you're calling this a targeted mass shooting. Authority certainly are not calling that right now. But they do have a lot of work to do. Much of that comes down to what the current state is of these two individuals who have been taken into custody.
 
We've seen in various incidents where oftentimes suspects will gladly, you know, describe what it is that they were doing, why they were there, provide that information to police. Sometimes, you know, they will lawyer up making it much more difficult, but a lot of work going on behind the scenes right now to try to get to that motive, Bri.
 
KEILAR: All right, and we'll be having you standby for us as you're getting more details in. You can't help but notice what today is. This is the sixth anniversary of the Parkland School shooting. And as we watch this scene out of Kansas City, this is the unfortunate reality -- even as we await so many of the details of what is happening there -- this is the reality of living in America, the shootings that you see.
 
And we are joined now by Manuel and Patricia Oliver, who, of course, are the parents of Joaquin Oliver, known lovingly as Guac by so many of his friends and family, who was killed that day, six years ago, in his creative writing class.
 
We had an entirely different interview that we were going to do here just to talk about some of the work that you guys are doing on Capitol Hill trying to bring about awareness and change. And you see this happening as you were here visiting Washington. What is on your mind as you're watching this?
 
MANUEL OLIVER, FATHER OF PARKLAND SHOOTING VICTIM JOAQUIN OLIVER: Not surprised at all. It's like, literally, we interrupt these interview because we have another mass shooting going on, then you might be interrupting that one because it was going to be another one. So it never stops.
 
And yes, we will investigate so far, I can tell you two things. There's a gun and there's people that were shot. So far, without any investigation, I can tell that a common element, a gun, and someone's shooting innocent people. That should be enough for us to be offended and to start working on a solution.
 
SANCHEZ: I'm wondering how it must feel six years now since Guac passed away, and you've been fighting for change. Pretty much that entire time, you've been arrested on Capitol Hill for protesting, for bringing attention to this. And yet, even as you embark on this new campaign to bring attention to the issue, it doesn't seem like a whole lot is going to change. That has to be frustrating.
 
M. OLIVER: It is. But, you know what, I'm Joaquin's dad. I'm a father. So when you're a father, frustration is not -- it's not an option. I got to keep on doing things that a dad will do and that's exactly what I'm doing. These needs to end not because of me or Patricia, because of millions of young people in America want these to change. So I'm glad that we can be part of that change.
 
KEILAR: You are, as I mentioned here in D.C., delivering a message. And part of that is a very poignant message using artificial intelligence to take the words of victims who can no longer speak for themselves, but now allowing them to. Can you tell us about that and what you're hoping to accomplish with it?
 
PATRICIA OLIVER, MOTHER OF PARKLAND SHOOTING VICTIM JOAQUIN OLIVER: Definitely. We decided to go with the artificial intelligence. We've been growing through technology. When we were presented this project bringing Joaquin's voice again out there to send a message to these politicians, we decided that we want to be moving forward.
 
And I'd be having questions like, are you sure that he will be saying the same thing that he were saying on the audio? And I said, of course. And if you don't believe me, you can go online and you can see all the posts that he made prior. That proof that whatever he's saying today through that, a, AI audio, he will be bringing some other life to be able to make a difference and send a message.
 
SANCHEZ: So you're hoping to strike an emotional chord with lawmakers to get them to see what it looks like when gun violence ravages a family. What kind of response are you hoping to generate from them? What changes are you hoping to see? [15:50:10]
 
P. OLIVER: Well, I mean, I just came back from Capitol Hill. We visit a few representative. And we play the audios, different audios because we have six audios. And the reaction from the staffers were like -- they were trying to control their expression. And that's what I wanted to see.
 
And that's my hope because, you know, those staffers are the ones who get the phone calls. So when you're receiving this kind of voice message, you're expecting to get that message. So for me, is going to be that impactful that maybe it will move that message forward because -- or he is impressive, or he is offended, or for any emotion that he's going through, he will present it to the representative. And at least that will be doing something else.
 
KEILAR: Yes, it's a rusting to hear these things as it should be.
 
Manny and Patricia, thank you so much for being with us. We're unfortunately toward the end of our show. We're going to get a quick break and be right back because we watched this developing news out of Kansas City where upwards of 10 victims have been shot in this shooting following the Super Bowl rally there in Kansas City to celebrate the Chiefs' victory in the Super Bowl.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:55:57]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) saying when everything went down?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, we were -- if you were looking at the stage, we were to the right of the stage of the VIP area. And we saw some people start running. And we were like, OK, well, the police ran into the building. So we didn't worry, because there's a lot of police running.
 
And then someone said it was a fire. And then she comes running and she's like, no, its shots fired. And so we started listening to her, and then that's when we started -- yes. And -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was just telling everybody to get down, get down and like get out the way and the officers were coming around. And that's what they did, so -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Because you're saying that you saw police actually swarming something around (ph).
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So when I was leaving -- and I don't remember if my other friends were still with me right at the time because it kind of blurred.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They did. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But when we were heading west trying to get, you know, back in away from it, we saw the police swarm a stairwell and then we heard another pop from there. And that's when I was like, OK, we're gone.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Similar situation?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Same. Yes. I was on, like, on the -- 
 
SANCHEZ: We've been listening to eyewitnesses, rally goers at the Kansas City Chiefs victory rally in downtown Kansas City today. What was supposed to be a moment of jubilation after winning the Super Bowl turns into terror, as we see fans running from the scene where CNN has learned that shots were fired.
 
Upwards of 10 victims hurt in what is an apparent shooting. At least five people hospitalized at Truman Medical Center. And we've learned from law enforcement sources that two people, armed people at the rally have since been detained.
 
KEILAR: Yes. So this happened at a -- near a garage west of Union Station. And there had been this very fun parade where all of the members of the Kansas City Chiefs had participated, of course, that had gone down the main street there in Kansas City and culminated here with this rally by Union Station.
 
For a little over an hour, they were doing this and it was towards the end of this where the shots rang out nearby. Of course, there was a huge police presence nearby, they quickly responded. But obviously, a lot of people, as you mentioned, just completely terrified by this.
 
I want to bring in Ed Davis, who we've been speaking to about this. So Ed, this is what we know at this point upward of 10 injured during the shooting. At least five had been hospitalized, two armed individuals in custody. You know, what are you seeing in this moment, and what questions do you have?
 
ED DAVIS, FORMER BOSTON POLICE COMMISSIONER: Well, you brought a very good point. This is supposed to be a joyous occasion for the city. And these people have destroyed it, whoever was responsible for this has a lot to answer for. I've managed a dozen or so of events where hundreds of thousands of people come and this is your worst case scenario. This is what you're fearful of.
 
Hopefully, this is not a plan to attack on the event. It's criminals that bump into each other and resort to firearms. But the whole community suffers because of this. And the people involved needs to be held accountable for it. I mean, it's -- when something like this happens, the people who are responsible for it not only need to be held accountable criminally, but they need to be shunned by the community. This is a terrible thing to do to your city.
 
SANCHEZ: Steve Moore is also with us. Steve, with a crime scene of this scale and this many people involved, what does an investigation like this look like? MOORE: Well, it's actually going to depend quite a bit on the shooters who they were and what their motives were. If they can establish for instance gang ties something like this, or link it to the shooting earlier in the day, not far from there, then you don't have to go through the massive, intensive, full search of the grounds, the crime scene, the crime scene becomes immensely larger if it's a plan to attack.
 
And, I mean, you're talking a mile square sometimes for something like this. So they're going to be very quickly trying to identify who the shooters were and the motive for that shooting. If it turns out to be something that is explained very well by the actions and by the identities of the persons who were shooting, then the crime scene gets the immediate crime scene, the shooting, that gets limited to just the area of the shooting in like the entire location.
 
KEILAR: Well, we know that they have a lot of work ahead of them. Steve Moore, Ed Davis, thank you so much.
 
We are following this, the shooting at the Kansas City Chief Super Bowl victory rally. Jake Tapper picks up our coverage.