Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Ramadan Brings No Relief From War For Palestinians In Gaza; Netanyahu: Israel Will Move Forward With Rafah Incursion; Biden: Israel Would Cross "Red Line" By Invading Rafah. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired March 11, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ERICA HILL, CNN HOST: Good morning or good evening, depending on where you're joining us. I am Erica Hill in New York. 
 
At this hour, in Gaza, Ramadan begins without a deal for a ceasefire. Israeli officials say a ground invasion in the southern city of Rafah is not imminent. This as President Biden warned such an operation would cross, in his view, "a red line". Both Joe Biden and Donald Trump hitting the campaign trail in the key swing state of Georgia over the weekend. Can Donald Trump win back that key southern state? We'll dig into that and much more with our political panel ahead. Plus, happening now in Michigan, the manslaughter trial for James Crumbley has resumed. Crumbley, of course, is accused of enabling his son's shooting rampage that left four people dead. We'll bring you the very latest.
 
Ramadan bringing no relief for Palestinians during months of war in Gaza. Israel continuing with its attacks as the Muslim holy month gets underway. There is, of course, at this hour, no ceasefire agreement in sight. Over the weekend, President Joe Biden warned an Israeli offensive on Rafah would be, in his view, "a red line", other than immediately added he would never abandon Israel or cut off all weapons. In response, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu still vowing to attack Rafah to root out Hamas. Israeli and U.S. officials, however, tell CNN they do not believe an offensive there is imminent. It's important to note, more than a million Palestinians are sheltering now in Rafah, many of them virtually pinned up against the Egyptian border. 
 
Let's bring in Jeremy Diamond who joins us now from Jerusalem with more. So, Jeremy as we noted, Ramadan beginning, no ceasefire, no invasion of Rafah. When it comes to Rafah, however, the Prime Minister making it very clear in an interview yesterday that this really appears to be a question of when, not if.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. No doubt about it. Israeli officials, including the Israeli Prime Minister, are just as committed as ever to carrying out a major military offensive into Rafah where we know that about 1.5 million Palestinians are currently living. But, Israeli officials have told me that an invasion of Rafah, an offensive into Rafah is not imminent. And that's for a couple of reasons. First of all, the Israeli military has yet to build up the amount of forces inside of Gaza that it would need to carry out that offensive successfully. And secondly, they have yet to begin to carry out the plans to evacuate civilians from that city. In fact, those plans, we're told, have yet to actually be finalized or approved by the Israeli war cabinet. 
 
And I'm told that that evacuation would likely take at least two weeks. And so, as Israeli officials have repeatedly promised American officials that they will carry out an evacuation before moving forward with an offensive, that could potentially put that offensive at least a couple of weeks away. And again, Israeli officials have made clear that they're not going to rule out an offensive in Rafah during Ramadan, but it appears that at least for the beginning of this holy Muslim month, they will not be moving forward with that offensive. Erica.
 
HILL: And this is really -- there have been questions about it for some time. But, certainly, on the heels of comments from both President Biden and Prime Minister Netanyahu over the weekend specifically about Rafah, this has really brought it back to the forefront here. President Biden in an interview saying that an Israeli invasion of Rafah would cross "a red line", Prime Minister Netanyahu picked up on that immediately. What more did he have to say in response, Jeremy?
 
DIAMOND: Yeah. That's right. I mean, first of all, Erica, those comments from President Biden were perhaps some of the most cutting that he has made so far about the Israeli Prime Minister. President Biden has often tried to show a strong public solidarity with Israel as well as with Netanyahu, especially during this war and keeping his criticism mostly private. But, we have seen him be increasingly vocal in his criticism of the way Israel is carrying out this war, as we've now seen more than 30,000 Palestinians killed, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health, but also more critical of the Israeli Prime Minister himself, as President Biden said that he believes Netanyahu is hurting Israel more than it is helping it by the way that this war is being conducted. 
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
The Israeli Prime Minister, for his part, he responded by saying that he will move forward with an offensive in Rafah, something that President Biden suggested would be "a red line". And Netanyahu also said that his red line is ensuring that the terrorist attacks of October 7 do not happen again. He also defended himself on this notion that he is not acting in the interests of Israelis, saying that he believes that his positions are espoused by the overwhelming majority, he said, of Israelis, who also, he said, do not want a Palestinian state after this war. 
 
Of course, Prime Minister Netanyahu has repeatedly rejected the notion of establishing a Palestinian state in the aftermath of this war in Gaza, even as President Biden has made clear that this is a top priority for him, hoping that out of the rubble of this war that a Palestinian state can be established as well as full normalization between Israel and many of its Arab neighbors, including Saudi Arabia. 
 
Now, the Israeli Prime Minister is right that his position on a lot of these issues, including the conduct of the war in Gaza, is actually shared by a lot of Israelis that there is a kind of an interesting phenomenon taking place in the U.S., as Biden and other Democrats in particular have been trying to kind of cast the way that this war is being conducted as something that Netanyahu is doing himself, but there is really no indication that this war would be carried out differently if another member of this war cabinet were in charge. Erica.
 
HILL: Jeremy Diamond, appreciate the reporting. Thank you. 
 
Well, Sweden is making it official in Belgium today. After joining NATO last week, a flag raising ceremony earlier today in Brussels welcomed the Nordic state into the alliance. Russia's war in Ukraine pushed Sweden and Finland to end their neutrality and sign up with the West. While Sweden is the newest member state, NATO Secretary General and Sweden's Prime Minister made clear they expect the alliance will continue to grow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: And it demonstrates also that NATO's door is open. It's for NATO allies and the applicant contrary to decide. It's not for Russia to decide. 
 
ULF KRISTERSSON, SWEDISH PRIME MINISTER: We should not be naive, and I think we are more aware of the risks that they pose to us now than we have ever been before.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Sweden is now the 32nd member of NATO. The alliance has Bosnia, Georgia, and Ukraine, have all declared their aspirations to join. This latest NATO expansion comes amid exclusive CNN reporting that Russia is out producing the U.S. and Europe when it comes to making artillery shells. That assessment is based on NATO intelligence and sources familiar with efforts to arm Ukraine. It shows the Russians are making about 250,000 artillery rounds each month, or about three million a year. That is nearly three times what the U.S. and Europe can churn out. A high-level NATO official tells CNN, this is now a war of production. And analysts say the war in Ukraine could be won or lost based on who fires the most artillery shells. Ukrainian forces are paying the ultimate price as foreign aid remains stalled in the United States. 
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh filed this report. Take a look at the medics who are risking it all to save the lives of those wounded troops on the frontlines.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Night is also their enemy here. Daylight brings the threat of attack drones. So, it's hard to collect casualties from the frontline. Dark is when they bring most wounded out to medics hiding in the tree line. The other light flashes from enormous bombs hitting the village of Orlivka and around, a tiny place of outsized consequence. It's Ukraine's defensive line, but Russia is raging hard for a breakthrough, the flash is constant, a seven-mile slog from there to here for the wounded. 
 
ARTEM, COMBAT MEDIC, 59TH INFANTRY BRIGADE (Interpreted): There was a lot this morning. Six or four. But they were heavily wounded. It depends on the day. Right now it's relatively few. The Russians have more vehicles, more weapons, more men, and that's the biggest problem. 
 
WALSH (voice-over): They wait underground for the radio to say who, when, where it feels almost mundane, often hours of silence, the thump of shelling hidden by TV series.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): Drones are a huge problem. We rarely evacuate during daylight. Mostly at night. We try to extract the heavily injured during the day too. 
 
WALSH (voice-over): Then it is time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): One wounded to pick up. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): What's the condition? When and who delivers?
 
WALSH (voice-over): They never really know what they'll find until they get there, and they too are targets. 
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
But, along this Eastern Front, these slick routines carry on, minus one key thing, hope. 
 
WALSH: Because of the intensity of the fighting here, this happens all night, every night, the desperate race to use dark as the cover of night to get the wounded to hospital as fast as possible. Here, you can't see more.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): Put the camera away. Put it away. 
 
WALSH (voice-over): From one Humvee to another, the wounded of a war they're losing because the U.S. is dropping out.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): I don't see blood. Roll the sleeve brother. 
 
WALSH (voice-over): The force of a blast appears to have broken his upper arm. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): It's my bone.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): Yes, I can see it.
 
WALSH (voice-over): It's going to be a painful drive until the drugs kick in. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): Bodya. Drive slowly. No potholes
 
 please.
 
WALSH (voice-over): He says he only had stitches out four days ago from another injury, a Russian attack drone ripping into their armored vehicle two weeks ago. One of the five men hid inside then is still in hospital. Tonight, it was also drones.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): We were running for kilometers. Under the drones. Under everything. They were waiting for us as soon as we arrived. Our two groups were pinned down by drones. The medevac was coming but we can't see it. It's also being shelled with everything they have. I just heard a bang right on my side. I fell down inside the Humvee. Couldn't feel my hand. Couldn't move the fingers. So the arm is still there, in its place. Can they fix it? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (Interpreted): Yes, there is nothing serious. You are very lucky the artery isn't damaged. 
 
WALSH (voice-over): When they get to the hospital, all is blacked out and we cannot even film doors. Russia is scouring the frontlines for any part of the medical chain to hit, to make help harder and further away, just like American money.
 
Nick Paton Walsh.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: And our thanks again to Nick Paton Walsh for that reporting. 
 
U.S. Senator Bob Menendez has entered a plea in federal court just a short time ago, pleading not guilty to 12 new felony charges. The New Jersey lawmaker, his wife and three others face these new charges that they tried to obstruct the investigation into bribery allegations. Despite this latest legal problem, the Democrat telling CNN he has no intention of resigning. What about running, though, for another term?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Senator Menendez, after this third indictment, are you considering resigning? 
 
SEN. BOB MENENDEZ (D-NJ): No.
 
RAJU: What about running for reelection? 
 
MENENDEZ: Ah, that's another question. 
 
RAJU: When will you make that decision?
 
MENENDEZ: When I decide and everybody went up. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: And so we wait. Joining us from outside New York Federal Court is CNN's Jason Carroll.
 
 So, Jason, we have a plea this morning. What more can you tell us about these charges?
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, here is the thing. His plea was expected. He has remained defiant throughout all of this, saying that this has been an attempt by the government to go after him. In the superseding indictment, basically what prosecutors are saying, they're saying that what Nadine Menendez, the Senator's wife, and the Senator did is tried to cover up their alleged crimes by saying that the bribes that they had received weren't in fact bribes. They tried to make it out that they were loans, loans instead of bribes. They are now facing 18 additional accounts, which they have pled -- pleaded not guilty to, including conspiracy, acting as a foreign agent, bribery, extortion, and wire fraud. 
 
And again, the Senator and his wife have pleaded not guilty before to bribery charges, this go around. Again, what they're basically saying is they tried to cover up these bribes, saying that the money that they have received for the mortgage for their home, the money that they had received for a new Mercedes was a loan and not as -- and not these bribes. Also alleged in the superseding indictment, Erica, is that they lied to their former attorneys and that their former attorneys then gave that misleading information to U.S. attorneys when they had meetings with them last year. So, again, not entirely unexpected for the Senator and his wife to enter these pleas of not guilty, given that the Senator has remained defiant throughout all of this. Erica.
 
HILL: He certainly has remained defiant. We saw him there with Manu just a couple of days ago in the Capitol. We also have seen multiple calls, including from some in his own party, for him to step aside. 
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
There has been no change, though, over the weekend for the Senator when it comes to that decision. 
 
CARROLL: Right. And you go out to New Jersey, Erica, and you speak to voters, which we have in the past, and they've made it very clear. They feel as though the Senator at this point is a distraction. They feel as though he should step down. The Senator, for his part, again, has been saying that he is not going to step down. He has not sort of indicated what he would do in terms of seeking another term. But, he has said that all of this about the government going after him. He says -- when you think about him keeping cash in his house, keeping those gold bars in the house, remember, they found the gold bars and the cash stuffed in clothes in his house when investigators were there serving a search warrant, he says, culturally, it's not unusual for peoples of certain cultures to keep things like this in their home. And so, again, he has remained defiant. He has shown no sign that he is going to step down. He and his wife, Nadine Menendez, plan to fight this in federal court.
 
HILL: Jason Carroll, good to have you there. Thank you. Well, it may not be quite official just yet, but it is most definitely
 
 on. And if the weekend is any indication, the Biden-Trump rematch promises to be a bruising one. Plus, people broke the ceiling of the plane. That's how one passenger is describing the mid-air chaos on a flight heading to New Zealand.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: Buckle up. Both President Biden and Donald Trump coming out swinging in the unofficial start to the general election, holding campaign rallies just a short distance from one another in the key battleground state of Georgia over the weekend. The former President slammed Mr. Biden's State of the Union address, mocked his stutter, and then offered this invitation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If you're a disillusion Democrat, of which there are many today, I extend an open hand, an open invitation, and I ask you to join us on the noble quest of saving our country, saving our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Meantime, the current President sought to contrast himself and his vision for the country from his likely Republican challenger.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: We're all know Donald Trump sees a different America, an American story of resentment, revenge and retribution. That's not me. That's not you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: With me now, Margaret Talev, a Senior Contributor for Axios. She is also the Director of Syracuse University's Democracy, Journalism and Citizenship Institute, and Farnoush Amiri, Congressional Reporter for the Associated Press. It's great to see both of you this morning. 
 
Margaret, I was struck by that invitation. Despite the invitation from Donald Trump to Democrats, he really still seems to be messaging very clearly to his base, even as we've essentially moved into the general.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
MARGARET TALEV, SENIOR CONTRIBUTOR, AXIOS, &amp; DIRECTOR, SYRACUSE UNIV. DEMOCRACY, JOURNALISM &amp; CITIZENSHIP INSTITUTE: It's really interesting because you do hear him use this language that you think about as base messaging language, leaning very hard into the immigration argument, and the kind of dire apocalyptic vision and the very personal campaign against Joe Biden, but then outreach in this arms, telling basically the center and perhaps conservative Democrats, come join me on my campaign for retribution driven by negativity and dire visions for the world. So, it is really different than the Joe Biden vision. I would be
 
 surprised if this is the message that Donald Trump is sharing in October. But, hey, I could be wrong. But, I think right now you're at a point where like even though the general election campaign has started, it's March. So, when you talk to most Americans, they're not engaging multiple times a day or even a week with the election. Many haven't started paying attention yet. So, it's still this tipping point where he is still trying to energize the base and see who else he can pick up.
 
HILL: Farnoush, I was struck, there was some new polling out from an ABC News/Ipsos poll that came out asking specifically who would be a better leader, offering the choice choices of President Biden and former President Trump. If we look at the findings here, 36 percent say Donald Trump. 33 percent say Joe Biden. 30 percent say neither. You've got a margin of error of 4.5 percent here. So, it's essentially the same across the board for everyone. As we're moving into a general with numbers like that, there is a lot of work to be done, especially if you include some of those Haley voters, Farnoush, who are up for grabs. 
 
FARNOUSH AMIRI, U.S. CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER, ASSOCIATED PRESS: Yeah. Definitely. I mean, we saw this past weekend initially the beginning of the general election. Right? It hasn't been made official yet. But, it's been clear all along that it would become -- it would be a Joe Biden and Donald Trump rematch. And we saw that, with Haley out of the race, Trump is able to refocus most of his energy on Joe Biden, on the guy that he is trying to defeat on his way to the White House. And as Margaret said, I mean, they're presenting very, very stark different views of the America that they would lead. And it is stunning. 
 
But, like Margaret said as well, most Americans are not engaged with this. I'm not surprised by that polling. I think both -- a lot of Americans didn't want this kind of rematch. But, this is the reality that we're in. And it will be really interesting as we go into this campaign season full force to see how those numbers change and who they think is ready to lead them.
 
HILL: It's interesting to see the Biden campaign seems to be finally perhaps leaning into the age issue and the age question. They have a new ad out. I want to show a little bit of that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: Look, I'm not a young guy. That's no secret. But, here is the deal. I understand how to get things done for the American people. I believe the job of the President is to fight for you, the American people, and that's what I'm doing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: So, that's a new ad. I'm not a young guy leaning into that. I was struck by the ad coming out. Also we learned today, I believe it is 15 different youth voter groups have now said they're endorsing the Biden-Harris campaign. There is a clear need to get those younger voters. And what's fascinating to me, Margaret, too is the timing of all this given that there could be a House vote this week. We're expecting on a TikTok ban, which is key for a number of younger voters.
 
TALEV: Yeah. The TikTok messaging has been sort of problematic for Joe Biden. But, I think the Biden campaign has just decided, whatever, throw everything at the wall and see what you can use to engage and activate and win over younger voters. What you saw over the weekend with Donald Trump and this was quite stark was him imitating, making fun of President Biden's stutter, President Biden's diction, the way older people speak sometimes, I think he is not just doing that to get in Joe Biden's head or be mean. He is doing it because the polling shows that when voters say, well, why do you think Joe Biden is too old? They talk about things like the way he talks or how quickly he can make an argument. 
 
And Trump has just decided to lean into it to try to undercut people's confidence in Biden. Biden is looking now for another way to acknowledge the fact that he is older and sort of (inaudible) to voters, but to try to make the case for voters for why that shouldn't be the thing on which they base whether they'll vote for him, again, two starkly different approaches. It's impossible to imagine Joe Biden making fun of Donald Trump the same way. So, Biden is trying to address Trump on the issues and on the record, and Trump is thinking that if he goes after Biden personally, it will help propel him with enthusiasm. 
 
HILL: When it comes to the issues and the message in the record, something else that stood out in that ABC News/Ipsos poll is the handling of the economy. So, respondents were asked how Joe Biden is handling it in their view, and how they feel Donald Trump handled it when he was President. 
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
I mean, look at the difference in those numbers there, Farnoush. This is still a major area for the campaign, the Biden campaign, where they are really struggling to gain ground. There are a lot of positive indicators for the economy, but finding the narrative that resonates, that still seems to be lacking.
 
AMIRI: Yeah. I mean, this goes back to the messaging issue that Democrats have had for the past two, three years. Right? They've had these major, I cover Capitol Hill, these major legislative accomplishments that have -- that experts say have impacted the economy in a positive way. I mean, Joe Biden started his speech at the State of the Union talking about how the economy is the strongest in the world and all of these things, but they do not tie those things. They do not tie infrastructure, chips, the Inflation Reduction Act, any of the legislative feats. 
 
Like, it is really hard for Biden campaign to get the messaging across that this is Joe Biden's work, that this is the work of a Democratic President. This is the work of a Democratic-controlled Senate. And I think that this has been the issue for years, and whether or not they can shift that where they can get the credit that they think that they deserve for these accomplishments and for the economy before November, I think is the biggest question. 
 
HILL: Real quickly, I was struck by some comments that Donald Trump made. I believe it was on CNBC, specifically targeting Facebook. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP (Via Telephone): -- Facebook to be an enemy of the people, along with a lot of the media. I think Facebook has been very -- I think Facebook has been very bad for our country, especially when it comes to elections.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: It's interesting, going after the company directly. I keep bringing this back to TikTok because I think it's going to be fascinating as we watch that make its way, that legislation make its way through Washington. There were some concerns among other lawmakers that you shouldn't call out one company in particular when talking about issues with social media. Donald Trump, as we know, does things his own way, going directly after Facebook. I would imagine there is a Mark Zuckerberg element to that probably coming from the former President. 
 
But, Margaret, that direct statement that now Facebook is also an enemy of the people, does that hurt him at all?
 
TALEV: Well, it's ironic because there is so much pro-Trump information and misinformation that's been spread to people who don't consume news regularly, who get most of their news from Facebook. So, I think this is personal. I really wouldn't look for consistency of message on any of this. But, I think between AI, Sam Altman, all of the attention around social media and TikTok, we're certainly going to see how much social media figures in the election, but I'm just not looking for a lot of consistency or rhyme or reason in this messaging. And I think, ultimately, when it comes to the economy, people are voting based on the price of goods and on their cost of housing, and not larger economic indicators.
 
HILL: Great to see you both this morning. Thank you. 
 
Just ahead here on the Trump legal front, a brand new development just into CNN, which involves the former President's defamation case here in New York. E. Jean Carroll has now given her consent to that $91.6 million bond which Donald Trump posted on Friday as required while he repeals the judgment against him. A reminder, in January, a jury awarded Carroll more than $83 million in damages for Trump's defamatory statements against her, comments he made after he was found liable for sexually abusing Carroll in a separate case. Over the weekend, Trump spoke about the bond at a rally in Georgia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: I just posted a $91 million bond, $91 million, on a fake story totally made-up story, $91 million, based on false accusations made about me by a woman that I knew nothing about, didn't know. Never heard of. I know nothing about her. And when I denied it, I said it's so crazy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: That judgment was to keep from comments like those the former President from saying those things. During the appeal, Carroll will not be able to collect the award. We're going to keep monitoring this story for you. 
 
Former Trump White House Advisor Peter Navarro will have to report to prison by March 19. This after he was convicted for contempt of Congress for defying a subpoena from the January 6 House Select Committee. Navarro's attorneys say he will begin serving that four- month sentence at a low security prison in Florida. 
 
Just ahead, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken headed to Jamaica for an emergency meeting on the growing crisis in Haiti, as more countries evacuate their citizens from the embattled nation. Plus, primary voting is underway for expat Democrats. So, what's at stake here in the presidential election for Americans living overseas?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: Welcome back. You're watching CNN Newsroom. I'm Erica Hill in New York. 
 
Let's get you caught up in sort of the international headlines we're watching today. It is the picture worth thousand questions. The Princess of Wales apologizing after a family photo ignited a new storm of controversy for the royal family over the last 24 hours. The photo which was posted on her social media Sunday morning and then distributed by Kensington Palace was later pulled in a matter of hours by news organizations who said they had reason to believe the image had been manipulated. We're showing you some of the areas of concern there. In a statement, Kate Middleton said she "occasionally experiments with editing and is sorry for any confusion." 
 
At least 50 people are being treated for injuries after a terrifying flight from Sydney to Auckland when the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner plane they were on experienced a sudden massive jolt in the air. One passenger said people flew in the air inside the plane and "broke the ceiling of the plane". The Chilean airline LATAM is calling this a technical event. Boeing, for its part, says it is working to gather more information. 
 
At least 26 people are dead in Indonesia's West Sumatra province as the area faces flooding and landslides. Officials say more than 78,000 people have been displaced, and there are a number who still remain missing. 
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is making an important trip to Jamaica today. This is for an emergency meeting on Haiti, and it comes as gang violence spirals in the country. Gang leaders have been calling for the Prime Minister to step down. Thousands have been displaced. The U.S. military, over the weekend, evacuating non- essential personnel from its embassy in Haiti. The German and EU missions have also evacuated diplomatic staff. Secretary Blinken's spokesperson says the situation on the ground in Haiti, in his estimation, continues to deteriorate. 
 
CNN's Patrick Oppmann joins us now from Havana. He has been monitoring the situation in the region. What more can you tell us about this emergency meeting of leaders today, Patrick?
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, the U.S. has really been pushing for a Haitian Prime Minister Ariel Henry to name a transition government, essentially open the door to elections, and make some concessions to other political parties in Haiti, many of whom have ties to those gangs to show that he is willing to share power and essentially head towards the exit, because, of course, it's been eight years since there has been an election in Haiti, and Henry was never elected. He succeeded an assassinated President in Haiti. No indications, though, that Henry will be at the meeting with Blinken in Jamaica today. 
 
So, it really is about a regional leaders meeting with the U.S., trying to come up with a solution to the ongoing worsening violence in Haiti. 
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
Although the reality, though, is the international community just seems to have less and less influence when it comes to the events taking place on the ground in Haiti, the out-of-control gang violence that has closed down the main airport in Port-au-Prince, has threatened the National Palace as damaging, interior ministry, other places, and up until now had really been well-protected embassies. And that is why you've seen U.S. s diplomats, non-essential personnel being pulled out on military aircraft over the weekend. Other embassies, other aid organizations, their employees leaving on helicopters as well, because that is the only safe way to leave the country at this point. 
 
So, while the international community is obviously very worried, the U.S. is very worried about the events that are spiraling out of control in Haiti. At this point, no indication that any kind of security force from outside can come in to restore order. And the gangs have been very, very clear. They want the Haitian Prime Minister to step down. He is unable to return to his own country at this point, and the situation continues to get worse. And it's unclear what diplomatic solution, if any, is really going to solve this crisis.
 
HILL: Yeah. Patrick, appreciate the reporting this morning. Thank you. 
 
Well, voting is underway for American Democrats living abroad. In 2020, then-candidate Biden lost the overseas primary to independent Senator Bernie Sanders by wide margin. Thousands of Democrats voting uncommitted in states like Michigan and Minnesota in primaries back here in the U.S. What could all that translate to in terms of the overseas vote for President Biden this time around? Martha McDevitt-Pugh is the International Chair for the group
 
 Democrats Abroad, and joins us now. Martha, it's good to see you. So, where do things stand? We mentioned what happened in 2020 and some concerns heading into this 2024 primary, essentially. What's the enthusiasm level like?
 
MARTHA MCDEVITT-PUGH, INTERNATIONAL CHAIR, DEMOCRATS ABROAD: Well, good morning, Erica, and thanks so much for having me here today. We've been running global primary voting at 100 locations around the world in 46 countries, in-person voting as well as remote voting. And I can tell you, the energy and the enthusiasm at our voting centers has been really high. People are really delighted that they're able to come and vote in person with Democrats abroad, cast their vote for a primary presidential candidate, and they will be all set to be able to vote in the November election. So, we're getting a lot of enthusiasm in person. 
 
Of course, the numbers are not what they were in 2020 when we had a contested primary with many different candidates, but we're seeing also a lot of people voting remotely. And we're really looking forward to the next couple of days of voting in our global primary, and then announcing our results on March 25th. 
 
HILL: When we talk about issues, consistently the polling of voters in the U.S. show that the economy is really up there as a top priority. What are you seeing from those living abroad in terms of major issues and concerns heading into this 2024 election?
 
MCDEVITT-PUGH: Yeah. Well, the issues that we're hearing from Americans abroad are issues that really matter to us in terms of our lives as American citizens who have family and friends, possibly elderly parents. When they return to the United States, we want to be sure that we have access to our Social Security. I mean, certainly, there is a lot of confidence in President Biden, and he spoke that out in the State of the Union address, how important it was to make sure Social Security is funded and is working. That's a very important issue. But, what I hear from Americans abroad is how important democracy is. We did a poll recently to find out what issues were mattering most to our members and our voters, and they're really committed to democratic institutions and the future of democracy. 
 
HILL: Which is interesting to see. We know the Biden campaign has made that a large part of the campaign itself moving into 2020 -- into 2024, pardon me. There are questions about if it is resonating with voters here on U.S. soil, it will be interesting to see. Foreign policy is incredibly important, especially for folks, expats living abroad, if they look at how things are being handled. There is some new polling, an ABC News/Ipsos poll that just came out. And when it comes to the way President Biden is handling the situation in Israel and Gaza, the numbers are not great. 65 percent of respondents say they disapprove of the way it's being handled. What are you hearing?
 
MCDEVITT-PUGH: Well, we certainly have members all around the world, and we have members that have a lot of different perspectives on what's happening with foreign policy. It's an important issue for us because we really don't speak to foreign policy. We want to be sure that our members around the world are safe. And we're creating forums for them to have discussions around that. I think it's one of the issues that will impact the election, but, of course, hearing about a whole other range of issues, for example, our voting rights. We're covered under federal law, the same law that covers military voters. Our members around the world and Americans abroad care very much that we're able to vote back in the states that we vote. 
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
So, people are very connected back to the places where they have lived in the United States and with friends and family. So, voting rights is an important issue, taxation, and the President spoke about that the other day in the State of the Union, how important it was to simplify taxation. That is one of the top issues for Americans abroad. So, we see a whole variety of issues. And I think also family unification, immigration are really important issues. Many of us want to have the right to be able to return to the United States with our families and have an immigration system that works. Reproductive rights is actually after democracy, one of the top issues that our members are seeing.
 
HILL: Do the members who you speak with, do they feel that their voices are heard back in Washington?
 
MCDEVITT-PUGH: Well, I think that that is one of the things that we're really here for as an organization as Democrats Abroad, to make sure that we are included and not left out of important legislation and matters that happen in the United States. Sometimes, we do get forgotten and left out. I mean, the $2 trillion Trump tax giveaway was one of those issues that really seriously impacted Americans abroad who are small business owners, and we really need to elect Democrats in order to fix that.
 
HILL: Martha McDevitt-Pugh from Democrats Abroad, good to have you with us this morning. Thank you. 
 
MCDEVITT-PUGH: Thank you. 
 
HILL: A pair of closely watched cases could change the way the U.S. prosecutes mass shootings. Just ahead here, the latest on the trial of James Crumbley, the father of the Michigan school shooter. Plus, highlights ahead from the 96th Annual Academy Awards, including this moment. Yeah. It might make you want to go to the gym. We'll explain.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: The father of the Michigan School shooter is back in court at this hour and the case could be in the jury's hands this week. James Crumbley is on trial for manslaughter just weeks after his wife was convicted over their son's 2021 mass shooting in which he killed four students and wounded seven others at a high school. On Friday, the judge told jurors the trial was running so far ahead of schedule. We're getting live pictures now that the prosecution had actually run out of witnesses to call that day. 
 
We're joined now by CNN Legal Analyst Joey Jackson. Joey, good to have you with us. What are you watching for as we move forward into another day here?
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yeah. Erica, good to be with you. So, the critical things in the case of what I'm looking for, what are those things? Number one, the extent to which it would have been foreseeable for the father to be aware that their child would have engaged in the behavior he did, which, of course, is to kill four students and injure several others. So, to what degree can they demonstrate that the father should have foreseen this? Now, what evidence could establish that? I think evidence with respect to the mental health maladies of the child. How was he aware of that? Was here aware in the event that he being James Crumbley was aware, did he get the proper aid and attention? 
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
With respect to the meeting that they had, Erica, what meeting, the meeting that the parents, him and Jennifer? As you note, of course, she was convicted already, the mother. When they're called at that meeting, to what extent did the father raise any awareness of the firearm that he purchased for his son to let them know that? To what extent, if any, did his father express concerns about the mental health maladies there? And finally, what I'm looking for is the issue of the gun itself. Did you take, as the father, preventative measures to secure that gun? Were those steps enough? Did you know enough, right? And even if you didn't know enough, did you keep it out of his reach such that this wouldn't occur? 
 
And so. I think prosecutors, Erica, are going to really be honing in on those critical issues, the extent to which that gentleman right there knew of his son's mental health maladies, and number two, took preventative steps to hide the gun, all of that going to the issue of negligence, carelessness. If the prosecution can show carelessness, then guess what? I think it's more probable that a conviction would be had here. 
 
HILL: There was a lot of talk in the wake of Jennifer Crumbley's conviction that perhaps there would be some sort of a plea, which obviously did not happen. As you look at this, do you see evidence of the impact of that conviction in that trial on this one?
 
JACKSON: I really do. I mean, obviously, it's not good for him. That is James Crumbley, the husband, that his wife got convicted. Now, remembering what happened in that trial, Erica, what did happen? Number one, the wife blamed him, saying that he was the one, James Crumbley, responsible for the gun, the purchase of the gun, the secreting or securing of the gun, right? And so, that's problematic, because if the jury sees that and they get evidence, which they have been hearing in terms of he is responsible, right, for purchasing the weapon, he is responsible for hiding the weapon, and he didn't take steps to do that, that's troubling. 
 
The other issue, though, which is not as clear as it was in Jennifer's case, is the extent to which he may have been on notice of these various text messages where the mother seems to have some indication that the school or others, right, her son was trying to reach out for help where the father may not have that knowledge. So, what if anything will the prosecution do to show that as the father, either you knew your son had some problems, or you should have known, right? They did a good job with the mother. Can they do that with him? If they do, then again it leads more towards a conviction than it would an acquittal. 
 
HILL: There has been so much discussion especially in the wake of that conviction about what this means moving forward in this country where unfortunately we see far too many mass shootings and far too consistently. Have you started to see the fallout yet from that conviction, Joey?
 
JACKSON: Yeah, I mean, absolutely. I think it's immediate. And what do I mean by that? Now, of course, we have a criminal justice system, Erica, which things take time, right? A person is charged and there is a whole process by which a person is brought to justice, and everyone has a right to defend themselves. But, I think the overarching issue was one of deterrence and one of accountability. Well, what does that mean? It means that if people, if with parents know that they can be prosecuted and convicted and face 15 years, as you're facing here, for not doing enough to recognize your child's problems or hiding a gun, that changes behavior immediately. Right? So, it has the deterrent effect. 
 
Number two, if parents can know that they will be accountable, then I think behavior is changed right off the bat. Right? And number two, I think prosecutors know that they can use this as an example to have people be more careful with the threat of prosecution if they are not careful. So, I think it's a sea change not only in this jurisdiction, but throughout the country of how prosecutors will approach these cases and how parents will approach their children.
 
HILL: Joey, always appreciate your insight and your expertise, my friend. Thank you. 
 
JACKSON: Thanks, Erica.
 
HILL: Coming up, one more thing. Hollywood's biggest night, there were a lot of big moments, including the epic performance of the Barbie "I'm Just Ken". We've got a live report from Hollywood on the Oscars.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: Ryan Gosling's Ken, just one of the moments getting a lot of attention this morning from the Oscars telecasting his (inaudible) Love, of course, from movie Barbie. This year's Academy Awards provided some glitz and glamour. And actor John Cena's nearly naked streak as he presented the award for Best Costume.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMMY KIMMEL, HOST: What's going on? You're supposed to run across the stage. JOHN CENA, WRESTLER AND ACTOR: I changed my mind. I don't want to use
 
 a streaker bit. 
 
KIMMEL: What do you mean you don't want to do the streaker bit anymore? We're doing it.
 
CENA: Costumes, they are so important. Maybe the most important thing there is. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: That or a solid trainer at the gym. Both could be helpful in that instance. That moment also paid homage, by the way, to an incident nearly 50 years ago when a real streaker actually dashed across the Oscar stage. 
 
Joining us now from Los Angeles, CNN Entertainment Correspondent Elizabeth Wagmeister. Great to have you here especially because I know you've probably had very little sleep. So, I love you pulling together all of the big moments for us. What really stood out to you last night?
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT: I love that John Cena moment, and you are right. He definitely has a solid trainer here. But, the big moments, it was a major night for "Oppenheimer". Of course, this film was the big winner, went into the night with 13 nominations and came out taking home seven statues. This includes first time Oscars for director Christopher Nolan, for Robert Downey Jr. and Cillian Murphy, and the film taking home the biggest award of the night, which of course is Best Picture. 
 
Now, the biggest shocker of the night was in the category of Best Actress. Lily Gladstone was expected to win. She stars in "Killers of the Flower Moon". She had been winning a ton throughout award season and had a lot of buzz. But, Emma Stone got some buzz later for her role in "Poor Things". Of course, Emma Stone was excellent in this film, but this was a big shock. Even Emma Stone was shocked. Let's take a look at her acceptance speech.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EMMA STONE, ACTRESS: The women on the stage, you are all incredible. And the women in this category, Sondra, Annette, Carrie, Lily, I share this with you. I am in awe of you. And it has been such an honor to do all of this together. I hope we get to keep doing more together.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WAGMEISTER: You can really tell in the room because I was in the theater that Emma Stone was truly shocked. You saw her face there on TV. But, you could tell during that acceptance speech that she could not believe it. By the way, this is her second Oscar, and "Poor Things", the film for which she won, also was a big winner of the night, taking home for awards, Erica.
 
HILL: It is really something. She referenced her fellow nominees and also the women on the stage was interesting the way that they brought so many past winners out as they were in doing some introductions, which was kind of a nice change I thought this year. I know you actually sat down with Jimmy Kimmel. You interviewed him a little bit before the show leading up to it. How do you think he did?
 
WAGMEISTER: Jimmy is getting rave reviews this morning. There is a reason why he came back for the fourth time. I joked with Jimmy when I interviewed him. I said, can anyone else in this town host this show? And he said, I think they're all just smarter than me because they declined the offer, and I'm the only one who says, yes. But, he got a ton of laughs last night in the room. When I interviewed him, I asked if politics would take center stage, and he said he didn't think that it would become a huge part of the show unless something happened. Well, guess what? Something happened. Former President Donald Trump posted on Truth Social, taking a jab or two or three at Jimmy for his hosting skills, and Jimmy couldn't resist reacting. Let's take a look at that moment. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KIMMEL: Thank you for watching. I'm surprised you're ah -- isn't it past your jail time?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WAGMEISTER: Everyone in the room was shocked when Jimmy said that he really went there. 
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
But, if you watch his late night show, it really shouldn't come as a surprise. Donald Trump is one of his most frequent targets. And he told us in our interview that it really brings him a lot of pleasure to be able to make fun of him in the comedic ways that he does. But, Jimmy Kimmel, again, getting rave reviews. It'll be interesting to see the ratings when those come in later today because the show started an hour earlier. They did this in an effort so the show wouldn't run late because the Oscars infamously always runs over time and ends very late. But, Jimmy Kimmel was a bit nervous when we spoke to him. Are people going to know when to tune in? So, we're standing by to wait on those ratings, Erica.
 
HILL: We will be watching for those. We know that you'll bring them to us. Elizabeth, good to have you here this morning. Thank you. 
 
All right. We know your time is money. Thank you for spending some time with us this morning. I'm Erica Hill in New York. Be sure to stick with CNN. One World is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)