Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Hurricane Ernesto Knocks Out Power to Half of Puerto Rico; Interview with Sen. Chris Coons (D-DE): Kamala Harris Policy Speech Friday; Disney Claims Widower Can't Sue Because He Signed up for Disney+. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired August 14, 2024 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Right now, half of Puerto Rico is without power. One in 10 are without water and nearly all the U.S. Virgin Islands have gone dark, As Hurricane Ernesto lashes the Caribbean. CNN's Chad Myers is live in the CNN Weather Center for us tracking the storm.
 
So Chad, where is Ernesto right now?
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Maybe if we kind of average it out about 200 miles northwest of San Juan, Puerto Rico. So we're going to get a new update here around 5 o'clock. So that will help things out a little bit for where it exactly is.
 
But it was very windy at St. Kitts and St. Thomas, St. Croix, even the islands there east of Puerto Rico, almost 86 mile per hour gusts there. 
 
But look at this. This is six hours of radar for Puerto Rico. Hour after hour of training thunderstorms over the same places causing flash flood warnings. And that's what was causing all of those water -- drinking water issues. 
 
Here you go. This is where it's going to go though from here to Bermuda as a category two, possibly even a category three for a time. We'll see. The water is very warm.
 
This is certainly a possibility. Could it get stronger? Absolutely. Will it? Yes, likely. But where does it go after that?
 
Well, here's where the models are thinking it's going and right under that M is Bermuda. So very close to the right side of the eyewall on this one model. There are many models out there to choose from. So we'll kind of spread it around a little bit. 
 
Here's a wave model. If you're up and down the East Coast this weekend, there will be huge waves, dangerous surf here on the East Coast. Waves that don't look like the Atlantic Ocean whatsoever. So stay out of the water because it's going to be one of those rip current kind of weekends. 
 
Here's another model. This is when I showed you about 1:30 or so where it was taking it into Nova Scotia after it left Bermuda. Well now the newest run as promised is in no longer hitting Nova Scotia, but a very close pass to Newfoundland. So yes, this thing still could get a little bit stronger and make its way at least toward the North Atlantic Coast, not the U.S. coast. 
 
But right now it is a healthy storm getting stronger. Hurricane Hunter will be in it in just an hour or two -- Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: Look forward to that update. Chad Myers, thank you so much -- Jessica.
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN HOST: Now to some other headlines we are watching at this hour. Cases of a common respiratory virus that dwindled in the pandemic on the rise again. That's according to the CDC. the parvovirus B19, which is also known as fifth disease is spread by respiratory droplets and people and jobs with close contact with children such as schools and daycares tend to be at higher risks.
 
Also North Korea will reportedly reopen its borders to limited international tourism in December. That decision announced today by two tour companies with connections to the country and it comes nearly five years after North Korea shut down due to the coronavirus pandemic. North Korean state media has not confirmed the reopening but leader Kim Jong-un had previously indicated he would prioritize visitors from, quote, friendly nations. 
 
And DEA agents in Atlanta just made the largest-ever meth bust in the city and the third largest nationwide this year. Our affiliate WSB reporting agents seized more than 2,300 pounds of the drug which were hidden in a load of celery headed to a farmers market. Authorities say the drugs were smuggled into the state by a Mexican drug cartel. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
Still ahead, the candidates make their case on the economy. First up former president Donald Trump taking the stage just a few minutes from now. Stay with CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: As poll after poll shows, the top issue for voters in this election is the economy. And how the presidential candidates handle the economy may soon come into better focus. We're looking at a stage in Asheville, North Carolina, live pictures right now where in roughly 20 minutes, presidential nominee Donald Trump will deliver remarks on the economy.
 <br>[15:40:05]
 
His opponent, Vice President Kamala Harris, is expected to also roll out her economic policies in North Carolina, but on Friday.
 
Let's discuss with the co-chair of the Harris Walz campaign, Senator Chris Coons, Democrat from Delaware. Senator, thank you so much for sharing an afternoon with us. Polling also repeatedly shows that one of the Biden administration's biggest liabilities going into this reelection effort has been the economy, affordability and inflation.
 
How do you think Vice President Harris has to differentiate herself, her policies on this issue?
 
SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE), HARRIS CAMPAIGN CO-CHAIR: Well, thanks for a chance to be on, Boris. First, I think that Vice President Harris can take credit for one of the biggest accomplishments of the Biden-Harris administration, which was the Inflation Reduction Act provision that allows for the negotiation of prescription drug prices. 
 
We've capped insulin at $35 a month. Out-of-pocket expenses will be capped at $2,000 starting next year. And the cost of prescription drugs are coming down for the most expensive drugs for millions of Americans. That's a significant driver and something I'm not confident former President Trump would support or wouldn't roll back.
 
There's also generally very good economic numbers. 16 million jobs created, 800,000 in manufacturing, the longest, lowest unemployment of our lifetimes, and the newest numbers on inflation show that inflation is below 3 percent for the first time in many, many years. I do think that the Vice President will show a continued commitment to growing our economy from the bottom up and the middle out and make some new proposals.
 
I'm looking forward to her remarks at the convention in Chicago next week and to hearing what she has to say on the stage in North Carolina. I expect it to be a continuation of the pro-worker, pro- family, pro-opportunity agenda of the Biden-Harris administration.
 
SANCHEZ: There's certainly no denying, though, Senator, that the cost, for example, of owning and renting a home has gone up. The cost of everyday items has increased. And for many folks, including -- We just had a story we highlighted today. Folks that are receiving Social Security, the same dollar for them doesn't go nearly as far. So how does she need to craft a different narrative around the economy that incorporates the strain that so many Americans are feeling despite some of the positive numbers you laid out?
 
COONS: Well, Boris, first, it's meeting people where they are, recognizing that the recovery from the badly mishandled pandemic has been slow and long and difficult, reminding people that it's the former president who badly mishandled that pandemic, that the economic chaos and the job loss that resulted and the high inflation that resulted from our recovery from that pandemic is not her responsibility. 
 
But that hearing the ongoing concerns and costs that people from senior citizens to young folks trying to get their first apartment or home, she has to have concrete proposals for dealing with housing costs, and she does.
 
The Biden-Harris administration has been working hard at improving the affordability of housing in the United States, and that's something I expect we'll hear even more from Vice President Harris about this week and in the weeks ahead. SANCHEZ: We're also expecting to hear more from the vice president on foreign policy and explicitly defining her view of the United States' role in the world, including in Gaza. And on that issue, she has to balance messaging to several constituencies. I'm wondering how tricky you think that is as an issue for her to navigate as a candidate. How would you advise her?
 
COONS: Well, she's got great experience both in the Senate, where we served together, and as vice president the last three and a half years. She's met with over 100 heads of state along with President Biden and has been in the room for some of the most important negotiations about expanding NATO, about building new partnerships in the Indo-Pacific. 
 
And as you mentioned, Boris, I do think balancing strong support for Israel and for the right of self-defense as we all wait and wonder whether Iran will take another strike at Israel, balancing that with concerns about civilian casualties and the ongoing costs of the war in Gaza will be an important balance point for her. 
 
I continue to believe that President Biden's proposal, which was ratified by the U.N. Security Council, by the G7, for a ceasefire and a hostage exchange holds open the best prospect for bringing an end to the conflict in Gaza. It's something I know President Biden's working hard on, his whole senior national security and foreign policy team, and I remain hopeful that the negotiations with the Egyptians, the Qataris, Hamas, and Israel will yet bear fruit.
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
It's been 312 days, and, Boris, there's far too many families, Americans among them, still waiting for the return of their loved ones being held hostage beneath Gaza. 
 
SANCHEZ: Senator, if she were to win the White House, you've been seen as a potential Secretary of State, as a strong candidate, given your service on the Foreign Relations Committee in the Senate. Have you spoken with her about serving in the Cabinet? Would you consider accepting a role like that?
 
COONS: No. That would be very premature, Boris. I appreciate the implicit compliment, but what matters is working hard together to make sure that we win this November, that there's a Democratic majority in the Senate, that Vice President Harris and Governor Walz are the next president and vice president. There's plenty of time for conversations like that after the election. We have not discussed it beforehand. 
 
I do think that having traveled with her overseas and gotten to see and hear the vice president's strength and skills and ability in diplomacy and national security policy, I very much look forward to a Harris-Walz administration and to the positive difference they could make in the world.
 
SANCHEZ: Senator, one quick question. Politico is reporting that President Biden does harbor some frustration, is the word that they use, toward members of his own party that he believes pushed him out of the presidential race. Obviously, you are close with President Biden.
 
Has he shared anything with you regarding his feelings and his decision to step aside from the race? Have you spoken to him about that?
 
COONS: We spoke quite a bit over the last month, but most recently on Monday of this week. And President Biden was positive, was looking forward, was weighing what he can get done in the next five months. On Monday, he was very much looking forward to the Cancer Moonshot event in Tulane.
 
He's looking forward to speaking to the convention in Chicago this coming week. The First Lady has a bold initiative around women's health and continues to be an advocate for educational opportunity and access. The Bidens, as a couple, continue to support our military families.
 
And there's important work left to be done on the world stage. There will be a new Prime Minister in Japan in just a few weeks. And the relationship between South Korea, Japan, and the United States is the strongest it's ever been. The AUKUS partnership for providing nuclear submarines to Australia is a critical, groundbreaking new partnership. 
 
I think you'll see President Biden looking forward, working to make a difference on the world stage and here at home. And I very much look forward to supporting him in that work in the remaining months of his term this year.
 
SANCHEZ: Senator Chris Coons, appreciate the time, sir. Thanks for joining us. 
 
COONS: Thank you, Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: Still ahead, a woman dies after an allergic reaction at a Disney Springs restaurant. But now Disney says that a wrongful death suit should be thrown out because her widower signed up for Disney+. We'll discuss with a legal expert in just moments.
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
DEAN: A new legal hurdle for a man who filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Disney over the death of his wife. She died last October from a severe allergic reaction after eating at a restaurant in Disney Springs where he says the waiter guaranteed the couple that certain foods could be made allergen free. Now Disney is trying to get the case dismissed and sent to arbitration based on terms he agreed to years ago when he signed up for a free one month trial of Disney+.
 
The company also claims it should be shielded based on the man using one of its websites to buy tickets to Epcot. 
 
Joining us now is defense attorney, Misty Marris. Misty, I'm pretty sure nobody thinks when they sign up for Disney+, a free one month trial that they're signing their rights away to a jury trial if something goes wrong. Is that normal?
 
MISTY MARRIS, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: It's absolutely a very novel legal argument, Jessica. This is something that Disney is looking to do because they want to keep this out of the courtroom and before a jury. Arbitration is often a venue that's seen as more favorable to the defendant, especially with a sympathetic case like this where you have someone who died from an allergic reaction, have it before a judge behind closed doors.
 
But look, when I went through this Disney agreement and I read it in anticipation of this story and covering it with you today, it relates directly to the app. Remember, these are contracts. A reasonable person is not going to think that signing up for Disney+, is going to take away any right when they're physically in one of the Disney parks.
 
And that's going to be part and parcel of the plaintiff's argument. Not to look at just the arbitration agreement that's in here, the contractual language, but to look at it in total in context with the other provisions of this agreement when you sign up for the application. So those are what the arguments are going to be on both sides.
 
DEAN: Yes, and so how do you think this ends? Do you think Disney will be forced to pay the $50,000, the other damages to this man? Do you think, I guess first they're going to have to settle if it can go into arbitration or not?
 
MARRIS: Exactly, so that's the threshold issue. Does this go into the courtroom in front of a jury and a jury makes a determination about liability? That means looking into all of the facts. Was Disney negligent? Or is it going to go before an arbitrator? 
 
My guess is that any judge looking at this, compelling that arbitration agreement is going to say it's not conscionable to think that somebody signing up for the app, hitting those buttons, I know you've done it, I've done it, we've all done it, is aware that they're going to sign all of their rights away for any and all lawsuits relating to that company and all of its affiliates by doing so.
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
They're going to say it's more likely that that relates to non- payment, cancellations of subscriptions, things directly related to that app. 
 
Think about another scenario. What if somebody was injured while on a ride? They're now precluded from exercising their rights. It just doesn't make sense. And at the end of the day, contract law has to make sense. There are arguments relating to that. 
 
So I think we're going to see this before a jury and we're going to learn a lot about the facts of the case.
 
DEAN: Yes, we sure are. All right, Misty Marris, thank you for breaking it down for us. We appreciate it. MARRIS: Thank you. 
 
DEAN: And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
DEAN: If Chanel No. 5, White Diamonds by Elizabeth Taylor, Calvin Klein One, these are iconic fragrances.
 
SANCHEZ: And now, Parfum de Mayonnaise.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILL LEVIS, TENNESSEE TITANS QUARTERBACK: Luscious. Eggy.
 
Smell. Mighty greatness. Will Levis, No. 8, Parfum de Mayonnaise.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: That's Tennessee Titans quarterback Will Levis in a new ad for the mayo-inspired fragrance, Will Levis, No. 8. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
He partnered with condiments brand Hellman's. Each bottle is about eight bucks. And according to the company, the fragrance notes include tart lemon, parsley, coffee undertones, musk, creamy vanilla and what is described as mayonnaise. Accord like us, you may be thinking, why?
 
DEAN: Why? Well this got some attention when he joked he puts mayo in his coffee last year. Also questions about that. When his partnership with Hellman's began the fragrance is already sold out. I like when he goes --
 
SANCHEZ: It's pretty spot-on for some of these ads. 
 
Thanks so much for being with us. "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now. Enjoy your mayo.