Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel Defense Forces Fires Two Over Strikes That Killed Aid Workers; U.S. Preparing For Significant Attack By Iran On U.S. Or Israeli Assets; Ecuadorian Police Forcibly Entered Mexico's Embassy; Taiwan Earthquake Death Toll Rises To 13; Total Eclipse Of The Sun On Monday. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired April 06, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Welcome to all of you watching from around the world. I'm Anna Coren, live from Hong Kong. 
 
Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, Israel's preliminary investigation into the death of seven aid workers in Gaza finds internal failure is in the chain of command. What world leaders are calling for as Israel deals with the fallout.
 
And Russia launched a new series of missile strikes in Eastern Ukraine. Now one aid group says its office in Donetsk is destroyed. 
 
Plus diplomacy between Ecuador and Mexico is breaking down following a police raid on the Mexican embassy in Quito just hours ago. What we know about the situation right now.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
COREN: The charity World Central Kitchen is reacting to Israel's investigation into the drone strike that killed seven of its aid workers. In a report released on Friday, Israel admitted its own decision-making procedures were violated and fired two of the officers involved. 
 
The deaths of the aid workers prompted the charity to withdraw from Gaza for the time being. 
 
After the IDF report was released, World Central Kitchen said in a statement, quote, "We demand the creation of an independent commission to investigate the killings of our WCK colleagues. The IDF cannot credibly investigate its own failure in Gaza." 
 
The head of one group, a former CNN correspondent, Arwa Damon, told us that the strike has shocked her and other aid workers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ARWA DAMON, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, INARA: It was very unnerving and it's really jarring to be on the ground as a humanitarian, wanting to go and provide assistance and food and medicine all sorts of other things that the population here just because they (INAUDIBLE). 
 
And to have that in the pit of your stomach of, am I going to be targeted?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: In the wake of the aid workers' deaths, Israel says it's opening a new crossing to allow more aid into Gaza. It also plans to allow aid to go through the Israeli port of Ashdod. 
 
Well, Norway's top diplomat believes the report hardly makes Israel look good. He attended a NATO meeting on Thursday, when the alliance marked its 75th anniversary. The minister said the report only shows how easy it is for Israel to open fire when it suspects someone is a terrorist, even when evidence is weak. 
 
And he said NATO countries are starting to lose patience with Israel. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ESPEN BARTH EIDE, NORWEGIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: Yesterday I was together with most of my Western foreign minister colleague at the NATO meeting in Brussels. And I could really feel that the frustration, even among those who have been most supportive of Israel until now is that this is really going too far. 
 
So something is moving here when it comes to not whether Israel has the right to defend itself, which it has but they have been doing it for almost six months now. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: CNN's Nada Bashir joins us now from London with more.
 
Nada, there is this growing international pressure on Israel to allow an independent investigation into the killing of these humanitarian aid workers, from the families and from governments. 
 
Is this likely to happen?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: They're mounting pressure also growing frustration even from some of Israel's closest allies. And of course, these are seven aid workers who've been killed amongst some more than 33,000 people. Many of them civilians, of course, the majority of them civilians. 
 
So there is certainly growing pressure here in the United Kingdom. We heard from the prime minister saying that the situation in Gaza is growing increasingly intolerable. 
 
And with regard to the killing of seven World Central Kitchen aid workers there, have been resounding calls for an independent investigation, not least from the World Central Kitchen organization itself but also from international leaders and aid organizations. 
 
And we did hear from the U.N. secretary general, Antonio Guterres, echoing that call for an independent investigation. He said on Friday that there must be meaningful change on the ground, that the issue is that military procedures in place that allow for those mistakes to multiply it time and time again in Gaza. 
 
That fixing those failures requires an independent investigation and meaningful change on the ground. 
 <br>[04:05:02]
 
Now of course, we've also heard from a senior official from the U.N.'s humanitarian affairs office, again, reminding us that this is not an isolated incident, that these seven aid workers from the World Central Kitchen join a list of about 200 aid workers who have been killed in the Palestinian Territories since October 7th. 
 
That figure, of course, the worry is it could rise so long as its war continues. Borders also prompting a significant amount of concern, is the impact that this will have on the humanitarian situation. You heard from Arwa Damon, the fear amongst aid workers who are doing such critical work that they, too, could become a target. 
 
We heard from the World Central Kitchen, saying that they were suspending their operations temporarily due to those security concerns, a U.S. based humanitarian organization, Anera, says that they are also halting their aid missions to Gaza because their staffers fear that they too could be targeted in the Gaza Strip. 
 
Of course, as we know, the humanitarian need in Gaza is so, so desperate. Now, under international pressure, the Israeli government has announced that it will open up another border crossing, will be opening up the Erez border crossing to allow more aid into northern Gaza. 
 
Crucially an area which has seen limited aid getting in and which has been almost entirely destroyed over the course of this war. That crossing is expected to see its first aid shipment arrive on Sunday. 
 
But of course, the fear is that this will not be enough. We've heard from the E.U.'s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell here, so that this will not be enough to alleviate starvation in Gaza. 
 
And important to remember the logistical challenges that we're talking about. Here, parts of northern central Gaza have been almost entirely destroyed. Distributing aid, transporting aid through these parts of Gaza will be extremely difficult. 
 
And the fear is that this will not happen soon enough in order to prevent Gaza from being pushed deeper and deeper into famine. 
 
And Nada, the region, of course, is bracing itself for retaliatory attacks from Iran after Israel struck its embassy in Syria. 
 
What more are you learning?
 
BASHIR: Absolutely. The U.S. has issued a warning to Iran, according to officials, not to target U.S. military bases. We heard yesterday saying that the Israeli strike in Damascus should not be used as a pretext to attack U.S. personnel and facilities. 
 
That according to a U.S. State Department spokesperson. The warning, of course, sent in response to a warning from Iran for the U.S. not to be pulled into further and deeper into the conflict with Israel. 
 
But of course, there is mounting concern around the situation across the region as we continue to see these incidences and attacks. There are fears that this could trigger and provoke a further escalation beyond the region. We have seen this, of course, sometimes before, particularly early in the year across the southern border of Lebanon. 
 
But certainly mounting concern now that this could lead to an escalation if this is not defused. 
 
COREN: Nada Bashir in London, we appreciate the reporting. Thank you. 
 
Well, sources say the U.S. CIA director and Israel's intelligence chiefs are heading to Egypt over the weekend to continue hostage negotiations in exchange for a ceasefire in Gaza after months without a breakthrough.
 
The meeting comes as Hamas rejects Israel's latest hostage counteroffer. An official close to the discussions says Hamas believes Israel is offering nothing new. 
 
Well, Sunday marks six months since the Hamas terror attacks. One survivor who was held for 51 days is sharing her story with CNN. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AGAM GOLDSTEIN-ALMOG, FORMER ISRAELI HOSTAGE (through translator): I used the words fear, horror, but only the body can understand what I was going through. I went to a place where I have no control on my life, no control on my body, no control what's going to happen to my mom and my brothers. 
 
They took me from a place that had such independence. And I could have any choice. I did sport and I had my own life. They shut me in darkness, take me to the toilet, tell -- asking me constantly what I'm thinking about and asking me not to feel or express any feelings. 
 
There are -- my body felt the horror that my life is in their hands. Every day they can shoot at me and just finished in a second and nobody will know.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
COREN: Meanwhile Hezbollah says that Israel's strike in Syria on Monday was a new milestone and that the expected Iranian response will mark an entirely new phase in the Middle East. 
 
Israel struck Iran's consulate building in Damascus, killing top Iranian commanders. Hezbollah leaders spoke about the strike on Friday when the group marked what it calls Jerusalem Day in Lebanon. CNN's Ben Wedeman has more from Beirut. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Hezbollah's marching band kicks off an event in Beirut marking Yom al- Quds -- or Jerusalem Day -- a day set aside by Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini 45 years ago in support of the Palestinian cause.
 
And while the masked Hezbollah fighters carried the Palestinian flag, when Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah addressed the crowd, the focus was last Monday's Israeli bombing in Syria that killed, among others, two senior commanders of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
 
WEDEMAN: In a speech, Hassan Nasrallah said the response to the Israeli strike on the Iranian consulate in Damascus Monday is coming. He said it is inevitable, he made it clear, that response would be Iranian (ph).
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): And the details of that response, he said, are Iran's concern. Where, how, when, the scope, said Nasrallah, well, that's not our business to ask about or interfere in. That's up to the supreme leader.
 
If Iran strikes back, it would be the first time since the Gaza war erupted that Iran steps out from behind its allies and proxies and attacks Israel directly.
 
For months, Hezbollah, closely aligned with Iran, has been trading fire across the border with Israel. An Iranian strike on Israel would circumvent the middle militia.
 
In Tehran, Iran's supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, paid final respects to the Iranians killed in Damascus. He has vowed revenge.
 
Tens of thousands paraded Friday through the Iranian capital for Jerusalem Day. It's an annual event where the chants and symbols are predictable, as Israel and Iran risk careening from strike to counter- strike to full-blown confrontation. -- Ben Wedeman, CNN, Beirut.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
COREN: At least six people are dead after a new Russian missile strike on Ukraine's second largest city. That's according to Ukrainian police, who say 11 others were injured in Kharkiv on Saturday morning. 
 
The attack damaged apartment buildings and caused at least one fire. It comes a day after Russia launched a so-called double-tap strike on Zaporizhzhya, killing at least three people. 
 
Ukraine says one wave of attacks drew first responders to the scene before they were hit by a second wave 40 minutes later; 19 people were injured, including two Ukrainian journalists. There's no word yet if first responders are among the victims. Ukraine has reportedly launched its own back-to-back strikes targeting
 
 Russian airfields. Ukrainian sources say the attacks went after military airports in Russia's Saratov and Krasnodar regions on Friday, which came on the heels of similar strikes on an airfield in the Rostov region. 
 
One source told CNN at least six Russian fighter jets were destroyed and about 20 service members killed or wounded. We cannot independently confirm those claims. Russia says it shot down dozens of Ukrainian drones in those regions but it's not saying anything about the airfields. 
 
The humanitarian group Doctors without Borders is putting some of its operations on hold after its office took a missile hit in Ukraine. The group says five people were wounded in the city of Pokrovsk on Friday, including one of its staff members. 
 
Its medical work in the Donetsk region is now suspended except for emergency care and ambulance services. The city is located near the front line and is a regular target for Russia. 
 
Well, Mexico says it's breaking diplomatic relations with Ecuador. This comes after police in the capital, Quito, entered the Mexican embassy and arrested Ecuador's former vice president. 
 
Mexico says it was a refugee who was seeking asylum. Ecuador says the former vice president had been sentenced to prison. CNN shot this video a short time ago outside the Mexican embassy. In part of it, you can see a police officer with a weapon.
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
Standing atop a wall around the embassy. Mexico says it's immediately removing all diplomatic personnel from Ecuador. 
 
Well, it could be a very lucrative weekend for Donald Trump. The former president will be the guest of honor at an exclusive fundraiser that could bring tens of millions of dollars into his campaign coffers. Those details next on CNN. 
 
And it wasn't the big one but an earthquake did rock the northeastern United States on Friday. We'll bring you details on one of the strongest quakes to hit the region in many years.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
COREN: Donald Trump's legal team is once again pushing to have the judge in his New York criminal trial removed from the case. 
 
In a memo made public Friday, the former president's lawyers argued that Trump's status as the presumptive Republican nominee changes the dynamics that were in place when Judge Juan Merchan denied the request for recusal last year. 
 
The filing also claimed Judge Merchan should recuse himself because of his daughter's political connections to the Democratic candidates. Trump has pleaded not guilty to charges that he falsified business records related to $130,000 hush money payment made to adult film star Stormy Daniels before the 2016 election. 
 
Donald Trump is on track to raise a hefty sum of money at his first major fundraiser since becoming the Republican Party's presumptive presidential nominee. A source says it's already raised around $43 million; 100 people are expected to attend the high-dollar fundraiser for the former president in Palm Beach, Florida, tonight. 
 
Prices to attend range from $250,000 per person for those who serve on the host committee to more than $814,000 per person to serve as chairman. Those who contribute at the top level can sit at Trump's dinner table.
 
Millions across the northeastern United States were left stunned and a rattled on Friday after a 4.8 magnitude earthquake could be felt from Washington, D.C., all the way up to Maine. 
 
It's a rare event for the region, causing unaccustomed East Coasters, including Lady Liberty, to assume it was initially a passing freight train before realizing it was something more. 
 
Friday's earthquake was the third largest recorded in the area in the last half century and the strongest in New Jersey in more than 240 years. Well, that's according to the U.S. Geological Survey. 
 
Authorities in Taiwan have raised the death toll in Wednesday's earthquake to 13. Three bodies were found on a walking trail in the rugged, mountainous region in the past 24 hours. 
 
Rescue teams in Taiwan are gradually reaching some of the 400 people still stranded in remote areas. 
 <br>[04:20:02]
 
Cut off by damaged roads and landslides. Bad weather has hampered some of the rescue efforts. 
 
Dozens of buildings in Hualien County are damaged and officials say some will need to be demolished in the coming weeks. These residents were allowed back into their homes for about 20 minutes on Friday to retrieve their belongings. The community is beginning to pick up the pieces. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I feel it's only after arriving at the scene that one realizes how truly small humans are in the face of nature, especially following a natural disaster. 
 
This building, being nearly 50 years old, has also reached the end of its lifespan. COREN (voice-over): Officials say the 7.4 magnitude quake was the
 
 strongest to hit Taiwan in a quarter of a century. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: The U.S. Treasury Secretary announced new talks with China focused on balanced economic growth between the two nations. Janet Yellen is in China right now as part of her second visit to the country with the Biden administration. She met with the Chinese vice premier in Guangzhou earlier. 
 
Yellen says the new initiatives will advance the interests of American workers and firms. The Treasury Secretary also raised U.S. concerns about China's trade with Russia. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JANET YELLEN, U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY: China has emphasized that it is their policy not to provide Russia with military support, that neither of us want this to be an issue in our bilateral relationship. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, Yellen says she spent two hours discussing the issue of China's production overcapacity with the vice premier on Saturday. The Treasury Secretary says she believes Beijing understood this as an important issue for the U.S. 
 
Just ahead, Mother Nature may throw a curve ball ahead of Monday's total solar eclipse. The last forecast coming up.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
COREN: As eclipse chasers are crowding into the path of totality for Monday's total solar eclipse, one small Texas town is rolling out the welcome mat, grilling meat, playing music and selling plenty of merchandise. 
 
And though the weather forecasts may be dicey, the crowds are coming, clouds or not. CNN's Rosa Flores takes us to the town of Bandera. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome to Bandera, you guys. 
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's the cowboy capital of the world.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Lots of Western bands and good dancing.
 
FLORES: Bandera, Texas, is in the path of totality for Monday's solar eclipse. The town is expected to experience more than four minutes of darkness.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Rosa, I know you're over there but I can't see you.
 
FLORES: I can't see you.
 
Eclipse-mania has taken hold of Bandera. Horses and dinosaurs are donning eclipse glasses. Even eyewear for a giant cowboy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One monster eclipse party.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are downtown Bandera, Texas. Behind this here is the courthouse.
 
FLORES: Bandera's population of under 1,000 --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody knows everybody.
 
FLORES: -- it is expected to quadruple Monday, says the mayor.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There were some folks from China in 11th Street last night, all over the place.
 <br>[04:25:03]
 
FLORES: At 11th Street cowboy bar, the meat --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Medium rare.
 
FLORES: -- and greet is about the eclipse.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We drove 1,700 miles.
 
FLORES: Seventeen hundred miles to see the eclipse?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
FLORES: These two friends caravan from Pennsylvania.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I've been preparing. I bought a camper. I bought a Jeep. I did everything.
 
FLORES: You bought a camper for the eclipse?
 
I hear that it might storm in Bandera.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, it's going to be a beautiful day.
 
FLORES: Are we doing positive thinking about this?
 
Positive thinking. It's not just Bandera's cowgirls praying for good weather. Millions are expected to flock to Texas and more than a dozen U.S. states in the celestial path of totality. Some officials are worried about traffic jams.
 
And who's this? UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is Wooster.
 
FLORES: In Bandera, cowgirls solved that problem
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm going to jump on Wooster and I'm going to ride by everybody. And I do my little princess wave even.
 
FLORES: Eclipse mania expected to add $6 billion to the U.S. economy in one estimate. Texas, a slice of the astronomical pie, $1.4 billion. The eclipse merchandise in Bandera --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They sold like that.
 
FLORES: -- is practically sold out.
 
Well, this is beautiful country, Alec,
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, ma'am.
 
FLORES: So are venues like the historic Dixie Dude Ranch.
 
And when did you start getting calls about the eclipse?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Our first reservation for the eclipse was in 2017. I think we sold out completely about four years ago.
 
FLORES: What never runs out here are the good people --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And a Moon Pie.
 
FLORES: Moon Pie?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's the eclipse.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
FLORES: For the eclipse. Thank you.
 
And the good times.
 
Some of those good times in Bandera happen on a horse. There are thousands of people who are expected to be here for the big day on Monday. And a lot of people are worried about the weather. They're worried about cloud cover. Not here Monday or they're going to have a good time anyway -- Rosa Flores, CNN, Bandera, Texas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
COREN: Rosa certainly looks like she's having a good time. Yes, only two more days until the highly anticipated total solar eclipse. But millions may find their view of the sky-high spectacle obstructed on Monday. 
 
Aside from New England, patches of completely clear skies will be few and far between along the path of totality. And some bad news for eclipse chasers heading to the Southern Plains.
 
 Severe storms are forecast across parts of Texas and Arkansas. They'll hopefully come after the eclipse but could be a hazard to travelers. 
 
Channel more of that positive thinking. Join us Monday for the total solar eclipse as it travels from Mexico across America and into Canada. Our special coverage starts at 12 p eastern in the U.S. That's 5 p in London 
 
And that wraps up this hour of CNN NEWSROOM. Thanks so much for your company. I'm Anna Coren. "INSIDE AFRICA" is next. And then I'll be back at the top of the hour with more from CNN NEWSROOM.