Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Intercepted Messages From Hamas Leader; Hunter Biden Found Guilty On Federal Gun Charges; U.S. Tracks Russian Warships; Migrants Struggle Along Deadliest Route on U.S.-Mexico Border; Jury Orders Chiquita to Pay $38.8 Million to Families of Eight AUC Victims; British Politician Nigel Farage Has Objects Thrown at Him Again; Animal Rights Group Vandalizes King Charles Portrait. Aired 2-2:45a ET

Aired June 12, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:24]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and to everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Just ahead. Hamas response to the latest ceasefire deal, while its military leader is reportedly caught saying we have the Israelis right where we want them.
 
A federal jury hands down guilty verdicts the Hunter Biden on all three counts against him, making him the first child of a sitting U.S. president to be convicted of a crime.
 
And Russian warships including a nuclear-powered submarine, passing by the coast of Florida. Details on where they're headed and why the U.S. is closely following their movements.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Lyinda Kinkade.
 
KINKADE: Well, the fate of the latest proposal for a ceasefire in Gaza remains unclear at this hour, as mediators plan to study a response from Hamas, the one that Israel officials described as a rejection. One issue for Israel could be amendments demanded by Hamas, which one source says involves a timeline for a permanent ceasefire and the complete Israeli withdrawal from Gaza.
 
Hamas says its response opens the door to an agreement, but that remains to be seen. Earlier, Israel appeared poised to formally sign up for the ceasefire plan while still maintaining the freedom to keep fighting. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in the Middle East on a diplomatic push to secure a deal. On Tuesday, he said, Hamas is the one obstacle standing in the way of a ceasefire.
 
U.S. intelligence suggests that Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar believes his group has the upper hand in negotiations with Israel. US officials say Sinwar "believes he's winning." It's a discouraging assessment for negotiators trying to pursue a deal to end the fighting in Gaza. CNN's Kylie Atwood has the details
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: A high stakes life and death waiting game heats up in the Middle East. Hamas has responded to the latest cease fire proposal from Israel, but more talks are now expected as an effort to set peace into motion.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: I don't think anyone other than the Hamas leadership in Gaza actually are the ones who can make decisions. That's what we're waiting on.
 
ATWOOD: Secretary of State Antony Blinken who's traveling in the region, said that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reaffirmed his commitment to the current deal on the table that was detailed in a speech 11 days ago by President Biden. The pressure now increasingly on one man alone who started this war and could end it. Yahya Sinwar, the military leader of Hamas.
 
Sinwar helped mastermind the horrific October 7th attacks and is suspected to be hiding out in the tunnels under Gaza. Exactly where is unknown. A fresh report out today from the Wall Street Journal details messages between Sinwar and Hamas officials participating in the ceasefire talks in Doha. The exchanges show that the terrorist leader thinks he may have the upper hand in the current negotiations.
 
"We have the Israelis right where we want them." Sinwar allegedly said in recent messages. These stunning messages, which CNN cannot independently verify, reveal his frame of mind as this war drives into its ninth month with the Palestinian death toll climbing, Sinwar wrote, "these are necessary sacrifices" and this is why U.S. officials believe Sinwar has had little incentive to broker a deal.
 
Not only will Israel refuse to stop fighting, but the pressure will continue to mount on Israel daily, which Sinwar believes is to his benefit. The Israeli military responded to these messages saying, "Hamas, leaders don't care about Gazans. How many times do they have to say it for themselves before the world believes them?" And as Blinken continues to push for a deal that could eventually end the war, he took aim at Sinwar.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLINKEN: Are they looking after one guy who may be for now safe, buried, I don't know, 10 storeys underground somewhere in Gaza, while the people that he purports to represent continue to suffer in a crossfire of his own making or will he do what's necessary to actually move this to a better place?
 
Kylie Atwood, CNN, Tel Aviv.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: In the West Bank, the Israel Defense Forces say troops conducted a counterterror raid killing four terrorists. The IDF says forces exchanged fire with people inside a building known to house terrorists. The Palestinian health ministry says six people mostly aged in their 20s were killed.
 <br>[02:05:05]
 
Hunter Biden, the son of Joe Biden is now the first child of a sitting U.S. President to be found guilty of a crime after his conviction on three federal felony gun charges. The president embraced his son after landing in Delaware hours after Tuesday's verdict. The jury deliberated for less than three hours, concluding that Hunter Biden violated laws meant to prevent those suffering from substance abuse from buying or owning a firearm.
 
But despite the historic nature of the case, members of the jury told CNN politics never came told CNN that politics never came into play in their deliberations, with some saying they have no choice but to find Hunter Biden guilty after reviewing the evidence.
 
CNN's Kayla Tausche has more on President Biden's reaction to his son's conviction.
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: After Hunter Biden was convicted by a jury of three felony gun charges, President Biden responding, first and foremost, as a father, releasing a statement that said this. As I said last week, I am the president, but I'm also a dad. Jill and I love our son and we are so proud of the man he is today. So many families who have had loved ones battle addiction understand the feeling of pride, seeing someone you love come out the other side and be so strong and resilient in recovery.
 
Now, the timing of the news putting the president in an awkward situation. He had a previously scheduled engagement to deliver remarks heralding a crackdown on gun violence in the wake of a bipartisan gun safety law that he passed with Congress two years ago. In those remarks, the President was expected to praise the Department of Justice for charging more than 500 new gun crimes based on that law.
 
Instead, he chose to take a broader approach, just praising the new tools that prosecutors are armed with. The president saying in that statement before that he would respect the judicial process as his son Hunter considers an appeal. The family gathering in Wilmington, Delaware, where the President touched down unexpectedly after that verdict. They greeted each other on the tarmac, shared some embraces, and then Hunter embraced White House staff and some members of the security detail.
 
President Biden giving a kiss to Beau Biden, Hunter's toddler son. The family now retreating to t the family home in Wilmington to process what happens in the next chapter with the Biden reelection campaign telling allies it's expected to be business as usual.
 
Kayla Tausche, CNN, the White House.
 
KINKADE: Well, G7 leaders are arriving in Italy on the eve of the annual summit. Guests will include Ukraine's president and Pope Francis. Some of the top priorities will be talks in global development, the wars between Israel and Hamas and Russia's war in Ukraine. U.S. officials say President Joe Biden will hold a news conference with Ukrainians President Zelenskyy in Italy. The U.S. is pushing fellow G7 members for an agreement that would provide $50 billion in loans to Ukraine using profits from Frozen Russian assets.
 
Well, it is the final day of the Ukraine recovery conference in Berlin and Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is calling for more support from European partners for reconstruction efforts. He says, as Ukraine recovers, Europe will benefit as Kyiv is "a big market for your technology." However, one thing that threatens European aid to Ukraine is the rise of far-right parties. CNN's Frederick platin asked what the most recent European Parliamentary elections mean for Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Far-right parties that are very close to the Kremlin did very well in those elections, and centrist parties like your own Chancellor Scholz did very poorly. Do you fear that this could hamper your ability to give Ukraine the aid that it needs on a European level? Because, of course, the E.U. needs to -- at least to an extent work as a bloc to do that.
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, GERMAN CHANCELLOR (through translator): The European elections have shown clear results and the majority of citizens support parties that deem it important that Ukraine receives support, not only for Germany, but also when looking at the European Parliament as a whole. It is clear that thinking about the surge of right-wing extremist parties in Germany and elsewhere in Europe.
 
We should make sure that there is a framework that political competition is possible, different opinions are possible, but that parties share a consensus on requirements for democratic states, for social market economies, or liberal economies.
 
PLEITGEN: We are here, obviously at the Ukraine recovery conference but Ukraine would need a lot less recovery if it were able to kick the Russians off Ukrainian territory very quickly. So, isn't it time for the supporters of Ukraine to drastically give Ukraine more weapons? Drastically allow Ukraine to use those weapons wherever Ukraine sees fit and believes they can push the Russians back.
 
And in order to use those weapons, President Zelenskyy, you also will need enough troops to be able to use the weapons. Are you going to be able to mobilize enough soldiers to be able to launch a meaningful counteroffensive and push the Russians off your territory?
 <br>[02:10:10]
 
VOLODYMR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): As the time come that the partners gave us all the weapons systems that is necessary for us to kick out the Russians. The moment has come. As far as mobilization is concerned, I'm having a sober look at it. Our mobilization is ongoing from day one of the war because we've got martial law in effect. I think this issue is present in the society the war. If we want to preserve and keep our state, we'll have to defend it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, thanks to Frederick Pleitgen there. Well, the mayor of Kharkiv is also in Berlin for the recovery conference. He says the situation in his embattled city has been relatively calm now that Ukrainian forces have been able to strike missile launch positions inside Russian territory. Kharkiv is Ukraine's second largest city near the border with Russia and has suffered weeks of heavy Russian bombardment.
 
Last month, U.S. President Joe Biden approved the use of American weapons for limited strikes on military targets inside Russia. Kharkiv's mayor believes it's been a game changer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IHOR TEREKHOV, KHARKIV, UKRAINE MAYOR (through translator): I will say that as far as I know, there were hits in the launchers that were shelling the city of Kharkiv. This is very significant for us and we see that there is a break in the shelling which I think is also connected to the fact that the equipment Kharkiv was being shelled with has been successfully hit.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, three Russian warships and a nuclear-powered submarine are on route to Cuba for military drills. They've been spotted by the U.S. Navy less than 50 kilometers off the coast of Florida. The Russian Navy's newest frigate capable of launching hypersonic missiles and it's part of this Atlantic show force by Russian President Vladimir Putin. And it comes just days after he threatened to supply high tech weapons to enemies of NATO amid heightened tensions over Ukraine.
 
CNN's Matthew Chance reports from Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): These are the first images of the Russian flotilla steaming towards Cuba just 90 miles off the U.S. coast. The Russian defense ministry says the strike group, including a nuclear-powered submarine, the Kazan, armed with modern caliber cruise missiles is practicing the use of high precision weapons. But it's really about Putin flexing his muscles on the international stage.
 
Led by the flagship of Russia's Northern Fleet, the Admiral Gorshkov, which Russia's Defense Ministry says is normally equipped with latest zircon hypersonic missiles. This is meant to deliver a powerful message to Washington. Russian state television has been celebrating the naval deployment placing some of Russia's most powerful vessels in Cuban waters.
 
The American media has been discussing the event. Reports the Russian news anchor claiming the Pentagon has no idea where our submarine is positioned. In fact, U.S. officials are downplaying any threat that Moscow has been signaling displeasure that Washington recently green lighting Ukrainian attacks on Russian territory with U.S.-supplied weapons. Speaking ahead of the Cuban naval visit, Vladimir Putin warned of a possible Russian response.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): If they in the West supply weapons to the zone of combat operations and call for the use of these weapons against our territory, then why do we not have the right to do the same, to mirror these actions? I'm not ready to say that we will do it tomorrow, but we, of course, should think about it.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): elsewhere. Moscow has been stepping up tactical nuclear drills too, staging exercises with neighboring Belarus near the Ukrainian border, Russian tactical nukes delivered from either ground or air can level entire cities, although the Kremlin insists it has no plans at this stage to use them.
 
Matthew Chance, CNN Moscow.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Steve Hall is a CNN National Security Analyst and former CIA chief of Russian operations and he joins us from Essex, Connecticut. Good to have you with us, Steve.
 
STEVE HALL, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Great to be here, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: So right now, a group of Russian warships, including a nuclear-powered submarine, passing off the coast of Florida, heading to Cuba for naval drills. Explain why?
 
HALL: Well, first of all, I think it's important to understand, Lynda, that this is not unprecedented. Cuba and Russia, of course, you know, have a long relationship, you know, dating back to when they were both communist countries. Cuba still technically a communist country.
 <br>[02:15:04]
 
So, this is not highly unusual, but was -- what is interesting is why it's happening and when it's happening. And the messages that Vladimir Putin is trying to send to the United States. I think the first obvious one is that, you know, Putin is extremely displeased, obviously, with the decision by the United States and our NATO allies to allow the Ukrainians to use the weapons that have been provided to them to fight against the Russian invasion that's happening in Ukraine, to actually use those weapons to fire into Russia as a defensive tactic to try to slow the Russian advances and try to stop the invasion.
 
So, on the surface, that is, I think the most obvious reason why Putin is choosing to send this sort of symbolic message to the United States by sending these worships to Cuba.
 
KINKADE: So, these drills, we know are meant to last about five days, and Russia, of course, is in the midst of a years-long war with Ukraine. Is it unusual for a nation at war to send a flotilla of ships this size thousands of miles away for drills? HALL: Well, it depends on who you ask. I would certainly say that the bean counters, the people who are in charge of the budget at the Russian Ministry of Defense are probably asking the same question. Is this really a good time to sail this, you know, small group of ships across the Atlantic, simply to prove a point? So from a financial perspective, and of course, we have to remember that Russia is still under heavy international economic sanctions.
 
It probably doesn't make a whole lot of sense, but for Vladimir Putin, even in a time of war, even when he is stolen process of trying to complete an invasion of Ukraine, even so, he is trying to send a strong message to the United States and to -- and to its NATO allies. And so yes, it's unusual to do it, but I think Vladimir Putin has decided that the message that he wants to send and the thoughts and discussions that he wants to have some control over politically in the United States and elsewhere it's worth it for him.
 
KINKADE: And so, obviously this is happening in an election year. If elected, Trump has said that he would end this war, Russia's war in Ukraine, immediately, within a day. We've heard from Putin who said he'd prefer Biden in the White House because he's more predictable. What would trump do? What can he do to end this war that isn't already being done?
 
HALL: Yes. This is the really interesting part. Vladimir Putin understands the domestic politics in the United States. Understands, of course, that it -- that it's an election year, but more importantly he understands which way the political ties are going. So, even though he said he would prefer Biden, that, of course, isn't true. The U.S. intelligence community has already indicated that. It's quite clear.
 
Common Sense indicates it too that Putin would rather have somebody who is not very fond of NATO, who would walk away from their allies and whose claims to be able to end the war in a day, which, of course, means essentially telling the Russians, yes, you can -- you can have what you've -- what you've taken and trying to convince the Ukrainians just to live with it. So, there's no doubt that Putin wants to try to have -- and prefers to have Trump as the president, and wants to try to influence that situation as much as he can.
 
So, what he's doing is he's providing talking points basically, to the Republican Party in the United States and to a campaigning Donald Trump who wants to be able to say, look, if you're tired of Russian warships off of your own coast, if you're tired of Russian warships so close to Florida, then vote for me, Donald Trump, because I can take care of everything. Don't worry about it. It'll all be fine.
 
Putin knows that that's what Trump is going to do. Putin knows that that's what the Republican Party is talking points are going to be going into this election. And so, he's trying to -- once again, one of the things he's trying to accomplish by this move is to try to influence the flow of politics and the election in the United States again.
 
KINKADE: And Trump, of course, caused outrage when he said he would encourage Russia to attack any NATO member who failed to meet the financial contribution target of two percent of their GDP to that alliance. Should Europe be concerned if Trump is reelected?
 
HALL: Oh, absolutely. I mean, the things that Trump has gone on record of saying, should, concern our European allies quite a bit. The comments that you just alluded to, of course, are horrific. I mean, you know, how can you be an alliance partner and at the same time say, oh, by the way, if I'm not pleased at how these people are paying their bills or how they're addressing the NATO alliance structure, then go ahead and attack and we won't do anything.
 
Article Five, which is, you know, the joint cooperation against an attack -- an attack against one in NATO's attack against all. Trump is basically saying, yes, that's all off the table. It's a centerpiece. It's one of the most critical pieces. So yes, for a number of reasons, military, geopolitical and all sorts of other reasons, the Europeans should be very concerned about a Donald Trump presidency.
 
KINKADE: National security analyst Steve Hall, as always. Good to have your perspective and analysis. Thank you.
 
HALL: Sure. My pleasure.
 
KINKADE: Well, still to come. More than a year into its civil war, the situation in Sudan is growing increasingly dire.
 <br>[02:20:05]
 
Millions of people struggling to survive. We'll have the details in a live interview next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Returning to Sudan now. The United Nations is adding the country's two warring parties to its global list of offenders that harm children. The U.N.'s children and armed conflict reports that Sudan's armed forces are responsible for the killing and naming of children and for attacks on schools and hospitals. The paramilitary group rapid support forces has been added for recruiting children and killing, maiming and raping them.
 
Also, a top U.S. diplomat is warning that parts of Sudan are in famine. The U.S. Special Envoy to Sudan tells Reuters, the only question is, how much famine and how much of the country and for how long. U.N. agency said last month that Sudan was at imminent risk of famine, with about 18 million people acutely hungry, including 3.6 million severely malnourished children.
 
Coming to us now from Lodwar Town, Kenya is Michael Dunford. The U.N. World Food Program's Regional Director for Eastern Africa. Thanks so much for your time today.
 
MICHAEL DUNFORED, REGIONAL DIRECTOR FOR EASTERN AFRICA, U.N. WORLD FOOD PROGRAM: Thank you for having me.
 
KINKADE: So, this civil war in Sudan between these two rival generals has already left tens of thousands of people dead. Over nine million people displaced in a little over a year, and this, of course, is the worst displacement crisis in the world. How would you describe the impact of this war right now?
 
DUNFORD: The war across Sudan is having a devastating effect, both inside the country and across the region. As you've just indicated, over nine million people have been displaced inside the country. Another two have sought refuge in neighboring countries like Chad and South Sudan. We as the World Food Program are severe -- extremely concerned about the severe impact this is having on the food security and malnutrition rates across the country.
 
We are extremely concerned where this is going and what the long-term impact will be on the people of Sudan. 
 
KINKADE: And of course, Michael so much of the world's focus has been on Russia's war in Ukraine and Israel's war in Gaza. Is Sudan the Forgotten crisis?
 
DUNFORD: I don't think it's been forgotten, but it certainly has been neglected, and what we desperately need moment is the full mind of the international community to try and bring an end to the fighting. Without an end to the fighting, there's no way that the World Food Program and others will be able to scale their operations to the levels that are required to prevent the catastrophe that is already starting to take place.
 
KINKADE: And as we've been discussing, a feminism is threatening Sudan. How challenging is it right now to get food in?
 <br>[02:25:02]
 
DUNFORD: This is, without doubt, one of the most complex operations anywhere in the world. We desperately need permissions from all parties to allow us to use every possible corridor coming in, either from Port Sudan itself, and -- all of these channels, it will be extremely --
 
KINKADE: Yes. I think we're having some difficulty with that connection, but we will stay on that that story. Sudan, of course, suffering from famine right now because of that civil war that's been underway for over a year. Michael Dunford in Kenya, we appreciate your time. Thank you. 
 
Well, still to come. We are going to visit one of the deadliest stretches along the U.S.-Mexico border where many migrants are now risking their lives.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. Mexico's president-elect Claudia Sheinbaum met with the U.S. delegation Tuesday. She welcomed White House Security Advisor Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall and U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Ken Salazar. Sheinbaum says trades, security and Immigration were among the issues they discussed. The former Mexico City mayor will officially take over as president in October.
 
Well, that meeting comes as the White House enacts sweeping asylum restrictions. CNN's David Culver spoke with migrants along the U.S.- Mexico border, stranded in remote areas, unaware of the new policy and the long journey ahead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Wow, this is a larger group here. Let's see.
 
CULVER (voice-over): She's asking us if it's much longer to reach asylum. Documents in hand, this family, desperate to find Border Patrol. 
 
CULVER (on camera): They've been walking for three days and obviously, she's very emotional. She says there's no food. There's no anything.
 
CULVER (voice-over): We're in a remote part of the Arizona-Mexico border. Getting here? Not easy. Took us about 2-1/2 hours from Tucson, much of the drive off road with no cell signal. 
 <br>[02:30:05]
 
And yet, as desolate as this part of the border might seem. The trash and clothes littering the gravel tell a different story.
 
We find makeshift encampments where migrants shield themselves from the scorching sun and wait for border patrol to pick them up.
 
CULVER: She said three border patrol passed about a little more than three hours ago and they assume they'd be coming back. However, (ph) they haven't seen them yet.
 
CULVER (voice-over): This family fleeing cartel death threats and kidnappings, we are surprised hearing where they are from -- Mexico. And as we drive on, we meet another. He points us towards an encampment further down.
 
CULVER: They are Mexican? He is saying there is a bunch more that are coming from Mexico and he said, after the election in particular, he felt the motivation to leave fearing the corruption and the lack of work.
 
Just (inaudible) because it is late, getting near sunset. There is a huge encampment, mostly children.
 
CULVER (voice-over): A non-profit set this camp up for migrants who've just crossed.
 
CULVER: They are saying, please wait here, immigration is going to come and get you here, and actually have wi-fi setup.
 
CULVER (voice-over): Most everyone we meet here are Mexican.
 
CULVER: They've been getting a lot of threats and they said it was for the reason of the election, he didn't vote for, as they put it, the candidate who ended up winning.
 
CULVER (voice-over): On June 2, Mexicans voted in local, state and presidential elections. The campaign season proved violent and deadly. CULVER: She says that the reason they left is for reasons of security, which she says as of now, everybody that that we see here is from Mexico.
 
CULVER (voice-over): But they might not be in the U.S. for long. Just days after Mexico's elections, the Biden Administration took executive action on the border, allowing for swift deportation of most migrants after a daily cap is reached. In Nogales, Arizona, we see those deportations up close.
 
CULVER: We counted probably a dozen people altogether. Most of them kids, about eight kids from what we could see, getting off that bus and border patrol agents then escorting them directly to the border. And they'll continue walking them over right into Mexico.
 
What do you think of this executive order? Is that going to do anything?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, it only took him what, three years and seven months?
 
CULVER (voice-over): In a rare encounter, we meet a border patrol agent eager to vent. He asks us to mask his identity, worried he'll be fired for talking too openly.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was a job you did take pride in, secure the border. We didn't have to babysit.
 
CULVER: Does it frustrate you when you hear that, when you hear the narrative like why aren't border patrol doing anything?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our hands are tied. If I don't allow them to cross, they call and complain, now I'm in trouble. Now, I'm going to lose my job.
 
CULVER (voice-over): He blames the current administration, but isn't any more hopeful with the alternative.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I really don't like our two candidates.
 
CULVER (voice-over): We meet others also frustrated by border policy, though for more personal reasons.
 
CULVER: Is this the only way that you can get face-to-face?
 
KARLA PACHECO, WAITING FOR GREEN CARD: Yeah, literally.
 
FREDDY PACHECO, MEXICAN NATIONAL: Yes.
 
CULVER (voice-over): Karla Pacheco crossed illegally nearly 30 years ago. She has recently gotten her work permit, but is still waiting on a green card.
 
K. PACHECO: I can be within the U.S. (inaudible).
 
CULVER (voice-over): On the Mexico side, that's her dad, Freddy, who crossed illegally and was deported more than a decade back. They and other families meet here every couple of months to catch up.
 
CULVER: When is the last time you got to hug your dad?
 
K. PACHECO: 15, 16 years ago.
 
CULVER: Wait a minute, when you think about what's happening at the border now, what goes through your mind?
 
K. PACHECO: Yeah, well, it is unfair because we've been waiting what has been 20 years, 26 years, and nothing -- nothing was done. Being here, paying my taxes and not owing anything, no tickets, no nothing, yeah, there is -- I don't get anything out of it.
 
CULVER (voice-over): While Washington focuses on illegal crossings and asylum claims, cases like Karla's have been put on the back-burner for decades. Still, Freddy wants his next crossing to be done lawfully.
 
F. PACHECO: I want to take you right everything, you know, with my passport, with everything legal.
 
CULVER: Even if it means waiting years?
 
F. PACHECO: Don't worry.
 
(LAUGH)
 
K. PACHECO: It will happen (inaudible).
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
F. PACHECO: I can wait.
 
CULVER (voice-over): The wait for border patrol at this remote section of the Arizona-Mexico border, unbearable for some.
 
CULVER: And so, you're going to keep walking? Where?
 
CULVER (voice-over): Cartel-backed smugglers often mislead migrants to think that once they've crossed, the hard part is over. It is not. They struggle to push on in triple-digit heat, clinging to the border wall for balance and shade. Ahead of them, a seemingly endless stretch of hills to climb.
 
CULVER: We asked that border patrol agent who you saw in that piece (ph), if he was concerned about some of the people who were coming over the border? He said, look, the vast majority are women and children, but he said that in turn can distract them from folks who he says are likely here for more nefarious reasons.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
And it is concerning enough for him that he wants no part in signing their release. He said, for him, any signature that potentially releases somebody who then in turn does add things, could come back to hurt him
 
David Culver, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR OF "CNN NEWSROOM": Well, a 17-year legal battle has now ended with U.S. banana giant, Chiquita, liable for financing a Colombian Paramilitary Group. The company must pay more than $38 million to the families of eight of its victims. Stefano Pozzebon has the details from Bogota.
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: The ruling in a Florida federal court on Monday found banana company, Chiquita Brands International, liable for financing a Colombia right-wing paramilitary group that committed extensive human rights violations over 20 years ago. It is a groundbreaking case of international litigation according to the team of attorneys that won the argument in West Palm Beach.
 
Chiquita was ordered to pay the relatives of victims of the Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia or AUC, a criminal group connected to landowners and corporate interests in northern Colombia that United States declared a foreign terrorist organization in 2001. Some details of the cases that were read in court where brutal, talk of extra- judicial executions, forced displacements, and gratuitous displays of violence. But the ruling on Monday was celebrated as a victory for justice.
 
MARCO SIMONS, GENERAL COUNSEL, EARTHRIGHTS INTERNATIONAL: This money is not going to replace what's been lost. We are still talking about horrific abuses that these families have suffered. But the money is important because, unfortunately, the language that corporations understand the best is money. And so, sometimes it takes a significant monetary penalty to change corporate behavior.
 
POZZEBON: The Colombian President Gustavo Petro celebrated the ruling on his social media channels. Chiquita is also facing litigation in Colombia according to local media. And in a statement to CNN, Chiquita confirmed its intention to appeal. For the last 20 years, said the company maintained that it had been a victim of extortion by the AUC. But a U.S. justice previously found that Chiquita paid the AUC over 100 times between 1997 and 2004, for $1.7 million in total.
 
Monday's verdicts rule that the money was instrumental in propping up the AUC and that Chiquita was liable for the human rights abuse committed by the group. The cases heard in Florida are only a small portion of the total number of plaintiffs against the company and a team of attorneys that brought successfully forward these cases, intend to follow with further and further suits against Chiquita.
 
For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: And we are going to take a short break. We'll be right back in just a moment with much more news. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:40:25]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. For the second time in a week, something was thrown at far-right British politician Nigel Farage at a campaign event. The Brexiteer is seen on video waving at supporters from the open-top, double-decker bus when a man throws objects at Farage from a construction site. Farage wasn't hit and police caught the man after a brief chase. Farage posted on X that he will not be bullied or cowed by a violent left-wing mob.
 
Last Tuesday, a woman in southeast England was arrested and charged for throwing a milkshake at Farage outside a pub. Protesters are lashing out against Britain's King Charles over allegations of severe animal cruelty at a charity that he supports. CNN's Max Foster reports, they took aim at his new royal portrait.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT: So, this was King Charles' first official portrait since his coronation. It went viral on social media because so many people just didn't like it. It did have its defenders too though, and lots of people have gone to visit it as it hung in a gallery in London, including some protesters who used the opportunity to de-face it. They put -- or they pasted a cartoon over the front of it. This was a protest against The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. King Charles is patron of that animal welfare group.
 
And the protesters claim that the RSPCA are covering up cruelty on farms, something the RSPCA denies, though they will look into any allegations they say. The painting luckily wasn't harmed. It was covered in Perspex. No comment from Buckingham Palace. I suspect or get the feeling that they don't want to give this story any more publicity than it is already getting.
 
Max Foster, CNN, London.
 
KINKADE: Well, that does it for this edition of "CNN Newsroom." I'm Lynda Kinkade. Good to have your company. "World Sport" is coming up next. Then, I will be back in about 15 minutes with much more "CNN Newsroom."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)