Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: At Least 29 Survivors, But Dozens Feared Dead In Kazakhstan Plane Crash; Russia Launches Deadly Christmas Day Missile Attack On Ukraine; 2024 Election: Unprecedented, Unpredictable, Unforgettable. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired December 25, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:32:33]
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  I'm Danny Freeman in New York. Merry Christmas. 
 
Our breaking news this morning: a Christmas Day plane crash with at least 29 survivors, but dozens are feared dead. We want to warn you that some of the video you're about to see may be disturbing. 
 
Now, this plane went down near Aktau, Kazakhstan, after a reported bird strike. Rescuers were there in moments, putting out flames and pulling survivors from the wreckage.
 
CNN's Nada Bashir joins me now from London. 
 
Nada, what more do we know about this crash? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  Well, Danny, authorities are still investigating the cause behind the crash. What may have led to the pilot attempting to land the plane in an emergency landing. At this stage, according to authorities, the preliminary information that they have received suggests that the pilot may have attempted that emergency landing as a result of a bird strike. 
 
Now, as you mentioned, we have seen footage emerging from eyewitnesses from locals nearby who filmed the plane ahead of that crash circling the airfield somewhat erratically before crashing and bursting into flames. And we have seen distressing video emerging showing some of those passengers on board emerging from the wreckage, some of them injured and bloodied. 
 
But as you mentioned, it is remarkable that authorities have confirmed that at least 29 people survived the crash. There were, of course, 67 people on board, 65 passengers, five crew members, 29 are confirmed to have survived at this stage. They have been taken to hospital for medical attention. But of course, there are dozens feared dead and that investigation is still ongoing. Authorities are still working to confirm the status of those remaining passengers on board. 
 
And of course, this will be a deeply worrying and anxious time for family members and loved ones of those who were on board the plane. And we are tracking this, waiting to get more details. Of course, not only around the cause, but also the status of the passengers on board. But at this stage, that is the information that we have received from authorities and we'll be tracking this to get more updates as they come in -- Danny. 
 
FREEMAN:  So scary. But thankfully, there were at least some survivors. 
 
Nada Bashir, thank you very much. 
 
Also this morning, Russia has launched a massive Christmas morning aerial attack on Ukraine's energy sector, an attack Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy confirmed -- condemned, I should say, as inhumane. At least one person was killed in the Dnipro region after Russia launched more than 70 missiles and 100 attack drones. 
 
Ukraine's air defenses managed to shoot down many of them, but several still hit their energy sector targets, leading to blackouts across the country. 
 <br>[06:35:04]
 
You can see some of the damage here in Kharkiv to residential buildings and civilian infrastructure, as well. 
 
All right. That's a look at your top stories on this Christmas morning. Now send it back to Kasie. 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  The 2024 election was many things unprecedented, unpredictable and perhaps more than anything, unforgettable. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES:  In order to make America great and glorious again, I am tonight announcing my candidacy for president of the United States. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  This is not a time to be complacent. That's why I'm running for reelection. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  His approval numbers are historically low, the only rivaling only jimmy carter, who got slaughtered, of course, in that election.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST:  Donald Trump will officially become the first former president in the history of these United States to face a criminal trial. 
 
TRUMP:  This is an assault on America. 
 
INTERVIEWER:  You would never abuse power as retribution against anybody?
 
TRUMP:  Except for day one. He says, you're not going to be a dictator, are you? I said, no, no, no, other than day one. WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  The first Biden-Trump debate of 2024 is now
 
 set for June 27th, right here on CNN. 
 
BIDEN:  When I've been able to do with the -- with the COVID, excuse me, with dealing with everything we have to do with -- look, if -- we finally beat Medicare.
 
HUNT:  We are F'ed. That reaction from a Democratic source, after watching President Biden's performance in last night's CNN debate. 
 
It sounds like you're actually open to the idea that it might be the right decision for him to step aside. 
 
REP. MIKE QUIGLEY (D-IL):  I think what I'm stressing is that has to be his decision. 
 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA):  It's up to the president to decide if he is going to run. We're all encouraging him to make that decision because time is running short. 
 
ANNOUNCER:  This is CNN breaking news. 
 
HUNT:  Donald Trump injured but safe. The 2024 election fundamentally altered. America reeling from a horrific act of violence. 
 
HULK HOGAN, WRESTLER:  I said let Trumpmania run wild, brother. 
 
HUNT:  Congressman, do you think that Kamala Harris, at the top of the Democratic ticket could beat former President Trump in the fall? 
 
TIM RYAN, FORMER U.S. CONGRESSMAN:  I think she would smoke him honestly.
 
HUNT:  For the first time in over half a century, a sitting president who can still run for reelection will not appear on the ballot. President Joe Biden, making the stunning announcement on Sunday. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Kamala Harris!
 
(MUSIC)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Do we believe in the promise of America? And are we ready to fight for it? 
 
The next vice president of the United States, Tim Walz. 
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN):  You know it. You feel it. These guys are creepy, and yes, just weird as hell. That's what you see. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It is therefore my honor to nominate Ohio Senator J.D. Vance.
 
MEGYN KELLY, PODCASTER:  The childless cat lady. Would you like to comment on that? 
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES: Obviously, it was a sarcastic comment. I've got nothing against cats.
 
TRUMP:  In Springfield, they're eating the dogs, the people that came in.
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  This weird obsession with crowd sizes. 
 
HARRIS:  We are not going back. We are not going back. 
 
HUNT:  Welcome to all of you. So grateful to have you here. Bakari, are you okay? 
 
BAKARI SELLERS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Yeah. 
 
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Caffeine. Caffeine, caffeine.
 
SELLERS:  I don't -- I don't know where I am or what I'm doing, but I'm apparently here.
 
HUNT:  Just a little concerned. Can we put this shirt button first? 
 
SELLERS:  First of all, I am making a statement. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Hang on, hang on. Let me just let me get my Bakari. 
 
SELLERS:  All right, here we go. Bakari. 
 
HUNT:  Oh my god. God.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No, no, no, no.
 
HUNT:  Thank God you can barely see that on camera. 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST:  The Trump campaign says shots were fired in the vicinity of the former president at his Doral golf resort. He is safe. 
 
TRUMP:  A few days ago, we had an incident. I have to say, Secret Service did a hell of a job. They really did. 
 
Arnold Palmer was all man. He took showers with the other pros. They came out of there. They said, oh, my God.
 
I'm looking for a job. And I've always wanted to work at McDonald's. 
 
How do you like my garbage truck? This truck is in honor of Kamala and Joe Biden. 
 
HUNT:  We have reached an historic moment in this election -- John Berman. 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  That's right, Kasie. We can now project the winner of the presidential race. 
 
It is now official. CNN projects that Donald Trump has been elected president, defeating Vice President Kamala Harris. 
 
HARRIS:  While I concede this election, I do not concede the fight that fueled this campaign. 
 <br>[06:40:01]
 
TRUMP:  I want to thank the American people for the extraordinary honor of being elected your 47th president and your 45th president. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Wow. So we just as panelists back. That was a roller coaster that we all -- that we all lived. 
 
Alex Thompson, let me just start with you kind of go around. I mean, which moment stood out to you the most about this campaign and why? 
 
ALEX THOMPSON, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  I think the combination, you know, just watching that debate moment again that we beat Medicare one was just so painful. You know, at the moment we were only thinking about, like, the election consequences, the political consequences. But it was actually just sort of sad to watch it. 
 
I mean, you were seeing just that he wasn't capable of articulating his thoughts anymore. And then just seeing, you know, the potential ways that there could have been political violence. There were clearly there was a real assassination attempt. But, you know, we sort of honestly, I feel like got luck. You know, you imagine the number of close calls that we saw. 
 
Those were a few things that stood out. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah. Well, and the assassination attempt in particular, I mean, you know, I was struck at the time, it felt like this potentially very, you know, deeply changing event, obviously, with Biden dropping out subsequently, that the impact of that sort of, you know, it lasted through the convention and then kind of fell by the wayside. But we really did come very close.
 
BRAD TODD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Very close. And I think there was a moment there when people saw humanity in Donald Trump that they hadn't seen before, and they saw some characteristics that maybe they didn't know were there. 
 
I think it fundamentally changed the way a lot of reluctant Republicans viewed him. And in the end, consolidating that Republican base was pretty important. 
 
I also look at the debate. You know, I remember being in Atlanta and walking down to the filing center after the debate. I ran into Chris LaCivita, who was the co-campaign manager for Donald Trump. And I said, well, I think I think that was good for him. And he said, too good, too good. And so he, he, he knew at that at
 
 that moment that Joe Biden was in deep trouble and that the race was about to change. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Just ahead here on CNN this morning, Harry Enten is here. He's been making some lists, checking them twice, Christmas movies and more up next. 
 
Hi, Harry. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP))
 
UNIDENTIFIED GIRL:  Santa?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Scott Calvin. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED GIRL:  How come your clothes are so baggy? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Because Santa is watching his saturated fats.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:46:33]
 
HUNT:  So there are so many difficult decisions we have to make for the holidays. For example, what are the best cookies, perhaps that you might bake? What is the best Christmas movie to watch and what to do with the gifts that you receive that you don't really like that much? 
 
CNN senior data reporter Harry Enten is here to crunch all of the holiday numbers. 
 
Harry, wonderful to see you. 
 
Let's start with picking a Christmas tree. Do Americans, on the whole prefer real or fake? 
 
I have to say I am an aggressive partisan on this subject, which is to say, it must be a real tree. It must be cut down. But I may I may be in the minority, I don't know. Tell us. 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER:  Yeah, I was shocked by this one. Sometimes I get shocked by numbers in politics, but sometimes in pop culture and holidays, I get even more shocked. 
 
I mean, look at this. Have a Christmas tree, the vast, the clear majority, the clear majority, look at this, 55 percent say yes, but it's artificial. It's artificial. 
 
The girlfriend's family has always had an artificial tree. The mini tree in our house is artificial. Just 22 percent say yes and real. And then there's the 20 --  
 
HUNT:  I'm really in the minority. ENTEN:  You're really in the minority. Although I guess you're tied
 
 with no tree at 22 percent as well. 
 
But it's artificial. People don't like going out there and buying that, throwing it out. It's just such a pain in the butt. And I know it's a pain in the butt, especially in New York City. 
 
So artificial is the one. You could trot it out year after year, and it just makes much less of a mess. 
 
HUNT:  It does make less of a mess. I will, I will say it is actually a pain to bring it in, but I -- I'm very attached. 
 
All right. So gifts harry. Apparently there's lots of people who, you know, get things that they -- they don't really appreciate. What do they do with them? 
 
ENTEN:  Yeah. I am not one of them. I love all of the gifts that the girlfriend gets for me. I want to be very, very clear on this. And I'm sure you love all of the gifts that you do as well. 
 
But I mean, the bottom line is this holiday gifts don't like. Get this, 49 percent say they keep them. Oh my God. I mean, I know we want to make the people around us happy, but we can be honest with each other, right? Apparently not. You get 31 percent who say return. And I think that's the right answer. 
 
And then get this, 16 percent say they regift it. They give it away to somebody else. Oh, yeah. Here's your secondary gift. Here you go. 
 
No, no, no, no, no, return is right. But I guess about half of us feel like we have to keep everyone around us happy. 
 
HUNT:  Is this a bad time to admit I have a regifting closet in my basement now. This is the right time. I collect all you know things that come in the house that I don't have an immediate use for. It's actually great for, you know, don't tell, don't tell my kids that sometimes I intercept extra gifts for them. And then I have great birthday presents.
 
Anyway. All right, so next up, Christmas movies. What are the favorites? 
 
ENTEN:  Yeah. What are the favorites here? I will say that my favorite is not in the top three. So number one, "It's a Wonderful Life", 9 percent. Obviously, that's a classic. 
 
HUNT:  Love it. It's a classic. 
 
ENTEN:  It's a classic, right. 
 
"How the Grinch Stole Christmas", I actually remember seeing that in movies. That comes in at 7 percent in second. And then of course, "A Christmas Story" comes in at third, tied basically with "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" at 7 percent. 
 
I mean, as a kid, you couldn't avoid this, right? It was on PBS every freaking minute. I bet it's on PBS right at this exact moment. 
 
So, look, these are the top three. But my number one, "Die Hard". Unfortunately, it is a Christmas movie. It came in though at -- 
 
HUNT:  I was going to say, that's the survey I want to see. What -- what percentage of Americans think "Die Hard" is a Christmas movie.
 
All right, next one. Harry, you've got cookies. America's favorite cookie. What is it? 
 
ENTEN:  Yeah. All right, so what is America's cookie when it comes to the holiday season? 
 <br>[06:50:02]
 
I mean, how -- I don't understand this. I mean, you know, where's ginger on here? 
 
What is going on? What is going on? But chocolate chip is number one. 
 
HUNT:  Fudge is not a cookie Harry. Why did you put fudge on the list? It's not a cookie. 
 
ENTEN:  A fudge cook -- I mean, a fudge cookie. It's a fudge cookie. But, you know, you want to make it clear what's going on here. It's a fudge cookie. I want a visual to sort of represent, but it's a fudge cookie. You've had a fudge cookie before. 
 
Two is -- 
 
HUNT:  No, but --  
 
ENTEN:  You've never had a fudge cookie. They're so fantastic. 
 
HUNT:  So --  
 
ENTEN:  They combine two great desserts, fudge and a cookie. There you go. A fudge cookie. 
 
Two is sugar. I like I like a good sugar cookie. Three is the fudge cookie. I love chocolate, so a fudge cookie kind of brings it all around. Chocolate chip. 
 
HUNT:  Why don't you just eat fudge though? I don't understand.
 
ENTEN:  Because some -- because sometimes you got to make compromises in life when you're in a relationship, Kasie. 
 
HUNT:  That's fair. Fair enough. 
 
All right. And lastly, Harry, this Hanukkah actually starts tonight as well. Pretty rare for Christmas and Hanukkah to line up like this. No?
 
ENTEN:  Yeah. If you've ever watched me on air, you might notice that I say shalom a lot. So this is rather important to me. Its Chrismukkah time, baby. Hanukkah first -- first night on Christmas. It only happens 4 percent of the time, 96 percent of the time since 1900. It doesn't. 
 
So this is a great melding of two American traditions right here Christmas, Hanukkah, big shopping season. So I like it 4 percent of the time. 
 
And one little last nugget to go -- to go out on its bottom line. This there are in fact 16 different ways to spell Hanukkah. So no matter what way you spell it, Kasie, you end up being correct. 
 
HUNT:  This is why we love you, Harry Enten. Merry Christmas, happy Hanukkah. Thank you for that. 
 
ENTEN:  To you as well.
 
HUNT:  You're a gem. See you in the New Year. 
 
ENTEN:  See you. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Okay. Our panel is back. 
 
You know, lots to chew on there, but let's go with your favorite Christmas movie. Brad, I think we have a clip from yours. Let's watch it. 
 
(MOVIE CLIP PLAYS)
 
HUNT:  Okay, brad, you're going to have to explain this. What is this?
 
TODD:  It's a Patricia Neal movie from the early '70s. It's called "The Homecoming". It's about an Appalachian family during the Depression. And I grew up in east Tennessee, in rural east Tennessee, in a very large rural family. 
 
And this rang true to me as a kid. And so I have continued to watch it. Now I have to watch it alone. No one in my family will watch it with me. My kids think it's the weirdest thing ever, so I've got the award for the most boring Christmas movie, but it's mine. 
 
HUNT:  It is a deep cut, but you know, I love the explanation. 
 
All right, let's roll Kate's, please. 
 
(MOVIE CLIP PLAYS)
 
HUNT:  This one is self-explanatory. 
 
BEDINGFIELD:  I mean, I just the moment in the end where the dad gives him the BB gun, it just. It is so sweet and kind, and I just love it. And like everyone, my family, we watched it every year, and I probably. 
 
HUNT:  Is it bad to admit I've never seen it? 
 
BEDINGFIELD:  You have never seen it? 
 
HUNT:  I'm going to have to watch it. BEDINGFIELD:  You don't get it when people say fragile? What do you
 
 think people are doing when they say that? 
 
HUNT:  I've never understood it. Now I do. Thank you. 
 
All right. Elliot, let's see it. 
 
(MOVIE CLIP PLAYS)
 
HUNT:  All right. I've never heard this one either, but that was pretty good. 
 
ELLIOT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST:  So that's Emma --  
 
THOMPSON:  Dropping the mic. 
 
WILLIAMS:  I'm dropping the sharpie. "Emmet Otters Jug-Band Christmas" is this sleeper hit that people who like "Emmet Otters Jug-Band Christmas" really like Emmet Otters Jug-Band Christmas. And it's sort of -- it's a Muppets film. It's Jim Henson. 
 
And the powerful thing about the movie is its Emmet and his mother make huge sacrifices for each other. No spoilers, I won't tell you. And it's all about the holiday season. 
 
And the songs are bangers like that. That song there, barbecue, it slaps all of them. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah, I've seen it. I'll have to check it out. 
 
WILLIAMS:  You trust me.
 
HUNT:  And Alex here apparently shares this. It's a -- it's a real, like, sliced up little electorate there on Christmas movies. But many people many people love this one.
 
Watch.
 
(MOVIE CLIP PLAYS)
 
HUNT:  Every time a bell rings, an angel gets its wings, Alex. 
 
THOMPSON:  I mean, the very -- I'm a man of the people. So I pick number one. 
 
But, you know, every single time that at the very end, when his brother comes in and cheers to George, the richest man in town, I only literally cried at two movies. And I do cry to that movie. 
 
HUNT:  It's -- I mean, it's worth crying over it now. 
 
So I'm going to take the anchor's point of personal privilege and give you two favorite Christmas movies. One is from my childhood, "White Christmas". Let's watch it. 
 
(MOVIE CLIP PLAYS) HUNT:  I mean, what is not to love about this movie? And, of course, the Bing Crosby classic that came from it. 
 
But then I have to say, the modern -- sorry, mom -- version of me loves this movie. That was not a huge hit in the very beginning, but this is Nancy Meyers' "The Holiday".
 
(MOVIE CLIP PLAYS)
 
HUNT:  I mean, Kate, it's a classic.
 <br>[06:55:00]
 
BEDINGFIELD:  A hundred percent. I'm with you. We are -- we are right on the same page on this one. 
 
HUNT:  I made my husband watch it with me this year. He doesn't usually. Usually, I have to watch it by myself. 
 
THOMPSON:  Did he like it? 
 
HUNT:  Yeah, he likes it. 
 
THOMPSON:  Yeah, I was skeptical, but I actually think it's pretty great. 
 
HUNT:  It's aged really well. Kate Winslet, Jack Black are amazing. Jude Law is really good. Cameron Diaz, of course, with some funny moments. Anyway. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HUNT:  What's that? 
 
TODD:  You're going to be watching it by yourself one day. 
 
BEDINGFIELD:  You're going to be like --  
 
HUNT:   I have done that a couple of years already. 
 
BEDINGFIELD:  Like, this is a Jude Law movie from the mid-2000. 
 
HUNT:  Exactly. 
 
All right. Straight ahead here on CNN THIS MORNING, Republicans in power. What Donald Trump's party could do with control of all three branches of government in the New Year. 
 
Plus, out of this world ambition. Elon Musk among those shooting for the stars in 2025. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)