Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Elon Musk To Campaign In Pennsylvania For Trump; Musk & Other Billionaires Giving Millions For Trump's Bid; Los Angeles DA Releases New Evidence In Menendez Case; Survey: Americans More Anxious About Paying Credit Card Bills. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired October 16, 2024 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:32:09]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Happening right now, President Biden is in Washington delivering a eulogy at the memorial service for Ethel Kennedy, long human rights advocate and, of course, widow of Robert F. Kennedy.
 
And the Kennedy family matriarch recently passed away at the age of 96 after suffering a stroke earlier this month.
 
Former Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, you see there, are expected to speak as well during the service. So we'll be monitoring this moment.
 
Back to the race for the White House. Former President Trump getting some help in Pennsylvania from one of the world's best-known and also most-controversial billionaires, it's fair to say. 
 
Elon Musk just posting that he'll be campaigning for Trump in the critical swing state, starting today through Monday.
 
And new federal election filings show that the world's richest man is getting much more than his time to Trump's reelection bid. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Yes, he's one of three billionaires that, together, have given $220 million over three months to Trump, not directly to his campaign but through Political Action Committees that back the former president.
 
CNN Politics' Fredreka Schouten is here with the details.
 
Fredreka, let's talk about, first, where all this money is coming from. 
 
FREDREKA SCHOUTEN, CNN POLITICS NATIONAL POLITICAL WRITER: Well, I mean, it's coming from their pockets, right? Elon Musk has given nearly $75 million to a super PAC that he started earlier this year. 
 
You have Miriam Adelson, who is a big supporter of Donald Trump's and the heir to a casino fortune, giving $95 million. Then you also have a midwestern packaging magnate, that maybe he's not
 
 a household name to a lot of folks, Richard Uihlein, who has given nearly $50 million to a super PAC that he has helped found. 
 
So a lot of money coming in here in the final weeks of this campaign to help Donald Trump try to make up the difference. 
 
I mean, Kamala Harris is, as you both know, has really been a fundraising juggernaut, right? And these folks are spending a lot of money to help out Donald Trump. 
 
KEILAR: Yes, and Trump does then have to rely on these pacts, right, to navigate some things, which certainly requires some trust.
 
What -- why do they -- why do these billionaires want to back-Trump? What are they aiming for? 
 
SCHOUTEN: I think there were a number of reasons. I mean, some of it is just ideology. If you look at somebody like Dr. Adelson, I mean, she's a big supporter of Israel and has backed Donald Trump during his first time in office.
 
And was very supportive of his move -- to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. I mean, she was right there. So I think that's something that they have in common. 
 
I think that people are probably motivated a little bit by tax policy. Obviously, Donald Trump has talked extensively about his hope to extend his tax cuts from 2017 that expire in 2025. 
 <br>[13:35:00]
 
And then I think you also have maybe for some folks, who have this sort of Libertarian hands-off my technology attitude, are also drawn to him. So a variety of reasons, I think.
 
SANCHEZ: Maybe just similar motivations, but obviously it is a lot of money. And we always hear about efforts to remove money from politics, right? 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SANCHEZ: You roll your eyes, but I'm curious if this is all legal, right? There's no --
 
SCHOUTEN: Well, that's the thing. It's -- you know, these are all -- this is all money that's flowing to super PACs. And we've traditionally thought that super PACs are supposed to be independent of the candidates they support.
 
SANCHEZ: Right.
 
SCHOUTEN: But the Federal Election Commission, earlier this year, sort of tweaked that rule a little bit and said, well, when you're going out and you're talking to voters or leaving mailers, canvassing, that kind of activity can be coordinated with the campaigns. And people have seized on it. I mean, that's one of the things that
 
 the Musk super PAC is doing. They are in battleground states and trying to persuade people to vote for Donald Trump. 
 
And he has largely outsourced his ground operation to these organizations. So we'll see if it works. 
 
KEILAR: Yes. And if it doesn't, he may have some regrets. 
 
SCHOUTEN: Yes.
 
KEILAR: Fredricka Schouten, thank you so much. Always appreciate you. 
 
So later today, relatives of Erik and Lyle Menendez will publicly ask Los Angeles County's district attorney to free the brothers decades after they were convicted of murdering their parents. We'll have details ahead on that, and some potential new evidence, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:40:52]
 
KEILAR: In just a couple of hours, the family of Erik and Lyle Menendez will be pushing for the brothers' release from prison at a news conference in Los Angeles.
 
SANCHEZ: The Menendez brothers are now in their 50s and they're serving life sentences because without the possibility of parole after they we're convicted of killing their parents in the family's Beverly Hills mansion back in 1989.
 
At their first trials, both claim self-defense after years of abuse, including sexual abuse by their father.
 
Dominic Patten joins us now live. He's the executive editor of "Deadline Hollywood." 
 
Dominic, thank you so much for being with us. 
 
I think a lot of this new interest in the Menendez brothers is tied to the Netflix series that's really brought public interest in the case. And also celebrities that have long advocated for them.
 
Including Rosie O'Donnell. Because in a recent interview, she said that she spoke to them and their lawyer. We have that sound byte. Let's listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSIE O'DONNELL, ADVOCATE FOR MENENDEZ BROTHERS: I called them after I spoke to Marc last night about doing this appearance. And I said, What's going on? And they said we -- you know, there hesitant to hope after being in jail, in prison for 35 years and being abused from his childhood up to that point. 
 
You know, these men don't have a lot of bandwidth to hope for what exactly happened.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: What role has she have others -- she and others played in this, Dominic? 
 
DOMINIC PATTEN, EXECUTIVE EDITOR, "DEADLINE HOLLYWOOD": Well, one of the things, you know, is Rosie O'Donnell will be at that press conference that you mentioned earlier in downtown L.A. outside the criminal justice building, the very building where the Menendez trials happened, where O.J. Simpson, Harvey Weinstein, and many others.
 
Celebrity advocacy -- Kim Kardashian has also been someone who has come to the Menendez's defense. That's been a huge part of this. 
 
But as you also mentioned, there has been the recent Netflix drama series "Monster." But perhaps, more importantly, last year, there was a Peacock docuseries about the two brothers where what some are calling new evidence was introduced.
 
Which is a letter from one of the brothers to one of their cousins detailing sexual abuse from their father, music executive, Jose Menendez. 
 
And there was also a letter from one of the members of the boy band, Menudo, talking about sexual abuse that he claims he suffered at the hands of the Menendez brothers' father.
 
So all of this is bubbling up at the same time, which is also -- and I should point out, you mentioned that the D.A. has recently reviewed new discovered evidence. Well, it's not that new. They've had it for a year. 
 
A lot of people are here. On October 3rd, the D.A., George Gascon, who is in a very, very bad looking campaign where he's down over 20 points, went before the press to say, oh, we've got this evidence and we're thinking about doing something. And there's going to be a hearing in November. 
 
So there's a lot of inner politics -- inner L.A. politics going on here. I mean, this is L.A. You guys know, car crashes and the weather and true crime are the currency of the realm. 
 
And the Menendez brothers have certainly been delivering the dividends for decades.
 
KEILAR: Yes. I grew up in the '80s in southern California, so I know what you're talking about. 
 
You mentioned the D.A. and that letter. And I do want to read part of it. 
 
It says, "I never know when it's going to happen and it's driving me crazy. Every night I stay up thinking he might come in. I need to put it out of my mind. I know what you said before, but I'm afraid. You don't know dad like I do. He's crazy." And, Dominic, advocates for the brothers, and this includes -- and we mentioned, some of the high-profile folks. But there's also Kim Kardashian, who's advocating for them. 
 
And they say that their convictions were due, in part, to the publics now archaic view of male victim of sexual assault.
 
Do you think that a change in public attitudes about that topic is going to factor in here? 
 
PATTEN: Absolutely. I think that the cultural shifts we've seen in society over the past 25 years, 35 years, obviously play a role. The D.A. talked about that as well.
 
And the family members, there's over a dozen of them, many of whom have flown into Los Angeles for today's press conference, will talk about that, too, as they undoubtedly ask for the release of their -- of their -- of the two boys.
 <br>[13:45:02]
 
But the thing is, I think important, no one disagrees those boys shot their parents at point-blank range. They did, in fact, pursue their mother, Kitty Menendez, after the shooting of their father.
 
And these trials, while there is this new evidence, is really a question of here is, is the D.A. going to bring in something like a sentencing review and reduced sentence? Certainly, they've been behind bars for decades. No one can dispute that. 
 
Is there going to be a new trial? What form will that new trial go? Or is a lot of this, like I'll also add, the D.A. recently bringing up allegations against Marilyn Manson after letting them linger for a long time. 
 
Is this L.A. city politics at play? And the Menendez brothers are pawns in this? It's very hard to tell. And I think all of those factors play a role.
 
SANCHEZ: Important context to keep in mind as we watch for that press conference later today.
 
Dominic Patten, thank you so much for the update. Appreciate you. 
 
PATTEN: Of course.
 
SANCHEZ: So as voters go to the polls over the next 20 days, the economy remains the top issue for most. 
 
There's a new concern for many Americans, specifically when it comes to paying off credit cards. Details ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:50:49] SANCHEZ: Americans are feeling upbeat about their jobs, inflation, and their paychecks. At least that's according to a new survey from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 
It is not all good news though. 
 
KEILAR: And that's what you left for me. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: Consumers are increasingly worried about credit card debt. They're worried about their ability to make that minimum payment every month. 
 
We have CNN's Matt Egan with more.
 
The good and the bad news, Matt Egan, because this survey says Americans haven't been this worried since April of 2020 at the beginning of the pandemic. 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: That's right, Brianna and Boris. You know, this does make sense because we know interest rates have been sky high for years. Bank Rate says the average credit card rate is above 20 percent, just shy of the all-time high. 
 
So this New York Fed survey finds that the average perceived probability of missing a minimum debt payment stands at 14 percent. Now, this is the fourth straight month where this number has gone up. 
 
And as you mentioned, this is the highest level since April of 2020 when millions of people were losing their jobs. Outside of the pandemic, you have to go back to January 2017 for a higher figure there.
 
And just to note, this is measuring all debt. So, yes, credit cards, but also mortgages and car loans and student debt as well. 
 
And this is clearly a sign that some Americans, despite low unemployment and cooling inflation, some people are obviously still feeling financial stress, especially lower-income households.
 
Because this survey found, for those making under 50K a year, they have a 20 percent chance of missing their payments. There's a 20 percent perceived chance of missing their minimum debt payment. That is more than twice as high as those making more than 100K a year. 
 
And we know that, to get by right now, a lot of people are relying on credit card debt. And credit card debt has never been higher, over $1.1 trillion right now.
 
I think the good news is that, right now, paychecks are consistently going up faster than prices. So that really helps.
 
And also the Fed has finally started to lower those sky-high interest rates.
 
SANCHEZ: So, Matt, if folks are struggling with debt, what should they do?
 
EGAN: Well, listen, there are options out there, particularly for people who are struggling with high credit card debt. We know one in seven Gen Z credit card borrowers have actually maxed out on their credit card debt. 
 
So there are some options. One thing is you can buy time by transferring that high interest debt to a 0 percent balance transfer card. For up to 21 months, you could have no interest on that debt. 
 
Sometimes you can also get a lower rate if you go with a personal loan. For homeowners, obviously, home prices are high right now, so a lot of them should be able to take out a home equity loan or a home equity line of credit.
 
And I know it's easier said than done, but you can also try to lower your expenses or boost your income perhaps through a side hustle. 
 
But again, that's easier said than done. And we know a lot of people are struggling with a lot is debt right now.
 
KEILAR: Yes. Easier said than done for sure. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
Matt Egan, thanks so much for the updates.
 
EGAN: Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: Now to some of the other headlines we're watching this hour.
 
Federal regulators are launching a new probe into a near collision, or near collisions, I should say, at 45 of the country's busiest airports. 
 
Officials say the audit will drill down on risks at each airport, including identifying potential gaps and procedures, and making recommendations to improve safety. The FAA says it's audit will be completed sometime next year.
 
KEILAR: Bed, Bath and Beyond is coming back inside the Container Store. In exchange for investing $40 into the struggling Container Store, Bed, Bath and Beyond's products will be sold at 102 Container Stores. 
 
No word yet on whether those iconic blue coupons can be used at the Container Store. 
 
And a Florida couple, who we're warned about an approaching tornado during Hurricane Milton, track down the hero that they say saved them and their kids. 
 
The St. Lucie County couple found the woman who warn them on Facebook. They reunited. You see them here. Big hugs, big hugs all around. 
 <br>[13:55:02] Michelle Westfield explained what it was like at the moment when the twister was approaching and Brandi Clark reversed her car and yelled out to seek cover.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHELLE WESTFIELD, WARNED OF TORNADO BY STRANGER: Her tires were squealing and she was just taking off backwards, "Run into the house." 
 
I hear her scream, "Get in your house." And I'm like, oh, my god, this is bad.
 
No sooner than he shuts the door behind me, I grabbed my kids and we're still standing the middle of living room and my house just started shaking. It was the craziest 15 seconds of my life. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I'm truly blessed. I mean, look right there.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: Wow.
 
KEILAR: Making a grown man cry there.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
KEILAR: Just see that he was choking up. The women say they plan to stay in touch. They'll continue this special friendship with barbecue.
 
SANCHEZ: As you commemorate special friendships.
 
KEILAR: I love that.
 
And next -- next, we have reaching out beyond the base. As Vice President Kamala Harris makes her pitch to conservatives, former President Trump appearing at a town hall with women as Election Day is just 20 days away. We'll have the latest on the race ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)