Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Nebraska Residents Left Devastated By Tornados' Destruction; Pro-Palestinian Protests Spread To College Campuses Across The U.S.; Student: Emory University Allowed "Severe Brutality" By Police On Campus; Bill Barr: I'll Vote For Trump Even Though He Shouldn't Be Near The Oval Office; Oral Arguments Suggest Supreme Court May Not Totally Resolve Trump Immunity Case; Justices Debate Whether Trump Can Be Charged Over "Private" Efforts To Reverse 2020 Election; Escalating Tensions In Iran Over Israel And War In Gaza; Pacers Outlast Bucks In Epic Overtime Thriller; 2 Ejected From Clippers-Mavs Series. Aired 1- 2p ET

Aired April 27, 2024 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:00:00]
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The exact cause still under investigation.
 
CARROLL (voice over): German explorer, Arthur Loibl, can't stop thinking about how lucky he is to be alive.
 
ARTHUR LOIBL, EXPLORER: It becomes everyday clearer and clearer how many -- how much luck I had to survive this trip.
 
CARROLL (voice over): Loibl paid $100,000 for a seat on board one of Titans earlier voyages to the Titanic.
 
His 2021 dive was plagued with problems.
 
LOIBL: Almost these electrical systems -- they have problems to loads the batteries.
 
One dive was stopped by 1,600 meters. I was only afraid about the system -- is the batteries.
 
CARROLL (voice over): Despite the fate of the Titan, both Loibl and Virts, say they can't fault people for being obsessed with wanting to explore the wreckage of the Titanic.
 
More than a century after its demise, and still questions about how it sank, still a fascination with those who survived and those who did not.
 
Loibl gets goosebumps even now thinking about when he finally saw the Titanic.
 
LOIBL: The first moment we see its bow, It's -- in my brain, it's in my life. I will never forget it. It's running called my back when I talk about this.
 
CARROLL (voice over): It's a timeless story that continues to capture their hearts of explorers.
 
COL. TERRY VIRTS, RETIRED NASA ASTRONAUT: That's the old adage, why do you climb the mountain? If you have to ask why, then you don't understand.
 
CARROLL (voice over): Jason Carroll, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: And tune in tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time for a special two-hour premiere of "HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED". Titanic parts one and two.
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN "BREAKING NEWS".
 
WHITFIELD: Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
And more on our "BREAKING NEWS" this hour, after devastating tornadoes ripped through the central plains overnight and a stronger storm system is posing new risks now.
 
More than 50 million people from Texas to Michigan are under threat for severe weather. The area between Dallas and Kansas City is expected to get hit the hardest with tornadoes, large hail, and flooding are among the biggest hazards.
 
There were nearly 80 reports of tornadoes across five states on Friday, and there are no fatalities reported even in some of the hardest hit communities near Omaha.
 
Now, rescue crews are up against the clock searching flattened homes for anyone potentially trapped before the storms intensify again.
 
For the latest now, I'm joined by CNN's Lucy Kafanov in hard-hit Elkhorn, Nebraska; and meteorologist Elisa Raffa, who is tracking all of this in the CNN Weather Center.
 
Lucy, let's go to you first. Tell us what you're seeing there.
 
LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We can see the destruction behind me. This is one of the neighborhoods where that massive twister touchdown on Friday.
 
You can see the roofs taken off the home -- half of that home missing. But take a look over here, this entire structure was destroyed. You can see that family members as well as volunteers and local neighbors are helping this family salvage what they can. I also want to show you this area right here. Now, this was a two-story, four bedroom, 2-1/2 bath, 2,500 square foot home, nothing remains. it was built in 2022.
 
This entire platform where the rooms were, flattened. You can see the car over there, the white car flipped on its head, it shows you the force of that incredibly powerful storm.
 
This right here, you can't really see it. But this was the basement. This is one of the areas where this family could have sheltered. We spoke to a friend of the family. They were going to shelter in the basement. They heard the tornado warnings. They started watching the news. The wife said, you know what, this is too risky. Let's get out of here. And so, they made a very, very good decision not staying here.
 
A lot of other families in this neighborhood, however sheltered in their basements. They described the terrifying moments. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's my son's bedroom, yes. And I told him to go to his mom's house. Yes. And I'm glad he did.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As we're running to the basement, I saw daylight, and I dove into the basement, and my wife was already in there, and she literally grabbed me and pulled me into the basement.
 
We're OK, we're good. We're good. The neighbors are good, all the animals are good. We're OK.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I was at the gas station getting hot dogs. And it saved my life. So, my dogs saved my life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAFANOV: And Fred, so much tragedy as people have to figure out how to rebuild their lives. But one beautiful thing that we've been witnessing all morning, a lot of the people here that are helping are neighbors. They are strangers. They're part of this community. They are not official cleanup crews. Everyone is just banding together to try to help whoever needs it.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Well, it's remarkable to hear that story of a woman and her family. We thought it was riskier to go in the basement than it was to leave, and come to find out they were right on that.
 
Lucy, thank you so much.
 <br>[13:05:07]
 
Elisa in the CNN Weather Center now. What are the conditions like now, because it doesn't seem like anyone is out of the woods yet.
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: No, we have storms that are firing up again as we speak, and communities that have already cleaned up some damage. I mean, look at all the reports from yesterday, All the reds that you see are the nearly 80 Tornado reports that we've got.
 
And look at the risk for today laying that on top. You see that tornado bullseye a little bit farther south this time around for parts of Oklahoma and then going into Texas. But a lot of the same areas could see strong thunderstorms again today. To highlight where Lucy just was in that Omaha community. That Weather Service office in Omaha issued 42 tornado warnings. That is the most that a singular office has issued in one day in nearly five years. Just an incredibly active day, with all the warnings from Lincoln to Omaha, and then over to Des Moines as well.
 
We take a look at what's going on right now. We do have a couple of severe thunderstorm warnings in parts of Oklahoma, just to the west there of Oklahoma City. And we'll continue to find these grow as we go through the day today.
 
We have an additional tornado watch now that was just issued a few minutes ago for parts of Kansas from Wichita headed up towards Kansas City that goes until 7:00 Central Time. So, we're not nearly done yet. We're just getting started expecting multiple tornado watches as we go through the day today.
 
Here is that risk. See that red bullseye? That's a moderate risk, level four and a five. We're talking about strong tornadoes. We're talking about damaging winds to 70 miles per hour. Tennis ball-sized hail. In that red hatched area, especially from Tulsa to Oklahoma City down towards Wichita Falls, we're talking about the possibility of EF3 tornadoes or stronger. That would cause severe damage similar to what we saw yesterday from 136 mile per hour winds and greater. So, just really heed these warnings and take them so seriously.
 
The atmosphere is so fueled. We have so much energy in the atmosphere right now. It will explode as the storms continue to fire up. We've got temperatures in the 70s and 80s, really juicy dew points in the 60s. So, storms will continue to fire up as we go through the afternoon and evening today. And then, they could form a line and that line could continue to push eastward as we go through the overnight. That would be that damaging wind threat.
 
The threat continues as we go into Sunday, the wind kind of reinvigorates with more daytime heating on Sunday, and we have an additional severe risk for Sunday, a level two and a five, that yellow slight risk there. For, again, a couple more tornadoes, damaging winds, and large hail.
 
So, just please heed those warnings.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
RAFFA: We heard so many people say yesterday in Nebraska, those warnings to save their lives, I have chills. Like that those warnings matters. So, listen to them when their issued.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. That's why your role is so vital, so important. Elisa Raffa, thank you so much. And Lucy Kafanov there in the field as well.
 
All right. We are also monitoring new developments as college campuses are gripped by pro-Palestinian protests. Northeastern University says campus operations have "returned to normal". This morning, police in Boston say they arrested about 100 people, clearing what they called an unauthorized encampment.
 
In a statement, Northeastern officials say that they believed professional organizers had joined the ranks of student protesters. A different situation in California, where administrators at Cal Poly Humboldt are now closing campus for the remainder of the semester. As protesters there continue to occupy two buildings. Demonstrators on campuses from across the U.S. are demanding an end to the war in Gaza and calling on universities to divest from funding and various movements.
 
At the same time, some Jewish students say these protests are making them feel unsafe. CNN's Polo Sandoval and Rafael Romo are standing by at college campuses in New York and Atlanta.
 
Polo, you first in New York at Columbia University -- really the epicenter of these protests. What's happening there today?
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Fred.
 
As you point out, this is where this wave of demonstrations are started. Now, compared to what we witnessed yesterday, which were some temperatures flaring up on some non-student-related protests on the sidewalk, things are relatively calm, not just off campus, but also on for, at least, from our perspective here.
 
What we are certainly watching closely are these negotiations between official representatives of the members of that pro-Palestinian encampment on the Columbia campus, and a small group of Columbia University administrators, as they try to find some sort of common ground.
 
Yesterday, those news that some of the members of that encampment certainly did not want to hear, which is that these negotiations if they haven't stalled, they, at least have slowed. That's at least, according to one of the two main negotiators involved Mahmoud Khalil. I want you to hear how he described things yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAHMOUD KHALIL, STUDENT NEGOTIATOR: We are at a stage where kind of an impasse. The university is not acknowledging the movement and the extent of the movement. And what they are willing to offer is mostly just the statements, processes, and committees.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[13:10:02]
 
SANDOVAL: So that impasse, the question is how long will that last? I reached out to organizers this morning. They said it is likely that they will not have an official update on those negotiations, possibly until Monday, which is really quite telling them what we may expect today and tomorrow. That encampment continues there.
 
Things are calm at this point, at least, as a whole. Also, the members of that -- of that encampment saying that they have received no guarantees from the university that they will not request assistance from the New York Police Department to actually clear that encampment.
 
But just to be clear, Fred, we have not seen the last several days any indication that that may be imminent.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Polo, we've heard about detentions at Northeastern University. What do you know about that?
 
SANDOVAL: Yes, you mentioned that at the top, Fred. And I have a little bit more to share with you. According to the vice president of communications there at Northeastern University in Boston that there were about 100 people who were detained yesterday.
 
Officials at that university describing it as part of the clearing up efforts at trying to basically pull out some of those as they described them professional protesters there. Some color to share with you, those that could produce student I.D.s were released by authorities, however, they would likely face disciplinary action from the university. Those who refused to provide any sort of identification, they were the ones who were certainly arrested by officials.
 
So, again, this is just a snapshot of what other universities have faced. But again, we have not seen any sort of a, you know, that kind of activity here at Columbia. At least, not since last week, whenever 100 students were arrested by the NYPD.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval outside Columbia University in New York.
 
Thanks so much. Let's go to Atlanta now. Rafael Romo is at the Emory University campus.
 
Rafael, we saw several protesters arrested there on Thursday. What's happening there now?
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's a very different situation, Fredricka. The situation here at Emory University is calm. But that doesn't mean the repercussions about the violent arrest on Thursday are over.
 
We took a look earlier at the university quad and it was empty. But you can still see messages written with chalk on sidewalks and things like long lived Palestine and ceasefire now, after clashes with police resulted in multiple arrests on Thursday. Including, at least, a couple of Emory University professors. There were protests once again here Friday, but they were more peaceful.
 
Also Friday, Emory tenured faculty gathered on campus to express concerns about Thursday's violence arrests and the fact that there were three police agencies here on campus, they were considering a motion for a no-confidence vote of university -- Emory University president, Gregory Fenves.
 
In the last hour, I had an opportunity to talk to Martin Berg. He is a third-year law student, graduating in three weeks, who was arrested on Thursday and released Friday afternoon.
 
This is what he had to say about the protests and arrests.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARTIN BERG, EMORY STUDENT ARRESTED DURING PROTESTS: What I saw was unprovoked and severe brutality exacted by police that Emory University had allowed to come on campus and assault their students. The message that the president of the university sent regarding outside agitators was manifestly untrue. It was a lie, and I believe he knew it was a lie when it happened.
 
Because I mean, when I was in jail, I caught -- I was, you know, talking with the folks that were in there with me, the majority of us, you know, were associated with university in one way or another.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO: And Fredricka, on the other hand, Emory University President Fenves said in a statement that some of those participating in the protests were highly organized. Outside protesters who arrived on campus in vans, and constructed encampments. In a statement, he also said the following, and here I quote, "As Emory community members continued to express themselves and protest, we are committed to working with students and faculty, open expression observers and the EPD to facilitate their peaceful expression. However, we will not tolerate vandalism, violence, or any attempt to disrupt our campus through the construction of encampment.
 
Fred, as you can see, very different positions is about what happened here on Thursday. Now, back to you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Rafael Romo and Polo Sandoval, thanks to both of you. Appreciate it.
 
All right. Still to come, in an exclusive CNN interview, Former U.S. Attorney General Bill Barr says former President Trump should not be anywhere near the Oval Office, but he's still planning to vote for him.
 
Plus, earlier this month, she won the NCAA Women's Basketball national championship, again. And today, she is leading the parade at Disney World.
 <br>[13:14:39]
 
South Carolina women's Basketball Coach Dawn Staley joining me live. Next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. When you end the season as undefeated national champions, there is only one thing to do. go to Disney World. That's where the head coach of South Carolina -- University of South Carolina women's basketball team is right now after winning the NCAA championship early this month, beating Iowa and Caitlin Clark to end the season 38 zip.
 
It's the gamecocks second title in the past three years and third in the last eight. Who was the one who built this dynasty? Well, head coach Dawn Staley with the polka dot Mickey ears and all.
 <br>[13:20:02]
 
She is joining us live from Orlando. Congratulations. Three-time, 2017, 2022, 2024 national championship winner for NCAA women's basketball.
 
All right. So, it's been three weeks now. It seems like it was last night, however. What -- how are you feeling? Euphoric, exhausted, more driven than ever? What?
 
DAWN STALEY, HEAD COACH, SOUTH CAROLINA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: I'm feeling a lot of emotion right now.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
STALEY: But one is just elated. I'm actually here at Walt Disney World. No better place in the world to be. Smiling faces, the sun is shining, I get to do it with our staff members in. It's been an awesome experience so far.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, that's so great. Because the ladies, you know, all of your players, they are finishing up their final exams. Right?
 
So, they are not there. You in the staff are. And you've been leading the parade there at Disney. So, I wonder among the perks, now, you know, do you get to kind of skip the lines when you, you know, take to all those rides out there.
 
STALEY: I'm taking advantage of being present right here. So, yes, we got a chance to go, see the Safari. We are not going to get on as many rides. Because if we do that, we'll have an experience that our players won't get a chance to experience. So, we'll wait until we'll all come back together.
 
They're on my phone texted me, saying, you left us. You didn't do -- you didn't -- you didn't bring us with you. You'll get your chance. I just have to take care a little bit.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, that is so cool. Well, I love that you are in the moment. But I also have to, you know, ask you to reflect if you don't mind. You know, so much has happened, you know, in the last three weeks.
 
I mean, everyone's still celebrating you. Your legacy, your leadership, and those ladies, and then to see, you know, your player, Kamilla Cardozo, you know, get drafted into the WNBA as third pick last year, you had five players drafted.
 
I mean, what are those conversations that you have with your players leading up to a moment like that?
 
STALEY: Well, I'm just especially proud because, I do D-myself a dream merchant and when you're able to have as many players into the WNBA draft and get drafted on draft night, it's really nothing more that you can say besides congratulations. Good because they worked extremely hard to put themselves in that situation. They had the sacrifice of their parents and their siblings, because they missed a whole lot of celebration.
 
So, that night on draft night is their night. Kamilla Cardozo in the front -- in front of her mother, and her sister, who actually -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Amazing.
 
STALEY: It was their second time being in the states, seeing her place, and she was in eighth grade.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, God.
 
STALEY: So, it is that moment that you allow their families to just enjoy each other. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. I mean, Kamilla, she was so fun to watch, as were all of your players. I mean, who wasn't rooting for you? I mean, it was just so electric. You know, and overall, yummy women's college ball, and the WNBA have shattered so many records from T.V. viewership, ticket sales, and I else, and now, reported what? $28 million Nike shoe deal with Caitlin Clark, you know, just drafted by Indianapolis WNBA team.
 
And I'm wondering overall, will this lead to other WNBA stars and vets getting a bigger piece of the pie, like larger salaries endorsements? What's your hope?
 
STALEY: Well, I think -- I just think the game is elevated, the collegiate game is elevated. The WNBA is elevated. I do think that you have to give credit where credit's due. Caitlin Clark has elevated. Our viewership here on the collegiate level, she'll do the same in the WNBA space. But if you can give it to her, I think there are more talent that it could be shared amongst all of them, but every now and then, you come across a player, like Caitlin, who's a generational talent that elevated, you know, sometimes you need that player to open up doors that were once close to the rest of the league.
 
So, I'm looking forward to see where we go as collegiates, and where we go as pros and I hope that the corporations are as giving to the overall league as they are Caitlin Clark.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. And I -- and I wonder, are you hoping that, that is going to happen, you know, very soon? You know, not, you know, waiting another year until the next championship or whatever. But I mean, do you see that it is going to happen rather quickly? And some of these large companies are going to reevaluate and start thinking about, you know, these vets, though, some who are already deserving, who've already, you know, proven that they too, are very popular and have changed the game.
 
STALEY: Well, the fact that we're having conversations like I'm here on CNN, talking about women's basketball, talking about the growth of our game, so we need to continue to start having these uncomfortable, but right conversations about our game to continue to allow it to elevate because there is -- there is more talent.
 
Caitlin Clark is one of many talented individuals that's in our game on a collegiate level, and on the pro-level.
 <br>[13:25:02]
 
And I do think she is going to bring light to all of it, because she was in the national championship game three weeks ago. I know people tuned in to see her play. But in the process, they saw a very good South Carolina women's basketball team that won a national championship. So, there is a lot of hidden figures and hidden talents in our game that there must be showcased.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes -- 
 
STALEY: Immediately.
 
WHITFIELD: Absolutely. I mean, you and your team, fierce, period. Hands down. So, you know, something else I am really enamored by about you. I've watched and listened to so many of your interviews, read about them. And you are so consistent and talking about the team as a family, and the importance of knowing the families where these ladies come from. I mean, you just mentioned, you know, Kamilla and her family.
 
You know, why is that? And why do you zero-in on that in recruitment, until team building overall?
 
STALEY: What I think is really important to include, there are a lot of dynamics to young people nowadays, they have their parents, they have their trainers, they have their significant others, and everybody wants them to be successful.
 
You can't, because they come to you on a collegiate level, you can't tune out all those people that help them become who they are. I'm inclusive, I want them a part of their journey, a part of their process, because you wait. While you're trying to get a player to be a professional athlete and create pro habits, you need everybody. You need everybody, the entire family along the ride, creating pro habits, because it's not just the athlete, it's everybody around them that there really has to understand their part in helping that -- the young mind grow to a place where they are representing their family, their representative, the college, they, you know, they are -- they're attending -- they are representing the entire game.
 
So, I want everybody that has an ear. In our players heads, I want them to be a part of our family, because we don't want one saying one thing and the other saying something else. We all have to be speaking the same language. So ultimately, our players get the prize of being exactly who they want to be, and capture the goals that they want to capture.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. I mean, your legacy is so impressive. I mean, you know, after playing for the University of Virginia, playing in the WNBA, being inducted into Women's Basketball Hall of Fame, three-time Olympic gold medalists, gold medal Olympic team coach, and again, three-time national NCAA Women's Basketball champ coach.
 
So, how in the world have you fit all of this in? What's your secret sauce? You know, what do you -- what are you going to do to refuel your battery so to speak?
 
STALEY: I mean, when the season ends, you wanted to end on a high note and to win national championships. So, you can imagine how much strength and how much energy comes with winning. So, I am on a natural high because we did win a national championship, we did it in undefeated fashion. So, if they can all in this way, I'll have the energy to do interviews. I had to energy to come to Walt Disney, well, I have the energy to do whatever it is to uplift our game.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow.
 
STALEY: Because it's an awesome game.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
STALEY: It's an -- it's an awesome game that, you know, lives and dreams are being realized. So, it's a beautiful thing for me.
 
WHITFIELD: Well, your energy is contagious as is your enthusiasm and it's been so great watching you all of these years and seeing you and your team of remarkable ladies there with the Gamecocks just soar and win that championship.
 
Congratulations. And hey, enjoy Disney coach Dawn Staley.
 
STALEY: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coach, thank you so much.
 
All right. Coming up. U.S. Supreme Court justices seem skeptical that former President Donald Trump has absolute immunity.
 
The latest on the hearing on Trump's presidential immunity claims, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:33:34]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Former Trump-appointed attorney general, Bill Barr, who has said in the past that Donald Trump should be nowhere near the oval office, now says he will still vote for him this November.
 
In an exclusive interview with CNN, Barr claimed that he believes a Trump presidency would be less dangerous than another term under President Biden.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL BARR, FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL: I think his whole administration is a disaster for the country. KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Is worse than subverting the peaceful transfer of power?
 
BARR: Did he succeed? 
 
COLLINS: Only because Vice President Mike Pence stood in the way. And now the people who are lining up --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COLLINS: -- again say that they will not do what Mike Pence did.
 
BARR: Look, I was very loud in saying I thought it was a whole -- the whole episode was shameful. And I'm very troubled by it. And that's why it's not an easy decision. 
 
But I think when you have a Hobson's choice, you have to pick the lesser of two evils.
 
COLLINS: You're voting for someone who you believe tried to subvert the peaceful transfer of power, that can't even achieve his own policies, that lied about the election even after his attorney general told him that the election wasn't stolen. 
 
And as the former chief law enforcement in this country, you're going to vote for someone who is facing 88 criminal counts?
 
BARR: Well, look, the 88 criminal counts, a lot of those are, in my -- and I said -
 
COLLINS: -- 10 of them are accurate?
 
BARR: The answer the question is yes. I'm supporting -- I'm supporting the Republican ticket.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[13:35:01]
 
WHITFIELD: With me now to talk more about this and other legal matters surrounding the former president is Michael Zeldin. He has a former federal prosecutor and served as Robert Mueller's former special assistant at the Department of Justice. 
 
Good to see you, Michael.
 
MICHAEL ZELDIN, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: Hi ya, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So, as a former attorney with the Department of Justice, what's your reaction to the former top law enforcement officer in the nation saying the current president is a bigger threat to democracy than Trump, who Barr has said was unfit for office due to his efforts to overturn the 2020 election?
 
ZELDIN: Well, it's not very different than Senator McConnell saying the same thing. These guys, in the end, are Republicans and believe in the Republican ideology, the Republican pragmatic philosophy. 
 
And to them, anyone that deviates from those views is a threat to our country. And, yes, they're making a Hobson's choice, as Barr described it. 
 
But to them, policy trumps the individual candidate and they'd rather have the policy and worry about the -- constraining the candidate, the president, as Barr thinks he did with Trump. 
 
So it goes sort of with the territory. If you're of that political frame of mind that's what you're sticking with.
 
WHITFIELD: So what are your concerns -- 
 
ZELDIN: That is what it is.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. You said not great. I mean, so what are your concerns about the message that Barr might be sending about the rule of law?
 
ZELDIN: It's a terrible message. What he's -- he's talking out of, you know, both sides of his mouth, in a sense. 
 
He's saying, on the one hand, this guy is a threat and he engaged in horrible conduct. But you know what? I'll support him anyway because he is a free trader or a globalist or any other of the policies that the Republicans stand for. 
 
And I think that, as a former attorney general -- and I worked for him. We were in the Justice Department at the same time. I like him. 
 
I just don't respect his point of view with respect to what matters most and what matters most specifically out of the mouth of an attorney general who is obligated to put the rule of law first and foremost in the best interest of our country. 
 
WHITFIELD: OK. Let me pivot now to the Supreme Court hearing this week on Trump's presidential immunity claims. Based on what you heard in those oral arguments, what do you expect the justices are considering? 
 
ZELDIN: I think that they are going to reject Trump's absolute immunity for former presidents. I think that they're going to rule, I don't know, 7-2, 6-3, that official acts can obtain some form of immunity, but private acts will not.
 
That they will send it back to the lower court to figure out whether, in this case, there are charged private acts that can go forward or just official acts. 
 
I think that the judge will hold some sort of hearing -- that's where the real devil in the details is -- to determine what can go forward. And then I think there'll be a trial.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, OK. And then how long do you think it will take for a decision to come from the Supreme Court?
 
ZELDIN: They really should do it in very short order. They didn't take this case in December when they probably should have. They waited a long time before they decided to take it after the court of appeals rendered its decision.
 
They waited a month before having oral arguments. They have until the end of June, effectively, Fred, to make a decision. But I really think they should do it in May if they can come to an agreement.
 
And let this case go back to the court so that it can be tried, so that the American people can determine whether or not former President Trump violated the law or did not violate the law. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Michael Zeldin, great to see you. Thanks so much.
 
ZELDIN: Thanks, Fred. 
 <br>[13:38:56]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Iran's government is striking a defiant stance toward Israel and the U.S. But the Iranian people are concerned about the escalating tensions. We're live in Tehran, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:43:46]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. In Iran, the rhetoric gets harsher as tensions escalate with Israel. And amid the ongoing war in Gaza, the U.S. is being denounced for its continued support of Israel.
 
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen joining us now from Tehran with the very latest.
 
Fred, so how great is the fear for a potential wider conflict between Iran and Israel?
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I would say it's pretty big among a lot of people that we speak to hear on the ground in Tehran.
 
At the same time, of course, you do have the rhetoric also escalating between Iran and Israel. 
 
But also on the ground here in Iran as well, where the Iranians are saying that if they get struck by Israel again, that they will strike back from their own territory. 
 
We heard a lot of that at Friday prayer from the hardliners. Here's what we witnessed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(CHANTING)
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Iran's hardliners flexing their muscles, screaming "Death to America" and "Death to Israel" at Tehran's main Friday prayers.
 
(SHOUTING)
 
PLEITGEN: The staunchly conservative prayer leader saying the Islamic republic will not back down. 
 
(SHOUTING)
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): Iran has warned it will take an even harder line towards the U.S. and towards Israel in the future, saying that if Israel attacks Iran or its assets one more time, the Iranians will strike back from their own territory. 
 <br>[13:45:03]
 
(voice-over): Tensions in the Middle East remain at a boiling point after Iran launched a massive drone and missile attack against Israel in retaliation for the bombing of its embassy compound in Syria, killing several top Revolutionary Guard commanders. 
 
Israel, the U.S. and other allies managed to take down most of the Iranian drones and missiles. But Israel then hitting back with a limited strike against an airfield in central Iran. 
 
The hardliners flying massive Palestinian flags, ripping into Israel's operation in Gaza, and the U.S.'s support for Israel. The message here, Iran is ready for a confrontation.
 
"That, in fact, we are even happy about this," this man says. "We are praying day and night for a second and third attack." 
 
And he says, "We've had these threats for a long time. But the difference is now the people are strong, the IRGC is strong and the army is strong. And we have strong tools."
 
And this cleric says, "If the Islamic Republic of Iran will have more conflicts in the future, it doesn't mean we are warmongering. We're just reacting to the bullies."
 
But on the streets of Tehran, concern the current tensions could escalate and even turn into war. 
 
"I believe the situation will get worse," this man says. "As both sides are more combative, in my opinion, it will lead to war and the calamity for people."
 
This woman says, "We are definitely concerned, worried, but what can we ordinary people do about it?
 
(SHOUTING) 
 
PLEITGEN: Iran's leadership says its military is ready for combat even as they say war is not in their interest.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) PLEITGEN: So there you can see, Fredericka, it's pretty tough talk coming from the hardliners here in Tehran. 
 
And of course, the Iranians have said that even if there is a small strike by the Israelis against Iran's assets in the region or against Iran itself, they will hit back in a really harsh way. 
 
And of course, that does cause a lot of concern, not just here in this country, but in the entire Middle East -- Fredricka? 
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Fred, what are among the ways that Iran might threaten U.S. assets in the region? 
 
PLEITGEN: That's one of the things that the Iranians have been talking about as well. 
 
It's quite interesting because I actually spoke to a former member of the Revolutionary Guard once. And he told me, look, one of the things that the Americans have to understand is, next to every American military base in the Middle East, there is a militia out there that is loyal to Iran, or that cooperates with Iran. 
 
So they say the U.S. needs to watch out. The Iranians can certainly cause a lot of trouble for America in the Middle East -- Fredricka?
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Frederik Pleitgen, in Tehran, thanks so much.
 
And this just into CNN. The U.S. State Department says Secretary of State Antony Blinken will travel to Saudi Arabia to meet with regional partners on Monday, all in hopes of negotiating a hostage deal and a ceasefire in Gaza.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:52:32]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Down to the final seconds, there was an epic overtime ending in the NBA playoffs between the Bucks in the Pacers.
 
CNN's Carolyn Manno has more.
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, as you know, legacies are built in the playoffs and there is no better place to be a legend than Indiana, the birthplace of basketball. 
 
This was a wild affair. We'll pick it up in overtime. Bucks and Pacers tied at 1:15 with 20 seconds to go. Aaron Neesmith hitting his only three-pointer of the night, putting the Pacers ahead. 
 
But the Bucks would answer. Kris Middleton, who made a three in the final seconds of the fourth quarter to force overtime, hitting another one to tie that up. Middleton had 42 points, an incredible effort. 
 
Indie calls a time-out. In the huddle, you can see Tyrese Haliburton telling his team were winning the game right now. 
 
And he did just that. Haliburton driving, drains the game-winner. He finished with 18 points in his first career playoff triple-double as the Pacers outlast the Bucks to take a two one series lead.
 
Elsewhere, things getting chipping. Latent game three between the Mavs and Clippers, Russell Westbrook doing the twist and shout to Luka Doncic, grabbing and spinning Dallas' superstar then giving him a push. 
 
And then P.J. Washington and Westbrook exchange shoves. Before, you know, Russ shoves one of the officials. Both he and Washington get ejected from the game. The Mavs would go on to win by 11 to go up to one.
 
Meantime, in hockey, the New York Rangers are a game away from sleeping the Capitals out of the NHL playoffs. Chris Kreider with a goal in the first, moving him into a type of third on the Rangers' all-time playoff points list.
 
While New Yorks net minder, Igor Shesterkin was absolutely stellar. He finished with 28 saves in the three-ones win. And only four teams, Fred, had gone up through nothing in the NHL and gone on to lose a playoff series. So that's good news for New York, if history is any indication.
 
Eight more playoff games across the NBA and NHL today, including seven on our family of networks, TNT and TBS, starting at 1:00 Eastern. So make sure you're on the couch for those. Lakers, Islanders and Lightning all looking to avoid getting swept. So a lot at stake. 
 
And lastly, if you need any evidence that Chicago Bears fans are pinning their hopes on Caleb Williams as their team savior under center, well, here it is. 
 
Less than 24 hours after taking him with the first pick of the NFL draft, the quarterbacks sphere has already almost completely sold out. According to fanatics, the only jerseys left are the orange adult, double XL and the youth navy blue. 
 
And for fans who maybe pre-ordered the number of 13 that he wore in college, tough break as he is going to instead, where 18 in the Windy City.
 <br>[13:55:04]
 
Fred, Williams breaking the record just set by Caitlin Clark 10 days ago when she was drafted to --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
MANNO: -- the Indiana Fever. So a lot of excitement around the Midwest for two new superstars. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, indeed. All right, they are flying off the shelves, those shirts and jerseys. Carolyn Manno, thank you so much. 
 
All right. With her new album, Beyonce became the first black woman to top Billboard's hot country songs chart. And CNN's new documentary, "CALL ME COUNTRY, BEYONCE AND NASHVILLE'S RENAISSANCE" examines this reckoning in the genre and the historical roots of country music.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When I first heard the two singles drop, I was like that's country.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Beyonce is the greatest entertainer of her generation. The global reach of this person. I'm sure there's aliens who were like, have you heard the new Beyonce?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Beyonce's country each hit number one on Billboard's hot country songs chart. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's a threat of black people being in this genre.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Partisans of country music saying, this is, or that ain't country.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is not like, oh, black people are getting into county -- no, no, no. We've been in country music. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This started a long, long time ago. It seems to be that we've gotten away from that someone when along the way.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who gets to say what country is, what the south is about? 
 
ANNOUNCER: "CALL ME COUNTRY, BEYONCE AND NASHVILLE'S RENAISSANCE" streaming exclusively on Max.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)