Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Polls Close In Taiwan Election; US Strikes In Yemen; Israel- Hamas War; Outrage In Italy; Iowa Republican Caucuses. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired January 13, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:26]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR: And a very warm welcome to our viewers who are in the United States and all around the world, I'm Paula Newton. Ahead right here on CNN Newsroom, more US strikes against Houthi targets in Yemen as Washington continues to warn the Iran-backed group to stop attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea. 
 
And vote counting now underway in Taiwan after polls closed in the self governing island's presidential election. Plus, Israel rejects accusations of committing genocide against Palestinians before the top UN court.
 
It is now 4:00 PM in Taiwan where polls have just closed in the election to choose a new leader and parliament. Now vote counting is getting underway and we may in fact get results in the next few hours. It is a three way race for president with no clear favorites. CNN's Kristie Lu Stout joins us now from Hong Kong with the latest and the suspense here, right?
 
There were a lot of choices on the ballot. And in fact it is historic in many ways.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, definitely. I mean, it is a strong three way race. We're waiting for the results to come in. Voting is wrapped in Taiwan. Millions of people went to the polls. It was a bright and sunny day in Taiwan, which encourage a greater turnout in these key presidential parliamentary elections.
 
Now, the ballots are being counted starting at this hour. It's a process that is famously known as being efficient and transparent. The result will be out this evening. And, of course, China, the US and the world are watching.
 
On your screen you see the three main presidential candidates in Taiwan. You have Lai Ching-te of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party, or the DPP, Hou Yu-ih of the opposition Kuomintang, or KMT, and Ko Wen-Je of the Taiwan People's Party, or the TPP. Now, let's talk about each candidate one by one.
 
Lai Ching-te is currently the vice president of Taiwan. He is also the chairman of the ruling party, the DPP, and he says that he would maintain the status quo and pursue peace through strength if elected. At a recent campaign rally, Lai said this. Let's bring up the quote for you. He said this, "Taiwan stands on the frontline of the confrontation between democracy and totalitarianism." Now, China has denounced his party and has denounced Lai in his views as separatist.
 
The second candidate, Hou Yu-ih, is of the main opposition party, the KMT. He is the mayor of New Taipei City, a longtime police officer. And he says that he will restart talks with Beijing, if elected. That he will engage. And last week Hou said this, let's bring up for you. He's referring to himself in the third person -- first person. He said, Hou Yu-ih opposes Taiwan independence, will allow cross street peace, restart dialogue and exchanges, strengthen national defense and let everyone live in peace in Taiwan." Now his party, of course, the Kuomintang traditionally favors engagement and closer ties with China.
 
And then you have the third presidential candidate, Ko Wen-je of the TPP. He is a former mayor of Taipei. He was a surgeon before getting to politics, and his party's focus on pocketbook issues like housing, like wages, like the high cost of living has really resonated with the youth vote across Taiwan.
 
We're also keeping an eye on the parliamentary election in Taiwan. Both the two major parties, the DPP and the KMT, has said they need to win a majority because a divided government would make it much harder for the next president to advance their agenda. China looms large in this election. And, in fact, the day's running up to the election, a Chinese official call this election a choice between peace and war. China, of course, claims Taiwan as its own territory despite the fact it is never controlled it. Back to you, Paula.
 
NEWTON: Yes. And, Kristie, given what's at stake here, sometimes is difficult to get young voters out to vote. I was looking on social media and, as you said, the weather was good and some young voters really did host how enthusiastic they were about getting out there.
 
STOUT: You know, it's interesting, in the run up to the vote, CNN's team and Taiwan, canvass a number of young voters in Taiwan for their thinking before this day, before the election. These were voters in Taiwan who were in their 20s, their 30s across the political spectrum. And this is what our team in Taiwan found. They found that, number one, they identify is Taiwanese, not Chinese but Taiwanese.
 <br>[03:05:03]
 
Also they said China was not top of mind as an issue that would bring them to the polls. In fact, the other funding that they came across was that the issue that would drive them to the polls were those, as I said earlier, pocketbook issues about the cost of living becoming higher and higher in Taiwan, about affordable housing about the need for public housing. These were the issues that motivated a lot of these young voters that were questioned by seeing his team there on the ground in Taiwan.
 
So the last time we had a presidential election four years ago, a number of younger voters would veer towards the DPP, the ruling party of Taiwan, but a number of voters are now veering more towards that third party, the third party candidate and his party, the TPP. Back to you.
 
NEWTON: Yes, which is what might make this election quite historic. K, there's really some suspense here in the coming hours. We will wait for those results. Kristie Lu Stout for us in Hong Kong, thanks so much.
 
Wen-ti Sung, he's a non-resident fellow with the Atlantic Council GLOBAL China Hub, and he joins us now from Taipei. Really good to see you, Wen.
 
Such an important day in Taiwan now. It is, in fact, crucial to understand Taiwan's strategic and economic importance here, which is a good reason that all of us should pay attention to the fallout from the election. Now, regardless of who wins can you give us some insight into the campaign itself? You know, we just heard Kristie talking about how, you know, some of the economic issues really resonated, even though what we discuss a lot of times are the geopolitical issues.
 
WEN-TI SUNG, NON-RESIDENT FELLOW WITH THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL GLOBAL CHINA HUB: Yes. I mean, economic issue really fell out of borders this time around. I think usually Taiwan election has two main candidates -- so the means for a referendum on China policy. There's a bit more room for other bread and butter issue to come to the floor, at least the election as well.
 
So oftentimes, we hear young border in Taiwan talking about housing prices being a challenge, that they may be less than optimal in terms of creation of good paying jobs for the next generation, and how a younger family may be generally always looking for more assistance, rightfully so internet helping to raise and educate the children, all which, of course, depends on having good governance and a thriving economy. And on that different candidates, of course, have different positions and candidates are the voters are paying attention closely. You can vote accordingly today.
 
NEWTON: Yes. As I said that turnout looks to be quite good at this point. You have pointed out that a divided legislature here will be quite a challenge. How so?
 
SUNG: Yes. So a divided legislature means it's harder for whoever becomes the next president to negotiate with China from a position of strength. I think Beijing, of course, still prefer to have a working relationship with Taiwan than not. However, for, of course, Beijing doesn't like the current ruling party, DPP in Taiwan.
 
However, if Beijing wherever to consider extending all the branch to whoever kind of next Taiwan president, that president better proved to have staying power to have strong control domestically. That's the kind of negotiating partner that Beijing respect. And it's kind of pondered that Beijing may finally be willing to extend all of the branch to, and thereby making stability of power straight a bit more easier to maintain, which is why divided government (inaudible) parliamentary majority makes it a lot harder for that kind of engagement to take place effectively for Taiwan.
 
NEWTON: Yes. It's interesting what you say there in terms of is a lot more nuanced as to how China will react. I mean, given the fact that it has been relatively quiet recently, in terms of China's posture towards Taiwan, and I do say relatively, do you think they calculated that on purpose China did or wanting to just stay out of it to see, you know, if perhaps even being a bit more quiet, they could actually influence the outcome.
 
SUNG: I think Beijing has learned from past experience that going over fire and fury around Taiwan's campaign season especially in closing weeks, generally backfires for them electorally, and actually helped elect more Taiwanese nationalist candidate rather than more dovish candidate on China.
 
Now, I think that's why China has been a bit more lower key this time around for the most part. And some South Korea, we do see China using some selective economic sanctions against how Chinese exports to China for example, as a way to highlight the point that we don't get along with China, then all those pieces of charities in the Chinese market may be more out of reach.
 
But still, I think Taiwanese are not -- that's not new to (inaudible) point, so that kind of economic coercion of threat still facing diminishing returns and don't seem to be very decisively shaping both in Taiwan to Beijing's favor, which is why it's not happening nearly as much this time around.
 <br>[03:10:14]
 
NEWTON: Houthi targets in Yemen have taken another round of pounding from US forces in the region. Several hours ago, the destroyer USS Carney hit a radar site with cruise missiles, that's according to US Central Command. A Houthi run TV station reported airstrikes in the capital Sana'a that came on the heels of a much larger wave of strikes carried out by the US and Britain the day before.
 
Now, this is the aftermath at one of the nearly 30 sites, you see it there, hit in those attacks. Officials say they were in response to repeated Houthi attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea. Houthi is now threatening to retaliate against US and British assets. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YAHYA SAREA, HOUTHI MILITARY SPOKESPERSON (through translation): The American and British enemies bear full responsibility for their criminal aggression against our Yemeni people. It will not go unpunished or unanswered. The Yemeni armed forces will not hesitate to target threatening sources and all hostile targets on land and sea in order to defend Yemen, its sovereignty and independence.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Nada Bashir is monitoring developments for us and joins us now live from Beirut. Good to see you, Nada.
 
So there's been at least, as we've just heard, at least one more strike from the US and allies in the last few hours. Should we assume it's over and if that's the case, it seems the Houthis remain undeterred? NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: That's really we've been hearing from senior leaders within the Houthi rebel group, including the leader of the Houthis, Abdul-Malik Badruldeen, vowing to continue to respond to any aggression targeting Yemen from the United States or its Western allies. But, of course, the expressed intention behind those strikes, both rounds or strikes as carried out by the United States and the United Kingdom, has been to diminish and downgrade the Houthi's abilities and capability to carry out attacks on the Red Sea. And, of course, to retaliate to those strikes both the United Kingdom and the United States characterizing those rounds of strikes on Yemen as an act of self defense.
 
They believe that these strikes, the attacks carried out rather by the Houthi rebels in the Red Sea have destabilize the global supply chains. They're destabilizing and disrupting the global economy. But also, according to military officials, putting lives at risk. And, of course, this has been a key concern for the United States and its Western allies as we continue to see tensions in the region mounting.
 
Now following that round of strikes overnight Thursday into Friday, which of course we saw the United Kingdom, the United States along with support from other international allies carrying out 60 strikes around 16 different locations in Yemen.
 
Now following that, we did see a response from the Houthis. They launched an anti-ship ballistic missile towards a vessel in the Red Sea. It did not actually hit the vessel according to US military officials. But again, we have seen another attempt to retaliate. It's unclear the extent to which those strikes carried out by the US and UK have diminished and downgraded the Houthis military capabilities.
 
But, of course, we have seen a smaller scale retaliation from the Houthis and that has triggered yet another response this time, United States acting unilaterally in their strikes, again smallest round of strikes carried out by the United States overnight.
 
But again, that express intention has been reiterated targeting military assets in Yemen. There is, of course, a huge amount of concern over the disruption being caused by Houthi's attacks along the Red Sea, as well as the potential for those attacks to broaden out across the region. We've seen the Houthis targeting locations in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in the past. And there is concern, of course, for the United States and its allies around their ability and capability to further those attacks more broadly, if there is indeed an escalation.
 
Because we have heard from the internationally recognized government in Yemen, which has criticized the attacks carried out by the Houthis, condemning them for dragging Yemen and what today described as another phase of confrontation and conflicts in the region.
 
NEWTON: Yes. We'll continue to see what transpires in the next few hours. Nada Bashir for us in Beirut, thanks so much.
 
Now, President Joe Biden says he believes the Houthis are a terrorist group as the US considers reapplying that designation to them. That's something that lifted in 2021. And he told reporters the Houthis aren't the only ones who got the message from the American and British attacks in Yemen. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: I've already delivered the message to Iran. They know not to do anything.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Will you continue with the strikes, sir?
 
BIDEN: We will make sure that we respond to Houthis if they continue this outrageous behavior along with our allies.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are we in a de facto proxy war with Iran?
 
BIDEN: No. Iran does not want a war with us.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you willing to call the Houthis a terrorist group, sir?
 
BIDEN: I think they are.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:15:02]
 
NEWTON: Now in Iran meantime on Friday, protesters burned makeshift US, Israeli and British flags to show support for the Houthis in Yemen, and to condemn the airstrikes. And in Yemen, of course, huge crowds gathered in the capital city Sana'a. That was to protest those strikes ahead of the Houthi Supreme Revolutionary Council -- Committee, pardon me, urged the US and the UK to go back to their country and fight racism instead of protecting Israeli ships.
 
For more analysis now, we are joined by Ibrahim Jalal, a non-resident scholar at the Middle East Institute. He's speaking to us now from Vienna. And it's really good to see you. As we've had, again, a second mission out there by both the US and Britain to hit those targets in Yemen. My question to you, will this work? Will it have the deterrent effect that the US and Britain hope -- it hopes it does?
 
IBRAHIM JALAL, NON-RESIDENT SCHOLAR, MIDDLE EAST INSTITUTE: Deterrence has collapsed all together. It is why we've seen 28 Houthi maritime attacks since November 19. So to establish deterrence, it's not even a question. 
 
What the United States and the United Kingdom hope through this surgical military operation is to establish the rules of engagement, to configure power dynamics, and sort of send a military warning to that, you know, surgical military operation that lasted only for a few hours, and targeted more than 70 Houthi positions, mainly in the forms of radar positions, ballistic and missile, and drone assembly workshops, as well as identified military camps.
 
And it's worth to note that the operation had limited capabilities, which indicates its higher precision based on the gathered intelligence. But of course, this military operation has appears thus far as symbolic, but the latest US unilateral strike and independence from the United Kingdom shows that this could also be an open military operation to continue targeting the Houthis.
 
In tactical terms, it does not significantly degrade Houthi capabilities because the Houthis have known that this attack is coming, as seen in multiple warnings. They were told that there is a concentration of the attack, that the attack would happen. 
 
And then they are not yet to the attack, the announcement was made, which gave them enough time to deploy and sort of this further decentralize the large caches of the heavy and medium arms, as well as deploy the high level security, mobility, (inaudible) and hiding tactics, which (inaudible) warfare all the (inaudible) too.
 
NEWTON: I hear you, and I hear you saying that, you know, you think that these strikes were, in fact, quite limited. But if I hear you correctly, are you saying that this was symbolic and not strategic? Do you mean that the Houthis will just continue -- I'm trying to get to what you believe will be the outcome here in the end, because right now it does not seem that they're going to have another broad based attack in Yemen. Right now, what we saw in the last few hours is more surgical.
 
So, what do you think the eventual outcome will be?
 
JALAL: Ah, yes. Thanks for emphasizing the symbolic nature. The outcome doesn't matter as much because it's short term. We have not dealt with the root cause of the threat. We dealt with the symptoms of the threat. And that makes it limited. So the outcome going forward, appears that the Houthis would like to also say face and continue to leverage and exploit the situation in Gaza by, you know, covering, first of all, deploying some of their assets to the Red Sea and other governments where they can launch continued maritime attacks.
 
But also tried to expand them in coordination with the Iran's axis of resistance. In a way to sort of diversify the (inaudible) and therefore sort of attempt to distract the focus on the Houthis alone, given that they took this maritime adventurism. Second effect, obviously, is an expansion in the scope of the targeting of both British and US interests and the agent. These could be in the Gulf, including countries that cooperated with the military operation by offering the airspace order, you know, allowing the facilities to be used in the process.
 
NEWTON: So, Ibrahim, I just want to interrupt you for a moment. If I hear you correctly, in terms of what you're saying is that the United States and their allies started this to end something. But instead of ending something, you're suggesting they might have started something instead.
 
JALAL: Not necessarily. They might end -- they might seek to end Houthi attacks on maritime trade today, but there is no guarantee that they've addressed because, you know, in the event that this would happen in the future and the instances of original turmoil and complex, which needs another security approach, so to speak, it needs security partners present on the ground, it needs an active change of the mili -- of the distribution of power.
 
Because what's happened in the last two months is -- and is making of the West when they froze the capture of data in 2018 and imposed the Stockholm agreement does normalizing the status quo, which was, you know, Houthi presence in Red Sea at the time when they declared defeat in May-June 2018.
 <br>[03:20:23]
 
NEWTON: Now, we have to leave it there. I will point out you also say, in fact that this may increase the popularity of the Houthis within Yemen itself. And I haven't been to Yemen in several years but I have certainly seen their suffering up close. And I'm hoping that no one loses sight of the Yemeni people and how they suffer through these attacks. Ibrahim Jalal for us, thanks so much, really appreciate it.
 
JALAL: Thanks for having me.
 
NEWTON: Now, Israel rejects accusations of committing genocide against Palestinians before the top UN court.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Some, the promise of never again for all peoples is a slogan. For Israel, it is the highest moral obligation.
 
NEWTON: Straight ahead, the second and final day of arguments over Israel's military campaign in Gaza.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: The head of the UN's relief operations in Gaza says teams on the ground there described scenes of "utter horror." Says bodies have been left in the road and people who are clearly starving are begging for help. A warning, some of the images you're about to see may be disturbing. The UN humanitarian affairs official says the health system is in a complete state of collapse. And his team's efforts to deliver aid have been met with delays, denials, and absolutely impossible conditions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARTIN GRIFFITHS, UNDER SECRETARY GENERAL FOR HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS: We have seen since October the 7th is a stain on our collective conscience. Everyone in this room, everyone listening to these words. Unless we act, it will become more than that. An indelible mark on our claims to humanity.
 
We heard yesterday reports that starvation, disease and exposure are beginning to rival the impact of deaths and wounds, and suffering on the people of Gaza from the bombing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) NEWTON: The Israel Defense Forces said on Friday meantime that he killed dozens of militants and operations throughout Gaza including some Hamas commanders. The enclave civil defense spokesperson says Israeli artillery hit Gaza City winning a number of people. The Palestinian Ministry of Health in Ramallah says more than 23,800 people have been killed in Israel attacks in Gaza since October 7th.
 
Now on Friday, Israel rejected accusations of committing against Palestinians in Gaza. That's at the top UN Court. The Israeli government says the allegations "grossly distorted and are an attempt to pervert the meaning of the term." CNN's Melissa Bell has more now from The Hague.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MALCOLM SHAW, LAWYER REPRESENTING ISRAEL: First accord genocide is intent. Without intent, there can be no genocide in law.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Israel defending itself on the second and final day of hearings of the International Court of Justice, refuting claims by South Africa that its response to the attacks on October 7th violates the 1948 Genocide Convention.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The sitting is open.
 
TAL BECLER, LAWYER REPRESENTING ISRAEL: It is respectfully submitted that the application and request should be dismissed for what they are, a libel designed to deny Israel the right to defend itself according to the law from the unprecedented terrorist onslaught it continues to face, and to free the 136 hostages Hamas still holds.
 
BELL: This after South Africa's lawyers argued on Thursday that Israel's leaders were intent on destroying the Palestinians as a group in Gaza.
 
ADILA HASSIM, LAWYER REPRESENTING SOUTH AFRICA: Following seventh October, Israel deployed 6,000 bombs per week, at least 200 times it has deployed 2,000 pound bombs in southern areas of Palestine designated as safe.
 
BELL: On Friday, Israel pushed back.
 
BECKER: The Genocide Convention was not designed to address the brutal impact of intensive hostilities on the civilian population. The convention was set apart to address a malevolent crime of the most exceptional severity.
 
BELL: Israel's lawyers also arguing that genocidal acts were committed by Hamas on October 7th when more than 1,200 Israelis were killed. 
 
BECKER: But if there have been acts that may be characterized as genocidal, then they have been perpetrated against Israel.
 
BELL: Outside the courts, the public's divisions and frustrations on clear display. LARNA, PRO-PALESTINIAN PROTESTER: I'm waiting to see evidence of things they said because I think there's a lot of things that a -- lot of information that is misleading, and that is not really accurate. And so, I'm waiting to see the evidence that they're about to bring forth.
 
BELL: Nearby, pro-Israel supporters had laid a table for Shabbat with plates set for hostages still inside Gaza.
 
SAVID SARANGA, ISRAELI MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS (through translation): On October 7th, Israel was under attack. People were killed, murdered, butchered, raped, burned alive. And today we are the ones who are supposed to give explanations. It's unbelievable.
 
BELL: The question of whether Gazans are the victims of a genocide could take years for the court to rule on far more pressing the question of if and how it will ask Israel to stop its war. Melissa Bell, CNN, The Hague.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Meantime, world leaders worry about the spread of those hostilities further into Gaza and how it could impact the Palestinian people. Now some members of Israel's government have recently talks about plans to "encourage Hamas transfer of Gazans into neighboring countries describing the move as a voluntary relocation." The UN says it strongly opposes the idea. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GRIFFITHS: These statements raised grave concerns about the possible forcible mass transfer of deportation of the Palestinian population from the Gaza Strip. Something that would be strictly prohibited, of course, under international law, and any attempt to change the demographic composition of Gaza must be firmly rejected.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: United States is also against such a move. Its ambassador to the UN says Israeli statements pressuring civilians to leave Gaza are irresponsible and inflammatory. Speaking during the UN Security Council meeting Friday, Linda Thomas-Greenfield said a future where Israelis and Palestinians live side by side in peace is the only way forward.
 
So 98 days after Hamas took scores of people hostage in Israel, their relatives want proof that they're trapped loved ones are getting medical care. The group, the hostages and missing families' forum called on Friday for evidence the hostages are getting the medicine they need. The demand came after the Israeli Prime Minister's Office announced an agreement brokered by Qatar ensuring the transfer of medicine to hostages in Gaza in the next few days.
 <br>[03:30:04]
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKERS (in unison): We are here for you. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Rami (ph).
 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKERS (in unison): We are here for you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: And ahead of the war's 100 day mark, hundreds of protesters gathered at a caboose in southern Israel, they wanted to focus attention on the physical and sexual violence female hostages may be experiencing in captivity.
 
UN forces fire more missiles at Houthi military sites in Yemen, but the group tries to use Western strikes to line up more political support at home. That's ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: Welcome back to our viewers here in the United States and around the world, I'm Paula Newton. And you are watching CNN Newsroom.
 
And more now on Taiwan's crucial election, polls closed a short time ago, and as you can see there live pictures of the vote counting that is underway. It is expected to be an efficient affair. The results will determine who will be the self governing island's next leader.
 
It is a three way race for president with no clear favorite. The closely watched election comes amid growing tensions with China, which has worried some voters
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What if the Democratic Progressive Party doesn't change the direction, I think that war could happen in our generation agenda.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Now we will, of course, we'll bring you the latest information as we continue to get results from that election.
 
And we want to bring you right up to speed with the latest on new US strikes in Yemen. Several hours ago, the Destroyer USS Carney hit a Houthi radar site with cruise missiles, that's according to US Central Command. Houthi run TV station reported airstrikes in the capital Sana'a. It's the second strike on Houthi targets in as many days.
 
These before and after images that you see there show the damage at one of the nearly 30 sites that were hit by the US and Britain Friday. They say the strikes are a response to Houthi attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea. And as our Nic Robertson reports, the Houthis are trying to use the situation, in fact, to rally political support at home.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Iran-backed Houthi is whipping up anti-American and anti-Israeli anger, chanting death to America, death to Israel, curse the Jews.
 
We condemn the criminal terrorist strikes on the Yemeni people by Israel, America and Britain, he says. We have been at war for eight years, these strikes don't frighten us. Familiar with war because a decade ago the Houthis, a minority religious sect in this the poorest country in the Arab world, overthrew the internationally recognized government, seizing army weapons stockpiles, triggering a festering civil war and famine, drawing in Saudi and the UAE, backing the real government, hitting Houthis with airstrikes.
 <br>[03:35:27]
 
I've been witness to some of it. The positioning of these valves on the side of the missile that convinced the Saudis, this is Iranian manufactured.
 
The Houthis, backed by Iran, targeted Saudi with Iranian made cruise missiles and hit the UAE with drones. Inside Yemen, rag-tag Saudi- backed government troops failed to oust the Houthis from the capital. We're keeping low here because we've been told the Houthis might be able to see us.
 
Government lines often on demand, fighters hired from local tribes. Without money few fought. April 2022, a fragile truce agreed. Backed by Iran, the Houthis could afford more fighters, had ready supplies of sophisticated drones, cruise missiles and more as recently as last year, putting thousands of uniformed troops and weapons on parade.
 
Their truce and pause in regional aggression ending 12 days after Hamas' brutal October 7th attack, launching missiles at Israel, weeks later escalating attacks on international shipping in the Red Sea that they falsely claim is connected to Israel and now threatening more in support of Gazans.
 
JOHN KIRBY, US NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: This has nothing to do with the war on Gaza. This has to do with them using Iranian-supplied munitions -- Iranian supplied weapons to go after international shipping in the Red Sea.
 
ROBERTSON: Iran and its regional proxies, including Hamas and Hezbollah, accusing the US and the UK of escalating regional tensions to help Israel. While America's regional partners, Saudi and the UAE, worry about escalation, a potential return to Houthi attacks on them.
 
And after this second night of strikes, an already tense region is going to feel even more fragile. The question now not if the Houthis respond but when. Nic Robertson, CNN, Tel Aviv, Israel.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: The White House says it's doing everything it can to avoid any further escalation in the region, and US President Joe Biden is promising to respond to the Houthis if they "continue with this outrageous behavior. CNN's MJ Lee has the latest now from Washington.
 
MJ LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The Biden administration on Friday defending its airstrikes up by the US and the UK are on Houthi assets inside Yemen, saying that this was an act of self-defense, and also that the US has an obligation to protect US personnel abroad, and also protect the flow of commerce in the Red Sea.
 
But here in Washington, we have seen, since those airstrikes, bipartisan criticism against the Biden administration for its decision to launch these airstrikes, namely these congressional members saying that the White House should have forced a gotten permission from Congress. The White House is saying that some notifications were in fact made to some certain members of Congress, including heads of key committees on Capitol Hill and other congressional leaders.
 
And the President himself on Friday responding to the question about the criticism that he has seen from members of Congress, this is what he said in Pennsylvania.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What do you say to members of your own party who are saying you needed congressional authorization for last night's strike?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: They're wrong and I sign up this morning and the strikes occurred exactly what happened.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEE: And we should also note that the White House is also defending the fact that Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin oversaw these airstrikes while still in the hospital. John Kirby, a White House spokesperson, saying on Friday that that whole operation was executed seamlessly by the defense secretary. And one senior administration official that I spoke with, who has been in touch with Secretary Austin in recent days multiple times, said that he had sounded completely normal, and that he was very much in command of all of the issues.
 
But, of course, the reality is that the White House and the Pentagon are still fielding a lot of questions and a lot of criticism about the fact that the defense secretary had been hospitalized recently. But that four days, even the senior most administration officials, including the President himself was not even aware that he had been in the hospital. And that is why there is now a government wide review of what happened, and the White House sort of promising that this kind of thing would not happen again. MJ Lee, CNN, the White House.
 <br>[03:40:14]
 
NEWTON: The US Navy is searching for two sailors who reported missing off the coast of Somalia. US Central Command says the sailors were conducting operations Thursday but no additional word on exactly what the sailors were doing when they went missing. A small US military operation is based in Somalia to train local forces and to work with the Somali government to carry out strikes against the extremist Al- Shabaab militant group there.
 
Now extreme weather could impact voter turnout in Iowa's Republican caucuses Monday. Blizzard warnings have already forced candidates to cancel events during the critical final days of the campaigning. We'll have that and much more after a break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak visited Kyiv on Friday promising Ukraine more military funding as Russia's war grinds on. Comes at a critical time when aid packages from the US and the European Union remain stalled. Sunak also signed a new security agreement with Ukraine that its President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called unprecedented.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RISHI SUNAK, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: I want to send a strong signal of support to the Ukrainian people but also a strong signal of support that Vladimir Putin needs to recognize we're not going anywhere. I'm here with one clear message the United Kingdom stands with Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: During his trips, Sunak, toward a military hospital in the capital and met with wounded soldiers. Zelenskyy awarded some of the metals and thanked them for their service.
 
Ecuador says hundreds of people have been arrested now that was since Tuesday, and that effort began to stop the outburst of gang violence that's going on right across the country. Ecuador says 94 of those detained are members of terrorist groups. The country has dealt with a recent wave of police kidnappings, explosions and prison disturbances, including the escape of one of Ecuador's most powerful drug lords earlier this week. Officials say at least two police officers have been killed during the ongoing violence.
 
To Italy now, we're outrage is growing over a viral video showing a massive crowd of men raising their arms in a fascist salute. It happened last week in the Italian capitol. Barbie Nadeau joins us now from Rome. And, Barbie, safe to say, I mean, the videos absolutely chilling. And safe to say it is still having an effect on those who see it in Italy. Is there any indication that the prime minister will forcefully condemn this?
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: No. You know, we really don't have an indication that she will. And it's a very delicate topic for her. This happened in front of her former political party which is the Neo fascist party here that has been dissolved. It no longer exists. But every year they commemorate the death of three young activists in front of this party headquarters. Two of them were killed in front of the party headquarters by left wing extremists in 1978, and another was killed by police and riots that happened after that.
 <br>[03:45:10]
 
So this particular commemoration, including this fascist salute by all of these people happens every year, no matter who's in charge. Whether it's a left wing government or right wing government, like we have right now under Giorgia Meloni. She didn't condemn it. In fact, she said that the gratuitous attacks surrounding it were just unnecessary because her government is doing so well. So I don't imagine she's going to say anymore, it would be very delicate for her to do that could distance her from her base, you know, she's got a very right wing base.
 
You know, what happened a week ago, but the thing that's important here is it happens every year, including this fascist salute. And that is something that, you know, is being debated in this country. And greater, you know, greater Europe is going to be taking it up next week, Tuesday. Paula?
 
NEWTON: Yes. And some had mentioned that what happened there may have actually been against the law. Do we know if prosecutors are considering any charges?
 
NADEAU: You know, there is an investigation, and they've identified about a dozen people who are extreme right wing politicians, it belongs to some very extreme right wing parties here. These are people who have previous, you know, law -- they've been previously arrested, let's say, for right wing -- extreme right wing activity. They're looking at that.
 
And it's really up for debate, you know, having a fascist party or developing a fascist party is against the law. Propaganda and apologizing for fascism is against the law. And so if this fascist salute had happened say in front of Mussolini's tomb in the north of Italy, or it had happened, you know, is something related to Benito Mussolini, it would be against the law. But this was a commemoration for the death of three young men, and it was attended by people from the left wing too. They left before the salute took place.
 
It really remains to be seen if they're going to be any arrest. But the police are investigating. They're looking at it to try to figure out what law, if any, was broken and by whom. Paula?
 
NEWTON: OK. Barbie Nadeau will you continue to follow this story for us. Really appreciate it.
 
Now to the US where severe weather, and I mean severe, is having an impact on the first nominating contest in the race for the White House, the Iowa Republican caucuses. Blizzard warnings forced candidates to cancel some events on Friday, and those conditions will remain in place through Saturday evening. Parts of Iowa have already seen the snowiest week since 1942. Additional accumulations could impact candidates plans to barnstorm the state this weekend.
 
But of course, the big question is how all of this will affect the turnout on those caucuses on Monday. CNN's Jessica Dean is in Iowa with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN REPORTER: With three days until the Iowa caucuses, the snow fell and fell, and fell, and campaign scrambled.
 
RON DESANTIS (R), PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN: You have to go and trudge through snow to be able to earn the vote. You trudge through snow.
 
DEAN: The snowfall is set to be followed by dangerously frigid temperatures heading into caucus day on Monday. Former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley canceled all of her in-person events on Friday, instead opting for tele-town halls.
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am so sorry that we couldn't be in Fort Dodge. But I didn't want to miss the opportunity to be able to communicate for all of you that were planning on coming out to see us on this snowy day in Iowa.
 
DEAN: Most of Florida Governor Ron DeSantis' events were also called off, though he did add a last minute stop to meet with volunteers in Urbandale, Iowa.
 
CRUZ: We can handle the snow even though we're a Florida-based campaign.
 
DEAN: The forecast calls for subzero temperatures in the coming days, with Monday expected to be the coldest caucus state ever in the Hawkeye State.
 
HALEY: I've been doing radio interviews. I've been on the phones with voters. We're trying to make sure we do everything that we can. And yes, the weather is a concern. I'm concerned because I want people to be safe on caucus day. It's going to be negative 28 wind chill. And so what we hope is that they will wear layers, that they will bring their photo ID, and that they will come out in caucus.
 
DEAN: The candidates are already beginning to try and account for the likely record breaking cold on Monday.
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We got to make sure that everybody gets out, doesn't say, well, you know, it's a little cool out.
 
DEAN: Former President and front runner Donald Trump's campaign is already adjusting expectations. His advisors have privately acknowledged to CNN his lead will likely be impacted by the weather on Monday, with much of his strategy built on turning out as many caucus goers as possible. DeSantis and the super PAC aligned with his campaign have long touted their organization and ground game in Iowa, which will be put to the test on Monday.
 
DESANTIS: The people that kind of come in and just, you know, spend tens of millions of dollars and that's kind of it, they tend to underperform but on our side is probably the best that anyone's been able to put together.
 
DEAN: With a flurry of campaign events scheduled for the weekend, the weather could cause further disruptions on the trail with the entire GOP field planning to barnstorm the state over the next few days. In the meantime, a pro-Haley super PAC has released a new ad to reach voters at home, mocking DeSantis for his past support for Trump.
 <br>[03:50:11] DESANTIS: Make America Great Again.
 
DEAN: And that is the dynamic we have really seen unfold in the last week here on the ground in Iowa, this DeSantis versus Haley dynamic. And to that end, we learned on Friday that Governor DeSantis plans to make a pitstop in South Carolina before he heads to New Hampshire.
 
Now that's non-traditional. Typically the candidates go right on to New Hampshire. It's the next state to vote. But that really, if you trust polling, is coming down to Trump and Haley. It's not a state that's likely going to be quite strong for DeSantis. Instead, he's trolling her a little bit going to her home state of South Carolina, and hopes to perform better there. So that looks us -- takes us ahead to Monday after the caucus here, we now know that the Florida Governor making that unconventional stop in South Carolina before he heads to New Hampshire. Jessica Dean, CNN, Des Moines.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Now the leading Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump got some bad news on two legal fronts. Friday, a federal judge denied his request to postpone his civil trial for damages for defaming E. Jean Carroll. That was set to start Tuesday.
 
Trump wanted a postponement to attend his mother in law's funeral but the judge said Trump is not required to be in court himself, and proceedings will go ahead as planned. And a New York judge ordered Trump to pay nearly $400,000 to the New York Times. Its reimbursement for legal fees incurred fighting Trump's failed lawsuit against the news organization for a 2018 article about his tax information.
 
OK. Up next for us, Europe's longest reigning queen is stepping down, ushering in a new era for one of the world's oldest monarchies. More after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: Sunday will mark the end of an era for Denmark. The Danes beloved monarch, Queen Margrethe II will abdicate the throne and her eldest son, Prince Frederik, will become king. CNN's Max Foster has more now on this historic occasion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A new year, a new era for Denmark and for one of the world's oldest monarchies. Queen Margrethe II will end her reign of more than half a century, a shock decision delivered in a live address to the Danish people on New Year's Eve.
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II, DENMARK (through translation): I have decided that now is the right time. On the 14th of January 2024, 52 years after I succeeded my beloved father, I will step down as Queen of Denmark.
 
FOSTER: Denmark's ruler became Europe's longest reigning monarch after the death of Britain's Queen Elizabeth in 2022. Queen Margrethe put the decision down to her fragile health. Recent surgeries on her back have limited her royal duties.
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II (through translation): The time takes its toll and the number of ailments increases. One cannot undertake as much as one managed in the past.
 
FOSTER: That sense of duty won the hearts of the Danish people, and drew comparisons to Queen Elizabeth to whom are greater look to for some inspiration. Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen was quick to praise the only monarch that many Danes will ever have known. "On behalf of the entire population, I would like to extend a heartfelt thank you to Her Majesty the Queen for her lifelong dedication and tireless efforts for the kingdom," Frederiksen wrote in a statement.
 
Like other constitutional monarchies, the Danish sovereign stays above politics but feathers can be ruffled. In 2022, the Queen removed the titles of prince and princess from the children of her second son, Prince Joachim. It was an effort to reduce the royal establishment and allow her grandkids more privacy.
 
But Prince Joachim went public with his four children's hurt feelings, and Queen Margrethe later apologize but did not change her decision.
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II: There was more pressure on the young people of today than there were -- there was when I was a child.
 
FOSTER: My greatest decision to abdicate places the weight of the crown upon her eldest son's head, Prince Frederik, a man equally faithful to the crown but with a slightly more reserved public persona. Frederik will rule alongside his Australian born wife, Princess Mary. The royal couple met at a bar in Sydney during the 2000 Olympics, Mary Donaldson, a marketing executive from Tasmania swept into a fairy tale.
 
QUEEN MARGRETHE II: I really like her very much indeed. And she, I hope, knows that in the future.
 
FOSTER: The new queen won't have far to look for a role model. Max Foster, CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: United Airlines says it will ground its entire fleet of Boeing 737 Max 9 jets until at least Tuesday. It said the planes will not fly until they are approved and it is confident the planes are 100% safe. United typically has about 200 Max 9 flights every day, 171 of those planes are grounded in the US as Alaska Airlines and United await updated guidance from federal authorities. United's announcement comes one week after an absolutely terrifying incident on Alaska Airlines flight when a door size section blew off the side of the plane in mid flight.
 
I'm Paula Newton, I want to thank you for your company. Kim Brunhuber will be here with more CNN Newsroom in just a moment. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)