Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Biden Speaks After Israel Confirms Forces Are In Central Rafah; Biden Speaks On Trump's Conviction On 34 Felony Counts; Biden: Israel Has Offered "Roadmap" To Ceasefire; Biden: "Reckless, Dangerous, Irresponsible" For Trump To Say His Trial Was Rigged. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired May 31, 2024 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: After careful deliberation, the jury reached a unanimous verdict. They found Donald Trump guilty on all 34 felony counts. 
 
Now he'll be given the opportunity, as he should, to appeal that decision, just like everyone else has that opportunity. That's how the American system of justice works. 
 
And it's reckless, it's dangerous, it's irresponsible for anyone to say this was rigged just because they don't like the verdict. Our justice system has endured for nearly 250 years. And it literally is the cornerstone of America.
 
Our justice system. The justice system should be respected. And we should never allow anyone to tear it down. It's just as simple as that. That's America. That's who we are. And that's who will always be, God willing. 
 
Now, another issue. I -- I want to give an update on my efforts to end the crisis in Gaza.
 
For the past several months, my negotiators of foreign policy, intelligence community and the like have been relentlessly focused, not just on a ceasefire that would inevitably be fragile and temporary, but on a durable end of the war. 
 
That's been the focus, a durable end of this war. One that brings all the hostages home, ensures Israel's security, creates a better day- after in Gaza without Hamas in power, and sets the stage for a political settlement that provides a better future for Israelis and Palestinians alike. 
 
Now, after intensive diplomacy, carried out by my team, my many conversations with leaders of Israel, Qatar and Egypt, and other Middle Eastern countries, Israel has now offered -- Israel has offered a comprehensive new proposal. It's a roadmap to an enduring ceasefire and the release of all hostages.
 
This proposal has been transmitted by Qatar to Hamas.
 
Today, I want to lay out its terms for the American citizens and for the world. 
 
This new proposal has three phases, three. The first phase would last for six weeks. Here's what it would include. A full and complete ceasefire, the withdrawal of Israeli forces from all populated areas of Gaza, release of a number of hostages, including women, the elderly, the wounded, in exchange for the release of hundreds of Palestinian prisoners.
 
There are American hostages who would be released at this stage and we want them home.
 
Additionally, some remains of hostages who have been killed would be returned to their families, bringing some degree closer to the terrible grief.
 
Palestinian civilians would return to their homes and neighborhoods in all areas of Gaza, including in the north. 
 
Humanitarian assistance would surge, with 600 trucks carrying aid into Gaza every single day. With a ceasefire, that aid could be safely and effectively distributed to all who need it. 
 
Hundreds of thousands of temporary shelters, including housing units would be delivered by the international community. All that and more would begin immediately, immediately.
 
During the six weeks of phase one, Israel and Hamas would negotiate the necessary arrangements to get to phase two, which is a permanent end of hostilities.
 
Now I'll be straight with you. There are a number of details to negotiate to move from phase one to phase two. Israel will want to make sure its interests are protected. But the proposal says, if the negotiations take longer than six weeks from phase one, the ceasefire will still continue as long as negotiations continue.
 
The United States, Egypt and Qatar would work to ensure negotiations keep going. All agreements, all agreements. And until all the agreements are reached and phase two is able to begin.
 
Then phase two. There will be an exchange for the release of all remaining living hostages, including male soldiers. Israeli forces withdrawal from Gaza. 
 
And as long as Hamas lives up to its commitments, the temporary ceasefire would become, in the words of the Israeli proposal, "the cessation of hostilities permanently," end of quote. Session of hostilities permanently.
 
Finally, in phase three, a major reconstruction plan for Gaza would -- would commence. And any final remains of hostages who've been killed would be returned to their families. 
 <br>[13:35:04]
 
That's the offer this down on the table and what we've been asking for. It's what we need. The people of Israel should know they can make this offer without any further risk to their own security because they've devastated Hamas former -- forces over the past eight months.
 
At this point, Hamas no longer is capable of carrying out another October 7th, is one of them Israeli's main objective in this war. And quite frankly, a righteous one. 
 
I know there are those in Israel who will not agree with this plan and will call for the war to continue indefinitely. Some, some are even in the government coalition. 
 
And they've made it clear, they want to occupy Gaza. They want to keep fighting for years. And the hostages are not a priority to them. Well, I've urged leadership in Israel to stand behind this deal, despite whatever pressure comes.
 
And to the people of Israel, let me say this, as someone who's had a lifelong commitment to Israel, as the only American president who has ever gone to Israel at a time of war, as someone who just sent the U.S. forces to directly defend Israel when it was attacked by Iran, I ask you to take a step back and think of what will happen if this moment is lost. 
 
We can't lose this moment. Indefinite war in pursuit of an unidentified notion of total victory will not bring Israel -- will not bring down -- bogged down -- will only bog down Israel and Gaza, draining the economic, military and humanity -- human resources, and further, Israel's isolation in the world. 
 
That will not bring hostages home. That will not, not bring an enduring defeat of Hamas. That will not bring Israel life and security. But a comprehensive approach that starts with this deal will bring hostages home. And will lead to a more secure Israel. 
 
And once a ceasefire and hostage deal are concluded, it unlocks the possibility of a great deal more progress, including, including calm along Israeli's northern border with Lebanon.
 
The United States will help forge a diplomatic resolution, one that ensures Israel's security and allows people to safely return to their homes without fear being attacked. 
 
With the deal, the rebuilding of Gaza will begin. Arab nations and the international community, along with Palestinian and Israeli leaders, to get it done in a manner that does not allow Hamas to rearm.
 
And the United States will work with our partners to rebuild homes, schools and hospitals in Gaza, to help repair communities that were destroyed in the chaos of war.
 
And with this deal, Israel could become more deeply integrated in the region, including -- it's no surprise to all, including who know for a potential historic normalization agreement with Saudi Arabia.
 
Israel could be part of a regional security network to counter the threat posed by Iran. All this progress would make Israel more secure, with Israeli families no longer living in the shadow of a terrorist attack. 
 
All this would create the conditions for a different future, a better future for the Palestinian people, one of self-determination, dignity, security and freedom.
 
This path is available once the deal is struck. Israel will always have the right to defend itself against the threats, to its security, and to bring those responsible for October 7th to justice. 
 
And the United States will always ensure Israel has what it needs to defend itself. If Hamas fails to fulfill its commitments under the deal, Israel can resume military operations. 
 
But those in Qatar have assured me that they are continuing to work to ensure that Hamas doesn't do that.
 
The United States will help ensure that Israel lives up to their obligations as well. That's what this still says. That's what it says. And we'll do our part.
 
This is truly a decisive moment. Israel has made their proposal. Hamas says it wants to ceasefire. This deal is an opportunity to prove whether they really mean it. Hamas needs to take the deal.
 
For months, people all over the world have called for a ceasefire. Now it's time to raise your voices and demand that Hamas come to the table, agrees to this deal and then this war that they began.
 <br>[13:40:08]
 
Of course, there will be differences on the specific details that need to be worked out. That's natural. Hamas come to negotiate, ready to deal, then the Israel negotiations must be given a mandate, the necessary flexibility to close that deal.
 
The past eight months marks heartbreaking pain, the pain and those whose loved other were slaughtered by Hamas terrorists on October 7th, hostage families waiting in anguish, ordinary Israelis whose lives are forever marked by the shattering event of Hamas' sexual violence and ruthless brutality.
 
And the Palestinian people have endured sheer hell in this war. Too many innocent people have been killed, including thousands of children. Far too many had been badly wounded.
 
We all saw the terrible images from the deadly fire in Rafah earlier this week, following an Israeli strike against targeting Hamas. And even as we work to surge assistance to Gaza with 1,800 trucks delivering supplies these last five days, 1,800, the humanitarian crisis still remains.
 
I know this is a subject on which people in this country feel deep passionate convictions. So do I. This has been one of the hardest, most complicated problems in the world. There's nothing easy about this, nothing easy about it. Through it all, though, the United States has worked relentlessly to support Israeli security, get humanitarian supplies in the Gaza, to get a ceasefire and a hostage deal to bring this war to an end. 
 
Yesterday, with this new initiative, we've taken an important step in that direction.
 
I want to level with you today as to where we are and what might be possible. But I need your help. Everyone who wants peace now must raise their voices and let the leaders know they should take this deal, work to make it real, make it lasting, and forge a better future out of the tragic terror attack and more.
 
It's time to begin this new stage. The hostages can come home, for Israel to be secure, for the suffering to stop. It's time for this war to end for the day after two began.
 
Thank you very much. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Mr. President, can you talk to us about --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Do you think that condition will have an impact on --
 
We'd love to hear your thoughts, sir.
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION)
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: All right. Not going to comment on the --
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: No.
 
KEILAR: -- politics of the -- that was on the verdict, right? 
 
SANCHEZ: It seemed like he might. He sort of teased that he might --
 
KEILAR: Though about it.
 
SANCHEZ: -- with his body language. Then he walked straight out of the room. 
 
KEILAR: No. So he -- there were saying it is time for this war, the Israel-Hamas war, to end and for the day after to begin.
 
Alex, we're learning here of this Israel-proposed roadmap to a ceasefire. We do not have all of the details. 
 
What he laid out there sounds pretty good. Right? Sounds like something everyone should want. But then, we know when we get into the details, things change very quickly. 
 
What struck you about what he said? 
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: It was a good number of details. I mean, what struck me initially was that he's laying out this Israeli roadmap and putting the onus back on Hamas to accept this deal. 
 
But then going on to say that there will be some in the Israeli leadership who will not want to accept it. And then he made a direct appeal to the Israeli people to pressure their leaders to accept this deal. 
 
It is clear that Biden is tired of this war and he wants this war to end. 
 
Some of the details in the three-phase plan that he laid out we knew, in terms of the hostages who would be released, the hundreds of Palestinian prisoners who would be released in that first six-week phase of the deal. 
 
What's really interesting and what I was really listening out for was the phase two of the deal. And this is kind of where Hamas and the Biden administration are actually on the same the page.
 
Because they don't want the war to start back up again after the first phase, after the first batch of hostages is released. They want, both Hamas and the White House, want this first positive six weeks to flow seamlessly into a second phase, at which point there would be a permanent end to the hostility. 
 
So cracking open the door to this ceasefire, the administration has said for a long time, could eventually lead to the end of the war. 
 <br>[13:45:05]
 
This is a good deal for Hamas. If I'm understanding it correctly, if the pause starts, it will continue as long as negotiations go on.
 
KEILAR: It could be more than six weeks though.
 
MARQUARDT: It could be more than six weeks. And we've reported that Hamas had actually demanded that the first phase actually, in effect, be 12 weeks and then the permanent ceasefire starts. 
 
So this could be a good deal for them. Because the major sticking point has been this question about an end to the war. Israel has not been willing to commit to language that would end the war because they feel like they still have to dismantle Hamas. 
 
So my question right now is, is Prime Minister Netanyahu willing to agree to a deal that, in effect, could end this war in Gaza? 
 
SANCHEZ: Let's get perspective from Jerusalem now with CNN's Jeremy Diamond, who's live there for us.
 
Jeremy, it's notable that some of the details coming out of this deal are coming from the U.S. president and not Prime Minister Netanyahu. What do you make of how this will be received? 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think the very fact that President Biden is coming out and laying out, in more detail than he ever has, a proposal that is actually on the table here is notable in and of itself.
 
And it tells you, the fact that American officials clearly believe that there needs to be enormous public pressure brought right now, not only on the Israeli leadership, which he talked about in talking about Israeli please, this is a good deal, and talking about the way in which this can set up a long-term path to security for the Israeli people. 
 
But he also focused on the people who are out protesting in the streets around the world calling for a ceasefire. And he urged them to now turn their attention to pressure Hamas to accept this deal. 
 
And so he was clearly trying to pressure both parties at the negotiating table to try and -- and accept this proposal. 
 
We should note, of course this is Israel's latest proposal based on the way that the president was describing it. 
 
The second thing is, I think Alex is right to focus on the kind of -- the way in which phase one would go into phase two. 
 
And what seems to be the newest part of this proposal is the fact that negotiations to lead into a permanent end to the hostilities, to lead into that phase two, would continue and the ceasefire would continue along with it until there is an agreement. 
 
And that appears to be perhaps an elegant way of trying to get a lasting ceasefire without forcing Israeli -- Israel's political leadership to agree to that at the very beginning of these negotiations.
 
Which is something that they have refused just to do, something the Israeli prime minister has refused to do. And this allows them to do it at a point in time where hostages are being released. 
 
And also where for the ceasefire is already dragging on to the point where starting up the war again is going to be very challenging for the Israeli military. 
 
We should note, though, that that's still does not Hamas' position. Hamas wants an end to the war at the very beginning of this agreement or wants Israel to at least agree to that at the very beginning so that it carries directly into that phase two without any negotiations. 
 
And we should also note that Hamas this week has been entrenched in its position even further, saying that they won't even agree to negotiate right now until Israel stops its military operations in Gaza. 
 
KEILAR: All right, so we'll have to see how this is received.
 
Jeremy Diamond, live for us in Jerusalem, thank you. 
 
We will be coming back to this. As we just heard from President Biden, Israel has offered this road map forward here in negotiations with Hamas. A lot up in the air. Often these things fall apart. So we're going to see if that changes. 
 
But let's talk now about what the president mentioned at the top. He commented on the verdict, the unanimous conviction of former President Trump. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, the president saying that, quote, "The American principle that no one is above the law was reaffirmed yesterday with this decision." 
 
He emphasized that is how the U.S. system of justice works. And he went after the former president and some of his backers saying that it is reckless to say that it is rigged. 
 
We want to get some perspective now from Kristen Holmes, who has been following the Trump trial and the Trump campaign very closely.
 
Kristen, what did you hear from President Biden in regard to this verdict of Donald Trump and the way that Trump has responded to it? 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, look, this is a very different speech than what we heard from Donald Trump. 
 
I understand that this is not all about Donald Trump. But Biden remained on message. And he said the things that Democrats wanted him to say and the people expected him to say, which was that no one is above the law. 
 
And also, as you mentioned, and I think this part is very critical, that they found Donald Trump guilty on all 34 felony counts and then saying, "It is reckless, dangerous and irresponsible to say that the Trump trial was rigged."
 
And that is a core argument of the former presidents. That's essentially all he said today in his speech that was rambling and a huge airing of grievances. 
 <br>[13:50:01]
 
Donald Trump wants to make this a political campaign issue. He wants to blame on President Joe Biden and say that he is a "political prisoner," quote, unquote. That was an actual (INAUDIBLE) email that Donald Trump says out tonight.
 
And Biden clearly separating himself from that (INAUDIBLE) talking strictly on the verdict. He also said at one point that he has the right to appeal, like any other person.
 
I'm sorry. Again, we're meeting here by the bus stop, guys. 
 
But the most important takeaway here is that this, to me, is that this is going to be a political issue moving forward. And both sides see that as such. 
 
Donald Trump spent a lot of time today. He could have talked about immigration. He could have talked about the economy, things that his team believes will help him win in November. 
 
Instead, he aired his grievances. And in fact, there's some concerns that he breached his gag order because he went after one of the lead witnesses, not by name, but very clearly attacking Michael Cohen and calling him a sleazebag. 
 
Joe Biden separating from this, saying he can make his appeal, that they should not -- that calling this a rigged trial is reckless.
 
But I think this is just the beginning of how we're going to see this play out in the political sphere ahead of November.
 
KEILAR: All right, Kristin, thank you. 
 
And let's bring in Priscilla Alvarez.
 
Priscilla, let's play a little bit of what we just heard from President Biden as he commented at the top of these remarks in the Middle East about the verdict of former President Trump. Here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: They found Donald Trump guilty on all 34 felony counts. Now he'll be given the opportunity, as he should, to appeal that decision, just like everyone else has that opportunity. 
 
That's how the American system of justice works. And it's reckless is dangerous, it's irresponsible for anyone to say this was rigged just because they don't like the verdict.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Priscilla, how has the president and the White House been weighing how to respond appropriately to this conviction? 
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, and this was notable because it is the first time that we heard directly from the president about this verdict. 
 
I think it is important here to note exactly how he laid this out. He was quite technical in his language in describing how the justice system works, and how this verdict was reached, noting, for example, the jurors.
 
And also going on to say, quote, "No one is above the law. That principle has been reaffirmed." 
 
And it's important to note that, because that is been the fine line that this White House has had to walk over the course of this trial. 
 
They have been relatively quiet because they didn't want to give any perception that this had anything to do with the federal government or pushing along the claims of the president was involved. The fact the president noted, this was a state case, not a federal case. 
 
And so the campaign has really been leading the charge over the last few hours in sort of attacking what has happened and saying that the former president in his remarks earlier today is, quote, "unhinged.
 
But that's been the campaign link to the charge. The White House has had it -- has a much more difficult time and has had to walk this fine line. 
 
And that's when you saw the president doing today, sort of taking a somber tone, talking about the American justice system, and noting again that it is, quote, "irresponsible" to say it's rigged. 
 
And that again, has been the challenge for the administration. It could very much still be the challenge moving on in the next few weeks. And that is where we sort of see the campaign take the baton, where they could be more forceful, more aggressive in their language in talking about this trial.
 
We know there has been talk about whether or not they should be calling him, him being the former president, a criminal. We've seen the statements be a little more forceful.
 
But at the end of day, what the campaign message is going to be is that this needs to be decided at the ballot box not in the courtroom. 
 
So again, the president, notable moment. He weighed in on this for the first time. It has been a historic moment. But he really took the moment here to be very technical in his description of what occurred yesterday.
 
SANCHEZ: Priscilla Alvarez, from the White House, thank you so much. 
 
Let's get some perspective now from Judge George Grasso. 
 
Judge, thanks so much for being with us. 
 
Your reaction to what we just heard from President Biden regarding the American justice system?
 
GEORGE GRASSO, RETIRED JUDGE, QUEENS COUNTY SUPREME COURT: "Reckless, dangerous and irresponsible." The attacks by now-convicted felon, Donald Trump, and his minions. Let's be clear here, this is on our jury system, this is on our judicial system, and this is on the rule of law. 
 
I don't think President Biden could have said it more clearly, more succinctly or more directly. This is a very dangerous moment in our history, what's happening right now. 
 <br>[13:54:59]
 
KEILAR: We've been listening, Judge, to your analysis of the trial throughout. You were inside the courthouse for it. And day in, day out, you were kind of calling balls and strikes, pointing out when the prosecution, in your view, was not doing as well as they showed or when the defense was doing well. 
 
But clearly, you feel very passionately about some of the diatribes being leveled at the justice system here. I would like to go through some of the things that we've heard from
 
 former President Trump's team, where they're saying things like this case never should have been tried. There are Democrats who thinks this shouldn't have been, certainly, the first case that was tried. 
 
But I wonder what you think about that -- that point that is made? 
 
GRASSO: The timing of the cases being tried wasn't decided by our political system. It was decided by our legal system. 
 
This was the case that was brought forward. I think it was abundant evidence to support the indictment. I've said that from the beginning.
 
But I've also said and I've spoken to you on occasion right out of the courthouse that we have a confrontational system.
 
When -- when the witness was -- when Michael Cohen was caught flat- footed by Todd Blanche on a crucial October 24th phone call, I called that right out and I said that was a powerful moment for the defense.
 
And I'll have to say, Judge Merchan, who continues to be subject to vicious and unfair attacks -- I saw -- you can't call what -- what former president and now-convicted felon Trump did today at the press conference because he took no -- no questions. 
 
But the way he savagely attacks the judge, to go back to that cross- examination of Michael Cohen, I mean, Todd Blanche moved right in. He was yelling at him. He was calling him a liar, a perjurer right in front of the jury.
 
And the judge, as he should, let him have the run. And there were a number of other instances where the judge leaned backwards for the defense. 
 
I'll give you another example. When Stormy Daniels was -- was testifying, on occasion, the prosecution was getting into areas that, clearly, they should not have been getting into in terms of, let's say, the salaciousness of the incident.
 
But meanwhile, the defense was just sitting there and not objecting. The judge objected and sustained objections on his own to protect the defense. 
 
Another instance, when Stormy Daniels was testifying and apparently -- this I didn't hear personally -- but it was subsequently on the record that she was saying things regarding the encounter. All of a sudden, the judge brought the parties to the bench. And then they went back to the bench. 
 
It subsequently came out, what the judge did was he warned them because apparently Defendant Trump was using expletives. But instead of calling that out in front of the jury, the judge did it in a controlled way. 
 
This was a fair trial. There was a mountain of evidence in this trial. Now, the key was ultimately the jury had to believe a damaged witness, Michael Cohen. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. 
 
GRASSO: But they also had abundant evidence to support him. They did so.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. 
 
GRASSO: That's our judicial process. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
GRASSO: What's happening now is a straight-out attack on the rule of law in our country. And we need to stand up to it. 
 
SANCHEZ: And they unanimously convicted Trump of 34 counts. 
 
Judge George Grasso, we very much appreciate you being with us. 
 
GRASSO: Thanks.
 
SANCHEZ: Stay with CNN. We'll be back in just moments.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)