Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Hamas: Political Chief Ismail Haniyeh Killed In Tehran; Kari Lake Wins Arizona GOP Senate Primary; Simone Biles Leads U.S. Women To Gymnastics Team Gold. Aired 5:30-6a ET

Aired July 31, 2024 - 05:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:30:00]
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Appears to be far more hardline when it comes to pushing for this deal and what it wants from Israel in this deal. And Haniyeh had really been considered the interlocutor that was more likely to agree to a deal.
 
So we are seeing, certainly from Qatar's point of view, surprise that this has happened at a time when those talks were really appearing to make some progress. Early on Sunday, there were -- there was a meeting between Qatar-Egypt, the two mediators, and the United States and Israel. 
 
Now, we have heard from the hostage families themselves pushing for this deal to go ahead -- wanting to see the hostages released in return for a ceasefire and potentially, thousands of Palestinian prisoners released, but many experts are now questioning whether this can go ahead. Certainly, in the short term, it seems unlikely. We have heard some very fiery comments and statements from Hamas officials after this assassination calling it a grave escalation, saying it will not pass in vain.
 
Also, hearing from the Iranian supreme leader saying that "You killed our dear guest in our house. We consider it our duty to ask for the blood of our dear guest." 
 
Jessica.
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN ANCHOR:  All right, Paula Hancocks for us in Abu Dhabi. Thank you so much for that reporting.
 
And still to come on CNN THIS MORNING, the results are in for some key primary races in Arizona. Plus, the latest on the killing a Hamas leader in Iran. How renewed concerns the violence could escalate into regional war.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:36:21]
 
DEAN:  We continue to follow breaking news out of the Middle East this morning. The top Hamas political chief Ismail Haniyeh assassinated overnight in Iran. That strike reportedly involving an airborne-guided projectile that killed him where he was staying in Tehran. Iran is blaming Israel for that strike. So far, Israel has remained quiet. We just learned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will hold a security assessment in Tel Aviv later today. 
 
And, of course, we're going to continue to follow this story throughout the morning. We will bring you any new developments as we get them.
 
Turning now to politics. Kari Lake clinching the Arizona Republican Senate nomination. The controversial conservative firebrand beating out Pinal County Sheriff Mark Lamb and neuroscientist Elizabeth Reye in last night's primary election. She's going to take on Democratic Congressman Ruben Gallego this fall. It's a key race that could decide the balance of power in the Senate.
 
In her speech last night, Lake gave a special thanks to former President Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARI LAKE, (R) ARIZONA SENATE CANDIDATE:  I think we all share one common hero, and I think I'm safe to say that we think of our favorite president, Donald J. Trump, as a hero, right? This is not a battle between Democrats and Republicans. This is a battle between good and evil. This is a battle between the people who want to destroy this country and the people who want to save America.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEAN:  Lake and Gallego are competing to replace Independent Sen. Kyrsten Sinema who is retiring.
 
And joining us now, Axios political reporter Stef Kight, and Punchbowl News congressional reporter, Max Cohen. Good morning to both of you.
 
STEF KIGHT, POLITICS REPORTER, AXIOS:  Good morning.
 
DEAN:  So let's start in Arizona first. Stef, this is a race that a lot of people have had an eye on for a long time. It was will Sinema run, won't she run? Now we know she's not. And so you really have this classic matchup of a Democrat and a Republican. You know it's Kari Lake and Ruben Gallego. 
 
Help us understand the dynamics of this race.
 
KIGHT:  One thing that's really interesting about this race is the fact that both Kari Lake and Ruben Gallego are both accusing each other of being on the extremes of their party. And we've actually seen both of them try to moderate on a few issues. 
 
We've seen Kari Lake, for example, on the issue of abortion. She has tried to kind of step away from her harder stance that she had in the past. She has said that she's opposed to a national abortion ban, for example, and was in favor of a more moderate Arizona law after an initial old law came into play earlier this year. And the same thing for Ruben Gallego, especially on the border issue
 
 -- another issue that's very important in Arizona as a border state. We've seen him as well try to say that he is for stronger border security, trying to step away from maybe past comments where he has been more lenient on border policy.
 
And so it's been something that's been fascinating to watch and, of course, they're both pointing fingers. It will be interesting to see whether, especially, Kari Lake has a real shot at winning at this point. It seems like Gallego still tends to be doing better in the polls. There's not a lot of faith in Kari Lake's campaign when you talk to Senate Republican leadership. They see other states that's more likely for pickup seats for Republicans than Arizona.
 
DEAN:  Yeah. 
 
And Max, Republicans certainly hoping to pick up the seats and flip the Senate this go-round. 
 
But Arizona specifically has got itself back in the spotlight because with Biden running it looked like it was probably out of reach for Democrats. Now, Democrats -- of course, the Harris campaign hoping that her being at the top of the ticket opens that back up. 
 
So you have this Senate race. You have, kind of, the dynamics at play at the top of the ticket. Where do you think it goes from here? How real do you think that possibility is for Democrats?
 <br>[05:40:00]
 
MAX COHEN, CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER, PUNCHBOWL NEWS:  I think the enthusiasm you saw last night at that Georgia rally for Kamala Harris is incredible in terms of Democratic enthusiasm. Where we were just a couple of weeks ago when Democrats had to hold their breath every time President Joe Biden stepped before a camera. Now it's exciting to turn out to these rallies.
 
And I think that extends, as you mentioned, to the Sun Belt. Just a couple of weeks ago we were talking about OK, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin as those kind of Rust Belt blue wall.
 
DEAN:  And as the only way for Democrats to win.
 
COHEN:  Exactly, and now with the map perhaps expanded. Because where is Harris doing better in polls? It seems she's doing better with young voters and voters of color. That is more of a Georgia-Arizona situation than perhaps the Rust Belt states. So this could expand the Senate map as well for Democrats.
 
And someone who is excited about that is Ruben Gallego, who endorsed Kamala Harris very quickly after she announced her bid a couple of weeks ago.
 
DEAN:  Yeah.
 
And I want to talk a little bit about immigration. We're seeing new ads from both of the campaigns. Let's play both of those and then, Stef, we can talk about it a little more. Hang on one second.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS CAMPAIGN AD:  As a prosecutor, she put murderers and abusers behind bars. As California's attorney general, she went after the big banks and won $20 billion for homeowners. And as vice president, she took on the big drug companies to cap the cost of insulin for seniors. Because Kamala Harris has always known who she represents.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  This campaign is about who we fight for.
 
TRUMP CAMPAIGN AD:  Joe Biden made Kamala Harris border czar to fix immigration. First, she ignored it.
 
LESTER HOLT, NBC ANCHOR, "NIGHTLY NEWS WITH LESTER HOLT":  Do you have any plans to visit the border?
 
HARRIS:  At some point.
 
TRUMP CAMPAIGN AD:  Then she just lied.
 
HARRIS:  The border is secure.
 
TRUMP CAMPAIGN AD:  Kamala Harris failed, weak, dangerously liberal.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEAN:  And so what's clearly emerging is Republicans want to hold her and only her accountable for every issue at the border. She was in charge of economic development for some of the countries in South and Central America, trying to promote business there so people -- there wouldn't be as many people at the border. 
 
And Democrats, also in this -- in another ad, going on the offense on immigration.
 
How do you see this playing out?
 
KIGHT:  I mean, look, there's no question that immigration has become a top issue for voters this election cycle, and we see that repeatedly in the polls. And, of course, this Republicans' favorite issue and it has been going back to 2015 when Donald Trump made his campaign focused around building the wall. 
 
Some of the language has changed but they still see the border and the record numbers of illegal border crossings we've seen in recent years as a key issue and something that a lot of Americans, including those nowhere close to the southern border, really care about. 
 
And, of course, we've seen Republicans immediately go after Kamala Harris for her role in dealing with the border. And back in 2021, Biden did give her an important portfolio -- an important part of the border issue to handle, focusing on Central America nations where, at the time, most of the migration was coming from. That was during the migrant child crisis early in the administration. It was definitely an important role for her, but it was not to address all of the complicated border nuances and domestic policy as well.
 
But we do see Republicans trying to take the role that she did have and kind of give her responsibility for all that has happened at the border. 
 
And there is -- this is going to be an issue for Kamala Harris no matter what because she's part of the Biden administration and she is going to have to make clear whether she supports the actions that President Biden has taken on the border or whether she's going to take a different direction. And I do think we're going to have to -- we're going to see her make that very clear and we're starting to see that in some of these early ads.
 
DEAN:  Max, do you think that the Harris campaign can effectively fight that Republican messaging?
 
COHEN:  It's going to be a tough fight. I mean, as Stef mentioned, what a lot of people in politics observe is that immigration -- if you talk to voters and say what is your top issue and they say immigration, they're more likely to be a Republican. So she's fighting an uphill battle here.
 
But what we see in that ad that you played is her attempting to go on offense to say look at this great bipartisan border deal that -- remember, Sen. James Lankford, a conservative Oklahoma Republican, negotiated. 
 
DEAN:  Very conservative, yes. 
 
COHEN:  Yeah, and that deal -- they can point fingers and say accurately that former President Donald Trump told his allies in Congress I don't want this before the election. I don't want Democrats to get a win at the expense of my message on the border, which is that it's a mess. So if they tried to fix it on the Hill, that would hurt him. And I think that is a legitimate point. 
 
The question is, in the eyes of voters -- and voters who might not be following politics as close as we are in D.C. -- do they understand the nuances --
 
DEAN:  Right.
 
COHEN:  -- of these D.C. debates? That's what the Harris campaign is going to have to get into their minds and convince them. 
 
DEAN:  It's easier if you don't have to explain a lot of steps.
 
All right, Stef and Max. Thank you so much for being here.
 
Up next, heightened fears of a full-scale war after a top Hamas political leader is assassinated in Iran. Plus, gymnastics gold for the U.S. women's team. The Bleacher Report is straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:49:15] (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE:  I've seen reports and all I can tell you right now is I think nothing takes away from the importance of, as I said a moment ago, getting to the ceasefire, which is manifestly in the interest of the hostages and bringing them home. It's manifestly in the interest of Palestinians who are suffering terribly every single day -- children, women, men in Gaza who have been caught in this crossfire of Hamas' making. It's profoundly in the interest of trying to put things on a better path.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEAN:  That was Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Singapore just moments ago reacting to this breaking news that's coming out of Iran that the top Hamas political leader has been assassinated in Tehran. 
 <br>[05:50:03]
 
Hamas accusing Israel of targeting Ismail Haniyeh where he was staying in Tehran following his participation in Tuesday's inauguration of the new Iranian president. Hamas officials saying his death, "Will not pass in vain."
 
Israel has not offered an official response to Haniyeh's killing.
 
Now, this is the second leader of an Iran-backed militant group to be killed within hours of each other, escalating fears of a broader regional war in the Middle East. 
 
And I'm joined once more by CNN global affairs analyst Kim Dozier, and CNN chief international security correspondent Nick Paton Walsh in London.
 
Kim, let's just start with you. You hear Tony Blinken there talking about the importance of a ceasefire. The importance of moving forward. And yet, this man who was assassinated -- this political leader for Hamas was playing a role in all of that.
 
So where does it all stand now?
 
KIMBERLY DOZIER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST:  At this point, we don't know. But Ismail Haniyeh was one of the main proponents of continuing to talk with Israel through interlocuters to try to get a ceasefire. To try to get a number of Palestinian prisoners back. And he was having to argue with the military wing -- the military leaders inside Gaza toward this end. So this is a very dark day for the families of the hostages right now. 
 
As for the assassination itself, Israel seldom comments on these things. But what we are hearing from Israeli media and regional media is that this assassination was so precise there was another top Hamas official staying in the same lodging on a different floor, but this wasn't targeted at him. It was targeted specifically at Haniyeh to take him out. 
 
DEAN:  It is incredible precision.
 
And Nick, I want to ask you, in terms of the broader implications here there is deep concern that this could become all-out war in that region -- something that the U.S. has certainly been trying to avoid.
 
What do you see happening? We are kind of just sitting right there on the edge this morning.
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, certainly. I mean, hearing Sec. Blinken's comments there talking about a ceasefire so far from people's minds now, frankly, given the lead Hamas negotiator killed, it seems, by Israel. 
 
You have to wonder about U.S. traction in the region full stop. Did they have any foreknowledge of this? Perhaps, maybe -- we simply don't know. Did Israel go ahead and kill a leading Hamas negotiator in negotiations the U.S. has invested months and huge amounts of capital? Did they simply kill someone without tell the U.S. first? 
 
Huge questions for the U.S. to answer -- and I think questions potentially over their relationship with Israel after the less-than- positive Netanyahu visit to Washington in the last week or so.
 
So that's a key question we need to hear an answer from the Biden administration. The next question is how does Iran respond -- essentially, saying their supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei, a guest in their house, had been killed, and vowing harsh punishment against Israel.
 
But its options are limited. He's 85. He's just seen a more moderate president sworn in than he perhaps would have liked after years of unrest internally. He's seen potentially a drone strike against Israel in April intercepted by Israel and its allies. And may be reluctant to play the one card they have -- their proxy, Hezbollah, in Lebanon to the north of Israel unless utterly vital.
 
So, many questions here and I think a lot of them will be answered when we started hearing the details of exactly how this killing occurred -- Jessica.
 
DEAN:  Yeah.
 
All right, Nick Paton Walsh and Kim Dozier. Our thanks to both of you.
 
Taking a look now at sports. Gymnast Simone Biles making history, leading Team USA to gold in the team event, while Olympic triathletes hit the water after safety concerns.
 
Amanda Davies joining us now with more from Paris. And, Amanda, we are looking at the paper -- "Golden Girls!" here -- the American gymnasts. And people are just waking up having stayed up late to watch Simone Biles and company. What a show.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN INTERNATIONAL SPORTS ANCHOR:  Yeah, it was absolutely incredible, and they are rightly emblazoning the front and back pages of the newspapers this morning. But if people are just waking up having stayed up late to watch that, the early news here from Paris I've got to bring you, the triathlons are underway on day five after the men's event was postponed because of the poor water quality in the river and concerns about athletes' safety swimming in the polluted water.
 
Fans were lining the streets from 3:00 a.m. to get the best spot of the superstars on the bike and running legs, and it was worth it for the French supporters.
 
Another home gold in the women's race thanks to Cassandre Beaugrand grabbing her moment in style. 
 
Speaking of which -- yes, a stunning night at the gymnastics. Let's turn to the "Golden Girls," as Simone Biles has dubbed the team. Not only Biles, of course, but Sunisa Lee, Jordan Chiles, Jade Carey, and Hezly Rivera, channeling a bit of Taylor Swift on what they dubbed their 'Redemption Tour' to claim an emphatic gold in the team competition and lay those ghosts from Tokyo three years ago to rest.
 <br>[05:55:10]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIMONE BILES, WON 5TH CAREER OLYMPIC GOLD MEDAL:  At the beginning of the day, I started off with therapy this morning, so that was super exciting. And then I told her I was feeling calm and ready, and that's kind of exactly what happened. But after I finished vault, I was relieved. I was like, whoo because at least no flashbacks of anything. But I did feel a lot of relief and as soon as I landed vault, I was like oh, yeah, I am definitely -- we're going to do this. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVIES:  That's a real insight into Simone Biles changing the game, talking about therapy on the morning of such a big occasion. But with two GOATs in Serena Williams and Michael Phelps watching on, Biles helped the team. She claimed her fifth Olympic gold and eighth medal overall, securing her place as the greatest U.S. gymnast of all time.
 
And if that got you inspired by the idea of competing at an Olympics but perhaps gymnastics isn't your thing -- well, the U.S. women's Rugby Sevens head coach Emilie Bydwell has issued a shoutout to give rugby a try. She led the team to a first-ever Rugby Seven medal in spectacular fashion. The rugby version of a buzzer beater giving the USA the bronze medal finish over Australia, with Coach Bydwell saying you could start playing rugby tomorrow and still be in with a chance of playing at the next Olympics in L.A. in 2028.
 
And Jessica, there's been a huge boost. Michele Kang, who has really set out to develop women's sports -- she has pledged $4 million investments to USA Rugby over the next four years in that buildup to 2028.
 
DEAN:  Amazing.
 
All right, Amanda. Thanks so much. 
 
And there is major breaking news out of the Middle East. The political chief of Hamas assassinated in Iran. We are live throughout the region with the latest details and analysis for you. 
 
Plus, the Harris and Trump campaigns releasing dueling new attack ads.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[06:00:00]