Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Israel-Hamas War; Kenya's Plan to Send Large Police Force to Haiti on Hold; Trump Faces Monday Deadline for Bond in Civil Fraud Case; Appeals Court Hears Arguments on Texas Immigration Law; Medical Staff Tried to Access Catherine's Records; Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza Still Surrounded by IDF. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired March 21, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): As we are preparing to enter Rafah, and this will take a little time, we are continuing to operate with full force. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's very important for us to show solidarity and support with Israel right now in their time of great struggle. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's a lousy credit risk. He's proven that over many decades now. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Donald has always been desperate for cash. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's a lot of room on the Dodgers bandwagon and I can't imagine, you know, the Dodger hats that are walking around all of Japan now. It's an exciting time, not only for Los Angeles, Major League Baseball, but all over the world. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and the United States. I'm Bianca Nobilo. Max is out on assignment today. 
 
It's 8 a.m. here in London and 10 a.m. in Cairo, where U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has arrived for more talks to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of Israeli hostages held in the enclave.
 
Blinken will be meeting with Egypt's president and foreign minister and other representatives from the region today. On Wednesday, he met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and underscored the need to urgently address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Blinken also said negotiators are getting closer to reaching a ceasefire and hostage agreement, but stressed it's up to Hamas to accept the deal. This comes as Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says a ground operation in the southern city of Rafah would proceed, quote, to complete the victory over Hamas. And an evacuation plan for civilians in the city would be approved soon. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): I want you to know that I have already approved the IDF's operational plan. And soon we will also approve the plan to evacuate the civilian population from the battle zones. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Benjamin Netanyahu addressed Senate Republicans at a policy lunch Wednesday and criticized the recent speech by Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, who called for elections in Israel to form a new government. Meantime, House Speaker Mike Johnson says he may invite the Israeli prime minister to address Congress.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA) U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER: I had a lengthy conversation with him this morning. We didn't talk about those logistics, but it's one of the things that we have in mind, and we may try to arrange for that. I think it's very important for us to show solidarity and support with Israel right now in their time of great struggle, and we certainly stand for that position, and we'll try to advance that in every way that we can.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: At least three people were killed and one person seriously injured after an Israeli drone strike in the occupied West Bank city of Jenin. The Palestine Red Crescent Society says those killed were militants with the armed wing of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad organization, and the Israel Defense Forces confirmed it hit, quote, terrorist operatives in the vehicle. CNN obviously can't independently verify these claims.
 
Now to the ongoing tragedy in Haiti, whose neighbor, the Dominican Republic, said on Wednesday it has helped nearly 300 people escape the violence. The evacuees include personnel from the EU, the United Nations, financial institutions, and the Canadian and Cuban embassies. 
 
The U.S. State Department says it started moving American citizens on chartered helicopters from Port-au-Prince to Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic, and flights organized by Florida's governor, Ron DeSantis, are bringing people from Haiti to Orlando, Florida. About 360 Floridians are still in Haiti, according to state officials. 
 
Meantime, a deal signed weeks ago to reestablish order in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince has stalled. It would have involved the deployment of a large Kenyan police force. Details now from CNN's Larry Madowo in Nairobi. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Kenyan President William Ruto marching ahead with a plan to send 1,000 police officers to Haiti despite strong opposition to the deployment at home. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
Elite units of the Kenyan police are expected to lead the U.N.-backed multinational force to crush Haiti's gangs and restore order once a viable government is in place.
 
Opposition lawmakers like Edwin Sifuna tried to block it. 
 
EDWIN SIFUNA, NAIROBI SENATOR: Our police officers are going to harm's way in Haiti. This is not a situation that our regular police officers are used to. They have never encountered something like that. Their training does not extend to, you know, operations in fields of war. 
 
MADOWO (voice-over): Kenyan police have been involved in peacekeeping missions for the past 35 years, including in Cambodia, the former Yugoslavia, Kosovo, Croatia, East Timor and Sierra Leone. Kenya currently has police serving in Somalia, South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo according to a parliamentary report. 
 
CHARLES OWINO, FORMER KENYA POLICE SPOKESMAN: In all those missions, Kenya has not lost a single police officer on any combat.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): They're ready for Haiti, this senior policeman believes. 
 
OWINO: Kenya has well-trained paramilitary officers from the General Service Unit. They have well-trained officers from Administration Police Special Operations Group.
 
These are officers who have both local and international training. Some of the best institutions in Israel, in the U.S. 
 
MADOWO (voice-over): Haiti would be the most challenging deployment yet for Kenyan police with criminal gangs and militias controlling the capital Port-au-Prince and holding the nation hostage. 
 
WILLIAM RUTO, KENYAN PRESIDENT: It is a historic duty because peace in Haiti is good for peace in the world as a whole.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): President Ruto should push for a well-armed military contingent to take over, says this security analyst. 
 
FRANCIS MAINA, SECURITY ANALYST: Our police officers cannot and can never be able to contain the threat of the criminality in Haiti. You need to send thousands of military personnel to calm and disarm.
 
MADOWO (voice-over): The Kenyan parliament approved the planned police deployment to Haiti after an acrimonious debate in November. 
 
SARAH KORERE PAULATA, RULING PARTY MP: When Haiti is not safe, we are not safe. OPIYO WANDAYI, OPPOSITION MP: You cannot use our policewomen and men
 
 as guinea pigs at the altar of rent-seeking.
 
MADOWO: Civil society and opposition groups here in Kenya maintain that President Ruto's plan to send 1,000 police officers to Haiti remains illegal and unconstitutional, even after his government signed a reciprocal arrangement with the former prime minister of Haiti. 
 
MADOWO (voice-over): The unelected Ariel Henry witnessed the signing of the legal requirement in Nairobi, but he never made it back to Haiti and resigned a few days later. 
 
SIFUNA: That agreement does not hold any water because you signed an agreement with an entity that does not have the mandate to call itself a government. Some of us think that it is because of the monetary incentive. 
 
MADOWO: So you think President Ruto is doing this for the money? 
 
SIFUNA: Absolutely. 
 
MADOWO (voice-over): Kenya says the police are in the pre-deployment phase as it awaits a new Haitian administration.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MADOWO (on camera): The document that was signed between Kenya and Haiti has never been made public. And legal experts tell CNN that they doubt it will stand up to scrutiny if it is contested in court. And at least one opposition lawmaker who has gone to court once and won has told us, if President Ruto goes ahead with this plan once there's a new government in Haiti, he will go back to court and try and challenge that plan to send police officers to Haiti because they believe the president doesn't have that authority to do so, even though, as we've covered, Kenyan police have been in conflict for 35 years.
 
The other issue here is there's a feeling that the Kenyan police will just not be a good match for the terrain in Haiti. They don't know the area. They don't speak the language.
 
Haitian, Creole, and French are not widely spoken here in Kenya. And so that's one aspect. And also they've not been able to stamp out low- level crime, banditry, other terrorist incidences here within Kenya. So why would they be going halfway across the world to Haiti to try and bring order and deal with gangs that they just don't have the facilities to handle when they can't deal with much smaller issues here -- Bianca. 
 
NOBILO: Larry Madowo for us in Nairobi. Thank you. 
 
The deadline is fast approaching for Donald Trump to secure a half- billion-dollar bond to appeal his civil fraud case in New York. He has until Monday to pay, or he could potentially see his properties seized. This, sources say, is creating panic for the former president. CNN's Brian Todd has the details now from Washington. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: They're trying to take us out. 
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The former president's campaign is making a new appeal for donations. In an online posting, he tells supporters New York's Democratic Attorney General, Letitia James, wants to, quote, seize my properties in New York, and saying, quote, keep your filthy hands off of Trump Tower.
 
Donald Trump owes about half-a-billion dollars for a judgment against him in a civil fraud case brought by James. He's got until next Monday to either pay the judgment or secure a bond for that amount while he appeals the fraud case. And James recently told ABC News.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
LETITIA JAMES, NEW YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL: If he does not have funds to pay off the judgment, then we will seek, you know, judgment enforcement mechanisms in court. And we will ask the judge to seize his assets.
 
TODD (voice-over): CNN's Kaitlan Collins, citing multiple sources familiar with Trump's thinking, reports the former president is in panic mode as that Monday deadline approaches, and that he's privately lashed out at Letitia James. A Trump campaign spokesman issued a statement saying those were, quote, baseless innuendos and pure BS. Still, Trump's lawyers say he's approached 30 bonding companies to post that half-a-billion dollar bond. None of them have agreed to do it. 
 
WILLIAM COHAN, FORMER WALL STREET MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS BANKER: He's a lousy credit risk. He's proven that over many decades now.
 
He's proven that he doesn't pay off creditors. He's proven that he doesn't pay off contractors. He's proven that he doesn't pay off subcontractors. He's proven that he doesn't pay his own lawyers. 
 
Kaitlan Collins reports Trump's team has sought out wealthy supporters for money and has weighed which of his assets could be sold fast enough to meet that deadline, but that he's also increasingly concerned about the optics of that Monday deadline and the perceptions of him facing a financial crisis. 
 
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON, AUTHOR, "THE MAKING OF DONALD TRUMP": Donald has always been desperate for cash because he's not a wealth builder. He is a wealth extractor. 
 
TODD (voice-over): There's speculation that instead of securing a bond, Trump could hurriedly sell one or more of his famous properties to cover the judgment, properties like his building at 40 Wall Street or the one on New York's Avenue of the Americas or the Doral Golf Resort in Florida or even Mar-a-Lago. 
 
SHAN WU, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: That's hard to sell real estate very quickly unless you're doing a fire sale on the assets which you wouldn't want to be doing.
 
TODD (voice-over): Some analysts see another option as Trump's best route. 
 
COHAN: He's going to probably have to file for personal bankruptcy because that's the only way that I can see that he can sort of stay this judgment, buy himself more time. 
 
TODD: But one person familiar with Trump's negotiations tells CNN that he has privately expressed opposition to any scenario where he would file for bankruptcy and that for now it remains among his least likely courses of action.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: U.S. President Joe Biden is making an ambitious pledge of more than $8 billion for the production of semiconductor chips, one of the largest federal investments in the industry. He made the announcement Wednesday in Arizona, one of four states where the grant would help build and modernize factories for the tech company Intel.
 
It's also a key battleground state where the president is hoping to drum up support for his re-election bid. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I promise to be the president of all Americans, whether you voted for me or didn't vote for me. Today's investment helps all Americans in red states and blue states, all across America, urban, rural, suburban and tribal communities.
 
We're not leaving anyone behind. If we invented in America, it should be made in America. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: The Biden team says the money would be dispersed in phases, potentially starting later on this year. But the new projects would take years to become operational. And there are environmental concerns about whether Arizona can support further chip manufacturing. 
 
A federal appeals court will now decide whether to allow Texas to temporarily enforce its controversial immigration law after hearing oral arguments in the case.
 
The law, which is raising fears of racial profiling, is now on hold. But judges have signaled that they could allow parts of the law to take effect. CNN's Ed Lavandera has more now from El Paso, Texas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): On El Paso's downtown streets, newly arrived migrants blend in, police on patrol. The future of the controversial Texas immigration law looms over these daily street scenes. Some residents, like Elizabeth Ponce Deleon, shrug off the concern about being asked to prove she's a U.S. citizen.
 
ELIZABETH PONCE DELEON, EL PASO RESIDENT: If they stop me, if they ask me where you are from, I don't care, it doesn't bother me because I know I am legal and I am not doing anything wrong.
 
DIEGO CARLOS, EL PASO RESIDENT: I am just on edge more.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): 28-year-old El Paso resident Diego Carlos fears the new law will mean he and his family will be open to constant questions and harassment. 
 
CARLOS: I am like, all the time, I am like looking over my shoulder. But the DPS officers, those are the ones like you know, my hair stands up on the back of my neck whenever I see those black and white trucks.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): The fate of the Texas immigration law known as Senate Bill 4 or SB 4 is being hashed out in federal court. During oral arguments in the Fifth Circuit Court of appeals, Texas officials argued the law should go into effect while the legal challenge plays out in federal court.
 
AARON NIELSON, SOLICITOR GENERAL, TEXAS: Texas has decided that we are at the epicenter of this crisis, we are on the frontline and we are going to do something about it.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): This law would give local law enforcement officers the ability to arrest migrants suspected of entering Texas illegally and allows state judges to deport migrants to Mexico. 
 <br>[04:15:02]
 
But one of the judges voiced confusion over how the law would work, confusion partially echoed by the attorney representing Texas.
 
PRISCILLA RICHMAN, CIRCUIT JUDGE, TEXAS: I was just trying to envision how this law plays out. A couple other things, just because I am not sure I understand the law totally. So what if someone enters in, let's say, from Mexico into Arizona and lives there for five years, then moves to Texas. Are they covered?
 
NIELSON: I don't know the answer
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): That confusion and skepticism is a common theme expressed by law enforcement agencies across the state. The Laredo police chief says his officers will not focus on arresting undocumented migrants.
 
CHIEF MIGUEL RODRIGUEZ JR., LAREDO, TEXAS POLICE: He can be just by seeing somebody and thinking -- the officer thinking that he's not from here and then asking for documents, it doesn't work that.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): The sheriff in San Antonio says he would require deputies to file a report explaining the circumstances of an undocumented migrants' arrest.
 
SHERIFF JAVIER SALAZAR, BEXAR COUNTY, TEXAS: We don't want a deputy that thinks that they have authorities that actually don't exist, crossing the line over into racial profiling and getting themselves and the agency in a whole lot of trouble for, again, a misdemeanor.
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over): In El Paso, sheriff's officials say they don't have the manpower and don't want their deputies thrust into a fight between Texas Republican leaders and the Biden Administration.
 
COMMANDER RYAN URRUTIA, EL PASO COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE: This issue could quickly exhaust those resources for our community and cause extended response times, absences in patrol areas.
 
LAVANDERA: In the court hearing today, some of the judges expressed some openness to perhaps allowing parts of the Texas immigration law to go into effect, but we don't know for sure right now. So now we wait to figure out exactly what the federal appellate court is going to do and whether or not it will allow the Texas immigration law to go into effect. 
 
Ed Lavandera, CNN, El Paso, Texas. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: For decades, fertility rates have been steadily falling worldwide, and a new study finds that trend will continue well into the future. The fertility rate is the average number of children born to a woman in her lifetime. In 1950, that number was nearly five. By 2021, it was cut in half, and by next century, researchers believe that rate will drop to 1.59 children per woman.
 
The reasons for that, better contraception, better education, and improved employment opportunities for women. Countries need a rate of 2.1 children per woman to maintain population levels. Analysts say declining birth rates will bring serious economic, societal, and geopolitical consequences.
 
The U.K. watchdog for data protection is looking into a report claiming hospital staff attempted to access medical records for the Princess of Wales. Our royal correspondent and my co-anchor Max Foster has more details, including the consequences if that report does turn out to be true. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR AND ROYAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Another day, another Princess headline.
 
This one alleging medical staff tried to illegally access her records while she was there to undergo surgery at this private London clinic. The country's data watchdog now says it's assessing a breach of confidentiality, reported in the" Daily Mirror." The British tabloid reported that at least one hospital staffer allegedly tried to illegally access Kate's private medical records while she spent 13 nights at the London clinic hospital in January after planned abdominal surgery.
 
The "Mirror" says the hospital informed the palace and launched a probe into the allegations, and in a statement to CNN, the U.K.'s information commissioner's office said, we can confirm that we've received a breach report and are assessing the information provided. 
 
On Wednesday, the U.K.'s health minister, Maria Caulfield, warned that hospital staff could face prosecution. 
 
MARIA CAULFIELD, BRITISH MINISTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND WOMEN'S HEALTH STRATEGY: You're only allowed to access the patient notes you're caring for with their permission, and there's really strict rules.
 
The information commissioner would take enforcement action against trusts or primary care practices, but also as individual practitioners, your regulatory body. So for me, it would be the NMC would take action as well. So it's pretty severe.
 
FOSTER (voice-over): It's another blow for the princess, and the palace has been protecting her privacy fiercely during her recovery. They've released minimal information, which has sparked wild speculation about her true condition and whereabouts. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Wherever she is, I hope she's fine and well. I think that there are a lot more pressing things that people should be putting their attention towards. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's shocking, and I think they should leave her alone and the royal family alone. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): On Tuesday, another U.K. newspaper, "The Sun," published a video taken by a member of the public showing a smiling Kate walking from a farm shop alongside her husband, Prince William.
 
Kensington Palace has referred all questions over the hospital breach to the London Clinic. 
 
In a statement, the CEO of the hospital, Al Russell, said: In the case of any breach, all appropriate investigatory, regulatory and disciplinary steps will be taken. There's no place at our hospital for those who intentionally breach the trust of any of our patients or colleagues. 
 
Max Foster, CNN London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Still to come, smoke billows over Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza, where the Israeli military claims it's battling Hamas terrorists. We'll hear what people stuck inside the facility are saying. 
 
Plus, inflation is near 70 percent, the currency worthless. How Turkey is dealing with a devastating economic crisis. 
 
And later on, lost in translation. The Los Angeles Dodgers fire the interpreter for superstar Shohei Ohtani after the first game of the season. We'll tell you why. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: The Israeli military is still surrounding the Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza. It claims to have killed more terrorists around the facility and detained a senior Hamas operative allegedly involved in the kidnap and murder of three boys 10 years ago. 
 
CNN's Nanda Bashir has more on the hospital raid and how Gaza residents are coping and a warning to you that some of the video you are about to see is disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): I only left to find flour, to find food, this woman screams. Where are they? Her husband, children and other relatives are nowhere to be found. Their home destroyed in an Israeli airstrike while she was gone. Moments later, her nephew is pulled from the rubble. But he is barely clinging on to life.
 
In central Gaza, as bombs continue to rain down, so do these foreboding leaflets. A warning from the Israeli military for civilians to flee southwards, directed at those living in the El Rimal neighborhood and the thousands currently sheltering in the nearby Al- Shifa hospital complex. 
 
This was the scene at the beleaguered medical complex on Monday. The alarming sound of artillery fire echoing through the early hours of the morning.
 
Nobody has been able to reach those individuals, injured or killed at Al-Shifa, this, eyewitness says, filming discreetly. 
 
Some 3,000 people are believed to have been sheltering in and around the hospital when the raid began, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry. Israeli military vehicles, seen here in video filmed by a doctor in the hospital, have surrounded the complex for days. On Tuesday, one civilian trapped inside sent CNN this audio recording.
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
The hospital is still under bombardment. There has been heavy shelling and live fire, Lamya says. One man was just looking out of the window on the second floor when he was hit by a sniper and killed. 
 
The Israeli military says it is conducting what it has described as a precise military operation targeting senior Hamas militants operating within the hospital complex. Israeli military spokesman Daniel Hagari, who is the head of the IDF, accused Hamas on Monday of using the hospital as a command center.
 
It is the very same claim made by the IDF ahead of its raid on Al- Shifa back in November. On Monday, the IDF released this video showing a safe full of cash, an envelope with Hamas and Islamic Jihad insignia and a series of weapons, presented as evidence to justify its raid on the hospital. But much like the IDF raid in November, little other evidence was
 
 provided to prove the presence of a Hamas command center at the Al- Shifa hospital.
 
Hamas's military wing, meanwhile, has acknowledged that its fighters have been engaged in fierce clashes with Israeli troops in the area surrounding the hospital, adding that Gaza's civil police chief, Fayek Al-Mabhouh, who led the coordination of food and aid deliveries to the strip, was killed during the raid. 
 
In a statement, the IDF said Wednesday that approximately 90, quote, terrorists were killed, including Al-Mabhouh. The IDF also maintained that no harm had been inflicted on civilians or medical staff in the hospital. 
 
But testimonies from Palestinians inside Al-Shifa tell a very different story. 
 
We were informed by the Israelis that anyone moving within the hospital or around the hospital complex would be targeted by snipers, this medical student says. We can't leave the building to treat those injured outside. Some families attempted to leave, but they were targeted and killed.
 
Those who have been able to leave central Gaza are now forced to make the uncertain journey south. With no guarantee of protection or survival. 
 
Stripped to their underwear and barefoot, these young boys say they are thankful just to have escaped with their lives. Recounting their harrowing experience, they say they were met with Israeli tanks and forced into an open square where they were interrogated and ordered to undress. Other men around them, they say, were killed. 
 
Many evacuees have been badly wounded. Limp, bloodied bodies are carried by cart. But there is little care available in the south anymore. And there is no telling whether these men, like so many others, will survive. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BASHIR (on camera): And of course, Bianca, while we continue to see civilians across the Gaza Strip facing the very real threat of this ongoing military operation, of the ongoing airstrikes that we see across the Strip, they are also facing a desperate humanitarian situation, which is only growing more dire. With each passing day, of course, there's warnings of famine looming large.
 
A U.N.-backed report earlier in the week suggesting that an outright famine could be declared in the coming weeks, if not days. We know, of course, that in northern Gaza, more than 70 percent of the population there are now said to be facing catastrophic levels of hunger. And of course, we are still seeing aid agencies struggling to get enough aid into the Gaza Strip.
 
The United Nations has accused the Israeli leadership of intentionally starving the Palestinian people and of placing obstacles in the way of getting enough aid in via those land crossings into Gaza. 
 
And of course, the situation is deteriorating on the humanitarian front, but there are also warnings of a looming ground operation as well in southern Gaza. And as you saw there in that report, many civilians are still being told by the Israeli military to move southwards, to flee for their safety and protection, particularly those who had been sheltering in and around the Al-Shifa complex.
 
But as we know, the situation in the south is also very, very uncertain, very dangerous as well. We continue to see airstrikes in the south, and of course we continue to hear warnings of that ground operation. Israel's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has said that the operational aspect of that military plan has been approved.
 
But of course, there is growing pressure on Israel not to take action in the south, particularly from some of its closest allies, including the United States. 
 
NOBILO: Nada Bashir, thank you very much for your reporting. 
 
If you would like information on how to help with humanitarian relief efforts for Gaza and Israel, please do go to cnn.com/impact. There you'll find a list of vetted organizations providing assistance. 
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
Once again, that is cnn.com/impact. 
 
Still to come, a shock resignation. Ireland's Prime Minister stepped down. His reasons why, next. 
 
Plus, Ryanair's CEO is warning travelers to prepare for higher prices. How much more can you expect to pay for your summer holiday? We've got that for you, coming up.