Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden Administration Issues Warning To Israel on Gaza Aid; Harris Steps Up Efforts To Reach Black Men; Trump Talks Economy Repeats Election Lies Three Weeks Out. Polls Show Trump Gaining Support with Black and Hispanic Men; Inside Look at IDF Operation in Southern Lebanon; Woman Invents Device to Help Chemo Patients Keep Their Hair; Interview with Beyonce's Father and Breast Cancer Survivor Mathew Knowles; Visiting Africa's Largest Hub for Entrepreneurship; Behind the Scenes of South Korea's Booming TV Market. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired October 16, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Ahead on CNN Newsroom. The U.S. gives Israel an ultimatum. Help improve conditions in Gaza or risk future military aid. Time is running out for many of the children injured in the war's medical supplies and food aid dwindle, and the father of legendary singer Beyonce opens up about surviving breast cancer.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with Lynda Kinkade.
 
KINKADE: We begin with a demand and a deadline, the U.S. telling Israel help improve the humanitarian crisis in Gaza in the next 30 days, or face potential restrictions on military aid. The Biden administration says aid deliveries to Gaza have dropped more than 50 percent since May. It wants Israel to allow at least 358 trucks a day to enter the territory and implement pauses in fighting so that aid and vaccines can be delivered. 
 
Israel is weighing its retaliation against Iran, a source telling CNN that Israel has assured the U.S. that it will not strike Iranian oil or nuclear facilities, and that would only hit military targets. Those attacks would be revenge for Iran's ballistic missile attack earlier this month. 
 
The U.S. State Department is also speaking out against Israel's bombing campaign in Beirut, citing concerns over civilian casualties. A short time ago, Lebanese state media reported the first strikes in the southern suburbs of the capital since last week.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW MILLER, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON: So there are specific strikes that would be it would be appropriate for Israel to carry out. But when it comes to the scope and nature of the bombing campaign that we saw in Beirut over the past few weeks, it's something that we made clear to the Government of Israel. We had concerns with and we were opposed to the opposed to.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well more now on the U.S. demand for Israel to improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza from CNN Oren Liebermann.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Over the course of the past year, we have seen many times the US expressed its concerns about the humanitarian situation in Gaza to Israel, calling on the Israelis to do more that is let in more humanitarian aid, allow for the free movement of Palestinians from Northern Gaza to southern Gaza. Allow humanitarian zones to be true, safe areas, but we've never seen quite something like this. 
 
This is a first, and it marks a significant step in terms of the U.S. demanding that Israel do more when it comes to humanitarian aid going into Gaza. In a letter from Secretary of State Anthony Blinken and Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, the two right to senior Israeli officials that more needs to be done, that aid since the spring, has dropped by some 50 percent and that September had quote, the lowest of any month during the past year. 
 
In light of that and because of the dire humanitarian situation in Gaza, Blinken and Austin call on Israel to carry out a quote, urgent and sustained actions by your government this month to reverse this trajectory. Now the U.S. gives Israel 30 days to address the humanitarian situation in Gaza. They point out that this review is effectively necessary by U.S. law, because you have to make sure that countries that get us foreign military assistance are following us law, international humanitarian law, so that they say is the reason for this letter, but there is clear concern about the worsening humanitarian situation in Gaza, and that's the driving force here. 
 
The real question, does this lead to meaningful change when it comes to the U.S. providing military assistance to Israel over the course of the past year, the only thing we have seen consistently held was a single shipment of 2,000 pound bombs that remains held to this point. 
 
But in theory, at least that's what this warning is about, a threat that if Israel doesn't take stress steps to address the humanitarian concerns you might see that play out and affect us, military assistance to Israel. At the same time, the U.S. making it absolutely clear that it will do and provide everything it can for Israel's defensive needs. 
 
And on that note, the first parts and the first service members from an advanced U.S. anti-ballistic missile system have already arrived in Israel, the THAAD system, terminal, High Altitude Area Defense. The U.S. and the Pentagon said that would arrive in the coming days. 
 
Now, the first components of that are beginning to arrive, along with some of the advanced troops that will help set that up. It's not the full system, but that is clearly on the way. The U.S. very much concerned about first Israel's promise to respond to an Iranian ballistic missile barrage from earlier this month.
 <br>[01:05:02]
 
And second Iran's vow to retaliate to any attack, and that's what the THAAD is therefore, to make sure Israel has not only high quality defenses against Iranian attacks, but also a great quantity of defenses, because we have seen very clearly how large those Iranian barrages can be. Oren Liebermann, CNN at the Pentagon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, the hospital director in northern Gaza is imploring the international community to act before it's too late. The Kamal Adwan Hospital and the Jabalya refugee camp is running out of vital supplies amid Israel's ongoing bombardment. The director's plea comes just a day after the U.N. Human Rights Office warned that Israel is, quote, effectively sealing off northern Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. HUSSAM ABU SAFIAH, DIRECTOR, KAMAL ADWAN HOSPITAL (through translator): There are terrifying challenges facing the health care system at Kamal Adwan Hospital. There is a stark shortage of consumables, and supplies have started to run out. Moreover, milk is running out, food is running out. Everything available is depleting. As a result, we are facing a humanitarian disaster, a very frightening one.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, in Gaza, countless civilians and innocents are suffering horrific injuries from Israeli strikes. They're facing a severe lack of aid and have no safe place to turn. There's also suffering in Israel, where entire families are torn apart after the Hamas terror attacks. 
 
It's believed more than 100 hostages are still in captivity. Jomana Karadsheh examines the human cost of this conflict and a warning her report contains disturbing video.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Trapped in the nightmare that is Gaza are the innocent who did not choose this war and time is running out to save their lives. Oded Lifshitz turned 84 in Hamas captivity. The great grandfather was shot and injured on October 7 by militants who stormed his home in Kibbutz near Oz the site of one of the worst massacres of that day. He was separated from his wife of more than 60 years. 86 year old Yocheved was also abducted, thrown onto the back of a motorbike in her nightgown, before being released days later by Hamas. For more than a year, Sharone hasn't stopped fighting for the release of her father and the other hostages. 
 
SHARONE LIFSCHITZ, DAUGHTER OF HOSTAGE: We are so exhausted and so heartbroken again and again, we don't have the luxury of giving up. KARADSHEH (voice-over): Their hopes for a ceasefire deal that would secure the release of the hostages shattered over and over again by failed negotiations, and now with Israel's new war in Lebanon, the world's attention appears to be shifting. It is for all involved a race against time.
 
LIFSCHITZ: We are losing this race. Anybody who is interested in history see people that are caught in the tide of time, in political, military, fanatical regimes that are putting their own survival or their own agenda above human lives. And I feel that we now know what it feels.
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): Human lives turned into political ponds with no escape in this howl on Earth, where life has become a slow death for those who survived the devastating bombardment, an Israeli strike left 14-year-old Hamad with severe burns all over his body, and Israel's siege left doctors with very little to save lives, but not enough supplies to sterilize wounds. 
 
When we filmed with him, his rooms were infested with maggots that fell to the floor every time his dressings were changed. A week after filming, Hamad died. It was too late for him, but thousands of others in urgent need of medical evacuation could be saved, yet only a fraction of them have been allowed out by Israeli authorities in recent months. 
 
Baby Shihad (ph) can barely breathe and feed. The growing tumor is compressing his tiny heart. His mother, Tamara, struggles to hold it together as she tries to comfort her boy.
 
Today, he's going into surgery to try and save his life because he can't be evacuated, she says, I just want my son to get better. There are no specialists available in Gaza, and they don't have the medical equipment they need. The doctors say they have no choice but to operate to try and keep him alive. 
 
These are children. They're not carrying weapons. Tamara says, why can't he be evacuated? Against all odds, the four-month old made it through the surgery, but now lives on borrowed time. More than a month later, he still suffering from weight loss, diarrhea, vomiting and fever.
 <br>[01:10:02]
 
His mother is pleading the international community for treatment abroad, Palestinian and Israeli lives that could still suffering from weight loss, diarrhea, vomiting and fever. His mother is pleading the international community for treatment abroad. Palestinian and Israeli lives that could be saved with a deal, if only there were the political will. 
 
More than 100 hostages are still being held in Gaza. The Israeli military's admitted mistakenly killing three of them. It's also said it is most likely responsible for the death of at least three others. And in recent weeks, Hamas executed six hostages as Israeli forces closed in. LIFSCHITZ: These were young people that had every chance of survival and have survived almost a year. It's heartbreaking. It's a failure. We have been in the burning house since the seventh of October, and we have been screaming that the flames are rising and that they're going to consume more and more people. We have been saying that military pressure is killing the hostages.
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): Odette Lifshitz is a man who's long believed in peace that now seems like a more distant dream than ever.
 
LIFSCHITZ: My father used to drag Palestinians regularly from the border in Gaza to hospitals in Israel and the West Bank. And I think that there's a lesson in it, and the lesson is in how do we share in humanity. 
 
KARADSHEH: If your father could hear you now, what would you say to him?
 
LIFSCHITZ: Forgive us. We have tried so hard we hear your voice in our hands, and as we try what we can we try the way he tried all his life. He tried for many years to alert this disaster and it's befalling us. And here now saying, work for peace. Work for the possibility of humans in this region to live together.
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Anna Halford is the Emergency Coordinator for Doctors Without Borders. She joins us now from Deir al-Balah in central Gaza. Thanks so much for your time today. 
 
ANNA HALFORD, EMERGENCY COORDINATOR, DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS: No worries.
 
KINKADE: So the U.S. has given Israel 30 days to improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza or risk losing military aid. What's the reaction there to that ultimatum? 
 
HALFORD: From our angle, the news arrive relatively late last night, so there hasn't been a lot of time to gage any reaction so far.
 
KINKADE: We know that Israel again attacked a hospital in Gaza on Monday at Al Aqsa. This is hospital that's been attacked half a dozen times. These are places that are supposed to be afforded extra protection under international law. I understand you visited that site after the attack. What can you tell us?
 
HALFORD: Yes, MSF has staff working in Al Aqsa Hospital every day we have had now for nearly a year in one way or another. The sites where was hit was within the hospital compound in an area that is currently housing displaced people as nearly every hospital in Gaza is as nearly every area of open ground in Gaza is housing displaced people now and about 10 to 15 meters away from the outpatient waiting area, which has -- which is now expanded to cope with the number of patients that the hospital sees every day. I went there yesterday to see the team. There was a large burned area with burned debris where previously tents and shelters had been pieces of metal. The smoke was still there. And yes, people trying to work out, trying to retain their belongings from the debris, and trying to work out where they're going to be from now on.
 
KINKADE: We know that up until Monday, Israel hasn't allowed food aid trucks to enter northern Gaza. This is an area where there's about 40,000 people living there, according to the UN. Just talk to us about what sort of suppliers or the lack of supplies, rather, in Gaza in terms of food and medical supplies that you're seeing.
 
HALFORD: We and everyone are struggling to get the supplies that we need to run operations correctly. We, as MSF, have received very little of the supplies that we have available due to difficulties bringing it over the border into Gaza, due to restrictions, due to changes to what is allowed in at the last minute, and due to the difficulty with looting on the road into Gaza. 
 
Concretely, what that means is that we are always measuring what we have in terms of supply, analyzing it against how many patients that is we can cope with.
 <br>[01:15:05]
 
Analyzing whether we got second, third, fourth line alternatives to make sure that we are continuing to give adequate care for patients and not to run into difficulties. The Ministry of Health does not have sufficient supply. We do not have sufficient supply, and we are always -- we're measuring in weeks for our level of function.
 
KINKADE: And we know from the Gaza health ministry, more than 42,000 people have been killed, more than 98,000 wounded in the last year in a war that's dragged on. What's your biggest concern right now?
 
HALFORD: I don't think it's easy to pick out one thing in particular. As a health organization, our concern is the cumulative and ongoing effects of this war on a population which where the possibilities of coping with it are less and less every day in terms of the health situation of people who have been displaced multiple times, where the health system has been reduced, where we've gone from 8,000 beds pre or hospital beds to fewer than 2,000 where the population squeezed city and by so called evacuation orders, into a very, very small area where access to water has gone from a consumption of between 50 to 70 liters per person per day to between two and nine per day. 
 
There is not sufficient food for people to get all of the nutrients. There is not sufficient food for breastfeeding women to produce enough milk for their children. There are not sufficient medical supplies to cope with people's normal health burdens, let alone the massive additional burden of traumatic injury. 
 
And this just keeps going and going, and the longer it carries on, without an improvement to the supply situation, without an improvement to the political situation, the fewer and the less ability people have and the systems have to cope with it. KINKADE: Anna Halford from Doctors Without Borders, we appreciate your time and the work that you and your team are doing there in Gaza. Thanks so much. 
 
HALFORD: No problem. Thank you. 
 
KINKADE: Well, still ahead on CNN Newsroom, we're going to have the latest on the U.S. election. 20 days to go. Candidates trading jabs as they look for ways to win support in the swing states.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: With 20 days to go into Election Day in the U.S., Kamala Harris and running mate Tim Walz will campaign together in the critical swing state of Georgia for the first time on Wednesday. It's part of a wider effort to court black male voters who are so crucial to the Democratic campaign. CNN's Eva McKend has more.
 <br>[01:20:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONA: POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: And perhaps the most wide ranging conversation so far of the campaign, the Vice President addressing building wealth in black communities, answering a question on reparations, saying it was an issue that needed to be studied, and saying that she understood that there are disparities in certain communities, while pledging to be a president for all of America. She also pushed back against this sense of complacency coming from some corners. Take a listen.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: We should never sit back and say, OK, I'm not going to vote because everything hasn't been solved. I share a desire that everything should be solved, by the way. I think it is what we should all want, but that doesn't -- that shouldn't stand in the way of us also knowing we can participate in a process that's about improving things. 
 
And by voting in this election, you have two choices, or you don't vote, but you have two choices if you do, and it's two very different visions for our nation. One mind that is about taking us forward and progress and investing the American people, investing in their ambitions, dealing with their challenges. And the other, Donald Trump is about taking us backward. 
 
CHARLAMAGNE THA GOD, AMERICAN RADIO HOST: The other is about fascism. Why can't we just say it.
 
HARRIS: Yes, we can say that.
 
MCKEND: When asked if she was essentially pandering to black men by focusing specifically on their issues in a new policy platform, she said that these were part of her long standing commitments that even prior to running for vice president, these have always been policy views that she has espoused. The campaign working hard here in Michigan. She's also going to make her taste of voters this week, though, in Wisconsin and in Georgia. Eva McKend, CNN, Detroit, Michigan.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, Donald Trump is focusing some of his attention on black voters at a rally in Atlanta Tuesday the Republican nominee said, any voters of color who would vote for Kamala Harris, quote, ought to have their head examined. His comments came as early voting got underway in Georgia, with a record breaking 328,000 ballots cast on the first day. CNN's Kristen Holmes has more on Trump's campaign efforts as the race enters its final stages.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Donald Trump hoping to capitalize on voters' concerns over the economy in the final sprint to the White House.
 
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: Most beautiful word in the dictionary is tariff. 
 
HOLMES (voice-over): Sitting down with Bloomberg Editor-in-Chief, at the Chicago Economic Club, for an at times contentious interview over his economic proposals. 
 
JOHN MICKLETHWAIT, BLOOMBERG EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: The markets are looking at the fact you are making all these promises. People like the Wall Street Journal, who is hardly a communist organization.
 
TRUMP: But you don't --
 
MICKLETHWAIT: They have criticized you on this as well. You are running out enormous debt. 
 
TRUMP: What is the Wall Street Journal now, I'm meeting with them tomorrow. What is the Wall Street Journal? They've been wrong about everything. So have you.
 
HOLMES (voice-over): The former president again, refusing to commit to accepting the 2024 election result while continuing to falsely claim there was a peaceful transfer of power after his 2020 defeat.
 
TRUMP: And it was love and peace. 
 
HOLMES (voice-over): Trump also would not say whether he had spoken to Russian President Vladimir Putin since leaving office.
 
MICKLETHWAIT: Can you say yes or no whether you have talked to Vladimir Putin since you stopped being President? 
 
TRUMP: Well, I don't comment on that, but I will tell you that if I did, it's a smart thing. 
 
HOLMES (voice-over): With just three weeks to go, Trump also seeking to broaden his appeal among women voters, with polls showing a wide gender gap in his matchup against Vice President Kamala Harris.
 
TRUMP: Women love my policy, but they don't like me.
 
HOLMES (voice-over): The former president participating in a Fox News town hall with an all-female audience in battleground Georgia, before holding a rally with supporters in Atlanta as early voting begins in the Peach State.
 
TRUMP: Let's not do any more questions.
 
HOLMES (voice-over): This comes after Trump cut questions short at a town hall in Pennsylvania, instead swaying to music on stage for nearly 40 minutes. Shortly after, Kamala Harris taunting Trump, the Vice President writing quote, hope he's OK. 
 
It's just the latest in the back and forth between the two candidates as Trump faces public calls from his Democratic rival to release his medical records. After the White House released a letter summarizing Harris medical history over the weekend.
 
HARRIS: He's not being transparent. So check this out. He refuses to release his medical records. I've done it. Every other presidential camp. Every other presidential candidate in modern era has done it.
 
HOLMES (voice-over): In an overnight post on social media, Trump baselessly attacking Harris's medical history, saying the Vice President is quote dying to see his cholesterol, while claiming to have, quote, put out more medical exams than any president in history, despite not releasing basic information that presidential candidates traditionally make public. Kristen, Holmes, CNN, Atlanta, Georgia.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[01:25:00]
 
KINKADE: CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein is with us from Los Angeles. He's also the senior editor at The Atlantic. Good to have you with us.
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Good to be with you.
 
KINKADE: So record turnout in Georgia on day one of early voting. What does that tell you?
 
BROWNSTEIN: You know, it's hard to know which party benefits anymore from this in 2020. Clearly, Democrats were voting earlier than Republicans. Now it's not 100 percent clear. What it says, though, to me, above all, is that when it was a Biden-Trump race, there were concerns the turnout could be significantly lower than it was in 2020 maybe 20 million lower. 
 
But all the indications we have from the early voting is that while it's hard to kind of say which party is necessarily benefiting, there is a lot of interest, and it looks like we will have a high turnout election again, maybe not all the way to back to where we were in 2020 but substantially higher than what we have seen for most of the 21st century. 
 
KINKADE: Yes, fascinating. And of course, I want to turn to Trump's rally Monday night, which seemed to turn into an awkward dance where he swayed on stage for some 40 minutes to different songs. I just want to play some of that. 
 
I mean, it's hard to imagine this lasting 40 minutes, but during that time, multiple attendees fainted in the heat. Some people left. Others said, I hope he's OK. What did you make of that? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, look, I mean, Donald Trump's campaign has kept him since the debate, largely in front of friendly audiences and away from big set piece, kind of public appearances, right? I mean, he canceled the 60 Minutes interview, is refusing to do another debate. 
 
The first debate, I think, raised a lot of questions about kind of where he is at this point in terms of his capacity to kind of sustain an argument, or, you know, maintain a coherent train of thought today. When he was being interviewed by my old friend John Micklethwait at the Bloomberg, Bloomberg event at the Chicago Economic Council, he again made the argument about, well, I'm weaving in some sort of way that you can comprehend all of these ideas together. 
 
There is, you know, once Biden got out of the race, suddenly, Trump is the 78-year-old guy in the campaign, and concerns about his fitness for the job are real. He has dominated the last few weeks, I think, or at least had the upper hand in the last few weeks, by shifting the focus to Harris in the battleground states, with advertising portraying her as soft and crime on the border and extreme on transgender issues, but the question of whether he can get all the way to the finish line without voters focusing again on all their hesitations about him, may be the most important question in the campaign. 
 
KINKADE: Yes, exactly. We know that Trump will participate in a Fox News Town Hall, a women only event, and he does seem surprised that he's not doing better amongst women. He said, in the past, I'll be your protector. Most women, it seems want a leader, not a protector. How do you think this event will bode for him? How will it play out for him?
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, the protector language, as I wrote a whole column about it, was really -- is very, very revealing, not only in the sense that he is emphasizing security and threat as a way of trying to hold women voters, but also as a reminder that, as in many things that J.D. Vance has said, the Trump campaign is sending a message of very traditional gender roles, the idea of the man as the protector childless cat ladies, parents should get more votes if they have kids, and that appeals to a segment of female voters, but not to the largest segment. 
 
If you believe, as I do, that Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the three former blue wall states, are still the most likely places to decide the election. What Trump is really aiming at in events like this is the very large population in those states of white women without a college degree. It's pretty clear. I think the odds are pretty high that Kamala Harris
 
 is going to run even better than Biden did in 2020 among white women with a college degree after all, the right to abortion was not overturned until after the 2020 election.
 
KINKADE: And poll -- polls do show that, you know, Harris is well ahead with black and Hispanic voters, but not as well as previous Democratic nominees. She is trying to appeal to black men. What is the biggest hurdle?
 
BROWNSTEIN: Yes, the biggest hurdle is the economy. I mean, I think especially with black and Hispanic men, you know, a significant percentage of them say that they are worse off because of Biden's policies and in the kind of hydraulic fashion of politics anywhere in the world when you're dissatisfied the economic results of the party in power, you're more open to the party out of power. 
 <br>[01:30:04]
 
There's also a strain of culturally conservative men in both the black and Latino communities. And there is a portion that responds to what I just mentioned. A kind of traditional gender roles signaling the Trump, for example by having Hulk Hogan, the professional wrestler. You know, know, the idea that he's a tough guy at the -- at the convention. 
 
Harris, I think, you know, has focused a lot on trying to convince black and Latino voters that she will fight for people like them economically and she's made up some ground on that. 
 
But I don't think that in the end, would be enough for her to get her back to where she has to be because too many of those voters think they were better off under Trump for that argument alone to succeed.
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: Ron Brownstein, good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
BROWNSTEIN: Thank you for having me.
 
Still to come, CNN goes inside Lebanon with Israeli troops as they continue a military push against Hezbollah. 
 
Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Lynda Kincaid.
 
More than 1 million people in Lebanon have fled their homes and around a quarter of the population is now under Israeli evacuation orders according to the Middle East director of the U.N. Refugee Agency. 
 
Lebanese authorities report the total number of Israeli attacks on the country has now passed 10,000 including one attack Monday that destroyed an entire building serving as refuge for displaced people, killing at least 21 and injuring 8.
 
Humanitarian organizations operating in Lebanon are warning of the deteriorating conditions facing civilians.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LOTTE RUPERT, HEAD OF OPERATIONS IN LEBANON, IFRC: Since last month, since mid-September the situation in Lebanon, as you know, has worsened significantly. 
 
And we're now seeing widespread attacks as displacement and immense humanitarian needs. And with hundreds of thousands of people on the move amongst (INAUDIBLE), the need for protection, shelter, food, and medical assistance is crucial, as the Red Cross are currently facing barriers to procure or to transport humanitarian goods into the country which is leading to severe shortages. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: We're now getting an up-close look at the Israeli ground operation in southern Lebanon. 
 <br>[01:34:41]
 
KINKADE: CNN reported from Lebanon under Israeli Defense Forces escort at all times. And CNN retained editorial control over the final report and did not submit any footage to the IDF for review.
 
Our Jeremy Diamond brings us this inside look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: In the ruins of this southern Lebanese village amid flattened buildings, crumpled cars, and mounds of rubble, there are also Israeli soldiers. 
 
Two weeks into their ground operation, they now control multiple villages like this one, but for how long and how much deeper into Lebanon will they go?
 
Israeli Humvees now slice straight through the border into the rocky terrain of southern Lebanon. 
 
Nearly two weeks ago, Israeli ground troops came in here in the first major Israeli ground operation in nearly two decades. 
 
And they're now taking us into one of their positions inside Lebanon.
 
Arriving on the ground, it's immediately clear this village is now firmly in Israeli hands. supplies are being brought in. Tanks are parked in a courtyard. And troops have settled into homes where Lebanese civilians once lived.
 
So we're about two miles inside of southern Lebanon. And you can see the destruction around us that's been wrought by this ground operation, also by Israeli strikes over the course of the last year. What we're also seeing is that this is a clear Israeli position that has been established with artillery fire now firing off in the distance. And it's interesting because the Israeli military, of course, is describing all of this as limited targeted raid.
 
But we are also seeing, of course, that they have established positions inside of southern Lebanon for an offensive that they insist is not going to go much deeper. 
 
This is an established Israeli military position inside of southern Lebanon. How is this a raid?
 
COL. ROY RUSSO, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES: Well as, as you can see and as you walk by, those -- those outposts that we are right now holding are temporary. There's no outpost designed, built, and operated by the IDF. These are tactical, temporary, time-limited.
 
DIAMOND: Colonel Roy Russo, the chief of staff of the 91st Division, says his orders are to clear the area closest to the border and nothing more.
 
RUSSO: There's no objective that was designed for us to go into Beirut or Dahiya or something like that. No, we need to eliminate the threat as a tactical range that enable Hezbollah to pose a threat on the community. 
 
DIAMOND: Deeper inside this former Hezbollah stronghold, Colonel Russo and his troops show us what they say that threat looks like.
 
COL. YANIV MALKA, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES: You can see here anti-tank missiles. You can see rockets. You can see brand new AK-47.
 
DIAMOND: Multiple stashes of weapons which the Israeli military says Hezbollah planned to use in attacks on northern Israeli communities, a claim CNN cannot independently verify.
 
Israeli troops are now fighting to clear other villages like this one to remove what they say is a key part of the Hezbollah threat that has displaced some 60,000 residents of northern Israel.
 
Soldiers here say Hezbollah has shown itself to be a tough well- trained enemy, carrying out tactical ambushes that have already killed ten Israeli troops. 
 
Israel's war in Lebanon already stretches far beyond the battlefield of these border communities. More than 2,300 people have been killed in Israeli strikes across Lebanon, including several hundred women and children, according to the Lebanese health ministry. And more than 1 million people have fled their homes as Israel intensifies its attacks, ordering residents of a quarter of Lebanon's territory to evacuate.
 
And that is an enormous cost for this kind of ground operation. That kind of strikes that you guys are conducting.
 
RUSSO: Right. I think the responsibility of Hezbollah, I think if they haven't launched an attack on October 8, we wouldn't be here.
 
DIAMOND: As the cost continues to mount for Lebanon civilians, Colonel Russo says he believes the Israeli ground operation will be counted in weeks not months.
 
But as smoke rises beyond the tree line, a reminder that this war is far from over.
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN -- inside southern Lebanon with Israeli military.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: President Biden plans to convene a meeting of the so-called European Quad to discuss future support for Ukraine. The U.S. president and the leaders of France, Germany, and Britain have been scheduled to meet with President Zelenskyy last week, but it was postponed due to Hurricane Milton. 
 
We're now being told that the Quad meeting is expected to be held this week in Belgium. The four western allies are the top arms suppliers to Ukraine, delivering about $90 billion in direct military aid to Kyiv since the war began.
 
Well still to come, Matthew Knowles has done a lot of things in his life including managing the career his daughter, superstar Beyonce. What he didn't expect was the breast cancer diagnosis. Why he says early testing is so crucial. 
 
More with that interview after the break.
 <br>[01:39:45]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Women diagnosed with cancer could soon have a new tool to help them maintain a sense of normalcy while battling the disease. October is breast cancer awareness month and while some feel inspired, many people living with breast cancer feel like this month overlooks their experience with the disease.
 
CNN'S Anna Stewart spoke to an Irishwoman whose invention could help patients.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: An award-winning device could give cancer patients some feeling of normalcy while undergoing treatment. 
 
OLIVIA HUMPHREYS, WINNER, JAMES DYSON AWARD IRELAND NATIONAL PRIZE 2024: There're studies showing that, you know, some women find that losing their hair is as difficult as losing a breast, you know. It's that kind of thing. It's that extreme.
 
STEWART: An extreme that made 24-year-old Olivia Humphreys want to do more. And she's been named the James Dyson Award winner for her developments. Humphreys built a portable scalp cooling device to help prevent hair loss during chemotherapy. The idea of cold capping began in the 70s. And more than five decades later, Humphreys says she's found a way to further optimize it. 
 
While chemo treatments attack cancerous cells, they also attack healthy cells like hair follicles that can resemble the bad ones. Athena, Humphreys' prototype reduces the temperature of the scalp during chemotherapy treatments. The cold temperature restricts blood flow to the hair follicle cells, which can block the chemo from reaching that area to damage or kill the hair follicles.
 
One of the major features in her new device is the battery life. It can last for more than three hours.
 
HUMPHREYS: The device is utilizing low-cost thermoelectric components to cool water that circulates around the scalp and it's lightweight. It's portable. It means that a patient doesn't have to be plugged into when they're infusing in a hospital. It means that they can get up and go to the bathroom if they want to. And it means that they can (INAUDIBLE) commuting (ph) from the comfort of their own homes.
 
Watching her mom battle cancer inspired the idea to make this prototype and take what her mom was already using to reduce hair loss and push it even further. 
 
HUMPHREYS: So with Mom, for example, she kept about 60 percent of her hair and that meant the world to her then. It was -- you could -- you could cover it, she'd put glasses on the top of her head and you wouldn't know the difference. And that really made the difference. 
 
STEWART: Humphreys will continue to design and refine her device and hopes to bring this treatment to the market.
 
HUMPHREYS: Chemotherapy is the main goal. We've got to focus on, you know, killing the cancer cells. But you've got to focus on the person that's also living in the body.
 
STEWART: Anna Stewart, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Although breast cancer is found more common in women, it can affect men too. And this Wednesday marks the start of men's breast cancer awareness week in the U.S. 
 <br>[01:44:51]
 
KINKADE: Male breast cancer or MBC comprises just 1 percent of all breast cancer cases. It's typically older men around the age of 72. 
 
The American Cancer Society estimates that nearly 2,800 new cases of MBC will be diagnosed this year and about 530 men will die from the disease.
 
Mathew Knowles is a breast cancer survivor. He's also a music executive, author, entrepreneur, and the father of legendary singer Beyonce. He joins us now from California.
 
Welcome to the program.
 
MATHEW KNOWLES, BREAST CANCER SURVIVOR: Thank you, Lynda. Thank you for having me. 
 
KINKADE: So Mathew Knowles, you are of course, the father and former manager of superstar singer Beyonce. But most people probably wouldn't know that you battled breast cancer in 2019. 
 
Take us back to that moment. What happened? How did you know that you had cancer.
 
KNOWLES: well, great question. 
 
I had these red dots on my T-shirt one night. Didn't think anything about it until next night when I took my T-shirt off same thing. And then I asked my wife if yo9u could buy me new T-shirts. What's going on? 
 
And she said, you know, the last few days I cleaned the sheets on the bed, I noticed spots of blood.
 
Now most people don't know that in 1980 I saw mammography equipment, so I was pretty familiar with some of the signs and we had a couple of days of training for men. And so I knew immediately what that could be. 
 
KINKADE: Wow. And of course, Mr. Knowles, breast cancer in men is much rarer than it is for women. We know that for about every 100 women diagnosed with breast cancer, about one man is also diagnosed.
 
Just explain for us how much you knew about breast cancer before you were diagnosed.
 
Well again, I have been in diagnostic imaging for 20 years of my corporate life, so I -- that was the main equipment that I sold, mammography equipment. 
 
So I knew -- I knew the signs and I always talked about the importance of early detection. That's the key here, early detection. 
 
KINKADE: Absolutely. And you know, for over four decades, October has been known as Breast Cancer Awareness Month. We know much more about it now, especially when it comes to genetic factors. 
 
And you found that you had the gene mutation, which increases certain cancer risks. 
 
KNOWLES: It does and that's where we are today in medicine with also knowing the genetics that we each have. And I was what we call BRCA 2 variant that mean I have a higher risk for breast cancer, prostate cancer, melanoma and pancreatic-added cancer, in women it means ovarian cancer and breast cancer. 
 
So if you can get that information early in life, then you can make informed decisions about your health. That's why genetic testing is so important today. 
 
KINKADE: Mr. Knowles talk to us about the impact on you. You had a double mastectomy as I understand but you still need regular mammograms. Is that right?
 
KNOWLES: Yes. I take annual mammograms. I also take an MRI annually on my pancreas -- I mean, my prostate, as well as pancreatic MRIs. 
 
I want to be ahead of the curve. I want to get the information and be able to make those lifestyle changes, which I've made. 
 
You know, I exercise. I've lost almost 30 pounds. I changed my diet. All of those things but being informed, that's why it's so important to get your mammograms. 
 
So important to get genetic testing so that you have all the information.
 
KINKADE: Well, you are looking remarkably well. So it's great to hear that you have followed doctor's advice and thankfully you caught it early. But it is a good reminder for everyone, especially women over 40 to get regular checkups. 
 
Final question, Mr. Knowles, who runs the world?
 
KNOWLES: Girls.
 
KINKADE: Pleasure -- pleasure to have you on. That was the correct answer. 
 
Matthew Knowles, thank you so much for your time and all the work you're doing to raise awareness.
 
KNOWLES: Thank you.
 
KINKADE: Well, a tech startup scene in Africa (ph) is buoyant with South African cities leading the way. In today's "Africa Insider", we visit 22 On Sloane in Johannesburg, the largest hub for entrepreneurship on the continent.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ROZE PHILLIPS, FOUNDER, ABUNDANCE AT WORK: Necessity is the mother of invention. We're going to have to rely on entrepreneurs and we're going to have to rely on our startups.
 
But we can't have startups that bold (ph) for Silicon Valley. It must be something that is usable on our continent.
 <br>[01:49:52]
 
KIZITO OKECHUKWU, EXECUTIVE HEAD, 22 ON SLOANE: Ten years ago a lot of people on the continent didn't even know the concept of startups. Today, the numbers are staggering.
 
Just last year startup raised $3.2 billion. The year before, 2022, they raised $5 billion. Now as a young person, you have a great idea, there is an opportunity for you. 
 
My name is Kizito Okechukwu, the executive head at 22 On Sloane startup campus in Johannesburg, South Africa.
 
22 On Sloane is a startup campus that supports startups and SMEs with access to markets, access to capital through our partner funds. We support them with capacity building program that will help them to look at their business cases, business model, to be able to launch or scale their businesses, and to create much-needed jobs in Africa's economy.
 
We've had many wins, but also we've had many failures, right? As a startup campus, you see a lot of -- a lot of young people with ideas coming into the campus. They believe that their idea can change the world. And what we do with that is that we also need to believe that with them.
 
A lot of them don't succeed, but they learn from that. But also we've had good few successes. One of the great successes like one of the SMEs that received grant from us and now they're employing over 40 people. 
 
We've supported over a thousand entrepreneurs. And this thousand entrepreneurs have gone on to generate revenue of over 1 billion rands which is around $0 million.
 
The national development plan intends that SMEs in South Africa will contribute 80 percent to the GDP by 2030 and create 90 percent of all jobs in South Africa. So that means we have to create over 100,000 SMEs every single year for the next seven years.
 
So that is our big target now.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, whether you are eagerly awaiting the second season of "Squid Game", or you're a fan of comedies like "Love Next Door", Korean TV shows are having a moment like never before.
 
Now, CNN has been given an exclusive peek behind the scenes of the new series, "Family By Choice", just one of the many new shows winning over audiences in South Korea and beyond.
 
CNN'S Mike Valerio reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In this beautiful sun-splashed cafe outside of Seoul, the scene is set. 
 
Our CNN team granted rare exclusive access to what this production crew hopes will be South Korea's next hit show.
 
It's just a taste of the new Korean drama "Family by Choice" where childhood friends form their own chosen family and a reunion ten years later leads to romance. It could be the friendliest set I've ever seen. Director Kim Seung-Ho
 
 telling us laughter is encouraged to offset the scripted drama. And from behind the curtain, lead actor Hwang In-youp takes a quick break to talk to us. 
 
HWANG IN-YOUP, ACTOR (through translator): It's a drama about healing each other's trauma, recovering from it, and finding happiness in the end. 
 
This could be a little spoiler. But from the moment we get back together, the romantic side of the story becomes the main part as the story gets more serious.
 <br>[01:54:50]
 
VALERIO: And things are getting more serious for Korean shows worldwide. 
 
"Squid Game" Season 2 returns in December, and Netflix says Korean shows and movies are its most viewed non-English titles, ahead of Spanish and Japanese, according to Netflix data from the second half of 2023.
 
YUN KI-YUN, CEO, SLL: I never even imagined that Korean dramas, having a language barrier can be pervasive to the global market.
 
VALERIO: Yun Ki-yun is the CEO of SLL, the studio behind "Family by Choice" as well as the Korean thrillers, "Hellbound" and "All of Us Are Dead", both on Netflix. 
 
He says it's the delicate, emotional storytelling that often makes Korean shows so popular with global audiences. And adds, K-pop music led to an even bigger fascination with Korean series and movies.
 
YUN: Thanks to the Psy, BTS and Black Pink, they raised the curiosity from the K-pop fandoms.
 
VALERIO: The industry across South Korea hopes we'll see more Korean shows on more streaming platforms. Yum hopes his new series, "The Good Boy", about athletes turned police officers, will be a hit on Amazon and lead to stronger ties with the platform. 
 
"Family by Choice" is out now across South Korea and Hwang says, he's up for the challenge to make this show an international hit.
 
HWANG: It's unbelievable. And I am grateful for all the love and interest. Now I'm left with my homework or challenged to make the content more exciting and living up to expectations.
 
VALERIO: Mike Valerio, CNN, Yeoju, South Korea. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well Prague, a city as famous for its beer as for its buildings is banning some late-night bar crawls in a bid to discourage rowdy tourists. The Czech capital is the latest European hotspot to push back on
 
 crowds amid concerns about the impact of the quality of life for the locals. Over the past two decades, Prague has become a popular destination for bachelor and bachelorette parties, particularly for people from the U.K.
 
City officials say the ban only applies to group tours organized by travel agencies. And were not prevent individual groups from organizing their own bar crawl.
 
Well, thanks so much for joining us. 
 
I'm Lynda Kinkade. I'll be back with much more CNN NEWSROOM right after a very short break.
 
Stay with us.
 <br>[01:57:07]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)