Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Sources: Israel Special Forces Carried Out Raids In Lebanon; Israel Airstrikes Hit Major Intersection In Beirut; Biden Plans To Speak To Netanyahu, Says Must Avoid Wider War. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired September 30, 2024 - 10:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:25]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Welcome back to the second hour of CONNECT THE WORLD. It's 5:00 p.m. here in Tel Aviv. I'm Becky Anderson 
 
 for you.
 
Well, breaking news coming into us this hour. CNN has learned that Israeli special forces have been on the ground in Lebanon in the past few days, 
 
 carrying out small targeted raids. Those attacks sought to be in preparation for a potential Israeli ground offensive, two sources tell CNN. 
 
 Now it comes as Israel's defense minister today hinted at a ground incursion while speaking to troops near the Israel-Lebanon border.
 
Meantime, this was the scene hours before in Lebanon's capital.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: An Israeli airstrike wreaking havoc inside Beirut's city limits for the first time since October the 7th and the Israel-Hamas war began 
 
 sourcing for all these. So, Ben Wedeman was on the scene.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTENATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We're at the site of an Israeli airstrike that took place at 1:00 a.m. on Monday. This apartment on 
 
 the fifth floor was hit. According to the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, three of their members were killed in that strike, in 
 
 addition to one other person, as reported by the Ministry of Health. Now the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine is a Palestinian faction 
 
 that has a presence here in Lebanon, but has not been active for several years.
 
It's not clear if Israel is now taking the opportunity to target not just Hezbollah and others who have been firing into Israel, but all of the 
 
 factions that are opposed to Israel. Now, many of the people who left the southern suburbs moved to areas like this because they thought it might be 
 
 safer. Clearly, that's not the case.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, if Israel does send ground troops into Lebanon, it wouldn't be the first time. In 2006, Israel invaded Lebanon hoping it could suppress 
 
 attacks by Hezbollah in a way that it found impossible, using air power alone. An eerily similar situation to today. And the brutal course of a 34-
 
 day war, more than 1000 Lebanese were killed in 2006. Israel's attacks on Lebanon last Monday alone killed around half that number.
 
More than 100 Israeli soldiers were also killed in the 2006 war. Well, it ended with a mutually agreed ceasefire, Israel withdrawing from Lebanon 
 
 without achieving the goals that it had set for itself. 18 years later, Israel still determined to eliminate what it perceives as an existential 
 
 threat posed by Hezbollah at its border. It says one of the goals of this war is to allow thousands of Israelis displaced from the far north of the 
 
 country to return home.
 
At the time, back in 2006 Hezbollah did not have the resources that it has today and some say the prime minister is leading Israel into a new war in 
 
 pursuit of another unrealistic goal. Well, Ehud Olmert was Israel's prime minister at the time of the 2006 invasion and he joins us now. I do want to 
 
 spend a bit of time with you reflecting on what happened back in 2006 and the lessons learned. 
 
But Israel today has set returning the residents of the North back to their homes as a goal of this war. Do you believe that the action today, the 
 
 assassination of the Hezbollah chief and many of his commanders and the potential for a full-on war on Hezbollah using ground troops, if that is 
 
 the decision is the right move to restore security, sir?
 
EHUD OLMERT, FORMER ISRAEL PRIME MINISTER: Well, I think that the against the commandment of Hezbollah, the -- Nasrallah and the other commanders was 
 
 inevitable. They started the war on the 8th of October without any provocation. They made it clear from the outset that they have nothing 
 
 against us. They just want to help the Hamas. And they were shooting rockets, maybe sometimes 300-a day for a long time
 <br>[10:05:04]
 
And they forced out more than 80,000 of Israeli residents in the north away from their home. So, it was inevitable. We had to respond. We have to reach 
 
 out. We have to try and change the balance. But if you ask me whether this is a game changer, in the sense that it can resolve comprehensively all the 
 
 problems and create an entirely new situation in Lebanon, I don't think so.
 
I wish, by the way, perhaps against your judgment before that the outcome of this war will be similar to the one that was in 2006. We had for 17 
 
 years. There was not one bullet shot from across the border, from Lebanon to the State of Israel. What a great outcome it may have been if we had a 
 
 similar situation right now, that for 17 years, there will not be any Hezbollah threat to the State of Israel.
 
But I don't think that this is where we are now. So, the question is -- and this is, I guess, what you are interested in, is whether we will now start 
 
 a ground operation. What may be the outcome of this government operation? I quite frankly, don't think that the government is a solution to the 
 
 problem. 
 
I think that may use of the weakening of Hezbollah now and a certain disarray which took place as a result of the targeting of Nasrallah and the 
 
 others, and also the -- all the events which took place before the pagers, the walkie talkies, the elimination of some of the other commanders, 
 
 whether Israel took responsibility or not, but it happened weakened the Hezbollah.
 
And perhaps this is the time where a concerted effort by the Lebanese government, by the State of Israel, by America and by France to build up 
 
 the military power of the Lebanese to squeeze inside Lebanon, the Hezbollah and to try them of the positions and military capacities within Lebanon is what we should do, in 
 
 coordination with the State of Israel and in an agreement which will --
 
ANDERSON: Mr. Olmert, with respect that is, you know how weakened that Lebanese army is. So, long term that might be an option, that isn't an 
 
 option. There is no way that that Lebanese army can be bolstered with sufficient capability anytime soon. Netanyahu's critics, both here and 
 
 abroad say that this is him trying to prolong a Forever War. And I know that you've been an arch critic to keep his far-right coalition on board, 
 
 but many others are supporting his decision to go after Hassan Nasrallah and his commanders and to keep up that momentum.
 
You don't agree that that is where he should go from here on in. What's the alternative at this point? I mean, a ceasefire proposal tabled by the U.S. 
 
 and France has gone nowhere at this point, a diplomatic solution doesn't seem to be in the toolbox for the Israeli prime minister at
 
 this point.
 
OLMERT: (INAUDIBLE) of the war in the north, in the south, which will be acceptable to the prime minister of Israel. So, I've been a very 
 
 comfortable position. And you ask me, what do you think of the prime minister of Israel? But I don't want to spell it out now because this is 
 
 not what I want to say. What I want to say is that we have to stop the war in the south and I think we have reached the objective that we set out that 
 
 we could achieve in the south.
 
And there is nothing more that is worth the cost of fighting in the south, but particularly the danger to the lives of the hostages which are still 
 
 alive and which we may have brought them back in part of an agreement to ceasefire in the south and pull out. What we need to do in the north, we 
 
 need to create a certain platform together with France and with the United States and the United Nations and an international force and robust 
 
 international force different from the one that thing now in the South of Lebanon.
 
And in coordination with the Lebanese government that will end to resolve all the outstanding issues between us and the Lebanese about the borderline 
 
 and the Shiva farms which are minor issues that can be resolved, I think.
 <br>[10:10:04]
 
And to establish a certain process that will allow the Hezbollah to move -- that weakened Hezbollah, the devastated Hezbollah, not the Hezbollah of a 
 
 year ago, after the terrible impact that it went through with the -- all the events which took place in the last few weeks, in order to move them 
 
 out away across from the Litani River in the north. This will not resolve all the issue, but it will open up for an opportunity to build up the 
 
 necessary political powers and the military powers within Lebanon which may change the balance there.
 
But in the meantime, it will allow -- bring back the distance of the north into where they live.
 
 (INAUDIBLE) we don't ask whether Netanyahu agrees to it. Do you think that or do you -- I -- do you wonder whether Netanyahu will be ready to conclude 
 
 the military operations in the south and the military operations in the north, and sit down and start to think that is, I think beyond him. I don't 
 
 think he wants it.
 
I don't think he is capable of it. I don't think that he is ready yet to face all the other challenges which awaits him to conclude the war. So 
 
 (INAUDIBLE) mother of Lebanon and I prefer not to even think what may be the possible ramifications for us.
 
ANDERSON: Well, nearly a year on from October the 7th, Benjamin Netanyahu has staged a remarkable turnaround, though Likud's party would still 
 
 struggle to form an election or a government where elections held today. This campaign in recent weeks has buoyed the prime minister to heights 
 
 pretty unimaginable in the aftermath of the Hamas attack. And in what is perceived as a largely political move.
 
Netanyahu brought in a former rival, Gideon Saar into his government as a minister without portfolio. Just have a listen to what he said, sir.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL (through translator): Now, it's no secret that there were differences between us in the past, but 
 
 since October 7th, we both put behind us all that has happened. That's what happened when Gideon Saar joined the government in October. And that's how 
 
 it is going to be when Gideon is returning to the government and the security cabinet today.
 
We will work together shoulder to shoulder and I intend to use his help in the forums that influence the conduct of the war.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALLACE: What do you make of that decision?
 
OLMERT: You want to ask me what do I think about it? It sounds really -- by the way, I suggest that you will not be carried away with what appears to 
 
 be two weeks of success. That would have changed entirely the political balance in Israel. The polls, which were taken yesterday, after the 
 
 operation in the weekend, after the speech of Netanyahu in the United Nations showed the same balance between the two blocks.
 
Seventy-two members of the Knesset are -- which is a huge majority against the government and against Netanyahu. So, I think that for the time being 
 
 Netanyahu holds on (INAUDIBLE) coalition he will have a most stable coalition for the time being, in terms of numbers in the Knesset. Not in 
 
 terms of the attitude of the Israeli public opinion, not in terms of the attitude of the political different factions.
 
They are -- they don't trust him. They don't believe in him. They don't think that he is focused on what is important for the State of Israel. We 
 
 are in the middle of a big crisis. A crisis where Israel is, on the one hand, in a wall which we completely all of us support the basic objectives 
 
 of -- from the beginning, considering how it started and what happened to us and how the brutal Hamas murders butchered and killed and raped and 
 
 beheaded Israeli.
 
Something which is unforgivable and unforgettable and it necessitated the Israeli reaction. The other hand, we have a government which we don't 
 
 trust, a government which we don't believe in, and a prime minister which is in the middle of a war in the State of Israel doesn't have the support 
 
 of the majority of the people. So, we have to deal with it. This is a serious political battle. Israel doesn't have the support of the majority 
 
 of the people, so we have to deal with it. 
 <br>[10:15:07]
 
This is a serious political battle and a serious civilian battle, which will be carried on. But in my mind, the outcome is inevitable. It's just a 
 
 matter of time. What will exactly cause the collapse of this government, regardless of how many votes they may have in the Knesset? I don't know. 
 
 The end of the day, it will be one stroke.
 
They will break up the entire structure. And of course, as soon as far as I'm concerned, the better. It will be because of the lack of budget, the 
 
 economic crisis, which is now deepening, and particularly after the decide -- to reduce the rating of Israel. The continued problem of the hostages, 
 
 the fact that the hostages are not brought back and doesn't want to make an agreement about the hostages.
 
So, I don't know exactly what will bring it down, but it will be brought down and they -- what the appearance of some political achievements will 
 
 disappear.
 
ANDERSON: Ehud Olmert, it's good to have you on today. Thank you very much indeed for joining us.
 
President Joe Biden says he will speak with the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu soon, Biden says a wider war must be avoided and the 
 
 U.S. is taking precautions, he says.  Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaking a short time ago, said the world is safer without Hassan 
 
 Nasrallah.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: Hassan Nasrallah was a brutal terrorist whose many victims included Americans, Israelis, civilians 
 
 in Lebanon, civilians in Syria and many others as well. During his leadership of Hezbollah, the group terrorized people across the region and 
 
 prevented Lebanon from fully moving forward as a country. Lebanon, the region the world are safer without him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, meanwhile, the Pentagon says that it plans to reinforce its air support capabilities in the Middle East, amid concerns about a wider 
 
 conflict. Well, Jim Sciutto joining me here in Tel Aviv. And Jim, it is unclear yet whether Iran, whether or not Iran, will respond to Hassan 
 
 Nasrallah's assassination. They have been largely absent safer statements of condemnation and threats of retaliation. If they do respond that risks a 
 
 wider regional war. What is the U.S.' calculus at this point?
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF U.S. SECURITY ANALYST: Well, the U.S. priority, really, going back to October 7th has been one, support Israel as it 
 
 responds to the October 7th attacks, but also prevent this from escalating, expanding into a broader war, and it's pursued that really, on two fronts, 
 
 one via ceasefire and hostage release deal in Gaza, and also, more recently, a ceasefire deal on the northern border.
 
I think one can say that those diplomatic efforts have failed to this point. Those talks may not be dead, but they're certainly not going 
 
 anywhere right now in Gaza or regarding Lebanon and Israel. The other piece of the strategy has been to position greater forces here in the region, 
 
 carrier strike groups, missile submarines, partly as support of Israeli military action but also a message to Iran that if this gets bigger, we 
 
 have Israel's back.
 
It's not clear how that has contributed to holding back the further expansion or further retaliation say from Iran. We don't know. The 
 
 perception in the U.S. is that the message has been made clear by having those forces there, that if you expand, if it's Israel, via Iran, the U.S. 
 
 would defend Israel. The question then becomes, what does Iran do to your point? I mean, it may be and some of this is in their public commentary, 
 
 that they are concerned, right?
 
That if they were to strike Israel, that they might get hit quite hard and Hezbollah might be making that same calculation right now. What are they 
 
 capable of doing? So, the military message may be working to some degree hard to calculate what -- how the diplomatic path is just -- it's just not 
 
 working for the U.S. right now.
 
ANDERSON: With less than 40 days to go before a U.S. election, the last thing that Joe Biden is going to want is the U.S. forces in region being 
 
 drawn into a wider conflict here. And any -- and any retaliation by Iran and again, it's not clear that we are going to see that. Although we hear 
 
 the threats could from Israel result in attacks, for example, on nuclear facilities.
 <br>[10:20:08]
 
And you may also see threats to U.S. forces in region by Iran and its proxies around the region.
 
SCIUTTO: It's just not clear how much influence the White House has right now over the Israeli government. We've seen -- you talk about the 
 
 diplomatic efforts.
 
ANDERSON: The Israeli government or Benjamin Netanyahu?
 
SCIUTTO: Well, Benjamin Netanyahu, well, he's the leader, right? And that's the thing as you -- as you correctly referenced there, there's disagreement 
 
 within the government about the path forward. You hear some of that from Ehud Olmert, although, of course, he's out of government. It's not clear 
 
 what the level of U.S. influence is because the U.S. has pressed not just on those diplomatic efforts, it's pressed on -- for instance, a greater 
 
 attention to civilian casualties in Gaza.
 
Whole host of fronts where Netanyahu has largely pursued his own strategy and priorities. So, going forward, at least through the election and likely 
 
 the inauguration, right? Because, if there's a lame duck period that persists, that he might -- Netanyahu perceive that he has he has leeway now 
 
 to act as he sees fit to the great frustration of U.S. officials. And you saw some of that with the Nasrallah strike.
 
Very quickly, U.S. officials came to me and my colleagues and said, we're not involved, we didn't even get advance warning. And I think some of the 
 
 message there was, Israel is on its own on this. Not in terms of defending itself but in terms of making a decision like that to escalate. 
 
ANDERSON: Well, they're very quick, of course, to suggest that the assassination of the Hassan Nasrallah who has been responsible for the 
 
 deaths of U.S. citizens, Lebanese citizens, French citizens, over is 32- year period.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCIUTTO: A hundred percent. You know, praise for the result but the concern about the danger of escalation remains.
 
ANDERSON: It's always good to have you.
 
SCIUTTO: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Thank you very much indeed. Ahead on CONNECT THE WORLD. With a million people in Lebanon forced out of their homes by Israeli strikes, 
 
 I'll speak with one of the key agencies trying to get help to displaced people right now. That is after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Lebanon is estimating that a million people have been displaced by Israel's military campaign against Hezbollah there. That is 
 
 roughly 20 percent of the country's entire population. The Lebanese caretaker prime minister said that "the -- this is the largest displacement 
 
 operation" and it happened in the south within a span of just a few hours. The situation poses major challenges related to food, shelter and public 
 
 health.
 
Well, Mathieu Luciano is the head of the Lebanon office for the International Organization for Migration or IOM. And he joins us now from 
 
 Beirut. New art there. We have seen the images of people camped out with nearly a million displaced in some way or another. Give us a sense of the 
 
 situation in the city for people right now.
 <br>[10:25:04]
 
MATHIEU LUCIANO, HEAD OF LEBANON OFFICE, INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF MIGRATION: Thank you. Good morning, Becky. And thank you very much for 
 
 having me. I mean -- I mean you said it right. I mean, you saw the images. You saw the footages as well. You know, in the past -- in the past week, 
 
 really, hundreds of thousands of Lebanese have fled. They left their homes to be able to seek -- to seek shelter.
 
So, the numbers are really difficult to quantify. Indeed, you know, the government speaks about a million-person displayed. What we know, and as of 
 
 you know, the latest figures is that 150,000 people are registered, have sought shelter in one of the 850 schools that our government has as opened. 
 
 So the needs are really dire. People are living from everywhere. I mean, you know, I mean, you've said that. You know, the conflict has been going 
 
 for a year nearly.
 
And then people used to be displaced, you know, mostly from the -- from the south because of the -- of the shedding in the -- in the south. But what 
 
 we've seen, you know, in the last the past 10 days, in the last week, is really people living from everywhere, living from the south, leaving from 
 
 the Beqaa, living from Beirut as well to seek -- to seek shelter.
 
ANDERSON: And leaving from the north into Syria which itself has been, of course, destabilized over the past 10 years or more by conflict. Just how 
 
 big a risk do Lebanese civilians face who are on the move at this point?
 
LUCIANO: Yes. So maybe just to go back on the -- on the fact that, indeed, not everybody is seeking, you know, I mean, shelter, refuge, you know, 
 
 within Lebanon. And many, actually, in the past week have tried to cross into Syria. I think, you know, I mean, the figures are more or less 150,000 
 
 people who crossed into Syria in the past week. 100,000 Syrians but also 50,000 Lebanese across all border posts, whether it's actually regular 
 
 border crossings or irregular border crossings as well.
 
I mean, the journey here is very difficult as well. Some of the border points have been bombed, too. And we've seen also, you know, images of, you 
 
 know, long queues at the -- at the -- at the border and people waiting to enter. I mean, the situation is very, very difficult for, you know, all the 
 
 people who've been displaced. As you said, they need shelter. They need a place to stay, and we still have many people sleeping on the -- on the 
 
 streets.
 
They need blankets, they need mattresses, they need food. They need access to healthcare services as well. So -- I mean, the needs are really, really 
 
 significant and we're just making every effort, you know, with our U.N. colleagues as well and the government to be respond to those needs.
 
ANDERSON: And there have been offers of support. I know the UAE, United Arab Emirates, has offered $100 million in support for humanitarian needs 
 
 and other countries also providing or offering support. It's about the mechanism and how that support gets the people who need it most. This has 
 
 been, of course, a caretaker government in Lebanon since 2019. And logistically, how tough are things going to be if this continues?
 
Israel's defense ministry Yoav Gallant signaling today Israel may carry out a ground offensive. We've seen the tanks lining up on the border. What 
 
 would that mean for the people in the south and for -- the sort of needs going forward?
 
LUCIANO: Yes. I mean, if there was to be, indeed, the land, you know, land incursion into Lebanon and into the south, I mean, the situation would be, 
 
 actually, you know, even more catastrophic. What we can, you know, remind ourselves of is the 2006 example. I mean, the war in 2006 where, you know, 
 
 there was -- there was indeed -- I mean heavy shelling and land incursion in the -- in the south.
 
But as it means, it is that people will be stuck, right? I mean, they won't be able to leave because of damages to the roads, to the bridges. So, 
 
 they'd be stuck under the fire line. It would be very difficult for them to access any type of humanitarian assistance and it will also be really 
 
 difficult for us to reach them and provide any relief. So, we've been working on that for the past year, you know, into the preparedness and 
 
 ensuring that we position stocks, you know, of shelter rights and blankets and food.
 
And we actually -- to position -- to position them strategically in areas where they would be needed, including in the -- including the staff. So 
 
 those exist, but again, access would be a significant constraint if they were really put military operation in the --in the south. As you said, 
 
 there's, you know, there's a need for resources. I read as well, and so as well, that the UAE has committed to contributing $100 million.
 <br>[10:30:01]
 
I mean, other, you know, other countries, other governments have also, you know, indicated that they're happy to ready to support. The U.N. will 
 
 launch tomorrow with the government an appeal which will outline the priority needs and funding needs. So, this will be launched tomorrow 
 
 morning.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. It's a real message of concern there from Beirut. Thank you. As we mentioned, mentioned, the UAE has unveiled a $100 million package of 
 
 aid to Lebanon. The announcement saying that the funding directed by the president, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan is part of the UAE's continuing 
 
 support and commitment to the Lebanese people. 
 
All right. Well, you are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. Just ahead, the struggle to reach areas devastated by Helene now among the deadliest 
 
 hurricanes to hit us in modern times.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. You watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me Becky Anderson coming to you live from Tel Aviv, in a region that is on a knife's 
 
 edge this Monday. More on that is coming up. First up though, Hurricane Helene now ranks amongst the deadliest hurricanes to strike the mainland 
 
 U.S. in the last 50 years. At last count, more than 100 people are reported dead across six states after high winds, torrential rain and flash flooding 
 
 triggered by the hurricane ripped through the southeastern U.S. last week.
 
Communities impacted by the storm are racing to recover from the massive destruction left behind. North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper spoke to CNN 
 
 about what his state is facing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. ROY COOPER (D-NC): Rivers are still rising, so the danger is not over, the flooding is likely not over and we are sending a stern message to 
 
 people consider the roads closed in western North Carolina. We do not need sight seers coming in to observe the damage.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, meantime, Asheville, North Carolina, is still reeling from Hurricane Helene days after it swept through the city, causing massive 
 
 flooding and destruction. Last hour, Asheville's mayor told CNN her city looks like a post-apocalyptic scene from a television show. CNN's Rafael 
 
 Romo monitoring rescue operations.
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN SENIOR LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS EDITOR: We're standing in one of the hardest hit areas here in Asheville, North Carolina were 
 
 surrounded by mud. And if you can see behind me that fast food restaurant is surrounded by mud as well.
 <br>[10:35:08]
 
There are other establishments, businesses here that are surrounded not only by mud, but also by debris. And then many things that were carried by 
 
 the force of the flood waters, like this barrel or container that ended up here in the middle of this gas station where we are.
 
And if you multiply the scene around me, times, dozens, maybe hundreds, you begin to get an idea of what Western North Carolina is facing right now. I 
 
 was also noticing, for example, that this gas pump, when you look at the screen, it has sand inside, which means that the water level was at least 
 
 this high at one point. And we have been hearing from state officials who have said that they set up a system by which they bring water and food to 
 
 here in this community, Asheville, and then, because many roads are impassable, they need to airlift those supplies to get the people that are 
 
 in need.
 
Governor Roy Cooper earlier said that there are 19 -- at least 19, search and rescue teams from out of state trying to help in the effort. Add to 
 
 those teams an additional three teams with the federal government and you begin to get an idea of the kind of massive operation that is going on 
 
 right now. Also, the main problem for this community and others here in western North Carolina is that people have no water or power.
 
And it's making the situation desperate day by day. Another problem is that there are many people who still have no cell phone service and much less 
 
 internet. Those people have been unable to communicate with loved ones in other states, according to county officials here, they said that they have 
 
 received so far about a thousand missing people reports to the 911 system. 
 
Rafael Romo, CNN, Asheville, North Carolina.
 
ANDERSON: Well, we are waiting on U.S. President Biden to give an update on response efforts in the wake of Hurricane Helene. And that is where he will 
 
 speak in Washington. Let's get the view from CNN Senior White House reporter Kevin Liptak who joins us now. Kevin President Joe Biden will 
 
 address the nation this hour about the federal government's response to Hurricane Helene. At this point, what sort of detail do we have?
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, the President has updated us yesterday that there are 3300 federal workers on the ground helping these 
 
 communities recover. A lot of their efforts had been prepositioned as they tracked this storm heading into the Gulf Coast. Of course, it's not just 
 
 North Carolina that's been affected. It's a whole swath of states along the eastern seaboard, including Georgia and Florida.
 
And so, what you can expect to hear from President Biden is an update on those efforts and trying to relay his administration's focus on this very, 
 
 very serious issue. Now we did hear yesterday that President Biden had spoken to a number of governors in the affected states, as well as mayors, 
 
 even down to the level of emergency administrators in these places, trying to gage what their needs will be going forward.
 
And he also said that he planned to visit some of these affected areas as long as it didn't get in the way of the first responders and of the 
 
 emergency recovery efforts. So, you could expect to see that happening, not necessarily in the immediate future, but certainly down the road. President 
 
 Biden wanting to get a firsthand look at exactly what has happened in these places. Of course, this is all coming against the backdrop of the American 
 
 election.
 
Certainly, this is a human tragedy and a natural disaster, but you really can't separate the two five weeks before the election. And today we will 
 
 also see Donald Trump visiting some of these affected areas in Georgia, both Georgia and North Carolina, of course, critical battleground states. 
 
 We heard from the Democratic candidate yesterday, Kamala Harris, voicing her concern for these states.
 
She says that she too will also visit when it doesn't impede the recovery efforts. But certainly, this is a very serious thing that President Biden 
 
 is now paying full attention to.
 
ANDERSON: Right. It's good to have you, Kevin, thank you. Kevin Liptak is out of Washington, D.C. Well, the time is 10:39. Let's turn to Asia where 
 
 floods and landslides, triggered by heavy monsoon. Rains have killed at least 192 people in Nepal. Plan as rescue workers reach more remote areas, 
 
 officials warn that the death toll there will likely rise. 96 people have been injured since Friday and dozens more are missing. Images show 
 
 floodwaters sweeping over parts of the capital city of Kathmandu.
 <br>[10:40:03]
 
And other videos show entire buildings collapsing as the land below gives out. Meanwhile, rescue workers are searching for survivors and digging them 
 
 out, we are told by hand, including this two-year-old boy who was saved after two hours of grueling work. You're watching CONNECT The WORLD. I'm 
 
 Becky Anderson. We will be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, today on Call to Earth we continue with the spotlight on the Philippines and an organization working to conserve the country's last 
 
 remaining pristine rainforest. Winning critical habitat protection for a forested area known as Cleopatra's Needle gave the team the Center for 
 
 Sustainability. Their first big win in Palawan but now they've turned their attention to a new project on the southern half of the island. Have a look 
 
 at this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
K.M. REYES, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND COFOUNDER, CENTER FOR SUSTAINABILITY PH: Hello. 
 
So, we're in the barangay hall of Barangay Princess Urduja which is one of three of our barangays or villages that make up the area that we're trying 
 
 to protect. So, the proposed Sultan Peak critical habitat.
 
BILL MAHER, HOST, HBO'S 'REAL TIME (voice-over): According to K.M. Reyes, Sultan Peak also known as Kunsa (ph) to the indigenous is part of the only 
 
 mountain range in Palawan that has no formal protection.
 
REYES: The area that we're trying to protect is about 8000 hectares pristine rainforest, also this incredible watershed system and it's 
 
 completely unstudied.
 
MAHER (voice-over): The region is also rich in nickel, a highly-coveted mineral essential to clean energy technologies like electric vehicles, wind 
 
 turbines and solar panels.
 
REYES: The barangay is about to release a public official statement that they openly and strongly oppose mining operations happening in their 
 
 village. They would like for those rights at the indigenous as well as the local government unit to be recognized.
 
MAHER (voice-over): Just like they did with Cleopatra's Needle, the C.S. team is exploring this wild, unstudied area to document its flora and 
 
 fauna, which will help justify its protection.
 
REYES: We live for the field work. I think it's also the secret sauce at C.S. because if you don't have that connection to nature, then you kind of, 
 
 yes, forget what your North Star is.
 
MAHER (voice-over):  This excursion is focused on training local field guides who signed up for a long-term research project led by staff member 
 
 and wildlife biologist Aubrey Jayne Padilla. One of their jobs is to simply take pictures. Lots and lots of pictures.
 <br>[10:45:03]
 
AUBREY JAYNE PADILLA, RESEARCH PROGRAM COORDINATOR, CENTER FOR SUSTAINABILITY PH: We take and document everything that we see on the 
 
 trail, particularly flowering plants. So flowering plants is very specific season, and we don't know when we'll ever see them again.
 
MAHER (voice-over): The images will eventually be uploaded to a database on the iNaturalist platform. An open-source tool that helps identify plants 
 
 and animals, but also generates data for science and conservation.
 
PADILLA: So, now we have this one, which I don't know. So, we're taking a photo, especially the flowers and arrangement of the leaf, so we'll have it 
 
 on record.
 
MAHER (voice-over): In this beautiful landscape, the hard part is staying focused on the task at hand because even the most inconspicuous speck of 
 
 green can be a significant find.
 
REYES: So, we just found bloodwort which is a carnivorous plant that we see here. What is exciting about it is that it is a possible bioindicator of 
 
 water quality. So, for us at C.S. we like to note it down, and it's part of the work that we do later on to kind of prove, yes, what's important about 
 
 the area, why it needs protecting.
 
MAHER (voice-over): With agriculture, supporting the majority of families on this part of the island, the water coming off of Sultan Peak is critical 
 
 for protection. K.M. and the Center for Sustainability Team hope they can protect Sultan Peak within three years, one year faster than what they 
 
 pulled off with Cleopatra's Needle.
 
REYES: It's so urgent to protect our last remaining wild places, we all have the power to change the course of history, and the course of history 
 
 can just be in your own backyard. It doesn't mean that you're going to be recognized globally for the work that you do or the changes that you make, 
 
 but I think we all have the power to change what's happening in the world. And I think C.S. is a living example of that.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: And to watch the full afar special on CNN digital search, Call to Earth conservation rises. We are going to take a very short break. Back 
 
 after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson for you in Tel Aviv, in Israel. An update in the breaking news that we've been 
 
 following this hour. And the United States believes that Israel could imminently launch a more limited incursion in Lebanon. That's according to 
 
 an American official. CNN has learned that Israeli Special Forces recently carried out small raids in Lebanon as part of preparations for a potential 
 
 ground offensive.
 
Now this comes after Israel's defense minister gave the clearest sign yet of a possible invasion, saying the killing of Hezbollah leader Hassan 
 
 Nasrallah is an important step, but not the final one. Despite losses inflicted on the group, Hezbollah's highest-ranking official has vowed to 
 
 continue fighting Israel and defend Palestinians. Well, earlier today, I spoke to retired Israeli intelligence officer Mary Eisin.
 
And I asked her what the IDF would be targeting in southern Lebanon if the tanks and troops roll in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
COL. MIRI EISIN (RET.), FORMER ISRAEL INTELLIGENCE OFFICIAL: Hezbollah, like Hamas, have built themselves underground, subterranean. We've seen 
 
 what that has done in the Gaza Strip. So, it's to go into an area where you have underground tunnels. In those tunnels and Hezbollah puts out different 
 
 types of clips all the time showing them firing rockets, firing missiles, launching suicide drones. But also, they keep showing the clips of the 
 
 pickup trucks and the motorcycles with the Radwan Forces to come in to Israel, to kidnap, to kill, to murder, to go back.
 
And we all know what hostages do. So, what Israel would be doing would be going in to get to those Radwan Forces that are deployed in Lebanon. They 
 
 are Lebanese. They're a Hezbollah Shiite, Arabic speaking Lebanese to go in and to take care of that. But that's not a buffer zone. That's to go in to 
 
 take care of that. And at the end, there is an international force there, UNIFIL, there is a Lebanese army.
 
You have options to not stay there, not be in a buffer zone, but none of those forces are going to now disarm Hezbollah. They have not done so since 
 
 2006 and it's up to Israel to be able to do so, again, to allow our citizens to go back into their homes after 11-1/2 months.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: And these are images for Northern Israel. Nic Robertson Joining me now with more. And you've been talking to your sources here as we report 
 
 that CNN has learned that a limited ground invasion is likely imminent. What are you learning?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: We've been pressing our sources on this for the past week because the signaling of troops on the 
 
 border, reservists being called up additional troops, thousands more called up, the images of them getting their rifles, the tanks that we're now 
 
 seeing positioned along the border. It's all speaking to that incursion. So, we've been trying to press to find out what sort of incursion.
 
And the answer that comes back is, look, what's been stated is we want to protect our civilians who live along the border. We've been along the 
 
 border. What does it look like? That looks like Hezbollah in a house in a village next to the border. They can pop up at a window with a shoulder 
 
 launch, rocket, anti-tank rocket or whatever, and fire it at a house -- an Israeli house, perhaps half a mile, a mile away.
 
That's what we understand from our sources. This initial phase would be about to take control of that area where Hezbollah has sort of free range 
 
 to pop into houses, launch a rocket and pop out again. Can they limit it to that? It's not clear. What does it look like on the ground? Does it mean 
 
 scorched earth, raised ground, all those buildings overlooking Israel? Does that mean they're gone in a month's time? It's not clear. But a buffer zone 
 
 of a kilometer to two kilometers of what -- is what we're hearing
 
ANDERSON: This would be working on the momentum that Benjamin Netanyahu and his government military now have, in the wake of not just the taking out of 
 
 Hassan Nasrallah, the head of Hezbollah, who has waged war on Israel and has been involved in other activities around this wider region. It will be 
 
 to ensure that they take advantage of that momentum and get in on the ground to clear the threat for some 60,000 Israelis, as we understand it, 
 
 who have now had to leave those towns and villages, of course, many, many people displaced on the other side of the border in southern Lebanon.
 
The question is, as we talk about this incursion being limited in scope. The optics, though, will be clear. This is Israel going into Lebanon and 
 
 waging war.
 
ROBERTSON: And the optics will also be well Prime Minister Ben Netanyahu who has broad political support, cross party support for the killing of 
 
 Hassan Nasrallah further way decimating of the Hezbollah leadership at the moment and the understanding of the population that if you're going to 
 
 press the advantage against Hezbollah, this is the moment to do it. It will also be seen as the -- as an achieve -- not just an achievement for the 
 
 Prime Minister, but something that he wants for his own political survival.
 
So, there will be also sort of a realistic pragmatic, but cynical view of why the Prime Minister is doing this. But to your point and -- but I raise 
 
 that as the understanding about the Prime Minister doing things for his own political survival. Because the calculus here is that the lessons of 2006 
 
 incursion, the lessons of 1982 going in and pulling out in 2000 many years later, without removing Hezbollah. Let's face it, they're built up so much 
 
 since both of those that it's been costly for the IDF.
 
But I was in a briefing with a very senior official, very well informed about all of this a few weeks ago, and he said there is no such thing as a 
 
 limited incursion. It becomes a deeper incursion.
 <br>[10:55:03]
 
So, to your point, had the lessons of history been learned, it's not clear, and the critics would -- if they haven't been learned, in a months' time, 
 
 the critics will be saying this is all for the Prime Minister.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, Nic. Nic Robertson with me here in Tel Aviv. That is all that we have time for today. But we have a lot more top rate 
 
 analysis for you across all of our platforms, including this latest piece by CNN veteran Middle East correspondent Ben Wedeman, my colleague, about 
 
 Israel's ambitions to change the balance of power in the region. 
 
He writes, Israel's leader sees an opportunity opening up for a fundamental reconfiguration of power in the Middle East, and he may assume that 
 
 Hezbollah are mortally wounded.
 
He goes on to say, total victory, however, is elusive, and those who get what they wish for often live to regret it. You can head to our Web site 
 
 for that piece and an awful lot more. You can also scan that barcode on the bottom of your screen to sign up for our Meanwhile in the Middle East 
 
 newsletter. We'll send you our top stories straight to your inbox three times a week. It is a jolly good redo. Sign up for that.
 
That's it for CONNECT The WORLD. From the team working with me here in Tel Aviv. It is a very good evening. Stay with CNN. The Newsroom with Rahel 
 
 Solomon is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END