Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: House Report Finds Evidence Matt Gaetz Paid For Sex & Drugs; Storms Impacting Holiday Travel From Coast To Coast; Former President Bill Clinton Hospitalized For Fever; Viral Moments Of 2024. Aired 5- 5:30a ET

Aired December 24, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:38]
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR:  It is Tuesday, December 24th.
 
And right now on CNN THIS MORNING:
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SENATOR-ELECT JIM BANKS (R-IN):  The contents of the report, this report are very serious. I expect the public to react to it in a serious way. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Opening the Gaetz. The House Ethics Committee releases its report on Matt Gaetz, accusing him of paying for sex and drugs while in office. 
 
Plus, a former president hospitalized. Bill Clinton undergoing testing after contracting a fever. How soon his team hopes to have him home. 
 
And this --  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  For so many people, the flight was oversold. So it was like really, really packed. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Never like to hear that travel trouble. Wintry weather may cause some headaches for travelers heading out for the holidays. 
 
(MUSIC)
 
SOLOMON:  It is 5:00 a.m. here on the East Coast, 5:01 exactly. And here's a live look at the Christmas tree display. This is outside of city hall in Philadelphia on this Christmas Eve morning. 
 
See some people actually on the ground there walking very early risers. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Rahel Solomon, in today for Kasie Hunt. Wonderful to be with you. 
 
Drug use, sex for hire and allegations of violating state laws on statutory rape, all included in a house ethics committee report against former congressman and Donald Trump's first choice to become attorney general, Matt Gaetz. According to the 37-page report, the ethics committee finds that Gaetz, quote, regularly paid women for engaging in sexual activity with him. They also claim that in 2017, Gaetz, quote, engaged in sexual activity with a 17-year-old girl and that the congressman, quote, used or possessed illegal drugs, including cocaine and ecstasy. 
 
Now, to back up their findings, the committee also released pages of documents including text message screenshots between Gaetz and unnamed women and one of the exchanges. The committee says that Gaetz is asking a woman to get him drugs by referring to, quote, a full complement of party favors before asking her what will she be wearing to his hotel. Another screenshot shared by the committee an unnamed woman and Gaetz seemed to be arguing over pay when she says the Gaetz quote, so I'm not to be taken care of for last week? Gaetz responds saying, quote, I gave you 250 today and about last week says, quote, you gave me a drive by. 
 
Now, Gaetz denies paying women for sexual favors and lashed out at the committee for releasing the report. In a post on X, writing in part, they did this to me in a Christmas Eve-Eve report and not in a courtroom of any kind where I could present evidence and challenge witnesses. Lawmakers from both parties, now weighing in on the allegations against their former colleague and Trump's former pick to become attorney general. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BANKS:  The contents of the report, this ethics report are very serious I expect the public to react to it in a serious way. But he's not -- he's not a nominee. He's not a congressman anymore. He's a private citizen of the country. The country expects us to move on. 
 
SEN. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D-RI):  The reflection of this, on the judgment of Donald Trump as perhaps the most remarkable part of this whole story. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Trump, meantime, is standing by his ally. Late last night, Gaetz posting this picture with the caption, I got a great note from President Trump. The note is written on a printed headline of the story and reads, Matt, very unfair. 
 
Joining me now to talk about this is Margaret Talev, senior contributor at "Axios".
 
Margaret, good morning. 
 
MARGARET TALEV, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  How are you? 
 
SOLOMON:  Good, good, good to have you. So let's start with just the fact that there was a lot of back and forth about whether this report would ever see the light of day. It has. It's now out. 
 
What now? I mean, how do you see this playing out in Washington? 
 
TALEV:  Well, you know, you heard some of the commentary there saying he's a private citizen now. But one of the big questions for people in Washington is, is he? He -- he will start shortly as a news anchor on a conservative station. But one of the bigger questions is will Matt Gaetz try to have a comeback, either in Congress again at some point or perhaps in the Senate or as Florida's governor, as a candidate for governor? 
 <br>[05:05:01]
 
So I think if he proceeds with a political campaign in the coming months or year, it will renew a lot of this conversation. But what you're seeing is not just the president-elect saying, you know, very unfair, but a number of President-elect Trump's allies telling Gaetz, don't back down, stay in the fight, or you know, that the mistake he made was, you know, leaving Congress. 
 
So I think to the extent that he is still in the -- you know, in the game politically, this will continue to be an issue. He will also be a commentator. And then there's the question of how this is played out inside the Republican caucus. 
 
My colleague Andrew Solender at "Axios" reporting over the weekend that the way this report was able to come out was that two centrist Republicans or moderate Republicans had joined forces with the Democrats on that committee, the congressional committee, to allow that report to be released. One of these is a Republican congressman from Ohio, Dave Joyce, who his background is as a prosecutor. So he's got some respect for the law. And Andrew Garbarino from New York, and that it was their decision to side with Democrats, according to Andrew's reporting, that allowed this report to come out. 
 
So are there going to be repercussions for them or are they going to be folk heroes inside the caucus or a little bit of both? 
 
SOLOMON:  Yeah, I think that is sort of an important point to this, that it wasn't just the Democratic members of the committee that voted to release this. It was -- it had to be at least one Republican. But according to your reporting, as you just outlined, it was actually two Republicans who actually sided with the Democrats. 
 
Talk to me about the significance of that.
 
TALEV:  Well, I think as were seeing in these weeks before Donald Trump takes office, once again, he has wanted to kind of test the boundaries of where Republican caucus either fear or loyalty or both will -- will lay. And we've seen it more in terms of the nominees. In fact, Gaetz had been the nominee briefly for attorney general. And, so he's wanted to test like, will his party look at his win and see it as a mandate and see the threat of them facing primary opposition as a reason to fall in line.
 
And in a couple of cases, we've seen the limits of that. One has been Gaetz nomination itself. There were too many Republicans in the Senate who just weren't going to go for it. But the House is a different story. The house districts tend to be much more gerrymandered. It's really hard to be a moderate, a Republican, moderate in most congressional seats around the United States. 
 
So, but the margins are going to be so narrow. The Republican majority is going to be so narrow as Donald Trump takes office, in part because he has pulled some House members in to serve in his administration, that really all it takes is a couple of Republicans to -- in the House to sort of fall out of line to halt him overall with legislation. And at the committee level, I think were also seeing the boundaries of that. 
 
There are some things and some people, and I think Matt Gaetz is one of the rare forces who unites most members of Congress. Not all, but most members of Congress. There are some limitations to that loyalty or following up on what Donald Trump has asked for. 
 
SOLOMON:  Yeah. I mean, just speaking of limitations and just how narrow the majority is, you think about how difficult the path ahead might be for someone like Speaker Johnson, sort of trying to manage the conference. 
 
Margaret Talev, thank you for joining us this morning. 
 
TALEV:  Thanks very much. 
 
SOLOMON:  All right. Straight ahead on CNN THIS MORNING: AAA projects a record breaking holiday travel, but storms from coast to coast could cause some holiday hiccups. 
 
Plus, former President Bill Clinton in the hospital after developing a fever. There is hope that he will be home for Christmas. 
 
And shaky ground. Why some Republicans may be having second thoughts on who should hold the gavel in the upcoming Congress. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  You told me earlier this week that you that Speaker Johnson does not have your vote on January 3rd. Is that still the case? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Even more so. He doesn't have my vote. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:13:49]
 
SOLOMON:  Welcome back from coast to coast. We are seeing storms that could make your holiday commute tricky. 
 
And the big question is, is anyone seeing a white Christmas tomorrow? 
 
Meteorologist Derek Van Dam tracking it all. 
 
Derek, give us the good news, the bad news. 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  Good morning. Hey, Rahel. 
 
I think we may have a Christmas miracle on hand in the big apple particularly. Okay, so where it will be beautiful. There may obviously be some parts that may have some problems with this system moving through.
 
So I want to show you the regional actually the national satellite. So we've got storms from coast to coast. There it is on the west coast. We'll get to that in just a second. But let's focus in on what's happening along the east coast. 
 
So when we talk about a Christmas miracle, don't expect a lot of snow. That's the reality. But just enough snow to get those festive flakes flying this morning -- again, Christmas Eve we could get that dusting right here near New York City, Long Island, into the lower Hudson Valley, but a little bit further to the south, you start warming the temperatures up just enough where we have the potential for some freezing rain. 
 
That is why we have this winter weather advisory in place from Baltimore to Philadelphia to our nation's capital. This area has the potential to see a glazing of ice through the course of the day today. 
 <br>[05:15:02]
 
So, not the best timing in terms of getting to friends -- friends and family's house for the Christmas holiday season. But we could see some of those slick spots develop on the overpasses, the bridges, the areas that remain cold overnight and don't get that opportunity to warm up. What time will we expect that freezing rain? 
 
Well, really around this morning about 8:00 a.m. That's when we should have that kind of thick glazing starting to ice over some of those vulnerable areas. But to the south this will be all rain, certainly warm enough for rainfall into the eastern sections of Texas, into Arkansas and southern Missouri as well. 
 
That's where we could find some travel delays from D.C. to New York, thanks to the snow. But Dallas to Memphis, that's because of the rain. And then, of course, out west, this is a whole different storm system, but it is bringing significant rainfall and several feet of snow into the mountainous regions, bringing a guaranteed White Christmas to places like the Rockies and into the Sierra Nevada mountain range and the Cascades. 
 
Look at this, as the computer models take us through the Christmas week, Christmas Day forecast for tomorrow looks mild along the eastern seaboard, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON:  With maybe --  
 
VAN DAM:  Hoping for that -- that white Christmas. SOLOMON:  Yes, yes, I love it. Derek Van Dam with the good news on
 
 Christmas Eve. 
 
Derek, thank you. Good to have you. 
 
All right. And coming up for us, former President Bill Clinton admitted to a D.C. area hospital. The latest on how he's doing after developing a fever. 
 
Plus, we are learning more about the man charged with murder after setting a woman on fire on a New York City subway. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:21:02]
 
SOLOMON:  And just about 20 minutes past the hour. 
 
Here's your "Morning Roundup". 
 
Former President Bill Clinton is in the hospital this Christmas Eve. The 78-year-old is undergoing testing after being hospitalized for a fever. We're told that he's doing fine and they hope to have him home by Christmas. 
 
A 33-year-old man is now charged with murder after allegedly setting a woman on fire on a New York subway train, ultimately killing her. The man is a 33 year old Guatemalan citizen who police say entered the U.S. unlawfully sometime in the last six years. 
 
The involuntary manslaughter case against Alec Baldwin is now over. New Mexico prosecutors are withdrawing their appeal of the dismissed case in connection to the "Rust" set shooting death of a cinema photographer in 2021. Attorneys for Baldwin calling the decision, quote, final vindication. 
 
And from the failed assassination attempt against President-elect Donald Trump to the devastating Baltimore bridge collapse, 2024 was full of viral moments that we followed from our phones. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Buster come here, come here, come here, you little (EXPLETIVE DELETED) 
 
NARRATOR:  Coming in at number ten on the list of most viral videos on CNN that everyone was talking about in 2024, a lovable but very disobedient dog. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hey, are you ready to come in? 
 
NARRATOR:  Over and over again, his owner tries to get him to leave the pool.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Be a good boy for once in your life. 
 
NARRATOR:  But this Florida dog just won't listen. Its only when dad uses his I mean business voice that buster does. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Let's go. Come on. No, sir, Buster. Get over here now!  
 
NARRATOR:  Number nine -- 
 
CATHERINE, PRINCESS OF WALES:  It has been an incredibly tough couple of months --  
 
NARRATOR:  A stunning announcement from Catherine, the Princess of Wales. 
 
CATHERINE:  In January, I underwent major abdominal surgery in London. However, tests after the operation found cancer had been present. 
 
NARRATOR:  In September, Catherine released a video saying she had completed her chemotherapy treatment. Her startling cancer diagnosis announcement came weeks after we learned King Charles was also battling an unspecified cancer, following a procedure for an enlarged prostate in January. 
 
At number eight, dramatic footage of a passenger plane in Brazil falling from the sky in August. The shocking video showed the twin engine turboprop plane spiraling out of the sky into the city of Vinhedo before hitting the ground, killing all 62 people on board. No one on the ground was hurt. 
 
Number seven --  
 
REPORTER:  It is really kicked up --  
 
NARRATOR:  Hurricane Milton makes landfall on Florida's west coast. 
 
REPORTER:  Look at that huge tree limb just blowing through the intersection. 
 
NARRATOR:  It was a dangerous category three storm. 
 
REPORTER:  This fence came down earlier. Right here behind me. Here. And now it seems to be breaking apart. 
 
REPORTER:  Te wind and the storm surge associated with this hurricane that is right now pushing its way inland. 
 
NARRATOR:  Milton dropped about 18 inches of rain on Saint Petersburg, representing a more than 1 in 1,000 year rainfall for that area. 
 
Number six. In September, explosive attacks in Lebanon targeting pagers used by Hezbollah members. The blast killed 12 and injured more than 2,300. CNN learned Israel was behind the attack, which was a joint operation between Israel's intelligence service, the Mossad, and the Israeli military. The Lebanese government condemned the attack as criminal Israeli aggression. 
 
Number five police in Illinois released body camera footage of the deadly police shooting of Sonya Massey in July. The 36-year-old black woman had called 911 for help to report a possible prowler at her home in Springfield. 
 
SONYA MASSEY, BLACK WOMAN:  I heard somebody outside. 
 
DEPUTY:  We didn't see nobody. 
 
DEPUTY:  Nobody's out here. 
 
NARRATOR:  The body camera footage shows the deputy continuing to interact with Massey, but things take a turn when she goes to check on a pot on the stove. 
 
DEPUTY:  Away from your hot steaming water.
 
MASSEY:  Where you going?
 
DEPUTY:  Away from your hot steaming water.
 
MASSEY:  Away from your hot steaming water?
 
DEPUTY:  Yeah. 
 
MASSEY:  I rebuke you in the name of Jesus. 
 
DEPUTY:  Huh.
 
MASSEY:  I rebuke you in the name of --  
 
DEPUTY:  You better (EXPLETIVE DELETED) not. I swear to God. I'll (EXPLETIVE DELETED) shoot you at your (EXPLETIVE DELETED) face!
 
MASSEY:  OK, I'm sorry.
 
DEPUTY:  Drop the (EXPLETIVE DELETED) pot!
 
(GUNFIRE)
 
NARRATOR:  Three shots were fired, killing Massey. No intruder was found. The deputy was fired from his job and charged with first degree murder. He's pleaded not guilty. 
 
At number four on the list, the presidential historian who has correctly predicted nine of the last ten presidential races, makes his pick for the 2024 winner, Kamala Harris. 
 
LAURA COATES, CNN HOST:  Have you ever changed your prediction? 
 
ALLAN LICHTMAN, PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN:  I have never changed my prediction, once I've made a final call.
 
NARRATOR:  Unfortunately for Allan Lichtman, this year's pick didn't pan out for him. 
 
Number three on the list, Baltimore's key bridge collapse. Video shows the moment a cargo ship crashed into the bridge in March. Six members of a road crew who were working on the bridge at the time were killed. A preliminary report by the NTSB found the ship had a pair of catastrophic electrical failures minutes before the crash, and experienced two blackouts a day before. The preliminary report does not conclude a probable cause. 
 
TRUMP:  If you want to really see something that's sad, take a look at what happened --  
 
(GUNFIRE)
 
NARRATOR:  At number two, the failed assassination attempt of Donald Trump. In July, Trump was speaking at his rally in Butler, Pennsylvania, when shots rang out. Trump grabbed his ear, dropped to the ground and was quickly surrounded by Secret Service agents. 
 
SECRET SERVICE AGENT:  I got you, sir. I got you.
 
TRUMP:  Let me get my shoes on. 
 
NARRATOR:  Trump was seen with blood on his ear and cheek as he was rushed off the stage. 
 
The shooting left one person dead and two others critically injured. 
 
Another video from that day shows the moment people attending the rally spotted the shooter on top of a nearby building. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You have someone on top of the roof, look, there he is right there. Right there. You see him? He's laying down. You see him? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yeah. He's laying down. 
 
NARRATOR:  Moments after the 20 year old gunman opened fire, he was killed by a Secret Service sniper. 
 
And the number one viral video of 2024 disturbing hotel surveillance video of Sean "Diddy" Combs. In May, CNN published exclusively obtained video from 2016. In it, you see the hip hop mogul physically assaulting his then girlfriend Cassie Ventura in the hallway of a hotel. Combs previously denied Ventura's allegations of assault, which were the basis of a now settled federal lawsuit filed by Ventura in 2023. 
 
Soon after the video was published, Combs apologized for his behavior in a video statement posted to Instagram. Now in federal custody, Combs was arrested in September after a sprawling federal investigation. He is awaiting trial on numerous charges, including sex trafficking and racketeering conspiracy. He has pleaded not guilty. 
 
Combs is also facing dozens of civil lawsuits accusing him of a range of sexual misconduct and other illegal activity. Attorneys for Combs denied the claims. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON:  And coming up after the break, the House ethics report on Matt Gaetz is now public. So what the details could mean for the future of his political career?
 
Plus, after the recent funding fight, Mike Johnson's future as House speaker appears to be rocky. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. JOSH HAWLEY (R-MO):  And I tell you what, we need to have a serious look at who's leading this Congress, because if this is the best they can do, I mean, it's just -- it's total incompetence. This is a disaster. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)