Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Quinton Lucas is Interviewed about the Super Bowl Parade; Trump's NATO Comments; Uber, Lyft and Deliveroo Workers Plan Strike. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired February 14, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:32:30]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, get ready to drop the confetti. In just a few hours, Kansas City will celebrate its back-to-back Super Bowl wins with a victory parade. We do have live pictures from downtown Kansas City, a wonderful place. You can see the people already lining the streets. Three-time MVP Patrick Mahomes will lead the team on the two-mile parade route. Now, we do want to note, it's unclear if Taylor Swift will be in attendance. She has a show Friday all the way across the world in Australia.
 
We are joined now by Kansas City Mayor Quinton Lucas.
 
Mr. Mayor, thank you so much for being with us.
 
How will this Super Bowl parade be different from all your other Super Bowl parades?
 
MAYOR QUINTON LUCAS (D), KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI: You know, it is hard to describe just how fun a Super Bowl parade is in the first place. But you add beautiful weather today here in Kansas City. In addition, there is also a Swift factor. Even if she doesn't come, it seems like we have so many more teenage girl fans than we ever have of our football team. The game itself was interesting with an overtime win. So, I expect this to be one of the biggest parades we've ever seen in the history of Kansas City.
 
BERMAN: You know, sharing is caring, they say. Are you willing to share Super Bowl parades with other cities in the country or are you just going to claim this forever now?
 
LUCAS: Well, you know, I have been mayor for five years now. We've had three Super Bowl parades. We lost one Super Bowl and we didn't go to another. So, I hope it just gets to keep happening forever. It makes my popularity much higher.
 
BERMAN: That's a hell of a campaign platform, I have to say, for most city mayors right there.
 
You brought up the Swift factor. Let the record show, I did not bring it up. How psyched are you to talk about Taylor Swift? LUCAS: You know, I actually see it as a -- as a helpful conversation. I know there has been -- it's hard to say controversy, because it's usually just dudes on social media saying they don't want her mentioned. But my view is, she is nothing but an additive (ph). I've loved this team since I was born, but I love that we've added somebody who says, yes, Kansas City is cool, it's a dynamic place. She goes out to our restaurants, and everybody loves her. And I'm getting people driving by. So, you know, I think this is an outstanding moment for our city and for everyone in what we call Chiefs Kingdom.
 
BERMAN: Is she going to be there in Chiefs Kingdom today?
 
LUCAS: What's that? I'm sorry.
 
BERMAN: Is she going to be there in Chiefs Kingdom today at the parade?
 
LUCAS: Oh, my goodness, you're looking for me to break news that - that I, first of all, wouldn't and can't right now. All we're saying is, she's absolutely welcome. If she is there, then I know all of her fans will swarm to it. But what we're telling people is, come out for the celebration in Kansas City and you never know what might happen.
 <br>[09:35:05]
 
BERMAN: I do dispute your claim there. I think you can and should break news on Taylor Swift going to the parade with us right now, but I understand that you won't.
 
Mr. Mayor, you, I do understand, have a friendship bracelet.
 
LUCAS: Yes.
 
BERMAN: Now. I'm reliably told by sources, and by that I mean the people who work in the office here with me, that that's like a Taylor Swift thing, friendship bracelets. Will you show us your friendship bracelet and explain to me the deal with that?
 
LUCAS: So, always wearing a friendship bracelet, an important part of kind of the vibe of Kansas City now. I had people handing them to me in Las Vegas on my flight to Las Vegas for the Chiefs game, and there will probably be if not tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of friendship bracelets on hand today at the Kansas City Chiefs parade.
 
You know, I kind of love it because we have melded Swiftie nation with Chiefs Kingdom, with all that is Kansas City. And I think this makes us a much happier place.
 
BERMAN: Mayor Quinton Lucas, mayor of Kansas, Swiftie, we can say, thank you so much for being with us. Congratulations to you and everyone there in your city.
 
LUCAS: Thank you.
 
BERMAN: It was a truly great game, and they're a great team. Thank you, Mayor. Rahel.
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR: John, very insightful interview, but I'm wondering, I got a lot of bracelets. Where - where is my friendship bracelet, John Berman? 
 
BERMAN: I'll get to weaving right now. 
 
SOLOMON: Uh-huh.
 
All right, coming up for us, still ahead, President Biden accusing Donald Trump of bowing to Vladimir Putin. Coming up, we're going to have more fallout from Trump's comments encouraging Russia to attack NATO allies.
 
And chaos in Austin, Texas, overnight after a car crashed through a hospital emergency room. We're going to have this incredible video when we come right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[09:41:10]
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back. 
 
And on our radar this morning, a driver was killed after their car crashed into the emergency room of St. David's North Austin Medical Center in Texas Tuesday. 
 
(VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: You can still hear the tires screeching there as though -- in the lobby of the emergency room as it fills up with smoke. Austin police say that at least five others were injured. Now, the crash does not appear to be intentional, but it's also not clear yet what caused it.
 
In Los Angeles now, two men are under arrest after a string of what deputy say were, quote, random shootings that killed four people. The suspects, a 42-year-old man and a 21-year-old man had been charged with murder, attempted murder, and also conspiracy to commit murder after their 48 hour killing spree. Police say that they are searching for a possible third suspect as well.
 
And this morning, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin made his first appearance since being released from Walter Reed on Tuesday afternoon. Austin led a virtual meeting with the Ukraine defense contact group and gave an update on his health after canceling his trip to Brussels during his most recent -- or due to his most recent hospitalization. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, DEFENSE SECRETARY: I planned to be in person with you today in Brussels, but I had to return to the hospital for non- surgical procedures. I'm in good condition, and my cancer prognosis remains excellent. Now, I'm really grateful for all the well wishes. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: Austin is working remotely today but is expected to return to the Pentagon later this week.
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, shameful, dangerous, and un-American. That is what President Biden called Donald Trump's comments, encouraging Russia to do whatever it wants to NATO countries not spending enough on defense. 
 
With us now is Mark Esper, CNN global affairs analyst and former defense secretary under Donald Trump. 
 
Mr. Secretary, welcome to CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
MARK ESPER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: Thanks, John. Good to be with you.
 
BERMAN: You were on with Poppy just a few hours ago and she asked you if you agreed with President Biden's comments that what Donald Trump said was un-American, and your answer was "probably." You know, why probably un-American? 
 
ESPER: Well, I said probably yes. 
 
Well, look, Americans don't like to see their friends and allies thrown under the bus. And that's basically what was -- what was done when Trump made those remarks. He invited Russia to attack those countries that weren't living up to their commitments. So.
 
BERMAN: You see it as a green light for him to do what? 
 
ESPER: Well, I see it as a green light for Putin to attack another NATO ally, another neighboring country. Now, I think that's unlikely, but, nonetheless, it sends all the wrong messages, not just to Vladimir Putin, but to Xi Jinping in China, who's looking aggressively at Taiwan. Plus, it sends a signal to all of our allies around the world, not just in Europe, but Japan, Korea, the Philippines, and others who face aggressive actions by autocratic. 
 
BERMAN: We've heard from all kinds of Republican members of Congress, including right here yesterday, who say, oh, that's just what Trump says out loud when he campaigns. They say they don't necessarily take him at his war. Do you? 
 
ESPER: Words matter, first of all. But secondly, yes, I do, because I've been in those rooms with him where he's expressed a disdain for Germany. He doesn't understand the importance of the alliance and how its critical to our security as well, and one to pull troops out of Europe. So, look, I take him -- I take him at his word. And I think it's realistic that if he gets back into office, one of the first things he'll do is cut off assistance to Ukraine, if it isn't already cut off, and then began trying to withdraw troops and ultimately withdraw from NATO.
 
BERMAN: Withdraw from NATO?
 
ESPER: If they don't live up to their obligations.
 
And, look, somewhat argue, and I think it's a fair statement to say, that's just a cover. That's just an excuse. He just doesn't like NATO and he wants to pull the United States out. 
 
BERMAN: And is that what you believe? 
 
ESPER: I think it's probably fair to say that, yes. 
 
BERMAN: As for Ukraine, the Senate passed a $90 bill aid package that includes $60 billion for Ukraine. House Speaker Mike Johnson, who, by the way, we're going to hear from, I believe, in just a few minutes, he's going to give a statement. 
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
We don't believe he's going to put that bill on the House floor at all, which means no aid for Ukraine, at least not now. What happens to Ukraine if it doesn't get aid? 
 
ESPER: Well, unless, of course, the Democrats, I think, can file a petition to discharge, that's the way to do that. But look, I -- there is aid -- military assistance in the pipeline. Most military assistance comes from the United States. Most financial assistance comes from our European partners. 
 
But at some point in time, probably months, that runs out. We know right now the Ukrainians, on the battlefield, are rationing ammunition in their fights -- active fights against the Russians in Donbass and elsewhere. 
 
So, look, I think at some point they run out of steam. At the same point in time, they're running out of manpower. And this is a tough situation.
 
Now, the counterargument is that while Putin will continue to press, he's going to look strategically at what happens in the American election in November of 2024. And that, in some ways, will dictate his operational plans on the battlefield.
 
BERMAN: Walk us through that. What do you mean? 
 
ESPER: Well, if he sees Donald Trump come into office, he may say he's going to take -- he might take his own type of strategic pause and see if the United States will completely cut off Ukraine and maybe make some moves to withdraw forces from NATO. He -- that is in his favor right now. Time is increasingly in Putin's favor. 
 
BERMAN: What happens if Donald Trump wins? What do you think happens to the U.S. commitment to Ukraine? 
 
ESPER: Well, I think it ends. I mean, Donald Trump has been very clear that he says he would end the conflict in 24 hours. The only person that can end that conflict in 24 hours as Vladimir Putin by stepping back out of Ukraine. But I think it will fail. He'll cut off - he, Donald Trump, will cut off assistance. And eventually I think our other European allies will falter as well. 
 
Tommy Tuberville, senator from Alabama, said, I think it was just yesterday or the day before, he basically blamed the United States for Russia's invasion of Ukraine. He said it was because the United States pushed NATO to expand further east that Vladimir Putin basically had to invade Ukraine. What do you say to what seems to be this growing sentiment to almost blame the victims? 
 
ESPER: Well, look, the European countries, particularly the Baltic states, the Nordic states and others, have centuries of history with the Russians invading them. And so I think we all knew that after the end of the Cold War they were going to join NATO. We made very clear that we were going to open NATO's doors for them as a security umbrella. 
 
It's important to note that we never took aggressive action against the Soviet Union, or against Russia after the Soviet Union collapse. So, look, I think that's a straw man. 
 
I mean even last year, when we admitted Finland to the - to NATO, Putin said, oh, you know, it doesn't matter as long as you don't put troops there. I just think that's a straw man. The fact is, Putin sees much of this territory, like Ukraine, as part of historic Russia, part of the Russian empire, that he wants to rebuild. 
 
BERMAN: Mr. Secretary, Mark Esper, great to have you here. Thanks so much for being here.
 
ESPER: Thank you, John.
 
BERMAN: All right, Rahel. 
 
SOLOMON: All right, John, still ahead for us, if you are planning to go out tonight for Valentine's Day, and if you were planning on getting a ride share, while you may want a backup plan. We'll explain. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:51:49]
 
SOLOMON: Welcome, John Berman.
 
BERMAN: It's good to be here.
 
SOLOMON: Good to have you.
 
BERMAN: So, if you are flying somewhere to surprise your Valentine this morning, first of all, a, that's very impressive, b, thanks for making the rest of us look bad, but you might need to figure out a different way to get to the airport because thousands of Uber and Lyft drivers in the United States are planning to stop giving rides to and from airports in 10 cities, that includes Chicago and Miami. Food delivery riders and drivers in the U.K. also expected to strike.
 
CNN's Vanessa Yurkevich thankfully here with us. 
 
Why? Why are they doing this to Valentine's Day? 
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rideshare app workers not feeling the love this Valentine's Day. So, you're going to see thousands across the country at ten airports -- I think we have them to put on your screen there so you can check if you're flying into or out of an airport. They are not going to be picking you up or dropping you off. And this is in part because rideshare workers believe that they are making poverty wages for working 80 hours a week. They are often susceptible to carjackings, to violent crimes and they say that as they are taking home less and less pay, the companies like Lyft and Uber are making more and more profits. 
 
We reached out to some of the companies. Lyft saying that they're constantly working on ways to improve driver experiences. DoorDash says that they're always listening to their dashers and looking for ways to improve the platform. And then Uber Eats saying that we tried to engage with our couriers to look at how to improve the experience. 
 
But obviously, this has been something that's been going on for a while. This is not just a Valentine's Day movement. But the problem is rideshare app drivers are not unionized, so they really have to mobilize on their own. This is one way that they believe they can get the attention of Americans who are both using the rideshare apps and ordering delivery just to make the point and basically say that we don't feel like we are being treated fairly. 
 
SOLOMON: Yes, certainly make a point on the - on a day that demand is really high.
 
YURKEVICH: Yes.
 
SOLOMON: Vanessa, talk to me a bit about -- just sort of in terms of inflation. And the inflationary impact, you feel it a lot of places, but maybe people will feel it especially today. How is that changing how people date? 
 
YURKEVICH: Yes. So, the time old question, should we make dinner at home, or should we go out to eat? I mean this is what people decide to do on Valentine's day if they're -- if they're spending time with loved ones. But these numbers may give you a sense of what you should do. 
 
So, if you're going to be cooking at home, prices for food, up 1.3 percent in the last year. Or, excuse me, 1.2 percent in the last year. Compare that to if you want to go out to eat, prices up 5.1 percent. So, that is some measurable savings. A lot of this is because of food prices, but also because wages have increased and restaurants have to pay their workers more. 
 
If you do decide you don't want to stay home and you want to go out to eat, here's some menu items that might save you a little bit of money. Get the ham, get the seafood, get the eggs -
 
BERMAN: Nothing says love like ham. SOLOMON: Not together.
 
YURKEVICH: Not all at once.
 
BERMAN: How (ph) do you want your ham, honey?
 
YURKEVICH: I mean these are the things, separately on the menu, you may what to order. 
 
Things that are more expensive on the menu, tomatoes, frozen juices. So, skip the strawberry daiquiri, and citrus oranges. 
 
SOLOMON: OK.
 
YURKEVICH: So, many if you're deciding between, you know, the cacio e pepe (ph), get that, because eggs are a little bit cheaper, but, you know, skip the pina colada and the - and the strawberry daiquiri when you go out. 
 <br>[09:55:03]
 
SOLOMON: Chose wisely this Valentine's Day -
 
YURKEVICH: Yes.
 
SOLOMON: Because whoever said love don't cost a thing wasn't living in the inflationary period of 2024, and 2023.
 
YURKEVICH: Yes.
 
SOLOMON: Vanessa, thank you. 
 
YURKEVICH: Thank you. 
 
BERMAN: Thank you so much, Vanessa.
 
SOLOMON: All right, Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson expected to speak on Capitol Hill momentarily, expected to tout the impeachment of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. But will he addressed the now slimmer majority House Republicans have. We'll explain.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN: This morning, Republicans pointing fingers at each other for losing that House seat out on Long Island overnight. Their razor thin House majority now even razor thinner, if that's the thing. What lessons can be learned here? 
 <br>[10:00:01]
 
SOLOMON: And despite all of the attacks that Trump has launched against Nikki Haley, would she still endorse him if he wins the Republican nomination?