Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Syrian State T.V.: Israel Launches Deadly Missile Strike In Damascus; Official: United States Personnel Injured In Attack On Al- Asad Air Base In Iraq; Netanyahu Cabinet Minister Suggests Defeating Hamas Is Unrealistic And Calls For Elections; GOP Candidates Make Last Push Before New Hampshire Primary On Tuesday; Trump: New Hampshire Vote "Could End It," "Then We Can Focus On Biden"; Palace Shares Back- To-Back Health Updates On Senior Royals. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired January 20, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: If you want to ask me a question, scan the Q.R. code on your screen right now, or e- mail AslAmanpour@cnn.com.
 
And remember to tell us your name and where you're from. Don't forget, you can find all our shows online as podcast at cnn.com/podcast and on all other major platforms. I'm Christiane Amanpour in London. Thanks for watching, and see you again next week.
 <br>[12:00:37]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Saturday. I'm Fredericka Whitfield.
 
We're following two major stories at this hour. Reports of an Israeli missile strike hitting a building in Syria, a dramatic escalation of tensions in the Middle East.
 
And it's the final weekend in this country before the first primary of the U.S. presidential election. How candidates are spending these last critical hours on the campaign trail?
 
We begin with this "BREAKING NEWS".
 
That missile strike in the Syrian capital of Damascus. Syrian state television says several Iranian military advisors were among those killed, when a building was targeted today. Iranian and Syrian news agencies, both saying Israel was behind the attack.
 
The Israeli defense forces say they won't comment on the reports. Video from the scene showing the building in ruins.
 
We're also getting reports from the Lebanese-state run news agency that four people were killed when Israel targeted a car, traveling near the border between the two countries.
 
CNN's Nic Robertson is in Tel Aviv, Israel. Nic, good to see you. What do we know first about the target of the strike in Damascus?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: It does seem to be by the reporting we're getting from Damascus and from Iranian media outlets as well that this was a house that house IRGC officials, military commanders from the Iranian military.
 
One of them will -- five of them have been named, but one of them -- at least one media outlet in Iran said was a senior IRGC Quds Force Commander. They're sort of overseas operation, if you will, in charge of intelligence inside Syria.
 
CNN can't independently verify that. But this is exactly the sort of target Iranian IRGC targets that Israel has been blamed for striking in Damascus -- in and around Damascus. And in Syria previously, on Christmas day, a very senior IRGC commander was killed in a similar sort of airstrike.
 
Now, it's absolutely typical that Israel will not comment on strikes like this in Syria. It does, in the case of Lebanon, it has said that it struck over the border inside Lebanon today. Didn't say it was responsible for hitting the four people in the vehicle, but did say a hit number of targets.
 
So, this is not out with the norm for Israel not to acknowledge their strike. But it has all their hallmarks. And it certainly has their full military philosophy in Syria, which is absolutely to try to deny Iranian forces, a strong foothold to develop another proxy or allow a proxy in Syria to get even stronger, and threaten Israel. And also connect to the Iranian proxy in Lebanon, Hezbollah. So, this is really part of Israel strategy.
 
And I just have to add here, although there's been no claim of responsibility, we understand that multiple missiles were fired at a U.S. airbase in Iraq. I know Assad, there are a number of injuries to U.S. personnel, not clear how many people are injured right now. The local mayor said a barrage of missiles were fired at the base. Interceptors -- interceptor defensive systems took some of them down.
 
The no claim of responsibility. But typically, it has been Iranian- backed militia inside Iraq that have conducted attacks against U.S. forces.
 
We don't know if that's the case, this time. More than 140 attacks against U.S. bases in Iraq and Syria, mostly by Iranian-backed proxies over the past few months.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Nic, separately, there appear to be divisions opening up in Israel's government. A cabinet minister and former head of the IDF, saying that the goal of completely defeating Hamas isn't realistic. And instead, people are calling for elections. Is this ratcheting up pressure on Benjamin Netanyahu?
 
ROBERTSON: It is. And specifically, Gadi Eisenkot that who you're talking about, and by the way, his son, serving office in the military was killed, and the operations going on in Gaza, as was his nephew the following day back in December.
 
He is widely seen as sort of politically independent, but having a good view with the military situations. [12:05:00]
 
So, when he says Prime Minister Netanyahu needs to level with the people and say that it's not possible to completely destroy Hamas, that is very much a criticism within the war cabinet. And if the war cabinet breaks, then, that will probably lead to elections in Israel, which would likely mean Prime Minister Netanyahu losing his position as prime minister.
 
It is -- it is a real indication of the tensions that are emerging.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Nic Robertson, we'll leave it there for now in Tel Aviv. Thanks so much. All right, let's get some analysis on some of the developments in the region. Joining us right now is retired Navy Commander Kirk Lippold. He was the commanding officer of the USS Cole, when the ship was bombed in October 2000 by al-Qaeda in Yemen.
 
Good to see you. So, let's talk about these recent missile strikes. Israel isn't commenting on the strikes. But if Israel was behind this, what kind of statement is being delivered with this kind of attack?
 
CMDR. KIRK LIPPOLD (RET.) FORMER USS COLE COMMANDER: Well, when you see the strikes that are being conducted, what Israel is basically saying is they are not going to tolerate Iran continuing to destabilize the region.
 
They have conducted these strikes before, into Lebanon, into Syria, because you have to remember, Fredricka, one of the key points is Syria is the transit point that Iran use -- Iran uses to get equipment and weapons down to the Lebanese Hezbollah for them to be able to then conduct strikes into northern Israel.
 
So, interdicting them with the source where they're there in Syria is a vital action that Israel needs to take for its long-term defense requirements.
 
WHITFIELD: And how do you see Iran retaliating? Or even do you see Iran is retaliating? If there thus far is no claim of responsibility?
 
LIPPOLD: I think what you would see if Iran -- if Israel is -- Iran response is going to be more of Lebanese Hezbollah firing into northern Israel, continuing their attacks. But I think ultimately, Iran is not going to do anything that is going to expand the conflict beyond that. They want to keep their powder dry and preserve it for the fact that if Israel, in fact, does continue and destroy Hamas, they want to make sure that if they need to exercise Lebanese Hezbollah, to further their objectives in the region, they want to have that capability. So, they don't want to push that into the conflict right now.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. And commander, you and I, as we heard Nic Robertson discussing, there are growing divisions within the Israeli government. One cabinet minister calling for elections and calling out Netanyahu, and saying that the current strategy is not working, let alone, where are negotiations and what is the demise of the hostages? What do you make of this fracture, this apparent or reported fracture within Netanyahu's ranks?
 
LIPPOLD: That's -- it raises an interesting point, Fredricka, because I think right now, while you may have people that are speaking up, you have to look at the fact that they are, in some ways, while they held positions within the government or within the IDF, it is outliers. And you're always going to have these in any democratically elected government. And you don't want to amplify those voices to a point that it gives the enemy the opportunity to now leverage that against the government of Israel.
 
Right now, you have to remember Iran very much owns the information warfare domain in this conflict. And so, consequently, anything that comes up where a division shows with respect to Israel. Iran is going to use that to their advantage. What we want to do is make sure that we don't give them more credence than they actually have.
 
Just because someone speaks up, doesn't necessarily mean that they are representing a large majority of the Israeli people who continue to support the war effort, given the horrific nature of what happened on October 7th.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We'll leave it right there, Commander Kirk Lippold. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Still to come, GOP presidential candidates making their final appeals just three days now before the New Hampshire presidential primary. Their messages to voters straight ahead. And later, a new deadline for Fulton County, D.A. to respond to allegations of an improper relationship with her special prosecutor.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:13:44]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back. Just three more days until the New Hampshire primary and the remaining GOP candidates are out in full force. Former President Donald Trump and Nikki Haley are trading barbs at events across the Granite State today. While Governor -- Florida Governor Ron DeSantis is choosing to use his time holding campaign events in South Carolina. The primary in that early voting state is just about four weeks away.
 
CNN has teams on the ground across the state of New Hampshire, tracking all the latest developments. Let's start with Omar Jimenez in a very chilly Manchester, New Hampshire. But oh, so picturesque.
 
Omar, just a few critical days remaining. So, what are you hearing from the voters there?
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Look, at this time of year, we're used to the chilly temperature.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
JIMENEZ: So, this is just normal. And all -- that's what the voters have been telling me too. I -- there was a big snowstorm here a few days ago, and I was walking with a few folks in the pouring snow, asking where are you headed? They were still going to campaign events, they were still trying to meet some of these candidates.
 
They even stopped to talk to us. So, they are very much used to this. The question is, how much heat can these campaigns bring in these final days to get some of those folks who are still on the fence to their particular sides.
 
This is a state that has a lot of independent voters, or undeclared as they're known officially here.
 <br>[12:15:02]
 
And to their credit, many that we've spoken to have really taken the time to go to many of these candidates' events, try to actually listen to them on the issues and make a decision based on the issues.
 
And when you just look briefly at what these candidates have been doing. Donald Trump held the rally last night, playing the endorsement of Tim Scott, the South Carolinian, who appointed him, and Nikki Haley also having a flurry of events here. Ron DeSantis, as you mentioned, is in South Carolina today, but he's out with an editorial in the New Hampshire journal, talking about how he wants to make the presidency the live free or die presidency, which matches with the motto here in New Hampshire, Live, Free or Die.
 
So, all in these last 72 hours or so, all of these candidates are really trying to make their last-minute pitches as one grassroots organization, Americans for Prosperity here in New Hampshire. They say they expect a record turnout on Tuesday, no matter the temperature here. And if there is one thing I've gotten from voters here, since I've been here is that they are really treating this primary with a lot of care. They know the stakes of it. And despite what the polls have shown, the best thing about election days or primary days is those polls go out the window, the only ones that matter what the voters actually say at the ballot boxes.
 
WHITFIELD: So true. All right. Omar Jimenez, thank you so much, in nice, snowy, Manchester.
 
Kylie Atwood and Alayna Treene are also with us now. OK, Kylie, there you are. All right, in Manchester, where they've cleared the roads a little bit. So, folks are getting out and about. What are they saying? You know, as they see these candidates, you know, stump. OK, who are we going to right now?
 
Hi, there, Alayna. OK, I guess we're going to you right now. We're having fun with our video right now.
 
All right. So, there you are. Folks are getting out and about there in Manchester. What are they hoping to hear from these candidates in these final hours of their stomping?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN CONGRESSIONAL AND PRESIDENTIAL POLITICS REPORTER: Yes. Well, they are getting out and about. You can see behind me, Fred, already, people are aligning for Donald Trump's rally here in Manchester this evening. His rally is in until 7:00 p.m. But you can see behind me, they're already eagerly waiting to get inside.
 
But look, I think, from the Trump campaign's perspective, the stakes are very high here in New Hampshire. They really do believe that if Donald Trump can win this state by a big margin, that it will effectively end the primary season and force his rivals, Ron DeSantis, and Nikki Haley, specifically out of the race.
 
Now, Trump, for his part, said that explicitly last night while at a different rally in Concord, New Hampshire. Take a listen to what he told his supporters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We'll finish it off. This could -- this could end it. Get the big vote, it ends it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes!
 
TRUMP: But then we can focus on -- then, we could focus on Biden and his thugs.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE: Now, Fred, I will say historically, that he does have a point there. If Donald Trump were to win, Iowa and New Hampshire, of course, he won Iowa earlier this week. He would be the first non-incumbent Republican to have done so in 40 years, and that's something that his team very much recognizes and wants Donald Trump to do on Tuesday.
 
And as part of that messaging as well, Donald Trump is telling his supporters similar to the messaging we heard him use in New Hampshire -- in Iowa, I should say, which is do not get complacent, margins matter. I need you to turn out for me in a big way. Ignore the polls that show me leading by big margins, and come out and vote for me.
 
Now, another big theme for Donald Trump this weekend is really escalating those attacks on Nikki Haley. Nikki Haley is the person they see that he needs to beat here in New Hampshire. And part of that is because of the polls, poll after poll shows that she does very well, with independent voters. They are able to participate in this primary, and so, you're seeing him escalate his messaging.
 
He also, as part, of that, through cold water on the idea that she could potentially be a vice presidential pick, really trying to tamp down expectations about how he views Nikki Haley. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: OK. And she seems less than excited about that notion herself. She did comment and respond to that.
 
All right. Thank you so much, Alayna Treene, appreciate it.
 
OK. Now, let's go to Kylie Atwood, who's in Keene. There we go. A totally different scene there but snowy nonetheless. You're with a Nikki Haley campaign who just had to get out the vote event. So, Kylie, what did Haley say and do? KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Nikki Haley, for the first time today as part of her campaign is questioning former President Trump's mental fitness. That is something that she has avoided doing throughout the entire course of the last few months. She has gone after him on a number of fronts when it comes to policy matters. But today, she said when someone is dealing with the pressures of the president presidency, you can't have questions about their mental fitness. That was what she told voters here in New Hampshire.
 
And she also responded to a number of ads that are on T.V. here in New Hampshire going after her on a number of fronts. Casting Donald Trump is a liar in those ads. And questioning, if you wish to be president, if he's lying in order to gain the presidency?
 <br>[12:20:04]
 
Listen to what she said to voters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And I've seen the commercials you've seen. And let me tell you, everything Donald Trump's put up there is a lie. And if you have to lie to win, you don't deserve to win.
 
He says, I raised the gas tax in South Carolina. I never raised the gas tax in South Carolina. But you know what he did? He proposed all of us having to pay a $0.25 gas tax hike when he was president in 2018.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATWOOD: Now, this is just a different tone for Nikki Haley. She was asked during a CNN debate earlier this year, if Trump has the character to be president, and she really wouldn't directly answer that question. She just said that his way of operating isn't my way of operating.
 
But today, as she is questioning his mental fitness and casting him as a liar, she is really ramping it up in this state, which is could be crucial to the future of her campaign, Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Kylie Atwood. We'll leave it there for now. Alayna Treene and Omar Jimenez all in New Hampshire. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Let's get some added perspective now on the current state of the race with CNN political commentator, S.E. Cupp. S.E., great to see you. Happy new year. I can still say that January in the month of January.
 
S.E. CUPP, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Hi, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. All right.
 
CUPP: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: So, yes, I go through the whole month, saying that.
 
All right. So, former President Trump, I mean, he's hoping for, you know, a real knock out there in New Hampshire, while Nikki Haley is looking to secure a strong enough showing to springboard her campaign, both have been ramping up attacks, as we just saw that latest example on one another in recent days.
 
A little too late for this, or is this good timing in which to do so?
 
CUPP: It can't hurt at this point, right? She is trying -- Nikki Haley is trying to court independents and moderates in New Hampshire. There are a lot of them there. That's a smart strategy. But, I mean, for any of them to have really had a good shot against Trump, I think they should have been conditioning the environment months and months ago, with, you know, attacks against Trump and really sort of setting the stakes for why, you know, other Republicans should consider choosing someone else. And that could be everything from Trump could be in jail on election day to, you know, Trump wanted to overturn democracy, and we'll probably try it again.
 
Or what Nikki has been saying as well that he didn't deliver on a lot of the promises he made. I mean, there were a lot of avenues to go down if you wanted to take on Trump. And they all kind of waited say for Chris Christie. They all kind of waited to the last minute.
 
WHITFIELD: And Nikki Haley has been priding herself on having momentum, but I wonder if this next thing is kind of, you know, distracted her at all. I mean, she was governor of South Carolina, she appointed Tim Scott to the U.S. Senate.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CUPP: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: But now, I mean -- this is a significant snub, is it not that he is endorsing former President Trump. In fact, for folks who didn't see it, this is how it played out last night in New Hampshire.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. TIM SCOTT (R-SC): We need a president who will close our southern border today. We need Donald Trump.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Donald Trump!
 
SCOTT: We need a president.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Show the (INAUDIBLE)!
 
SCOTT: We need a president -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, my God.
 
SCOTT: Who will unite our country. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: OK. So, what is that? I just heard the voice in the background was like, oh, my God, I don't know what that meant. But anyway, what does that say? You know, this messaging to New Hampshire voters just days ahead of their vote?
 
CUPP: Well, that's significant, and it's not. So, obviously, it's a snub, they're from the same state. Nikki Haley appointed Tim Scott. He kind of owes his Senate career to her in some sense. And they were certainly rivals in the primary. But on the other hand, I expect them all to end up endorsing Donald Trump. People who are running against him and, and really, you know, kind of everyone in the Republican landscape, I think, they are going to be very, very few holdouts because they all want to be where the center of power is.
 
And either they're running for V.P. or a Cabinet position, or they just don't want to be on his bad side if he wins.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, but it now, I mean, and when we're talking about the Haley-Tim Scott dynamic, I mean, it's not just any Republicans, but, you know, she helped in his ascension to the Senate. So, so much for any kind of allegiance, and they're both from South Carolina.
 
CUPP: Right. Right.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: To me, that's a surprise. To you now?
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CUPP: Right. I mean, but she -- 
 
No, no. She'll need -- going into New Hampshire, she needs everything. Right?
 
And no one's been able to do one important thing, which is pierce Trump's inevitability.
 <br>[12:25:04]
 
You know, it didn't happen in Iowa. You know Ron DeSantis didn't finish as well as he thought he would. 
 
One important thing, which is pierce Trump's inevitability. You know, it didn't happen in Iowa. You know, Ron DeSantis didn't finish as well as he thought he would. And if it doesn't happen in New Hampshire, then, there is really no evidence, this proof of concept that someone can defeat Donald Trump in a primary.
 
There is no evidence that that's true yet. We'll have to see if Nikki Haley can make the case in New Hampshire. But everything from endorsements to, you know, barnstorming the state, everything could help.
 
WHITFIELD: Nikki Haley did respond. She was asked, you know about Scott's endorsement this morning. And this is what she had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HALEY: South Carolina is a blood sport. And I have dealt with the old guard and the fellas for a long time. Everybody has a decision to make. And they have to live with their decision. He'll have to live with his.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: So, of course, New Hampshire, you know, voters are assessing everything from that snub to how she is handling herself. They're evaluating all kinds of things on the debate stage, or at a town hall.
 
What are they assessing right now in a Nikki Haley? The fact that she used to be part of the Trump Cabinet, and now she is an opponent, somebody she appointed is now no longer endorsing her. How are they to assess her posture?
 
CUPP: Listen, New Hampshire voters. I know them real well, I'm from Massachusetts and went to school right on the border. Got family up there. They are real independent, and they -- and they are late. They like to wait, they want to meet everyone. And they don't like to be told how to vote or who to vote for.
 
So, the very open minded to someone like Nikki, which works in her favor. But they'll also have a lot of questions about who she is and what she stands for.
 
And the real policy driven. There is a lot of pockets in New Hampshire that are Trump country. I was just up there. So, a lot of Trump signs. But there are other pockets that are very policy minded and they want answers to policy questions and Nikki Haley going from town to town and diner to diner and sitting down and answering real questions about the economy, foreign policy, immigration. that's going to go a long way there.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. S.E. Cupp. We'll leave it there. Thanks so much. Good to see you.
 
CUPP: Sure.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So, as voters head to the polls in the Granite State, who has the momentum? The "2024 NEW HAMPSHIRE PRIMARY" live coverage starts this Tuesday. 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time right here on CNN.
 
All right. Still to come, more details involving Donald Trump's Georgia election subversion case? Could the D.A. be disqualified over an alleged romance?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:31:48] WHITFIELD: A Fulton County Commissioner is launching an inquiry into allegations at District Attorney Fani Willis misused county funds in the case against former President Donald Trump. Willis is accused of accepting gifts and other personal benefits from Nathan Wade, the lead prosecutor she hired for the Trump case and is allegedly having an affair with. The inquiry was launched just hours after credit card statements revealed -- were revealed in a divorce proceeding involving Nathan Wade and his ex-wife, estranged wife, allegedly showing Wade paid for at least two out of state trips with Willis. Jessica Schneider has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FANI WILLIS, FULTON COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: I ain't done you all.
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There is now a full on battle between Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis and the wife of Willis's top prosecutor in the Georgia election case against Trump. The back and forth in the divorce proceedings is threatening to shake up the case.
 
WILLIS: The black man I chose has been a judge more than 10 years.
 
SCHNEIDER (voice-over): Fani Willis is facing allegation she had an affair with Nathan Wade something she has not addressed. Instead she has defended naming him at special prosecutor in November 2021, one day after he filed for divorce from his wife.
 
WILLIS: Isn't that some will never see a black man is qualified no matter his achievements.
 
SCHNEIDER (voice-over): Now there is a swirl of tension to try to get to the bottom of this alleged affair. New court filings from Wade's wife show Nathan Wade bought tickets for Willis to accompany him on at least two out of state trips. Copies of credit card statements show Wade purchased airline tickets for himself and Willis including for trips to Miami in October 2022 and San Francisco in April 2023. Joycelyn Wade saying in the filing that her attorneys want to depose Willis in the divorce proceedings to determine details surrounding her romantic affair with Nathan Wade, as there appears to be no reasonable explanation for their travels apart from a romantic relationship.
 
Willis is trying to stop the questioning saying it's being used to harass and damage her professional reputation and is obstructing and interfering with an ongoing criminal prosecution. This exploded in the public eye earlier this month when one of the defendants in the Georgia election subversion case, Mike Roman, a former Trump campaign official moved to disqualify Willis, alleging she had an improper relationship with Wade. Roman alleges Wade was paid more than others in Willis's office, and used money he billed for his work so far adding up to more than $650,000 to take Willis on romantic and lavish vacations. Roman has not provided any public proof for the accusations. But Trump's lawyer says this is another reason the case should be tossed.
 
ALINA HABBA, TRUMP ATTORNEY: This case is tainted from the start. Nevermind all the other things that we're seeing come out that show absolute corruption. It's all planned. It's election interference.
 
SCHNEIDER (voice-over): The judge overseeing the Georgia election case has now set a February 15th hearing to consider whether Willis and Wade should be disqualified from the case. Willis hence defended her prosecution team and said they have all been paid the same.
 
WILLIS: I appointed three special counsel, this is my right to do, paid them all the same hourly rate. They only attack one.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[12:35:03]
 
WHITFIELD: Jessica Schneider, thank you so much for that reporting.
 
Straight ahead, another blast of arctic air is affecting millions across the U.S closing schools and hampering travel. We'll bring you the latest forecast, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: At least 70 people are dead in 13 states after back to back winter storms and dangerous temperatures are expected to continue throughout the weekend. Near whiteout conditions covered parts of Indiana making travel very difficult there. And streets in Michigan City are covered with several inches of snow.
 
Meanwhile in snowbound Buffalo, the Bills put out the call for more shovelers this morning and claim that they are making progress clearing out Highmark Stadium ahead of Sunday's Divisional Playoff game with the Kansas City Chiefs. For the latest on all this let's go to Elisa Raffa in the CNN Weather Center. Elisa, what can you tell us?
 <br>[12:40:12]
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Fred, I'm still shaking off the cold and snow from my trip to Buffalo. The lake effect snow showers they're starting to ease up. But that arctic air is plunging south and ascending temperatures below zero for a lot of us again. I mean temperatures today will barely break freezing in a lot of spots. And when you look at the overnight temperatures again tonight we're at five degrees below zero in Chicago. Four below in Omaha. Temperatures in the single digits from Nashville, even Atlanta only getting down into the teens overnight tonight.
 
And when you look at the high temperatures tomorrow, there's still a decent chunk of us that will be below freezing with highs in the 20s from Chicago to Omaha only 31 in St. Louis still 10 degrees below average, a chilly 42 degrees in Atlanta. And as you look at the next four days, we start to see the uphill climb where we've got temperatures getting closer to average by Monday and Tuesday and really starting to see the other side of this cold snap where you've got temperatures way below average today by about 20 degrees, still chilly about 10 degrees below average tomorrow.
 
But then as we look towards Monday a little bit closer to average. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, we start to see more of those oranges pumping in, right? Temperatures tend to 20 degrees above average by Wednesday and Thursday. But temperatures at 70 degrees from Charlotte down to Atlanta, so really thawing out and starting to feel quite warm.
 
Then when you look at this seven-day for Atlanta, you've got temperatures barely breaking freezing on Saturday, and then already by the end of the week, by Thursday, we're looking at temperatures up at 70 degrees with some showers and thunderstorms. That's the storm that's going to fuel and bring in all of that warmer air.
 
And even for a place like Chicago that's not going to hit 70 degrees, you're also still looking at a pretty big warm up. Your daytime highs will climb into the 40s after being only in the teens on Saturday. Then look at those overnight lows that are subzero, those will warm a good 30, 40 degrees above freezing by the end of the week.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Elisa Raffa, thank you so much. I think everybody is going to appreciate that little bit of a warm up even if it's just by a few degrees.
 
All right, health scares in the British Royal Family forcing two of the most senior Royals out of the public eye. We'll discuss it with a royal historian next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:46:45]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, this week, double health matters in Britain's Royal family are at the center of concern and curiosity. It's sidelining the family's most popular figures. Kate, the Princess of Wales, remains hospitalized following abdominal surgery. And King Charles will soon begin treatment for an enlarged prostate.
 
Buckingham Palace says the King will have a corrective procedure at the hospital and that his condition is benign. Earlier in the week, news of the King's upcoming treatment came just 90-minutes after the Princess of Wales surgery was revealed. Kensington Palace announced Catherine will spend two weeks in the hospital then continue to recover at home for months. A royal source tells CNN her condition was noncancerous.
 
CNN royal historian, Kate Williams, joining me now from London. Kate, great to see you. I mean these health scares really came as a shock. I mean, everyone wishes them well, of course. But let's start with Kate's situation. That means both she and Prince William have canceled all their public engagements through Easter. Royal officials are being both transparent and still very secretive. How long, you know, can it keep people in the dark, so to speak, about Kate's condition and what precipitated her surgery?
 
KATE WILLIAMS, CNN ROYAL HISTORIAN: Yes, you're exactly right, Fred. We had a situation just this week where we had these two shock announcements as you say, 90 minutes between them. First, we were told that Kate was already in hospital had had abdominal surgery was recovering well, and she will remain in the hospital for two weeks. And we wouldn't see her until I think well after Easter so not until perhaps the end of April. And the Prince William would also be canceling engagements for at least January.
 
And then just an hour and a half later, we were told that the King next week would be going into hospital for a minor procedure, an enlarged prostate. And he would be probably out of action for three weeks. We're expecting three four weeks, but I'm sure he'll be doing his constitutional duties with the Prime Minister on Zoom.
 
So that means that we have this already slimmed down royal family. And within that two major Royals, Kate and the King, are in hospitalized and recovering during January. William is supporting Kate. So the only senior role really that we have is Queen Camilla, but she'll be mainly supporting Charles as well. So really, we are not going to see many Royal engagements at all during January and February. And we don't expect to see Kate until well into April.
 
That means that some of their royal tours, like the tour to Rome will not go ahead. But the King has a big tour in Canada in May. And that I think he'll be fine for that. But Kate is obviously a much more serious operation. We don't know what it is. We've been told as you say that it's not cancerous. But I don't expect that we will be told what it is. We will be told that she's recovering.
 
I mean, possibly in a year or so she might do an event with a charity connected to sufferers of the same condition and talk a little there. But I don't expect that we will hear about it. And of course it's her right to keep it secret and we do wish her all the best.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, of course. So um, we did see pictures. You mentioned Prince William. We saw him in the driver's seat right there, you know, going to visit Kate in the hospital. What's your understanding of how he's doing both his wife, his dad facing these health issues?
 <br>[12:50:03]
 
WILLIAMS: Well, it's very difficult. It seems to be as if it was quite something of a surprise because it was called planned surgery. But at the same time, all the engagements were immediately canceled and Williams as well. And he has two jobs to do. He has to support Kate. He also has to do his duties that are non-outward facing. There is paperwork to be done. And also he has work at home. He has to support the children.
 
This is a long time by which Kate prides itself on being a hands on mother will not be at home with the children. She'll be recovering. She won't be able to run around after three small children. So things are really a different balance at home for William at Windsor. And he's really I think, determined to try and keep things as normal for the children as they can, as we know any family going through surgery. It's very hard. It's very disruptive for the children. Children find it very difficult. And he's determined to keep it very straightforward for them.
 
But certainly, you know, we think just a few years ago, Fred, of these big balcony waves, huge royal family, it's getting smaller and smaller. And these health scares really show us how actually smaller the royal family now is.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. And how vulnerable they are just like everybody else when it can, you know, concerns, health matters and things that just come up, seemingly sometimes out of nowhere. So now to King Charles, Buckingham Palace says, you know, he wants to encourage other men his age to pay attention to prostate health. He's 75 years old.
 
What does this say about the way the King is handling this or now leaving the monarchy with this kind of level of transparency into his health?
 
WILLIAMS: Yes, exactly, Fred. This is a great level of transparency. We wouldn't expect to have seen this under the Queen, we were told perhaps she was popping in for tests, or there was a small cold. The King said very clearly he wants to talk about this issue. And people might -- some men might find this an embarrassing issue that he wants to speak out so that men do get checked and get tested. It is a condition that affects up to about 50 percent of men by the age of 60, so it's very common, but I think a lot of people don't want to talk about it.
 
And I think the King also wants to make it very clear that it was a minor condition. He's not suffering from anything long term, who back on his feet very, very shortly. It's something that he's going to get treated possibly in Scotland where he is now and be, you know, recovering very quickly. So I think they know about all of the -- in the royal family that people do you worry. And they worry when the King is 75 that it might be something more serious.
 
I think he wants to make it clear that, you know, I'll be fine guys, just give me until mid-Feb.
 
WHITFIELD: We like the optimism. But then I do wonder, Kate, I mean, you know, recent history at Buckingham Palace or Kensington Palace you pick, you know, shows that things don't stay private for too long. I know you mentioned, Kate, maybe in a year she's doing something, some kind of outreach she wants to reveal. But how long really do you think before the full story is at least conveyed on both Kate and the King's, you know, health journeys before that is revealed?
 
WILLIAMS: Yes, good point. It's very hard to keep anything secret. All kinds of, you know, royal family information has been told to us before. Now I've actually had abdominal surgery in the same hospital that Kate is now in it, just near Baker Street. It's very quiet, very private. So I never saw a single other patient there. But of course, there are lots of -- it's a big hospital and people were going out. There are other patients going to be there. There are lots of staff, but they will keep it secret.
 
But of course it's very difficult with records. The Royals normally go to the Edge of the Seventh Hospital quite often. They will also be to this hospital too. But the Edge of the Seventh Hospital was recently like quite a few institutions in London, hacked by some hackers who threaten to sell the information. So these kinds, it's a very different cyberspace now. I do think that the King will probably tell us quite a bit about his conditions in recovery next week after he comes out of hospital.
 
And certainly I think Kate and Kensington Palace have said very clearly, they want to keep the matter private. But these are the days in which everyone wants to talk about the royal family. Everyone wants to find out. There's all kinds of speculation going on social media, so it is going to be difficult for them to keep this privacy.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Kate Williams, great to see you. Thanks so much.
 
WILLIAMS: Good to see you.
 <br>[12:54:14]
 
WHITFIELD: We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right welcome back at the NFL playoffs will kick off into high gear today as a pair of underdogs attempt to knock off the top teams in their divisions. CNN's Andy Scholes has more.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Well, Fredricka, I just love this weekend. You got two big games today, two more tomorrow. And in the first game you got the top seed in the AFC, the Baltimore Ravens hosting the surprising Houston Texans and this is just an awesome quarterback matchup. Got the favorite to win the MVP in Lamar Jackson, he's trying to put his playoff woes behind him and get to his first AFC Championship game.
 
Then you've got one of the best rookie quarterbacks in NFL history CJ Stroud for the Texans. Stroud is already the youngest QB to ever win a playoff game at 22 years old. Could he continue his amazing play today and get the Texans to their first ever conference championship game? Well, Texans head coach, DeMeco Ryans, is confident his quarterback will continue to rise to the occasion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEMECO RYANS, HOUSTON TEXANS HEAD COACH: CJ is the reason why we're in this position. He's special, special young man, special player continues to shine no matter how big the moment is. Like our whole team is leaning on him. And when you have a young player who can shoulder the load of your team, and the way the team is that behind him, the confidence that he gives our entire team. It's so cool to watch.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: The Ravens nine and a half point favorite in that one, the 49ers also nine and a half point favorites over the Packers and Green Bay still riding high after beating the Cowboys. Now quarterback Jordan Love looking to pull off his second straight, huge upset. Now the 49ers and Packers have one of the best playoff rivalries in sports. This is their record 10th meeting in the postseason. San Fran has a five and four record in those games, including winning the last four in a row. But Love says despite his team's lack of playoff experience, they're confident bunch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[13:00:29]
 
JORDAN LOVE, GREEN BAY PACKERS QUARTERBACK: Obviously, yeah, experience is huge in these situations. But no, I think we're just -- we're confident on our whole team and what we got. And now it just comes down to execution, making the most of the plays we have and I think that's what we're doing. It's another test. But, you know, that's what we're doing it for to be able to, you know, have these challenges and step up these big time moments.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: And a lot of people are jealous at the Packers, Fredricka, you know, it went from Brett Favre to Aaron Rodgers to now Jordan Love. So since 1992, they've had a good to great quarterback under center. You know, meanwhile, some teams, they haven't even had one in that 30-year span.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, a plus. Andy Scholes got to love his name, very cute.
 
All right, thanks so much, Andy Scholes. Appreciate it.