Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Navalny's Widow: Authorities Hiding Cause of Death; Al-Maliki: PA is the Legitimate Authority to Govern Gaza; Soldiers Posting Videos to Document War with Gaza; Venezuela's Opposition Accuses Maduro Government of "Repressive Escalation"; Capital One Agrees to Buy Discover in $35B Deal. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired February 20, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well new video of Alexei Navalny's mother, making a direct appeal to Vladimir Putin. Even as Russian 
 
 authorities name her other son Oleg, as a wanted man. Its 5 pm in Moscow, it is 6 pm here in Abu Dhabi. I'm Becky Anderson. You are watching "Connect 
 
 the World".
 
Also happening this hour a live look at Rafah in Gaza as Israel forcibly rejects the U.N.'s allegations that soldiers have raped and killed 
 
 Palestinian women and girls. And WikiLeaks Founder Julian Assange making a last ditch appeal to avoid prosecution in the United States, you're looking 
 
 at new pictures of his supporters outside.
 
And the markets in New York will open in about 30 minutes from now the beginning of the trading week. Of course the markets closed yesterday after 
 
 a long President's Day weekend in the United States but in a bit of a holding pattern ahead of Wednesday. That is when the Fed releases the 
 
 minutes from its January meeting.
 
And AI Chipmaker NVIDIA earnings come out after the bell. Eyes on that bottom of the hour, we will get you the opening. Well Alexei Navalny's 
 
 mother is pleading with Russian President Vladimir Putin to immediately hand over her son's body. The 47 year old Kremlin Opposition Leader died on 
 
 Friday and a short time ago his mother released a video directly asking Mr. Putin to let her see her son and bury him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LUDMILA IVANOVNA NAVALNAYA, ALEXEI NAVALNY'S MOTHER: Behind me as the IK-3 Polar Wolf colony where my son Alexei Navalny died on February 16th. I 
 
 haven't been able to see him for five days. They won't give me his body. They don't even tell me where he is.
 
I'm addressing you Vladimir Putin. The solution to the issue depends only on you. Let me finally see my son. I demand that Alexei's body be 
 
 immediately handed over so that I can bury him humanely.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Russia will not release Alexei Navalny's body to his family for another two weeks, according to a spokesperson for the Kremlin 
 
 Opposition Leader. In a message on X Navalny's spokesperson says Russian officials are keeping his body to "conduct some sort of chemical 
 
 examination" for more on this.
 
Let's bring in CNN's Matthew Chance who is in Moscow, what more do we know about why it is that Russia is holding Navalny's body, Matthew?
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, I mean, I think officially, the Russians are saying that the post mortem work has to 
 
 be done to try and really find out exactly what was the cause of death with Alexei Navalny, this 47 year old opposition figure dying suddenly on Friday 
 
 of last week.
 
They have to do a post mortem, they have to do various tests and they have to sort of release an official report about what exactly happened. And 
 
 that's all in accordance we're told with Russian regulations and Russian law. But the supporters of Alexei Navalny, his opposition campaign, his 
 
 family for good reason, deeply suspicious.
 
And they've accused the Russian authorities the Kremlin of hiding Navalny's body as a way of hiding the real reason for his death. I mean, you have to 
 
 remember that the background to this is that several years ago, Alexei Navalny was poisoned with a Novichok nerve agent, which was blamed on 
 
 Russia for that poisoning.
 
He made a recovery thanks to, you know, some decisive action taken by the pilot of the aeroplane where the symptoms first started to appear. And so 
 
 obviously, there's a great deal of concern amongst Navalny's supporters that the same sort of thing could have been happening again.
 
In fact, Yulia Navalnaya, Alexei Navalny's wife has made that direct allegation that this could have been Novichok again, that caused the death 
 
 of her husband. The Kremlin for their parts has categorically denied that. And they've said they've got nothing to do with, you know, what happened to 
 
 Alexei Navalny, but obviously, there are those in Russia and beyond that don't necessarily believe them.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
ANDERSON: He had a brother. His name is Oleg. He is now a wanted man in Russia. What do we know about Navalny's brother?
 
CHANCE: Quite a bit because Alexei Navalny has also been in the crosshairs of Russian prosecutors for some years. He's already served prison time for 
 
 an embezzlement case several years ago, in which he was a businessman, with his brother in a business venture. That was -- said to be sort of 
 
 fraudulent, that Navalny team and Alexei Navalny in particular has always said these were politically motivated charges.
 
And I think what we do know, is that what the suspicion is, rather, is that Navalny's family it's not just Navalny himself, Alexei Navalny himself 
 
 who's been targeted by the authorities, but it's the family as well, you know, they have, you know, targeted Alexei Navalny over the years, and 
 
 they're continuing to do so now.
 
I -- could interpret it as a warning to his widow, that you know, look, Alexei Navalny is dead. But you know, it doesn't mean that we're not going 
 
 to go after other members of -- family as well. Should this opposition persist?
 
ANDERSON: Matthew Chance is in Moscow. Matthew, thank you. And a quick reminder more about the circumstances, surrounding Alexei Navalny's death, 
 
 efforts to retrieve his body from Russia and the latest world reaction to his passing on CNN's digital platforms.
 
A Former Policy Adviser at the U.S. State Department has also written this opinion piece about how Navalny's death may fuel a new resistance movement 
 
 inside Russia. Well, American Reporter Evan Gershkovich says lost a court appeal in Moscow. The Moscow City Court upheld an extension to his time in 
 
 detention which will keep the Wall Street Journal Reporter behind bars until at least March the 30th.
 
He's been held in Russia's notorious Lefortovo prison since last March when he was arrested on a reporting trip. He is accused of trying to obtain 
 
 state secrets if convicted. He could face up to 20 years in prison. The U.S. citizen being detained in Russia on charges of treason Russia's 
 
 Federal Security Service arrested the woman who holds dual U.S. and Russian citizenship.
 
FSB officials claimed that she was raising funds to help Ukraine. They say they are continuing to investigate the case and to carry out searches. CNN 
 
 has reached out to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow and we are waiting for comment. On the ground in Ukraine just days after withdrawing from the 
 
 Eastern City of Avdiivka, Kyiv says it has repelled around a Russian attacks and the Zaporizhzhia region.
 
Ukraine's military says it was a difficult night as they were attacked by two Russian missiles and 23 drones. All of those drones were shot down. 
 
 CNN's Nick Paton Walsh gives us a closer look at what is going on from Kherson.
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: -- announcing their voluntary withdrawal from Avdiivka on Saturday. The bad 
 
 news frankly appears to be continuing for Ukraine's armed forces trying to project a message both of strength in repelling Russian assaults but also 
 
 convey to the outside world how serious the challenges they're facing on the frontline really are.
 
Most notably a lot of the statements from Ukrainian defense officials refer to Zaporizhzhia region where the counter offensive tried to get going in 
 
 the summer. One of the key places it took Robotyne a tiny village frankly seems to be now under the subject of a series of Russian assaults over the 
 
 past two nights, according to statements we're hearing from Ukrainian officials.
 
Now they say they're repelling those and that the Russians are taking casualties as they attempt it. But there appears to be multiple prongs to 
 
 that assault as well. And along the front line, notably around up Avdiivka as well. Still, there appears to be suggestions that Ukraine is seeing 
 
 Russia on its front foot, sending significant numbers of troops to try and make a breakthrough.
 
To the north in Kupiansk where President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited troops just yesterday. There appears to be pressure around Avdiivka as I said, and 
 
 around Bakhmut the last key city that Russia took in May of last year suggestions of renewed Russian pressure there too.
 
So a complex task for Ukraine here to hold off Russian forces who clearly have significant ammunition and reserves in play and indeed have their 
 
 troops freed up from the brutal and bloody siege of Avdiivka where President Zelenskyy suggested Russia last seven troops to everyone.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Ukrainian that died to be able to use the Avdiivka forces elsewhere is a definite problem for Kyiv who have to simultaneously hold them off keep 
 
 morale high in the country yet also suggest the seriousness of the challenge they face to their Western allies. There are two weeks now before 
 
 U.S. Congress even comes back to even think about -- the $60 billion aid package that Ukraine urgently needed back at the end of last year.
 
And in those two weeks a lot can certainly change along Ukraine's front lines where we are seeing Russia visible frankly here in this town Kherson 
 
 with a sound of Russian artillery hitting targets is almost constant, a Russia with a lot of ammunition, a lot of troops it's able to devote the 
 
 fight and a huge tolerance for pain in achieving its factories. Nick Paton Walsh CNN, Kherson, Southern Ukraine.
 
ANDERSON: Well as the fighting intensifies on the front lines, there's growing pressure on the United States to provide Ukraine with more funding. 
 
 Kyiv supplies of weapons and ammunition are running low. President Biden has been tearing to Republicans for failing to pass an aid bill calling it 
 
 a quote, big mistake.
 
Well, House Speaker Mike Johnson reportedly told Republicans during a closed door meeting last week, there is no rush to address the issue. Well 
 
 amid allegations of Israeli forces killing imprisoning and raping Palestinian women and girls. The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights is 
 
 calling for an independent investigation.
 
Israel for its part forcibly rejects those allegations saying they are motivated by hatred for Israel. Meantime, the U.S. is now calling for a 
 
 temporary ceasefire in Israel's war against a massive warning against a ground invasion in Gaza's Southern City of Rafah knows doing this as part 
 
 of the proposed draft resolution to the U.N. Security Council, after saying that it would veto an Algerian draft which is expected to be voted on, in 
 
 the coming hours.
 
It's worth noting that the U.S. draft falls short of what other members are calling for. International Diplomatic Editor, Nic Robertson is live in Tel 
 
 Aviv. Two questions to you if we've got the time so we can keep these answers relatively brief. What do we know about these allegations leveled 
 
 at Israel, which the U.N. Commission for Human Rights is calling for an investigation over, Nic?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Well, the allegations that include killings, there are allegations that include at least two 
 
 counts of rape. There are allegations of mistreatment, there are allegations that a group of Palestinian women rounded up by IDF forces 
 
 inside Gaza were kept in a cage without food and water in the cold.
 
There are many allegations that are being leveled here by these U.N. experts and calling for this investigation. And it is not being well 
 
 received. Hear the IDF is saying that their troops fight to international human -- the standards of international humanitarian law that this is not 
 
 what they do.
 
As you said they described these as despicable allegations. And it sticks particularly with many Israelis who really feel that the U.N. didn't take 
 
 them seriously when they said that Hamas on October 7th and afterwards had raped and sexually abused Israeli women and girls, including IDF soldiers 
 
 who were captured by Hamas on October 7th.
 
So this I think gives you some understanding of the strength of pushback at the moment. But the allegations coming from the U.N. are not just from one 
 
 person, they're coming from multiple people who are pressuring for greater scrutiny. The Israeli the government here says look, if there are specific 
 
 accusations and allegations, none of which had been handed over so far, then they will of course investigate, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you Nic, thank you. Well, Saudi Arabia says the Palestinian Authority is quote, quite capable of taking control of all 
 
 Palestinian territory once the war in Gaza ends. This stands contrary to the position of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has maintained 
 
 that neither am as nor the Palestinian Authority should govern the besieged enclave.
 
Well, yesterday I spoke to Riyad al-Maliki the Palestinian authorities, Foreign Minister and I asked him if the PA was fit to lead and what that 
 
 leadership should look like.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIYAD AL-MALIKI, PALESTINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: We are talking about you know, that Gaza and the West Bank is one tutorial unit then obviously, such 
 
 Palestinian Authority and the government that it represents should, you know, extend its mandate into Gaza, and operates in Gaza the way that 
 
 really operates in the -- back.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
There is right now a clear understanding among all countries with the exception of Israel, of course, that the personal authority is the only 
 
 legitimate authority that can exercise such functions in the occupied Palestinian territory. The only addition to this kind of vision is that, we 
 
 should really move from the current government that really operates in the West Bank into a new government of technocrats that will exert its mandate, 
 
 both in the West Bank and also in Gaza.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Riyad al-Maliki keeps speaking to me earlier. Well, coming up, this could be the last chance for Julian Assange to stop his extradition to 
 
 the United States through the British court. So why isn't he at his hearing today? That story is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: You're with "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson 18 minutes past 6 in the UAE. This is from your -- broadcasting hub, Julian Assange 
 
 making a last ditch attempt to avoid prosecution in the United States. Over the next two days, a London court will decide whether or not to allow the 
 
 WikiLeaks Founder to appeal a U.K. extradition order.
 
The U.S. wants him to face espionage charges for what was a massive classified documents leak back in 2010. Assange himself did not appear in 
 
 court today but his supporters turned out in force. Max Foster joins me from London, Max?
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, they didn't get a chance to see him. He couldn't turn up. He was too unwell. We're told this is something 
 
 we've heard throughout this process that he has mental health concerns and there's a risk that he could commit suicide if this extradition goes ahead, 
 
 one of the elements playing into the judges thoughts today.
 
So this does go back to that big dump of classified documents back in 2010, 2011. The U.S. is trying to get him extradited to the U.S. to face trial, 
 
 years of challenges to that. So it's gone to the High Court, it's gone to the Supreme Court. The Home Secretary Priti Patel at the time, signed off 
 
 on it.
 
What we've got here is a two day hearing, looking into whether that was legal the sign off from Priti Patel. So Julian Assange suggesting that this 
 
 is politically motivated, he was just a journalist doing his job. This is a politically motivated move. Now if he has some success there then there 
 
 will be more hearings, you could arguably take it to the European Court of Human Rights.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
But if the judges over the next two days, throw this case out, then the formal extradition process does begin. And he could find himself in America 
 
 in a matter of weeks.
 
ANDERSON: Max Foster on the story. Thank you, Max. Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now and 
 
 police in Spain on investigating the disappearance of an American woman who has been missing for more than two weeks now.
 
The alarm was raised when the 40 year old Florida woman failed to turn up to meet a friend. The lenses of two security cameras at her apartment 
 
 building were painted over around the time that she went missing. Taiwan says a Chinese Coast Guard vessel "intruded" Taiwan controlled waters 
 
 around Kinmen islands earlier today, the ship sailed away after an hour inside the waterway.
 
This comes a day after China said that it would launch regular patrols following an incident in which two Chinese fishermen died in the area, 
 
 causing a flare up of tensions. Or Japan is setting records when it comes to the country's temperatures. Over 215 monthly records were either tied or 
 
 broken all over Japan on Monday, colder temperatures moving in across much of Asia including China, North Korea and South Korea.
 
The northern parts of those countries could see snowfall as good Northern Japan. Well, Israeli soldiers using social media to show parts of what's 
 
 happening in the war with Gaza. Some of the videos posted using what some soldiers consider humor to feed the devastating situation on the internet. 
 
 CNN Jerusalem Correspondent Jeremy Diamond has more on that story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is a how to video on how to blow up a mosque in Gaza. Format is internet fluent the 
 
 content is very real, filmed, edited and posted on Instagram by an Israeli soldier. It's one of dozens reviewed by CNN.
 
Many in 2024, social media is everyday life. Israeli soldiers are no different. Except they're fighting Israel's largest and most brutal war in 
 
 decades. In video, after video, soldiers document the destruction of Gaza and rejoice, the film that nations to use as wedding invitations. Among 
 
 them are would be comedians whose video satirizing the war showed the devastation in Gaza.
 
AVNER GVARYAHU, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF BREAKING THE SILENCE: Soldiers have always documented themselves. It could be in journals, it could be with, 
 
 you know, taking pictures.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Avner Gvaryahu, who served in the IDF during the Second Intifada. He leads the group breaking the silence which encourages 
 
 soldiers to speak out about the realities of occupation.
 
GVARYAHU: Even if we do find, you know the why we went to this war, important significance and necessity, we have to ask ourselves how we're 
 
 conducting ourselves in wartime?
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): The videos often end up on the social media channels of right wing political commentators, they boast to the Israeli public of 
 
 the tactics used to defend them. The IDF told CNN that it has acted and continues to act to identify unusual cases that deviate from what is 
 
 expected of IDF soldiers.
 
Those cases will be arbitrated, and significant command measures will be taken against the soldiers involved. Images from Gaza of Israel's war 
 
 injured are rare on Israeli television, but they're there on TikTok.
 
ERAN HALPERIN, PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY AT HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF JERUSALEM: The overarching theme is that we've been here we're going to win. We're 
 
 powerful enough. And we think that what these soldiers are doing well, these clips that we see on social media is part of an attempt to regain a 
 
 sense of agency, regain sense of power regain the sense of positive self- image the way we talk about ourselves before October 7.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): At times, they openly defy their military's message about protecting civilians
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
And feeling themselves destroying civilian shops Israel is under increasing scrutiny over the war in Gaza. These videos may well be adding fuel to that 
 
 criticism. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Jeremy Diamond reporting for you. Well, meantime, U.S. and UK airstrikes appear to have slowed Houthi attacks on commercial shipping in 
 
 the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden. The Yemeni rebel groups say they targeted two American vessels in the Gulf on Monday, causing accurate and direct 
 
 casualties. Rebels say the attack was in support of the Palestinian people and in response to what they called American British aggression against 
 
 Yemen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YAHYA SAREA, HOUTHI MILITARY SPOKESPERSON: The ship was severely damaged leading to its complete halt. Due to the significant damage suffered by the 
 
 ship, it is now at risk of sinking in the Gulf of Aden. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, a group says they also targeted a British ship. UK officials say a vessel sustained quote, superficial damage after being 
 
 attacked by a drone in the Red Sea. And in Lebanon, two Israeli airstrikes hit targets in the southern town of al-Ghazieh on Monday. The IDF says it 
 
 struck Hezbollah weapons depots at least 14 people were wounded according to the Lebanese state news agency.
 
You can see the location of the strikes on your screen there; it's less than 50 kilometers south of the capital of Beirut. This is the furthest 
 
 Israeli strike inside Lebanon since October the seventh. Well, we are just a couple of minutes away from the start of our holiday shortened week on 
 
 "Wall Street" what will investors make of a mega merger that could transform America's payments industry. We'll take you live to the New York 
 
 Stock Exchange for the opening bell coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: First day of trading in what is a slightly shortened week. United States markets there closed Monday of course with President Davis (ph) CEO 
 
 of PhD International ringing us in today. Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, where it is just after 6.30 in the evening. You're watching 
 
 "Connect the World" from our Gulf hub here in Abu Dhabi.
 
We'll call it the post pandemic surge. Dubai International Airport already the world's busiest for international travel says it welcomed almost 87 
 
 million passengers last year. And that's not even a record, but the Middle East hub says early projections show traffic this year could reach 88.8 
 
 million that's just shy of 28 teens all-time high of more than 89 million passengers.
 
It's important to note the number of passengers passing through Dubai's terminal is seen as a barometer for the aviation industry worldwide. And 
 
 Bitcoin back with a $1 trillion bang, the value of the world's most popular crypto currency has more than tripled to $52,000 each since November 2022. 
 
 That's thanks in part to the launch of some funds that make it easier for average investors to put money into crypto. 
 
Bitcoin remains far from the all-time high of 69,000 that it reached back in November 21. CNN has spoken to some crypto experts who expect it to keep 
 
 climbing this year, perhaps even surpassing that high. Checking oil prices this morning for you, both measures Brent Crude and WTI Crude, fairly flat 
 
 right now where it is that investors are concerned about flagging global demand.
 
Well, Venezuela of course one of those major oil producers whose economy is largely dependent on the commodity. Russia's Foreign Minister is on a 
 
 diplomatic tool through Latin America this week and is in Venezuela today. Sergey Lavrov is expected to hold talks with President Nicolas Maduro and 
 
 his counterpart Venezuelan Foreign Minister. 
 
The visit comes amid a growing rift between Venezuela and the United States. Well, at the same time, Russia's influence with the Venezuelan 
 
 government has also been growing. Stefano Pozzebon joins us now live from Bogota, Colombia, and you've been monitoring this story. Just remind us why 
 
 it is that Lavrov would make this trip and what that relationship looks like?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Yes, Becky, well, Lavrov is in Latin America, and a week where Latin America finds itself at the center of the diplomatic 
 
 world, pretty much just like Europe was last week because he's in Caracas today. But very crucially, he's going to Rio de Janeiro tomorrow to 
 
 participate in a meeting of G20 foreign ministers. And he will meet the Secretary of State Antony Blinken in that meeting; will be the first time 
 
 that the two foreign ministers from Russia and the U.S. will meet each other since the death of Alexei Navalny.
 
And today in Caracas, Lavrov will hold a press conference in responding to questions and will be interesting to see if he's asked any comment about 
 
 their death, we'll bring it back to you. Looking at the larger picture, it's interesting that he's in Caracas, because like you said, it comes at a 
 
 moment of increased tension and confrontation between Washington and Caracas. 
 
What happened last year is that the two countries Venezuela and the United States found a way to speak with each other to understand each other mainly 
 
 because, well, Venezuela has suffered from oil sanctions. So it's pretty much the same sanctions that Russia is suffering due to the war in Ukraine. 
 
 And so, Russia and Venezuela are actually competing for the same market of sanctioned oil black market for oil crude. 
 
And so, when the U.S. announced that they were lifting sanctions on to Venezuela, it opened the possibility of return to normal relationships 
 
 between Caracas and Washington, which are mostly based around oil. Caracas exports crude to the United States and the United States refined them and 
 
 then exported them around the world.
 
Now, in the last few weeks, Maduro has increased the crackdown on opposition, he has barred the opposition candidates. He has put at least 19 
 
 people to jail saying that they were involved in a conspiracy to murder him without presenting any truth, any proof. And this is increasing the tension 
 
 between Washington and Caracas. And just today well, Russia is in town to show that they are ready to shoulder the support for their Latin American 
 
 ally, Venezuela, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Understood, Stefano, thank you. Right, Champions League action continues today as last year's beaten finalists Inter Milan take to the 
 
 pitch hoping to go one better this year. That is coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
ANDERSON: The U.S. credit card landscape could be in for a shakeup. That's because two of America's biggest financial companies are planning to tie 
 
 the knot. U.S. lender Capital One Bank by billionaire investor Warren Buffett plans to buy the credit card issue at Discover Financial Services, 
 
 now this all stock deal is valued at more than $35 billion. 
 
Some consumer advocates aren't keen, saying that the plan mega merger could pose monopoly concerns. Now keep in mind it can't go through without an OK 
 
 from regulators. And observers say the companies should expect to see plenty of scrutiny. CNN's Vanessa Yurkevich is tracking the story for us 
 
 from New York. Ultimately, the question is what will this mean for consumers if indeed, this deal goes through? What are your thoughts?
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: I just got off a joint conference between Capital One and Discover. And they really laid 
 
 out three reasons why Capital One wanted to make this acquisition of Discover, one is, they want to be competitive in the credit card 
 
 marketplace. Discover has a huge international customer base, it would add about 300 million customers to the Capital One portfolio. 
 
They have international reach, which is something that Capital One is looking to expand upon. Also, it's interesting that Capital One just issues 
 
 credit cards; they don't do the processing of payments. Discover does, they issue and process payments through merchant fees and they're bringing in a 
 
 lot of money that way. Now Capital One will have access to that. 
 
And then of course to remain competitive in the marketplace, Capital One believes that this merger will position them really well. And that's 
 
 ultimately good for shareholders. But as you mentioned, for consumers, what does this mean, if you have a Discover card, a Capital One card. Well, for 
 
 right now, it doesn't mean anything, you're still going to stick with the cards that you have. 
 
Because as you mentioned, Becky, this does have to go through regulatory approval by the FTC. Capital One optimistic that this deal could close at 
 
 the end of this year or early next year. But it really depends how much of a fight the FTC wants to put up and how much they want to dig into the 
 
 financials and what this would mean for the credit card landscape. 
 
In terms of the consumer, you know, people really like their credit cards. They're very attached to all the perks that come with it. Capital One 
 
 saying this morning that they're likely not going to change any of the perks that Discover card members have. But maybe they'll get a couple 
 
 additional perks through what Capital One has to offer. And if there are any changes coming, there's going to be a 45 day notice.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
So consumers can decide, hey, do I want to stay with my Capital One card? Do I want to stay with my Discover card? They'll get a little bit of time 
 
 to decide, but nothing to be done right now, in terms of the consumer side, probably in about a year from now. We'll know more details about whether or 
 
 not this closes, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Understood and as is an important story given, Discover is the international footprint, of course. And the markets clearly, certainly 
 
 those trading Discoverer have sent that shot, that stock going higher this morning. So clearly, as far as the deal is concerned, investors in that 
 
 part of what could be this new type, liking what they see. Important earnings this week, we've got Home Depot and Walmart, what do we know at 
 
 this point? 
 
YURKEVICH: Yeah, we're hearing from Home Depot this morning that sales fell across stores in 2023 by 3.5 percent. And they're projecting sales to fall 
 
 by 1 percent in 2024. And that's largely because consumers are pulling back on improving their homes over the pandemic. There was so much spending that 
 
 people were doing to make their homes really nice, a place that they wanted to be 24/7. That's just not the case anymore. 
 
And here in the U.S. also, housing starts new construction fell to its lowest level since April of 2020. And then mortgage rates very expensive 
 
 for folks right now, so not a lot of home purchases. On the Walmart front though, sales up. Walmart has always been a place where people can find 
 
 affordable options despite your income level. They are also projecting sales to increase next year, as they saw in the last quarter of 2023, 
 
 Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. Thank you. 
 
YURKEVICH: Thanks.
 
ANDERSON: But business news for you, sports. Well, Champions League action coming your way tonight. The round of 16 continues all eyes will be on the 
 
 clash between last year's finalists Inter Milan against the Spanish side Atletico Madrid. Who's with us today? Amanda Davies is with us, she's got 
 
 "World Sport" coming up. What have you got? 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yeah, it's going to be a night of emotion for the Atletico's Coach Diego Atleti Simeone, returning to what has been a 
 
 really happy hunting ground for him as a player. He helped Inter Milan at the San Siro to claim the UEFA Cup in his days there. But this is really 
 
 the shining lighter of a competition for his side in Spain after relative domestic disappointment. 
 
So he'll be looking to put those friendships and relationships to one side. But we've got to look ahead to what promises to be a brilliant night 
 
 footballer coming up in just a couple of minutes, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Can't wait. It was like a Champions League week, round of 16, more on that with Amanda after this short break. We're back top of the hour 
 
 for you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END