Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: CNN International: Gaza Officials: Dozens Dead after Israel Strikes "Safe Zone"; Harris & Trump Set to Face Off in High-Stakes Debate; Ukraine Carries Out Largest Drone Attack to Date Near Moscow; Harris & Trump Prepare to Meet Face-to-Face for First Time; Pope Celebrated Mass in Front of Huge Crowd in East Timor. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired September 10, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: A sunny day in Philadelphia, where the two presidential candidates will debate just hours from now. It's 
 
 09:00 a.m. in Pennsylvania, it is 05:00 p.m. here in Abu Dhabi. I'm Becky Anderson. You are watching "Connect the World". 
 
We are following two major stories for you this hour. With only eight weeks ago, until a pivotal U.S. election, Kamala Harris and Donald Trump face off 
 
 in Philadelphia in front of tens of millions of voters. The last presidential debate was the death knell for Joe Biden's campaign. So how 
 
 can Harris avoid a similar fate? We will be bringing you analysis and predictions later this hour.
 
First, though, our main international story and a strike by Israeli forces on a safe zone has left scores of people dead, wounded or missing. It 
 
 happened at a camp housing tens of thousands of displaced Palestinians in Southern Gaza, while people were sleeping in tents.
 
The Israeli military says it struck Hamas terrorists operating a command center embedded in the humanitarian safe zone in Khan Yunis. Hamas denies 
 
 its fighters were present. Witnesses say at least five missiles struck the Al-Mawasi area. Gaza, civil defense officials say some 20 to 40 tents were 
 
 destroyed, and entire families have disappeared in the sand. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAGHREED ABU ASSI, GAZA RESIDENT: Children are orphans. Parents lost their children. We are all displaced. Where should we go? They told us to go to 
 
 Mawasi, and we did, and they strike us. We have been displaced 100 times. Where should we go? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Israeli forces have previously hit Al-Mawasi in pursuit of Hamas commanders. A strike in mid-July aimed at Hamas Military Chief, 
 
 Mohammed Deif killed at least 90 Palestinians with more CNN's Matthew Chance is in Tel Aviv in Israel, Matthew.
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Becky, thanks very much. Well, I mean, this is another massive strike that's been carried out 
 
 by the Israeli Defense Forces, the Israeli military on the Gaza Strip. The Israeli officials that have commented on this from the military that say 
 
 that they were targeting Hamas terrorists, they say that those individuals were operating a command-and-control center inside a humanitarian zone. 
 
But the weapons that were used seem to have been very powerful munitions indeed. It was meant to be a humanitarian zone, a safe area, and so clearly 
 
 it was very overcrowded, and the impact on civilians is horrific. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHANCE (voice-over): As rescue workers scrambled for survivors' eyewitnesses say the Israeli strikes targeted what was meant to be a safe 
 
 zone in the Southern Gaza Strip ripping through tents and makeshift shelters, leaving deep craters and dozens for killed and injured. They told 
 
 us this area was safe, says this man. I swear the people here were just normal he says, not fighters.
 
By daylight, you can see the extent of the destruction. Israel's military says it conducted a precise strike on Hamas terrorists operating a command-
 
 and-control center inside this humanitarian zone. An IDF statement says prior to the strike, numerous steps were taken to mitigate the risk of 
 
 harming civilians. 
 
This was a heavily populated area, and civilians were caught up in the powerful blast. This man says his two daughters were completely buried 
 
 under the sand. Only one survived, he says. He says he found the body parts of his neighbors strewn around. This 12-year-old girl is nursing a broken 
 
 shoulder suffered when her tent collapsed, she says, trapping her and her mother inside. I was scared because the strikes were so close she says.
 
Israel accuses Hamas of using civilians as human shields and insists the Israeli military takes extensive measures to enable civilians in Gaza to 
 
 avoid combat zones, but there's little real security in this brutal war. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHANCE (on camera): Well Becky, as you mentioned, this exact humanitarian area, this safe zone, has been targeted before, back in July. 
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
The Israeli Defense Forces, the Israeli military, said they were targeting senior Hamas leadership. In fact, it was Mohammed Deif (ph), the leader of 
 
 the Hamas military wing that they say that they were targeting there. And something in the area of 90 people were killed. The Palestinian Health 
 
 Ministry saying at least half of those killed were women and children. 
 
So yet again, it's been underlined, and we're reminded, if any reminder was needed, that it's civilians that are bearing the brunt of this ongoing 
 
 conflict in Gaza.
 
ANDERSON: Matthew Chance is on the ground. Matthew, thank you. And you can read more about the situation in Gaza in our "Meanwhile in the Middle East 
 
 Newsletter" the current edition, describing how the humanitarian crisis there is hitting new lows as conditions continue to deteriorate. Do head to 
 
 cnn.com or use the CNN app on your smartphone. 
 
Well, the world will be watching as U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris and Former President Donald Trump face-off in what is their first Presidential 
 
 Debate just hours from now. With only eight weeks to go until the election, the debate has the potential to be a defining moment as they battle it out 
 
 in Philadelphia, in front of the eyes, as it were, of tens of millions of voters.
 
National polls show the race remains extremely tight. So much is at stake for both candidates as they take to the debate stage tonight Tuesday. Well, 
 
 I want to bring in Democratic Political Strategist and Consultant Simon Rosenberg and Republican CNN Political Commentator S.E. Cupp to both of you 
 
 thank you. Very big day. Can you just explain, if you will, just how big it is? Just what's at stake here, Simon let's start with you. 
 
SIMON ROSENBERG, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST &amp; CONSULTANT: It's a big day. I mean, we have a very close, competitive election right now, so every day 
 
 matters. I think this is an important day for both candidates. Kamala Harris is still not as well known to the American people as Donald Trump. 
 
She's got a story that she needs to be able to tell to the American people about who she is and where she wants to take the country? And also define 
 
 do her work to define Donald Trump as being unfit and unwell and untethered to reality. She's going to -- so, I think both candidates are going to be 
 
 trying to tell their story and define the other one. 
 
And I think that, you know, we feel good about where we are. I mean, we feel like -- you know we are where we need to be polling wise. We've got a 
 
 superior ground and field operation that we think will make a big difference in the end. But this is a big day, and we need -- and Democrats 
 
 need to have a good day today.
 
ANDERSON: As does Donald Trump S.E. Cupp. What are your predictions about who or which Donald Trump is likely to turn up tonight?
 
S.E. CUPP, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yeah, we've seen Donald Trump debate a lot. You know, unlike Kamala Harris, Simon is right, she really has to 
 
 sort of introduce herself to especially undecided voters. We talked to a lot of undecided voters in our seven swing states who say they don't know 
 
 her enough. 
 
But Donald Trump is well known. We've seen him debate. We've seen several Donald Trump show up as you mentioned. We saw a pretty disciplined Donald 
 
 Trump debate Joe Biden the last time, but we've also seen a very erratic, aggressive, unlikeable Donald Trump show up to debates, especially when he 
 
 is debating a woman.
 
And so, I think the task for him tonight is to not be too aggressive with Kamala Harris, because we know from polling our swing state voters, 
 
 especially suburban women, really don't like when he attacks her personally. And those are the voters he needs to get. Those are the voters 
 
 both of the candidates are going for tonight. So that's key and crucial.
 
ANDERSON: Let's have a watch of this attack from Trump on Biden in that last debate, the CNN debate, that really became the defining moment. Have a 
 
 listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: I'm going to continue to move until we get the total ban on the total initiative relative to what 
 
 we can do with more Border Patrol and more asylum officers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: President Trump?
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I really don't know what he says the end of that sentence. I don't think he 
 
 knows what he said either.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: To some degree S.E. Cupp, he didn't need to attack Joe Biden there. But we've heard many analysts, and you've just made this point 
 
 suggesting that Trump needs to avoid attacking Harris on a number of issues, race, gender and intelligence, for example, which he's already been 
 
 doing.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Can he or his team train himself? Can he train himself, or can his team keep him in check to focus on key issues, like the economy?
 
CUPP: It's a tough slog. I mean, this is -- you know this is the whole -- the whole ballgame is keeping Trump on message. And when he's on message, 
 
 the issues that matter to most voters, including the economy and immigration, actually inert to the benefit of Republicans and Donald Trump. 
 
The problem is, he can't help himself from going personal. He didn't have to work that hard against Joe Biden, because Joe Biden was not a very good 
 
 debater that night, as we all know. Kamala Harris is a good debater, and I don't think she'll be rattled by Donald Trump very much.
 
However, she's got another task. She's really got to explain her policies and her policy shifts to voters. Voters are very forgiving. They understand 
 
 people want to change their minds. Sometimes they want to know why, and I'm hearing from a lot of swing state voters who are undecided. They're 
 
 concerned she's changing her mind just to get elected. 
 
They want to know that she's going to govern the way that she's running, and that she's not just saying what she has to, to win. So, she's going to 
 
 have to explain some of those policy flip flops tonight. 
 
ANDERSON: Yeah. I mean, she's -- this is about how she litigates her arguments tonight, of course, isn't it, Simon? Let's just have a look at 
 
 this Harris campaign, ad from -- ad from a few weeks ago. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The one thing Kamala Harris has always been fearless. As a prosecutor she put murderers and abusers behind bars as California's 
 
 Attorney General, she went after the big banks.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S., (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We believe in a future where every person has the opportunity, not just to get 
 
 by, but to get ahead, where every senior can retire with dignity, but Donald Trump wants to take our country backward. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: I mean, she doesn't know whether the nice or nasty Donald Trump is going to turn up tonight. I mean, I feel -- it feels weird, even --
 
ROSENBERG: I think we know --
 
ANDERSON: -- suggesting that, but it's true. Look, we're going to talk about whether nice or nasty blokes going to turn up. But she does want to 
 
 present herself as someone who can tackle bullies. How does Kamala Harris handle Donald Trump on the debate stage and combat these attacks that, for 
 
 example, she's just too liberal for these moderate voters, these undecided voters that S.E. Cupp was alluding to?
 
ROSENBERG: Listen, I think she's been doing a remarkable job of it so far in the campaign. I think one of the reasons that she's surged ahead in the 
 
 polling in the last few weeks, which was something we just didn't know was going to happen, was because she's come off as somebody who's ready for the 
 
 job. 
 
She's ready to do the job of being President of the United States. She's staring down -- she's done, I think a better job at talking about Donald 
 
 Trump and all of his issues than any other Democrat over the last nine years. I think she's been very effective because she's coming at it.
 
And I think the way that she's conveying this, which is, I have been in courtrooms with people like Donald Trump, with serial criminals like Donald 
 
 Trump, people who abused women like Donald Trump, people who stole from the government and their -- and their colleagues like Donald Trump, and I've 
 
 been successful at prosecuting and putting them in jail. 
 
And I think that what we've seen with her is this experience of her staring down bad people and people who've done bad things is really served her well 
 
 in this race against this man who is a bad man. And I think that she's clearly not intimidated by him.
 
And I think it's been core to her positioning and her strength in these early weeks of the campaign. And I think you're going to see that tonight. 
 
 I mean, she introduced herself in her very first speech as somebody who was a career prosecutor and an attorney general, and somebody who has a history 
 
 of dealing with people like Trump. And I actually think this is core and essential to everything that we're going to see tonight. She's not scared -
 
 -
 
ANDERSON: And she did all of that off a teleprompter, of course. And I do think often times when I talk to people about Kamala Harris, people are 
 
 surprised that she seems so much less effective off prompt when she is ultimately an extremely successful prosecutor -- you know in court, which 
 
 is odd. 
 
Look, we'll see how she gets on tonight. This is the first time, of course, S.E. Cupp that since Obama, that we've seen a candidate so young take to 
 
 the debate stage. We know that these debates are as much about optics at the end of the day as the content of what the candidates are saying, 
 
 although that is crucial to these undecided voters. Will our youth, relative youth, play a big role tonight? Do you think?
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
CUPP: Yeah, so we've been talking to a lot of young voters, and listen the news was not good for Democrats. Just a few months ago, young voters were 
 
 not with Joe Biden. A lot of them were exploring independent candidates like Cornel West and RFK Jr. They were considering staying home.
 
They just didn't like either of these candidates. She has brought a number of young voters back to the Democratic Party. And she's making up a lot of 
 
 ground that Joe Biden had kind of lost with this core base, but she's got to exceed those expectations. She's got to win over more voters.
 
And the war in Gaza is still a real sticking point for a lot of young voters. So, I expect that will be a question or -- tonight, she's got to 
 
 explain what her point of view on that issue is, and while she doesn't want to pander to young voters on it. I think she does need to sound a little 
 
 different than Joe Biden has sounded on it if she wants to win those voters over.
 
Now again, the key constituents that both candidates need are undecided voters in seven key swing states. That's it. That's the whole ball game. 
 
 So, I wouldn't make young voters my key focus, but neither candidate can really afford to lose any constituency at this point.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, this is fascinating. And of course, you bring up the war in Gaza that, of course, our top headline today dominating coverage, once 
 
 again, we see no sign at this point of a ceasefire or hostage deal. Many suggesting that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is sacrificing the 
 
 ceasefire and hostage deal for his own coalition.
 
Clearly an enormous amount of blame on the leadership of Hamas here as well in not getting that ceasefire deal across the line at present, I like you, 
 
 will be not surprised if there is a question on Gaza. In fact, I'll be extremely surprised if there is not a question on Gaza tonight there should 
 
 be.
 
Good thank you both for joining us. And tune in for special coverage of the ABC News Presidential Debate simulcast here on CNN will air it this 
 
 Tuesday, 09:00 p.m. Eastern Time. You'll work out where that is, locally, wherever you are watching in the world. And we'll replay that debate at the 
 
 time, shown on your screens on Wednesday. Well, still to come this hour --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- liftoff of the Polaris Dawn mission on the Falcon 9 rocket. The Falcon 9 has cleared the tower.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: A spectacular pre-dawn launch in Florida of the Polaris Dawn Mission. What's that? Well, we will tell you what that is about and what is 
 
 ahead for the all-civilian crew aboard during their five days in orbit. Plus, Ukraine strikes Moscow in its largest drone attack to date. What we 
 
 are learning about what is this massive assault, just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, after a number of delays, the SpaceX mission dubbed Polaris Dawn, lifted off just a few hours ago in what was a deafening pre-dawn 
 
 launch from Florida.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- Mission down range -- 35 seconds into the Polaris Dawn mission, flying crew on board dragon and Falcon 9 to new heights.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: And a thumbs up from the crew on what is considered a daring mission, the four on board plan to make the first ever privately funded 
 
 spacewalk and reach the highest altitudes for humans, in more than 50 years. They will be entering the Earth's radiation belts, which apparently 
 
 adds another perilous element to this mission.
 
Let's get right to CNN's Space and Defense Correspondent Kristin Fisher. Let's just start with what we understand this mission to be all about, and 
 
 the significance of plunging into these radiation belts for the benefit of those who are just fascinated by what goes on up there. Just break it down 
 
 for us, if you will? What's going on here?
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE &amp; DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: So, Becky, the real purpose of this mission. And it's not just one mission. It's going to be 
 
 three separate missions, all part of the Polaris program, and the purpose of it is to advance SpaceX's ultimate goal of someday colonizing Mars.
 
So, you have this billionaire American businessman and philanthropist Jared Isaacman, who first flew to space three years ago on the inspiration for 
 
 mission. He came back and said, Look, I see what you guys, what SpaceX is trying to do, colonize Mars and land NASA astronauts back on the moon.
 
But before you can do that, there's some certain key steps, key milestones, that you guys have to reach. Let me help fund it. And so that's what he's 
 
 doing. He's essentially being a test pilot, a guinea pig, whatever you want to call it, testing out these never before worn in space spacesuits on this 
 
 first commercial spacewalk in history. But that's really the core of this, Becky, trying to help SpaceX make humanity multiplanetary, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Listen, we'll do more with you on this. This is absolutely fascinating. These are new space suits, for example, which are in and of 
 
 themselves, absolutely revolutionary. It's been good to have you. Thank you. Well, overnight Ukraine carried out its largest drone attack to date 
 
 near Russia's capital, killing at least one person.
 
Russia says they shot down more than 140 drones, including 20 over the Moscow region. Now this barrage of drone strikes set fire to some apartment 
 
 buildings and grounded flights to Moscow. Kyiv has yet to comment on this latest attack, which comes as Moscow claims gains in Eastern Ukraine.
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen is in Eastern Ukraine with more. What do we know about this attack and just how significant is it, timing wise, coming as it did, 
 
 after what has been a very difficult time for Ukraine struggling under significant Russian attacks?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, significant Russian aerial attacks, not something, Becky, that we've seen a dramatic 
 
 uptick of over the past, I'd say, two to three weeks. The Russians using a lot of missiles in themselves, also using a lot of drones as well.
 
But the Ukrainians now increasingly showing that they do have substantial long distance drone capabilities, and they appear to have a lot of those 
 
 long-distance drones at their disposal. You said it, more than 140 drones, the Russians have said if they shot down just last night.
 
And of course, this comes only a little over a week after another large- scale drone attack by the Ukrainians towards Russian territory.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
At that point, the Russians saying they shot down more than 150 drones. And if we look at some of the areas that were targeted, it was really a wide 
 
 swath of Russian territory. You have, for instance, the areas near the border with Ukraine, some nine parts of Russia targeted in total.
 
But then when we focus on the Moscow region, it seems as though the Moscow airports and disrupting air traffic around Moscow seems to be one of the 
 
 aims that the Ukrainians may have had. You mentioned that one person who was killed on the ground. That person was killed in the suburb of Moscow 
 
 called Ramenskoye.
 
And there is actually a major international airport right around there, the Zhukovsky airport, which is actually known as the Ramenskoye Airport to a 
 
 lot of the people who lived down there. But two other Moscow airports, Becky, also had to shut down their flight operations for several hours. 
 
 There's one additional one in the north of the capital city that was apparently able to keep operating.
 
However, the Ukrainians have certainly made their mark. They've certainly shown that they do have those drone capabilities, which are substantial, 
 
 and that, of course, is very important to them as they themselves face this barrage of a long distance Russian aerial campaign, which of course, has 
 
 been going on for several months now, but which has seriously intensified, not just with the Russians, additionally using more drones.
 
Like, for instance, last night, we saw them launch about 46 drones towards Ukrainian territory. But also, of course, a lot of cruise missiles and 
 
 ballistic missiles as well, which are just so dangerous for Ukraine's critical infrastructure, but also for Ukraine cities, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, Fred. Fred is in Kyiv in Ukraine. Thank you. Let's get you up to speed and some of the other stories that are on our 
 
 radar right now. And the Princess of Wales has completed chemotherapy. She announced in a video that she plans to return to public life in the coming 
 
 months after.
 
Nearly a year, very few public appearances, she says she is doing what she can to remain cancer free as she continues to recover, and they released 
 
 this video of her with Prince William and their kids. Well, the FBI has interviewed people who know a suspected shooter in Kentucky, trying to 
 
 paint a picture of his motives.
 
Police are entering the fourth day of the manhunt capture Joseph Couch, who is believed to have injured five people in an attack on a highway on 
 
 Saturday. Wildfires in the Western U.S. are driving thousands from their homes. Look how close the Davis fire in Nevada is getting to houses right 
 
 now.
 
Currently, 60 active large wildfires have burned more than 80,000 hectares across the region. Well, you're watching CNN. Still to come Kamala Harris 
 
 and Donald Trump prepared to meet for the first time on a debate stage less than 12 hours from now. How the candidates are gearing up for what is, 
 
 frankly, the most important 90 minutes of their campaigns, possibly their political lives, and one topic that is sure to come up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: That's the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange. We are live on Wall Street for you, where the time is 09:30 a.m. Welcome back. I'm 
 
 Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. You are watching "Connect the World" with the time here is 05:30 in the evening.
 
Well, after a big boost for the DOW on Monday, let's take a look at the action on the open and the markets are looking in a healthy shape. That 
 
 comes as investors said, to get another look at key U.S. inflation data tomorrow with the Consumer Price Index report expected to show that 
 
 inflation slowed dramatically in August.
 
Good news for those hoping to get a larger rather than slightly smaller, interest rate cut at the September Fed meeting, of course. Well, the 
 
 European Court of Justice has ruled that iPhone maker Apple will have to pay its $14 billion tax bill. The ruling against Apple found that Ireland 
 
 had granted the company quote, illegal tax benefits.
 
That decision reflects the EU's recent tough stance on big tech. In a separate decision, the -- top court upheld a $2.6 billion antitrust fine 
 
 against Google. Well, that blow to Apple coming a day after the company unveiled its latest greatest products. On Monday, Apple introduced its 
 
 first iPhone, purpose built for generative AI from an enhanced Siri personal assistant to a new camera control with visual intelligence.
 
This iPhone 16 and the 16 Pro, they say, will come with an array of new AI capabilities. Perhaps no surprise, the company gave some examples of how it 
 
 will work.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In mail, it will be easy to quickly survey your inbox, instead of seeing the first couple lines of your emails, you'll see 
 
 summaries that convey the most useful information, and you'll be able to create new emoji simply by typing a description, giving you the perfect 
 
 response for your group thread.
 
If you come across a bike that looks exactly like the kind, you're in the market for, just tap to search Google for where you can buy something 
 
 similar.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, the iPhone 16 starts at 799 U.S. dollars. Pre orders begin on Friday in the state's Apple also unveiled its latest air pods and its 
 
 Apple watch. Well, just hours ago, of course, into the first ever debate between Vice President Kamala Harris and Former President Donald Trump.
 
The event in Philadelphia comes at a pivotal moment, with the two virtually deadlocked in an historically close race. And while the Trump campaign has 
 
 told reporters there will be some quote surprises, one thing is pretty much a guarantee we will hear all about the economy.
 
Poll after poll shows that, that is the top concern of American voters ahead of this election. We are covering both campaigns from Philadelphia. 
 
 CNN's National Politics Correspondent Eva McKend is the latest from meet Harris seminar. Alayna Treene following the Trump camp.
 
And so, let's start with you, Alayna, because that's a tease. If ever there was some we are supposed to be expecting, some quote, surprises, say the 
 
 Trump camp. Any clues, any direction as to what we might expect?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: You know, I'm not totally sure what they were referencing when they said that. That was from Jason Miller, Senior Adviser 
 
 to the Trump campaign, because look, there is no live audience. We these are the same debate rules we had during that June 27th debate with CNN.
 
So, there's not really room for surprises, but I guess we'll see what Donald Trump has up his sleeve for later today. But look, Becky, I've been 
 
 talking at length with many of Donald Trump's top advisers, his outside allies, and a key focus has really been to try to keep him on message.
 
Now we hear this all the time, and we talk about this all the time, but given this is Donald Trump, we know that it is very hard for him to do 
 
 that. His campaign wants him to talk about, like you said, the economy an issue where he is polling better than Kamala Harris, as well as on 
 
 immigration and crime.
 
They previewed some of those attacks on a call yesterday, really pointing out that they want him to go after Harris's handling of the U.S.-Mexico 
 
 border, the U.S. troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, and really tie her to Joe Biden's record argue that she was somewhat of a mastermind behind some 
 
 of the Biden Administration's policies.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
Of course, I think you'll hear this from Eva that she is expected to distinguish herself from Joe Biden this evening. But one thing Becky, that 
 
 I found really interesting, that I've been picking up in my conversation, is that even more than on the substance, people are concerned about those 
 
 allies to Donald Trump are more concerned about his tone and his temperament.
 
We know that Donald Trump can be very aggressive. He likes to veer into personal attacks. We may even see Harris try to goad him into some of 
 
 those, and his team has really been trying to keep him focused on the issues now, Tulsi Gabbard, she's a Former Democratic Congressman, now an 
 
 independent.
 
She has endorsed Donald Trump's campaign. She actually ran for president in 2020 and faced off with Harris on the debate stage during that Democratic 
 
 primary. She has been helping Donald Trump behind the scenes, help with some of those attacks, particularly when it comes to his rhetoric and to 
 
 try to keep him on message, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, fascinating, isn't it? And he, of course, is pitching himself with his campaign is as the change candidate. Eva, they are 
 
 accusing Harris, of course, of just more of the same. The two candidates have put forth vastly different policies when it comes to the economy, 
 
 front and center in so many voters' minds.
 
Harris's campaign has so far tried to stay close to what the Biden Administration has been preaching, while also trying to inject some 
 
 freshness, something different. What can we expect from Harris tonight when it comes to the economy and her messaging?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, she is likely to continue to distinguish herself from President Biden in 
 
 significant ways. We have already seen this to some extent on economic policy, and she will remind the country that she is the vice president 
 
 working in service of the president.
 
And so, while she no doubt, had influence. Ultimately, it was his policy vision that won the day, and now she is running for president herself, and 
 
 it is her campaign. She has really leaned into this idea of an opportunity economy, that there needs to be an economy that works for everyday 
 
 Americans.
 
And that looks like lowering the cost of prescription drugs, expanding affordable housing, giving first time home buyers, $25,000 loans, for 
 
 instance. And so, I think we will hear a lot more of this, and then her also lean into her personal biography as a mechanism to convey that she 
 
 understands what it is like to struggle.
 
I think she'll try to paint that contrast with Former President Trump arguing that he doesn't know what it's like to struggle and that he's more 
 
 concerned about himself and his own grievances, while she really is putting the American people first. But no doubt we will continue to see her, find 
 
 strategic ways to try to distance herself from President Biden.
 
ANDERSON: Well, we are, what 11.5 hours away from that debate, so there will be no more speculation after that. We will know how these two 
 
 candidates positioned themselves at 09:00 p.m. Eastern Time. And our viewers are well aware that that is simulcast on CNN, and we'll understand 
 
 where they are watching in the world, what time it will be. Thank you both.
 
Well, a big move in the world of Formula One ahead Aston Martin have gotten seriously stronger, and it's not a new driver that they are bringing in. 
 
 More on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, the pope has celebrated mass in East Timor this morning with an estimated 600,000 people. That's about half the population of the 
 
 entire country. Well, that massive crowd packed out a seaside park -- waiting over 12 hours to see the pope.
 
This is the penultimate stop of the pope's tour of Asia and the South Pacific. He praised the country's youngsters, calling its large number of 
 
 children a great gift. Well, the race is over, and Aston Martin have got their man, but it's not a new driver joining the team. 
 
The man who is joining them, widely regarded as the greatest car designer in Formula One history. And it is the man they hope will help lead them to 
 
 a world championship title. Tell us who it is Amanda?
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Well --
 
ANDERSON: And whether or not this is the man that will make it happen.
 
DAVIES: Well, Becky, I think that little clip with the HB pencils and the paper gave it away. Adrian Newey is a man famous for dominating the Formula 
 
 One World using the power of an HB pencil and a piece of paper. He is, without doubt, the most influential man behind the scenes in Formula One of 
 
 a generation, multiple generations.
 
He is the person who has designed 14 championship winning cars. He has an unparalleled 25 Formula One World titles to his name. The race has been on 
 
 since he announced he was leaving Red Bull earlier this year, people wondering whether he would retire. Every team, every person on the grid 
 
 wanted to work alongside him.
 
It is now Aston Martin. They're currently fifth in the Constructors' title. He's joining them from next year 2025 and we've been speaking to Lawrence 
 
 Stroll, the man who did the deal, who persuaded him to join his team. He's coming your way in just a couple of minutes in "World Sport".
 
ANDERSON: Excellent stuff! That is after this short break. We are back with the second now of "Connect the World" after that, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END