Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Pro-Palestinian Protests Spreading To Campuses Across U.S.; Sources: Hamas Weighing Ceasefire & Hostage Release Proposal; At Least 71 Killed, Dozens Injured In Latest Flooding Incident; Zelenskyy Urges Allies to Speed Up Military Aid Delivery; Exclusive Interview with Haitian Gang Leader; Paris Pushes for More Social Housing to Keep Costs Down. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired April 30, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:29]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, I'm John Vause. Ahead here on CNN Newsroom.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We will not be moved unless by force.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: And universities across the U.S. crackdown on pro-Palestinian protesters. Hundreds arrested so far.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. STATE OF SECRETARY: The proposal that is extraordinarily, extraordinarily generous.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: And it might just be the last best chance for peace in Gaza. Israel offers Hamas, a weeks' long ceasefire in exchange for hostages or facing all out military offensive on the border city of Rafah.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Everybody that lived here, and everything they owned, is gone.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Swept away in an instant by flash floods, weeks of heavy rain across Kenya and East Africa leave more than 100 people dead.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN Newsroom with John Vause. VAUSE: Pro-Palestinian protests and now spread to dozens of college campuses across the U.S. with the growing number of students clashing with police, the number of arrests so far reportedly in the hundreds. While at the epicenter of the demonstrations Columbia University and another Ivy League School Cornell, administration officials are now suspending students who refuse to leave protest encampments. At Virginia Commonwealth University on Monday, police in riot gear moved in and arrested protesters. One person was seen thrown to the ground, according to university officials, the gathering violated school policy.
 
At the University of Texas in Austin, 40 people arrested according to the Defend Palestine Group. Police we're also called to the University of California in Irvine. No word on clashes or arrests there. The protest against Israeli war in Gaza now stretches from coast to coast with the rest of more than 20 campuses in at least 16 states. And after negotiations -- between negotiations between protesters and administrators at Columbia University broke down Monday, students were told to leave their protest encampment by 2:00 p.m. and they would not face suspension and would still be eligible for graduation. Many decided to stay. Here is CNN's Miguel Marquez.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Protesting students at New York's Columbia University's standing their ground in their pro-Palestinian encampment after they say talks between protesters and the administration broke down.
 
SUEDA POLAT, COLUMBIA STUDENT NEGOTIATOR: We were engaging in good faith negotiations until the administration cut them off under threat of suspensions.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): Protesters inside and outside the Ivy League campus after a deadline passed refusing to leave until their demands are met.
 
POLAT: -- should be claimed that we had had constructive dialogue. The university will not divest from Israel.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): Encircling the protest encampment on college grounds.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're here to protect the students.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): Even after administrators set a hard deadline to clear the way for a graduation ceremony. The tensions on display outside Columbia's main gates as well. One woman forcibly removed by the New York City Police Department. The pressure ramping up during final exam week, the university threatening suspensions and expulsions, but promising protesters they would be eligible to complete the semester in good standing if they sign a form promising to abide by university policies through June 2025.
 
The tactic and earlier police involvement in moving protesters has failed to disband the encampment. Protesters saying -- UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These repulsive scare tactics mean nothing compared to the deaths of over 34,000 Palestinians.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): The majority of Columbia students just trying to get through finals.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: These circumstances have made things especially difficult. Most of my classes actually last week have been canceled outright.
 
MARQUEZ (voice-over): The groundswell of protests here growing in recent weeks, it set off a wave of protest encampments at universities nationwide.
 
State troopers pushing back against protesters at the University of Texas coming after nearly 60 arrests last week, emotions rising with graduation just weeks away. But for many colleges, the fallout continues. Emory University's faculty now calling for a vote of no confidence of President Gregory Fenves after two professors were arrested and students faced pepper balls and tasers.
 
The president saying in a statement, he found the videos to be deeply distressing and apologizing to students for an earlier statement in which he said the people behind the encampment on the quad were not members of the Emory community, coming at a time many universities are struggling to balance the right to free speech while protecting their students ability to pursue their education.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[01:05:18]
 
MARQUEZ: So the big question is, what next for Columbia University? Protesters say they will not leave their encampment willingly. The University says that they could face expulsion but does not want to bring NYPD in to clear the protesters again. But finals are underway, commencement in a couple of weeks, at some point push is going to come to shove. Back to you.
 
VAUSE: Our thanks, Miguel Marquez, for that report.
 
Now according to White House officials, Hamas is facing a stark choice except a generous ceasefire deal from Israel. Release all hostages or face an all-out military offensive on the border security of Rafah. The ceasefire would play out in two phases and could ultimately lead to a normalization of relations between Israel and the entire Middle East. The response from Hamas could come at any moment.
 
Here's CNN's Jeremy Diamond. And a warning, parts of his report are graphic.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Smoke from the latest Israeli air strike rises near the tense of the displaced in Rafah and it could get much worse. Israel is threatening a major ground offensive here. But far from the bombs and bullets, another path is emerging. Egypt putting forward a new framework for ceasefire and hostage deal.
 
SAMEH SHOUKRY, EGYPTIAN MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS: There is a proposal on the table up to the two sides to consider and accept but certainly the objective is a ceasefire.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Under the latest proposal, an Israeli source and a foreign diplomatic source tells CNN that Hamas would release between 20 and 33 hostages in exchange for a pause in the fighting and the release of hundreds of Palestinian prisoners over several weeks. Palestinians would also get unrestricted access to Northern Gaza, a new Israeli concession.
 
Israel and Hamas would then agree to what diplomats are calling the restoration of sustainable calm, a one year ceasefire that would see Israeli troops withdrawal from Gaza and the release of the remaining Israeli hostages.
 
BLINKEN: Hamas has before it a proposal that is extraordinarily, extraordinarily generous on the part of Israel. And in this moment, the only thing standing between the people of Gaza and a ceasefire is Hamas.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): As Israeli officials expect Hamas's leader in Gaza to respond in the coming days, hostage families are driving up the pressure on the Israeli government.
 
AVIVA SIEGEL, FREED HOSTAGE: I know the feeling of losing hope. Bring kids back to me. Bring back my hope. Bring Keith and all the hostages their lives back. We can't handle anymore. We've had enough.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Failing to reach a deal only promises more pain for those hostage families and more unspeakable grief in Rafah. Israeli airstrikes killing 22 people overnight in Rafah, according to hospital officials, including five children. Nestled among the body bags, the small body of one-year-old Dey Faala Abu Taha (ph) is impossible to miss. He was among 10 members of his family killed overnight.
 
We were sitting in our homes not doing anything, his uncle says, everyone was asleep in their beds. This is who they're targeting. This is their objective. This is the generation they're targeting. The stakes of ceasefire negotiations all too clear.
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Colin Clarke is Director of Policy and Research at the Soufan Group, which advises governments, corporations and NGOs on global intelligence and security issues. He's also author of "After the Caliphate." He joins us this hour from Pittsburgh. Welcome back. Good to see you.
 
COLIN P. CLARKE, DIRECTOR OF POLICY AND RESEARCH, THE SOUFAN GROUP: Thanks, John. Thanks for having me.
 
VAUSE: You're welcome. Now, it seems that there are two key factors in making this deal if it does in fact work. It's Israel's willingness to accept the release of between 20 and maybe 33 hostages in the first phase of the ceasefire, if you call it a ceasefire, and not 40. But that number remains fluid as much does as well. There's also this, the second phase is what sources described as the restoration of sustainable calm, during which the remaining hostages, captive Israeli soldiers and the bodies of hostages would be exchanged for more Palestinian prisoners.
 
According to a diplomatic source, calling it a sustainable calm is a way to agree to a permanent ceasefire without calling it a permanent ceasefire. So this measure actually does work and what goes ahead is essentially dependent now on wordplay, you know, a distinction without a difference?
 
CLARKE: Well, look, semantics do make a difference, at least in terms of bringing both parties to the negotiating table in the first place. So if, you know, that phrase is what's going to placate one side or the other and to get the mechanics of a deal in motion then it's worth it. Look, this could break down any moment. And so right now, I think diplomats are working overtime, just to get the kind of contours of the deal in place. We'll see if that happens in Cairo this week. A lot of people holding their breath and still, a lot of things could go wrong.
 <br>[01:10:24]
 
VAUSE: What next comes the unexpected response from Hamas. And according to the Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, the clock is ticking. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLINKEN: They have to decide. And they have to decide quickly. So we're looking to that. And I'm hopeful that they will make the right decision.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: An Israeli source told CNN, the only chance to stop and Israeli offensive on Rafah is to get a deal. So is it solely though, on Hamas at this point, because the Israeli prime minister, if he agrees to a Gaza ceasefire, the members of his right wing coalition, if, well, they'll bring down his government, which is a lot of pressure on Bibi right now, not just to make a deal, but also to break a deal.
 
CLARKE: Yes, no, of course, it's not only up to Hamas, there's multiple players in this game. Hamas is a major player, but so are the Israelis, as you pointed out. And I think, you know, pressure has been ramping up on Netanyahu, on the Israeli government. We see protests in the street. And, you know, the hostage families are key to this. They're very upset. They want their loved ones back home. And there's a lot of uncertainty about who's alive and who's dead at this point. So, again, there's a lot of room for error here. I do think this is the last best chance for peace. And if talks do break down, it seems like an IDF offensive on Rafah is imminent.
 
VAUSE: It just seemed that there are two extremes here, if this doesn't happen, if the ceasefire or negotiations fail, then we're looking at this Rafah offensive, which could be a bloodbath for civilians who have taken shelter in Rafah. At the same time, there is a lot to be gained. There's this possibility of, you know, normalization of relations across the Middle East fought for Israel. So the stakes at this stage seem incredibly huge.
 
CLARKE: The stakes are huge. Look, and for the Israeli people, for Israel as a state, we're talking about potentially historic deal normalization with Saudi Arabia, which many folks including myself, never thought they'd see in this lifetime. And so stakes are tremendous if the Biden administration can help facilitate this and pull this off a big diplomatic win for the United States in the administration, in an election year. But again, there's a lot of spoilers at play here, in Netanyahu's far right coalition.
 
And also on the other side, Yahya Sinwar, the Hamas leader, has been obstinate from the beginning. And insurgents win by not losing. And I think Hamas is very aware of that. Acutely aware, in fact, and can vary out -- could very well run out the string here.
 
VAUSE: And that's the question if this deal does go through, even if all the hostages are released and this ceasefire takes hold. In the short term, is there any other way to look at this as a win for Hamas?
 
CLARKE: No, I mean, look, if the leaders are still alive, Sinwar and Mohammed Deif, you know, the Israelis, one of the, you know, most feared militaries in the region, if not, the world will come away looking quite lackluster. You know, they've taken siege to Gaza, and have been unable to get at Hamas's leadership. And this is a group that's not going to go away. If there is a two state solution or a future Palestinian state, I guarantee you that Hamas will have a say over what the politics look like in a post war setting.
 
If they're not in the leadership themselves, they'll certainly be influencing those that are sitting in the leadership. They're not going to go away. We have to deal with them. We've seen this in many other conflicts over time. And so that's going to be painted as a big loss for the Israelis.
 
VAUSE: Yes, after what more than six months of war, the devastation of Gaza, more than 30,000 dead. I mean, yes, this will be not the outcome I think that Netanyahu was looking for when it all began. Colin Clarke, as always, thank you. Good to have you with us.
 
CLARKE: Thank you.
 
VAUSE: The U.S. State Department has found at least five Israeli army units guilty of gross violations of human rights, which happened outside of Gaza before the start of the current war with Hamas. Four of the units have reportedly taken action to remedy those violations. But the U.S. could restrict military assistance to the fifth. CNN's Kylie Atwood explains.
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: The State Department announced that they found five Israeli security units to be violated -- in violation of gross human rights abuses. That is, according to the State Department deputy spokesperson. But all of these units are still eligible to receive U.S. arms. And here's the breakdown of what this process called the Leahy Act is actually looking like right now.
 
Four of those units have actually taken remediation action that the United States has said it is credible action. We don't know exactly what that looks like. Presumably, it's those who are involved in these incidents being punished but we don't know particularly what the back and forth between the U.S.-Israel is on that is. And then with regard to the one unit, the one IDF unit that is still being looked at for these incidents, the United States is still in touch with the Israelis on this unit.
 <br>[01:15:18]
 
The Israelis have provided more information to the U.S. on this, according to the briefing that we received. And the State Department Deputy Spokesperson Vedant Patel was very clear to say that remediation across the board is consistent with regard to all countries that are required to be looked at under the Leahy Law, because they're receiving U.S. arms to make sure there aren't violations of human rights abuses.
 
But he also went on to say that remediation is also a country by country process. There's no timeframe here for when this process needs to be concluded. So we'll be watching to see when there's a final decision over this IDF unit if it is still eligible to receive U.S. arms. But as far as we know, that is still subject to the conversations between the U.S. and Israelis on the topic.
 
Kylie Atwood, CNN, the State Department.
 
VAUSE: Still to come here on CNN, flash flooding in Kenya leaves dozens dead many others homeless, this after weeks of torrential rain with no left in sight.
 
Also Reality Bites, Argentina's president learns the hard way that a promise not to do business with China was kind of asinine.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: At least 71 people have died, more than 100 injured by flash flooding in southern Kenya. Initial reports early Monday blamed adverse dam. But first responders and locals say the torrent of water was triggered by collapse tunnel under a railway bridge. Rescue operations are ongoing. And much of Kenya was already suffering from deadly flooding caused by weeks of torrential rain. Tens of thousands of people have been displaced. CNN's Larry Madowo has the very latest now reporting in from the disaster zone.
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's raining again here in Mai Mahiu in this rift valley town of Kenya. When that happened last night, this is the effect. This big SUV was swept several 100 meters down this way. We have thunderstorms right now. It was only blocked this SUV's movement. But these trees over here, that's the only thing that also stopped these trees completely uprooted.
 
But even worse, we see the foundation of a home here. This used to be a permanent home. The only thing that's left of it now is this foundation. The rest of it was swept away. Everybody that lived here and everything they owned is gone. But it's not just this home, all this area around here living up to those hills used to be several other permanent homes. They've all been swept away. Many people remain unaccounted for.
 
And the water is beginning to build up one more time. You see this deluge flowing down this way. The Kenyan government has warned people that live in places where likely to face that to move to higher ground. There's a multi agency response team trained to deal with these situations to relocate people, to provide shelter, to provide food and make sure that they're taken care of.
 <br>[01:20:10]
 
The government here in Kenya has also had to postpone the opening of schools for at least a week to avoid endangering the lives of learners. But in this valley here, there's so many trucks and vehicles strewn across it, sometimes blocked by the fences or by the trees. And you just see the entire devastation going down this way. It appears to be the worst damage that Kenya has seen since the rains began in March.
 
The Kenya Med Department is forecasting even more heavy to very heavy rainfall to come and warning everybody to be careful. But this is not just unique to Kenya, Tanzania, neighboring Tanzania has reported at least 155 people that have died because of the heavy rainfall. This has been hitting all of East Africa, and everybody has been asked to be careful.
 
Larry Madowo, CNN, Mai Mahiu.
 
VAUSE: According to U.K. Energy Minister, members of the G7 have agreed to shut down all coal fired power plants by 2035, which would be a potential breakthrough in the fight against climate change. Ministers from each G7 country had been meeting in Italy where climate talks are now expected to wrap Tuesday. Call as the world's dirtiest fossil fuel, one of the biggest contributors to carbon emissions. Any gets us (ph) has been a controversial topic and international talks for years.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDREW BOWLE, U.K.MINISTER FOR NUCLEAR AND RENEWABLES: Which is this is by the way, a historic agreement, something that we weren't able to achieve at COP 28 in Dubai last year. So to have the G7 nations come around the table and send that signal to the world that we the advanced economies of the world are committing to phasing out coal by the early 2030s. It's quite incredible.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Moving away from coal would impact Japan the most. Climate experts say nearly a third of Japan's electricity came from coal last year. Tokyo has bought progress on this issue at many past G7 meetings.
 
Argentina's president has made no secret of his dislike for the government in Beijing at one point describing it as a murderous regime. He promised on the campaign trail to end all business not just with China but with communist governments. But reality could be a harsh teacher. Right now senior Argentinian officials are in China. It's Argentina's biggest trading partner, and Argentina's Foreign Affairs Minister is now optimistic about their working relationship. CNN's Ivan Perez Sarmenti has the details.
 
IVAN PEREZ SARMENTI, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Argentina and China have had the fluid commercial relationship over 20 years since 2004. Regardless of who was in office, whether Chinese (ph) or not, all the time the relationship has grown until China became its second commercial partner until now that it's with Javier Milei as President who has said he was not going to do business with Communists.
 
Even though for years China was the principal buyer of soy, the main Argentina export and of 80 percent of the exported refined meat, the commercial relationship has been losing strength since 2023. With former parentless (ph) President Alberto Fernandez. But now with Milei in office, the European Union is about to take China's place.
 
According to official statistics, Brazil is still the first but in December as well as in March, the second place belonged to the European Union, and China has been relegated to the third place. Only in January, exports increased by 10.7 percent. But the rest of the operations continue to have negative numbers. Despite the fields, the relationship remains strong. By 2020, Argentina was considered the South American country with the largest Chinese investment in infrastructure.
 
Two years later, the country formalized its entry into the New Silk Route with the promise of new investments of more than $23 billion. Nevertheless, during his campaigns, Milei said he refuses to do business with either China or with any other communist country.
 
Some weeks ago, already as the president, he has reiterated that he's not aligned with Communists. However, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Argentina and the president of the Central Bank have traveled to China to revive commercial relations and ensure the continuity of the Schwab enforce since 2009.
 
A portion of that road $5 billion were used by Argentina to pay Chinese imports and to the IMF, 1.6 billion of that amount due in June. But as Milei said many times, there's no money.
 
Now everybody's expecting the results of this trip. Will Argentina reinforce its relationship with China? Will pragmatism or the need for financial help imposed over President Milei wishes of not having a relationship with countries that he considers to be communist. Ivan Perez Sarmenti, CNN.
 
VAUSE: Still to come here on CNN, a harsh crackdown on Palestinian protesters in the U.S. only Trump by an even harsher response by French authorities on protesters there. We'll explain why.
 <br>[01:25:55]
 
Also, as these pro-Palestinian protests spread across the world from Sydney to Paris to the United States now in Iran. Many Iranian support of those student demonstrations in the U.S. We'll tell you what Iranian students are saying, that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Twenty-seven minutes past the hour. Welcome back, everyone. You're watching CNN Newsroom. I'm John Vause. Right now it is 27 minutes past 11:00 in Salt Lake City. And this is the scene at the University of Utah. On the other side of that wall of riot police who are armed with shields and wearing helmets are a number of students who earlier on Monday set up a protest encampment in support of Palestinians in Gaza and against Israel's war there.
 
This is the scene on the other side that you can tell from our affiliate KUTV. This has been sort of a standoff which has been ongoing for, you know, some time now. The police have yet to move in. But what we've seen is that police moving in on a number of campuses across the United States on Monday, as university administrators take a much harder line on these protesters who are refusing to disperse despite ultimatums which have been delivered in a number of ways, university campuses across the U.S.
 
Police have been actually called in at the University of Texas that would be for the second time, though tearing down barriers and forcefully making some arrests there. One of the protest groups is about 40 people at the university were taken into custody. Details now from CNN's Ed Lavandera.
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Another week of protests here on the campus of the University of Texas. This is another one of those protests that has lasted hours. And it has resulted in the rest of dozens of protesters here on the campus. Exact numbers we don't know yet. But some are organizers and we have seen dozens of people taken into custody.
 
These are protesters who have been chanting for these officers to leave the campus. That appears to be what is happening now is they're particularly leaving this area. But it has been a tense day, as the protests here have escalated into once again seen arrest. We've also seen some intense flashpoints where protesters were confronted with either flashbangs or pepper spray. We've heard several loud explosions throughout the course of the protests.
 
But we also saw state troopers once again come into the campus and circle, the encampment and what was described by the protesters as a liberated zone. And that is what university officials say that they were just not going to allow. Any sign of occupation or occupying any part of this campus, including using tents and any kind of barricade to keep people out was just simply not going to be tolerated by the university.
 <br>[01:30:00] 
 
And that's why once again, you saw state troopers here. Protesters say that they are protesting peacefully. That they're trying to bring attention to the cause of the Palestinian people in Gaza. 
 
But at this point, the university simply is saying that they're not going to tolerate any kind of encampment or any kind of situation where these protestors are allowed to stay on campus for any extended period of time.
 
The university also says they believe the vast majority of the people who were taking part in this protest today were not students. So that is another element here that the university believes that a lot of this has been kind of agitated by people outside of the campus community here. 
 
But once again, another intense day as we've seen, protests and arrests here on the campus of the University of Texas. 
 
Ed Lavandera CNN, Austin, Texas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: These pro-Palestinian protests have spread around the world from Sydney to the U.S., also to France. Police in Paris, moving quickly and swiftly clearing dozens of demonstrators within hours of their arrival in the courtyard of the Sorbonne University Monday. The school says fewer than 50 protesters had set up tents, one student claims that protesters were forcibly removed. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We simply came to demonstrate. We set up tents and the police arrived about 42, 45 minutes ago to forcibly bring the rest from the courtyard. 
 
There were some altercations. It was quite violent. Some people were dragged on the ground, others were simply forced out by being taken by the arms. Then at the exit of the Sorbonne there was an identity charity. And now we are being prevented from leaving the demonstration.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Joining me now is Ariane Chebel d'Appollonia, professor at the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Rutgers University and at the Paris Institute of Political Studies. 
 
She's also the author of "Violent America: The dynamics of identity politics in a multiracial society. 
 
Professor, thank you for being with us.
 
ARIANE CHEBEL D'APPOLLONIA, PROFESSOR, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY: Thanks for having me. 
 
VAUSE: Ok, so the French government's response to these students protests appear to be on the orders of the prime minister. It also was swift and decisive. 
 
According to the French newspaper, "Le Figaro", Prime Minister Gabriel Attal asked the Sorbonne to be evacuated quickly as he had asked for the Paris Institute of Political Studies on Friday.
 
So why such a heavy-handed approach, even when compared to how universities in the United States have responded. They were widely criticized for being too severe. It seems the French approach has been even tougher.
 
D'APPOLLONIA: Well to be honest, this is not the job of the prime minister to decide what to do when it comes to the situation at Sciences Po and the Sorbonne. And remember, we are in electoral campaign for the European elections so I understand the political leaders want to intervene, want to have something to say in the crisis. 
 
But I want to make it clear that both La Sorbonne and Sciences Po resented the intervention of the government, especially the prime minister, saying that it was not his business to intervene. It's already very difficult for La Sorbonne or Sciences Po to deal with the situation without having to deal with politicization of the crisis. 
 
VAUSE: There was also action taken which was aimed sort of specifically at the administration at the university. That was after they reached a deal with protesters. The president of a regional council suspended all funding from the region intended for the Paris Institute of Political Studies until serenity and security were restored at the school. 
 
We're talking about a lot of money here. About a million euros is now on hold. Administrators were actually told essentially to get tougher. This does seem to be at odds with French values to say the least.
 
D'APPOLLONIA: Yes, it is. absolutely I agree with you. 
 
It's at odds and I think it's more symbolic politics than politics, because what do they mean by serenity? I know that Science Po, they tried to engage students, protesters in the debate about the situation in Gaza, about the difference between hate speech, free speech. 
 
And this I say, I'm very sorry because the situation is already very complicated. And we don't need an extra layer of confusion and the politicization of the situation.
 <br>[01:34:42]
 
D'APPOLLONIA: So on the other end, I have to admit that there is a tendency in France for the last few years to overreact to demonstrations, protests, and conflicting situations. 
 
Remember the mobilization of the police against the Yellow Vest, the gilets jaunes, a few years ago. So apparently there is less and less tolerance towards social protest. Social movement today in France. And this is very sad because this is not what we need. 
 
VAUSE: How much influence are the protests on U.S. college campuses having on the protests in France, are they reflective of the situation in the U.S. or are they reacting to the situation in the U.S.
 
D'APPOLLONIA: The symbolic politics, protest politics often cross the Atlantic. So we have this Americanization of social movements. We have the influence of what's going on in U.S. Today, its magnified with social media. But there are specific factors in Europe specifically in France (INAUDIBLE) for example there was always a strong impact of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in Europe.
 
If we remember the increase of increase of anti-Semitic incidents during the first and the second intifada.
 
For French people, for even in the U.K., what's going on in the middle east broadly defined what's going on in Israel and the relationship with the Palestinians. 
 
this is taking place in their background. I mean -- it's very close to the people living in France and Europe. Furthermore, France, w
 
Well, there is the largest Jewish community the path from Israel and the France is the home of the largest Muslim community. So we have antisemitism, we have islamophobia. The context is very important.
 
VAUSE: Absolutely, Professor, thank you so much for being with us and explaining what's happening in France and its universities there, some of the motivating factors there we appreciate your time. Thank you for being with us.
 
D'APPOLLONIA: You're welcome. 
 
VAUSE: Even at Tehran University in Iran, students gathered over the weekend in support of pro-Palestinian protesters in the United States. 
 
The anti-Israel, anti-war demonstrations on U.S. campuses have been embraced by Iran's leaders as CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Pro- Palestinian protesters at U.S. colleges getting vocal support from Iran. 
 
Conservative students and faculty at Tehran University staging a demo this weekend, chanting "Death to America" and "Death to Israel", saying they stand with those occupying U.S. universities.
 
"We not only support them, we are one united voice", this woman says, "we are like organs of the same body." UNIDENTIFIED MALE: American students also came out. It's great. We didn't - - we didn't think that they would come out. But the fact that they came out shows that, you know, we're fighting for the same thing.
 
PLEITGEN: "This movement by American students shows that freedom seeking and support of the oppressed has expanded all over the world", this man says. 
 
The Biden administration ripped into Iran over its crackdown of protests that swept the country in the Fall of 2022 after the death in police custody of Mahsa Amini, who was accused of breaking the country's strict hijab rules.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: The international community has come together to condemn and confront Iran's brutal crackdown, and we'll continue to act in support of the right of the Iranian people to speak out for their fundamental freedoms.
 
PLEITGEN: But now Iran says the U.S.' support of Israel's operation in Gaza, killing tens of thousands of Palestinians and police action against some of those occupying campuses is tarnishing America's own reputation.
 
Iran's leadership has been extremely vocal about the pro-Palestinian protests going on, on some U.S. campuses. They say the arrests that have been seen undermine America's role as a leading supporter, both of civil rights and a free speech.
 
For decades, Iran has been the U.S. and Israel's strongest adversary in the Middle East. Iran and Israel recently trading direct military blows for the first time. 
 
I went to a press conference of the Iranian Foreign Ministry, the spokesman saying, Tehran believes global opinion is now shifting their way.
 
"Public opinion of the world and free thinkers of the world will not tolerate this genocide and their loud voice won't be silenced", he said. 
 <br>[01:39:52]
 
PLEITGEN: "And through police actions and violent crackdown policies, they cannot silence the voice of those that protest against this crime and genocide."
 
Tehran ripping into the U.S. as the protesters on American campuses demand schools divest from Israel and want the Biden administration to pressure Israel to stop its attacks.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN -- Tehran.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Well, a volley of Russian missiles fired at the southern Ukrainian city of Odessa has killed at least four people at a popular seaside park. Several buildings, homes, and businesses, including the Students' Palace at the Odessa Law Academy were also damaged. Officials say two children and a pregnant woman are among the wounded.
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says incoming military aid is not arriving fast enough. He raised his concerns for a meeting with a NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg in Kyiv Monday. Stoltenberg admitted NATO allies have not delivered what they promised.
 
Speaking alongside Zelenskyy, Stoltenberg said delays in support have triggered, quote, "serious consequences on the battlefield".
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Timely support for our army. Today, I don't see anything positive on this point yet. 
 
There are supplies, they have slightly begun. This process needs to be sped.
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, SECRETARY GENERAL, NATO: Ukraine has been outgunned for months, forced to ration its ammunition. But it's not too late for Ukraine to prevail. More support is on the way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: When we come back here on CNN and exclusive. David Culver and his team, brave the mean streets of Haiti's capital to speak one-on- one with the country's most wanted gang leader.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Haiti's newly-assembled national council is hoping to restore peace and stability after years of corruption and gang violence which left the country in ruins. 
 
One of the men responsible for that destruction, a notorious gang leader with a $2 million bounty on his head spoke exclusively to CNN's David Culver. And a warning David's report contains some graphic images. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This war-torn intersection in Port-au-Prince is the blurred boundary signaling we are now in gang territory.
 
This is an area we have never been into before.
 
We're told to drive to this road and someone will meet us.
 
He's assured us that he's sending somebody and so we are to just wait for that person.
 
It looks like a vehicle here, a truck.
 
The armed men in the front seat motion for us to follow, so we do. Over rocky and flooded streets.
 
We're venturing deeper into land that for months, Haitian security experts have warned stay away from. But we've been assured by this gang's leader that we'll be safe. We only hope his messaging reached all the checkpoints.
 <br>[01:44:53]
 
CULVER: Four guys in the car behind us as well. So they're totally escorting us in.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Now, they've added a motorbike with two guys.
 
CULVER: After 45 minutes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're asking us to move.
 
CULVER: Ok.
 
Several dozen masked men and women, most carrying guns, direct us towards a driveway.
 
All right. This guy in front of us now seeming to be leading us to some sort of house. Good.
 
We're about to step out and meet Vitel'homme Innocent, considered by both U.S. and Haitian authorities to be a violent criminal and leader of the Kraze Barye gang. He's one of the FBI's 10 most wanted with a bounty of up to $2 million, accused in the kidnapping of American missionaries and the death of another American hostage.
 
Vitel'homme rarely seeks media attention. Yet given he commands what some U.S. officials say is the largest gang in Port-au-Prince, and his domain includes the U.S. Embassy, we wanted to better understand his motives. Vitel'homme agrees to meet us.
 
CULVER: Hi there.
 
On his turf.
 
I'm David.
 
Flanked by his followers, he leads us inside this flashy mansion.
 
And so is this your home?
 
In a room filled with gold rimmed furniture and stuffed animals, I ask him about the crisis engulfing Haiti.
 
"Our dream is to rid the country of the corrupt oligarchs and politicians who are holding us back," he says. "We need to get rid of the system and return stability to Haiti."
 
He speaks with intention and calls for greater dialogue.
 
"But if it's the same system that's been in power, then as armed groups, we will never put down our weapons," he says.
 
And so do you have regular communications with, as you say, the other armed groups? 
 
"Yes, we're united," he tells me.
 
The gangs have formed a coalition known as "Viv Ansanm," or Living Together, and collectively they push back on foreign intervention, holding tight their grips over a fractured state. Some using terror tactics like kidnapping, rape and murder to sustain control.
 
Is that something you've participated in, in ordering your men and women to kidnap?
 
He says he hopes to defend himself in court against those allegations. And while not denying his followers have kidnapped people, he deflects blame to outside forces for creating a state of corruption as he sees it. 
 
He's eager to show us other parts of his home and territory and introduces us to his top commander.
 
So you're his cousin?
 
Security experts suggest Kraze Barye has more than a thousand armed- gang members, including recently escaped inmates.
 
As you can see, a lot of his armed soldiers and followers are around us. And he's suggesting that we follow and drive with him.
 
He brings us to the edge of his territory. We notice his guards, normally curious and watching us, are instead looking outward, cautiously, toward another gang's territory. A reminder that the coalition of gangs might be more fragile than portrayed.
 
In the midst of our tour, a disturbing video starts circulating on WhatsApp. It reportedly shows the devastating and deadly aftermath of an allied gang attack on a community a few miles from where we are.
 
The destruction, the violence, the deaths that have played out, do you take any responsibility for that?
 
He only says he made mistakes and is not perfect. He blames politicians.
 
We're interrupted. Something nearby puts his guards on edge. 
 
We pick up the conversation a short distance away. Senior editor Caitlin Hu, further pressing for an explanation to the horrors we've seen in Haiti.
 
CAITLIN HU, CNN SENIOR EDITOR: But we have also met in hospitals, women, children -- innocent people who have been burned, who have been forced to leave their homes, who have been shot, who have been raped. Why are innocent people suffering in this struggle? He does not clearly answer. Instead, he frames the months of deadly street violence as collateral damage. He points the finger at police, saying they refuse to engage in dialogue and instead recklessly open fire. Police say they're desperately trying to keep the gangs from gaining more ground.
 
Vitel'homme claims to be a man of faith, devout in practicing Vodou, a common religion here in Haiti.
 
I've heard rumors, and I don't know how true they are, so I ask you that you have Vodou protection. Do you feel that protection?
 
Yes, he tells me confidently, adding that he prays daily for his fellow Haitians.
 
Ultimately, what is it going to take to bring stability and a future of calm to this country?
 <br>[01:49:48]
 
CULVER: He says he and the other armed groups need to be included in discussions of Haiti's future. That's the only way he sees convincing gang members to drop their guns in exchange for a future outside of violence.
 
As curfew nears, we head back the way we came. Vitel'homme stopping several times along the way, mingling with locals, handing out food, smiling as though on a campaign trail.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're getting out.
 
CULVER: He wants us to meet these two men, blind refugees. They tell us Vitel'homme took them in. But it leaves us wondering, why help these men and force so many others out of their homes? Look at actions over words, he tells me.
 
As we near the edge of his territory, and the end of our five-hour visit --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right, let's not hang around here if we don't have to.
 
CULVER: Vitel'homme gets out of his motorcade, waves for us to move forward and strolls to the desolate street corner. He then comes to our door and shakes each of our hands. His actions, intentional and symbolic.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sounds good?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
CULVER: Here we are, just blocks from the U.S. Embassy and that's clearly demonstration of how confident he is and the many he has around him displaying their show of force.
 
A flexing of strength in a lawless nation where, today at least, gangs hold the power.
 
David Culver, CNN -- Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Still to come here, as surely as night follows day, rent in an Olympic host city sores month before the Summer Games begin and so it is in Paris.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Paris prosecutors have set an October trial date for French actor, Gerard Depardieu. The 75-year-old is accused of sexual assault while filming on the movie, "The Green Shutters" three years ago. He denies wrongdoing. 
 
Prosecutors say Depardieu is also under investigation for the suspected rape and sexual assault of a co-star in 2018. Depardieu has appeared in more than 200 films and television shows.
 
Well, just months before the opening ceremony of this year's Olympics in Paris, demand for accommodation has caused the cost of renting to soar. Add to that a shortage of available housing. And this is adding to a crisis of the cost of living, which is why in Paris many are pushing for more rent-controlled, government-owned housing as CNN's Melissa Bell reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The view is second to none. The location as central as they get. But this rent-controlled apartment is now Catherine's for just $800 a month.
 
CATHERINE CORTINOVIS, LA SAMARITAINE RESIDENT: Welcome, the first time I saw it, I was so emotional that I burst into tears. 
 
BELL: And this is the building she was able to move into. 
 
Reopened in great pomp in 2021 after some 16 years of renovation, La Samaritaine is one of the French capitals most iconic spots for luxury shopping and dining, not to mention, its five-star hotel. 
 
But La Samaritaine was also obliged as part of its reconstruction to include 96 apartments for the city of Paris to let at modest rates.
 <br>[01:54:50]
 
JACQUES BAUDRIER, DEPUTY MAYOR OF PARIS IN CHARGE OF HOUSING: If you let the markets acts, we will have only empty houses, second homes for foreigners or rich French people. If you want Paris to stay a living city with people and everything in the city, you must develop a lot of social housing.
 
BELL: Across Europe, there's a danger of cities turning to museums and ordinary people being pushed out. But here in Paris, there's the added particularity, but this was a
 
 city entirely redesigned in the mid-19th century. And that's exactly what gives it its beauty, but also what makes it difficult for the city to adapt to the needs of the 21st century. 
 
All the more so that in the 20th century social housing was built on the outskirts in the so-called (INAUDIBLE), where occasionally top architects were hired to design vast social housing and sometime grand projects like the (INAUDIBLE) Estate, that was built in the early 1980s. 
 
But for all their occasional grandeur estates like these were kept at arms-length of the chic streets of central Paris, which meant long commutes for those who lived there.
 
Then in 2001 Paris' town hall was won by the left.
 
IAN BROSSAT, COMMUNIST PARTY SENATOR: Our objective is social mixing and avoiding making ghettos. Avoiding ghettos for poor people, avoiding ghettos for rich people.
 
And therefore prioritizing social housing where there is not enough. 
 
BELL: Private Parisian owners, weary of lowering house values' worth says Ian Brossat just one of the hurdles that Paris' town hall had to overcome.
 
In fact, the average price of a one-bedroom apartment in Paris has more than doubled these last 20 years and nearly tripled in some areas for two-bedroom homes which in turn has made centrally-located social housing all the more important.
 
Already, it is one in nine Parisians that benefit. People like Xena, who's placed in La Samaritaine development allows her to live close to the Central Paris Hospital where she works. 
 
As they say, it's an open-air museum. It's pleasant. It's really a good place to live.
 
An open-air museum that is now seeking to help those who keep its schools and hospitals running to be able to benefit from them too. 
 
Melissa Bell, CNN -- Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Thanks for watching. 
 
I'm John Vause. 
 
CNN NEWSROOM continues with my friend and colleague Rosemary Church after a short break.
 
Hope to see you right back here tomorrow.
 <br>[01:57:20] (COMMERCIAL BREAK)