Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Arizona Court Reinstate Century-Old Abortion Ban; U.S. President Criticizes Netanyahu's Handling Of War; U.S. Sends Seized Iranian Weapons, Ammo To Ukraine. Israel Says 468 Aid Trucks Entered Gaza on Tuesday, the Highest Single-day Number Since the War Began; U.K. Joins Eight Other Nations to Conduct Airdrop Into Gaza; Turkey Restricting Exports to Israel Over Aid Dispute, Restricted Items Include Steel, Aluminum, Cement, Electrical Cables; 100,000 Evacuated as Flooding Worsens in Russia-Kazakhstan Border After a Dam Burst; Trillions of Cicadas Expected to Emerge in Parts of U.S. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired April 10, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:29]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church, Just ahead. U.S. President Joe Biden is ramping up his criticism of Israel's handling of the war in Gaza, calling Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's policy a mistake.
 
A new flashpoint in America's legal and political battle over abortion rights, after Arizona's highest court reinstates a century-old law banning almost all abortions in the state.
 
And a landmark ruling finds that Switzerland has broken the law by failing to adequately address the climate crisis.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Thanks for joining us, and we begin with growing questions over Israel's plans for a potential ground offensive into the southern Gaza city of Rafah where nearly a million and a half Palestinians are now located. The Israeli Prime Minister has insisted the Rafah operation is going to happen, but senior officials within the Biden administration say that declaration is nothing more than bravado.
 
And they're casting doubt on Mr. Netanyahu's claim that a date has been set for the Rafah offensive. The U.S. President meanwhile issued one of his sharpest rebukes yet. Joe Biden told Univision News that he disagrees with how the Israeli leader is handling the war.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think what he's doing is a mistake. I don't agree with his -- I think it's outrageous. So, I'm -- what I'm calling for is for the Israelis to just call for a ceasefire, allow for the next six, eight weeks total access to all food and medicine going into the country. And I think there's no excuse to not provide for the medical and the -- and the -- and the food needs of those people. They should be done now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: CNN's Jeremy Diamond brings us the latest from Gaza and Israel after more than six months of war. And a warning, there are images in his piece you may find disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As Palestinians pick through the rubble in the wake of a major Israeli withdrawal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is vowing this reprieve in the fighting will not last.
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL (through translator): We will complete the elimination of Hamas's battalions including in Rafah. No force in the world will stop us. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Netanyahu's bellicose rhetoric coming after he faced recriminations from his right flank. With Israel's national security minister, Itamar Ben-Gvir, threatening to pull out of the government if the war ends without an invasion of Rafah. Overnight, Israel's military focus on threats from outside Gaza, fending off the latest attack from Houthi militants in Yemen.
 
For the first time, Israel's sea dome air defense system, a ship- mounted version of the iron dome, shooting down a Houthi drone over the Red Sea. Israel's security cabinet convening to discuss start and stop negotiations over a potential ceasefire and hostage release deal. For now, a deal seems out of reach. In a statement, Hamas says Israel's latest position has not responded to any of the demands of our people and our resistance.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: The ball is in Hamas's court. The world is watching to see what it does.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Hamas, continuing to insist on the total withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza, an unfettered access for Palestinians seeking to return to northern Gaza. The ratio of Palestinian prisoners to be released in exchange for 40 Israeli hostages also still being negotiated.
 
Amid the ruins of Gaza's largest hospital, Palestinian crews and U.N. agencies sift through mounds of dirt and shallow mass graves, exhuming the bodies of dozens who were killed during the Israeli military's two-week assault on the hospital, where Israel says it was battling Hamas militants. Gaza's civil defense says 381 bodies have been recovered so far, in an effort to give some peace to the dead and their loved ones.
 <br>[02:05:03]
 
Three weeks after Hassan Kuneita (ph) says his 83-year-old father was detained by the Israeli army, he has found what remains of his body.
 
We've been looking for almost a week since they withdrew from the area until this moment, he says. Five minutes ago, my nephew called me and told me they found the body over there. That sense of closure is cold comfort for Hassan and his family. But others, like Dr. Nuha Swaylan (ph) are looking for just that.
 
I came to look for my husband, she says, explaining that he is a doctor who was detained by the Israeli military. Now, she does not know if he is alive or dead. Where are they? She cries. We don't know if they are arrested or detained, underground or above ground. Where are they? Tell us where they are. Tell me where my husband is. Search for answers that is far from over. 
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And I want to bring in Gideon Levy from Tel Aviv, who is a columnist at the Haaretsz newspaper. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
GIDEON LEVY, COLUMNIST, HAARETZ NEWSPAPER: Thank you for having me.
 
CHURCH: U.S. President Joe Biden is ramping up criticism over Israel's handling of the war in Gaza, calling Prime Minister Netanyahu's Gaza policy a mistake. And the deadly Israeli attack on the seven World Central Kitchen aid workers outrageous. What does that reveal to you about deteriorating U.S.-Israeli relations with President Biden also threatening consequences if Netanyahu doesn't show more concern for civilian casualties?
 
LEVY: No doubt that the relations are now in the lowest point, maybe April. But we have to pay attention to the fact that no measures were taken until now. And as long as no measures are taken and the airplanes are still full (INAUDIBLE) and support and the -- and the arms, heavy convoys on their way to Israel, the United States never stopped the supply of weapons in this war. As long as this continues, the leverage of the United States is limited and Israel and Netanyahu can easily ignore it.
 
CHURCH: And Netanyahu said on Monday that a date for the assault on the southern Gaza city of Rafah had been set. The Biden administration calls that bravado. But his announcement came after Israel's National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir posted on X that the Israeli Prime Minister would not have a mandate to continue serving if he decided to end the war without an extensive attack on Rafah. So, what does this indicate to you about what will likely happen in Rafah?
 
LEVY: So here, you've got it all in a nutshell because the declaration of Netanyahu and the declaration of Ben-Gvir, they are all in their political basis and have very little to do with continuing or stopping the war. By the end of the day, the fate of Rafah and the 1.2 million refugees who are there and it might be really a bloodbath, their fate will be much more decided in Washington than in Jerusalem.
 
If the American administration will be decisive enough to prevent an operation in Rafah which can really become him to turn into a tragedy, then Israel will not be able to conduct. Netanyahu spreads now all kinds of arrogant expressions in order to count his face, to calm Ben- Gvir and to survive power.
 
CHURCH: And former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told CNN Monday that he believes Netanyahu is running his governing coalition and the war in Gaza on the basis of personal interest and in order to remain in power. What's your reaction to that assessment?
 
LEVY: There's no politician who is not motivated by personal interest. The question is, are they the most important thing? Are they the first priority or are they also other considerations? And none of us can decide and get into the brain of Netanyahu, any other politician, and say this is only because of personal consideration. Yes, the behavior of Netanyahu in this war shows that he became a war of his survival much more than a war for peace, justice, territory, keeping the terror or whatever ends.
 <br>[02:10:00]
 
But still, I guess, even Netanyahu is also some other considerations. And above all, Netanyahu is very influential and very powerful, but he's not alone. The whole system supports the continues of the war. The whole government supports him, even the opposition is not opposing continuing the war. So, we cannot put everything on Netanyahu.
 
CHURCH: Right. But let's look at the polls because they show that Israelis don't trust Netanyahu. So how shaky is his hold on power right now? And how likely is it that he'll soon be replaced with growing protests against the government calling for Netanyahu's resignation over his handling of the war and the stalled release of hostages?
 
LEVY: In a very ironic way, the polls are his best guarantee because the bad polls are for the entire government. And therefore, this government might continue and might stay together, nevertheless, the protest, nevertheless, the bad situation, the polls, because they know that going now for elections will be suicidal for them. In Israel, finally, as long as you have the majority in the parliament, you can continue, even if the streets are burning and people are screaming and protesting.
 
By the end of the day, it will be decided in the parliament. Right now, it seems the government is still very solid. How long will it last? Nobody can tell, especially not in Israeli politics, but I have to add here one warning. Don't expect too much from the alternative because any alternative government, unfortunately, so will support the main steps that Netanyahu took in this war. They were never in a position for the war.
 
CHURCH: Gideon Levy joining us from Tel Aviv. Many thanks for your perspective on this. Appreciate it.
 
LEVY: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: As Israel faces mounting international criticism over its war in Gaza, Britain's top diplomat says the U.K. will not suspend arms sales to Israel. British Foreign Secretary David Cameron's comments came during a visit to Washington that British government is under pressure to suspend arms exports over charges of humanitarian violations in Gaza. But Cameron says they are concerned about the amount of humanitarian aid flowing into the enclave.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY: Let me be clear, though, we continue to have grave concerns around the humanitarian access issue in Gaza, both for the period that was assessed and subsequently. We've seen a welcome increase in trucks with -- as Tony said, perhaps as many as 400 going in yesterday, the highest since October 7th, and of course public commitments from Israel to flood Gaza with aid. These now need to be turned into reality. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Cameron also said that he had a "good meeting with former U.S. President Donald Trump" and discussed a range of international issues, including the war in Gaza and in Ukraine. Cameron says he reiterated supporting Ukraine is an investment in U.S. security. In the coming hours, Cameron is expected to meet U.S. congressional leaders and urge them to approve additional assistance for Ukraine as an aid bill remains stalled in Congress.
 
The Ukrainian military has taken delivery of thousands of machine guns, sniper rifles, rocket launchers, and hundreds of thousands of rounds of ammunition from the United States. But the weapons didn't come from America, they were seized from boats used by Iran to ship weapons to Houthi rebels in Yemen. U.S. Central Command says the weapons will equip one Ukrainian brigade of around 4,000 soldiers and help them fight the Russian invasion.
 
This isn't the first time the U.S. has sent seized Iranian military equipment to Ukraine. It transferred more than a million rounds of Iranian ammunition to Ukrainian forces back in October.
 
At least four civilians were killed by Russian strikes in Ukraine on Tuesday. According to local officials, three people were killed in a village in the eastern Donetsk region and a woman was killed in the Chernihiv region in northern Ukraine. Several people were wounded in the strikes, including four people in Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city. Military officials in the region say Russia targeted civilian buildings with powerful guided bombs. They warned that there may be people trapped under the rubble.
 
Well, new numbers from the U.N. suggest Russia may be ramping up its deadly attacks across Ukraine with at least 604 civilians killed or wounded in March alone. A 20 percent increase compared to February.
 <br>[02:15:05]
 
And at least 57 of those killed or wounded were children. That's double the number from February. Ukraine's president travelled to the battered city of Kharkiv on Tuesday, calling on international aid to help protect the city from increasing Russian attacks. Volodymyr Zelenskyy spent the day inspecting fortification lines there. In recent weeks Russia stepped up its attacks on the city. Mr. Zelenskyy says it's proof that they want to erase Ukraine from the map. He praised the people of Kharkiv who are trying to live a normal life in the face of wanton violence.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): Russia's goal is clear. They want to do everything possible to drive people out of Kharkiv and the region. Whatever Putin touches becomes ruined, we must make every effort, both possible and impossible, to protect as many of our cities and communities as possible from him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Back here in the United States, the Arizona Supreme Court dealt a major setback to abortion advocates on Tuesday. The court ruled Arizona must now follow a 160-year-old law that bans all abortions except to save the mother's life. 
 
CNN's Brian Todd has more on this historic ruling.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOV. KATIE HOBBS (D) ARIZONA: It is a dark day in Arizona.
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORESPONDENT (voice-over): Arizona's Supreme Court ruling that the state must enforce a near total ban on all abortions. The controversial law, which dates back to the Civil War before Arizona even became a state. The court saying, "physicians are now on notice that all abortions except those necessary to save a woman's life are illegal." Abortion providers could face a prison sentence of two to five years.
 
HOBBS: The near total Civil War era ban that continues to hang over our heads only serves to create more chaos for women and doctors in our state.
 
TODD (voice-over): The Arizona law is on hold for two weeks, while a lower court hears arguments on its constitutionality. And Arizona's attorney general, Chris Mayes, a Democrat, says that at least while she's in office, no woman or doctor will be prosecuted under this law by the state. President Biden calls the new ban cruel, and Vice President Kamala Harris said this on X.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, UNITED STATES VICE PRESIDENT: To stop bans like this, we need a United States Congress that will restore the protections of Roe v. Wade. And when they do, President Joe Biden will sign it into law. And let's always remember it does not have to be this way. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Opponents of abortion are applauding the Arizona ruling. The group Susan B. Anthony Pro Life America in a statement saying, "we celebrate this enormous victory for unborn children and their mothers," and claiming the ruling, "will protect more than 11,000 babies annually." This comes just one day after former President Donald Trump announced his campaign position on abortion, declining to support a federal nationwide ban on abortions, saying it should be left up to states.
 
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: At the end of the day, this is all about the will of the people.
 
TODD (voice-over): And it all comes on the heels of a controversial ruling in Florida's Supreme Court last week that allowed a ban on abortions after six weeks of pregnancy to take effect next month. Florida's High Court did allow a proposed constitutional amendment that would establish the right to an abortion to go on the ballot this November, to the delight of abortion rights activists who pushed for that.
 
LAUREN BRENZEL, DIRECTOR, YES ON 4: What it does is remove politicians' ability to interfere with her private medical decisions.
 
TODD (voice-over): Florida's one of several states where abortion will or may be on the ballot in November, when voters will decide whether to guarantee the right to an abortion in their state's constitutions.
 
AYESHA RASCOE, HOST, WEEKEND EDITION SUNDAY: You're seeing all of this turmoil where people don't know from day to day what is going to be the law in their state, what happens if they get pregnant and they want to terminate the pregnancy?
 
TODD (on camera): Many abortion rights activists still have their sights set on a longer-term strategy to restore federally approved access to abortion. But even they realize it won't happen soon. One leader of Planned Parenthood saying it could take decades. So, for now, their strategy is focused on going state by state to protect and maybe even expand in some cases access to abortion.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHURCH: Still to come, a landmark climate decision which could have a ripple effect worldwide. And international court rules the government of Switzerland violated human rights by failing to act on climate change.
 
And Turkey is cutting off key exports to Israel as a dispute continues to grow over aid deliveries to Gaza. Back with that, and more in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:21:50]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. In a landmark ruling, the European Court of Human Rights has found Switzerland violated human rights by failing to adequately address climate change. It's the first time the court has ruled on climate matters. The case was brought by more than 2,000 Swiss women, most in their 70s, who claimed heat waves were harming their health and quality of life.
 
ANNE MAHRER, CO-PRESIDENT, KLIMASENIORINNEN (through translator): We can be very proud. We, the elderly, have brought to the court for the first time the issue of climate and fundamental rights. And the court has recognized us and our fundamental right to a healthy climate. And that our country should do what it has not done until now, meaning to take ambitious measures to protect our health and protect the future for all of us.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHURCH: There's no right of appeal in the court and the judgment is legally binding, meaning Switzerland may have to address its fossil fuel usage more quickly than planned. The ruling could also set a precedent for similar claims in other international courts to other climate cases before the court of human rights were both ruled inadmissible each for different reasons. 
 
CNN's Clare Sebastian has more now on Tuesday's historic ruling.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the fact that three cases claiming government alleged inaction on climate change violates people's human rights made it to the European Court of Human Rights in the first place was already groundbreaking. But the fact that one of the cases was partially successful is another major milestone for climate activists. It explicitly links national climate change policies with a state's duty to protect the human rights of its citizens.
 
And it bolsters, of course, the body of proof that litigation can be an effective tool alongside global treaties to force governments to do more to stop global warming. Experts and activists say this will open the floodgates to more cases in Europe and globally where there is a growing trend of human rights cases being brought over climate change. That, as you've shared, a Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GRETA THUNBERG, CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIVIST: This is only the beginning of climate litigation. All over the world, the more and more people are taking their government accord, holding them responsible for their actions. And this -- the results of this can mean in no way that we lean back. This means that we have to fight even more since this is only the beginning.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: The two other cases, including one attempting to force 32 countries to do more to prevent global warming or dismissed for technical reasons. But the court's ruling in the Swiss case is binding with no option to appeal. Switzerland will now be compelled to act, including possibly reducing its greenhouse gas consumption. The Swiss government says it's analyzing the judgment and the "measures Switzerland has to take for the future."
 
Clare Sebastian, CNN, London. CHURCH: A new study done by the Climate Advocacy Group, Planet Reimagined, shows the majority of music fans are open to hearing about climate change from their political side. The climate change from their favorite performers. Earlier I spoke with musician Adam Met, the founder of Planet Reimagined about the study and how far fans are willing to go.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADAM MET, FOUNDER, PLANET REIMAGINED: When you're at a concert, there is palpable energy that really you can cut with a knife.
 <br>[02:25:05]
 
And around 250 million people attend concerts in the United States every year. So imagine if you could take all of that energy and use it for good, use it to help combat climate. And one of the most amazing things that we found out is that fans are actually ready to do that. They are actually ready to take action on climate, especially if the artist asks them to. And they're ready to do it right there on site.
 
It's amazing, but three quarters of fans actually believe that climate change is a problem. And 78 percent of them are already taking action on climate. So, if we think of that as a base, we actually have so much room to grow, but also so many people who are starting at a great place. 
 
CHURCH: So, what exactly do these fans want to hear from their favorite bands and artists? And what calls to action on climate change? Are they likely to respond to? How far would they actually go, do you think?
 
MET: It's funny, just a handful of years ago, you would have thought that we want artists to just focus on the music. You know, just go up there and sing, take us away from our problems. But our world is so connected now that fans want artists to be their guides, want to -- want to invite them and to share then -- share with them the process of how to engage around climate. And we are way past the changing from plastic straws to cut to paper straws.
 
We are way past the idea of, I'm going to agree to go vegan for one meal a week, right? The kinds of actions that we're looking for people to take are real concrete things that are going to get elected officials, governments and companies to make changes. So right there on site, we are having people sign petitions, we're having people register to vote, learning about who to vote for, that would make a difference for climate.
 
And actually, contact their elected officials right there on site by writing them letters or calling them and leaving them messages. But one of the most impactful things we found is that it's not just if the artist says, will you do this? Will you take this action? It's if the artist says, will you take this action and I'm going to do it too. If fans see that the artist is actually taking action themselves, they are much more likely to participate in that action.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And you can hear my full interview with Adam Met next hour here on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Still to come. A growing rift between Israel and Turkey over aid deliveries to Gaza has now led to a major trade dispute between the two countries. We'll explain.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:33]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back, everyone. Israel says the number of aid trucks that entered Gaza on Tuesday mark the highest daily count since the start of the war. Israel's agency that controls access to the enclave says nearly 470 trucks carrying humanitarian assistance were inspected and finally, let into Gaza. But the U.N. spokesperson says, challenges remain once the trucks get through the crossing and not all trucks were able to cross into the territory at full capacity due to security reasons.
 
Meantime, the USAID chief told a Senate subcommittee that the level of aid going into Gaza needs to be increased.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAMANTHA POWER, ADMINISTRATOR, USAID: We need to go way beyond even the 500 trucks that I hope we can approach here in the coming days. We have famine-like conditions in Gaza and supermarkets filled with food within a few kilometers away. So, it is incredibly important that the food that is available get to the people who, especially in the case of very young children -- we are getting a growing number of reports of death by malnutrition or diseases induced by malnutrition.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: That appeal comes as the U.K. joined eight other nations to carry out a large-scale airdrop of aid into Gaza on Tuesday to coincide with the end of Ramadan. Diplomatic tensions are rising between Israel and Turkey after Ankara accused Israel of denying its request to airdrop aid into Gaza. Now, Turkey is restricting exports to Israel, including steel, cement, and electrical cables, and Israel is accusing Turkey of violating a trade agreement. CNN's Scott McLean has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Since the war in Gaza began, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been one of the loudest voices against Israel, calling it a terrorist state, accusing it of genocide, and even making this comparison.
 
Is there anything Netanyahu does that is less than Hitler? No, he said in December. But despite the bark, there has been no bite until now.
 
There can be no excuse to Israel preventing our attempt to send aid from the air to our Gazan brothers who are fighting hunger said Hakan Fidan. In response to this situation, we have decided to take a series of new measures against Israel.
 
After Turkey accused Israel of rejecting a Turkish request to airdrop aid to Gaza, Turkey's foreign minister promised consequences. Ankara has now banned the export of some metals, cement, industrial machinery, more than 50 products to Israel until it agrees to a ceasefire in Gaza and allows for the uninterrupted flow of humanitarian aid.
 
Israeli foreign minister promised to retaliate with its own export bans aimed at Turkey's inflation battered economy and said, Erdogan is once again sacrificing the economic interests of the people of Turkey for his support of the Hamas murderers in Gaza.
 
MCLEAN: While Turkish is really political relations have been hot and cold through the years, lately economic ties have only been warming with annual trade volume now into the billions. And while there were some smaller organized boycotts of Israel in Turkey at the outset of the war, Erdogan's government has long resisted calls to cut trade with Israel.
 
AKIF CAGATAY KILIC, TURKISH PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN POLICY &amp; SECURITY CHIEF ADVISER: Well, there's no talk about sanctions at this point.
 
MCLEAN: This was Erdogan's chief adviser in December.
 
CAGATAY KILIC: But of course, the relationship is strained.
 
MCLEAN: President Erdogan has called Israel a terrorist state.
 
CAGATAY KILIC: Yes.
 
MCLEAN: And I wonder why Turkey thinks it is OK to do business with a terrorist state?
 
CAGATAY KILIC: Well, I mean, you saying business but the fact is that there are certain companies that are based in Turkiye, certain companies that are based in Israel. This is not a state-to-state issue.
 
This week, police detained dozens of protesters on Istanbul's famous Istiklal Street, who were calling for Turkey to cut off trade with Israel. And in local elections, less than two weeks ago, Erdogan was dealt a stinging defeat and smaller parties promising to take stronger action against Israel siphoned off votes from his ruling AK Party.
 
MCLEAN: You think that President Erdogan has heard the message from voters loud and clear?
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
SEDA DEMIRALP, PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE, ISIK UNIVERSITY ISTANBUL: Oh yeah, this is a very clear message. Wherever you look, you see pro-government groups talking about how government failed to respond to domestic pressure, domestic demands about the Gaza war, and about the economy, and how the government failed to notice that complaints were this big before.
 
Scott Mclean, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: More than 100,000 people have been forced from their homes along the Russia-Kazakhstan border after a burst dam led to major flooding in the region. CNN's Isa Soares reports, anger is mounting over the government's response.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISA SOARES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Catastrophic flooding and thousands of lives upended across several regions in Russia, forcing many to evacuate with just their pets and a handful of belongings. At least three people are reported to have died so far. Authorities declared a state of emergency in the Orenburg region near Kazakhstan after the Ural, Europe's third longest river swelled several meters and burst through a dam embankment in Orsk, a city of more than 200,000 residents.
 
The anger there was palpable on Monday with protesters chanting shame on you at local officials and Putin help for (ph) the government's response. No one is helping us here, a man in this crowd shouts. The state is doing nothing he says. The city mayor said the flood has now peaked according to Russian State News Agency TASS. And the Kremlin spokesperson described the deluge in these regions as inevitable due to an abnormal increase in water levels.
 
Dmitry Peskov also said that President Vladimir Putin is currently not planning on visiting the affected areas. Across the border, in Kazakhstan, the country's president said the floods were his country's worst natural disaster in decades. In Russia, the country's emergency situations minister flew over somewhat the flooded zones on Tuesday to inspect the damage. And over in the Kurgan region, melting ice and torrential rains caused another river to overflow.
 
This is not a joke, the regional governor says bluntly. Leave, take your papers, valuables, children, elderly relatives with limited mobility. You need to do this now, he says.
 
Flood waters in Kurgan are expected to rise even higher over the next 48 hours, putting thousands more lives at risk and wreaking even more havoc.
 
Isa Soares, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:40:10] CHURCH: Across much of the U.S., you might hear more than just crickets and birds this spring. After years of living underground, trillions of cicadas are expected to invade parts of the Midwestern and Eastern U.S. this year. That's because not one, but two broods are emerging this spring, something that hasn't happened since 1803. And when they come up, be ready for all the noise.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EVA LAMPERT, PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF NORTH GEORGIA: So, in entomology, we call this a chorus. It is just hundreds of thousands of males per square acre -- like literally in somebody's yard, there is thousands and thousands of them, all singing to attract a mate at the same time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The cicadas could start appearing as early as this month.
 
In Taiwan, a playful Labrador Retriever, who flunked out of the police academy, has captured the hearts of people struggling in the aftermath of last week's earthquake. Rodger was too friendly and playful to become a drug sniffing dog, but his intelligence and personality made him a great rescue dog. He has played a crucial role in the quake's recovery efforts. According to Taiwan's Central News Agency, Rodger and his handlers found the body of a missing 21-year-old woman. This isn't Rodger's first quake mission. He has worked on seven operations since 2018, but the eight-year-old retriever may be retiring soon as most rescue dogs are sent to a suitable home when they turn nine.
 
And finally, scrabble is one of the most beloved board games on the market. But, is it too challenging and competitive for a younger generation? Mattel is releasing a new version of the game called "Scrabble Together" for sale in Europe. One side of the board is the original game, the other side is a "less intimidating version." Instead of competing, players collaborate on words. There are also helper cards if players get stuck. Mattel says, its research shows younger players just aren't as ruthless as they used to be, not like the boomers. I'll go with the original.
 
Thanks so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. "World Sport" is coming up next. Then, I will be back in 15 minutes with more CNN NEWSROOM. Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)