Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Harris and Trump Campaign in Battleground States; Biden Backtracks After Seeming to Call Trump Supporters "Garbage"; Trump and Harris Tied in Pennsylvania in New CNN Poll; Almost 55 Million Ballots Cast So, Far; Iran to Take "Definitive and Painful" Response; Israel, U.S., and Lebanon Works on Short-Term Ceasefire for Lebanon; At least 95 Killed in Spain Due to Flash Floods; N. Korea "Likely to Ask" for Nuclear Technology from Russia; Some N. Korean Troops Already in Ukraine; Trump Speaking in Wisconsin; Harris and Trump Clash on Immigration Policy; Immigration Policy is Urban Policy; New York Yankees Wins Game 4 Over Dodgers; Halloween a Big Business in the U.S.. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 30, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  -- Yankees. But if the Dodgers win tonight, they win the World Series effectively banning all Yankees fans from at least a 
 
 happy subway ride home.
 
You can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, Threads, X, formerly known as Twitter, and on the TikTok, @jaketapper. You can follow the show on X, 
 
 @TheLeadCNN.
 
If you ever miss an episode of The Lead, you can listen to the show whence you get your podcasts. The news continues now on CNN with Wolf Blitzer in 
 
 The Situation Room. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  It's 6:00 a.m. in Taipei, 7:00 a.m. in Seoul, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move" as always. And here's today's need to know. Biden backlash. Kamala Harris says she's aiming to be a leader for 
 
 all after controversial comments from the president about Trump supporters. Regime retaliation, Iran's response to Israeli strikes could come before 
 
 the U.S. election and will be, quote, "definitive and painful," according to a source.
 
Trading tech for troops, South Korea suggests Kim Jong Un may want nuclear technology in exchange for sending soldiers to help Russia. And a pinstripe 
 
 pipe dream. The New York Yankees give themselves a sporting chance in the World Series with victory over the L.A. Dodgers. All that and plenty more 
 
 coming up.
 
But first, it's now six days until the U.S. presidential election and the Harris campaign in some degree of damage control following controversial 
 
 comments from President Joe Biden. Just listen to what the president had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  And just the other day, a speaker at his rally called Puerto Rico a floating island of garbage. Well, let me tell you 
 
 something, I don't know the Puerto Rican that I know, or Puerto Rico where I'm -- in my home state of Delaware. They're good, decent, honorable 
 
 people. The only garbage I see floating out there is his supporters. His demonization is seen as unconscionable. And it's un-American. It's totally 
 
 contrary to everything we've done, everything we've been.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Biden later clarified his remarks saying he was referring only to a racist joke made about Puerto Rico at a recent Trump rally. But of 
 
 course, the vice president has been asked about these comments and here's how she's been responding.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  I think that, first of all, he clarified his comments, but let 
 
 me be clear. I strongly disagree with any criticism of people based on who they vote for. You heard my speech last night and continuously throughout 
 
 my career. I believe that the work that I do is about representing all the people, whether they support me or not.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  The former president not losing an opportunity to tie Harris to Biden's comments, suggesting they view Trump supporters as, quote, 
 
 "evil."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Joe Biden finally said what he and Kamala really think of our supporters. 
 
 He called them garbage. And they mean it. Even though, without question, my supporters are far higher quality than Crooked Joe or Lying Kamala.
 
My response to Joe and Kamala is very simple, you can't lead America if you don't love Americans. Joe Biden's comments were the direct result of 
 
 Kamala's and Tim Walz's.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Meanwhile, a new CNN poll shows Harris and Trump tied in must win Pennsylvania. Harris maintaining a narrow lead in swing states, 
 
 Michigan and Wisconsin. Stephen Collinson joins us now. Stephen, these Biden comments, some might suggest they pale in comparison to some of the 
 
 rhetoric thrown around on the Trump campaign over the last few weeks, but like it or not, this is arguably an insult to 75 million Americans. It's a 
 
 gift at this moment to the Trump campaign. It also gives Harris, as she's utilized, an opportunity to distance herself from Biden and say, look, I 
 
 disagree, and I'm a leader for all.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  That's right. These comments aren't going to decide the election. And you're right. Donald 
 
 Trump recently called America a garbage can and no one notice such as the torrent of insults and wild rhetoric that comes out of his mouth.
 
I think the impact of this though is that for three days everybody was talking about that wild hate field rally that Trump held at Madison Square 
 
 Garden in New York on Sunday, that stopped this conversation and that was beneficial to Trump because there was good evidence that it was really 
 
 hurting him in key areas of Pennsylvania. That key swing state where our poll today showed they're tied up.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
So, it certainly was an opening for Trump. He leapt all over it. And we know that he plays the politics of victimization very well. It's part of 
 
 the foundation of his political appeal. And he likes to find things that keep his supporters angry to drive them to the polls.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, but you're right. Your point is very accurate, I think. And it sucked all the oxygen away from that rally at the weekend and moved 
 
 the conversation on. Harris' campaign will certainly welcome those latest CNN poll numbers, as we mentioned, Michigan and Wisconsin seemingly to pull 
 
 ahead. It's marginal, but it is now outside of the margin of error. Still work to do in Pennsylvania, which is, of course, where Harris was speaking 
 
 today.
 
COLLINSON:  Yes, if she can win Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan and add that key electoral vote in Nebraska, she will win the presidency. She 
 
 wouldn't have to worry about North Carolina or Georgia or Nevada.
 
And the Harris campaign believes that, first of all, she can do that, and also that they have other routes to the 270 electoral votes needed to be 
 
 present. Having said that, I can't remember an election, maybe 2004 was the last time, when all of the key states were very, very close. And you could 
 
 construct a scenario where it could go either way on election night.
 
So, you know, I don't think anybody will see those polls in the Harris campaign and breathe a sigh of relief. This is a tossup. I think when both 
 
 campaigns say that, I think they're telling the truth, notwithstanding the fact that both of them are talking fairly confidently that they believe 
 
 they have the path to the presidency.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, peak uncertainty for campaigns, for voters, and for commentators as well. You made a brilliant comment yesterday on the show 
 
 talking about the sticker shock and the fact that an average household in the United States is paying $1,100, approximately more, per month for 
 
 household goods. The data actually shows that now household incomes on average of caught up, but there was a big gap where incomes weren't keeping 
 
 up with rising prices.
 
Stephen, we got better than expected jobs data today. Arguably, the jobs markets accelerating, the solid economic growth, it's fueled by the 
 
 consumer. Is the good data too little too late to change the minds of perhaps undecided voters?
 
COLLINSON:  And gas prices are down as well -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes.
 
COLLINSON:  -- which is maybe the most tangible impact that people feel from the economy on their wallets. I do find it difficult to believe that 
 
 people who have made a decision that the economy is not working for them are going to go to the polls and think, well, gas prices are a little 
 
 lower, I'm going to vote for Harris.
 
You know, this is why inflation is such a scourge for politicians, why they fear it so much, because the financial and psychological impact that it has 
 
 upon voters is so great that it's difficult to shift. We've seen voters, not just in the United States but around the world, punish their 
 
 politicians for the spike in inflation after the pandemic, and it's something that takes a long time to go away.
 
Having said that, you know, it always used to be conventional wisdom that the economy and economics decide U.S. elections. Given the tribal nature of 
 
 American politics these days over the last decade or so, I think that's less true than it used to be, even though the economy is still the most 
 
 important issue in most of the polls.
 
So, I think voters are weighing a few more things. And the fact you have Donald Trump on the ballot, this, aberrant character, if you like, in 
 
 American history, there's been no president or presidential candidate like him in modern American memory. I think that scrambles a lot of these 
 
 calculations as well.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. And one good economic snapshot does not make up for three years of pain, which for the average household, I think has been the fact 
 
 to your point. Stephen Collinson, always great to have you on the show. Sir, thank you.
 
Now, almost 55 million ballots have already been cast ahead of Election Day, more than 3 million of those, in fact, in Georgia, a state record. The 
 
 Atlanta Journal Constitution recently breaking down the demographics of people who voted to vote too, over half are white with teens and 20 
 
 somethings making up the biggest age group.
 
The state still leans Republican, though Joe Biden won it, if you remember, very famously by an incredibly narrow margin just four years ago. So, all 
 
 to play for. Tia Mitchell is the Washington correspondent for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, and she joins us now.
 
Tia, what are people saying about why these people are voting early and making this choice to go ahead and vote in record numbers this time around?
 
TIA MITCHELL, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT, ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION:  Yes, well, I think that Georgia voters have been receiving nonstop messages for 
 
 months about how important their vote is. They know they're a battleground state. They know that the outcome of the election in Georgia could 
 
 influence who ultimately becomes president. So, when you've got those messages over and over again, it sends you the message. It's important to 
 
 vote.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
Let's go ahead and get our votes cast. I think there's even an incentive. People know that if they are in the system as already have been voted, 
 
 maybe they'll get a few more, a few fewer text messages and e-mails soliciting their vote.
 
So, I just think that there's just a lot of a lot of energy around getting out and voting early. Republicans before where they kind of dismiss some 
 
 methods of early voting, that's been reinforced by both parties now. And so, I think that all has contributed to the record early voting turnout.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. I love that. I love the idea that people are literally being bombarded by all the advertising and it's just like, please make it 
 
 stop. OK. I'll go to the polls, which is, of course, exactly what the campaigns want.
 
Some of your data is quite interesting though, it suggests that more than half a million people in Georgia that didn't vote in the presidential 
 
 election four years ago have actually cast a ballot in the early voting this month. So, again, do you think it's this advertising push that's 
 
 actually making those that didn't vote so many of them four years ago vote this time around, or do you think that's partly to do with the candidates 
 
 that we're talking about and whether it's deciding to vote for Harris or vote for Trump or prevent one or the other from winning because the margin 
 
 was, what, less than 12,000 votes four years ago? It was that close.
 
MITCHELL:  Absolutely. I definitely think that candidates matter. We know that Donald Trump creates very emotional reactions either for him or 
 
 against him. And there -- there's a lot of people who feel strongly that he should return to the White House or feel strongly that he should not return 
 
 to the White House. And I think that's definitely a motivating factor.
 
And then the historic candidacy of Kamala Harris becoming the first woman of color to be on the candidate for a major party, only the second woman to 
 
 be the major party's candidate on the general election ballot. So, you know, I think there are people who, as we've seen, weren't as enthusiastic 
 
 about voting. We've even gone back and found some voters who haven't voted since, oh, wait, when Obama was on the ballot, who have voted in this 
 
 election.
 
And again, I think 2020 also sent a message to Georgia voters that it will be close and that every vote will count.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, your vote actually really matters in this case. And certainly, plenty of emotions sloshing around with these two candidates and 
 
 the campaigns. Tia, great to chat to you. Thank you.
 
OK. Moving on. Israel's attacks on Iran over the weekend will be met with a definitive and painful, quote, "response." That's according to a source 
 
 familiar with the matter. Although the source did not provide an exact date for the attack, they did say it will probably take place before the day of 
 
 the U.S. presidential election.
 
Iran's supreme leader had initially signaled the response would be measured. This, as Israeli officials tell CNN, Israel, the U.S., and 
 
 Lebanon are pursuing a ceasefire deal that would stop the fighting with Hezbollah for at least a month. Jeremy Diamond has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Israeli American and Lebanese officials are now stepping up their discussions to try and reach a 
 
 ceasefire agreement that would end the war between Israel and Hezbollah. Two top advisers to President Biden set to arrive in Israel on Thursday to 
 
 meet with Israeli officials to discuss the state of those ceasefire negotiations, and it comes as we're learning of one of the options on the 
 
 table here, which would involve getting to a short-term ceasefire agreement, perhaps at least a month between these two sides in order to 
 
 give more space for longer-term negotiations to reach a permanent solution to this conflict between Israel and Hezbollah, as well as the enforcement 
 
 of Resolution 1701, which resolved the 2006 war between those two parties that would see Hezbollah withdraw its forces some 30 kilometers north of 
 
 the Israel-Lebanon border.
 
Israeli officials believe that now is the right time to pursue this kind of a ceasefire agreement. They've achieved enormous gains in their fight 
 
 against Hezbollah in recent months. That ground operation has now been going on for about a month as well. And there is now the option, they 
 
 believe, of the military pressure and the internal Lebanese pressure bringing Hezbollah to the table in a way that the Israelis would see as 
 
 favorable.
 
That being said, it is still early days in terms of these negotiations, and Israel is also making clear that for the time being at least, they are 
 
 going to continue to negotiate under fire, as one Israeli official told me. And that is to say, we've seen the Israeli military stepping up its strikes 
 
 inside of Lebanon.
 
On Wednesday, we saw the Baalbek -- the City of Baalbek in Eastern Lebanon, was ordered to evacuate by the Israeli military. And hours later, we saw 
 
 some very intense airstrikes happening within that very city.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
Now, as we're seeing these cease fire negotiations seemingly advancing, or at least taking place regarding the conflict in Lebanon, Iran is now 
 
 separately vowing a new wave of retaliation against Israel for Israel's strikes, retaliatory strikes in Iran last weekend.
 
A high-level Iranian source now telling my colleague Fred Pleitgen that the response of the Islamic Republic of Iran will be, quote, "definitive and 
 
 painful." That comes after Iranian officials had seemed to downplay that Israeli retaliation. So, some uncertainty still about the scale and the 
 
 scope of Iran's retaliation and when it might come.
 
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thanks to Jeremy there. Now, Spain saying at least 95 people have lost their lives due to flash flooding in the southeastern part of the 
 
 nation. In Valencia, more than a year's worth of rain has fallen in less than a day. Spain's prime minister is warning people to remain vigilant 
 
 with more rain now in the forecast. Atika Shubert has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ATIKA SHUBERT, CNN JOURNALIST (voice-over):  Muddy waters gush through the streets of Spain, ripping through homes, leaving a trail of destruction 
 
 behind.
 
Rescue services are working tirelessly, trying to save residents from flash floods that have struck parts of southern and eastern Spain since Tuesday. 
 
 The severity of the weather has killed dozens of people, according to authorities, with torrential rain in many cities. And the death toll is 
 
 only expected to rise.
 
SHUBERT:  Now, this is the Turia Riverbed in Valencia. Normally, it's a dry riverbed with hardly any water in it, but as of this morning, the water was 
 
 nearly to the top. And that's because, according to meteorologists, a year's worth of rain, about 20 inches or 500 millimeters, was dropped here 
 
 in an eight-hour period that ended on Tuesday.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over):  In Valencia, Spain's emergency military unit were deployed to help save locals waiting through the destruction to reach them 
 
 and bringing them to safety. One local resident witnessed the severity of the water destroying his neighborhood.
 
ANTONIO CARMONA, RESIDENT (through translator):  We saw everything going down. The floods took cars, took down half the house of one of our 
 
 neighbors, and we had to come in. Look how we have our torn clothes because we were saving dogs.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over):  In other areas of Southern Spain, a different kind of catastrophe took place with locals being hit by a severe hailstorm.
 
Look at the size of this ball, this person says. It's completely round.
 
Leaving drivers to battle through extreme weather.
 
Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said the storms were the worst the country has experienced in the last century and advised citizens to proceed 
 
 with caution.
 
PEDRO SANCHEZ, SPANISH PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  Our absolute priority is to help you. We are going to provide all the necessary means 
 
 today and tomorrow and for as long as it takes so that we can recover from this tragedy. We are not going to leave you alone.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over):  Scientists say a human caused climate crisis is making extreme weather more frequent and more severe. And as the world 
 
 warms, more intense and more frequent catastrophes are on the horizon.
 
Atika Shubert, CNN, Valencia, Spain.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, there's been an ominous warning from South Korea's defense minister about North Korea's military involvement with Russia in 
 
 Ukraine.
 
During a meeting Wednesday at the Pentagon with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary Lloyd Austin, the minister stared through a translator, there is 
 
 a, quote, "high possibility" North Korea will ask Russia for advanced technology relating to nuclear weapons. This would carve an exchange, he 
 
 said, for the deployment of Pyongyang's troops to help Russia.
 
There are reports that a small number of North Korean troops are already inside Ukraine. U.S. President Joe Biden has called the situation 
 
 dangerous. Oren Liebermann is at the Pentagon for us. Oren, the challenge here, of course, is that the intelligence suggests, as I mentioned there, 
 
 that North Korean troops are already, not only in Moscow, but now operating in Ukraine.
 
I guess the question is he suggesting that this request for technology tied to nuclear weaponry may have already happened, or that it could still come?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  This is something both the U.S. and South Korea are watching very closely and sharing intelligence on 
 
 very closely. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke alongside his South Korean counterpart, Minister Kim Yong-hyun at the Pentagon earlier today.
 
And this has been one of the key questions, what does North Korea get in exchange for providing more manpower, essentially more bodies to what very 
 
 much looks like Russia's war effort? And both were careful here. Austin wouldn't go sort of into speculating on this area or say what intelligence 
 
 he has seen, but Minister Kim did.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
And he said, look, Russia is very likely to help North Korea with its tactical ballistic missiles or nuclear missiles -- nuclear weapons, I 
 
 should say, it's intercontinental ballistic missiles, it's satellite technology, more of the space where we have seen North Korea trying to push 
 
 forward here.
 
The agreement therefore looks very similar to the one between Russia and Iran that we have seen take shape and grow over the course of the past 
 
 couple of years here. And that is Iran provides ballistic missiles. Iran provides drones. And Russia comes back with technology and helps Iran in 
 
 the areas of weaponry where it's trying to advance.
 
So, South Korean Minister Kim suggested we are likely to see that relationship here. Now, even he hedged in terms of not saying yet that this 
 
 is already happening, he wouldn't be incredibly definitive here, but he says it's very likely to be the sort of relationship that we see developing 
 
 moving forward here.
 
South Korea has very much upped its intelligence sharing here on this specific point with the U.S. So, you are likely to see the two, in terms of 
 
 what they're willing to say publicly, move very closely together here.
 
Meanwhile, two western intelligence officials say That a small number of North Korean troops are already inside of Ukraine. The U.S. hasn't said 
 
 that publicly yet, but it has pushed forward and advanced in what it's willing to say. It went from 3,000 troops from North Korea into Russia to 
 
 training last week. It's already at 10,000 in Russia training and those troops are already moving towards the battlefield in Western Russia or 
 
 Eastern Ukraine.
 
The Pentagon said earlier this week that they're likely to go to the Kursk region. That is where Ukraine had a successful offensive and gained control 
 
 of some Russian territory there. So, the U.S. saying they're likely to be used there. But this is obviously a space the U.S. and South Korea are 
 
 watching very closely because of the implications, not only in Ukraine, but frankly, on the other side of Asia as well. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and an appropriate quote from U.S. President Joe Biden in this regard, calling the situation dangerous. Oren, good to have you on the 
 
 show. Thank you. Oren Liebermann there.
 
Straight ahead, fewer immigrants, weaker U.S. growth. A new study says urban America has a lot to lose under a second Trump term.
 
Plus, tech torrent Microsoft and Meta out with closely watched earnings results. Investors, not that happy. We'll break down the numbers after 
 
 this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And I want to take you to the battleground U.S. State of Wisconsin, where the Former President Donald 
 
 Trump has just started to speak from what appears to be a garbage truck. Let's listen in.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  All right. Guys, guys, guys. Cool camera. Cool camera. Right here. Keep coming. Nice.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  President Trump, you said the other that (INAUDIBLE).
 
TRUMP:  Any questions?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Sir, RFK Jr. said that you promised (INAUDIBLE) accurate?
 
TRUMP:  I can't -- you have to speak louder.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Sir, RFK Jr. said that you promised him control of public health agencies if you were to win. Is that accurate?
 
TRUMP:  Well, we'll work with him, and he's a very talented guy. He wants women's health. He wants health for people. And we're going to work with 
 
 him. He's a very, very talented guy. He's a friend of mine.
 
I think the Democrats have done a very poor job. We're leading in every state. We're leading big. And I think that the comment made by really both 
 
 of them, because there are really two of them, about being garbage, maybe 250 million people, they shouldn't be talking. That's like deplorable for 
 
 Hillary -- this is the deplorable for Hillary. And I think this is worse, actually. For Joe Biden to make that statement, it's really a disgrace.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  President Trump, you said other day that the military could be used? That the military (INAUDIBLE) on Election Day in necessary. 
 
 Can you clarify what you mean by that and (INAUDIBLE)?
 
TRUMP:  I don't think they'll have to be used. I think we're going to have a big victory. And I think 250 million people in this country are going to 
 
 be very happy because we're going to bring the country back. We're a nation in decline. Very, very serious decline. And we're going to bring our 
 
 country back.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Did you know that Elon Musk was in close contact with President Putin? Did you know about this? Did you know about Elon Musk at 
 
 all being (INAUDIBLE)?
 
TRUMP:  No, I don't know. Elon is a great guy. He's one of our geniuses, and we have to protect our geniuses. We have to take care of our geniuses.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Mr. President, there's a report that you -- 
 
TRUMP:  Far are too many of them. Yes, please.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Do you own the people of Puerto Rico an apology for what the comedian said?
 
TRUMP:  Oh, I love Puerto Rico and Puerto Rico loves me. I don't know. I don't know anything about a comedian. I just -- I love Puerto Rico. 
 
 Nobody's done more for Puerto Rico than me. I took care of them when they had the big hurricanes. And nobody gets along better with Puerto Rico and 
 
 the Puerto Rican people than me. They love me and I love them.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (INAUDIBLE).
 
TRUMP:  What do I what?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (INAUDIBLE)?
 
TRUMP:  I don't know anything about the comedian. I don't know who he is. I've never seen him. I heard he made a statement, but it was just a 
 
 statement that he made. He's a comedian, what can I tell you? I know nothing about him. I don't know why he's there. If you put comedians up, 
 
 and I guess he went on earlier in the show. I don't know who he is.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Do you think Bannon (INAUDIBLE) with you? Is this Steve Bannon going to campaign with you now that he's out of prison?
 
TRUMP:  I don't know, but I think he's a terrific guy. I think he was treated very unfairly.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Mr. President, you've been talking about Democrats cheating. Could you imagine any circumstances under which you would be 
 
 defeated but not say that the election was stolen?
 
TRUMP:  If it was a corrupt election, that could happen. But so far, we're doing pretty well. We they found a lot of smaller things in Pennsylvania, 
 
 as you know, and I think they've been corrupted and taken care of. They were corrupt. They were corrupted. And -- but I think it's been taken care 
 
 of.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  On that (INAUDIBLE) you called for law enforcement to investigate.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I was going to say, do you anticipate to declare victory on election night?
 
TRUMP:  I hope that we're going to declare a victory. I mean, they spend all that money on machines. Paper ballots cost you 8 percent of what a 
 
 machine cost. 8 percent. And it's encrypted paper, it's watermarked paper, it's very secure. Your elections would be over at 10:00, and that's when 
 
 the -- you can announce something and there would be no question. And we're not talking about more money, we're talking about a tiny fraction of the 
 
 money. You want paper, ideally, you want one day voting, and I think it's just very important. You have to have the country and you have to have 
 
 voter I.D. and you have a great election. And you're talking about 8 percent of the cost.
 
It's like very sad when you get machines, you pay all that money and they talk about three days later. I think we're going to have a big enough 
 
 victory to maybe have it that night. You should always have it built -- you know every night. If you look at France 38 million votes, at 10:00 in the 
 
 evening it was over. All paper ballots, all voter I.D., one day voting and it was over.
 
How do you like my garbage truck? This truck is in honor of Kamala and Joe Biden.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  President Trump, do you asked for law enforcement to investigate in Pennsylvania? If they find no evidence of cheating, will you 
 
 accept the result if you lose?
 
TRUMP:  Well, I guess they had quite a few ballots, 2,600 ballots with the same person who signed them.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But if they find no evidence of cheating, will you accept the results?
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
TRUMP:  If (INAUDIBLE). Oh, if they find no evidence of cheating anywhere else, I hope that's going to be the case. Win, lose, or draw, I hope that's 
 
 going to be the case.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Sir, (INAUDIBLE).
 
TRUMP:  Now, listen, I have to do something because Brett Favre is a great guy. We just endorsed him. And he's very important at this moment. I mean, 
 
 you know, he's got a little problem for himself. And I thought it was very brave that he came out. And I want to go over and see Brett Favre. We're 
 
 all going together, I assume. You're going over. I'm going to make a speech. We're going to then try and beat the weather out because we have 
 
 some bad weather coming in. But I just wanted to let you know that 250 million people, that's what I think the real number is for making America 
 
 great again. 250 million, the real number.
 
They don't think in terms of garbage, OK? They don't use terms like that, and it's a shame. And Joe Biden should be ashamed of himself, if he knows 
 
 what he's even doing. And she should be ashamed because she shouldn't let him do it. She's the vice president, but I assume she's acting as the 
 
 president. She should never have let that happen. I hope you enjoyed this garbage truck. Thank you very much.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  The former president there in Green Bay, Wisconsin, sitting in the passenger seat of a garbage truck, utilizing the opportunity of the 
 
 comments made by President Joe Biden, suggesting that Trump supporters were garbage. He also said that it reminds him of the deplorables comment that 
 
 Hillary Clinton made before the presidential election back in 2016. She called half of Trump supporters a basket of deplorables, if you remember.
 
One of the journalists challenged him about the comedian that was at his own rally in New York and referred to Puerto Rico as an island of floating 
 
 garbage. He said, I don't know the comedian. If you invite a comedian to your own rally. He's sort of distanced himself from those comments. He said 
 
 he loves Puerto Rico and Puerto Rico loves him. He was also asked if he would accept the election result on November 5th or when we get an election 
 
 result. He said as long as they find no evidence of any cheating anywhere, he will accept the result. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And back to the U.S. Election. We can't escape it. A hot topic for both candidates and their campaigns, 
 
 immigration. Former President Donald Trump just this week continuing his attack on what he calls the Biden-Harris failure to secure the border and 
 
 curb illegal immigration.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
TRUMP:  Her borders are the worst in the history of the world. There's never been a border in the world like this. I always say in third world 
 
 countries, banana republics, they'd fight them away with sticks and stones if they had to. We let them come in, come on in. Knowing, in many cases, 
 
 they're murderers, they're drug lords, they're traitors in so many ways to our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, the Trump campaign is also proposing a host of limits to legal immigration, including limiting visas for both skilled and unskilled 
 
 workers, and further restricting the entry of refugees and asylum seekers.
 
Meanwhile, Kamala Harris faults Trump for killing a recent bipartisan border bill in Congress and says she remains committed to finding a longer-
 
 term fix.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  We need to strengthen the border and put more resources at the border, which is why I support the bipartisan bill that Donald Trump 
 
 killed. I will do the work also about ensuring that we pass comprehensive immigration reform in a way that we allow hard working people who have 
 
 earned citizenship a path to actually be able to gain citizenship because they have earned it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, the last time Congress passed comprehensive immigration reform was back in 1986. Today, one in seven U.S. residents was born 
 
 abroad, according to Brookings Institution. The number of immigrants also represent more than 20 percent of the population in some of the major 
 
 cities like New York, Miami, and Boston, and 22 percent of urban counties. Brookings argues that immigrants strengthen cities and contribute a wide 
 
 array of unique skills to the broader U.S. economy and would be missed.
 
Alan Berube is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, and he joins us now. Alan, fantastic to have you with us. The biggest issue I see in 
 
 this debate is that there isn't enough distinction between illegal and legal immigration. The Trump campaign's made it clear it wants less of 
 
 both, but what's clear from your report is the sheer importance of immigrants, particularly to these major cities and large counties.
 
ALAN BERUBE, NONRESIDENT SENIOR FELLOW, BROOKING INSTITUTION:  Yes, I think the Former President Trump's promise to round up and deport and estimated 
 
 11 million unauthorized migrants in the United States has grabbed most of the headlines. But as you said they have plans to limit immigration of all 
 
 kinds in the United States. And given the fact that so many immigrants, both legal, illegal, temporary, high skilled, really immigrants of all 
 
 kinds are concentrated in America's major cities and urban centers, I think the Trump and GOP agenda on immigration could be a severe blow to the 
 
 economics and the demographics of those places.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And we have a chart to show this from your report, a third of those people that we consider immigrants not born in the United States have 
 
 at least a degree. We're not just talking about people that perhaps never finished school, a significant chunk of these people are highly skilled and 
 
 operating in the United States and arguably adding to the economy and output.
 
BERUBE:  Yes, I think it's no coincidence, Julia, that some of the most dynamic urban economies in the United States today, New York, San 
 
 Francisco, Boston, Seattle, Miami, these are the places that also have very, very high shares of their populations who were born outside the 
 
 United States.
 
If you look at San Diego, for instance, 37 percent of its foreign-born individuals have at least a college degree. Many of them have a graduate 
 
 degree. And that's a principal reason that San Diego is one of the major centers of biotechnology in the United States is that high skilled foreign 
 
 labor.
 
CHATTERLEY:  So, the counter to this and to the fact that immigrants represent around a third of the growth in populations in cities, some 
 
 cities over the last two decades is there are stealing American jobs, you just mentioned high skill area of San Diego. One could also argue that 
 
 otherwise there would have been population decline. But then one could argue that there would be less stretched services, for example. Alan, 
 
 what's your response to that?
 
BERUBE:  Yes, well, I actually have colleagues at the Brookings Institution who have looked at the potential impacts on the economy of Trump's 
 
 immigration plans versus Vice President Harris' immigration plans, if neither of them were to take office, and they estimate that given those 
 
 policy proposals, the Trump administration -- another Trump administration could reduce the overall size of the economy by about $130 billion dollars 
 
 just in 2025, relative to what would happen in a Harris administration.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
So, it's simply not the case that by taking away foreign labor that, you know, the native-born residents can just move into all of those jobs and 
 
 grow the economy in the same way. Immigrants and native-born individuals are as economists would call compliments in the labor market. The presence 
 
 of one strengthens the other.
 
CHATTERLEY:  So, the overriding message from this -- and it is a fascinating report is be clear on measures to address illegal immigration 
 
 and don't conflate the two issues with legal immigration that you're arguing is necessary for the advancement of the U.S. economy.
 
BERUBE:  Yes, and I think both Trump and Harris have plans -- again, different magnitudes to step up border enforcement, to strengthen 
 
 deportation policies, even to limit some asylum claims. But really, my argument in the report is, if the leaders of America's major cities and 
 
 counties, urban counties, if they hope to preserve the vitality of their places, their population growth, their economics, their culture, I think 
 
 they have to have very grave concerns about the anti-immigration, anti- immigrant agenda, in particular, that Former President Trump promises to carry out if he prevails next week.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. I think the phrase is don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. Alan Berube, great to have you on. Sir, thank you, from the 
 
 Brookings Institution there.
 
BERUBE:  Thank you so much, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. Coming up here on "First Move," a nail-biting night for the World Series as the New York Yankees hope for a miracle comeback 
 
 against the L.A. Dodgers. We'll have a report live from Yankee Stadium.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's another big night in baseball. World Series fans are expected to gather once again in Tokyo to cheer on their favorite. Japanese 
 
 baseball lovers are really rooting for Shohei Ohtani and the L.A. Dodgers. The 30-year-old pitcher already has national hero status after playing in 
 
 his homeland. But many outside Japan now consider Ohtani the best active baseball player in the world, leading to comparisons with the legendary 
 
 Babe Ruth.
 
Baseball is a game of statistics, and for the New York Yankees, they're hoping to make a history making comeback that would defy all odds, I think, 
 
 with this Grand Slam. The Yankees pulled off a win against the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 4, cutting the series deficit to three and one.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
If the Yankees win Game 5 tonight, the series does move to L.A and that would be the first time in World Series history, a team that was down 0-3 
 
 would force a game number at six. Omar Jimenez is at the Yankee Stadium, the worst job in the world, not. We had ball thievery last night. We had 
 
 big drama. The question is, will the Dodgers fans be delighted with the score tonight, Omar?
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Look, that's what they're hoping for right now. There's a lot on the line on both sides of things at this point. 
 
 Obviously, the Yankees are really fighting for their lives, to stay alive, to keep those World Series hopes alive. The Dodgers are hoping to end this 
 
 as quickly as possible.
 
Now, obviously, Look, last game, yes, a big story was the Yankees found some offense after struggling over the course of this series, but another 
 
 aspect of it, too, were these two fans that really interfered in a way much further than we typically see with fan interference in Major League 
 
 Baseball. The ball goes over the right side, right fielder Mookie Betts for the Dodgers tries to grab it. It's not just fan interference, but one fan 
 
 literally grabs Mookie Betts' wrist while another fan tries to pull the ball out of his glove. Those two fans have now been banned from this game 
 
 by Major League Baseball and the Yankees.
 
I want to read a little bit of what the Yankees have said as part of this. Tonight marks the final home game of the year, and we want every ounce of 
 
 our fans' passion on display. Yankee Stadium is known for its energy and intensity, however, the exuberance of supporting one's team can never cross 
 
 the line into intentionally putting players at physical risk.
 
And even Mookie Betts said, look, they weren't hurt, I wasn't hurt, let's continue to play baseball. And that's the big aspect of this. We still got 
 
 a baseball game to play. Take a listen to what Yankees' manager Aaron Boone, how he is preparing for the game today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AARON BOONE, NEW YORK YANKEES MANAGER:  We just showed up today, ready to play and, you know, we're trying to get one, you know, and trying to get 
 
 the -- trying to get it to tomorrow, you know. You don't even get ahead of yourself and start thinking about the series. It's like our guys were ready 
 
 to play.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ:  And look, we're getting down to it. Batting practice is over for both teams. We are closing down on the first pace that will be thrown out 
 
 by Yankees legend Hideki Matsui, who won a title with the team back in 2009.
 
And you talked about it before coming to me, it's not just people in the United States that are going to be watching, we have millions in Japan that 
 
 have tuned into every aspect of this game, not just for Shohei Ohtani, who I think is indisputably the best player in Major League Baseball right now, 
 
 but also their pitcher as well.
 
So, there are a lot of Yamamoto's is the picture. There are a lot of aspects and a lot of eyes on this game. Again, Yankees hoping they can do 
 
 what no team has ever done before, no team has ever come back from 3-0 to win a World Series. No team has ever come back from 3-0 to get a Game 6 in 
 
 this World Series. Dodgers, they're hoping it ends here tonight.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Is tonight the night though? We'll see. Looking forward to the match. Match of the game. There we go. I've got the terminology 
 
 right. Omar, great to see you. Have fun. We're back after this. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back. And if you're just waking up to us in Asia, may I be the first to wish you a very happy October 31st, aka Halloween.
 
Here's a look at the White House this hour where President Joe Biden is greeting trick or treaters, handing out goodies to children and their 
 
 families. The super spooky holiday is celebrated across much of the globe and becoming more and more popular in Asia, especially Japan, South Korea, 
 
 and Hong Kong.
 
It often overlaps too with the Day of the Dead celebrations in parts of Latin America. What you're looking at here is a costume parade that took 
 
 place in Mexico City on Sunday. Now, they know how to do it right.
 
In the United States, Halloween has been big business for decades, helping to boost -- boo-st. The bottom line. See what I did there? Americans are 
 
 expected to spend more than $11 billion dollars on costumes, candy and decorations this year. $3.5 billion on candy alone. Trick or treaters, 
 
 however, may be taking home less chocolate as cocoa prices rise to records. Shoppers have been spending more on less expensive goodies this year.
 
Mars Wrigley is one of the candy giants watching Halloween trends closely. It is the home of sugary treats, including M&amp;M's, Skittles, and Snickers 
 
 bars. Halloween is such an important holiday for the company that it has a chief Halloween officer. Yes, it does. And Tim LeBel holds that prestigious 
 
 title. He is also more importantly perhaps president of sales at Mars Wrigley. You wear two hats in this job. Fantastic to have you on the show, 
 
 sir.
 
Give us a flavor of the unique Halloween products you're showcasing this year. I do have some of them strategically placed in front of me. And what 
 
 kind of demand you've seen this year?
 
Oh, I'm sure we can hear you. Oh, can you unmute? I think you may be muted. Can we see if somebody can unmute there? No. Oh, this is good. We've got 
 
 help. Oh. Is it working?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  How about now?
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, we've got you. Happy Halloween. You heard my question. So, I'll let you -- 
 
TIM LEBEL, CHIEF HALLOWEEN OFFICER, MARS WRIGLEY U.S.:  Happy Halloween to you. Sorry about that. But very excited to be back on with you. And I was 
 
 sharing that Halloween, the core parts of our business is so critical to the season. But to your point, bringing in new items for innovation is 
 
 always important for our consumers. And at Mars, the consumer is our boss.
 
So, this year, we're introducing products like M&amp;M's milk chocolate. We have also Twix, ghoulish green. We have Skittles shriekers, pumpkin pie 
 
 flavors. So, it's always great to bring excitement to the biggest season of the year.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, that may be my favorite actually. I've been rooting around in this bucket and the green Twixes are quite fantastic. Now, 
 
 apparently, Halloween anxiety is a real thing, and it's not because of spooky costumes or scary movies, it's actually tied to fear of running out 
 
 of candy. Not apparently something that Gen Z suffers from, because apparently 36 percent of them, I read, this week by more than a month in 
 
 advance. Is that what you see in your data that more and more people are sort of buying early in order to avoid anxiety around the actual event?
 
LEBEL:  Absolutely. There's the excitement going early and certainly, the preparation going early. This year, Mars Wrigley introduced halfway to 
 
 Halloween at our Topeka headquarters, which is the Halloween headquarters, and they produced a record amount of Halloween product for us anticipating 
 
 that consumer demand.
 
But don't worry, we got you. If a consumer happens to fall just a little short on their forecast for Halloween, they can call the M&amp;M's Halloween 
 
 Rescue Squad. And we're working with Gopuff. And if you run out, we have your back. And you can call during the Halloween window, and we will 
 
 deliver Halloween products, Mars Great Treats, for free to you.
 
And there was actually two cities that actually really struggled with their forecast last year, and that was Westfield, New Jersey and Philadelphia, 
 
 Pennsylvania. So, for those two cities, not only can they dial in digitally to Gopuff, but we set up booths to help them to make sure they have our 
 
 Mars Wrigley treats there.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow. So, there's some candy and chocoholics clearly there that they need to work on their forecasting skills. Can I ask you very quickly 
 
 how important trunk-or-treating is this year? I think we've got a picture of it from my fantastic book of tenure and what she and her family did last 
 
 year. There's a Spider Man on the top of a car, it was an inflatable with people driving around and trick or treating in car trunks or boots rather 
 
 than going around houses. Is there something too, Tim?
 
LEBEL:  Absolutely. And this is where the consumers, whether you're an adult or child experiencing Halloween for the first time, where most 
 
 communities are doing two things. They're doing your traditional trick-or- treat on Halloween but they're also doing trunk-and-treat events to bring the entire community together to celebrate my personal favorite season for 
 
 sure.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I was about to say because you can fit way more candy in a trunk than perhaps you can hand out individually. So, there's a message in 
 
 there somewhere. Tim, Happy Halloween. It's one of my delights of the year to have you on, not to mention the fact that my team are going to need 
 
 really great dentists for the rest of the year. Great to chat to you, sir. Thank you.
 
LEBEL:  Well, hopefully you enjoy the treats.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Tempted.
 
LEBEL:  Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you. I will. Thank you. And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow, if I'm not in sweet 
 
 shock.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END