Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump and Harris Campaigns at Odds Over Debate Rules; Negotiators Meeting in Cairo on Gaza Ceasefire Deal; Law Lets Australians Ignore After-Hours Work Communications; British Rockers Oasis Announce 2025 Reunion Tour; San Francisco Cracks Down on Homeless Encampments; Former England Manager Sven-Goran Eriksson Dead at 76. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired August 27, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: And it's just 10 weeks to go to the election. The Trump and Harris campaigns are starting their sprint towards it. Kamala Harris and her running mate Tim Walz begin a bus tour across the battleground state of Georgia Wednesday.
 
Donald Trump continuing to hammer the Democrat so-called blue wall with trips to Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania this week. 
 
Trump hinted on Monday that he may not debate Harris as scheduled on September 10th. His campaign is complaining about her team's push to have microphones not be silenced during the debate, saying it's a violation of agreed-upon rules.
 
CNN's Eva McKend has that story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: The debate is the next race-defining moment on the political calendar. And that's why we see both campaigns trying to jockey for the best conditions possible for their respective candidates. We see the Harris campaign needling Trump, trying to get under his skin. 
 
In a statement a Harris adviser says in part: Our understanding is that Trump's handlers prefer the muted microphone because they don't think their candidate can act presidential for 90 minutes on his own.
 
And they put this up on social media, continuing to mock him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why not debate her? 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: No way. 
 
(CLUCKING CHICKEN)
 
TRUMP: But because they already know everything.
 
(CLUCKING CHICKEN) Trump's, you know, not doing the debate. 
 
(CLUCKING CHICKEN)
 
TRUMP: It's the same thing. 
 
(CLUCKING CHICKEN)
 
TRUMP: I mean, right now I say, why should I do a debate? I'm leading in the polls. And everybody knows her. 
 
(CLUCKING CHICKEN)
 
TRUMP: Everybody knows me.
 
MCKEND: But ultimately, the reason why the Harris campaign is pushing this is because they think Trump without muted mics will interject, rant, rave, air grievances, and they want that contrast up on that debate stage. Trump, separate from his advisers, though, does seem open to the idea. 
 
Meanwhile, the vice president has a lighter public schedule this week. As she prepares for that debate. In a sit down interview, she said would occur before the end of the month and a bus tour of Georgia on Wednesday and Thursday. 
 
Eva McKend, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: Now, negotiators are still meeting in Cairo on a Gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal after some progress was reported during the weekend's discussions. A U.S. official says the talks will continue for at least the next few days and all sides, including Hamas, are represented in the discussions following on specific details of the deal.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: But inside Gaza, there's been no let up to the fighting. The Palestinian civil defense says at least 16 people were killed in Israeli strikes on Monday night across the enclave, including in Gaza City and in central Gaza's al-Maghazi refugee camp. A baby and two children were amongst the victims.
 
MACFARLANE: And a senior U.N. official says aid deliveries were paused on Monday because of security risks after Israel ordered new evacuations in Deir al-Balah in central Gaza. 
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks is joining us now live from Abu Dhabi. And Paula, just on those ceasefire talks, we understand that the final details are apparently now being worked out. But that doesn't necessarily mean that there's going to be a deal anytime soon, I presume.
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Exactly, Christina, this is what we're hearing from a senior U.S. official who is familiar with these talks at this point, saying that they are talking about the final details. Specifics like the names of the Palestinian prisoners who could be released as part of the first phase of this three phase agreement. 
 
Now, we've also heard from the same official that they are talking about the nuts and bolts. But as you say, specifying that this doesn't necessarily mean that it could be imminent, that there is some kind of agreement.
 
Now, we've heard from John Kirby, from the National Security Commission, that these working level talks will continue in Cairo for the next few days. We understand, though, that the leaders of the delegations are not there at this point. So they're trying to hammer out those final deals.
 
We know one of the sticking points is the border between Gaza and Egypt, the Philadelphi corridor, where the Israeli military, we understand, would like to be stationed. And we also know that Hamas is not accepting that. 
 
What Hamas has said they have accepted at the beginning of July was the plan that the U.S. President Joe Biden had highlighted. And that was that there would be a withdrawal of Israeli troops from densely populated areas. 
 
So now the back and forth is which parts of the Philadelphi corridor are considered densely populated. And this is really the nitty gritty that that is being discussed at the working level at this point.
 
But there is still this this daily reminder of how crucial this ceasefire is when you hear about the continued Israeli airstrikes, the deaths, many over the last 24 hours in and around Gaza City. 
 
And also you have the issue of polio. We've heard from many of the medical groups WHOs involved, the U.N. groups are involved, they are trying to administer polio vaccines within Gaza itself, after there has been at least one who has tested positive for the disease, given the unsanitary conditions and devastating conditions that children are having to live in in Gaza at this point. 
 
In fact, some of those groups are saying that there desperately needs to be a ceasefire to be able to administer these vaccines, if not at least a polio pause, they say, give them seven days so that they can vaccinate Gaza's children.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
So it is just a continual reminder of how important this ceasefire is to get humanitarian aid in, to be able to release the hostages that have been held in Gaza as well since October 7 -- Max, Christina. 
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, is now so still very urgent, isn't it? Our Paula Hancocks with the latest for us there. Thank you, Paula.
 
Now a new law in Australia enshrines an employee's right to disconnect after work hours, employers can still contact their coworkers.
 
FOSTER: Yes, the workers are now legally protected if they don't respond after hours. Nine News, Chris Kohler has that story. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRIS KOHLER, NINE NEWS FINANCE EDITOR (voice-over): Stephen McGiboney works for a government agency and Steve Howland works at a big bank. Both know what it's like to be hounded by a boss. But from today, they and almost everyone else have the legal right to ignore them.
 
STEVEN HOWLAND, FINANCE WORKER: I think people's work life will get massively better. 
 
KOHLER (voice-over): The lines between work and home they say have become blurred, leading to a spike in burnout. 
 
HOWLAND: Workload just goes up and up and up. It's almost as if your employers in the finance industry expect my employer to be my religion.
 
KOHLER (voice-over): Everyone at a workplace of more than 15 people can now ignore unreasonable contact from bosses and third parties after hours with new federal laws preventing any repercussions.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You're going to get better workers.
 
KOHLER (voice-over): ACTU President Michele O'Neill has pushed for the laws. She says being disorganized is no longer an excuse to bother staff at home.
 
MICHELE O'NEILL, AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL OF TRADE UNIONS: It's about unreasonable contact. So it doesn't say that there can be no emergency contact out of hours or no way that employers and workers can be in contact. It's about if it's reasonable or not.
 
KOHLER: But it's that word reasonable. That's the problem for industry groups. They say they don't have enough clarification of what is and is not reasonable contact. And they say conflict will follow.
 
INNES WILLOX, AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY GROUP: This is going to end up in a lot of legal action. This is going to appear before the courts. And this is going to take time to work through.
 
KOHLER (voice-over): But workers say time's up. Contact outside hours shouldn't be expected and it should come at a cost.
 
STEVEN MCGIBBONY, GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE: And I think that's really important at the moment too with cost of living that when you are expecting that you might get a phone call from work, then you're being paid for that.
 
KOHLER (voice-over): For workers in small businesses, the same protections will apply from this time next year. 
 
Chris Kohler, Nine News.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) OASIS, ROCK BAND: Today is going to be the day that they're going to throw it back to you. By now, you should have somehow realized what you got to do. I don't believe that anybody feels the way I do about you now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: It is a classic, classic tune. Now, of course, it's Wonderwall by Oasis and fans will once again get the chance to hear that 90s smash hit performed live.
 
FOSTER: Yes, not my kids who probably haven't even heard of them.
 
MACFARLANE: Well, I mean, they're our generation's The Beatles, aren't they? You would think that most young people would have heard of them.
 
FOSTER: I think it's going to be an older crowd.
 
MACFARLANE: OK, maybe old crowd.
 
FOSTER: The proper music buffs, you know, there'll be fans because it's great music, isn't it?
 
MACFARLANE: Yes.
 
FOSTER: The long feuding Gallagher brothers appear to be setting aside their differences and getting the band back together for a reunion tour 15 years after they imploded. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Me and him are like telepathic, you know what I mean? I know my brother better than anybody else. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When both come together, you have greatness.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: The band posted this video online announcing tour dates next year in the U.K. and Ireland.
 
MACFARLANE: It's interesting that they've actually only just announced their U.K. dates so far, haven't they, which go on sale on Saturday. Not yet --
 
FOSTER: What's your theory, Christine?
 
MACFARLANE: -- announcing the international dates. And back to the point of the feuding brothers, it might be because they can't guarantee the brothers will last.
 
FOSTER: Hold it together just for the U.K.
 
MACFARLANE: Beyond the U.K., yes. Their stops are going to be at Manchester, Dublin, Cardiff, Edinburgh and Wembley here in London, although you're already eyeing Cardiff, right? FOSTER: Well, I wanted to be in the first one, which is Cardiff. But then I just realized I've already booked a holiday next year, which is pretty sad.
 
MACFARLANE: Oh, the life of the rich and famous. 
 
Anyway, I will be looking at the Wembley dates myself. And their continents outside of Europe are due to be on sale later this year.
 
FOSTER: And you're going for an interview?
 
MACFARLANE: Well, why not? Behind the scenes at Wembley. I'd much prefer to do something exclusive for CNN, if you're watching, rather than just being in the crowd.
 
FOSTER: You're available.
 
MACFARLANE: I am available. 
 
Now, elsewhere, the competition kicks off at the U.S. Open, with several top names looking to defend their titles. Highlights from the first round of play is still ahead.
 
FOSTER: Plus, San Francisco cracking down on homeless encampments in the wake of the California governor's executive order to dismantle them. How this is impacting unhoused people in the city, that's next.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Since Kamala Harris entered the race, Donald Trump has been looking for ways to target his new opponent. He's tried out a host of attack lines. He's also focusing on Harris' California roots, telling supporters her ultra-liberal policies will destroy the country.
 
MACFARLANE: On Monday, Trump posted on his Truth Social platform: When is Kamala Harris going to start answering questions? She's a radical left, no fracking Marxist, and the public needs to know what she stands for, which is poverty and failure for America.
 
FOSTER: Well, California is a common target for conservatives who say it's everything that's wrong with liberal politics. They're especially pointing at the staggering number of people living on the streets in the cities there.
 
MACFARLANE: Recently, California Governor Gavin Newsom issued an executive order calling on local governments to dismantle homeless encampments, and if they fail to do so, face funding cuts. CNN's Nick Watt reports on how San Francisco is responding.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK WATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You've got to go? But you know where you're going to go?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, get the dog.
 
WATT: OK. OK. OK.
 
WATT (voice-over): We are in the mission district. It's a little after 7:00 a.m.
 
WATT: Is this the first time you've been involved in one of these sweeps?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No, no. This is the first time they've been so quiet and nice.
 
WATT: Do you think you'll be in a shelter tonight?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, let's hope, yes.
 
WATT (voice-over): The Supreme Court ruled that cities can now cite, fine or jail these people, even if they have nowhere else to go.
 
MAYOR LONDON BREED, (D) SAN FRANCISCO: We have the ability to now enforce the law.
 
WATT (voice-over): Mayor London Breed introduced what she calls a very aggressive strategy. They issued around 25 citations in the first two weeks.
 
WATT: You're criminalizing something that a lot of people can't help. They don't have a lot of choice.
 
BREED: Yes. And that would be the case if we weren't offering people a place to go inside.
 
WATT: They haven't offered your shelter.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They said there's no opening for a shelter right now. There's no beds.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you need plastic bags or anything for trash?
 
WATT (voice-over): The city says no one in this morning sweep ended up in a shelter, not one.
 
WATT: So this is the afternoon sweep. We're in Soma, South of Market. The issue is this is the 34th time the city has swept this area this year alone.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
WATT (voice-over): More than 4,000 people live on San Francisco streets. There are fewer than 4,000 shelter beds and most nights, they're near full, with a waitlist of over 100.
 
WATT: Are these guys offering you a shelter bed? Is that what's going on?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, he is. WATT: He's offering you a shelter bed.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah.
 
WATT: So what are you going to do? Are you going to take it?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah, I'm going to take it. But you know what? If it's something where it's typical life, I won't do it, man. I won't do it. I stayed in prison 20, 23 years.
 
Do you really think I want to be closed up in a room with bars and (EXPLETIVE DELETED) in it? No, I don't think so. I'd rather sleep outside.
 
WATT (voice-over): Since the Supreme Court's decision, cities and towns in states across the country are now proposing, passing and enforcing anti-camping laws. Across California, state authorities have started sweeping encampments.
 
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM, (D) CALIFORNIA: I'm here on behalf of 40 million Californians that are fed up. I'm here because I'm one of them.
 
WATT (voice-over): But more than 50 academics told the Supreme Court there's no evidence that criminalizing homelessness works.
 
WATT: In fact, there's a lot of evidence that it's counterproductive.
 
BREED: Well, what we want to be able to do is use the penalties as a way to get people to commit to going indoors. That's part of our solution.
 
WATT (voice-over): Chris, just visiting here at Jessie and Sixth, got a place to live after a similar sweep.
 
WATT: So it can work, this system.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely. If you just have to get the documents in order. But tragedies happen in these sweeps, a lot of people lose everything, things that they can't replace.
 
WATT (voice-over): Many advocates for the homeless oppose this new strategy. 
 
WATT: What does this do to actually solve the root problem here?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It doesn't. It makes the root problem worse. You know, when folks lose their paperwork, you know, get cited and they can't pay the fines, they don't make it to court, they get a warrant, they get kicked off of their public housing wait list.
 
WATT: So I came back here to Jesse and Sixth three days later. The unhoused people are back, the police are back, the city is back. 
 
WATT: You've spent a lot of money from the city sweeping that same street. To me, that is the definition of madness. BREED: But what I'm saying to you is, the next option that we have for people who are refusing what we're offering is we will be citing. And you'll, maybe in the next couple of months, take a look at our data and see whether or not this is working. And if it's working, we'll continue. If it's not, we need to pivot and to try something else.
 
WATT: What's your plan? Where are you going to go? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Probably around the corner.
 
WATT: Around the corner?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
WATT: And then come back?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah, later after they finish.
 
WATT: The mayor concedes that homelessness has gotten out of control in San Francisco and elsewhere around the country. And also that San Francisco has become a destination. 
 
Now, she is going to restrict the services that have made San Francisco a destination. And she's also offering anybody from out of town who is unhoused a bus ticket back to where they came from. So far, about 100 people have taken up that offer. 
 
Nick Watt, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Now, his managerial career spanned more than four decades, including a history-making stint as the coach of England's national team. Remembering Sven-Goran Eriksson when we come back.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Sven-Goran Eriksson, the first non-Englishman to coach England's national football team, has died after a long illness.
 
FOSTER: He worked with superstars David Beckham, Wayne Rooney, and many others during England's golden generation. CNN's Don Riddell has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Tributes have been pouring in from all over the world today for the late Swedish football manager Sven-Goran Eriksson. His family say that he passed away peacefully at the age of 76. Eriksson revealed in January that he'd been diagnosed with terminal cancer and given a year to live.
 
He's most famous for becoming England's first foreign manager, leading the Three Lions to the quarterfinals of the 2002 and 2006 World Cup tournaments. As a club manager with the likes of Gothenburg, Benfica, and Lazio, he won 18 trophies. 
 
Since going public with his illness, Eriksson was warmly received at many of his former clubs, and he was even able to manage the Liverpool Legends team for a day. He'd said that Liverpool was a team he'd always wanted to manage. He was a lifelong fan. 
 
He bravely lived with his cancer, and he told CNN earlier this year that he was grateful for all the love he was feeling.
 
SVEN-GORAN ERIKSSON, FORMER ENGLAND MANAGER: That was fantastic, very, very nice and beautiful, of course. And I'm a little bit lucky they telling me how good I was when I was still alive. Normally, it's after a funeral, do you hear that?
 
RIDDELL: In a recently broadcast documentary about his life, Eriksson spoke about what would be the end. He said, I hope you will remember me as a positive guy, trying to do everything he could do. Don't be sorry, smile, take care of yourself and your life, and live it.
 
Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: A record crowd turned out in Atlanta to watch Caitlin Clark and the Indiana Fever battle for a playoff spot. More than 17,000 people were on hand as Clark drained four three-pointers to tie the league's rookie record.
 
MACFARLANE: She left the game briefly after rolling her ankle but returned to the court in the second quarter. Clark finished the game with 19 points as the Fever defeated Atlanta Dream 84 to 79. 
 
And it was a star-studded beginning to the U.S. Open with defending champions, Coco Gauff and Novak Djokovic leading off competition in the final Grand Slam of the year.
 
Gauff opened the defense of her crown with a powerful 6-2-6 love win over France's Varvara Gracheva to reach the second round of the competition.
 
FOSTER: And well, number two, Novak Djokovic beat Moldova's Radu Albot in the first round in straight sets. Djokovic is looking to become the first player to win 25 Grand Slam titles with another U.S. Open win. 
 <br>[04:55:02]
 
Boston Red Sox catcher, Danny Jansen has made history as the only player in Major League Baseball to play for both teams in the same game.
 
MACFARLANE: Jansen was in the middle of his at-bats as Toronto Blue Jay back on June 26th when the game was suspended due to weather. Since then, Toronto traded him to Boston. That's how it happened.
 
FOSTER: Oh, we've figured that out. MACFARLANE: And on Monday, he was the catcher when the suspended game resumed, meaning he technically played offence and defense in the same at-bat. Jansen finished with one hit in the game, which Toronto won 4- 1.
 
FOSTER: Isn't that like a sports riddle?
 
MACFARLANE: Yes. Wearing two hats at one time, hey?
 
FOSTER: Wales hosting one of the world's quirkiest sports events, the World Bog Snorkeling Championships kicked off on Monday.
 
MACFARLANE: Only in Wales.
 
FOSTER: The Welsh, they actually take it quite seriously, though, don't they?
 
MACFARLANE: I'm sure they do.
 
FOSTER: Drawn on a crowd of eager participants and curious spectators.
 
MACFARLANE: As you can see here, snorkelers dove into a chilly weed- infested peat bog to see who could swim the fastest. Contestants swim two lengths of a 55-metre channel. The unusual event is in its 38th year.
 
FOSTER: There you go.
 
MACFARLANE: I'd probably do it, you know.
 
FOSTER: Well, it's difficult.
 
MACFARLANE: I'm not, it does not look easy. But, you know, competition, competition and all that, I think I'd give it a good shot.
 
FOSTER: I think you should do it. We'll send out a camera.
 
MACFARLANE: Went to university in Wales.
 
FOSTER: Yes.
 
MACFARLANE: I feel like it's in my backyard.
 
FOSTER: We never met.
 
MACFARLANE: And finally, a British woman celebrated her 102nd birthday in a thrilling way. Manette Baillie jumped out of a small plane on Sunday to skydive over Suffolk, England, becoming the country's oldest skydiver. I think it's Baillie.
 
FOSTER: Baillie.
 
MACFARLANE: Baillie is a veteran who served in the Women's Royal Navy Service during World War II. Her jump was undertaken to raise money for charity. What a legend. FOSTER: What an amazing experience as well at that age.
 
MACFARLANE: Incredible. Incredible woman. And thank you for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane.
 
FOSTER: I'm Max Foster. CNN "THIS MORNING" up next. After a quick break.
 
END