Headline: The Situation Room
Sub-headline: Moments Away, DNC Night Two Kicks Off in Chicago; President Obama To Cast This As All-Hands-On-Deck Moment For Democrats; GOP Lawmakers, Former Trump White House Officials To Speak At DNC; Democratic National Convention. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired August 20, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:00:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: At the crossroads of the U.S., Democrats are getting ready for a colorful state by state celebration of their presidential ticket on a night capped by two of the most popular figures in the party.
 
Tonight, in Chicago, Vice President Kamala Harris and Governor Tim Walz put forward their vision for America, one of the most consequential and tradition-shattering presidential contests ever, entering an urgent new phase. With these high-profile speakers in the spotlight, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, Former First Lady Michelle Obama, and former President Barack Obama.
 
Night two of the Democratic National Convention begins on CNN now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: We are live here in Chicago where Democrats are planning to raise the curtain on Act two of their convention this hour. Delegates are returning to the United Center for a night steeped in convention tradition and also focused on the future as the party tightens its embrace of Kamala Harris and her historic presidential campaign.
 
Welcome to this special edition of The Situation Room. I'm Wolf Blitzer right near the convention floor. And joining me from the CNN Skybox, overlooking the hall, my colleague and friend, Kaitlan Collins. Kaitlan, tonight's highlights will include remarks by the Obamas and a convention staple, the roll call of states.
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Yes. We all know the roll call will be watching it closely as it gets kicked off here, because the Democrats plan to use that to further drive home their shift from the Biden era to the Harris era, which will be on full display tonight.
 
We are told the Delaware delegation will go first. That is, of course, President Biden's home state. You're looking at it there on the floor now. And then for the big finish, the spotlight will be on California, Vice President Harris' home state, as she is going to symbolically secure the presidential nomination. You'll remember she was officially nominated by a virtual vote earlier this month.
 
We're also learning more about what we will hear from Barack and Michelle Obama tonight. We're told that the former president will deliver a forceful affirmation that Harris is the right leader for this moment. And the former first lady will argue that Harris is one of the most qualified candidates to ever seek the presidency, Wolf.
 
Our political team is here covering all of this history with us.
 
BLITZER: It is history indeed, Kaitlan. CNN's Jeff Zeleny will have an up close view from his position right near the stage and CNN's John Berman and Sara Sidner, they're both on the convention floor awaiting the start of this roll call.
 
Let's go to John Berman first. John, tell us more about what to expect during the state by state roll call.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, you're talking about the roll call. Of course, it will be ceremonial tonight, a virtual roll call a couple weeks ago. That is where Vice President Kamala Harris officially secured the nomination. But they're still going to go through the motions here, really, so each state can build enthusiasm and wave their flag.
 
I'm standing in Delaware right now. Delaware, we are told, will go first. My new friends from the 302 here are very excited, and they tell me that Senator Chris Coons will be the one who begins the roll call for Delaware. Of course, Chris Coons, a great friend of President Biden, he spoke last night from that stage talking about their friendship, so part of the passing of the torch from Biden to Harris.
 
Now, we don't know exactly what Senator Coons will say, but you've seen these roll calls before. It's the type of thing where Senator Coons might come up here to this microphone and this is where he'll stand and he'll say, the great state of Delaware, the first state literally to ratify the Constitution, a state of credit cards and a great place to incorporate, nominates Kamala Harris to be the next president of the United States. And then everyone goes bonkers here.
 
So, Delaware goes first. Then they'll work their way through the other states and territories in the hall. Second to last will be Minnesota, Minnesota, right there, of course, the home state of Governor Tim Walz, the vice presidential nominee.
 <br>[18:05:02]
 
And very last, we are told, will be California right over there. Politico reporting the Governor Gavin Newsom will be the name to ceremonially do the roll call for California. He may say, you know, California, the home of vegan food, surfing and the Brady Bunch, nominates our native daughter, Kamala Harris, to be the next president of the United States. So, that is what we will see over the course of the evening, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: All right. John Berman, excellent report, thank you very much.
 
I want to bring in CNN's M.J. Lee right now. She's also with us here in Chicago. M.J., I understand you're learning more about tonight's appearance by the second gentleman, Doug Emhoff.
 
M.J. LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Wolf. CNN has just received the first excerpts of Doug Emhoff's speech tonight, so let me just get straight to it.
 
The second gentleman will describe tonight his wife, the vice president, as a happy, joyful warrior. It's doing for her country, he'll say, what she has always done for the people she loves. Her passion will benefit all of us when she's our president. And he'll say, here's the thing about joyful warriors. They're still warriors and Kamala is as tough as it comes.
 
Now, when the second gentleman takes the stage, Wolf, the song that we are going to hear in this arena is, You Get What You Give by New Radicals. This is a song, we are told that he handpicked, one of his favorite songs, for this big moment, the biggest speech that he will give of his career so far.
 
Most Americans, of course, know very little about the second gentleman, let alone about his music taste. But he is certainly hoping that is going to change soon if Kamala Harris wins the presidency come November.
 
I just want to make a quick note about that song that we were talking about before. This is a song that has meaning for President Joe Biden as well, who, of course, passed that proverbial torch to his vice president last night. He wrote in his memoir that when his late son, Beau, was going through cancer chemotherapy treatments, it is a song that he asked that they listen to together. So, this is a song that is going to be meaningful, not just for the second gentleman but for the Biden family as well. Wolf?
 
BLITZER: M.J., thank you very much.
 
I want to bring in Kasie Hunt and Chris Wallace right now. Kasie this speech that former President Obama is about to deliver, and Michelle Obama, that could be so important in setting the stage for what is about to unfold.
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: President Obama, just on a different level in terms of being a celebrity from almost anyone else we're going to hear from at this convention, someone who has also carved out a way of attacking Donald Trump, criticizing him. I'm interested to see how he balances testifying to Kamala Harris and their friendship over many years, as well as the way she represents trailblazing in the way that he also did with attacking the Republican nominee, who, of course, Democrats view as an existential threat.
 
And I think how that plays also with his wife, Michelle Obama, who, in many ways, is a bigger cultural force, even than her husband with these bestselling books. She, of course, famously had the line, when they go low, we go high. I don't get the sense there's a ton of appetite for that from Democrats here. They're kind of -- the attitude seems to be we need to get down in the mud if we're actually going to win this thing against Donald Trump. So, I'm interested to see how she threads that needle.
 
CHRIS WALLACE, CNN ANCHOR: You know, it's interesting well, the impact that a former president can have. Back in 2012, when Barack Obama was running for re-election, the night before he spoke, Bill Clinton spoke and gave -- but I think Obama later admitted it was a better rationale for why you should re-elect Barack Obama than Barack Obama gave in his acceptance speech. And, in fact, afterwards Obama called Clinton the secretary of explaining things.
 
I think the hope is that tonight Barack Obama can give that kind of a testimonial for Kamala Harris and explain in a way that she hasn't had an opportunity. Obviously, she hopes to accede it on Thursday night why America should vote for her and trust her.
 
You know, it's a very interesting thing. Joe Biden dropped out of this race 30 days ago, and that has played very much to Kamala Harris' advantage. She's had this kind of speed dating relationship with voters, and so far it's a love affair. But having said that, most Americans don't know very much about Kamala Harris. They need validation. They need background. They need anecdotes. She hasn't gone through, you know, the year-long campaign that people normally get before they come to a convention and are nominated as their party's standard bearer.
 
So, I think it's going to be very interesting what you hear from Doug Emhoff, and from Barack Obama, and from Michelle Obama tonight in terms of validating Kamala Harris.
 
BLITZER: Not only validating, but also all of us will be learning so much more about Kamala Harris in the course of the remarks from these individuals tonight.
 
HUNT: Yes, that's right. And, I mean, I think that's where the second gentleman also particularly comes in. He obviously is the person that is closest to her, kind of the most ability to shed light on who she is as a person.
 <br>[18:10:04]
 
But, you know, I think Chris is right. I mean, Democrats across the country have come to trust Barack Obama and Michelle Obama. And they, at the moment, seem very excited about Kamala Harris, but I do think there has been this persistent question of whether -- you know, her critics will call it a sugar high, right, which implies that there is a crash at the bottom. And I think the question is can they put meat on the bone here ahead of what is going to be, you know, a critical test and moment for her later on this week?
 
BLITZER: And we got the ratings for last night. Tens of millions of Americans were watching. I assume, perhaps with the Obama speaking tonight, maybe even more -- WALLACE: and what's interesting, just as a quick point, more people watch the first night of the Democratic Convention than the first night of the Republican Convention. And for a man who thinks ratings are more important than anything, that is really going to tick Donald Trump off.
 
BLITZER: Trump is not happy about that.
 
We're counting down to the start of the convention and the high profile speeches tonight, including a highly personal appeal for voters to support Kamala Harris from her husband, Doug Emhoff.
 
Also ahead, remarks by Senator and former Presidential Candidate Bernie Sanders. And later, two speakers who are sure to be convention crowd pleasers, Barack and Michelle Obama. We're getting new information about the former first lady and what she will say tonight.
 
Stay with us. We'll have all that information coming up right after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
COLLINS: We are now just moments away from night two of the Democratic National Convention, kicking off here in Chicago, a familiar stage for the man delivering tonight's headline address, former President Barack Obama. It's one of the many speeches from top Democrats tonight as they will be making the case for Vice President Kamala Harris. The former first lady, Michelle Obama, is also going to be on that stage tonight.
 
I want to go to CNN's Jeff Zeleny, who is just right next door to where she will be speaking shortly. And, Jeff, you've been doing some reporting on her speech and really just her mindset as she is returning to a very familiar spotlight for her at the convention.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: And, Kaitlan, Michelle Obama certainly is coming home to Chicago tonight to deliver what she rarely does, a public political address. But for all the attention focused on the former president, I am told the Harris campaign is focused more on Michelle Obama. They believe that her speech tonight could resonate much more outside this convention hall in the weeks to come in this election. I am told that the former first lady is going to say she would like to sit on the sidelines, but this campaign is too important to do so.
 
Of course, we all remember eight years ago when she addressed the Democratic convention back in 2016 in Philadelphia, she addressed the Trump campaign and Republicans specifically saying, when they go low, we go high. I am told tonight she will deliver an updated version of that. We don't know exactly what that will be, but she is going to make the case that she knows this race is incredibly important and incredibly tight, and Democrats cannot afford to sit on the sidelines.
 
So, this back-to-back address from the Obamas tonight at the end of the evening, anticipation already building for it, but Michelle Obama may be the one to watch.
 
COLLINS: Yes, and we will all be keeping a close eye on that. Jeff Zeleny, thank you for that. We'll keep checking in with you.
 
We're also keeping an eye on new comments from Donald Trump, who is out on the campaign trail today. That is where we find CNN's Kristen Holmes at this hour. Kristen, you spoke to Donald Trump directly earlier. What did he tell you?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kaitlan, I asked him about the DNC, and particularly former President Barack Obama's speech tonight. I cited the fact that in 2020, Obama said that Trump never grew into the role as president. And then I asked him for essentially a prebuttal of the speech. This is what he said, almost a complete turnaround of what we've heard him say about former President Obama before.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: I like him. I think he's a nice gentleman, but he was very, very weak on trade. If you take a look at what happened to our country trade-wise, it was a disaster. Take a look at Japan, take a look at China, take a look at what happened with some of these countries, what they did. But I happen to like him. I respect him and I respect his wife.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Kaitlan, I respect him and I respect his wife, ibviously, very different from what we've heard from Donald Trump, particularly during his tenure in office, when he repeatedly blamed Obama for a lot of shortcomings in his own office, tried to undermine his legacy, and before that, was the biggest promoter of birtherism, essentially saying that Obama wasn't eligible to be president. We have never really heard, at least in modern times, him say that he had some kind of level of respect for him and his wife, but, clearly, he is shifting his tune today.
 
COLLINS: Interesting comments. Kristen Holmes, thank you for that.
 
We're back here with our political experts at the table. John, I mean, he accused him of directly spying on his campaign, the birtherism, I mean, I respect him, but I respect his wife?
 
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: By luck of the draw, I interviewed Donald Trump the day Barack Obama finally released his birth certificate And I showed a copy to Donald Trump and he threw it back at me, like that, and he said he was sending a team to Hawaii to investigate. He has at some of his rallies used Barack Obama's middle name, Barack Hussein Obama.
 
COLLINS: He types it in all caps.
 
KING: Again, raising questions that Obama's not legitimate, that he's not American, that he shouldn't have been president. What does that tell me? It tells me that Donald Trump, who occasionally listens to his political advisers, and has very smart political advisers, has been told, guess what sir, you're losing. You're losing because people think you're unhinged.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
You're losing because not only black voters, but people in the suburbs don't like your tone. That's what that tells me.
 
COLLINS: Yes. I mean --
 
JAMIE GANGEL, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: Who is that man? I mean, this is -- look, to John's point, this is about one thing and one thing only, and that's the campaign and voters, and he is worried about this race.
 
And, I mean, I have a list of insults that he has made about both Barack Obama and Michelle Obama. She polls very badly. She's just terrible and so forth and so on. He thought, when he was running against Joe Biden, that he could get some black votes, that he could get Hispanic votes. He sees what's going on with Kamala Harris and that's when they go low, he's going high for the first time ever.
 
COLLINS: Yes, we'll see how long that lasts.
 
KING: Start the clock.
 
GANGEL: Right.
 
COLLINS: But obviously Trump has been keeping a close eye on this convention, watching it. One of his former administration officials, Stephanie Grisham, is going to be on that stage tonight, not just her, but other Republicans as well. I mean, how is that going to go over?
 
DAVID URBAN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes, look, I don't think, I don't think that's going to bother him. And if, look, if you want me to believe that Kamala Harris is now for fracking, I can believe that Donald Trump now likes Barack Obama, okay? So, it's a new political world today, okay?
 
Look, the people who are coming up, I think I said this, Geoff Duncan in the state of Georgia may have some impact because he's a known entity. I think the rest of the people, nobody really knows who they are. Some Republicans, it's good political theater here tonight. It's nice for them to put them on and say, look how bad Donald Trump is. But to the rest of the world it's largely irrelevant other than in Georgia where it may have some impact. Well, nobody knows.
 
ASHLEY ALLISON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Because it means it didn't (ph) say anything. Ouch, bad luck, bad luck.
 
KING: I don't think that's where she's going.
 
ALLISON: Okay. It's like when they go low --
 
URBAN: Be nice.
 
ALLISON: No, when they go low, we go high. He sounds high right now is actually what it is. Donald Trump --
 
URBAN: So mean, so mean.
 
ALLISON: No. What is mean is Donald Trump the whole time questioning a black man's citizenship, using a name like Hussein as a derogatory term. That is mean. What is mean is calling African countries s-hole countries and a-hole countries. That's mean. That was a joke. What he said maybe is a joke. Donald Trump does not respect Barack Obama. He does not respect. Michelle Obama. I'm not even sure he knows what respect is. And if he does, I don't want that kind of respect.
 
URBAN: He was very kind to them. That was as kind as it gets.
 
ALLISON: No, it wasn't honest though. It wasn't honest.
 
URBAN: How do you know it wasn't honest? Well, if that's what liking somebody means, I don't want that kind of like in my life. That's like how enemies like people.
 
KING: If that was honest, then you're saying he's been dishonest for the last six years.
 
ALLISON: The last ten years.
 
URBAN: But, John, listen, you said it's politics, right? It's all politics, right?
 
KING: That is politics.
 
URBAN: Politics. And people say it -- it's advisers, some advisers say listen, let's stick to the facts. Let's talk about the economy. Let's talk about the border. Let's talk inflation. Let's not make it about people, right? So, maybe he's listening, just like you said.
 
I'm hopeful because he's leading on, right now in that CBS poll, he's leading around inflation, economy, and the border. Let's keep talking about those issues.
 
ALLISON: That's not going to get him black votes.
 
COLLINS: Maybe he thought she was talking about someone else. David Urban, everyone else, thank you for that.
 
Just ahead, as I noted, right here behind us, night two of the Democratic Convention is about to officially gavel in. Stand by. We are going to bring you the roll call of states symbolically affirming the nomination of Kamala Harris and the main event of the night, a headliner speech from former President Barack Obama, who I hear Donald Trump respects very much.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
BLITZER: Welcome back to our special live coverage. You're watching the DNC on CNN. The party is about to get underway here in Chicago, delegates filling up the conventional hall just ahead of speeches from the Obamas and the ceremonial roll call of states celebrating the nomination of Kamala Harris for president of the United States.
 
Right now, let's go to CNN's Sara Sidner. She on the convention floor with the Delaware delegation. Sara, I understand you have a special guest.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: I do, Wolf Blitzer, Sarah McBride, another Sarah in our lives, which is always a good thing I say. You were the first openly transgender person to be put into the state legislator by voters and you are hoping to become the first transgender woman to be in Congress.
 
You are in a place where you are going to see the first African- American and South Asian woman be nominated as the potential president of the United States. First of all, what is it like to be so many firsts and then to be here witnessing what will be another American first?
 
SARAH MCBRIDE (D), DELAWARE CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATE: Well, first off, hope and history is in the air in this arena today. It is so incredibly electrifying to be here as we are about to formally nominate Kamala Harris to be the next president of the United States. You know, the opportunities that I've had in Delaware are a reflection of the goodness of our state. We are a state of neighbors that is judging candidates based on their ideas and not their identities.
 
And in those firsts are also experiences, like my opportunity to lead the effort to pass paid family and medical leave in Delaware. And now as I run for Congress and we have the opportunity to shatter a national lavender glass ceiling, I'm mindful that the only way for me to guarantee that while I may be the first, that I'm not the last, is to be the best member of Congress I can be, to be effectively working on all of the issues that matter to the constituents that I'm seeking to represent. That's the only way I can win this race, and it's the only way I can guarantee that I'm not leaving a Sarah-sized hole in the wall.
 
SIDNER: I love the way you said that. Sarah McBride, thank you so much for talking to us and enjoy the convention. I see you've been all smiles so far today.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
I appreciate it. Wolf?
 
BLITZER: All right. Sara, thank you very much and thank Sarah as well for us.
 
I want to get back to our panel, Chris Wallace and Kasie Hunt. What do you think of the fact that several notable Republicans are here and will be speaking, endorsing Kamala Harris tonight?
 
WALLACE: Well, it's interesting. And the obvious point is that if you're for traditional, what we used to call mainstream Republicans, Donald Trump is a bridge too far. And you saw it during the primaries, when even after Nikki Haley dropped out, she was still getting 20 percent of the vote in some of the Republican primaries.
 
So, rightly or wrongly, the Harris campaign believes that there is a constituency out there of Republicans who may be conservative, but just can't stomach the idea of another four years of Donald Trump. They hope that with people like Stephanie Grisham or Adam Kinzinger, former Governor Geoff Duncan, lieutenant governor of Georgia, by them coming out and saying that they're going to vote.
 
HUNT: And the question too, Wolf, is, are they going to lean into that constituency, or are they going to continue to try to shore up the Democratic base? Right now, we've seen the campaign lean more towards base politics than toward some of these Republican voters, but tonight, I think they're going to get their moment in the spot.
 
BLITZER: I want to go to the floor. John Berman is on the floor. We're getting ready for this ceremonial roll call. Explain to our viewers why this is going to be significant tonight.
 
BERMAN: Every state will get a chance to speak. You'll never guess where I am. I ended up at a Packers game somehow. I'm here in Wisconsin. I'm not sure how you can tell that I'm here in Wisconsin. It is worth noting, Wolf, almost everyone standing here has got a friend or a family member who's in Milwaukee right now where Vice President Harris will be speaking in just a few hours, such an important state, such an important swing state.
 
And, of course, everyone here is super proud of the symbolism here. They say every time they mention courage on the stage, they think they're saying --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Curds.
 
BERMAN: Curds. Curds. Curds, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: All right, I get it. All right, John Berman, thank you very much. I like the fact that you're there, certainly.
 
The headline speeches of the night are still ahead, including remarks by Barack and Michelle Obama. Coming up, we also expect musical performances by R&amp;B legend Patti LaBelle and Rap Star Common.
 
Lots going on, we'll be right back in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
(NATIONAL ANTEHM LED BY ARISTOTLE GARCIA BYRNE)
 
MITCH LANDRIEU, DNC CO-CHAIR: Thank you Aris. Folks, give it up for Aris one more time.
 
I'd like you to pause with me for a minute. Two years ago, my dad died, the Moon Landrieu. He was a great leader. He was a great mayor, secretary of HUD. He lived his life for others. We have lost so many patriots since the last convention. So, before we go any further tonight, let's take a moment and join with me and let's remember them all.
 
(YOU ARE MY FRIEND PERFORMED BY PATTI LABELLE)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome the chair of the Carter Center and grandson of President Jimmy Carter, Jason Carter.
 
JASON CARTER, PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER'S GRANDSON: Hello. I'm Jason Carter. My grandfather, President Carter, will have his 100th birthday in October. I call him Papa, and I can tell you that he wishes he could be here tonight.
 
He and my grandmother led their lives with an unwavering faith in God, a respect for human dignity, honesty, and a commitment to loving their neighbors as themselves. Those principles guided them throughout their lives, including during their four years in the White House and the four decades since.
 
For my grandfather, it was never about fame, recognition, accolades, or awards. His legacy is measured by the lives he has touched. And the good he has done.
 
Kamala Harris carries my grandfather's legacy. She knows what is right and she fights for it. She understands that leadership is about service, not selfishness, that you can show strength and demonstrate decency, and that you can get a whole lot more done with a smile than with a scowl.
 
Papa is holding on. He is hopeful. And though his body may be weak tonight, his spirit is as strong as ever. My grandfather can't wait to vote for Kamala Harris. She reminds us all that the promise of America remains unchanged.
 
We are one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. And my grandfather knows that with her as our next president, we will keep that promise. Thank you.
 
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome delegate from New York and grandson of President John F. Kennedy, Jack Schlossberg.
 <br>[18:45:12]
 
JACK SCHLOSSBERG, PRES. JOHN F. KENNEDY'S GRANDSON: Hi. I'm Jack Schlossberg. President John F. Kennedy is my grandfather and he is my hero JFK was the youngest person ever elected president and the first Catholic. He sent a man to the moon, fought for civil rights and navigated the Cuban missile crisis peacefully. Most of all, he inspired a new generation to ask what they could do for our country.
 
Tonight, JFK's call to action is now hours to answer, because once again, the torch has been passed to a new generation to a leader who shares my grandfather's energy, vision, and optimism for our future. That leader is Vice President Kamala Harris. (CHEERS)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
SCHLOSSBERG: Like President Kennedy, Vice President Harris has dedicated her life to public service. 
 
She believes in America, like my grandfather did, that we do things not because they're easy, but because they are hard. As president, she will fight for working families. She will expand investments in clean energy so that my generation will have clean air and good jobs. 
 
She will defend our freedoms, the freedom for women anywhere in America to make their own healthcare choices, the freedom to be safe from gun violence, the freedom to vote easily and without fear the choice is ours to make and history jury is watching to see what we will do.
 
Now, let's elect Kamala Harris, the next president of the United States. Thank you.
 
(CHEERS)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
BLITZER: And we'll have a live interview with JFK's grandson, Jack Schlossberg. That's coming up later.
 
Plus, primetime speeches by Barack and Michelle Obama. And the Democrats roll call of states celebrating their nomination of Kamala Harris for president.
 
There's much for just that right after this quick break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:51:38]
 
BLITZER: We're back live here at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, where delegates are now gearing up big time for the always entertaining and roll hall of states. We'll have live coverage of that. 
 
They're also being treated to some star studded musical performance, performances. And we expect the rapper common onstage at any moment, well listen and we'll enjoy Common. That's coming up very, very soon. The roll call is coming up. The Obama's will be speaking, there will be several other major speeches tonight. Doug Emhoff, the second job gentleman.
 
Sara Sidner's on the floor for us right now.
 
Sara, you have a special guest as we await this roll call and we await Common.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. And as a person that's going to be taken in part in doing the roll call for the great state of Louisiana, you will recognize the face and the voice. Wendell Pierce, you'll remember him from many things, "The Wire". He just did an incredible job in "Death of a Salesman" on Broadway. 
 
I happen to be able to see that it was wonderful. You are here tonight to do roll call.
 
Oh, we're about to go to Common. We're going to come back just a second. Oh, no, we're not going. Okay. We're almost there. 
 
All right. So let me let me ask you, what is this moment like? How did this all happen that you are going to be saying, hey, Louisiana? Roll call, we're here. 
 
WENDELL PIERCE, ACTOR AND BUSINESSMAN: Well, I started working on the campaign would fundraisers going all the way back to last spring. So I was very much involved in a Biden-Harris campaign and I was coming to the convention and actually the Louisiana delegation asked for someone from Louisiana who is recognizable. And my name was on the listen.
 
And so I was honored that the head of the Democratic Caucus in Louisiana asked for me. So I'm proud son of Louisiana, and born and raise in New Orleans. So I'm happy to do it. I'm happy to be here because I support the vice president wholeheartedly.
 
SIDNER: When you learned of this change, as we all did on one Sunday, just about four weeks ago, not very long, like 30 something days ago. What did that do for you and how have things changed as you see the difference in Kamala Harris being at the top of the ticket as opposed to Joe Biden. 
 
PIERCE: At first, I was -- I was -- I was a little sad because I really support the president. I really think he did a great job, and I was -- I was all in. But I support the vice president as well in.
 
SIDNER: And you hear this.
 
PIERCE: This is the excitement that she brings you know, and here we are in Chicago and it's my man Common, he's about to come on.
 
SIDNER: We're about to jam to it. 
 
PIERCE: That's right. 
 
SIDNER: Let's listen to Common.
 
(COMMON LIVE PERFORMANCE)
 
(MUSIC)
 <br>[18:57:20]
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: Here in Chicago, the second night of the Democratic National Convention is underway. Inside the arena, Democrats getting ready for a celebratory roll call. States giving delegates a chance to publicly reaffirmed their nomination of Kamala Harris as their presidential nominee. 
 
CNN special coverage live from the convention hall. I'm Anderson Cooper, along with Jake Tapper.
 
And, Jake, tonight, we expect to hear some powerful, highly personal accounts of who Kamala Harris is and the kind of president that her son order say she would be.
 
TAPPER: Anderson, former President Barack Obama is the headliner this evening. We're told that he will argue that Vice President Harris, whom he is known for 20 years, is the leader the United States of America needs right now. 
 
Former First Lady Michelle Obama is also speaking this evening. Like her husband. She will lay out her view of the stakes of this election and will try to make the case that Kamala Harris can turn the page on an era that Michelle Obama sees as being full of fear and division.
 
Also, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff will take the stage, a husband of Vice President Harris. Sources tell us that Emhoff will try to help round out his wife's image, which is still largely being formed by sharing what he says she's like at home, describing her as the anchor that grounds their blended family. 
 
Kaitlan Collins is back on the convention floor. 
 
Kaitlan, set the scene for us as we head into some of the biggest moments of the evening.
 
COLLINS: Yeah, Jake, it's a very celebratory atmosphere here as night two is getting underway. 
 
Obviously, everyone, Common was on, had everyone on their feet as he was performing on stage. And now, they are waiting hear from these major keynote speakers that are going to get onstage, and in a historic show of force of the Democratic Party all coming together behind the nominee. 
 
I mean, just look the span of who is going to be on that stage tonight, from Senator Bernie Sanders, to former President Barack Obama, Senator Chuck Schumer. Obviously, former First Lady Michelle Obama as well. That is two people that we've been talking to delegates want to see tonight because last night, obviously, was an ode to President Biden. He was on stage touting his agenda and then we will see a lot of this focus and I turned telling the American people who Vice President Harris is.
 
It's well-known inside the United Center, all the delegation that are here. She is now as they are behind her as their nominee. That is what they are going to be looking ahead to, Jake, focusing on that and saying that as we are seeing quite lifestyle. I'll note, we've been focusing on Delaware, the delegation I'm standing to a lot, obviously, given its President Biden's home state. But we will be focusing on California as this role call is getting underway, white a large delegation, front and center, for Vice President Harris, Jake. 
 
TAPPER: All right. Now, let's go over to M.J. Lee, who has details on what the Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff will say this evening. 
 
M.J., tell us what you're learning. 
 
M.J. LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Jake, this week is all about the American people getting to know better the vice president and the same goes for her family. We've just learned that her stepson Cole Emhoff is going to be on stage tonight talk about what the vice president often refers to as her blended family in a video message as well.