Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: 'Wicked' Singing Controversy; Santa School; Australia Bans Social Media For Kids Under 16; Russia Strikes Ukraine's Power Grid. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired November 29, 2024 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:20]
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN HOST:  New overnight, Ukraine says Russia launched 132 drone attacks, and almost all were brought down. At least eight people, though, were injured. 
 
These latest strikes come after Russia again pounded Ukraine's power grid yesterday. A million homes were left in the dark and rolling blackouts covered much of the country. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen is in Moscow with the latest. 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Hi there, Jim. 
 
Well, the Kremlin continuing to criticize the Biden administration after the White House came out with a statement calling that massive Russian missile and drone strike from Thursday morning outrageous. The Kremlin, however, saying that that strike was a direct response to the Biden administration allowing the Ukrainians to use those U.S.- supplied ATACMS, surface-to-surface missiles, to strike targets deep inside Russia.
 
Of course, both the Russians and the Ukrainians have confirmed that those missiles were used to hit military targets in the western regions of Russia. The Russians also, of course, ramping up their aerial campaign against targets inside of Ukraine. Once again, in the early morning hours of Friday, the Ukrainians are saying that 130 drones were used by the Russians. 
 
The Ukrainians are saying that they managed to take most of those drones down. However, they do say that there was damage on the ground. However, really, the talk here in Russia right now is about this new gigantic intermediate-range multiple-warhead ballistic missile that the Russians used about a week ago for the first time. 
 
Vladimir Putin, of course, saying that the Russians are willing to use that weapon again if the Ukrainians continue to use those U.S.- supplied weapons to strike deep into Russia. In fact, Vladimir Putin came out and said that weapon could obliterate anything in its path.
 
And he said three of those weapons paired together could have almost the same effect as a nuclear explosion, so a pretty clear warning there coming from the Russians trying to dissuade the Biden administration from allowing the Ukrainians to use those U.S.-supplied weapons to strike deep inside Russia, Jim.
 
ACOSTA:  Fred Pleitgen reporting from Moscow, thank you very much.
 
Let's continue this conversation.
 
Joining me now is retired Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt. 
 
General Kimmitt, let's begin with Putin threatening to fire off nuclear-capable ballistic missiles at Ukraine. What do you make of that threat? 
 
BRIG. GEN. MARK KIMMITT (RET.), FORMER U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS AND STRATEGY:  Well, first of all, I think it's important to recognize that the delivery system and the warhead are two different things. 
 
We have missiles on our submarines that could be fitted with nuclear weapons, but have been used often with conventional warheads. I think the issue of using that type of delivery system has some faults to it, the greatest being that you don't know what the warhead is, if it's a nuclear weapon or it's conventional missiles.
 
And that will start all sorts of alarms around the world. In fact, the Russians notified the United States before they did this, just so the United States would not think it was a nuclear attack. 
 
ACOSTA:  And, General Kimmitt, I do want to ask you, what are your thoughts on this intense bombardment that we have seen from the Russians on the Ukrainians? It seems to have come in response to President Biden saying to the Ukrainians, yes, you can use those longer-range U.S.-made missiles. 
 
What do you make of the conversation as to whether or not that was a miscalculation the part of President Biden, or was it the right move to provide Ukraine with these weapons that they have been asking for a long time? 
 
KIMMITT:  Well, I think that was a political decision the part of President Biden to hand over a war to president-elect Trump with the argument that he did everything he could for the Ukrainians, even though the timing has been terrible. 
 
The actual tactical aspect of what's going on, I think, look, you now have a weapon system that can go 150 miles into Russia, and that is not something that we would accept, and it's certainly nothing that the Russians are going to accept. 
 
But I think the third issue is, both sides are what I would call fighting their way to the negotiating table. It's clear, once president-elect Trump comes in, that there will be some types of negotiation or, quite frankly, demands made, and they're both trying to put -- they, Ukraine and Russia, trying to put themselves in the best possible positions before that happens. ACOSTA:  And, General Kimmitt, Trump has chosen retired General Keith
 
 Kellogg as his special envoy to Russia and Ukraine. Kellogg has previously laid out a plan that critics say favors Russia. 
 
What's your sense of all of this? I mean, some of these Cabinet picks seem to indicate, I guess perhaps with the exception of Marco Rubio as secretary of state, that he -- that Trump wants to see Ukraine and Russia go to the negotiating table and for Ukraine to essentially give up land to end this conflict. 
 <br>[11:35:08]
 
KIMMITT:  Well, again, we don't know the terms of the agreement are.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. 
 
KIMMITT:  I was surprised at the selection.
 
The qualification that General Kellogg brings to the table is that he was the first general to sign on with President Trump in 2016. I don't know that he has any type of negotiating background or that he has any type of the technical skills be conducting that level of diplomacy.
 
So he will be coming and delivering a message. He is certainly not James Baker. And he's going to have a hard time standing up to Sergey Lavrov.
 
ACOSTA:  And I asked this question in the previous hour. I will ask it of you.
 
I mean, are the Ukrainians in a position where they could just simply say the United States, no, we're not going to negotiate, we're not going to do this, and certainly not in the fashion that you have laid out? Could they show some independence here that might surprise people after Trump comes into office?
 
KIMMITT:  Well, I think they certainly could.
 
And I think Zelenskyy would do that if he knew he had the backing of the E.U. and the European countries that are more interested than the United States in prolonging this war and sending a clear message to Russia.
 
I don't believe they can do it themselves. If they get European backing, they will continue. They would prefer to have European and U.S. backing. But it doesn't look like that's going to happen.
 
ACOSTA:  All right, retired General Mark Kimmitt, as always, thanks for your time. We appreciate it.
 
KIMMITT:  Sure, Jim.
 
ACOSTA:  All right, still ahead this hour:  Australia becomes the first in the world to pass a law banning social media for kids under 16 years old. Could that work here in the U.S.?
 
We will talk about it next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:41:25]
 
ACOSTA:  In what's regarded as a world's first law, Australia has approved a social media ban for children under 16. An intense debate over the proposal has gripped the nation for months. Now tech giants from Meta to TikTok will be required to stop minors from logging on or face fines of up to about $32 million. 
 
A trial run begins in January. The government of Australia has faced criticism over the speed of the law's passing, but the prime minister there, Anthony Albanese, says the country is on the right track. 
 
CNN's Hanako Montgomery has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  How kids use social media is a problem millions of parents face. And Australia says it's now found the solution. 
 
ANTHONY ALBANESE, AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTER:  World-leading action to make sure social media companies meet their social responsibility. Social media is doing harm to our children. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Under Australia's new law, kids under 16 are banned from accessing social media platforms. And tech companies breaking the rules could face fines in the tens of millions. 
 
(on camera):  But the bill, rushed through in just a week, is drawing criticism from those not convinced it'll keep kids off the Internet.
 
SARAH HANSON-YOUNG, AUSTRALIAN SENATOR:  I mean, it's almost embarrassing. I mean, this is Boomers trying to tell young people how the Internet should work. 
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  Tech giants, including Meta and X's Elon Musk, argue more time and evidence are needed before enforcing the ban. 
 
But for some parents, the law couldn't come fast enough. 
 
KELLY O'BRIEN, MOTHER OF CHARLOTTE O'BRIEN:  I will miss your hugs, your kisses, your love, your beautiful, beautiful smile. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Twelve-year-old Charlotte O'Brien took her own life, her parents say, after years of being bullied online. Cases like hers and Allem Halkic, who ended his life at 17, have driven Australia's push to protect kids from online harm. 
 
ALI HALKIC, FATHER OF ALLEM HALKIC:  If that was in place today, I know he would be alive. And that's the guilt that I have to live with every day. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Australia's new law is divisive. But for grieving families, it's a fight worth leading. 
 
Hanako Montgomery, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ACOSTA:  Record-breaking MLB star Shohei Ohtani is going after his former interpreter.
 
In new court documents, he's demanding Ippei Mizuhara turn over $325,000 worth of baseball cards. Ohtani says Mizuhara bought them using stolen money. Mizuhara has already pleaded guilty to bank and tax fraud for stealing almost $17 million from the L.A. Dodgers player. He will be sentenced in January and could spend more than 30 years in federal prison. 
 
If you have plans to see "Wicked" this holiday weekend, you're not alone. Ariana Grande and the rest of the cast may not be the only ones singing the hit Broadway tunes. The film has already started a big debate in its opening weekend. Is it OK to sing along from your seat? That's coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[11:49:42]
 
ACOSTA:  All right, to sing or not to sing, that is the question facing moviegoers as they watch "Wicked" in theaters.
 
The movie adaptation of the beloved Broadway musical has smashed box office records with an estimated $162 million during opening weekend, but will viewers want to hear your rendition, instead of the stars'? That's doubtful. 
 
CNN senior entertainment reporter Lisa France joins me now. 
 
Lisa, I mean, I'm a live and let live kind of guy. If people want to sing, go ahead and sing, but I'm thinking in the movie theaters that just might take away from the moviegoing experience. We will just say that. 
 
LISA FRANCE, CNN SENIOR ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER:  Some people feel that way, Jim. There are folks who complain about people using their cell phones or having their cell phones out during a movie, let alone singing "Defying Gravity" at the top of your lungs, right? 
 <br>[11:50:06]
 
But Cynthia Erivo has weighed in on this. While being interviewed during the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, she was asked about it. And she said, we have been singing these songs, so we -- I think it's OK for people to be singing along in the theater.
 
But there's some movie theaters that absolutely do not agree with that. They want you to be watching the film, enjoying the film, but not belting out these fantastic songs at the top of your lungs. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
ACOSTA:  Yes, I mean, totally.
 
And there have been sing-along movie versions over the years, right? I think there was a "Mamma Mia!" one. 
 
FRANCE:  Yes.
 
ACOSTA:  But I think that was sort of for the home audience, not -- maybe there was something in the theaters, where it was like OK to go and do it and just let your -- let it all out. 
 
But I want to ask you about something else. There are also rumors that Ariana Grande got paid millions more than Cynthia Erivo. 
 
FRANCE:  Yes. 
 
ACOSTA:  What's going on with that? What's the studio saying? 
 
FRANCE:  That started with a meme that was claiming that...
 
ACOSTA:  Ah.
 
FRANCE:  ... Ariana Grande made $12 million to $15 million and that Cynthia Erivo only made a million dollars.
 
But the studio has come out to say that absolutely is not the case, that both women were paid the same. And I think that's important, because people were trying to make this into a race thing and say, oh, Cynthia Erivo didn't receive as much because she's black or she's a person of color, as opposed to Ariana Grande. 
 
But people at the studio are saying that's not the case at all. And both of these women, of course, are tremendously talented. Both of their voices are amazing. And if you have watched any of the coverage of the press that they have done for this film, you see how truly they love each other. They have developed a sisterhood, a coven, I guess you would have to call it, since they play witches. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
ACOSTA:  Excellent. Well, they're both stunning. 
 
FRANCE:  Yes.
 
ACOSTA:  And I just -- I'm so glad that this is bringing back the moviegoing experience. It kind of ebbs and flows. We saw "Top Gun: Maverick" do it. 
 
And the -- I guess "Wicked" is not the only one that's out right now. There's the other half of Glicked, right? They're "Gladiator II." 
 
FRANCE:  Right.
 
ACOSTA:  And I haven't seen that yet. It's on my list. I want to go see it. And I hear that Denzel Washington is absolutely fantastic. What can you tell us about that? 
 
FRANCE:  Yes.
 
Well, Glicked is not as loud a phenomenon as Barbenheimer was. 
 
ACOSTA:  Right. 
 
FRANCE:  That was when they had the "Oppenheimer" movie and "Barbie." And people were coming dressed. It was all over social media. 
 
People were talking about it on social media, but not as loudly as they were Barbenheimer. "Gladiator II" is, of course, a very different audience. But we know that having these two films come out at the same time is great for social media purposes, because the whole Glicked phenomenon is simply a way to get people talking about being in the theaters and hopefully to come.
 
And I have seen a lot of men say, you know what, take your ladies to see "Wicked" and then make her stay with you to watch "Gladiator II."
 
ACOSTA:  Exactly.
 
FRANCE:  And I'm here for all the women at like "Gladiator II" as well.
 
Like, I don't think it's like a man-woman thing. I think -- I think you can love musical theater and you can love the bloodiness and the awesomeness that is Denzel Washington, because that man is going to turn in an Oscar-worthy performance, no matter what it is, always, Jim.
 
ACOSTA:  Oh, for sure.
 
FRANCE:  Always, Jim, always.
 
ACOSTA:  And Pedro Pascal is in there.
 
FRANCE:  Yes.
 
ACOSTA:  It looks like a great cast.
 
FRANCE:  Yes.
 
ACOSTA:  And, I mean, you can make it a double feature.
 
There was a time, wasn't there, Lisa, when we would go on dates and there would be a double feature and you would -- that would be a great date?
 
All right, Lisa France, as always, thank you so much. Really appreciate it.
 
FRANCE:  Thank you, Jim. Take care.
 
ACOSTA:  All right, you too. And, finally, just 26 days until Christmas, Santas are ironing their suits, combing their beards, preparing for a jolly holiday season by going to Santa School.
 
Anna Stewart has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One, two three.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALES:  Ho, ho, ho, ho!
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  Some people prepare for the holidays with Christmas lights and decorations, but these Santas have a more detailed preparation ahead.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Welcome to the 2024 (INAUDIBLE) Santa Train.
 
(CHEERING)
 
STEWART:  As you can imagine, being Father Christmas is a big feat. But at Santa School in London, they start their training months in advance.
 
These jolly fellows are given the tools needed to be the most authentic Santa Claus.
 
JAMES LOVELL, CHIEF TRAINER OF SANTAS:  This year there, are a lot of not-very-nice things going on in the world, and I think people are looking for Father Christmas to bring them a little bit of joy. People just need more jollity this year. They need more magic in their lives. That's what Santa brings.
 
STEWART:  James Lovell has been a chief Santa trainer for over 25 years and says his bookings this year are up a merry 20 percent.
 
From learning all the reindeer's names...
 
SANTAS:  Donner, Dasher, Cupid, Vixen, Dancer, Prancer, Comet, Blitzen, and Rudolph!
 
STEWART:  ... to the history of Christmas and even how to interact with your elves, these Santa students are taking notes, making sure kids and adults have the best Christmas experience.
 
Lovell even has a surprising rule:  Don't ask kids what they want for Christmas.
 
LOVELL:  You shouldn't actually ask them what they want for Christmas, because most children have written you a letter. And if you're asking them what they want for Christmas, you're basically saying you haven't read their letter, which is rude. You read the letter and you know.
 <br>[11:55:10]
 
STEWART:  And you can't be an authentic Santa without the perfect ho, ho, ho. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Give them a ho, ho, ho. 
 
SANTAS:  Ho, ho, ho!
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Give them a bigger ho, ho, ho. 
 
SANTAS:  Ho, ho, ho!
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Some people can go ho, ho, ho. And some people can go ho, ho, ho. But it's when you go ho, ho, ho, then you find that it sounds a bit more authentic, because that's what people hear on Christmas Eve when they're looking up at the sky. 
 
STEWART:  Anna Stewart, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ACOSTA:  And a ho, ho, ho to all of you. Thank you very much for joining me this morning. I'm Jim Acosta. 
 
Stay with us. "INSIDE POLITICS" with Manu Raju starts after a short break. 
 
Happy shopping, everybody.