Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: White House Pauses An Ammunition Shipment To Israel; Donald Trump's Hush Money Trial Resumes In New York; Floods In Southern Brazil Kill Dozens, 111 People Missing; Judge Finds Trump In Contempt For 10th Time; Vote To Oust House Speaker Johnson Expected This Week; Boeing Prepares Its Starliner's First Nasa-Crewed Launch. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired May 06, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:00:20]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Well, this is the scene outside court in New York City. We're about 30 minutes away from the hush money 
 
 trial resuming after Friday's dramatic and tearful testimony from Donald Trump's Former Spokeswoman Hope Hicks. It's 9 am here in Atlanta. I'm Lynda 
 
 Kinkade in for my colleague Becky Anderson. And this is "Connect the World".
 
Also happening this hour, civilians panicking as the IDF order an evacuation as part of Rafah. French President Emmanuel Macron, welcoming 
 
 China's Xi Jinping in Paris, and we are hours away from the launch of Boeing's Starliner spacecraft with two NASA astronauts onboard.
 
Well terrified and in a state of panic that is how a scene and worker in Eastern Rafah describing the civilian population there after Israel ordered 
 
 them to evacuate. Israel's military says it will launch a quote, limited scale operation in that part of the city to root out Hamas militants.
 
But there's still no indication of exactly when that will happen, adding to the fear today, this massive plume of smoke from an Israeli air strike in 
 
 Eastern Rafah. Israel has been staging airstrikes in the city for months. Gaza officials report more than 26 deaths there overnight, including 
 
 children, while the IDF dropped leaflets urging civilians to move into an area outside of Rafah.
 
A spokesperson for the U.N. Relief Works Agency says -- it's a beach area that is not quite suitable for habitation. All of this while negotiations 
 
 for a ceasefire has stalled but not over. Our Jeremy Diamond is connecting us from Jerusalem. Arlette Saenz is at the White House.
 
Good to have you both with us. I want to start with you first, Jeremy. Given that we've got 100,000 people or so in part of Russia that have been 
 
 asked to evacuate we've seen this leaflet drop, red and blue leaflets. And these are people that have already been displaced multiple times, right?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, that's exactly right. The majority of the folks who are currently living in Rafah, more than a 
 
 million people, many of them have been displaced multiple times, fleeing to that city as kind of a last refuge from this ongoing war in Gaza.
 
But that refuge is about to be disrupted as the Israeli military begins dropping leaflets on a portion of Eastern Rafah, where about 100,000 
 
 civilians are currently living, directing them to move north towards what the Israeli military has described as an expanded humanitarian zone in Al-
 
 Mawasi, as well as in Western Khan Younis where they say that they have fixed a main water line, they have brought in additional tents, food, 
 
 water, medicine, field hospitals are being set up as well.
 
We don't have specific numbers from Israeli military yet on that humanitarian setup in that area. And so major questions still loom about 
 
 whether or not that zone is going to be adequate for the number of people who could quickly be flooding north in fear based off of these evacuation 
 
 warnings.
 
We know that in addition to the 100,000 people who have been directed to evacuate, people in other parts of Rafah are also starting to flee. And 
 
 that is the major concern from humanitarian aid officials, if there is a broader sense of panic that spreads throughout that City of Rafah, where 
 
 more than a million people are currently living.
 
Those humanitarian zones north of Rafah could very, very quickly be over whelmed. The Israeli military says that this is a, quote, limited scale 
 
 operation. But make no mistake, these evacuation orders are without a doubt, the early stages of for a ground offensive into that southern city.
 
And it is all happening, Lynda, as these negotiations between Israel and Hamas appear to have stalled over the weekend, there was a lot of optimism 
 
 that an agreement on this new Egyptian framework could be reached, but two Israeli sources telling me that the talks are now stalled, over what the 
 
 major sticking point which is Hamas has continued demands that any ceasefire agreement must include an Israeli commitment to end the war in 
 
 Gaza altogether.
 
That is something that the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has refused to agree to so far. And so for now, those talks stalled, although 
 
 not dead altogether. The CIA Director Bill Burns is indeed in Doha, Qatar this week, and those negotiations are still ongoing.
 
KINKADE: All right, Jeremy, staying across little farm Jerusalem to stand by for us because I do want to go to Arlette Saenz about this ammunition 
 
 pause. We understand that the Biden Administration has paused, this U.S. made ammunition it was meant to be going to Israel. Do we know whether this 
 
 was a logistics issue or whether they're sending a more serious message ahead of this potential offensive in Rafah?
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well until the Biden administration has yet to detail exactly why there was a pause in this U.S. 
 
 made ammunition that was intended to go to Israel but was paused last week. Now a source familiar with the matter said that this does not have anything 
 
 to do with this potential ground operation Israel could conduct in Rafah and that it would not impact aid shipments going forward.
 
A bit earlier today, Senator Chris Coons, a key member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee did suggest that it was a logistical issue, but 
 
 it certainly could raise concerns about whether the U.S. is trying to send some type of message to Israel as they are weighing this operation into 
 
 Rafah.
 
It comes as the administration has been warning for weeks now that Israel must have a plan in place to ensure the safety and evacuation of the more 
 
 than 1.4 million Palestinians in that area. President Biden spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu about eight days ago where he 
 
 made clear his position when it comes to Rafah.
 
U.S. officials have been in constant communication with the Israelis about these plans for dealing with civilians in Rafah that's that includes 
 
 conversations just last week, were the Israelis briefed the Biden Administration on their thinking relating to the evacuation of Rafah.
 
Now, sources at the time told us that so far, they had not presented a final plan for how they would evacuate all of these citizens. But that also 
 
 hadn't share exactly what an operation would look like. But the White House has viewed a potential operation in Rafah with great concern.
 
Especially at a time when the president is also facing domestic pressure here at home with many in his Democratic Party frustrated with his handling 
 
 of the conflict between Israel and Hamas. So we will see if the White House give us some further explanation as the day progresses as to why they pause 
 
 that shipment of ammunition but they are watching this. These latest moves from Israel relating to evacuating civilians in Eastern Rafah very, very 
 
 closely.
 
KINKADE: All right, we will come back to you if there is an update on that ammunition. Good to have you with us Arlette Saenz. Arlette Saenz outside 
 
 the White House, Jeremy Diamond for us in Jerusalem. Thanks very much. Well Chinese President Xi Jinping is in Paris right now where he's receiving an 
 
 official welcome.
 
Face the first visit to Europe in five years. European leaders have been concerned about Xi's growing ties with Russia amid its war in Ukraine. But 
 
 upon arrival Sunday, he emphasized the importance of maintaining bilateral relations. Our Anna Coren is following the story and joins us now from Hong 
 
 Kong.
 
Good to have you on the story for us, Anna. So we have been seeing those pictures today of the Presidents of China and France meeting, shaking 
 
 hands. I give us a sense of what is at the top of their agenda this trip?
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Lynda, Xi met with the French President as well as the European Commission Chief Ursula Von Der Leyen, a little while 
 
 ago for about an hour at Elysee Palace -- in Paris and Von der Leyen she said that they had an open and honest exchange. Now top of the agenda is 
 
 trade with the EU, but also the war in Ukraine now in its third year.
 
And look, China's support for Russia's wartime economy is obviously a huge issue. For the Europeans and Macron and Von der Leyen no doubt earlier 
 
 today reiterated the U.S. calls for China to stop exports to Russia of that dual-use and other technologies that are really propping up Russia's war 
 
 effort.
 
And look, I think it's important to note, Lynda that Vladimir Putin, Russia's President is traveling to Beijing later this month. I think it 
 
 really reinforces the closeness in that relationship between Russia and China obviously a great concern to the Europeans. Now on the issue of 
 
 trade, the EU is looking for more balanced trade.
 
They believe that unequal market access in Chinese state subsidies are hurting European companies and Von Der Leyen. She has called on the EU to 
 
 de-risk its supply chains away from China and to probe the influx of Chinese EVs into Europe. Now, Xi has said that he wants more Chinese 
 
 companies to invest in France and there are reports that China will place an order with airbus for around 50 plans that would be a huge contract if 
 
 that comes off.
 
But analysts are saying that this visit is much more than just shoring up trade. This is part of China's strategy to really exploit the differences 
 
 inside Europe. And that 27 nation bloc as we know Germany -- takes a much softer stance on China, particularly on that EV probe. Macron will shortly 
 
 be holding a -- with Xi. We may be looking at those live pictures there.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
They will then hold a joint press conference before a state dinner. And then after Paris, the two men will travel to the Pyrenees Mountains in the 
 
 South. This is a special place for Emmanuel Macron. I believe it's the home of his maternal grandmother. And that's where they will share some personal 
 
 one on one time.
 
Look, after France, Xi will be traveling to Serbia and then on to Hungary. These as we know, two pro-Russian countries and the very welcoming of 
 
 Chinese investment, we understand that the Chinese specifically had these countries in order so that he would get this very warm reception at the end 
 
 of his European trip, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yeah. And as you're speaking, we're just looking at these live pitches, obviously, the President Xi Jinping of China, President Emmanuel 
 
 Macron of France, we just saw the first ladies of those two countries posing for photos there. Of course, Anna, it's been six years since the 
 
 establishment of diplomatic ties between these two nations.
 
Xi has described this trip as a win-win for both countries. And what sort of progress have they made so far? And why is this, his first trip there in 
 
 six years and why France?
 
COREN: Well, look, as you say, I mean, this is his second visit in something like five years. So obviously, these two countries hold a close 
 
 relationship. And Xi has made it perfectly clear that he wants to maintain that they can have separate ideologies, but also come together. I think 
 
 that's what we're going to see on this visit.
 
Obviously, Xi wants to walk away with something but that one on one time, I think that's really interesting, these two leaders will be spending time 
 
 together, something that you don't normally see. So perhaps that indicates that the closest of that relationship but as you say, 60 years of 
 
 diplomatic relations. So this is something that China is certainly celebrating.
 
KINKADE: And as you pointed out, Xi next goes to Serbia, and Hungary. Hungary, of course, is more aligned with Russia, supporting Russia's war in 
 
 Ukraine, and certainly a thorn in Europe's side. We're going to leave it there for now. But we will continue to come back to this as these meetings 
 
 take place throughout the evening.
 
Good to have you with us, Anna Coren, for us in Hong Kong. Thank you. We want to get you to New York now with Donald Trump hush money trial resumes 
 
 just a few minutes from now. Omar Jimenez is outside the court in Manhattan. Good to see you, Omar.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good to see you, Lynda. Yeah, Trump's motorcade is arriving at the Manhattan courthouse where we expect things to 
 
 get going in just a few minutes. Now we're set to hear new witness testimony after the trial resumes, as I mentioned, a little less than 20 
 
 minutes from now or so.
 
But we're still waiting to hear who the next witness will actually be. Now on Friday, the jury heard from Hope Hicks. She's the closest Trump 
 
 associate yet to take the stand. In this case, former spoke a press secretary for his campaign and Comms director at the White House.
 
Brynn Gingras is with me outside the court to look at what's in store for Trump today. So Brynn, you've been in and out throughout the course of this 
 
 trial. Obviously, I know you were paying attention to Hope Hicks testimony on Friday. It seems that both sides got a little bit out of her. What was 
 
 your read on what we saw?
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, I mean, I think the prosecution is getting a little bit closer to what they need to prove for 
 
 these jurors right that he actually knew about the hush money payment, and he did it to influence the election and Hope Hicks did give some points for 
 
 the prosecution.
 
You know, at one point, you brought up the fact that when that Wall Street Journal article came out in 2018, acknowledging that there was this payment 
 
 made that Trump said to Hope that he was happy or that it came out then before the 2020 election.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah.
 
GINGRAS: So not the same election we're talking about, but certainly acknowledging that he knew about this payment. So it's interesting to see 
 
 how jurors might have read that she also talked about Michael Cohen a lot. And on the prosecution side, she kind of hinted that, you know, Michael 
 
 Cohen wouldn't make these payments if he didn't have some sort of direction.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah.
 
GINGRAS: So that again, says, you know, he had to have gotten direction somewhere. She didn't explicitly say, Michael Cohen, but certainly that is 
 
 something that the jurors could have gleaned from.
 
JIMENEZ: And you know you touched on an important point that while a lot of this so far has focused on the hush money aspect of this, obviously, the 
 
 case itself is over falsifying business records. But what was the defense able to get out of Hope Hicks that some saw as a win here.
 
GINGRAS: Yeah. And listen, they are chipping away one of the credibility of Michael Cohen, who's going to be the star witness for the prosecution. They 
 
 just keep hammering at home with these different witnesses that take the stand for the prosecution. When it came to Hope Hicks, she kind of talks 
 
 about how Michael Cohen go rogue for the campaign that almost he was just a burden on them.
 
And you know, she made this great quote, that said he liked to call himself a fixer and Mr. Fixer and it was only because he first broke it that he was 
 
 then able to fix it. That was a great line because it kind of gave you a sense that he was just a thorn in their side, which for the defense, it's 
 
 showing like he may have just done it on his own, you know.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
And so also she talks about him as a family man that the former president, how he valued Melania as opinion he never really want to embarrass his 
 
 family. So it kind of puts that in juror's minds. Did he do this, because he was embarrassed about it and didn't want his family to really know about 
 
 it, or did he do it for more, you know, the reason that prosecutors are alleging which is to fix the election, basically?
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah, it'll be really interesting to follow, Brynn really appreciate it. As we mentioned, you know, court gets underway in just a few 
 
 minutes here in New York, for the most part, things have focused on the hush money aspects of this as far as prosecutorial witnesses go.
 
GINGRAS: Yeah.
 
JIMENEZ: We'll see if that then shifts over with this next one is but we do not know who this next witness is going to be. Hopefully we get that answer 
 
 soon. But for now, I'm going to send it back to you, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: All right. Good to have you there for us outside court. We will come back to you shortly. What despite Trump's legal problems, he's still 
 
 running neck and neck with President Joe Biden, now six months ahead of the election, seen as latest poll of polls shows no clear leader in the 
 
 presidential race at the moment.
 
47 percent of voters favored Trump while 46 percent support Biden. The poll of polls includes four of the most recent national polls. Well still to 
 
 come in Kenya a new week but the same forecast after several weeks of devastating floods. More heavy rain for areas already saturated, and a 
 
 rising death toll will detail the dozens still missing.
 
That's straight ahead and a live report. Plus, in Texas the family hit by tragedy as search and rescue teams patrol neighborhoods underwater from the 
 
 torrential rains there. We'll be live in one of the worst hit counties.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. In Kenya more of the same bad weather I'm afraid for the East African nation. After weeks of devastating and deadly floods more 
 
 heavy rain ahead for places already saturated. Flash floods have killed at least 228 people leaving dozens more missing and more than 200,000 people 
 
 have been displaced.
 
Well the -- deluge has some Kenyans in despair at one point in just two days. The county got more than half a month's rainfall. Experts say global 
 
 warming is partly to blame for what's happening. Well our Larry Madowo joins me now from Nairobi. So Larry, week after week of heavy rain and 
 
 flooding, is there any sign of relief inside?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Not just yet, Lynda, this is what it looks like after two months of sustained rainfall. But Kenya MET department 
 
 predicted a few months ago that Kenya will receive enhanced rainfall, because of the El Nino weather phenomenon and disorder it looks like.
 
So we're in one of Nairobi's wealthiest neighborhoods. There are high end properties here, multimillion dollar homes that are now submerged.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Some of them because they're built on riparian land, right on river banks despite government guidance and advice and that's what you're seeing here 
 
 flowing from eight different areas here in June that this exclusive property
 
Thanks despite government guidance and advice, and that's what you're seeing here flowing from eight different areas here in -- this exclusive 
 
 property zone in Nairobi flooded, crossing over here. This is still one of the most exclusive addresses in Nairobi. The U.S. Embassy is just a few 100 
 
 meters that way, the U.N. Office in Nairobi similar direction.
 
And yet, this is what the road here looks like. Technically, this road is closed. Even though nobody's following that attend that guidance. They're 
 
 still driving past, risking their lives, because in the two months since we've seen this heavy rainfall, we've seen people getting swept away on 
 
 motorbikes like that gentleman over there, on foot, and even in small cars like this coming through.
 
But still, despite all this advice and guidance, people keep risking, crossing flooded roads and rivers. And after again, two months of sustained 
 
 rainfall, a lot of streams, a lot of dams, a lot of rivers are overflowing, and the death toll keeps climbing. Last week was the deadliest yet more 
 
 than 100 people died in just one week.
 
The death toll across the country right now more than 228. President William Ruto has just announced that every one of the 40,000 households 
 
 that have been displaced by the flooding will receive about 10,000 shillings that's just under $75 to help them settle in as they figure out 
 
 what to do with them.
 
Some of them will need to be completely resettled away from riverbanks. Some of them will have to rebuild, especially those who have lost 
 
 everything in their homes that are now submerged, but it's still the rain is forecasted to continue, President Ruto said it might continue throughout 
 
 this month into next month.
 
Though some other models say we're now in a more moderate bit of rainfall is moving upwards north into Sudan, South Sudan and Ethiopia. But this 
 
 entire region has gone through the cycles of extreme rainfall and then droughts. They just finished the worst drought in 40 years after five 
 
 failed rainy seasons. And now this, the -- Lynda, that's why so many people here say these are the real effects of climate change.
 
KINKADE: Yeah, exactly. Larry Madowo for us, good to have you there on the scene for us in Nairobi, thank you. Well catastrophic flooding has claimed 
 
 at least 83 lives in Southern Brazil and at least 111 people remain missing, more than 120,000 forced from their homes. People have told CNN 
 
 they've seen dead bodies floating in the water. Julia Vargas Jones has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JULIA VARGAS JONES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Waist deep in floodwaters, civilian volunteers work tirelessly to rescue those still 
 
 stranded. On four by four vehicles at first, helping residents save their most precious belongings, there where roads become rivers, they switch to 
 
 canoes.
 
I'm wet, this little girl says. Aren't you a mermaid? The volunteer replies. You're OK. This volunteer telling CNN, his team rescued more than 
 
 60 people on Sunday. Many children, elderly are with mobility issues.
 
ALLAN COLLAR JACINO, VOLUNTEER RESCUER: (Foreign language)
 
JONES (voice-over): It was really stressful. There's just so much water. We're worried about the people still stranded without cell signal he says. 
 
 I saw so many people cry today he says. Having lost everything, their homes, their pets left behind. But help is also coming from the skies, this 
 
 rescue unit using a brick to open a hole on the roof of a flooded house where they pull out this baby.
 
COLONEL JOSE CARLOS SALLET, SUBCOMMANDER OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL FIRE DEPARTMENT: (Foreign language)
 
JONES (voice-over): The scenes are devastating. People are in complete despair. The fire sub commander says bodies have been recovered from 
 
 floodwaters. Authorities call this the worst natural disaster to ever hit Brazil's far south, a state larger than the United Kingdom. Relentless rain 
 
 has flooded over 300 towns displacing more than 100,000 and affecting more than a quarter of a million people.
 
This is the state's fourth catastrophic flood in one year in the capital Porto Alegre historical landmarks under water in the seawall holding the 
 
 weight of calamity on Friday, now, with water on both sides. At the airport flights are grounded as rain has not relented. President Luiz Inacio Lula 
 
 da Silva calling the floods a climate disaster and promising federal aid.
 
LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT: Because he owes so much to Rio Grande do Sul in all aspects, what we are doing is giving the state 
 
 where it deserves. There will be no bureaucratic obstacles for us to recover the grandiosity of this state.
 
JONES (voice-over): The town of Canoas, meaning canoes in Portuguese received the brunt of the rain. Patients had to be evacuated from its main 
 
 hospital before it was almost entirely submerged.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
In this neighborhood, residents say evacuation alerts came too late and they could only leave by flagging down a boat like this one and hoping they 
 
 can one day return home. Julia Vargas Jones, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, millions of people across the U.S. are also trying to cope with a nightmare of severe weather. The National Weather Service is warning 
 
 of a tornado threat, and more than 25 million people in the South and Central Plains are under severe storm threats. It comes as search and 
 
 rescue teams in parts of Texas are patrolling neighborhoods, keeping an eye out for people stuck in floodwaters.
 
So far more than 200 people have been rescued from homes and vehicles in the Houston area. But sadly one little boy died, four year old Lucas Warren 
 
 swept away by the Texas floods. Well CNN's Rosa Flores has been talking to first responders in Harris County, Texas about the people they've helped 
 
 evacuate.
 
She joins us now I just want to start with that, that really tragic story that four year old he lost his life. What do we know about the 
 
 circumstances of his family?
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know his mom spoke to NBC DFW. I'm going to pull my earpiece. I'm having technical difficulties there. But 
 
 Lynda, his mother spoke to NBC DFW and she says that her son's name is Lucas Warren, and that he's four years old, and that the family so mom, 
 
 dad, and son were driving it was during the storm.
 
They were driving through a road that normally floods. This mom says that there was no barricade stopping them from going through the road, but that 
 
 the road was flooded, and eventually their car battery died, water started going into the vehicle. And these parents decided to get out of the vehicle 
 
 to try to get to safety.
 
And that the mother treaded water with a child for a while and then she told NBC DFW the following quote, a current came up real high and just let 
 
 go. And I didn't hear anything from him. I think he just went under. Now she went on to say that rescuers arrived moments later, but it was too 
 
 late, her son was gone, taken by the waters, and his body was recovered hours later.
 
Now she says that her son was weeks away from turning five years old. Now we reached out to the Johnson County Office of Emergency Management asking 
 
 about that road that didn't have a barricade. I'm actually waiting for them to respond to my request for comment. But just to give you a sense that 
 
 tragedy with that child happened near Dallas, Texas.
 
I'm in Harris County, which is close to Houston, Texas. And it's the same storm system. Now we have video that we shot yesterday, we wrote along with 
 
 the Harris County Sheriff's Office. This is a team of first responders that was going door to door asking people if they wanted to go to higher ground.
 
Now this is an area that is part of the mandatory evacuation zone. Some people decided not to evacuate, not to take this opportunity to go to 
 
 higher ground. In fact, first responders told us that one of the most difficult parts of their jobs is when they extend their arm to somebody 
 
 who's in a life threatening situation.
 
And that individual decides that they don't want to take the help, they don't want to evacuate. Now we talked to those first responders about some 
 
 of the biggest challenges that they're facing. And here's what they had to say. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEPUTY DARRELL BAILEY, HARRIS COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE: Biggest challenges that we primarily have is it's just the elements of -- the water because 
 
 you don't know what's in the water, whether there's ants, where there's snakes, where there's wet weather spiders is going to be the biggest 
 
 challenge. But we do our best to get out the boat and get them into the boat best possibly can.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FLORES: Now, Lynda, just to give you a sense of how quickly the water recedes here, you saw that video of us on the boat, you saw the first 
 
 responders, the water levels there. I mean, we were seeing stop signs that were at eye level. Well, that area is where I'm standing right now. And 
 
 that was less than 24 hours ago.
 
And yes, you see some ponding in the background. But, Lynda, that gives you a sense of how quickly water recedes. And that amount and quantity of water 
 
 that was here. That also gives you a sense of how quickly water can rise. And that's why first responders and officials warn people not to drive 
 
 through rising waters because it raises just that quickly it becomes very, very dangerous.
 
KINKADE: Yeah, they need to heed those warnings Rosa Flores for us good to have you on this story thank you very much. Well still to come, Donald 
 
 Trump's criminal hush money trial now entering its fourth week, we're going to look at some of the potential witnesses who may soon take the stand in a 
 
 live report. Stay with us. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:33:09]
 
JIMENEZ: Welcome back, everyone. I'm Omar Jimenez. Right now, we are outside the courthouse in Manhattan for the start of the fourth week of 
 
 Donald Trump's historic criminal trial. Now the former U.S. president has pleaded not guilty to falsifying business records to cover up a hush money 
 
 payment to adult film actress Stormy Daniels.
 
Prosecutors say it was all part of an attempt to mislead voters in the 2016 election. Now on Friday, the jury heard from Former White House 
 
 Communications Director, Hope Hicks. She's the closest Trump associate yet to testify in the trial. We are still waiting to hear who the next witness 
 
 will be.
 
But we are learning from court the judge has now held Donald Trump in contempt of court for the 10th time tied to gag order violations and even 
 
 saying your continued willful violations of this court's lawful order constitute a direct attack on the rule of law. 
 
I want to bring in CNN, Jessica Schneider, who has been following this trial closely for us from Washington. What more are we hearing from the 
 
 judge here? And what is the significance of this 10th contempt ruling by the judge?
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Omar, we're seeing the judge here Judge Juan Merchan get very stern with Trump in a way that I don't 
 
 think we've yet seen. He is in fact instituting that 10th violation of the gag order imposing a fine it will likely be about $1,000 as we've seen in 
 
 the previous nine violations.
 
So yes, this is a 10th violation. And we're hearing the judge really cracked down on Donald Trump. I mean, saying the magnitude of this decision 
 
 is not lost on me. But at the end of the day, I have a job to do. So as much as I don't want to impose a jail sanction, I want you to understand 
 
 that I will if necessary and appropriate.
 
Remember, this is something that the judge previously warned when he issued the previous gag order violation. And now he's reiterating to Donald Trump 
 
 that so far it's been $1,000 fine for each violation, but that this judge has said essentially the next time Donald Trump violates this gag order, 
 
 the judge may have no choice but to impose jail time.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
So this is sort of the last strike essentially for Donald Trump. So we saw the arguments last week for the gag order violations. There were four total 
 
 gag order violations alleged by the prosecution, it appears that the judge has just issued a fine for one of those violations making a total of 10 now 
 
 that Donald Trump has been found in violation of.
 
So that is how we are starting off this Monday morning, a very stern warning to Donald Trump. I assume as soon as these proceedings are over 
 
 where the judge has issued his decision that a new witness will take the stand. I'm looking at the left side of the screen right now their 
 
 discussing defense objections to evidence the prosecutors plan to introduce.
 
But presumably in the next few minutes, we will see this new witness take the stand. Of course, it's still a mystery as to who will be the question, 
 
 will it be another sort of underwhelming witness that is just used by prosecutors to get certain documents into evidence as we saw a few times 
 
 last week.
 
Or will it be someone directly related to Donald Trump, as we saw on Friday with Hope Hicks? You know, Omar, we're still waiting for big witnesses, 
 
 including Stormy Daniels, and potentially the key to this case, Michael Cohen. So will that be this week? You know, we're in session 4 days this 
 
 week. So there could be a lot of activity from prosecutors when it comes to big witnesses that they may or may not call, Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah, Jessica and the judge saying in similar fashion to the other contempt rulings that Trump has to delete the truth social accounts that 
 
 are effect or the truth social postings, excuse me, effect here by 2:15 this afternoon. So similar deadlines to what we've seen in the past. 
 
 Jessica, really appreciate it.
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes.
 
JIMENEZ: And as she mentioned, you can see on the left side of your screen here, the updates that we are getting live from in court because we don't 
 
 have cameras in court you can follow along as we're having this discussion. The discussion now that I'm about to have with Bernarda Villalona joins me 
 
 now.
 
She's a criminal defense attorney and former New York prosecutor. So I just want to get your read on what we're learning from court right now. As 
 
 Jessica mentioned, there were four alleged gag order violations. It does seem that the judge only ruled on one here and saying that the $1,000 
 
 punishments don't seem to be working.
 
The next step may have to be jail time. What's your reaction? What's your read on what we're hearing from a judge here?
 
BERNARDA VILLALONA, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, I'm not surprised that Judge Merchan actually sustained one of those violations. I think it's the 
 
 one having to deal with the mention of the jury -- because the jury, of course, that was a clear violation from his order. But in terms of the 
 
 $1,000 sanction, I'm not surprised as to that.
 
I'm not surprised that he reiterated the threat that I will put you in jail if you continue to violate my order. He didn't do it this time, because 
 
 clearly when he rendered his decision on the other violations, it was last week. And these statements were made prior to that ruling, itself. But it's 
 
 something that Judge Merchan is going to hold Donald Trump. So he will incarcerate him.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah. And that, of course, would be an extraordinary step that we're seeing here. And we're also as I should mention, we're waiting to see 
 
 who the next witness will be in this case? As I mentioned, you can see some of the updates on your screen lawyers are still discussing defense 
 
 objections at the moment.
 
But let's go to the last witness that we heard from Hope Hicks. She was a Campaign Press Secretary for Trump White House Communications Director once 
 
 he was in office. What's your reaction to her testimony as far as what the prosecution was able to get out of her? And what the defense was able to 
 
 get out of her during cross examination?
 
VILLALONA: So Hope Hicks was a very emotional witness, I think she was a witness that came off credible on both sides. So Hope Hicks was able to get 
 
 the prosecution, the mindset, the urgency, how important it was to try to get this story away from the cameras, because of the timeline, because we 
 
 have the Access Hollywood videotape coming out.
 
And then to another story like that of Stormy Daniels will completely have killed Donald Trump's chances of being elected. So she gave us the urgency 
 
 of it. She also gave us who Michael Cohen was in the sense of his importance to that campaign. While at times she said, oh, he really didn't 
 
 work for that campaign.
 
But yet when something went down, who was the first call? It was to Michael Cohen, the fixer. Michael Cohen, also -- she was able to get out that 
 
 Michael Cohen out of his own kindness of his heart would not have paid $130,000. And I think that was crucial right there to the point that the 
 
 prosecutor after that question didn't even ask any more questions kind of like dropped the mic on the jury for them.
 
Now in terms for the defense, the defense to get some key points, one humanize in Donald Trump, also bringing out the light that Donald Trump did 
 
 care about this information hitting his family or about his wife finding out about that, but most importantly, one of the first questions was, is 
 
 that Donald Trump was not aware at least was not aware of what really was going on.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
But I think that's something that the jury is going to be able to decipher as to whether what his true knowledge was. But also I have to add that she 
 
 also added as an insider, that Donald Trump had key insights to any major decision being made having to deal with the campaign and dealing with 
 
 anything having to deal with his character and his credibility.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah. And, you know, there were previous prosecutorial witnesses that tried to paint the opposite saying that Michael Cohen would not have 
 
 acted without the direction of someone else that they did not get the impression he had the power to make this hush money payment at the time.
 
But on that latter point, I want to make a key distinction that I know you and I have talked about that so far, we focus a lot on the hush money 
 
 aspect of this on the sort of motivations of this, but that's not what's being charged here. This is a trial around falsifying business records. At 
 
 what point do you see the witness testimony and the trial really transitioning from that aspect into what is actually alleged here?
 
VILLALONA: Well, we're entering into what this is a third week of trial testimony, I believe that the prosecution says start putting in those 
 
 foundation witnesses now having to deal with the general ledgers having to deal with the invoices, having to deal with the checks and the check stub.
 
So you're going to start hearing from those witnesses this week, because, as you said, this case is about falsifying business records. So we have to 
 
 get those records before the jury itself. The question will be what witnesses would they use to get those records in front of the jury, we know 
 
 at least as to the invoices, because Michael Cohen is a person who drafted those invoices, who did put that as for legal expenses and expenses, 
 
 subject to the retainer agreement that Michael Cohen will be able to put into invoices.
 
But what I'm expecting to see is witnesses from the Trump organization that actually received the invoices, sent it to accounts payable got it approved 
 
 to ultimately have these checks cut for Stormy Daniels' Attorney. 
 
The interesting part is that if the prosecution really wanted to get the person that was really directly involved in terms of getting these invoice 
 
 and these checks cut, they'll bring Allen Weisselberg. And where do we know Allen Weisselberg is either in jail, he's at Rikers Island.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah.
 
VILLALONA: Doing his sentence on perjury. So obviously, you're not going to hear from him. So they're going to have to prove it circumstantially to 
 
 Michael Cohen, and also having to bring in members from the Trump Organization to set the foundation to get those records.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah.
 
VILLALONA: But we do know that nine of those checks were directly signed by Donald Trump.
 
JIMENEZ: Yeah, Bernarda, I really appreciate you taking the time for folks following along. We did just get in the next witness will be Jeffrey 
 
 McConney. He's a Trump Organization Controller to the stand where we will likely see. Some of what we talked about play out in the form of witness 
 
 testimony.
 
We're going to have more on the Trump trial soon for now though. I'm going to turn back to Lynda Kinkade in Atlanta. She's following the rest of the 
 
 day's top stories.
 
KINKADE: Yeah, thanks so much, Omar. I appreciate it. Well, Capitol Hill is gearing up for a showdown this week. Mike Johnson could find himself 
 
 fending off another vote to oust him as House Speaker. On one side, Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene and a group of hardliners who want 
 
 Johnson gone, on the other side, Republicans and Democrats who say they'll kill the effort. Greene is forging ahead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): -- and what you guys need to know is I really don't give a -- what anybody up here says about what I'm doing. I 
 
 care completely about the people of this country, and I cannot wait to put the Union Party on record next week.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, so chaos could be brewing on Capitol Hill. CNN's Lauren Fox is there. She brings us the latest. Certainly -- fighting words from 
 
 Marjorie Taylor Greene wanting to -- the speaker yet again, working with two hardliners to push this resolution. Will she get the numbers?
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, obviously we are watching this see when she actually moves ahead. She has warned that she 
 
 wants to take the step this week to try to vacate the speaker. But what is becoming very clear is she doesn't have the votes.
 
There are a number of Republicans who are expected to join her too who have publicly come out in support Paul Gosar of Arizona and Thomas Massie of 
 
 Kentucky, but the three Republicans won't be able to get this done on their own. And that is because there are Democrats who are saying that they are 
 
 unified now in trying to table this resolution, essentially killing it when it comes to the floor.
 
The reason for this, according to Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries, is they don't want to see the house cast back into the kind of chaos that you 
 
 saw in October when Kevin McCarthy was ousted just a few months ago. Their argument is that having a speaker list house means that you can't get any 
 
 legislative business done. Congress can't be prepared if there were to be some kind of national security event. They can't respond to it. 
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
I mean just to go back to October 7th attack actually happened after Kevin McCarthy was ousted from the speakership. Congress could do nothing. They 
 
 couldn't send additional aid to Israel. They also couldn't even pass a simple resolution saying they supported Israel, because they were speaker 
 
 less.
 
So Democrats arguing they don't want the House to be overtaken by people like Marjorie Taylor Greene, who they say are on the fringes. The majority 
 
 of Republicans disagree with the actions that she wants to take. Again we don't know specifically what today she is going to charge ahead. She could 
 
 move forward as soon as 2 pm this afternoon, we'll be keeping a close eye on the House floor which is just feet away from me.
 
KINKADE: All right. Chaos on the Capitol, Lauren Fox, good to have you on the story for us thank you. Still to come, the world reacts to Israel's 
 
 decision to ban Al Jazeera from the country. We're following the backlash next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. U.S. President Joe Biden will speak by phone with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the coming hours according to 
 
 sources. It comes into the Biden Administration closely watches this situation in Rafah after the Israeli military ordered the evacuation of 
 
 part of the city of Gaza.
 
Well, the United Nations and human rights groups condemning Israel's decision to ban Al Jazeera from the country. On Monday, the German foreign 
 
 officers said Israel shutting down Al Jazeera's operations in the country sends the quote, wrong signal.
 
Well, the network's communication equipment was confiscated Sunday, following the announcement by Israel's government. Meantime, Israel 
 
 continues to prevent international media from going in to Gaza. Our Hadas Gold is covering the story from New York and joins us now live.
 
Good to have you with us. So we've had criticism from the Israeli government of Al Jazeera for a long time. We've heard Netanyahu's 
 
 government call them the mouthpiece of Hamas. Just explain to us how this unfolded?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think it's important to note that this unprecedented move and this is a rare move is not happening in a 
 
 vacuum. And it's not just about the Israeli government's issues without Al Jazeera's coverage.
 
You have to look at the larger geopolitical ramifications here. You know, Al Jazeera is based and owned in Qatar. Qatar, of course has been a key 
 
 part of the mediation attempts negotiation attempts between Israel and Hamas. And some analysts are suggesting that actually deciding to pull the 
 
 plug in Al Jazeera right now is part of an overall pressure campaign tied to the negotiations over hostage release and ceasefire and tied to a 
 
 pressure campaign over a possible military operation in Rafah.
 
Now, the ability to even close Al Jazeera is a new one. This is a relatively new law that was recently passed in Israel. Now this closure is 
 
 technically temporary for about 45 days. It can be renewed, they can't broadcast within the country, but it's not clear whether their reporters 
 
 will be prevented from working within the country.
 
Israeli government, as you noted, has accused Al Jazeera of being a male altarpiece for Hamas saying they're broadcasting these militants and 
 
 terrorists messages without any sort of criticism or context around them. 
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
Al Jazeera has maintained one of the rare abilities to broadcast 24 hours from the Gaza Strip. They still have reporters there. And I should note 
 
 that several of their reporters have been killed and wounded. Now, Al Jazeera accuses the Israeli military of purposely targeting their 
 
 journalists and other journalists something that the Israeli military has denied.
 
Now, this has been condemned by media organizations, free press organizations, as you know that the United Nations the Foreign Press 
 
 Association that's based in Jerusalem called it a dark day for the media saying this is a dark day for democracy saying that Israel joins a dubious 
 
 club of authoritarian governments who are banning Al Jazeera.
 
Look, there's no question that Al Jazeera comes from a certain point of view and that their coverage is from a certain point of view that the 
 
 Israeli government might not agree with. But I don't think that anybody can argue with the fact that pulling the plug on a media organization in a 
 
 country that claims to be the only democratic country in the Middle East that doesn't really align with those claims Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yeah, exactly. Hadas Gold good to have you on the story and we will be speaking with the Director of News Al Jazeera English in the next 
 
 hour of "Connect the World". Well, I want to get you up to speed on some other stories on our radar right now. 
 
Bodies found in the Mexican State of Baja, California Friday have been confirmed to be three missing surfers. The two Australian Brothers and 
 
 their American friend went missing April 29th. On Sunday, the state attorney general said that three victims have been killed by gunshots to 
 
 the head.
 
Kyiv says thousands of Ukrainians have been sent to Russian prisons where they're being held as bargaining chips. This comes as Russian airstrikes 
 
 bombarded Ukraine's Kharkiv region. At least one person was killed and 24 injured in drone and bomb attacks as people celebrated orthodox Easter on 
 
 Sunday. We're counting down to a crucial space launch what's at stake as Boeing's Starliner gears up for its first ever crewed mission?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, big task for Boeing as just hours away is preparing to launch its Starliner Spacecraft with two NASA astronauts on board. And it's 
 
 a critical mission for the aerospace giant which has been battling safety issues on some of its passenger jets, whose combined Boeing NASA mission to 
 
 the International Space Station has been made and delays so all eyes will be on Cape Canaveral Monday night, Florida time for the planned liftoff.
 
Well, time now to NASA Astronaut and Former Commander of the International Space Station Leroy Chiao has been talking to CNN about what's at stake for 
 
 Boeing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CCLIP)
 
LEROY CHIAO, RETIRED NASA ASTRONAUT: They've suffered a lot of problems in their airplane business and of course, their space business as a separate 
 
 unit. But they've had their share of problems with the Starliner Two. I mean, Boeing was given a contract or you know the same kind of a deal that 
 
 start SpaceX was given several years ago.
 
SpaceX has been flying astronauts to the ISS for the last 3.5 years. Boeing was given almost twice as much money because they were the ones that knew 
 
 how to do it. And here they are playing catch up.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Now we will speak to him next hour on the -- is described as having an interior space similar to a mid-size SUV which means a bit more 
 
 room for astronauts Barry Wilmore and Sunita Williams who will pilot the Starliner.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIAO: Space capsule by their nature much smaller than say the space shuttle was. But this particular capsule, 4.5 meter base as you mentioned, 
 
 much bigger than the Soyuz, the Russian Soyuz that many of us -- many of us flew to the space station, I'm including myself on my last flight, three 
 
 meter base outside diameter of the Soyuz spacecraft.
 
So, the spacecraft was designed to take four. And so with just two of them inside, they'll have a little more room, and it's a modern spacecraft so 
 
 they should have a lot more comfort than say, for example on the rest of the stories, which -- has flown aboard.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: All right, that will be a good mission to watch indeed. And we will talk about that more next hour. That's it for this hour of "Connect 
 
 the World". I'm Lynda Kinkade. I'll be back with much more in just a short while, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END