Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: GOP Candidates Campaign Ahead Of New Hampshire Primary; Biden, Harris To Hold Year's 1st Joint Event Tuesday in Virginia; Fears of Regional Conflict Grow After Strikes In Iraq And Syria. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired January 21, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(MUSIC)
 <br>[08:00:47]
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR:  Favorite day of the week, hands down. 
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR:  For me, not for you. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Well, this week it is. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BLACKWELL:  Sunday, January 21st. Welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. Good to have you. I'm Victor Blackwell.
 
WALKER:  And I'm Amara Walker. Thank you so much for being with us this morning. 
 
We begin this morning in New Hampshire on the 2024 presidential hopefuls. They are making their closing arguments to voters ahead of the state's primary on Tuesday.
 
Nikki Haley is betting heavily on a strong finish in New Hampshire, holding a half a dozen events in this state. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis will also be in the state after some confusion about his path forward. 
 
BLACKWELL:  DeSantis spent Saturday campaigning in South Carolina. Their primary is more than a month away. And then it canceled to Sunday morning TV appearances, including an interview with CNN. He cited scheduling issues. 
 
Minnesota Congressman Dean Phillips, who's mounting a long shot challenge to President Biden is holding two events today. 
 
Yesterday, Haley and Trump, they ramped up attacks on one another. Haley questioned Trump's mental fitness after he appeared to confuse her with former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. 
 
And CNN's Alayna Treene is live in New Hampshire.
 
What are you seeing? The scarf came off. So, apparently, a warmed up a degree or two. What are you seeing there in New Hampshire? ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  Yeah. Well, Victor and Amara, good
 
 morning. 
 
And there's two days left until the New Hampshire primaries and we saw Donald Trump and Nikki Haley deliver their closing arguments to New Hampshire voters over the weekend. Ron DeSantis, though, for his part, he was in South Carolina yesterday, and I think that just underscores his strategy here. Unlike in Iowa where he aggressively campaigned in the state in the lead-up to the caucuses, he hasn't spent a lot of time in the Granite State, and so that's really led a lot of people to view this as a two-way race between Haley and Trump in New Hampshire. 
 
Now, Haley has been doing very well in the polls. It's something I know from my conversations with Trump's team is a bit of a concern for them and she's polling especially well with moderate and independent voters. 
 
Now, independent voters can vote in Tuesday's primary. And so, that's also leading her campaign to feel pretty confident about her chances on Tuesday. Now, Donald Trump has really been ramping up his rhetoric, urging voters not to get complacent. We heard him say that exact same line in Iowa as well. He's telling voters here to ignore the polls and, you know, not allow his commanding lead in the post to keep them from coming out and voting for him. 
 
Now, I can also say that his campaign really does believe if he can win by large enough margins on Tuesday, they think it will effectively end the primary season early and force Haley and DeSantis out of the race. 
 
WALKER:  So, you're ion New Hampshire. The primary is on Tuesday, and you have Trump parading a host of South Carolina leaders this weekend at his campaign rallies. What's his strategy? 
 
TREENE:  Right? Well, you'd think, you know, South Carolina is still a couple of weeks away, but there is a broader strategy behind him doing that. He's really trying to argue that Nikki Haley is not very well liked by people in her own backyard. That's why you saw Donald Trump parade a series of the South Carolina leaders on stage last night at his rally in Manchester, New Hampshire. 
 
And he essentially said, look, they are supporting me, not Nikki Haley. And what does that say about her? 
 
Take a listen to what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Almost every politician from South Carolina is endorsing me. How do you do that when she was the governor? The radical left Democrats, they're supporting Nikki Haley for one reason because they know she's very easy to beat. She's going to be very easy to beat. She's them. 
 
That's why I'm so proud to be joined today by an incredible group of leaders from Nikki's home state of South Carolina, where we'll be in about three weeks. We'll be there in three weeks.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE:  Now, Victor and Amara, I will say that he also mentioned last night that part of the reason he was bringing these leaders on stages because he recognizes South Carolina close -- is close and he wants to kiss up to them is the rhetoric that Donald Trump use. 
 
But I also think what's interesting is this comes after Tim Scott, the senator of South Carolina, endorsed Donald Trump on Friday.
 <br>[08:05:05]
 
We saw the Trump campaign really play up that endorsement and tried to make it a moment. I think that strategy behind that is really the timing of this. And I think that's very significant here, rather than using these leaders in the lead-up in the final days before the South Carolina primary, they're choosing to have them here in New Hampshire because they really do think that this is an argument that will undercut Haley's momentum.
 
BLACKWELL:  Alayna Treene, braving the winds out there, thanks so much 
 
So, former President Trump is the front runner overall, but his lead in New Hampshire is a little narrower here. Haley has surged in recent months and cut Trump's lead in New Hampshire to single digits. That's according to the latest CNN poll. 
 
WALKER:  Now, she's making a pitch to New Hampshire's large number of independent and undeclared voters. 
 
Last night, she repeated her argument that both Biden and Trump are too old and that the country needs generational change.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HALEY:  When you're 80, that's what happens. You're just not as sharp as you used to be. There is a decline. And this is a situation where our country is very vulnerable right now. 
 
And we can't just have four years, we've got to have eight years of somebody that's on it all the time. I'm worried that we're not going to I have somebody that's on it two years from now. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER:  On Tuesday, President Joe Biden and his vice president, Kamala Harris, will host their first joint campaign event of the year. Their campaign is zeroing in on reproductive rights, making it the cornerstone of their reelection bid. The question now is, will that work?
 
Joining us now is CNN's Camila DeChalus.
 
Camila, so what's the thinking here? Are they hoping that they will see a polling boost with this focus? CAMILA DECHALUS, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  Well, Amara, what we know
 
 at this time is that the campaign really wants to make abortion rights one of their key pillars in the 2024 campaign, and one of the things that we're going to see a lot from Kamala Harris and President Biden is that they're really going to try to paint this broader picture of the stark contrast between what they have done in on this issue of abortion rights and what Trump has done, and his four years of office.
 
I want to highlight to you really quickly what Biden's campaign manager just put out a recent statement. And in that statement, it said that Donald Trump is the reason that more than one in three American women of reproductive age don't have the freedom to make their own healthcare decisions. 
 
Now, he and MAGA Republicans are going to go and even further if they retake the White House in 2024. A vote for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris is a vote to restore Wade, and a vote for Donald Trump is a vote to ban abortion across the country. 
 
And so, this is something we're just going to see a lot moving forward as the campaign is really hoping to use a momentum of the anniversary around Roe v. Wade this week to really try to mobilize voters that still haven't decided whether to put their full support behind Biden and you're going to see the president make a stronger case of what he will set out to do around this issue if he gets reelected again -- Amara, Victor.
 
WALKER:  All right. Camila DeChalus, thank you very much. 
 
So while they're on the trail Tuesday, there's a quiet effort underway to help Joe Biden get a win in the Democratic primary in New Hampshire. 
 
You won't hear the campaign mentioned it, but state leaders are pushing people to write him in on the ballot since Biden isn't on the ballot in New Hampshire. New Democratic National Committee rules mean that the contests there won't effectively count for the Democrats. And the first official primary for the party will be in South Carolina. 
 
Jim Demers is with us now. He is helping put together that write-in effort and he's a former state representative. 
 
Appreciate your time, Jim. 
 
So, first off, if the New Hampshire primary doesn't effectively count for the Democratic Party, why have a write-in campaign for the president? 
 
JIM DEMERS, HELPED ORGANIZE BIDEN WRITE-IN EFFORT:  So, first, you know, I think people here recognize that the DNC's calendar and our law are not in sync, but there is a primary taking place on Tuesday for both Republicans and Democrats.
 
So most of us up here on the Democratic Party felt it was critical to send a message that, while Joe Biden is not on the ballot. There is an opportunity to write them in, and that will be a message that will be sent around the country that this election is too critical to stay home and not participate. That democracy is on the ballot. If Donald Trump wins, we may see a country that doesn't look the same as today, and that has served as real motivation for people to get engaged and urge people to write in Joe Biden.
 
WALKER:  Well, what if Joe Biden doesn't win then in New Hampshire? Because as you know, these write-in campaigns, I mean, logistically, they can be quite difficult to get people to -- you know, scroll all the way down. There are 21 Democratic candidates appearing on the New Hampshire primary ballot on the Democratic side. 
 <br>[08:10:07]
 
What happens if Joe Biden doesn't win? 
 
DEMERS:  Well, I have to tell you, we are really impressed with the level of support that this actually coming in for this write-in effort.
 
We've been out over the weekend. We have had huge crowds at visibility events. We have a massive get out the vote effort that will take place on Tuesday to get people to do it. There has been mail sent to people's homes explaining how to write in Joe Biden's name. 
 
But even if this is unsuccessful, and quite frankly, it is historic, we don't know how it's going to turn out. We do feel that we have gotten people engaged. They wouldn't have been if we hadn't done this. And that in itself is laying the foundation for the November election because if this election is as close as they're predicting, New Hampshire's four electoral votes could make or break either candidate. 
 
So this is really helping to lay the foundation as we get ready for the November general election here. 
 
WALKER:  But isn't this a risky proposition especially if Joe Biden is not successful, because it would only highlight the fact that he's vulnerable in the general election then? 
 
DEMERS:  There's risks that comes with it. But we really do believe that people are paying attention. New Hampshire voters, they're known to be very attuned to what's going on. They are engaged. They are weighing what to do. 
 
We think they are going to come out and write in Joe Biden because this election is just too critical to sit home and do nothing. 
 
WALKER:  So what are the voters telling you there on the ground? And I asked you this because we know that 39 percent -- 39 percent of the states electorate are made up of independent and unaffiliated voters. That's significant because independents, they are allowed to vote in either party's primary. So are you hoping that some of these independents will actually choose to vote in a primary that will effectively not count 
 
DEMERS:  Well, you're right. The undeclared voters here can take either ballot when they go in on Tuesday. And while -- when Chris Christie was in the race, there were a lot of independents who wanted to vote for him. Their goal was to block Donald Trump from winning the nomination here. Obviously, that isn't going to happen. 
 
One of the things we are seeing is that a lot of people feel like the Iowa caucus had a big impact here, that Donald Trump had such a big wind. It has taken some of the wind out of the sails of Nikki Sally (ph) -- Nikki Haley. She really needed second place you obviously got third place. And we have actually heard some undeclared saying, if Trump's got this locked up, then I do want to send a message and they are contemplating taking a Democratic ballot, writing in Biden so that they continue to work to try to prevent Trump from being reelected 
 
WALKER:  You've said a really good strong showing by the president is critical in New Hampshire. What would a strong showing be? What would -- what would you -- what would a win be for Biden? 
 
DEMERS:  Well, our secretary of state is predicting that 88,000 Democrats will come out and vote. That's obviously down, but that's because all the attention has been on the Republican side where the campaigns have been going on for over a year.
 
But this is so hard to predict. I wouldn't even guess what the numbers might be. I will be happy if we walk away with a one vote victory. The fact is, we've gotten people engaged. They are going to be working all summer long and I feel like we've gotten New Hampshire in play for the general election in November. 
 
WALKER:  And this write-in campaign, we should stress is not affiliated with Biden's reelection campaign. 
 
Jim Demers, good to have you this morning. Thank you. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Still to come, Israeli airstrike in Damascus has reportedly killed several members of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, and that includes the head of intelligence. So what do escalating conflicts across the Middle East mean for stability in the region? 
 
Plus, it's the final days of this Arctic blast. Fortunately, all warm up is on the way. We will tell you when. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:18:30]
 
BLACKWELL:  An Iran-backed militia group has claimed responsibility for an attack on the al-Asad air base in Iraq on Saturday. U.S. officials say multiple ballistic missiles and rockets targeted the base. And while most were intercepted, some were able to pass the base's air defenses and that caused damage to the base and also left a number of U.S. personnel with minor injuries and wounded an Iraqi soldier. 
 
This is the latest in a series of attacks on U.S. positions in Iraq and Syria by Iran's proxies in the region since the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas war in October. There are growing fears that the Israel-Hamas war could turn into a
 
 greater regional war after these latest strikes, and Israeli missile strike killed five people, including the head of the Iran intelligence unit.
 
WALKER:  Iran's president Ebrahim Raisi strongly condemned the attack, vowing to retaliate, saying such cowardly acts will not go unanswered. The Israeli military has declined to comment on the allegations that were behind the attack. 
 
Our team is live in the region with much more on this. 
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman is in Lebanon.
 
But lets start with Paula Hancocks, who's watching this from Abu Dhabi. 
 
Paula, what are we learning about these latest strikes in Syria and Iraq?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Amara, starting off in Syria, we understand from Syrian state media that this happened about 10:00 at 10:20 in the morning -- Saturday morning, there was a missile strike on a sudden neighborhood in Damascus that also houses some diplomatic compounds, including the Iranian embassy. As you say, five Iranians were killed, we understand in this strike, and it has been very clearly blamed on Israel from the Iranian side. We've heard the Iranian president say that there would be consequences for what has happened. 
 
Now Israel has not commented and they're not expected to. They very rarely admit to these kinds of targeted attacks. But one of the individuals does appear to be a high level targets, if you like within the IRGC, saying that we understand from some of the official news that it was a deputy chief of the Quds force intelligence unit in Syria. 
 
So what we have seen in Iraq, on the other side, this was again on Saturday, shortly afterwards, was an attack on a U.S. -- or U.S. troops within the al Assad base. 
 
Now, this is something that happens frequently since October 7, we've seen near daily attacks against U.S. troops, not just in Iraq, also in Syria. This particular one though was the use of ballistic missiles. And it appears only to be the second time that these more powerful significant weapons have been used, often it's drones and rockets that are used. And we understand from U.S. Central Command that there were injuries among us personnel. 
 
We haven't been given a number of injuries, but they say that they are evaluating traumatic brain injuries at this point. Now this is something that has been ongoing for some time. The Islamic Republic of Iraq has claimed responsibility for this particular attack. That is an Iranian backed, Iranian funded Iranian equipped group. And there are many of these smaller groups, the Islamic resistance in Iraq being the umbrella element in that country. But we have been seeing many of these types of attacks against U.S.
 
 assets.
 
BLACKWELL:  And to Ben, taking all of Paula's reporting there, this concern about destabilization of the region. We're talking about attacks in Syria and Iraq, and Lebanon, several groups. Is that concern that threshold been crossed?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, I think this threshold has been crossing. Keep in mind also the Houthis in Yemen are targeting navigation hi in the Red Sea and the United States and the U.K. have responded to that. So really, I mean, we are in a low intensity war in Iraq, in Syria, in Yemen, in the Red Sea, in South Lebanon, and in Israel and got with Gaza as well. 
 
And this has really been taken -- it's taken off since 7th October and the United States seems to be drawn into this war. It's providing Israel with political cover, weaponry, ammunition. And by enlarge it is seen throughout the region as facilitating Israel's war in Gaza. Now, in its hundred and seventh day, with death toll in Gaza exceeding 25,000 at this point. 
 
And therefore, this war has broadened from Iraq to Yemen to Lebanon, to Syria. And now, of course, we're seeing with the strike yesterday on that building, which was a residence for Iranian military advisors. We're seeing that Iran is being increasingly directly involved in this war, and therefore, yes, the war is expanding and there's a real danger that it's going to be expanding even more as these strikes intensified -- Victor, Amara.
 
BLACKWELL:  Ben Wedeman, Paula Hancocks. Thank you both.  
 
Up next, the final countdown before the New Hampshire primary. Nikki Haley, Ron DeSantis, they're hoping that these events today in the state will help boost their campaigns. Or what would be considered a success for the two underdogs. We'll discuss.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:28:12]
 
WALKER:  We are just two days away now, and Republican presidential contenders are stepping up their efforts in New Hampshire, as they make take a final push ahead of Tuesday's primary. Nikki Haley emerges as a candidate with the strongest support, closely trailing Donald Trump in the state's polls.
 
Joining us now is CNN's chief congressional correspondent, Manu Raju. 
 
Good morning, Manu. 
 
So let's talk about Nikki Haley. And -- I mean, can she survive in this race if she loses by double-digits to Trump?
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It's going to be a really hard for her to justify staying in this race, especially if you look down the calendar, the primary calendar, the electorate in these states that are upcoming are not as hospitable as New Hampshire is. And Haley has been pushing very hard for more moderate voters, for independent voters, and polls do reflect that she has a sizable amount of support among that bloc of the electorate in New Hampshire. 
 
But if you look down the states, even her home state of South Carolina, which is the next big one coming up in the next month. But there is a Nevada caucus happening earlier than that, and then give you go down the line up until Super Tuesday, those states have a much more conservative electorate that tend to favor Donald Trump, which raises a lot of concerns among Haley supporters that if she does not have a very strong showing, maybe a close second, perhaps there'll be pressure on her will intensify for her to drop out of the race as she faces even more daunting prospects in the weeks ahead here, which raises the stakes for Tuesday's substantially. 
 
They had talked about winning this state weeks ago, some of her supporters did. They have now to downplay expectations going into Tuesday, but she has to exceed those expectations in order to stay in the race. 
 
WALKER:  And, Manu, it's yet another big week on Capitol Hill. Senators trying to put together this immigration deal that's tied to Ukraine and aid for Israel, along with Taiwan. We've heard President Biden say that he's optimistic that there will be a deal.
 
What are your expectations? 
 <br>[08:29:49] 
 
RAJU: Look, the Senate leaders are pushing very hard to have a vote this week. But there are so many complications and hurdles on both sides of the aisle. And particularly among Republicans. 
 
Donald Trump for one has raised concerns about any immigration deal. He said that Republicans should reject what is not considered a quote, "perfect deal". Republicans in the House are very hesitant about agreeing to any sort of compromise. 
 
That is a question I put to a number of Republicans including Congressman Tim Burchett of Tennessee. I asked him are you open to any sort of compromise. And this was his response. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. TIM BURCHETT (R-TN): I just don't see what the problem is. Let's fix it. Shut it down. And fix it. I just don't -- there is no compromise there. We're losing our country. And I think that until we accept that premise, it is going to continue going down the tubes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: So on left there are also concerns, a lot of Democrats are worried that Joe Biden is giving in too much to Republicans. He said that they would only agree to moving on aid to Ukraine as long as the border restrictions are imposed. Democrats on left are concerned that far too much is given to
 
 Republicans on those restrictive measures including one Senator Ben Ray Lujan who raised concerns about the direction that these talks are going. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. BEN RAY LUHAN (D-NM): Make no mistake, everyone is watching this. Communities are paying close attention. We can be tough, but we can also be fair in how this will be put together. 
 
RAJU: If it is not fair, will there be blow back. 
 
LUJAN: I imagine that there will be continued push back from everyone that has already been voicing concerns today. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: So therein lies the challenge. So even if a deal is reached on immigration, among a handful of senators, getting the votes in the House and the Senate are a much different question particularly as we head into the election where Donald Trump has made immigration front and center and a lot of Republicans have no reason, they believe to compromise at this moment, Amara. 
 
WALKER: And Manu, before we let you go, do tell us what is coming up on "INSIDE POLITICS SUNDAY". 
 
RAJU: Well, we are going to dive deeper into New Hampshire with experts on the ground, also talking about Mike Johnson and the precarious position that he's in with his right flank, the Speaker of the House. 
 
And I'm talking about Joe Biden's challenges, concerns within his own party.
 
And also I asked a lot of Republicans what they think about former president Trump if he's the nominee and if he's convicted of a crime whether they will support him or not and their responses are coming up later this morning. 
 
WALKER: All right. Looking forward to that. 
 
Manu Raju, great to see you as always. Thank you very much. 
 
And make sure to catch Manu on "INSIDE POLITICS SUNDAY" coming up at 11:00 a.m. right here on CNN, Victor.
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Let's talk New Hampshire now. Joining me are Republican strategist and president of Robinson Republic PR Brian Robinson; and Tharon Johnson, former southern regional director for the 2012 Obama campaign. 
 
Gentlemen, good to see you again. It has been a minute since the three of us have been together like this. 
 
BRIAN ROBINSON, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Yes, good to see you.
 
BLACKWELL: Brian, let me start with you and Nikki Naley's chances, because I just can't get this image out my mind of former president Trump on stage with the governor of South Carolina, the lieutenant governor, the treasurer, the attorney general, the speaker of house, several members of congress from New Hampshire -- from South Carolina. 
 
If Nikki Haley even does well in New Hampshire, how does she get by that. Because she'll have to do more than come close at home? 
 
ROBISON: Well here is what is even worse, Victor, is that those people on the stage with her isn't them taking a political risk. They're looking at the polling in South Carolina. 
 
Nikki Haley is a known quantity in South Carolina in the way that she hasn't been in any other state. And there has been consistent leads for president Trump over the last year in that state and it hasn't moved at all. If anything, it has simply solidified. 
 
New Hampshire is unique situation, right. We have Independents, you know, Democrats don't really have anywhere to go this year because they're primary there is kind of fake. And so if those folks flood the New Hampshire primary, she may get a big win. 
 
I think the national media wants to see a horse race. I think they will blow it up a little bit. But it is not really indicative of the primaries to come and that includes the one in her own home state. If she can't win in South Carolina, there is no pathway. 
 
BLACKWELL: Of course, only Republicans and undeclared voters can vote in the Republican primary. Democrats have to take a Democratic ballot.
 
Let me come to you. You see the Iowa results. You see the polls in New Hampshire and that picture looking ahead to South Carolina, do you think this Republican primary is over? 
 
THARON JOHNSON, FORMER SOUTH REGIONAL DIRECTOR, OBAMA CAMPAIGN: I think that we'll know Wednesday once the New Hampshire primary is over. If Nikki Haley is not able to finish closely to Donald Trump, then I think it is over. 
 
BLACKWELL: How close? 
 
JOHNSON: It has to be low single-digits. I mean it's got to be to the point where a lot of her supporters and pundits will come on the show and say, hey, she's got a chance. Look at what she made strides. 
 <br>[08:34:47]
 
JOHNSON: And then you've got to also see how Donald Trump will react. I mean he wants this is race to be over. He believes that he's going to be the nominee for president of the United States and he wants the Republicans to coalesce behind him. 
 
But if she's dumping the type of money she's dumping in, if she's basically trying to bring people together, people who don't believe that Donald Trump can be the best Republican nominee, then I think that he will probably explode. 
 
And there's also -- we'll see how Ron DeSantis, who now decided to actually show up in New Hampshire, if he even makes a, you know, a mark. 
 
BLACKWELL: I don't understand why he's going to New Hampshire. I mean in our poll, the latest poll, he's at 5 percent in New Hampshire. That was before Christie got out, before Ramaswamy got out. 
 
And if you don't go to the state and you finish with 5 percent, you could say I didn't really try. But if you go back and ask for the vote and finish at 5 percent, that is a different thing. 
 
ROBINSON: I think maybe it's time to speculate on why he's going back. Maybe he's getting out of the race. Maybe he's going to endorse somebody in the race and that's what he's going to be there for because you're right. There is no pathway for him there. It will just be a humiliating loss. 
 
And look, we saw over this weekend that he has pulled down ads in all of the early states. That is a campaign running on fumes and one in a death spiral. So I do think that we're going to see the end of the road there within hours or days. 
 
BLACKWELL: So you don't think he makes it to South Carolina in a month at all? 
 
ROBINSON: No. No. I think they're already laying off super PAC folks. I mean it is beginning to pare down. 
 
BLACKWELL: Ok. Even -- and you call it death spiral -- 
 
ROBINSON: Yes, it's a death spiral, yes.
 
BLACKWELL: -- for DeSantis. DeSantis still in the latest CBS/YouGov poll would beat President Biden. Here are the numbers. 2 percent which is in margin of error for Trump, above Biden, DeSantis at 3 and Haley at 8. 
 
I mean even someone who has these struggles in the primary still beats the president. 
 
JOHNSON: Well these polls are very early. And as we know, you've been covering this for a long time, the presidential polls at this point, honestly, they're just a sort of snapshot of what the electorate is thinking. 
 
But if you really take a deep dive into the polls and look at the crosshair, some things are very encouraging to me. 
 
Number 1, Democrats are motivated behind Joe Biden and they're particularly motivated on his ability to save democracy and also his job creation. 
 
Now, you also look at one of the people who say their more likely to vote in this poll. They are actually supporting him. Not as much as they should but the people who think they're going to vote is supporting him overwhelmingly than the Republicans. 
 
So what this really boils down to, Victor, is a turnout game. And what Democrats have displayed in places like Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and even in Kentucky, when we are head-to-head with Republicans, with our work on ground, we can beat them in an presidential election year. 
 
And the thing that is very encouraging for me is that the Biden campaign has basically opened back I think a very important issue for American people and that is this Republican assault on reproductive rights for women, right. This is reproductive freedom.
 
You saw her, the vice president and the president, together campaigning (INAUDIBLE) they're currently bringing the issue back to the table. 
 
But ultimately I think the polls will tighten and this is going to be a tough race. 
 
BLACKWELL: Does Tim Scott get anything for that choice endorsement, the cadence (ph) that he chose. What was that and does it help him at all? 
 
ROBINSON: Well, it might make him a vice presidential nominee or at least somebody who is on the short list. 
 
BLACKWELL: You this that performance boosted him on the list? 
 
ROBINSON: Look, President Trump likes folks who are loyal to him. And look, here's the other little thing. Tim Scott is going to be somebody who does what Donald Trump wants on the campaign trail and he's not going to be someone who upstages Donald Trump on the campaign trail. He's going to be a good soldier out there. He's very likeable. He's not, you know, dynamic as an orator -- 
 
BLACKWELL: Which is why that was so odd. Sick and tired -- and sick and tired. That's just not who we're used to hearing from Tim Scott. It's a little bit different.
 
(CROSSTALKING)
 
ROBINSON: Maybe he's got a little showman in him. We just haven't seen it yet.
 
BLACKWELL: I guess. He didn't even have it for himself. 
 
ROBINSON: But here's the thing though. I think some of this was he didn't like how Nikki Haley treated him on the debate stage. I really do wonder if that is part of it because she slapped him around a little bit. 
 
BLACKWELL: Sunned him, as we recall it. 
 
ROBINSON: Yes.
 
BLACKWELL: Ok. All right. Brian, Tharon -- thank you both. 
 
JOHNSON: Thank you.
 
BLACKWELL: And be sure to tune in to "STATE OF THE UNION" at the top of hour. Dana Bash will sit down with Senator Tim Scott on the heels of his endorsement of Donald Trump. She also will talk with Senator Chris Coons. 
 
WALKER: All right. Up next, an arctic blast sent much of the country into a shiver but some major relief is not too far off. We're going to tell you when you can expect the warm-up, next. 
 <br>[08:39:15]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: Hundreds women gathered in Washington calling for renewed federal abortion rights and equal access to health care across racial lines. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When abortion rights are under attack. What do we do? I said what do we do? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: Organizers then led a march to the White House. Yesterday's event comes ahead of the 51st anniversary of Roe v Wade which is tomorrow. 
 
President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris have a campaign event discussing abortion rights nearby in Virginia this week. 
 
BLACKWELL: In Iowa a community paid its final respects to a principal being remembered as a hero for saving students in the Perry High School shooting. Dan Marburger died last week after being shot several times when he confronted the shooter on January 4th. 
 
A sixth-grade student was killed in that attack. Marburger's daughter spoke yesterday. She said she wishes she could have just a couple more seconds to hug him. 
 
This morning, there are lots of people who were still waking up to dangerously cold temperatures in the teens, some in the single-digits. 
 <br>[08:44:51]
 
WALKER: An 85-year-old woman in Indiana was found dead after freezing to death. She had wandered from her home a few days ago. She was only wearing a night gown. The man who found the woman wants the family to know just how sorry he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAMIEN LUTZ, FOUND THE ELDERLY WOMAN: I hope they're dealing with this as best they can, right. So I mean, that is all you could wish for. Just an unfortunate situation. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: Let's find out now when we're going to get a break from this. 
 
Meteorologist Elisa Raffa is here. So when is it coming? Not today. 
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: No, we're still dealing with some of that dangerous cold today. It will warm up by the end of the week but it comes with some flooding concerns from a storm system. 
 
Here's a look at the temperatures right now. 3 degrees in Cincinnati; only 1 degrees in Chicago; 16 in Charlotte. Even in the teens down as far as Atlanta. Below freezing in Jacksonville this morning. 
 
You have the windchill and hard freeze alerts that stretch through this southeast and even down the Florida Peninsula. 
 
Here is a look at some of the alerts coming up already ahead of this next storm that brings the warm air but it could also bring some ice. 
 
You have a winter weather advisory in place for most of Missouri and Arkansas and then (INAUDIBLE) to Oklahoma, a little bit of an ice storm warning where ice totals could get up to a half an inch that will weigh down some tree limbs, powerlines and could cause some power problems as well as slick roads.
 
And you could see that ice really starting going into tomorrow morning. Then it turns to rain and bring some flooding across the southeast from New Orleans there to Panama City. Some snow possible out in the Great Lakes.
 
And then the moisture front continues to fuel some heavier rain along the Gulf Coast. We're looking at three days of an excessive rain red for Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, you see in the yellow, the slight risk. 
 
And temperatures do warm up. We've been looking at overnight lows getting into the 60s. Some records there will be possible, guys. 
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Elisa, thank you so much. 
 
WALKER: All right. Up next, a pair of top seeds are moving on to the conference championship round and one of them needed a big-time come back to make it happen. The highlights just around the corner. 
 <br>[08:46:55]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: Plenty of playoff drama last night. The 49ers had to get something going to beat the Packers. 
 
WALKER: Coy wire with us now. Coy, San Francisco is the Super Bowl favorite. Green Bay was the seventh seeded. It still came down to the final minute. COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: And these two teams, Packers and
 
 Niners is one of the best rivalries in the NFL because more often than not, when they play, it's all on the line. 
 
For the 10th time these two teams have met, this is the most of all time in the playoffs. The 49ers were led by Brock Purdy there. He's the last pick of last year's draft. The Packers are the youngest team in the league led by Jordan Love. 
 
And Green Bay was leading by 4 in the fourth but Purdy shows up with his arm, the incredible pass to Brandon (INAUDIBLE) to keep the drive alive and then with his legs and heart. Look at him taking off and diving head first into that defense. 
 
Christian McCaffrey would take it from there, about a minute to go. It's his second touchdown of the game. The eventual game winner, Kyle Shanahan's Niners, they win 24-21. They're back in the NFC championship game for the fourth time in five years. And that's pretty remarkable.
 
Also, the Texans in the AFC, they were tied at halftime with the top- seeded Ravens. But former League MVP Lamar Jackson takes over, accounting for all of Baltimore's touchdowns. Two passing, two on the ground, Ravens are now going to host a conference championship for the first time since 1970. 
 
Victor, what do you think of these dance moves? 
 
BLACKWELL: He got them. 
 
WIRE: Coach Harbaugh's got them. Moves like Jagger, I don't know. 
 
Two games today, Lions against the Bucs. Then it's Kansas City and Buffalo, where Bills fans lined up to help shovel snow out of the stadium. This is the third matchup in the last four playoffs for these teams, but the first time the Bills are at home, they're going to be surrounded by the most passionate fans in football. Pro-bowler Dion Dawkins, he knows what's up. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DION DAWKINS, BUFFALO BILLS: I'm excited. Because it will be -- the environment will be different, and not to say it's in our favor, but the stadium is our favor, you know. Stadium is us. That helps us. 
 
I don't care what nobody says. This is the most dopest (ph) feeling I've ever had. Like, we're having two back-to-back playoff games home. Like, come on now. Like we get to leave and go eat wings. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Go get your wings, Snowman. 
 
15 playoff starts for Patrick Mahomes. This is his first true road playoff game, other than a (INAUDIBLE) Super Bowl, they have to go into Buffalo in that environment -- good luck. WALKER: Yes.
 
And also, talking about the environment. Was that a fan like shirtless in that cold? 
 
WIRE: Of course. It's Buffalo, baby. 
 
BLACKWELL: Coy Wire, thank you. 
 
WALKER: Thanks, Coy. 
 
WIRE: You got it.
 
WALKER: All right. Still ahead, an ER doctor is finally ready to skate by. We'll show you how he went viral and rolled into retirement in style. How are those moves, Victor? And why are we asking Victor, like -- 
 
BLACKWELL: Because you all know I can dance. Come on, now. 
 <br>[08:53:48]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: The show is almost done. We've got about two-and-a-half minutes left. And speaking of finishing with work, you have to see how one doctor rolled into retirement. 
 
WALKER: Jeanne Moos talked to a 70-year-old roller skater who may have a new career now as a TikTok star. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Who says stretchers are the only things that roll around the ER. 
 
After four decades in medicine Dr. Phil Masterson rolled into retirement wearing a "Retired" sash his staff gave him.
 
DR. PHIL MASTERSON, RETIRED DOCTOR: And I've always had a thought, you know, when I retire, I want to do something crazy.
 
MOOS: His coworkers at this free-standing ER outside Dallas had no idea he's been skating since he was a teenager in Detroit.
 
DR. MASTERSON: They were flabbergasted.
 
MOOS: As "Hit the Road, Jack" played, they giggled. His daughter Nicole, posted the video to TikTok.
 
NICOLE, DAUGHTER: It made me happy to see him happy.
 
MOOS: And it went viral. Dr. Phil is turning 70.
 
"Lord, I was scared he was going to end up in one of those beds behind him", commented one TikToker. But the doctor learned to skate in an era like the one portrayed in the movie "Roll Bounce".
 
And what was your big move of when you were a young man and can you still do it.
 
DR. MASTERSON: No, I can't still do it.
 
MOOSE: He called it the Russian roulette. Here he is in his 20s crouching while kicking.
 <br>[08:59:52]
 
DR. MASTERSON: My knees won't allow me to do that any longer.
 
MOOS: But they will allow him to move to Spain with his wife for a year. Just as the hot shots in the movie "Roll Bounce" left the girls swooning, the ER staff almost had a Code Blue emergency. At least the doctor kept his white jacket on.
 
Jeanne Moos, CNN -- New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLACKWELL: I love it. I love it. 
 
WALKER: And this was the highlight of his career, right. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes. Thank you so much for joining us this morning.
 
WALKER: "STATE OF THE UNION" is next. 
 <br>[09:00:00]