Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Major Missile Attack on Israel; Some Economic Ripple Effects Seen from Boar`s Head Plant`s Closure; High-Tech Flying Boat is Barely Even Making a Splash. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired October 02, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, bringing you 10 minutes of news for the day. We`re already halfway through 
 
 the week. We`ve got to build up some momentum for the rest of the week, because like one of my former NFL teammates, Tyler McClure, used to say, 
 
 there`s no mentum like momentum. 
 
Today is #YourWordWednesday, so listen up to see if the vocab word you submitted helped us write today`s show.
 
Now, we do have to start with some very concerning news today. In the Middle East, where a barrage of ballistic missiles was launched by Iran 
 
 into Israel, sirens sounded off across Israel as nearly 200 projectiles rained down. Many were intercepted by Israel`s Iron Dome defense system.
 
It comes at a sensitive time in the region as concerns over an expanding regional war continues to grow. Earlier in the day, an official from the 
 
 U.S., which is the closest ally of Israel, said in a statement that, quote, "a direct military attack from Iran against Israel will carry severe 
 
 consequences for Iran," end quote. CNN was on the ground in Israel while the attack happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR: What we are all seeing with our own eyes is a major attack from Iran.
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: It`s a major attack, Dana. And it`s an escalation. It`s an escalation of this war.
 
And now what we`re seeing in addition to those intercepts is we`re seeing fragments falling to the ground. It`s like a, a deadly, a deadly fireworks 
 
 display over Tel Aviv.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BASH: And you`re talking about Tel Aviv -- and you`re talking about Tel Aviv, Jim. We are looking at pictures right now. We are looking pictures, 
 
 at pictures of Tel Aviv, what you`re describing.
 
SCIUTTO: They`re coming down. One just about -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Go inside.
 
SCIUTTO: We got to go inside.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Now, at the time we produced this show, there were no deaths reported from this attack. This move from Iran comes after several events, including 
 
 an Israeli military ground operation targeting militant group Hezbollah earlier that day. 
 
A source from a U.N. peacekeeping mission in Lebanon said the Israeli military staged sporadic raids across the Lebanon-Israel border, but that 
 
 Israeli troops did not stay on Lebanese soil.
 
The incursion came after hours of artillery fire from Israel across the border into Lebanon. Recently, Israeli strikes have killed more than 1,000 
 
 people, destroying homes and displacing an estimated 1 million people in Lebanon. 
 
Israel and Hezbollah have been engaged in a back-and-forth escalation since the war in Gaza began last October. Hezbollah attacked Israel on October 
 
 8th and has said it will not stop striking Israel until a ceasefire is reached in the Palestinian enclave. 
 
Hezbollah also said it would choose a new leader as soon as possible after Israel assassinated its chief, Hassan Nasrallah, last week. 
 
Israel`s escalation in its fight with Hezbollah and Iran`s direct attack opened a new and dangerous phase in nearly a year of war in the region.
 
The U.S. has put pressure on Israel to reach a ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah and in the war with Gaza, following growing concerns over a more 
 
 wide scale war. 
 
Ten second trivia. What condiment was used for what was thought to be its medicinal qualities in the 1800s?
 
Mustard, ketchup, wasabi or mayonnaise? 
 
Hands up if you said ketchup. Did you know that it was made into pills sent to cure conditions like indigestion and jaundice?
 
All right, we should try to never take moments for granted. Life can be ephemeral. Over the summer, a listeria outbreak sickened and even took the 
 
 lives of people from more than a dozen states across the U.S. The foodborne bacterial illness was traced back to a Boar`s Head plant in Virginia, where 
 
 a USDA investigation uncovered issues in the factory like insects and mold. 
 
Boar`s Head issued a recall and discontinued some products and closed the plant where the outbreak originated. But now the plant`s closure means an 
 
 entire town will feel the impact of lost jobs and businesses. 
 
CNN`s Meena Duerson has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LEE BEESLEY, ASSISTANT MANAGER, CORNER STONE CROSSROADS: Good morning. 
 
MEENA DUERSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Normally around this time, Lee Beesley would be right in the middle of the breakfast rush.
 
BEESLEY: If Boar`s Head was coming through the door on their break, there would be about 15 people in line waiting and just us trying to get them out 
 
 the door real quick.
 
DUERSON: Beesley runs the kitchen at Cornerstone Crossroads, just a few miles from the Boar`s Head plant in Jarratt, Virginia, where hundreds of 
 
 people worked before the company shut it down this month. 
 
(On camera): What did the Boar`s Head plant mean to this area?
 
BEESLEY: Well, that`s like 500 jobs took off the table, everybody at once. So it`s going to impact everybody, not just us, but all any other business 
 
 around. 
 
DUERSON: Are you feeling it here? 
 
BEESLEY: Oh, yeah. Yeah, definitely makes a huge difference.
 
DUERSON: Boar`s Head closed the Jarratt plant indefinitely after investigators found its liverwurst production was the origin of a deadly 
 
 outbreak tied to the deaths of 10 people and dozens of hospitalizations. The company had been the largest private employer in this rural area. 
 
(On camera): In your time here, have you seen a lot of clients come through who were at Boar`s Head?
 
DONNELL, BARBER, CAIN`S BARBER SHOP: Significant amount.
 
DUERSON: Yeah.
 
DONNELL: Significant amount. It`s going to affect our business heavily, but it ain`t going to close us down or nothing. It`s just going to be a 
 
 significant change.
 
DUERSON: It`s a big part of the community?
 
DONNELL: Huge part of the community.
 
DUERSON: Jarratt is a former railroad town of around 600 people. Boar`s Head casts a big shadow here. Everywhere we went, we ran into former 
 
 employees. 
 
Shirley Blowe worked as a cleaner at the plant for 22 years.
 
SHIRLEY BLOWE, FORMER EMPLOYEE, BOAR`S HEAD: It`s not no easy job.
 
DUERSON: Why did you want to work there?
 
BLOWE: I wanted to work there because they was paying good and it was a good job back then.
 
DUERSON: When you heard what was happening over the summer, were you surprised? 
 
BLOWE: Not really. Well, back then, they had good supervisors. They checked it. If it took all day.
 
DUERSON: You feel like that wasn`t happening anymore? 
 
BLOWE: I can`t say that. I have to watch what I say because I don`t want to say nothing to hurt no one.
 
DUERSON: In the days after the plant closure, Boar`s Head held meetings with laid off employees. 
 
(On camera): We`ve seen dozens of people come in and out of this building today. They`ve been getting their severance. They`ve been connecting with 
 
 career opportunities, signing up for unemployment. The people who were willing to share told us they were really sad about losing their jobs. They 
 
 thought of this place like family. Some of them had worked here for decades, but largely they`ve been too afraid to talk to us. 
 
(Voice-over): Employees we met getting their exit paperwork told us they`d been warned they could risk losing their severance if they spoke to us. A 
 
 claim Boar`s Head denied.
 
The company told CNN, we adhere strictly to state and federal employment laws.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 is making no waves. Check this out. This high-tech flying boat is barely even making a splash.
 
Swedish company Candela`s all electric hydrofoiling vehicles use submerged wing like structures to lift their vessels above the water surface. The 
 
 technology could make ferry commutes faster and more comfortable, all while helping the planet in the process.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOFIA LERM, PRODUCT MANAGER CANDELA: Prepare for takeoff.
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: I`m pretty sure that`s the first time I heard a captain of a boat say prepare to take off.
 
LERM: We`re leaving the water now and we`re flying.
 
EGAN (voice-over): This so-called flying boat is the C-8, a recreational day cruiser from Candela, a Swedish company whose all-electric hydrofoiling 
 
 vehicles could revolutionize the way people commute.
 
LERM: We have essentially like wings of an airplane submerged under the water. And when you reach certain speeds, the fully automated foil system 
 
 will activate the takeoff sequence, which will bring the boat out of the water. It is essentially the same mechanics that lifts a commercial 
 
 airline.
 
This is how you fly a boat. If you look behind us, we`re not making a wake anymore. The foil system is self-regulating itself and handling the waves 
 
 so that we are as smooth as possible.
 
EGAN: You have another boat that runs on this technology, but it`s bigger?
 
LERM: We have a 40-foot passenger ferry that can carry 30 passengers. The wings are proportionally bigger, but the mechanics and the system is the 
 
 same.
 
EGAN (voice-over): Candela believes that their flying ferry will be faster, more comfortable and result in far fewer carbon emissions than a 
 
 traditional passenger ferry. 
 
(On camera): How unique is this technology? I mean, are there other companies out there doing something similar with foils?
 
LERM: Foiling has actually been around for many, many, many years. The reason why foiling, if you ask me, hasn`t been a bigger thing in the -- in 
 
 the past is that the technology hasn`t been there. This is a merger of drone technology, drone software, fighter jet hardware, and it all comes 
 
 together with the highest processing powers available.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: All right. All right. Congrats to all my people at Ripley Junior High in Ripley, Oklahoma, for submitting today`s #YourWordWednesday winner.
 
Ephemeral, an adjective meaning lasting a very short time. I see you Peyton and Jazz Hands for Mr. L in your Humanities class. Thank you for making us 
 
 smarter today.
 
Our shout out today goes to all those Cardinals flying high at North Clay High School in Louisville, Illinois. Rise up. 
 
Thanks to everyone for submitting your shout out requests on our CNN 10 YouTube page. Have an awesome day, everyone. I`ll see you right back here 
 
 tomorrow on CNN 10.
 
END