Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Mar-a-Lago Turns into MAGA Universe; Orna and Ronen Neutra are Interviewed about Israeli Hostages; NFL Thanksgiving Slate; Soup Kitchens Still Seeing High Turnout. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired November 28, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:30:26] 
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: This morning, a major security breach for Delta Airlines after a stowaway made it on board a flight from New York to Paris during the Thanksgiving travel search.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Folks, this is the captain. We're just waiting for the police to come on board. They may be here now. And they've directed us to keep everyone on the airplane until we sort out who the extra passenger is who's on the plane.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: All right, how about that? According to the TSA, the individual who did not have a boarding pass completed a security screening, then bypassed two identity checkpoints to get on the plane with other passengers. It's unclear how the stowaway got through so many screenings, but Delta says it is conducting an exhaustive investigation. 
 
An Arizona man says he is lucky to be alive after a close call on a roller coaster over the weekend. The cell phone video captures the moment the man jumped off a ride at the Castles and Coasters Amusement Park just seconds before it went down the big drop. The man says he noticed his lap bar came loose, so he stood up and leaped to the staircase, possibly saving his own life. CNN affiliate KPHO says the theme park has not commented on the incident. 
 
Rapper and music producer Sean Combs denied bail again. Federal prosecutors argued he posed a danger to women and was tampering with witnesses, even while in federal custody. He was denied bail twice before by two other federal judges. Combs will remain in jail while he awaits trial on charges of sex trafficking and racketeering conspiracy. 
 
Following President-elect Donald Trump's victory earlier this month, Palm Beach, the home of his Mar-a-Lago resort, is seeing a surge of tourists to the area, with some MAGA Republicans looking to make the region their new home. CNN's Randi Kaye has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUCE HELANDER, ARTIST, LONGTIME PALM BEACH RESIDENT: This is the magnet where everybody who wants to see Trump has got to come to Palm Beach. 
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Artist Bruce Helander first came to Palm Beach in 1983 to open an art gallery on the exclusive Worth Avenue. A lot has changed since then, and with Donald Trump once again the president-elect, Palm Beach, which leans Democratic, is again the center of the MAGA universe.
 
VINCE MAROTTA, ILLUSTRATED PROPERTIES: We've definitely seen a major Trump bump. I've got my phone ringing nonstop. So, there's definitely been an increase in traffic. 
 
KAYE (voice over): Vince Marotta is a top selling real estate agent here. He says some people meeting with Trump are now also looking to put down roots in the area. 
 
KAYE: Did your phone start ringing right after the election? 
 
MAROTTA: They did. In fact, just a few days after I got a call from a major broker who said to me she's working with somebody in the Trump brain trust, and they're looking to find something somewhere close to Mar-a-Lago in the $10 million to $15 million range. 
 
KAYE (voice over): Mar-a-Lago, the 58 bedroom estate that Trump calls home, is where the president-elect has been conducting job interviews to fill his cabinet and holding key meetings during the transition period. 
 
In Palm Beach and neighboring West Palm Beach, just across the water from Mar-a-Lago, there has been a steady stream of limousines ferrying prominent Republicans, world leaders, and others around the area. 
 
BERNARDO NETO, GENERAL MANAGER, THE BEN HOTEL: We've seen the president of Argentina was in the city. We've seen, you know, NATO dignitaries. We've seen Fortune 500 CEOs. 
 
KAYE (voice over): Bernardo Neto is the general manager at The Ben Hotel, which sits just about two miles from Mar-a-Lago. These days it's a popular spot for media, dignitaries and anyone hoping to get access to Trump or a job with the new administration. 
 
NETO: I think having any president-elect two miles away, but absolutely since the election we've seen a big uptake of reservations. But we've seen an increase, at least 15 percent. 
 
HELANDER: The airports are filled. The hotels are filled. The restaurants, impossible to get a reservation. It's a very exciting time. 
 
KAYE (voice over): Exciting for some, but stressful too. Security around Palm Beach is tighter than ever, especially along what's known as Billionaires Row. That's the area of South Ocean Boulevard, where Mar-a-Lago is located. It's now closed to traffic, which has turned into a nightmare. 
 
ELDA TARRAGO, PALM BEACH RESIDENT: Nobody likes the traffic because, you know, what used to take 15 minutes to get somewhere, now you're taking 40 minutes to an hour, you know. So, traffic is always an issue but, you know, that's - that's what happens when a city grows. 
 
KAYE: Would you like to see them put the helipad back at Mar-a-Lago?
 
TARRAGO: I would say, why not? Yes, why not? It'll be fun to watch.
 
KAYE (voice over): Palm Beach may be at the epicenter of it all, but business just over the bridge in West Palm Beach is also booming. 
 <br>[06:35:03]
 
Billionaire Jeff Greene is building a 1.5 million square foot office, hotel and apartment complex. Vanderbilt University has plans to build a $520 million graduate campus. And companies like Goldman Sachs are moving in, helping to transform West Palm Beach into the Wall Street of the south. 
 
Longtime Palm Beach resident Suebelle Whitworth Robbins came here 50 years ago and loves all the attention on their tiny enclave and surrounding areas. 
 
Suebelle Whitworth Robbins: Oh, it's magical. I think it's sort of exciting. It was always fun to be around important people. 
 
KAYE (voice over): Randi Kaye, CNN, Palm Beach Florida. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ACOSTA: Straight ahead on CNN THIS MORNING, one family tells CNN their Thanksgiving table will be empty today for the second year in a row. We're joined by the parents of an Israeli American soldier held captive by Hamas. Does this week's ceasefire deal with Hezbollah give them hope for their son's release? 
 
Plus, getting there and back. Weather and record crowds making holiday travel a challenge.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It means everything to us. We're very close. We're missing one of our sons and his wife, who we love dearly, in New York City. But it's so good to be here together.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:40:53] ACOSTA: All right, it's 6:40 a.m. here on the East Coast. Here's a live look at Denver, Colorado, where citywide Christmas decorations are already going up. 4:40 in the morning there. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Jim Acosta, in for Kasie Hunt. Happy Thanksgiving to everyone joining us this morning. 
 
The ceasefire, in the meantime, between Israel and Hezbollah appears to be holding for now with the thousands now returning to their homes in southern Lebanon, hoping for a lasting peace after 13 months of war. CNN analyst Barak Ravid reports in "Axios" that President Biden spoke to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu after the ceasefire was reached and urged him to focus now on achieving a deal with Hamas for the release of the hostages. President Biden also saying the U.S. will make another push in the coming days for a ceasefire in Gaza. 
 
Joining me now is Ronen and Orna Neutra. Their son, Omer, is a soldier in the Israeli military and is currently being held hostage by Hamas. 
 
Ronen and Orna, thank you so much for being with us. So sorry for what you've been going through this ordeal. I just can't imagine. But this is going to be the second Thanksgiving that you're going to be spending without your son. How are you feeling today?
 
ORNA NEUTRA, MOTHER OF ISRAELI HOSTAGE OMER NEUTRA: It's not easy. Let me tell you. I mean it's been a really, really tough year. For us, you know, it's not a real holiday. All the holidays are just milestones that remind us that Omer is not here.
 
We are still stuck on October 7th. We're on a - in a waiting pattern for over a year right now, and we're praying for his life and for his safety. That's where we are. 
 
ACOSTA: And do you have any idea how he's doing?
 
RONEN NEUTRA, FATHER OF ISRAELI HOSTAGE OMER NEUTRA: We don't have an idea. We are over a year now waiting to hear about his whereabouts and his condition, together with the 101 other hostages. Those are seven Americans that were taken over a year ago. And I - we all know and believe that it's time to bring them home. 
 
ACOSTA: And do you see the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah as a positive sign that a deal to release the hostages in Gaza is getting closer, that there might be some path to peace there? What are your thoughts? 
 
R. NEUTRA: It might be, you know, in the right direction. We welcome a cease fire agreement. We felt that there should have been a ceasefire in Gaza long ago as the Israeli military objectives have - have been achieved, as we were told. Ans we're disappointed that the hostage deal that we all so much want to have is - is - hasn't been part of - of that ceasefire. We feel it's a missed opportunity. But now, after the election, the focus is back here in the United States and should continue to be to finish the crisis in the Middle East. And the hostages are the key to reduce the - the tension and - and getting to a ceasefire and hopefully into a sustainable peace in the region. ACOSTA: And what are you hearing from the Biden administration and with President-elect Trump set to take office in just a short time? Does this transition from one administration to another worry you, give you hope? What are your thoughts?
 
O. NEUTRA: We know that both President Biden and President-elect Trump want the war to end, want the hostages back. So, we are very, very hopeful. And that is what we are asking, that they work together now, at this moment, and not wait until Inauguration Day to get it done, to bring the hostages home. 
 
You asked about our son's condition. I can only tell you that, you know, the - after the execution of the six hostages in the beginning of September, there was not a lot of room left for imagination. 
 <br>[06:45:08]
 
You know, we saw how they came back home. Emaciated, dehydrated, half their body weight. And that was after 11 months of being held in captivity. 
 
Winter is coming. You know, the - they are being held in - in tunnels underneath Gaza. Their resources depleted. You know, they really do not have time. They all have to come home. And we are urging both administrations to work together and put pressure on the regional players. Whether its Qatar, Egypt, we're hearing now about Turkey and Israel and just get the deal done and get them back home. 
 
R. NEUTRA: We feel there's something similar to the Reagan moment that we had in 1981, where the exchange of administration here in the United States created an opportunity. We feel that President Trump and President Biden have an opportunity, both of them, to solidify their legacy and bring the hostages and a ceasefire to the region.
 
ACOSTA: And what are families like yours going through on this Thanksgiving?
 
R. NEUTRA: It's really hard. A second time having an empty chair. It's not a real holiday until we are all together. Bitter, sad. And we are heading into the holiday season. Hanukkah this year is the same day of Christmas. We sure hope in the next few weeks. Good news is going to come about, and we'll be able to celebrate the holiday with our dear ones. 
 
O. NEUTRA: You know, Jim, it's been such a roller coaster. There's been so much talk about a ceasefire, about hostage deals, and then they fall apart. You know, even just this morning, we - we wake up, we open our phone. In Israel they're talking about Netanyahu asking for Biden to help in - in getting a partial deal done. 
 
You know, our heart is just sinking, leaping. You don't know how to respond, what does it mean, a partial deal. Everyone wants their loved ones home. They all need to come home. The ones who are alive need to come home for rehabilitation. And the ones who are deceased need to come home for a proper burial and for closure for their families. So, whatever is needed, we have - all of the families are craving for
 
 the families to come home and for this nightmare to finally end for all sides.
 
ACOSTA: Yes.
 
O. NEUTRA: End the suffering.
 
ACOSTA: Absolutely. And our hearts go out to you. I just can't imagine what you're going through. But please know that we are just hoping for the best for Omer and all the families and all the - all the people who are being held at this time. I'm just so sorry for what you've been going through, but thank you so much for your time and sharing your thoughts. I hope it makes - I hope it makes a difference in the coming days. I really do.
 
O. NEUTRA: Thank you.
 
R. NEUTRA: Thank you. Thank you so much. 
 
ACOSTA: Ronen and Orna, thank you so much. We appreciate it. 
 
All right, just ahead on CNN THIS MORNING, as Americans mark Thanksgiving Day across the nation, gathering with family, many of you will be watching football. We'll have a look at the big day ahead on the gridiron.
 
Plus, singer and songwriter Andy Grammer talks to CNN about family giving back and what he's thankful for this holiday season.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:52:49]
 
ACOSTA: All right, it's 6:52 a.m. here on the East Coast. Here's a live look at New Orleans, Louisiana, courtesy of our affiliate WDSU there in the big easy. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Jim Acosta, in for Kasie Hunt. Happy Thanksgiving to everyone joining us. I hope you're getting some turkey going in the oven there. We'll be with you to see how that's going in just a few moments. 
 
But in the meantime, nothing like football with that apple pie on tradition. And keeping with tradition, there are three NFL games on tap today. The first one featuring a Super Bowl favorite.
 
Carolyn Manno has all the details. 
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Jim, it's hard to imagine any Thanksgiving without a full slate of NFL football to binge watch all day long. 
 
We kick it off with maybe the most impressive team we've seen so far this season. The Lions are an NFC best 10-1 and have outscored their opponents by over 16 points a game. That is scary for any teams around the league, especially their division rival, the Bears, who come into Detroit having lost five in a row. The Lions used to playing on turkey day, having hosted a game nearly every year since 1934. They know how important this game is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAN CAMPBELL, DETROIT LIONS HEAD COACH: It's a division win. That's - that's why this is huge. Number two is because, you know, the players are going to get a couple days off. So, they've got family, friends in. It'd be nice to, you know, to feel good about it when you - when you're with everybody. Because it's just not real fun. It's not real fun to be around. You know, ask my wife. She'll tell you. Like, that's what she's praying for, a win, I mean, big time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: The Cowboys and the Giants have been going through dismal seasons. If you are a fan of either team, you have my full permission to go for that extra slice of pie. Maybe that will comfort you. But any time Dallas plays in that 4:30 Eastern slot on Thanksgiving, the eyeballs are certainly there. 
 
Dak Prescott and Daniel Jones were the starting quarterbacks last time. These two played back in September. Prescott is hurt. Jones got cut by the Giants on Friday. 
 
The night game might be a bit more intriguing. It will likely be a lot colder, especially if you're a Miami Dolphin. Miami traveling to Green Bay to face the Packers. Temperatures expected to be in the 20s at game time, but it's one the Dolphins need to keep any hope alive for a playoff spot. 
 <br>[06:55:01]
 
And remember, in last year's playoffs, Jim, Miami had to play in Kansas City when the windchill was around 25 below. They did not fare very well there. So, let's see if they pack some extra layers this time for their trip to Green Bay and have a better result. 
 
Happy Thanksgiving, Jim, and Happy Thanksgiving to everybody at home. Enjoy the football.
 
ACOSTA: And Happy Thanksgiving to you, Carolyn. Thanks so much. Looking forward to the football.
 
But in the meantime, 85 percent of food banks say they're seeing similar or higher demand for food assistance compared to last year. This is according to a new survey conducted by nonprofit organization Feeding America. This couldn't come at a worse time given that food banks say pantry donations are down. 
 
CNN's Natasha Chen has more on that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You have a Happy Thanksgiving. NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): This is not
 
 video from the pandemic. This is a line this week of people waiting to receive food at a church in time for Thanksgiving. 
 
CHRIS MERREL, FOOD PANTRY CLIENT: I have to do it. And that's the way it goes. 
 
CHEN (voice over): Chris Merril has been coming to this Pasadena, California, church every week for several years. 
 
MERREL: Well, my wife won't even come because she'd be embarrassed. 
 
CHEN (voice over): He's a retired mechanic living on less than $700 Social Security per month. He never thought he'd need help from a food bank. And he's not alone. 
 
MERREL: Never seen the line that long before. This time it was all the way up and down the street. 
 
ANA DURAN, FOOD INSECURE: Lines are getting crazier. 
 
CHEN (voice over): We first met Ana Duran two years ago when her home in Riverside, California, saw inflation at almost 10 percent. Even though inflation has cooled now to about 2 percent -
 
DURAN: Where I have to get up at least, you know, like I said before, six - to be there by six. 
 
CHEN (voice over): Duran still goes to weekly food distributions. Two years ago, she told us she was turning in recycling and selling jewelry for extra cash while working as a part-time caregiver. She's continued to do that, selling what little jewelry she has left. 
 
DURAN: I only have like two or three more pieces that I have for - as a backup resource. 
 
CHEN: The Los Angeles Regional Food Bank says they're tracking about 10 percent ahead in the amount of food distributed compared to last year. They're serving 900,000 people a month right now, near pandemic levels. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We can't turn nobody away.
 
CHEN (voice over): In New York City.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Some days you don't know where your next meal is coming from. 
 
CHEN (voice over): City Harvest says visits to city food pantries and soup kitchens are at the highest level on record. Even higher than the pandemic's peak. 
 
In Chicago, Common Pantry says they're serving 26 percent more households per month than last year. 
 
Across the country, 85 percent of food banks in a Feeding America survey reported similar or higher demand for food assistance comparing this August with last August. 
 
CHEN: Why do you think that is when inflation has actually cooled quite a bit?
 
MICHAEL FLOOD, CEO OF LOS Angeles REGIONAL FOOD BANK: I think what we're seeing here in Los Angeles is the cumulative impact of inflation. Food prices are about 25 percent higher than they were pre- pandemic. 
 
Now the unemployment rate has come down. We would expect the demand for food assistance to decrease. But that's not what has happened. 
 
CHEN (voice over): This comes as donations to food banks are also dropping. Ana Duran says something has got to change, which is why she cast a ballot for Trump, the first Republican she's ever voted for in her life. 
 
DURAN: When it came down to, you know, voting, I changed who I was and I changed - I'm hoping for the better.
 
CHEN (voice over): But Trump is exactly what Merril is worried about. 
 
MERREL: I am definitely worried it's going to get worse with the tariffs that Trump is putting on everybody. 
 
CHEN (voice over): He thinks prices will jump and more people will find themselves going to food banks. But the fact that the food banks even exist makes him feel grateful. 
 
MERREL: This is a beautiful country that we live in. It's a Happy Thanksgiving and Merry Christmas. 
 
CHEN (voice over): Natasha Chen, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ACOSTA: All right, in just a few short hours, CNN will bring you the first ever "Thanksgiving in America" special. The ultimate Thanksgiving morning watch party featuring celebrity appearances and a live view of parades across the country. For a preview, Erica Hill sat down with multi-platinum recording artist Andy Grammer.
 
All right, and Andy gave us an inside look at how he celebrates his Thanksgiving and gives thanks on this holiday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: Andy Grammer, thank you for joining us and Happy Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, everybody loves to talk about what they're thankful for, what they love to do. So, I'm going to throw you some of those hard-hitting questions on this Thanksgiving. 
 
ANDY GRAMMER, GRAMMY AWARD-WINNING SINGER: Thow them at me. What have we got?
 
HILL: Here we go. I knew you - I knew you could handle it. What are you excited about today? What do you - what do you enjoy
 
 about Thanksgiving?
 
GRAMMER: Oh man, you know, I've been out on tour a lot this year. And to just get to turn off and just be around family is - is really, really great. Actually, I married into a family of Louisiana musicians. So, a lot of times it's like a jam session at my house around Thanksgiving, which is great. 
 
HILL: Oh, that sounds - that sounds fantastic. We might - we might push for an invite next year.
 
So, I know family is really important to you. 
 
GRAMMER: Yes, exactly.
 
HILL: You also, as I understand it, giving back is also really important, especially around the holidays. And I think there's a little bit of that on deck for you and your family.
 <br>[07:00:02]
 
GRAMMER: Yes.