Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel Protesters Call for Support of New Peace Deal; Zelenskyy Attends Asia-Pacific Defense Summit in Singapore; 10M Plus Under Excessive Heat Watches Across Parts of U.S.; Poll: Economy Remains Top Issue for U.S. Voters. Aired 5-6a ET

Aired June 02, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:48]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom.
 
Protesters in Israel now calling directly on the Biden administration to bring an end to hostilities in Gaza. What we know about Israel's response to the latest ceasefire proposal. 
 
And Ukraine's President calling for more aid ahead of planned peace talks for his country. We're live in Singapore with details of his meeting with U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin. 
 
Plus, Mexican voters head to the polls today. How the threat of violence is looming over what is all but certain to be a historic result.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber.
 
BRUNHUBER: Protesters in Israel are reaching out directly to Joe Biden to break the deadlock over freeing hostages held in Gaza. Have a look. This was the scene from just one demonstration. 
 
A massive banner, you can see there, asking the U.S. President not only for help getting those captives out, but actually saving them from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
 
Some protesters clashed with police after voicing anger at the government in this rally, demanding that Netanyahu resign and that elections be held. All this coming after Biden laid out what he calls a new Israeli ceasefire proposal.
 
The U.N., the U.K., France, Saudi Arabia and the UAE are all expressing support for the plan, with mediators in Qatar and Egypt calling on Israel and Hamas to finalize the details. 
 
Joining us now is journalist Elliott Gotkine in Tel Aviv. So, Elliott, Biden's announcement of this peace proposal still reverberating strongly in Israel. What's the latest? ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST: Very much so, Kim. I think the key point to remember here is that the ceasefire proposal, which was conveyed to the world by President Biden in that very detailed statement on Friday, is the ceasefire proposal that was greenlit by Prime Minister Netanyahu and the other two members of his war cabinet. 
 
So I think what we're seeing from Netanyahu, when he came out with an unusual statement on the Jewish Sabbath, which he doesn't usually do, in which he said that any ceasefire proposal must not preclude Israel from fulfilling its war objectives.
 
And he reiterated what the conditions for a full cessation of hostilities, which comes in phase two of the three-phase ceasefire proposal, were -- and these are mainly to destroy the military and governance capabilities of Hamas, to get all of the hostages, 125 or so, living and dead, back from Gaza after they were abducted during the Hamas terrorist attacks of October 7, get them back into Israel. And then thirdly, to ensure that Gaza no longer poses a threat to Israel.
 
So I think what Netanyahu is trying to do is to clarify that, yes, this is Israel's ceasefire proposal, but that it doesn't preclude Israel from fulfilling those war objectives. 
 
Now, the ball is now in Hamas' court to make a final decision or announcement in terms of its position. Its initial reaction, it said, was positive and that it would deal with these proposals constructively. But I think also what Netanyahu was trying to do by getting this statement out during the Jewish Sabbath on Saturday was to preempt the inevitable blowback that he was going to get from the far-right members of his governing coalition and which duly arrived at the end of the Jewish Sabbath when the far-right ministers put out statements saying that this deal is tantamount to a capitulation to Hamas, that it is a defeat for Israel, they wouldn't support it, and if it goes ahead, they would pull out of the governing coalition. 
 
Now, that doesn't mean that the deal couldn't still get across the line with support from the opposition, and Yair Lapid, the opposition leader, says that he would support a deal if the government greenlights it. But, inevitably, it could mean the demise of Netanyahu's right-wing coalition government. It would mean fresh elections. And an opinion poll suggests that if elections were to be held tomorrow, Netanyahu would lose. So no doubt, Kim, that is something else that is playing on his mind.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, absolutely. All right. And then, Elliott, in the meantime, Netanyahu has accepted the joint meeting of Congress in Washington to go there. Obviously, the reaction, particularly among Democrats, is mixed. What's Netanyahu's aim here?
 <br>[05:05:07]
 
GOTKINE: So, look, he said he was thrilled to be invited. It's not his first rodeo. He's done it several times before. And he said that he will present the justness of Israel's cause in its fight against terrorism and against Hamas, which, of course, the United States designates as a terrorist organization. 
 
And I suppose he's also going to be trying to convince any wavering lawmakers, particularly among Democrats, that they are on the right side by supporting Israel and by standing by it. Of course, we've seen some weapons shipments being paused as a result of differences between the Biden administration and Israel. 
 
So I think Netanyahu, on the one hand, trying to, you know, ensure that he's still got the lawmakers in the United States on side. But I think also for his domestic audience to remind Israelis that he has the ear not just of the president, but also of lawmakers in the United States, that they can put their trust in him.
 
And that's certainly from his perspective. He is the only person that can represent Israel's interests with the United States, whether it's in collaboration with the United States or standing up to the United States. So I think those are pretty much the reasons why Netanyahu is, in his words, so thrilled to be invited to Congress by all four leaders, Democrat and Republican, to speak to Congress on an undefined date in the future. Kim?
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Appreciate those updates. Elliott Gotkine in Tel Aviv. Thanks so much.
 
New York is ramping up security for its annual Israel Day parade, which kicks off in just a few hours. Officials say the elaborate security plan is similar to the one used for New Year's Eve in Times Square. Police say they will not tolerate any violence or disorder after recent clashes with protesters in the city, but added that there are no specific or credible threats to the parade. This will be the first parade since the war began, so the usually joyful celebration will take a somber tone. 
 
Ukraine's largest hydroelectric dam is in critical condition after a barrage of Russian strikes on the country's power grid. That's according to regional military leaders who spoke after the sixth wave of Russian attacks on the energy system in recent weeks.
 
Officials say traffic around the Dnipro power plant is completely blocked after Saturday's attacks, and people in the area have to use detours to get around. Ukraine's energy ministry has imposed emergency blackouts in some parts of the country. 
 
Now, in the last hour, I spoke with Rebekah Maciorowski, a U.S. volunteer who serves as a combat medic in Ukraine, and I asked her how much the war is different now compared to the early days of the war. Here she is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REBEKAH MACIOROWSKI, COMBAT MEDIC: Frankly, things have gotten a lot more complicated in terms of advancements in the battlefield, particularly on the side of Russia, whereas a simple wound before could be 545 from an AK. Now we're seeing increased use of FPV, dropped mines from drones and increasing use of electronic warfare systems, which makes everything very complicated because now you have a piece of machinery that could be, you know, thousands upon thousands of dollars that could be easily destroyed by a $500 drone. 
 
So it's gotten complex. The injuries have gotten more complex. The situation has gotten more complex. And the -- frankly, the help has decreased.
 
BRUNHUBER: Now, this time last year, the picture for Ukraine seemed brighter. Russia's advance was held. Ukraine was talking about a counterattack. Now, the present day, Ukraine has lost territory. Its second biggest city faces the prospect of Russian soldiers closing in. So what's the morale like among the troops there these days?
 
MACIOROWSKI: The morale remains persistent. Ukrainians are determined to defend their homeland and their country, regardless of whatever help might be given to them. But the need for help has substantially increased. And at the same time, the actual giving of help has substantially decreased.
 
BRUNHUBER: One of the problems you face, you talk about, you know, needing more help. You face a lack of medical gear and the supplies that you get sometimes are substandard or don't work. Is that still a problem?
 
MACIOROWSKI: That is still a problem. And the fact of the matter is that these NATO nations have excellent quality combat medical gear, and that's something I would like to see included in future aid packages. There was allegedly some medical aid promised from another country. We have yet to see that. If the American military or even another NATO country could send quality medical gear, such as a personal first aid kit or quality tourniquets, that would make immense amounts of difference.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Troops in Ukraine are fighting a major new Russian offensive, and the country's president is in Singapore right now trying to drum up international support from new areas. Volodymyr Zelenskyy is attending the Shangri-La Dialogue, a meeting of defense ministers in Singapore. 
 <br>[05:10:06]
 
Zelenskyy's appearance at the conference came as a last-minute surprise. It's thought to be an effort to keep the world's attention on the war and Ukraine's need for outside help. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: It was exactly 28 years ago these days when Ukraine handed over its last nuclear warheads to Russia, in line with a multilateral international agreement. And it is Russia that has tried to erase Ukraine from the political map of the world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Now at the conference this hour, U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin is scheduled to meet with the defense ministers of Japan and South Korea. 
 
CNN International Correspondent Ivan Watson is live in Singapore. So, Ivan, take us through what Zelenskyy had to say and what he's hoping to get out of this?
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, well, he brought Europe's deadliest war right here to the heart of Asia to this annual security conference. Clearly trying to garner more Asian support for Ukraine in a deadly conflict that's now gone on for more than two years. Trying to attract participants to a peace conference that Ukraine is promoting for Switzerland in a couple of weeks' time. 
 
And he had some choice words of criticism for China, accusing Beijing of essentially supporting Russia and prolonging the war. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): With the support of China, China supporting Russia, war will be much longer. It's bad for the whole world. And for the policy of China, which says, respects the main principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, I think it's not very good for them either.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WATSON: So, Zelenskyy was a surprise arrival here last night. He said that he has not had a face-to-face meeting with members of the Chinese delegation. The Chinese Minister of Defense spoke here this morning calling for peace when it comes to the war between Russia and Ukraine.
 
Zelenskyy went on to say that he and his government have tried for the past year to arrange talks with Chinese officials at different levels, and they have not succeeded. 
 
Meanwhile, the Chinese government has hosted Vladimir Putin in Beijing within the last month. Xi Jinping describing Putin as a dear friend, and the two leaders have met dozens of times.
 
This was only one of the flashpoints of disagreement that came up at this annual conference. You did have a meeting between the Secretary of Defense of the U.S. and the Chinese Minister of Defense last year. There were no formal face-to-face talks.
 
So, in a way, that's perceived as an improvement. But there was -- there were still major areas of criticism. The Chinese Minister of Defense this morning accusing the U.S. of stirring up trouble in Taiwan, for example, accusing the newly elected Taiwanese government of being separatists and saying, quote, "that they will be nailed to the pillar of shame of history" and accusing the U.S. of dumping weapons in Taiwan, also having criticism for the Philippines for its ongoing territorial dispute and skirmishes with the Chinese Coast Guard in the South China Sea. 
 
So there is no shortage of disagreement and areas of conflict. And that is part of why you get the top brass from countries around the world gathering here under this one roof to try to ensure that more hot conflicts don't erupt around these areas of disagreement. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Ivan Watson in Singapore, thanks so much. 
 
Coming up, a fast-moving grass fire is spreading in Northern California, and officials warn that extreme heat in the coming days will make the situation worse.
 
And millions in the U.S. are under excessive heat watches as scorching temperatures make their mark early in the summer season. All that and much more straight ahead on CNN Newsroom. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:18:19]
 
BRUNHUBER: Atlanta is waking up to a state of emergency declared by the city's mayor after two major water main breaks left parts of the city without water. The breaks happened on Friday. City officials say one of the breaks has already been repaired, but pressure needs to build before that system can be brought back online. Crews are still working to fix the other break, and no timeline has been given for completion. Meanwhile, parts of Georgia's capital remain under a boil water advisory. 
 
A grass fire that started in northern California on Saturday has burned more than 11,000 acres. The Corral Fire is only 13% contained according to California's Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. It's burning in San Joaquin county, south of Sacramento and east of San Francisco. 
 
Authorities have ordered residents in some areas to evacuate and warn that strong winds and extreme heat into next week will make conditions even more dangerous.
 
The official start of summer here in the northern hemisphere may still be weeks away, but the sweltering summer heat is already here in parts of the U.S., with high temperatures triggering excessive heat watches from more than 10 million people across parts of the west and southern U.S. Temperatures this weekend are expected to hit 100 degrees Fahrenheit for multiple cities in the southwest, and dozens of locations could see record highs by the end of the coming week. 
 
So for more of all this and the long-term trends, I'm joined now by Jeff Goodell. He's the author of the New York Times bestseller, "The Heat Will Kill You First: Life and Death on a Scorched Planet."
 
Thank you so much for being here with us. So I know you agree with this. I don't want to be all doom and gloom, but it is vital to state the problem first. We can feel it. We live it every summer, and it seems if the current high temperatures that I just mentioned are any indication, this summer will be basically the same story. So put it into context for us. Just how hot are things getting these days?
 <br>[05:20:17]
 
JEFF GOODELL, AUTHOR, "THE HEAT WILL KILL YOU FIRST: LIFE AND DEATH ON A SCORCHED PLANET": Well, one way to think about it is that the 10 hottest years that human beings have ever recorded on this planet, so basically since we've been recording temperatures, have occurred in the last decade. 2023 was the hottest of the hottest years.
 
You know, we have seen a rise of temperatures of about two degrees, a little bit less than two degrees Fahrenheit since the Industrial Revolution, which doesn't sound like a lot, but is really changing the sort of temperature balance on the planet and causing these sort of extreme heat waves and spiking of temperature that we're seeing around the world.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah. Now, things are just going to get worse. When we talk about heat, you know, we can talk about sort of the broad weather patterns and how it contributes to fires and extreme weather events and so on and so forth. But just in terms of how we experience it, it's much more than just discomfort. In your book, you call it a predatory force. What do you mean by that?
 
GOODELL: Well, first of all, let me say, you mentioned it's just going to get worse. Let me be clear. It's just going to get worse as long as we continue burning fossil fuels, which puts CO2 into the atmosphere. That's the main driver of this heat. That's really important to clarify. When we stop burning fossil fuels and dumping CO2 in the atmosphere, the temperature rise will slow down and stop.
 
Heat is a predatory force because it preys on the most vulnerable. People who are older, who have heart conditions, pregnant women, young children, outdoor workers. They are the people who are most vulnerable to these temperature changes. A lot of people watching this perhaps live lives where it gets hot outside and they retreat into air conditioning.
 
It's really important to realize that, you know, hundreds of millions of people on this planet don't have that kind of luxury and are vulnerable to these spikes of temperature.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. So let's get to solutions here, obviously, as you mentioned, there are -- there are macro solutions in terms of cutting down on greenhouse gases and so on. But if we're going to be living in a hotter world, we have to adapt. For those of us here in North America, I mean, there has to be more to it than just cranking up the A.C., right?
 
GOODELL: Exactly. I mean, we have to rethink how we live. You know, first of all, we have to rethink how we build cities. You know, more and more people are living in cities. Cities are hotter than the surrounding area. A lot of this is problems related to cities. So we need to think differently about shade, about green spaces, about access to cooling centers, about how do we get more people access to air conditioning, even though air conditioning is problematic in lots of ways. 
 
But we're also going to have to think differently about, you know, how and where we -- we grow our food, things like that. Disease patterns. These things are all shifting as a result of this rising heat. BRUNHUBER: Yeah. Some cities like Miami, L.A., Phoenix have heat officers. Most cities enact some sort of heat plans, which are all important. Are there any success stories out there that other U.S. cities would -- would do well to look at and maybe emulate?
 
GOODELL: Well, there's a number of cities that are taking some pretty dramatic action. They still have a long way to go. I think the sort of poster child for this is Paris, which has really gone a long way in sort of rethinking the way the city is organized. They've created a lot of green spaces, planted a lot of trees, trying to narrow some of the broad boulevards to allow more access for pedestrians and biking, banned internal combustion engines from parts of downtown and done things that are really important, like made Seine, the river that runs through the center of Paris, swimmable on -- on hot days, giving people access to cooling. I think they're really the sort of leaders in -- in thinking about this. 
 
But other cities like Phoenix have done an amazing job planting urban trees. A lot of cities are undertaking that. Athens is rebuilding an aqueduct to bring more water into the city to help with cooling and watering of trees and other green spaces. So there's -- there's a lot that's being done, but there's a long way to go.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, a long way to go. Certainly a good day to think about this is today is Global Heat Action Day. Really appreciate all of your expertise. Jeff Goodell in Austin, Texas. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it.
 
GOODELL: Thanks for having me.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Voting will begin in just hours as Mexico prepares for a historic election after a political cycle plagued by deadly violence. We'll have more on that next. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:28:29]
 
BRUNHUBER: Welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom.
 
In South Africa, the newly formed MK party is threatening to challenge the results in court, claiming without evidence that the vote was rigged. 
 
Now, this is the party's surprisingly strong showing, looks set to cost the ruling African National Congress its majority for the first time in 30 years. The party of Nelson Mandela will be forced to form a coalition with parties like MK in order to stay in power, with counting nearly complete support from the ANC is just over 40%.
 
Voting will soon begin in the largest elections in Mexico's history. More than 20,000 positions are on the ballot nationwide. Now, this could be a historic moment as Mexicans are likely to elect their first female president. That potential milestone has been overshadowed by campaign violence, a political cycle marred by multiple assassinations and unspeakable brutality. Details now from CNN's Rafael Romo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It happened in broad daylight. A mayoral candidate in Mexico shot in the head on the last day of campaigning.
 
ANA MARIA SALAZAR, FORMER U.S. DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: He was killed in front of all his followers, and he had 10 people who were supposed to be providing him security because he had been threatened.
 
ROMO: The murder is the latest example of a wave of political violence in Mexico as voters get ready to go to the polls on Sunday. 
 
In early April, another mayoral candidate in the city of Celaya was gunned down, one of more than 20 political killings in September, according to the Mexican government. 
 <br>[05:30:07]
 
By some estimates, that number is even higher. At least 34 candidates murdered, according to Mexican consultancy firm Integralia.
 
SALAZAR: One of the most violent and deadly elections in Mexican history.
 
ROMO: Former U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Ana Maria Salazar says organized crime is at the root of most political violence in Mexico.
 
SALAZAR: Well, they're controlling the economy, the former economy of these -- of these municipalities. So they're hostages. And this is clearly being reflected during this electoral process, where they're trying to also control who's going to be elected.
 
ROMO: Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador acknowledged in early May that there have been more murders than in previous administrations. But he also said that other crimes like robberies and kidnappings are down. 
 
CARLOS RAMIREZ, POLITICAL RISK CONSULTANT, INTEGRALIA: It's a multidimensional problem, which Lopez Obrador hasn't tackled.
 
ROMO: But Political Risk Consultant Carlos Ramirez says the president's policy of spending on social programs in the hopes of improving the security situation has failed.
 
RAMIREZ: Yes, Lopez Obrador cherishes that some of the criminal numbers have been going down, but really they have been going down marginally and others have been going up very quickly as extortion, for example.
 
ROMO (On camera): There are nearly 99 million Mexican voters who are eligible to participate in this election. Mexican officials say there will be around 170,000 polling places around the nation. But security analysts say many voters may choose to stay away because in some areas exercising one's right to vote is not safe.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): The threat of political violence is personal for Jesus Corona. 
 
ROMO (voice-over): The mayoral candidate in the central Mexican city of Cuautla survived an assassination attempt earlier this year when two men on a motorcycle sped past and opened fire. 
 
They want me to drop out of the campaign, he said. They don't want me to participate. They want to continue with this corrupt government. 
 
The risk of violence is also faced by those tied to the candidates, including relatives and aides. According to Integralia, more than 700 people have been threatened, kidnapped, extorted or murdered, among other crimes, since campaigns started in September. 
 
Rafael Romo, CNN Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Well, the Biden administration appears to be on the verge of taking an aggressive new step on border security. Sources say the White House is reaching out to mayors of cities along the U.S. southern border to potentially join the president next week for an executive order rollout. Executive action would limit migrants' ability to seek asylum. It's expected to be similar to a controversial measure from the Trump era. 
 
Border security is one big issue for U.S. voters, but it's not the only thing on people's minds as the U.S. faces its own election season. In fact, a new Reuters-Ipsos poll found that the economy was the top issue for all voters for five weeks running.
 
That was the number one issue specifically for Republicans and second for Democrats. Forty percent of respondents in the poll say Trump had better policies for the U.S. economy compared to 30% who picked Biden. 
 
And joining me now from Washington is Celinda Lake, President at Lake Research Partners, and she's one of the Democratic Party's leading political strategists. 
 
Thank you so much for being here with us. So -- 
 
CELINDA LAKE, PRESIDENT, LAKE RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you for having me.
 
BRUNHUBER: You're welcome. So, there seems to be, you know, very broadly speaking, nostalgia for the Trump economy, the perception that we were doing better then. So, what do you see when you look at the polling numbers?
 
LAKE: Well, you're absolutely right. And it's funny, because at the time, and like at the 2020 election, people thought that Biden and Trump were equal on the economy and gave Trump negative job performance ratings on the economy. But people tend to assume that Republicans and businessmen are better on the economy. And people are really worried about the rising cost of living, and that's particularly concerning to women voters.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, I want to talk to you about that specifically. I mean, kitchen table economics, I mean, that's, you know, applies to both men and women. But certainly, it's a concern for women as well. It might be an advantage for Republicans, right? Because despite the economy's big picture numbers not being bad, I mean, markets are setting records these days, people's perception of the economy, how they feel it and experience it, it isn't matching up. Why is that?
 
LAKE: Well, the things that people are focused on are everyday costs, and those have been going up. And even when you take inflation down, when you slow the increase in inflation, since 2019, you still had a 20% increase in terms of rising prices for food, which is the dominant thing that women are worried about. Women in America go to the grocery store three times a week.
 <br>[05:35:12]
 
And health care costs, which are going up, and people are renewing their plans and facing higher deductibles. So, the administration has been very aggressive about taking after junk fees and price gouging and gas prices, opposing mergers of grocery stores, but it's -- voters are looking for ever more action on inflation and rising costs.
 
BRUNHUBER: So, if Republicans are closing the gender gap? More women seem to be voting for Donald Trump. If Biden has to count on young women and women of color, on the economy specifically, does he have a bigger challenge, Biden, to connect with them because of who he is, an older man who might seem sort of out of touch with their economic concerns? I mean, you think having Kamala Harris as a vice president would help there, but is she?
 
LAKE: Well, it's actually older women who are more focused and older, non-college-educated women who feel their incomes really haven't kept up with the rising cost of living. Younger women and women of color are focused on the economy, but they're also really focused on the abortion issue. And that helps the Biden administration with younger women and with women of color.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. I mean, the stakes obviously couldn't be higher. For Democrats on that issue, the margins for this election are so thin. How Biden performs with women, I mean, it could essentially win him or cost him the election, right?
 
LAKE: That's absolutely right. The formula for success for Biden is to win women by more than you lose men. And there is a big gender gap right now. It's growing and it'll be very, very important for the Biden administration, the Biden-Harris team to seem in touch with kitchen table concerns, as you said, and real people's lived experience, not just aggregate economic numbers.
 
BRUNHUBER: So how do they actually go about doing that? I mean, just telling people that their lives are better, that the inflation is kind of slowing, I mean, it doesn't seem to be cutting it. So how are they going to actually achieve that?
 
LAKE: I think they need to continue what they started. And they started with the State of the Union, which is to really be in touch with people's concerns. So we know it's tough out there, not that it's great out there, that we've done X, Y and Z.
 
But that's not good enough. We're going to keep at it until people's families are thriving and people can count on the economy improving for themselves. 
 
One of the things that's really interesting is that number that you gave of the advantage for Republicans diminishes and disappears when you ask people who's better for you and your family. So that's got to be the focus.
 
BRUNHUBER: Interesting. Listen, we'll see how it all shakes out. But really great to have your expertise on this morning. Celinda Lake, thank you so much.
 
LAKE: Thank you for having me.
 
BRUNHUBER: Well, shots are fired during a dance event at a Native American reservation, leaving multiple deaths and injuries. Now, the community takes a dramatic step to prevent that from happening again. That's ahead.
 
And it was a case that made headlines because of the couple's unusual religious beliefs that families of the victims react as doomsday killer. Chad Daybell is sentenced to death for the murders of his wife's two children and his former wife.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:41:43]
 
BRUNHUBER: Native American community in Arizona has imposed a moratorium on dancing events after a deadly shooting on Saturday. It happened during one such event at the Gila River Indian Reservation southeast of Phoenix. Police say shots were fired after officers responded to a disturbance which left two people dead and five others wounded.
 
One of the fatalities was Officer Joshua Briese, who was on the force for less than a year. Another officer was among the wounded, and he's now in serious condition. Local police and the FBI are investigating the incident.
 
Officials in Maryland say a registered sex offender accused of killing his parole officer has been captured. The suspect was stopped in traffic by U.S. Marshals, Fugitive Task Force officers in neighboring West Virginia. He's been charged with second-degree murder.
 
Police say the victim, 33-year-old Davis Martinez, left work to perform a parole check on the suspect. He was then discovered dead. Officials have ruled his death a homicide. A possible mass shooting in Akron, Ohio, has left dozens of people wounded. CNN affiliate WEWS is reporting that at least one person is dead. At least 26 others are injured, and many have been rushed to nearby hospitals. At least two patients are in critical condition. A spokesperson for Summa Health System thanked first responders and says, our thoughts are with the victims and their families. We'll keep you updated on this story as we get more details.
 
Nearly a year after his wife, Lori, was convicted and sentenced to life in prison, Chad Daybell has been sentenced to death for murdering two of her children and his first wife, Tammy. It was a case that made headlines because of Chad and Lori Daybell's unusual religious beliefs. Camila Bernal has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The jury in this case decided that Chad Daybell should spend the rest of his life on death row, and they found the aggravating factors in this case to be true, saying that the crimes he committed were atrocious and cruel, saying that he had done this for money, that he had utter disregard for human life, and that he would be a threat to society. 
 
This is the same jury that found him guilty of killing his first wife, Tammy, and killing the two children of his second wife, 16-year-old Tylee and 7-year-old JJ. The prosecution in this case saying that this was a case fueled by sex, money, power, and apocalyptic religious beliefs, saying that these two, Chad Daybell and Lori Vallow Daybell, essentially did anything they could to be together and said that anyone that got in the way of this, whether it was because they were the children or the wife, or if there was any financial gains to be made of this, would be marked for death. 
 
This was a man that the prosecution said would label people as dark or as zombies, and, of course, this resulted in the bodies of these children being found in Chad Daybell's property, you know, Tylee burned, JJ found with his arms tied with duct tape and plastic bags covering him. This has been extremely emotional for the families of the children and the families of Tammy as well. A lot of them speaking out after this death sentence. Take a listen to what they said.
 <br>[05:45:19]
 
COLBY RYAN, LORI VALLOW DAYBELL'S SON: You never wish harm on anybody, regardless of what they've done to you. But at the end of the day, it's good that he can't hurt anybody else.
 
SAMANTHA GWILLIAM, TAMMY DAYBELL'S SISTER: We got justice for our loved ones, and that was always what this was about, getting justice for them.
 
JASON GWILLIAM, TAMMY DAYBELL'S BROTHER-IN-LAW: We can all start to heal from this terrible loss we have suffered. We'll miss Tammy every single day of our lives, but we do have some comfort knowing that we will see her again someday. BERNAL: And despite all the emotion from the family, Chad Daybell did not show any emotion while his verdict was read. He chose not to speak after his sentencing. His attorney did speak during the sentencing portion of the trial and essentially put the blame on Lori Vallow Daybell, who has also been found guilty of these crimes. She is facing life in prison without the possibility of parole. The death penalty was not on the table for her. Camila Bernal, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Well, an amazing rescue off the Florida coast where a child and seven adults were found clinging to a cooler after their boat overturned near Boca Grande. The U.S. Coast Guard caught a distress call saying the boat was sinking. Crews responded by helicopter and retrieved all eight people from the water.
 
You see there, Coast Guard officials say the boaters were carrying all of the life-saving equipment they could and wearing their life jackets, which helped bring about the successful rescue. 
 
All right, still to come, the Florida Panthers advance to the Stanley Cup Finals for a second straight season. We'll tell you how they clinched their historic win straight ahead here on CNN. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:50:48]
 
BRUNHUBER: China is making history after its Chang'e 6 probe landed on the far side of the moon Sunday. The country's space administration calls -- says the craft will spend about two days collecting samples from the moon's dark side for the first time in history. Our Marc Stewart has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This successful lunar landing is certainly an accomplishment for China on a scientific front. But it's also a source of patriotism as the nation looks to assert itself as a dominant space power. 
 
(Voice-over): The Chang'e 6 space probe touched down on the far side of the moon Sunday morning Beijing time. It landed on the South Pole, an area known as the Aitken basin. The goal is to collect samples that experts say could provide clues into the origin of the moon, earth and the solar system. Yet this mission is helping China get data and the technical skills as it looks to propel its ambitions on the moon including a research base. There is no crew on board. Robots are at work. 
 
This is video from May when the Chinese government invited CNN to the space center on Hainan Island to chronicle the launch. It comes at a time when other nations have lunar ambitions including the United States and India. 
 
(On camera): China is planning other launches as it maintains its goal of sending astronauts to the moon by 2030. Marc Stewart, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: NASA and its mission partners are pressing pause on the Boeing Starliner launch. The decision came late Saturday hours after the launch attempt was scrubbed less than four minutes from liftoff due to technical issues. A highly anticipated inaugural test flight was supposed to carry NASA astronauts to and from the international space station. NASA says it will provide an update later today on next steps for the flight. The next launch window is Wednesday morning. 
 
The Florida Panthers are headed to the NHL's Stanley Cup Final for the second straight season. And Coy Wire joins us now with more -- more. 
 
So Coy, how hard is it to -- to get to this point? I mean, twice in two seasons. I mean, it's -- it's incredible?
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yeah, it really is. Rare air indeed, Kim. The Panthers are the first team to advance to back-to-back Stanley Cup Finals since the Pittsburgh Penguins accomplished the feat back in 2009.
 
Florida was in it to win it against the New York Rangers in front of their home fans on Saturday night. Sam Bennett getting the cats on the board first in the first period. Thunderous one-timer from the circle.
 
Then Vladimir Tarasenko adding an insurance goal in the third period. Panthers fans throwing plastic rats onto the ice as time expired in the two-to-one win, continuing the longstanding tradition dating back to the team's first Cup Final appearance in 1996. 
 
Now this year's squad waits to play the winner of the Edmonton Oilers and Dallas Star series with a chance to win the first title in team history.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEKSANDER BARKOV, FLORIDA PANTHERS CAPTAIN: We all know the job is not finished. We still want to get that big prize and work really hard for it.
 
MATTHEW TKACHUK, FLORIDA PANTHERS FORWARD: It's special for us to be back in this position after such a tough loss last year. I just remember going around the locker room after losing game five against Vegas, going around telling everybody, you know, we'll be back. We'll be back. Well, we're back right now. So we're really excited.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: I'll check this out, Kim. Coach Paul Maurice telling his players don't touch the trophy. So as Panthers avoid touching the Eastern Conference champions Prince of Wales trophy, superstition is real. Last year they touched it and they lost in the Stanley Cup Final. 
 
Meantime, Real Madrid are champions of Europe for a record-extending 15th time in club history after beating Borussia Dortmund 2-0 in the Champions League final at Wembley Stadium in London. That's more than double Europe's second most successful team, AC Milan.
 
Real breaking through in the 74th minute with a header from Dani Carvajal off a corner kick. Then in the 83rd minute, Jude Bellingham assisting Vinicius Junior to wrap up the match. Bellingham giving an emotional interview after the win.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUDE BELLINGHAM, REAL MADRID MIDFIELDER: I've always dreamed of playing in these games. And you know, you go through life and there's so many people who say you can't do things. And I was all right that I've seen my mom and dad's face there. And the amount of nights where they could be at home by 7 o'clock and they're doing trips at 11, 12 at night to take me to football, man. I've got my little brother there who I'm trying to be a role model for and things like that. And yeah, I can't put it into words. It's the best night of my life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Caitlin Clark and Angel Reese facing off in the WNBA for the first time since March Madness when 20-some million people tuned in to see their collegiate game. Clark finishing with 11 points, becoming the first rookie to score 150 points, 50 rebounds and 50 assists in their first 10 games. 
 
Reese making history too, 13 rebounds, 8 of them offensive, the most by a rookie in Chicago Sky history. But then, close game controversy. Chennedy Carter making a shot, then blindside blasting Clark. The two- time national player of the year gone tumbling to the ground. Reese and teammates were celebrating afterwards. Fever, hold on to get their first home win 71-70. Here's Clark on the foul.
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAITLIN CLARK, INDIANA FEVER GUARD: I wasn't expecting it, but I think it's just like, just respond, come down, let your play do the talking. It is what it is. It's a physical game. Go make the free throw and then execute on offense.
 
CHENNEDY CARTER. CHICAGO SKY GUARD: I didn't answer no Caitlin Clark questions. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did she say anything to you? 
 
CARTER: I don't know what she said.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What did she say to her? 
 
CARTER; I didn't say anything. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That's enough.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) WIRE: Kim, that was a controversial play because many people are saying, hey, she's a rookie. She needs to take it. That's how it's going to be. The others are saying that she's been getting too much aggression from opponents all season long and that the WNBA needs to step in and do something.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, absolutely. I'm also interested in that Clark-Reese sort of rivalry. Could we be seeing the WNBA equivalent of the magic bird rivalry? Who knows? Time will tell, I guess, right?
 
WIRE: Yes, sir. And exciting stuff. It would definitely be something that we'll continue to watch and enjoy doing so.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Thanks so much, Coy. Appreciate it.
 
WIRE: All right.
 
BRUNHUBER: Well, that wraps this hour of CNN Newsroom. I'm Kim Brunhuber. For viewers in North America, CNN This Morning is next. For the rest of the world, it's Connecting Africa.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:00:00]