Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Netanyahu Vows to Target Hezbollah Everywhere in Lebanon; Four Israeli Soldiers Killed in Hezbollah Drone Attack; U.S. to Send Anti- Missile System to Israel; 19 Killed in Israeli Strike on Lebanese Village; Taiwan Condemns Beijing's Military Drills; China Sends Two New Pandas to Washington; Sean "Diddy" Combs Faces at Least Six New Lawsuits; Paris Motor Show Kicks off As European Car Industry in Crisis; Poll Shows No Clear Leader in Presidential Race; Proto's First Holographic Communications Platform; NASA Sends Spacecraft to Europa. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 14, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Diddy is currently in federal custody. He's awaiting trial on counts of racketeering, conspiracy, sex trafficking, and 
 
 more. He has pleaded not guilty. The news continues on CNN with Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  It's 6:00 a.m. in Beijing, 7:00 a.m. in Seoul, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move" once again. And here's today's need to know, Lebanon -- in the nation's north. Taiwan tensions. China completes 
 
 military drills around the island warning against acts of independence. Coming to America to giant pandas leave China as the beloved bears head to 
 
 Washington, D.C. And teleporting tech. Holographic communications platform Proto explains how they can transport you from one place to another, 
 
 virtually, at least. We'll bring you that conversation and plenty more to you later on in the show.
 
But first, a defiant message from Israel's prime minister vowing to target Hezbollah everywhere in Lebanon. It follows one of the bloodiest attacks on 
 
 Israel since October 7th. Four IDF soldiers were killed after a Hezbollah drone targeted a military base Sunday. More than 60 people were injured.
 
The U.S. now sending an advanced anti-missile system to Israel, along with U.S. troops to operate it. This, as Israel continues to pound targets 
 
 inside Lebanon. On Monday, at least 19 people were killed in a Northern Lebanese village, according to the nation's Red Cross. The attack on the 
 
 Christian majority village destroyed a building that was housing those who'd escaped from Lebanon's south.
 
Nic Robertson has the very latest from Jerusalem for us. Nic, good to see you. I want to talk about that drone attack on Israel. I guess the key 
 
 question is now, how did that happen and how do the Israelis prevent that happening again?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, and it's getting a huge amount of political attention as well as public attention. 
 
 Not only was the defense minister there early hours today, but the prime minister visited as well, which shows you this is an important issue for 
 
 the nation because something like this hasn't happened before. Something as deadly as this on troops so far from the front lines, nothing like it, at 
 
 least since October the 6th last year.
 
And I think you get a sense as well, you know, from talking to people here there is a shock and that need to understand. And that's what the IDF is 
 
 says they're trying to do. They are trying to understand. They are trying to figure out. They said that they intercepted two ballistic missiles as 
 
 there -- two rather drones as they came over the border from Lebanon about 7:00 yesterday evening. And they say that they hit one of them and then the 
 
 other one disappeared. And the question for them right now is how did it disappear? Where did it go? Did it fly low? Has Hezbollah learned a new 
 
 trick? Have they got some new technology on board their drones?
 
But the shock of it, and that impact when it hit last night, the timing, it seems time to cause maximum, maximum troop casualties.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Moments after impact, elite Golani Brigade trainees struggle to save lives. The worst of the wounded whisked away to 
 
 nearby hospitals by helicopter. Others taken by ambulance. Medics swarming to the IDF base, 40 miles from the front line in Lebanon.
 
Within hours, the toll becoming clear, four dead, eight others seriously injured, making it the deadliest for troops outside of combat zones since 
 
 October 7th last year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  We need an improvement to our defense.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Israel's prime minister on site, inspecting the damage inside the canteen, which appears to have been the target. Timed 
 
 close to 7:00 p.m., when troops would have been having dinner. Uncompromising in his response.
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  I want to clarify, we will continue to strike Hezbollah without mercy everywhere in 
 
 Lebanon, including Beirut.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  After the strike, Hezbollah claiming it was a complex attack involving rockets, the decoy, Israel's air defenses, and a 
 
 swarm of drones.
 
Regardless of this claim, in recent days they've been threatening strikes on gatherings of troops away from the war at Lebanon's border. And in 
 
 recent months have released what they claim is drone surveillance video of sensitive sites deep inside Israel.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
But Hezbollah may have had unwitting help from the IDF in their intelligence gathering. An IDF promotional video of the base, 30 miles 
 
 north of Tel Aviv, reveals its layout in detail, including the location of the canteen.
 
As the IDF expands its cross-border raids, it says are targeting Hezbollah in an increasingly protracted campaign there, a new reality is emerging. 
 
 After heavy blows, Hezbollah is finding its feet and its wings becoming a lethal threat far from the frontlines. The four trainee troops who died, 
 
 all 19 years old.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (on camera):  You know, I think that's part of what gets people here, so many parents across the country now have kids in combat. Tens of 
 
 thousands of troops in Gaza, tens of thousands at the border in Lebanon many others in training, many others being called up. You know, you talk to 
 
 parents here and they say, whenever the phone rings, they look at it because is it my kid calling from the frontline with some emergency or 
 
 some, you know, desperate information for me?
 
In that way, the country lives on edge. And that's what made the shot last night even bigger. These young training troops weren't even at the 
 
 frontline.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And in the meantime, the Israeli prime minister has said, look, we're going to continue to target Hezbollah in Lebanon, including -- 
 
 and we've seen the collateral damage or caught in the crossfire, at least U.N. peacekeepers, Nic.
 
I just -- I want to get your sense of what you're thinking in the -- we called it earlier on Quest Means Business, the war of words, you called it 
 
 the toxic relationship between the United Nations and what we're seeing in Israel and the risk now, according to the U.N. secretary general's 
 
 spokesperson, that they face the risk of war crimes being perpetrated against them if they remain there, and they're going to do so.
 
ROBERTSON:  Yes, look, it's toxic at so many levels, whether it's UNRWA, the main relief agency in Gaza for the Palestinians, also they're there in 
 
 Lebanon as well, which the government here is vilified because members of UNRWA workers for UNRWA were part of that Hamas attack October the 7th last 
 
 year. There's that, there's all the undermining that goes on there.
 
And here you have the UNIFIL troops on the border with Lebanon sort of on the blue line there. This line that was supposed to demarcate and separate 
 
 and keep Hezbollah away from the border per the agreement 2006, U.N. Security Council Resolution 1701. Israel doesn't believe those UNIFIL 
 
 troops have done their job keeping Hezbollah away. They also believe that Hezbollah hides behind those posts.
 
So, what happens when the conflict begins? The IDF has had strikes that have caused, up until this weekend, five casualties that we're aware of 
 
 UNIFIL troops. It's drawing outrage from the countries that contribute troops to UNIFIL, it's drawn condemnation from the U.N. secretary general 
 
 and others in the peacekeeping mission at the U.N. It doesn't seem to be going to a good place, and the prime minister has doubled down.
 
And he says, look, we are not targeting those troops. We've been telling them to get out of the border. They're in the way. Hezbollah is hiding 
 
 behind them. Hezbollah is using them as essentially human shields, they're saying, and witness the situation at the weekend, where the IDF say that 
 
 they were ambushed. They were ambushed right by one of those U.N. bases. They used smoke to get the -- their troops out of that ambush. The smoke 
 
 caused problems for the troops, for the U.N. troops hiding on that base.
 
It seems very clear that the conflict is happening around the U.N. and it would -- this wouldn't be the first time in these cross-border conflicts 
 
 going back to 2006 where the U.N. has literally had to pull its troops out of the way. The difference now is they're refusing to do that and saying 
 
 that Israel may be constituting war crimes, as you say.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Difficult to get the separations. We can see. Nic, good to get your context as always. Thank you so much. Nic Robertson there.
 
Now, to Taiwan, where the government is condemning the latest round of Chinese military drills, calling them unreasonable provocation. Taipei says 
 
 it's tracked a record 125 Chinese aircraft and dozens of military ships on Monday. Beijing says the drills were a warning over what it calls, quote, 
 
 "separatist acts." Will Ripley is in Taipei and has more.
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Here in the Taiwanese capital, there is certainly no palpable sense of panic. Most people just 
 
 going about their daily lives, even as leaders condemn this latest round of People's Liberation Army drills.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
China, pointing to last week's speech by Taiwan president, Lai Ching-te, as the reason for launching these drills, although experts say they were 
 
 probably just combing through his speech, looking for any line that they could use as an excuse, frankly, to launch yet another round of military 
 
 exercises. They did the same thing after Taiwan's presidential inauguration back in May of this year. Those drills by Taiwanese estimates cost China 
 
 millions of dollars. They say China spent billions of dollars during the whole year of 2023 staging military drills near Taiwan.
 
So, people around here are certainly used to this in the scheme of things. These drills are not as large or intense as of yet as previous drills that 
 
 we've seen, even though China did dispatch one of their aircraft carriers off the east coast of Taiwan. But analysts say these exercises are still 
 
 very dangerous and problematic, and a reason for Taiwan and the world to be concerned.
 
CHEN MING-CHI, CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY CHINA, NATIONAL TSING HUA UNIVERSITY:  I think they want to impose a new normal. They are approaching 
 
 closer and closer. So, it's highly dangerous that will leave us very short response time.
 
WEN-TI SUNG, GLOBAL CHINA HUB, ATLANTIC COUNCIL:  Beijing definitely wants to show force, but it doesn't want to show force to increase so much in 
 
 intensity or quality so as to almost force the hand of American presidential candidates to come up with much more tougher line posture 
 
 against Beijing.
 
RIPLEY:  For its part, the U.S. is warning that these military drills have the potential to ratchet up tensions in this region. China's Coast Guard 
 
 also involved. They put out a map on Chinese state media showing those red blocks, the different locations around Taiwan, where the drills are taking 
 
 place also at Taiwan's outlying Matsu Islands.
 
And what experts say is that this is intended to show Taiwan what a blockade could look like. Of course, a blockade, analysts say, could be a 
 
 precursor to an invasion. Taiwan relies very heavily on imports of, among other things, coal to generate energy. So, a blockade could very quickly 
 
 turn the lights off here for a lot of people.
 
And yet, regular folks who are aware of these drills say, this has been happening, they're used to it, and they're going on with their daily lives.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  If they actually attack, we'll just have to deal with it. Hopefully, they won't.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  I think no matter what happens, peace is the most important thing.
 
RIPLEY:  Keeping the peace is certainly a priority of a lot of folks around here, and these drills, while provocative, experts say aren't really moving 
 
 the needle any closer towards an actual armed confrontation.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Will Ripley there. Now, pandemonium in the United States, and I'm not talking about the elections. Two giant pandas, 
 
 in fact, are making their way from Southern China to the National Zoo in Washington. Three-year-olds, Bao Li and Qing Bao, are the first new pandas 
 
 sent by China to the United States Capitol in 24 years.
 
If you remember, their previous pair returned to China with their cub last November, leaving the zoo's panda exhibit empty. China's renewed panda 
 
 diplomacy with the U.S. is a rare bright spot in the increasingly tense relations between the two countries. CNN was the only U.S. media on hand to 
 
 witness the preparations and the departure. And David Culver gives us a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  We've traveled here to Sichuan, China for a rare look at preparing these pandas for their very 
 
 long journey.
 
We're in and around the city of Chengdu. It's known for spicy hot pot, its mountainous landscape, and giant pandas.
 
We're actually going to go meet now with some of the folks from the Smithsonian National Zoo from D.C. who have flown here and are part of the 
 
 transition team to bring Bao Li and Qing Bao back to the U.S.
 
We can't go back there, but that's where Bao Li and Qing Bao are. They're in quarantine. And those you saw there were the zookeepers from the 
 
 National Zoo, as well as some caretakers from China.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So, they both have pretty different personalities. Bao Li has a huge personality. So, he's very vocal, he's very energetic, 
 
 and he's always kind of like up doing something. Qing Bao is the polar opposite. She can be almost always found in a tree or sleeping on her 
 
 climbing structure.
 
CULVER:  The panda pair will fill a void at the Smithsonian's National Zoo in Washington, D.C. For the past 11 months, the panda exhibit has sat 
 
 empty. Now, as part of the terms of the Smithsonian's exchange program with China, late last year, the zoo's three pandas were sent back here to 
 
 Chengdu.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I don't think people realize how attached you get.
 
CULVER:  When you're here, I mean, in this setting, what stood out to you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Here are the sheer number of pandas.
 
CULVER:  It's crazy, right?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes, it is crazy.
 
CULVER:  You turn here and you're like, oh, wait, you can go there. You can go there. Nowhere else do we have something like this.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Nowhere else. And the scenery is obviously beautiful and the commitment.
 
CULVER:  Pandas were on the brink of extinction, but in recent years they've moved from endangered to vulnerable. But there's still more work to 
 
 go. The Panda Exchange, also called Panda Diplomacy, dates back more than 50 years now, when China gifted two pandas to the U.S. following President 
 
 Nixon's historic visit.
 
Today, they're given on loan. And they are a strategic, diplomatic tool, serving as ambassadors of hope and spreading global goodwill. Somehow, 
 
 pandas were able to unite nations. Something we could use about right now.
 
David Culver, CNN, Chengdu, China.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, we certainly could. Now, rap mogul Sean Diddy Combs is facing at least six new lawsuits accusing him of sexual assault against 
 
 men, women, and a 16-year-old boy. The suits were all filed anonymously by John and Jane Doe plaintiffs in New York Federal Court. They include 
 
 various allegations of rape, sexual assault, and the spiking of drinks at parties he hosted.
 
Elizabeth Wagmeister is standing by for us now. Elizabeth, what more do we know about these claims?
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, these are six new lawsuits all filed today. You may recall a few weeks ago that a Houston 
 
 based attorney named Tony Buzbee, he said that he was representing 120 new accusers of Sean Combs. He said that he intended to file lawsuits on behalf 
 
 of all 120 accusers. This is the first six that he has filed.
 
So, you know, he is now delivering on that promise when he told us that he was going to be filing these lawsuits. Now, this all come from anonymous 
 
 plaintiffs, both men and women. There are four John Does, meaning male accusers, and two Jane Does. These allegations, allegedly, you know, 
 
 occurred over the course of decades, one of them coming from a 16-year-old male who says that in 1998 that he was at one of Combs' infamous white 
 
 parties in the Hamptons in New York, and that is where he alleges that he was sexually assaulted.
 
He said that he was excited to meet Sean Combs. He was excited to even be at that white party and that he was shocked. He even got the chance to talk 
 
 to him. In his lawsuit, this John Doe, who again claims that he was 16- year-old at the time, he said that he was talking to combs about his career and that is when this alleged sexual assault occurred.
 
Now, another one of these lawsuits coming from a then 19-year-old college age female She says that she had met Combs, that she was going to an after 
 
 party for an event and that is where she alleges that she was raped. The details are very graphic, Julia, in all of these six lawsuits.
 
I do want to note that I have reached out to representatives for Combs, I have not heard back from them yet, but they have denied all wrongdoing from 
 
 all of these civil suits over the course of nearly a year. You'll remember that it was back in November of 2023 that his ex-wife girlfriend, Cassie, 
 
 came forward with the first lawsuit, and that is what started this domino effect.
 
And of course, he is incarcerated right now. He is awaiting his criminal trial. He has denied all criminal charges. He is facing three charges, and 
 
 his trial has been set for next May.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and we'll certainly continue to track this story for us. Elizabeth, good to have you with us. Thank you, Elizabeth Wagmeister there.
 
All right. Stay with CNN, plenty more to come.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And a good morning if you're waking up with us in today's Money Move. October optimism helping push Wall 
 
 Street stocks to record territory. It was actually chip stocks were the outperformers Monday in a week packed with earnings and economic data.
 
The S&amp;P 500 closing at a record high. The Dow above 43,000 for the first time ever. NVIDIA also hitting fresh records with a market cap of nearly 
 
 $3.4 trillion. That is huge. And European investors are also on earnings watch and foreign interest rate decision too by the European Central Bank 
 
 on Thursday. They're expected to cut rates after recent data highlighted headwinds in the Eurozone economy. We'll call it growth pressures.
 
But the global focus was on China, where Beijing announced new stimulus measures over the weekend, including more support for the embattled 
 
 property market. The finance minister promising to significantly increase debt to revive economic activity. So, cash spending. Though consumers and 
 
 investors, I think, were left with more questions than answers on both the scale and the timing of that impending spending spree.
 
Now, in the meantime, drivers start your engines. The Paris Motor Show is back for its 90th edition, leading automotive brands, putting their latest 
 
 innovations on display. But this year's event taking place amidst a crisis for some European car makers, at least. Anna Stewart has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Driverless cars, monster trucks, and electric vehicles.
 
This year's Paris Auto Show promises to be a return to former glory. Fresh from launching its new robotaxi, Tesla returns for the first time in six 
 
 years.
 
But the main focus will be competition between China and Europe.
 
STEFAN BRATZEL, DIRECTOR, CENTER OF AUTOMOTIVE MANAGEMENT:  Now, a few Chinese manufacturers in this motor show. And so, I'm quite interested what 
 
 their innovations are.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  Europe's car industry is in crisis. Stellantis, BMW, Mercedes, and Volkswagen, all recently issued profit warnings.
 
CARLOS TAVARES, CEO, STELLANTIS:  We are going to be challenged, and I would say brutally challenged, by the Chinese offensive on the European 
 
 market.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  The European Union says China is flooding the market with low-cost electric vehicles. They recently voted to impose tariffs up 
 
 to 45 percent on EV's made in China.
 
BRATZEL:  I think it's not a really good idea because, of course, we will have a kind of a chain reaction on the very important Chinese market.
 
STEWART (voice-over): China has already hit back, targeting French brandy and threatening tariffs on imports or pork products and large-engine 
 
 vehicles.
 
OLA KALLENIUS, MERCEDES CEO:  Yes. This is a very tough market environment.
 
OLIVER ZIPSE, BMW CEO:  Growing regulation to protectionist measures.
 
OLIVER BLUME, VOLKSWAGEN GROUP CEO:  Our environment is challenging.
 
STEWART (voice-over): For Volkswagen, that could mean closing factories in Germany for the first time in the company's history.
 
BRATZEL:  We in Germany won't be cheaper, but we have to be as much more innovative as we are more expensive.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  This week in Paris, it's all glitz and glamour for Europe's carmakers. But under the bonnet, the struggles may be just 
 
 beginning.
 
Anna Stewart, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And as always on "First Move," we're on weather watch. Temperatures set to plummet across the Eastern United States along with the 
 
 foliage and beautiful autumnal colors of fall. Wow. Look at that. A bitter cold sadly descending. Meanwhile, concerns are growing too of another 
 
 potential storm brewing in the Atlantic.
 
Chad Myers joins us now. We've got, what, around six weeks of storm season left. Chad, what are we expecting?
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Well, we still could see enough of warm water in the areas that could develop a storm for sure. There still could 
 
 be a tropical cyclone, tropical storm, hurricane still in the water here.
 
What I did not see in the Paris car show was snow plows. Now, they get lots of snow in Europe, wouldn't you think? And they're already seeing snow in 
 
 New York State, Upstate New York, seeing the snow today. Still snowing just south there of Montreal. So, this is the coolest weather of the year so 
 
 far, for sure.
 
And a lot of times, Julia, when this cold front gets all the way down into the Gulf of Mexico down here, then all of a sudden that's where the 
 
 hurricanes go, kind of following it along. The high pressure pushing them into the Central American area rather than the pushing them or pulling them 
 
 out up into Florida or the East Coast.
 
Not a lot of snow, one to two inches. I mean, less than 10 millimeters in most spots, but it will be very cold. Temperatures well below freezing, 
 
 almost 30 million under freeze warnings, which means if you still have tomatoes in your garden in Upstate New York, all the way through the Upper 
 
 Midwest, you need to get them out of there because temperatures will be plummeting here over the next couple of days, even the highs in Atlanta, 
 
 only in the 60s, on up Chicago, you'll be 51 degrees tomorrow.
 
Just to give you an idea of where we were, 84 down to 63 and the morning low is somewhere around 40. So, yes, cold air here, but still warm air, 
 
 warm water to the south, watching two little areas, one way out in the Atlantic, but they are still seeing, we could see some development here, 
 
 and then one that will likely move toward Belize, maybe toward Honduras and Guatemala, it could make some flooding rainfall. Only a 20 percent, a one 
 
 in five chance of it actually developing from here on out. So, likely moves on shore before that happens.
 
This one, though, has a lot of warm water still to see. We'll have to see where that goes. Julia?
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, we'll continue to watch it, but fall flew. We've gone straight to winter. It's like a Monopoly board. We missed it. Blinky, you 
 
 missed it.
 
MYERS:  Go straight to gold. Do not pass gold.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Straight to snow, though. We love snow. So, we don't mind that. Chad, thank you.
 
MYERS:  You're welcome.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. Coming up for us, 22 days to go and no clear leader. We can't escape it. The presidential race latest next on "First 
 
 Move."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. Authorities in North Carolina have 
 
 arrested a man they say threatened to harm FEMA workers weeks after Hurricane Helene devastated parts of the state. The man was allegedly 
 
 discovered outside a storm relief site armed with a handgun and a rifle. Threats against relief workers have escalated as disinformation spreads 
 
 about the Biden administration's handling of the storm's aftermath.
 
In Hong Kong, authorities are investigating why eight monkeys were found dead in a zoo on Sunday. You're looking at De Brazza monkey, one of the 
 
 types of monkeys that were discovered. The Hong Kong Zoological and Botanical Gardens has closed its mammal sections as tests are carried out.
 
North Koreans are being sent to help Russian troops in Ukraine, according to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. He claims that ties between Moscow and 
 
 Pyongyang have grown beyond the exchange of weaponry. A Ukrainian intelligence source says some North Koreans have been helping with the use 
 
 of their ammunition. The Kremlin calls Zelenskyy's claim a hoax.
 
And 22 days until Election Day in the United States, and no clear leader in CNN's latest poll of polls. Presidential hopefuls are stepping up their 
 
 efforts to reach undecided voters. Democrat Kamala Harris will sit down for her first ever interview with the Fox News network on Wednesday, taking her 
 
 message to a conservative audience that's unlikely to be open, perhaps to what she has to say. The interview will air just hours after a Fox town 
 
 hall where Republican Donald Trump meets with an all-female audience in the battleground State of Georgia.
 
Joining us now to talk about is pollster and communication strategist, Frank Luntz. Great to have you on the show, Frank, as always. It makes 
 
 sense, I guess, with 19 Electoral College votes up for grabs that both candidates today are in Pennsylvania. Just describe this moment with things 
 
 so close, particularly in the battleground states.
 
FRANK LUNTZ, POLLSTER AND COMMUNICATIONS STRATEGIST:  Well, no one expected it this way. Donald Trump's debate performance was pretty poor. And the 
 
 assumption was that people would abandon him after that, as they had abandoned Joe Biden in his debate debacle, but that has not happened. And I 
 
 still believe that based on the polling and the focus groups, that Harris has the most narrow of leads nationwide. And that the swing states are 
 
 completely up for grabs right now, those seven key states.
 
So, I've begun to look at this as quite similar to 2016, when Donald Trump surprised viewers -- surprised voters, and beat Hillary Clinton, because 
 
 even though he lost the popular vote by almost 3 million people, he still won the Electoral College. And that's what we're looking at in 2024.
 
And one more point, you see all these candidates now doing interviews in places that they never spoke to before. Trump reaching out to women, his 
 
 weakest group. Harris talking to Fox News viewers. The issue right now is there are so few voters up for grabs that you have to start to wonder why 
 
 then they did not do this earlier.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I want to come back to that point because I think what you just said about 2016 is interesting, because I was going to ask you whether 
 
 this is, in some way, a loss of momentum for Kamala Harris or whether it's Trump and the rhetoric and the approach that he's making in these final 
 
 weeks, perhaps giving him more ground than anticipated. It could be a combination of the two.
 
But I think if we go back to 2016 and the surprise of the Hillary Clinton loss versus the Trump win, is that the same degree of complacency for the 
 
 Democrats in particular at this moment, or do they recognize perhaps the danger? And that's why you see the outreach to the undecideds and to those 
 
 that might not vote at all.
 
LUNTZ:  Well, they do recognize the danger. I've been hearing it for the last 72 hours, and they do recognize that Donald Trump has surprising 
 
 support. There are three groups that you should be watching. Union members, the rank and file are supporting Trump, and the non-teacher, non-
 
 governmental unions in numbers that Republicans have never seen before. If you work with your hands, you are likely to be a Trump supporter in 
 
 organized labor, and that's driving the union leadership crazy.
 
The second group of Latinos, and this is particularly important in states like Arizona and Nevada. And even though Trump's rhetoric on immigration is 
 
 so tough, and so in your face, it is actually what people want to hear. And I don't think that the Biden-Harris administration understood just how 
 
 upset people were with the border and just how much they prioritize immigration, public safety, and getting tough on the people in this country 
 
 legally.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
And third, for Harris, she's winning an untold number of young women who are energized and excited over this campaign, and cannot wait to vote for 
 
 someone who they relate to, someone they identify with. So, she's got her voters, Trump has his voters. And in the end, who actually turns them out, 
 
 I don't care what the polls say, I care who goes out and votes. And what we're seeing in the early vote is the first time I've said this, what we're 
 
 seeing in the early vote is a lower turnout rate that we had in 2020. And that's very important for the Harris campaign, because she depends on early 
 
 votes, even more than the Trump campaign does.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. I mean, there was so much information in there. I mean, I think one of the dangers, perhaps that you're pointing out is sort of 
 
 disregarding some of the comments that Trump makes is perhaps racist or lies or derogatory on one side and what you're saying is actually some of 
 
 this resonates and it resonates in groups that you might not expect it to either.
 
The New York Times poll that we got over the weekend had Harris leading Trump 56 percent to 37 percent among Latino voters. And I think the message 
 
 is look, she's winning the black vote. She's winning the Latino vote. It's just at a lower percentage than we've seen in previous elections for 
 
 Democrats. And that's sort of where the alarm comes.
 
In terms of the black men in particular, again, she's making an outreach today. We've got a rally that she's going to do later on today. You did a 
 
 focus group for young men, men under 40. And one of the things that stood out to me just watching the interactions and your questions with them was 
 
 the message that it's not about Republicans and it's not about Democrats, it's just that the message that Trump has resonates with them. Just talk 
 
 about that.
 
LUNTZ:  Exactly. And the message that Harris is giving, that they're victims. It's not a message that they particularly appreciate. They want 
 
 opportunity. They want the same things that other populations have had, and they don't want a handout, and they don't want to pat on the top of the 
 
 head. And their belief that Trump has been through what they've been through. The challenges, the labeling. It's really significant.
 
And for the first time I started to understand, and this is why 30 percent of young African American men are still, at this point, backing Donald 
 
 Trump, even though Barack Obama told them to switch. And in fact, what I have found in the last couple of days is that there's been a hostility to 
 
 the pandering of the Harris campaign. Just tell it straight, be authentic. And that's not what they see from Harris. That is what they see from Trump. 
 
 And frankly, they believe that he's going to make their lives better. And they do not have the same faith in Kamala Harris.
 
So, we're seeing this 23 days, 22 days before the election. And for voters that really care about what's coming up, which is almost every viewer in 
 
 this show, they need to understand that unless you're authentic, unless you are candid, you say what you mean, mean what you say, and you're clear that 
 
 you're going to do what you say, you're not going to win these last undecided voters, and some of your own people won't turn out. This is the 
 
 challenge that is facing the Harris campaign right now.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Authenticity matters more than being factually correct or accurate, perhaps. And we were just showing a split screen there of the 
 
 future -- both candidates, obviously campaigning in Pennsylvania.
 
Frank, I have about 30 seconds left. What do each have to do then over the next three weeks to win this, whether it's a state like Pennsylvania or 
 
 beyond? Speak more, speak less?
 
LUNTZ:  Trump should be speaking not at all. Donald Trump has the advantage on the issues. He should simply go away to the Cayman Islands and not come 
 
 back to the day after the election. And Harris needs to do exactly what she's doing, though my challenge is, it may be too little and too late, 
 
 appear on every business show, every economic show you possibly can get on, because those are the people who are undecided. Business wise, economically 
 
 pro-Republican, but they don't like Donald Trump, those are the people she should be reaching out to not the typical Fox News viewer.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. And when you get asked if you change anything about the four years, past four years have an answer, I think would be my advice. 
 
 Open invitation to the show. Frank, great to have you on. Yes, Frank Luntz, it's great to chat to you, sir, as always. Thank you.
 
All right. Coming up after the break, time to energize. Who better than to demonstrate a holographic communications platform than the man who played 
 
 Captain Kirk. We'll beam it back after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And of course, you're watching a two dimensional me. That's probably enough for you. But you -- my next 
 
 guest is able to create the illusion of a whole person standing next to you, even if they're on the other side of the Earth.
 
Using a frame the size of a phone booth at one end and the person in front of a camera at the other, some tech trickery add shadows and the illusion 
 
 of depth to the image. It's been used to bring sports fans closer to their idols, such as U.S. football star Chad Johnson. It's also beaming 
 
 politicians into exhibitions. Here's German Chancellor Olaf Scholz at a Siemens event. And who better to magically appear at a tech conference in 
 
 Orlando than "Star Trek" supremo William Shatner, who was live from Los Angeles.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIAM SHATNER, ACTOR:  Think about how many things start on "Star Trek" seemed like the far future and now, it's today's reality.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And David Nussbaum is the CEO of Proto, and he joins us now. Unfortunately, it's a regular video connection, but I do know he's hoping 
 
 to demonstrate the system. I can see it behind you. I've got two Davids. Two for the price of one here. David, welcome.
 
DAVID NUSSBAUM, CEO, PROTO INC.:  Two Davids for the price. Julia, thank you so much for having me here. This is wonderful. Yes, Proto's beaming 
 
 people places.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Explain how the box itself works, and I'm assuming I'm looking at a pre-recorded there, or can you do this live as well?
 
NUSSBAUM:  Oh, yes. So, what you're seeing, obviously, this is pre-recorded because I'm sitting here in front of you. But I could beam anybody 
 
 anywhere, anytime. And you only need any 4K camera, you could even use your iPhone. So, you could be having a bit of a zoom on your side. But on the 
 
 receiving side, where our holographic technology displays are, it looks like you're there. So, the feeling of true presence exists. Creating a very 
 
 immersive, interactive, and engaging conversation.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Let's talk about how it's being used as well, because we've given a few examples of individuals beaming into places when clearly, 
 
 they're not there, they're on the other side of the world or doing something else. But actually, what was quite fascinating to me was how it's 
 
 being used in the medical sphere, for example, for medical appointments where it's difficult to physically get to the doctor. But there's other 
 
 applications. Education is another great example.
 
NUSSBAUM:  Totally. Yes. I mean, education and healthcare for me are the top two. You know, I've got children and I've got aging parents and I 
 
 thought, you know, there's no better way to connect people from any age, whether you're eight or 80, other than Proto.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
With healthcare, for example, doctors with -- let's talk about, you know, West Cancer Center, for example, in Tennessee, we're beaming doctors from 
 
 the city into the rural areas in places where patients need that medical face-to-face conversation and connection with their doctors. We're doing 
 
 this in India and we're doing this in some of the most remote locations where doctors and patients could beam into each other's offices or into 
 
 their homes. It's absolutely wild stuff.
 
And with education, we're in about 50 universities right now, MIT and Oxford and Loughborough University and University of Texas, San Antonio, 
 
 some of the greatest minds from around the world are beaming onto stages in front of students for the most impressive, important, and engaging guest 
 
 lecturing situations that you can't even imagine otherwise.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, you're working with some enormous companies, Amazon, Verizon, Siemens, Accenture, Walmart, PwC, Christie's, SoftBank, just to 
 
 name a few. I guess the obvious one would be, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, but the price of this around $65,000, top end.
 
NUSSBAUM:  Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  There will be people looking at this and going, hang on a second, why do I need this if I can just zoom a doctor or I can use 
 
 FaceTime to talk to my family? What about this is resonating or more engaging or providing a connection beyond communication that justifies the 
 
 cost.
 
NUSSBAUM:  Sure. Well, breaking news, they're no longer $65,000. That was an old display. We are now sub $30,000. We've cut our price down by 65 
 
 percent. And now, a lot of our customers are just putting down about $2,500 a month and they're getting several displays at a time.
 
CHATTERLEY:  So, they're renting them?
 
NUSSBAUM:  The technology isn't just -- they're renting them, they're leasing them, they're buying them. And we're in about a thousand locations. 
 
 So, now, you could be, Julia, instead of doing this like, on TV, instead of looking into a TV camera and seeing your face on a screen, I can broadcast 
 
 you onto stages, to guest lectures, keynotes. I mean, just think about the possibilities. Where do you want to be that you can't physically be?
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I was just imagine doing this. The problem is this shows live. So, I can't actually be on a beach while doing the show. But your 
 
 point is correct.
 
NUSSBAUM:  We're working on that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I can be -- are you?
 
NUSSBAUM:  Sure.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I like that -- 
 
NUSSBAUM:  You know, there -- we do because we have -- we do have an artificial intelligence tool that will soon allow a person to be on a beach 
 
 or in their office or in their home, maybe they're sick in bed and their A.I. avatar can then be puppeteered so that you could say anything and also 
 
 be translated into any language.
 
So, if you can imagine what the future of communication looks like, you could be anywhere, speak any language to anybody, no matter what time of 
 
 day or where in the world you have to be.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, we're talking. How long, very quickly, until we have that kind of technology?
 
NUSSBAUM:  Yes. I mean, this is just months away. So, we've done so much over the past few years. And so, this is -- you know, we've got a five-year 
 
 roadmap of lots of cool sci-fi Captain Kirk stuff that we want to do. This is going to be one of the first new things we do.
 
And I mean, wow. It's like, I've always thought to myself, I wish I could be in more than one place at a time. And then with Proto, now you can.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, you can be.
 
NUSSBAUM:  And it looks like you, and it feels like you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And you also must be wildly profitable if you can cut the price from $65,000 and halve it and still be running a good business.
 
NUSSBAUM:  We're doing a great -- we're having a very good business. But you know, as you can probably imagine when you cut the price down, you can 
 
 sell a lot more of them. And so, for me, it was more important to have happy customers in a lot of different places than, you know, only customers 
 
 who can afford expensive technology.
 
I thought this shouldn't have to be for billionaires, eccentric millionaires, and celebrities. This should be for grandma, this should be 
 
 for Lucy and Francis to beam into each other's homes. This -- holograms, especially Proto hologram will unite generations, you shouldn't have to 
 
 have a boatload of money in order to do it.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. And you're doing much smaller versions too. How big is this market, David, by the way, whether you're leasing it or you're buying 
 
 a small one, how big could this be?
 
NUSSBAUM:  Yes. Hundreds of billions of dollars a year. I mean, think about just walk into a mall, walk into any, you know, department store, look at 
 
 all those flat 2D screens that have unemotional and very not interesting information, directories, information booths. Swap those out with a little 
 
 bit of depth, add some character and some holographic flair to it and all of a sudden, your information becomes important, exciting.
 
And we've seen the dwell times -- the amount of times somebody stands in front of our devices instead of that of a flat 2D screen, it's skyrocketed. 
 
 So, there's a lot of business to be made.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, you need to be talking to all the big fashion houses. LVMH as well. Imagine their windows of people displaying their wares and 
 
 moving around and being far more engaging. That might be a good one too. David, great to talk to you.
 
NUSSBAUM:  Exactly.
 
CHATTERLEY:  We'll stay in touch. Great to have you in the show.
 
NUSSBAUM:  Thank you for having me. Next time, I'll beam in as a hologram.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Done. I'm hoping we'll be beaming me in there from the beach at that point as well.
 
NUSSBAUM:  Come here. That's fine.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Done. Thank you, sir. Bye. We're back after this. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And another beam me up. This is a trip deep into our solar system this time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Three, two, one. Ignition. And lift off.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  The Europa Clipper launching hours ago from Florida on a mission to a moon. No, it's not our moon. It's one of Jupiter's in fact. 
 
 It's headed for Europa and it's expected to get there in July of 2031. So, we've got a bit of a wait to see if there's life beneath the planet's icy 
 
 shell. As Michael Holmes explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over):  A vast ocean in a moon hundreds of millions of miles away. That's what NASA's new and largest planetary 
 
 spacecraft is set to explore next month.
 
Scientists believe that Europa, one of Jupiter's many moons, is one of the most promising places to look for life beyond Earth. The moon, about the 
 
 same size as our own, is thought to have beneath its icy surface an ocean of water, perhaps encompassing the entire moon.
 
LAURIE LESHIN, DIRECTOR OF NASA's JET PROPULSION LABORATORY:  We scientists have been dreaming about a mission like Europa Clipper for more than 20 
 
 years. We've been working to build it for 10 years. It's going to be another 10 years because Jupiter is so far away until we have all the 
 
 science in the bag.
 
HOLMES (voice-over):  The mission is not looking for life on the moon, but rather an environment in which life could survive. The Europa Clipper will 
 
 gather information on the thickness of that icy shell, investigate the possible ocean beneath it, and study the geology of the surface.
 
So, how does an icy moon far away from the sun have the energy to sustain life? Well, Jupiter's strong gravity creates tides that stretch and tug the 
 
 moon, producing heat.
 
GINA DIBRACCIO, ACTING DIRECTOR OF NASA'S PLANETARY SCIENCE DIVISION:  Clipper is going to tell us if Europa has all of these ingredients for 
 
 life. So, what we learn with Clipper and the habitability of Europa, this is going to pave the way for the future, for future missions to Europa and 
 
 elsewhere in our solar system, where we can search more directly for life.
 
HOLMES (voice-over):  This big venture from NASA requires very big equipment. The Europa Clipper is about 16 feet or nearly five meters tall 
 
 and more than a hundred feet or about 30 meters wide. That's about the length of a basketball court. The scale of the Clipper is primarily due to 
 
 its massive solar arrays. Another big feat for this spacecraft is a poem.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
ADA LIMON, U.S. POET LAUREATE:  Still, there are mysteries below our sky.
 
HOLMES (voice-over):  U.S. poet laureate Ada Limon wrote an original poem dedicated to NASA's Europa Clipper mission. The poem will be engraved on 
 
 the spacecraft as a way to connect the two worlds, Earth and Europa.
 
LIMON:  We point to the planets we know. We pin quick wishes on stars. From Earth, we read the sky as if it is an unerring book of the universe, expert 
 
 and evident.
 
HOLMES (voice-over):  Michael Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's been an extraordinary couple of days for SpaceX. Not only did it launch the NASA's mission to Europa, it also managed to catch the 
 
 booster of its super heavy rocket during a test flight on Sunday.
 
Now, you can see its descent onto this landing pad where it's caught by a pair of giant mechanical arms or chopsticks. Recapturing the super heavy 
 
 rocket is key for its development and its potential use for missions to the moon or Mars. Reusable rockets. That's the key.
 
And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END