Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Rep. Mike Lawler (R-NY) is Interviewed about Netanyahu and the Hostage Situation; Starliner to Return to Earth. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired September 05, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00]
 
EMANUEL JONES (D), GEORGIA STATE SENATOR: Gain access to them in any way. There's too much technology out there for us not to take advantage of what's available.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Now, I do understand that the Georgia House passed a bill, a bipartisan bill, that would have offered tax credits to gun owners who have secure storage devices, but it failed in the Senate. Is that right?
 
JONES: It did, and it only failed by one vote, and I certainly expect that legislation to come up again this upcoming session. And that is just kind of one aspect of this argument, and tax credits is key to the state being able to drive the momentum toward people using safe storage devices.
 
But the state can't do it all. I think businesses should join with us as well, and I'm certainly going to call on them to do that in my study committee.
 
BERMAN: What about families?
 
JONES: Oh, well, families is key, and part of a child having access to weapons, if you look at some of this data out there from every town and other institutions that study this, you will see that those states that have civil liabilities and even criminal liabilities for the parents and other caretakers of these children, that the rate of these kind of incidents drops significantly.
 
BERMAN: Georgia State Senator Emanuel Jones, the irony, your committee was due to meet today anyway to discuss these issues about safe firearm storage. The need is even more pressing now.
 
Thank you very much for being with us. I appreciate it.
 
Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right, thank you, John.
 
Four lives cut short. This morning, the community of Winder, Georgia, is mourning the deaths of two students and two teachers who were shot by a teenage gunman the Apalachee High School. Fourteen-year-old Mason Schermerhorn. Family and friends told "The New
 
 York Times" that Mason enjoyed reading. He liked telling jokes, playing video games, and he was looking forward to an upcoming family trip to Disney World before he was shot dead in his classroom. 
 
Fourteen-year-old Christian Angulo's older sister tells local media her brother was really sweet and caring. And one of his friends who happened to miss school yesterday was absolutely devastated when he found out that his friend had been killed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CATHERINE MALDONADO, STUDENT AT APALACHEE HIGH SCHOOL: When I found out, I started crying. And I just got mad because I was like, why would you just shoot innocent people that you even now? 
 
And he's actually like a sweet person. You know, like class clown. He was one of those. And he was funny. 
 
I don't believe it. Like, I don't believe that it's true that he's dead.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: And there is a GoFundMe in his name. 
 
You also have two teachers.
 
Christina Irimie was one of the two adults killed. She was a 53-year- old math teacher at Apalachee High School, trying to teach students how to live their lives and do math, and here she is no longer with us.
 
Thirty-nine-year-old Richard Aspinwall also taught math and he was an assistant football coach.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL GORDON, STUDENT AT APALACHEE HIGH SCHOOL: I knew that coach. He was a good guy. 
 
I had him - I'm in tenth grade, so I had him for a whole year. He was - and he saw me a lot.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: Richard's colleagues describe him as a well-respected man, a great husband, and a father. One friend calling him, quote, "one hell of a guy."
 
There is much more ahead on CNN NEWS CENTRAL. We will be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:38:06] SIDNER: Both Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump pitching their agendas to voters this week ahead of their debate. Poll showing the economy remains at the top of many American's list. 
 
Harris taking the stage yesterday to promote what she says she will do for an opportunity economy, as she's calling it. Trump, though, has a very different message.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: My vision of an opportunity economy is one where everyone can compete and have a real chance to succeed. Where everyone, regardless of who they are, or where they start, can build wealth, including intergenerational wealth. Where workers are treated with dignity
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If you let the Trump tax cuts expire, which she wants to do. She wants to terminate them. If you do that, you will suffer the biggest tax increase in history. 
 
This country will end up in a depression if she becomes president, like 1929. This will be a 1929 depression.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: All right, joining me now, Republican congressman of New York, Mike Lawler.
 
Congressman, we will get to the 2024 race. But first, I do want to talk about where you are. You're at the Republican Jewish Coalition Conference. Prime minister - we just heard from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He made comments on Fox News. And he says, unequivocally, that there is not a deal in the making. That is what he has just come out and said. So many people waiting for that ceasefire deal. So many people in harm's way. We know that six hostages were murdered by Hamas this week, and there are tens of thousands of Palestinian innocents who have been killed during this war.
 
What would you do if you were in the position of this administration to try to push something forward when you hear these comments from Benjamin Netanyahu?
 
REP. MIKE LAWLER (R-NY): Well, frankly, Sara, the administration has failed. 
 <br>[09:40:01]
 
Hamas is a terrorist organization. They are responsible for not only what happened on October 7th, but (INAUDIBLE) no civilized society executes hostages in the way that they did the other day, giving the order to execute Americans and innocent Israeli citizens. It's absolutely outrageous. At the end of the day, the terms of a ceasefire are very simple, Hamas
 
 must surrender and release the hostages. Their refusal to do so, and it's clear it is Hamas that is refusing to enter the terms of a (INAUDIBLE). And they have violated eight ceasefires over the last 16 years. For - so, for this administration, for President Biden, Kamala Harris, to try and point the finger at Israel, it's shameful.
 
And this is the same administration that not only withhold - withheld weapons from Israel, but told Israel not to go into Rafah. That's where these hostages are being held. The fact is the American government should be taking the lead to make sure that American hostages are being released. We're dealing with Qatar, we're dealing with Egypt. We should make it very clear that American hostages must be released immediately. And the fact that this administration, it continues to try to scapegoat it in this conflict is just wrong. 
 
SIDNER: But what do you want the Americans to do, I mean, at this point, send in troops? Because there are protests in Israel where people are railing against Netanyahu, saying, yes, they recognize that Hamas is part of the problem, but then they also blame Netanyahu as well. Do you?
 
LAWLER: Well, look, Sara, the Israeli people have every right to protest however they want against their own government. But as far as I'm concerned, Hamas is the - the problem here. Hamas is the one that perpetrated the terrorist attack. Hamas is funded by Iran. The Biden administration lifted sanctions on Iran. It's why Iranian petroleum sales have increased $100 billion since Joe Biden and Kamala Harris took office. Those are the funds that are being used to fund Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis, and other terrorist networks in the region. 
 
The United States not only needs to start implementing the Ship (ph) Act and the Iran China Energy Sanctions Act, my two pieces of legislation that were included in the supplemental aid package that this administration has thus far refused to actually implement. They need to cut off the source of funding for Hamas, and they need to hold Iran accountable. 
 
But more than that, we have to make it clear, there are still four living American hostages being held by Hamas, and three deceased hostages being held by Hamas. They have to be released immediately. And President Biden, and Vice President Harris, should be making that abundantly clear to Qatar, to Egypt, through these negotiations with Hamas, separate and apart from the situation with respect to Israel. The Americans should be released. And the fact that when those first hostage negotiations occurred, and you had hostages released, the fact that these Americans were not part of it is shameful.
 
SIDNER: All right, do want to move on to some of the politics of the day. We've got five days until this debate that's going to happen between Kamala Harris and former President Trump. And the economy is top of mind for all Americans. Poll after poll shows us that. You know that. We all know it's about the economy. 
 
Donald Trump is promising tariffs on Chinese goods, which is, by the way, where Trump ties and suits have been manufactured. Economists say this will end up being a tax on consumers eventually. What do you think about this economic policy proposal by the Trump team? 
 
LAWLER: Well, first of all, let's focus on where we are today. Prices are sky high for groceries, for energy, for housing. The average cost of a mortgage in my district has gone up over $1,000 a month. That's $12,000 a year under Kamala Harris and Joe Biden. So, we have to right-size our economy. We have to bring down inflation, yes, but with it, prices, which means we have to rein in government spending. Under Kamala Harris and Joe Biden, government spending increased by $5 trillion. That is what gave us the record inflation and the high cost of groceries and goods.
 
So, we have to rein in spending. We need to increase domestic - I'm sorry, we need to -
 
SIDNER: But what do you think about this policy, because the policy - the policy by Trump will be implemented if he is president?
 
LAWLER: Respectfully, we need - respectfully, yes.
 
SIDNER: What do you think about tariffs being one of the things that need to be done according to the Trump camp?
 
LAWLER: Well, let's - let's - let's talk about tariffs. Donald Trump basically broke Iran in his first administration. Why? Because he threatened tariffs on Chinese goods if they purchased Iranian petroleum. So, guess what President Xi did? He didn't purchase Iranian petroleum. So, Iran was broke, OK? And so that's where tariffs can be effective. 
 
But what did Joe Biden do? Joe Biden lifted sanctions on Iran. 
 <br>[09:45:02]
 
Iranian petroleum sales are up over $100 billion because China is purchasing Iranian petroleum. Ninety percent of Iranian oil sales are purchased by China. 
 
So, tariffs, when used, can be effective. Or even the threat of a tariff. 
 
But the issue to me is what Kamala Harris has done as vice president. She presided over the Inflation Reduction Act. She is the one that passed it. The fact is, that has not reduced inflation. It has actually tripled our economy. It has caused groceries to rise. 
 
So, the reality is this, we have to reverse many of the policies that the Biden-Harris administration has put into effect. Kamala Harris is proposing to raise the corporate tax rate from 21 percent to 28 percent. You want to see the fastest way for companies to move manufacturing back oversees? It's to do that. That would be disastrous for the economy. 
 
So, Kamala Harris' plans to -
 
SIDNER: Congressman, she has - she has changed - you know that she's the one running and you know that Biden had offered 36 percent. And so she is breaking with him in a way, right?
 
LAWLER: I'm sorry, you're - you're saying that she's breaking - you're saying that she's breaking with Biden by - by choosing to go (INAUDIBLE) -
 
SIDNER: The - the number shows she's breaking with Biden, not doing 36 percent. She has brought that down.
 
LAWLER: (INAUDIBLE) taxes. Raising taxes. But you think 28 percent is good? Twenty-eight percent tax - corporate tax rate will cripple our -
 
SIDNER: A lot of Americans pay 28 percent.
 
LAWLER: It will cripple our economy. Our economy right now, our corporate tax rate is at 21 percent. Tax revenue at - is at an all- time high. Why? Because many corporations have brought business back from overseas, including from China, to the United States. What we have to focus on is ensuring that, you know, enhanced manufacturing is done here in the United States, including prescription drug precursors, including chips and semiconductors. That was something I agreed with the Biden administration on, the Chips Act. But we have to be focused on making sure that American businesses are not going overseas.
 
Kamala Harris' plans would raise taxes on corporations. It would raise taxes on individuals. And she is proposing massively increasing the federal bureaucracy with trillions of dollars in new spending on top of the 5 trillion that she already spent during the first two years of the Biden administration. Kamala Harris' policies will put us into a recession. There's no question about that. 
 
SIDNER: That is disputed by economists who say that Donald Trump's plan with - particularly with the tariffs, could be a huge tax on consumers. But you know what, voters are going to decide.
 
LAWLER: The tariffs - the tariffs are a tool - respectfully, tariffs are a tool to force countries, like China, OK, not to purchase Iranian petroleum. That is something that absolutely should be on the table when Iran is funding terrorism. This is all interconnected, and - and I think you have to be very clear -
 
SIDNER: So, do you dispute every economist who has come out and said that this is going to make it more difficult for people to afford the things that are imported by China and elsewhere? That is what the economists are saying.
 
LAWLER: Every - every - every economist? Please, cite me a few. Please cite me a few. Who's every economist? Here - here's the reality, tax hikes -
 
SIDNER: Literally - literally every economist that is -
 
LAWLER: Literally every economist. Name me one. 
 
Tax hikes on American corporations from -
 
SIDNER: The - the head economist of Moody's has said it.
 
LAWLER: (INAUDIBLE) percent will absolutely crush our economy. And if you think Kamala Harris' plan to increase the corporate tax rate from 21 to 28 percent will help the American economy, you're kidding yourself. Putting sanctions on China, putting sanctions on Iran, putting sanctions on Russia actually will help our economy, because here's the truth, Russia, right now, OK, the invasion into Ukraine, guess what, Europe is purchasing their gas from Russia. You know what Europe is doing? They're funding Ukraine -- Russians invasion into Ukraine. Why aren't they purchasing American gas? Why? Because Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have tried to cripple our energy industry here in the United States. 
 
Kamala Harris can say today that she's against - not for a fracking ban, but she's very clearly not only been on the record for banning fracking, but as attorney general of California went after oil and gas companies and - and tried to cripple their ability to operate in the state of California. 
 
So, let's be clear about all of these policies. Don't just pick and choose one little thing and quote some anonymous economists here to try and say that going -
 
SIDNER: They're not anonymous. Goldman Sachs has weighed in. So has Moody's. They have their - these are people that know how the economy works, generally speaking, Congressman.
 
LAWLER: (INAUDIBLE), it's a problem.
 
SIDNER: I mean, I'm not just making this up. Look at all of the headlines and look at the companies that have come out with their head economists saying the same thing, right?
 
LAWLER: Yes, well, you keep citing this stuff. But respectfully -
 
SIDNER: You asked me to.
 
LAWLER: Increasing the corporate tax rate is going to have a more profound impact on the economy, OK? 
 <br>[09:50:03]
 
Increasing personal income taxes, which is what Kamala Harris is talking about, allowing open borders, which is what she has supported. Supporting Medicare for all. It will cripple the economy. And yet you have no concerns or questions about any of that? That's fascinating.
 
SIDNER: I certainly have questions about that and I did ask you about some of her policies. But ultimately, and you know this as well as I do know, the voters will decide in the end, right?
 
LAWLER: No, you asked me about Donald Trump's - you asked me about Donald Trump's (INAUDIBLE) policies.
 
SIDNER: I asked you about her - her deciding to do a 28 percent tax for those who are - LAWLER: No, I - I brought that up.
 
SIDNER: OK. OK. We're splitting hairs here. But Congressman Mike Lawler, thank you so much for talking to us this morning, and good luck at that conference today. Appreciate it.
 
All right, will the troubled Boeing Starliner spacecraft ever make it back to earth? NASA says it should finally happen tomorrow, but there is a huge caveat because there won't be anyone in there.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:55:29]
 
BERMAN: So, tomorrow, the Boeing Starliner spacecraft that sent two astronauts to the International Space Station for what was supposed to be weeks but has ended up being months is due to come back to earth, or at least try, without the astronauts.
 
With us now is CNN space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher.
 
And, Kristin, I know there have been some questions about whether this thing can even push off without hitting the Space Station. 
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so the concern wasn't just about Butch and Sunni going back on Starliner. This thing, the Boeing Starliner spacecraft, has been attached to the International Space Station for several weeks now. And those thrusters, those malfunctioning thrusters that caused this whole mess are also needed to undock from the Space Station. 
 
So, there was some concern that, you know, perhaps the Boeing Starliner could crash into the Space Station. But NASA official saying yesterday they are confident that will not happen because even if those thrusters do not fire again, and they malfunction again, there are springs on the docking port of the Space Station that can push Starliner a safe distance away. So really NASA feeling quite good about that. 
 
And then, John, the other moment of truth for those thrusters, can they fire and orient the spacecraft properly so that it re-enters the earth's atmosphere at the right direction. That's what everybody's going to be watching late tomorrow night, early Saturday morning, John and Sara.
 
SIDNER: Scientifically, fingers crossed sometimes works.
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
SIDNER: Just saying.
 
BERMAN: Slide rules crossed.
 
Kristin, thank you very much for that. And thank you all for joining us. This has been CNN NEWS CENTRAL with John Berman, Sara Sidner the spirit of Kate Bolduan. "CNN NEWSROOM" up next. SIDNER: She's here. She's with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]