Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Interview With Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI); Tim Walz to Headline Night Three of DNC. Aired 1-1:30p ET

Aired August 21, 2024 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:00:32]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST:  Welcome to CNN's special live coverage of the Democratic National Convention. I'm Brianna Keilar. And my good friend and colleague Boris Sanchez is in Washington. 
 
It is day three here at the convention. And, tonight, the party's vice presidential nominee will give the biggest speech of his political career. Minnesota Governor Tim Walz is looking to introduce himself to the country, as Democrats hope the military veteran, former teacher and football coach can strike a chord with American voters. 
 
Bill Clinton, Nancy Pelosi and Pete Buttigieg will also be at the podium tonight. No doubt tonight's lineup has a tough act to follow after Tuesday's fiery speeches from Barack and Michelle Obama and second gentleman Doug Emhoff's heartfelt pitch for his wife, Vice President Kamala Harris. 
 
Now, there was also that ceremonial roll call/dance party that featured celebrity cameos and this, a surprise performance by none other than Lil Jon. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR:  With me now is CNN national politics correspondent Eva McKend. 
 
I don't think we saw that one coming last night, but we do know that Tim Walz is on tap tonight. What do you know about his speech? 
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Brianna, this is the biggest speech of his political life.
 
And it comes at a time when he has faced ceaseless attacks from Republicans about how he has described his own record. And so we are all watching tonight to see if he tries to use that platform to set the record straight as he sees it. 
 
But I have been out on the campaign trail with him, and he almost skips out onto that stage, skips with joy. So I imagine we're going to get a lot of that joy from him as well. And the campaign is also telling us that he's going to lean into his small-town values, talk about the commitment to safeguarding fundamental freedoms, and then detail how he went from teacher to congressman to governor to now running as Vice President Harris' running mate. KEILAR:  All right, we will be looking forward to that tonight. Eva McKend, thank you for that report. 
 
Democrats have had a surge of momentum with Harris at the top of the ticket. You can feel the enthusiasm here in Chicago. When this arena is full, it is palpable. It has been palpable on television. But this is a tight, tight race. Polling shows Harris and Trump locked in a dead heat.
 
And former first lady Michelle Obama warned Democrats not to be complacent. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHELLE OBAMA, FORMER FIRST LADY:  This election is going to be close. In some states, just a handful, listen to me, a handful of votes in every precinct could decide the winner. 
 
So we need to vote in numbers that erase any doubt. We need to overwhelm any effort to suppress us. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR:  Frank Luntz is a pollster and communication strategist. 
 
Frank, how is it looking, how is this race looking in those few states that she was talking about, these key battleground states? 
 
FRANK LUNTZ, POLLSTER:  There's been a shift over the last four weeks, and that shift is significant. You see it in the polls. You see it in the focus groups.
 
Joe Biden was definitively losing those states by a narrow margin, but she is now definitively even or up in the key states, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin. Those are the states that absolutely matter most. And these last two nights, you actually can -- I have been in the hall. I can see it, the level of intensity, the level of passion. 
 
I don't want to go overboard, because these are the people who care the most about a Democratic victory, but it is palpable. And the difference between the Democratic Convention and the Republican Convention to me is very noticeable. It is louder here. It is more emotional here. 
 
It is -- they sense a chance to succeed, which they were very nervous about just four weeks ago. 
 
KEILAR:  You do talk to other folks who aren't as invested in a Democratic victory, those persuadable voters in focus groups that you do. What are you hearing from your latest focus groups? 
 
LUNTZ:  They want to know more about Harris. They want to know where she stands on the issues, the two issues that matter to them most, affordability. Notice I didn't say inflation. 
 
What is she going to do for food, fuel, housing, health care? And number two is immigration, but it's wider than that. It's crime. It's a sense of public safety. And on these things, they're looking for specifics. 
 <br>[13:05:00]
 
She's had the best launch that I have seen in my career. You have to go back to a time that I don't remember, to Wendell Willkie in 1940, someone who's taken the country by storm. But that's still not enough. And you're correct that it is -- the difference is so minuscule between Trump and Harris. 
 
But that's why these two nights, tonight and tomorrow night, are so important. She's seeking to define herself, not just her personality, not just character traits and attributes, but on the issues that matter most to the voters. 
 
We know where Donald Trump stands. And in case after case, Trump does better on the issues than he does in his persona. Her, she does better in her character traits and her persona than she does on the issues. The next 48 hours will determine how much of a bump she can get and whether or not she leaves the convention with a meaningful advantage over the former president. 
 
KEILAR:  Frank, what are you seeing with the gender gap? 
 
LUNTZ:  Oh, it's significant. 
 
I tell people that there are going to be more divorces in the next two months, three months than any time in any political history,that Donald Trump reminds women of their first husband's divorce lawyer. And that really is significant. 
 
It's not even meant as a joke. But that's still not enough, that women are looking for someone who understands them, someone who speaks for them. They really want their voice to be heard. And that's how Michelle Obama speech, in my mind and the research that we have done, that Michelle hit on all the key points yesterday. 
 
And that may end up being the most important speech of the convention, other than the candidate herself. 
 
KEILAR:  All right, let's hope these couples can work this out. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR:  Frank Luntz, thank you so much for your insights. We appreciate it. 
 
KEILAR:  And joining us now, we have Democratic Congressman Dan Kildee of Michigan. 
 
Thank you so much for being with us. 
 
REP. DAN KILDEE (D-MI):  Thank you. 
 
KEILAR:  Here we are. Later this evening, we will be hearing from Governor Walz. What do you want to hear? 
 
KILDEE:  Well, first of all, I want people to get to know Tim Walz the way I know him. 
 
When I arrived in Congress 12 years ago, Tim was sort of like the neighbor who brings -- comes to your porch and brings you a plate of cookies. He was that friendly face who helped guide me through my first time, my first weeks and months in Congress. 
 
I only say -- that's personal, but what you have seen with him on the stage and what I think we will see tonight is the very same Tim Walz that I got to know as a colleague in the House of Representatives, when he was not a household name. 
 
So what I'm looking to see is him talk about his record, but present himself as this authentic Midwestern guy, a pretty serious contrast to J.D. Vance, who is maybe from the Midwest, but doesn't exemplify any of the values or characteristics of a Midwesterner.
 
KEILAR:  He has faced attacks from Republicans on his military service. To be clear, he has been inexact on a couple of things about carrying a gun, a weapon of war into war -- obviously, he didn't -- on his retired rank.
 
But stolen valor, these things are not. He's been attacked as having abandoned his National Guard unit and not going to Iraq, and it does not appear that that is supported at all by reporting. We have heard from -- I spoke specifically to one of the Guardsmen who served with him for about a decade, who does not like his politics at all, will vote against him, but says that he was as fine a soldier as you will find. 
 
That said, these attacks are incredibly effective. Do you think that Walz needs to address that tonight? 
 
KILDEE:  Well, I think he should address it, but I don't think he needs to make that the centerpiece of his campaign or of his speech. 
 
But what we learned after what John Kerry went through is, you can't let somebody swift boat you and get away with it. So he's going to have to talk about his record, but in a way that I think reminds everybody that he's a truth-teller. He will acknowledge his service. He will acknowledge the service even of J.D. Vance, which I think is a pretty big contrast. 
 
But I will say this. If the Republican ticket wants to have a conversation about service to country, we're thrilled to have that conversation. I mean, think about it. Donald Trump did everything he could to dodge the draft. 
 
Tim Walz put on the uniform of his country and served for a long time, for more than two decades. If they want to enter into this, it may help with their base, but the people I know across Michigan, for example, that are still in that position where they're weighing these two paths forward, they will take Tim Walz, a guy who acknowledges that he served this country. He left that service to run for Congress in order to serve in a
 
 different capacity. We will have the discussion as between him and his record and a guy who's so self-absorbed that, when the opportunity came to serve, he used every trick he could, made every call he could to get out of doing that. 
 <br>[13:10:10]
 
We're happy to have that discussion. 
 
KEILAR:  Latest polling out of these key battleground states, you look at your state of Michigan, very tight race, right? This is within the margin of error. 
 
Seventy days, more than 70 days to go until the election, how confident are you that Harris has a path to victory and what are the hurdles there? 
 
KILDEE:  We have a path. I think the hurdle, if there is one, is to sustain this moment and this momentum. It's a compressed period of time. 
 
There's two sides of that coin. The positive side is, for the next 76 days, if we can move this momentum forward, we will have done a lot. And it's -- that's the question. What are the uncertainties? I feel like the path is there, but we don't know the uncertainties. 
 
If we can leave here and continue this very positive, very uplifting message, the joy and the hope that we exemplified, versus this sort of dark, dystopian, angry message that Donald Trump and J.D. Vance continue to spew, if we can sort of maintain that as the choice, I think we're going to win this election. 
 
KEILAR:  Without some of these uncommitted voters who do appear to be ready to sit out this election, maybe not vote for Donald Trump, but not cast a ballot for Kamala Harris, what do you do? Who takes their place in Michigan? 
 
KILDEE:  Well, actually, I have been talking to some of these folks. I represent a lot of the folks. 
 
KEILAR:  That's right. 
 
KILDEE:  And, in fact, I share some of their views, to be fair. 
 
They're open to Kamala Harris. They want to hear more. 
 
KEILAR:  If she has a plan on Gaza, which she has no plan to put that out.
 
KILDEE:  I don't know that she needs to have a plan, but I think what I know that the folks want to hear is that she sees them, she hears them, and their voices will matter as she formulates policy going forward. 
 
She doesn't have to make a break with Joe Biden, but she is the nominee of our party for president. And she can articulate her own views. And I think there -- even if it's nuanced, I think a different approach would make a difference. 
 
And I know that those folks who are the uncommitted voters in Michigan, not just the Arab and Muslim community, but a lot of younger voters, are open to Kamala Harris. And they know what they get with Donald Trump. So these next few days will make a real difference. 
 
KEILAR:  Congressman Kildee, thank you so much for being with us. We appreciate it. 
 
KILDEE:  Don't forget it's my mom's 90th birthday. 
 
KEILAR:  Oh, that is right. Shout-out to the congressman's mother. Happy 90th birthday. That is a big one. 
 
KILDEE:  Happy birthday, mom. 
 
KEILAR:  Very much so. 
 
All right, coming up this hour on CNN NEWS CENTRAL, much more ahead from the Democratic National Convention, including two megastars scheduled to perform. And which Republicans will be taking the stage?
 
Plus, while Democrats gather in Chicago, the Trump campaign is back on the trail, as polls show Harris gaining ground in a typically red state. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[13:17:27]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
D.J. CASSIDY, DEEJAY:  My name is D.J. Cassidy, and I'd like to welcome you all to the Democratic National Convention roll call. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(SINGING)  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The people of Massachusetts know something about making history. 
 
JASON RAE, SECRETARY, DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION:  Michigan, how do you cast your votes? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR:  All right, that was last night's formal roll call. It's actually kind of a boring part of the convention, usually, but it was anything but.
 
There were celebs. You saw a Lil Jon there, actor Sean Astin of "Rudy" fame all, coming out to support Kamala Harris. 
 
I want to bring in my panel now. Can I do it like this? I'm going to bring in my panel to talk about this...
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR:  ... including CNN's Jamie Gangel, who actually has some news about how it's going to get a little more fun. 
 
What's up? 
 
JAMIE GANGEL, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT:  So, one day, one day only, entertainment correspondent...
 
KEILAR:  One day only. Uh-huh.
 
GANGEL:  ... along with the wonderful CNN true entertainment correspondent, Elizabeth Wagmeister, we can report exclusively w9e now know who the megastar musical performers are going to be tonight. 
 
Get ready. John Legend will be in the house. He will be performing -- and you will understand why in a minute -- a tribute to another legend, Prince...
 
KEILAR:  Oh.
 
GANGEL:  ... from Minnesota in the lead-up to none other than the Minnesota Governor Tim Walz's speech. That is tonight. 
 
Tomorrow night, if that wasn't enough, another megastar, Pink, will be performing. This has been a kept secret. You know, there are a lot of rumors about Beyonce. She is extraordinary. She's known for her high energy. 
 
Those who know something about the performance say she will be bringing down the house tomorrow night in the lead-up to Vice President Kamala Harris. 
 
KEILAR:  Pink likes to dangle from the ceiling. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JAMAL SIMMONS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  She does.
 
KEILAR:  Is that going to happen here? 
 
GANGEL:  There are balloons there. You never know. 
 
KEILAR:  Hmm. Very interesting. 
 
OK, that's -- I mean, Scott, you said the GOP was the party of fun. What did you think about last night? 
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Oh, they -- I mean, the musical. I mean, damn it, the bastards figured something out.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
JENNINGS:  I mean, the musical roll call, I mean, I'm up here. They had Van up here next. He was like Gregory Hines up here going crazy. I put it on X. 
 
I mean, it was cool, right? I mean, the roll call is like normally just kind of the we go through the thing and everybody makes their little weird speech about their state. But the music and then set -- getting Lil Jon out -- Little Jonathan came out.
 <br>[13:20:09]
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
JENNINGS:  And -- but, look, it was neat. 
 
And here's the thing. I love political conventions. I think the people who come to these things are the backbone of our sort of party system and our democracy. So I appreciate what they're trying to do to make it fun. So hats off. Good idea, Democrats. You got one. 
 
SIMMONS:  Something tells me, since Scott's dancing reference was Gregory Hines, you probably don't have a lot of Lil Jon on your playlist. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR:  He loves Little Jonathan. 
 
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Little Jonathan.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR:  All right, so after all that fun, then there were some big speeches. 
 
And I want to listen to this moment from Michelle Obama. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
M. OBAMA:  Kamala has shown her allegiance to this nation, not by spewing anger and bitterness, but by living a life of service and always pushing the doors of opportunity open to others. 
 
She understands that most of us will never be afforded the grace of failing forward. We will never benefit from the affirmative action of generational wealth. We don't get to change the rules so we always win. 
 
If we see a mountain in front of us, we don't expect there to be an escalator waiting to take us to the top. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR:  All right, Jamal, Barack Obama, he came to explain, to inspire. SIMMONS:  Yes.
 
KEILAR:  Michelle Obama came to play. 
 
SIMMONS:  She came to settle the score. 
 
I mean, there are a lot of people right now on the Instagram and TikTok timelines who are wondering if this is what Michelle Obama has been holding on to ever since 2016, 2017, when she really had to play the role of the first lady and be very official. 
 
But this is what she really felt about what -- the Trump family when they came in. I think she spoke for a lot of Democrats who really feel like Donald Trump's held to a different standard. And if any person of color had had the record that he had, they would not be president of the United States or competing to be president of the United States. 
 
So part of this for the vice president, for Kamala Harris is that she's had an exemplary career. She's made every sort of effort, from DA to attorney general to Senate to vice president. There's nothing left on the table for her to do except be president and be a good one, which I think she's ready for. 
 
FARAH GRIFFIN:  Well, you see last night why Michelle Obama lives rent-free in so many Republicans' heads. There's always been these conspiracy theories they were going to replace Biden with her, because Michelle Obama is a once-in-a-generation talent, arguably even a better orator than her own husband. 
 
And I think last night was kind of the response to the, "When they go low, we go high," that she famously said. She went a little lower. They -- she didn't pull punches. Neither did Barack Obama. 
 
And I have heard this a lot from Democrats. While I personally disagree, I think we should just elevate the discourse -- if we all just get in the mud and play with pigs, that will become our politics. But there is something to fighting back. 
 
Donald Trump is a puncher. He doesn't get counterpunched very often. And it feels like Democrats are prepared to punch back. 
 
KEILAR:  That wordsmithing, though, I wonder what you thought about it, Scott, because when I heard that, the affirmative action of generational wealth, it actually gave me a sense of George W. Bush's, the soft bigotry of low expectations. 
 
JENNINGS:  Yes, I -- well, I was sort of pondering the duality of Democrats last night when she said that, because you had Bernie Sanders who closed his speech by decrying the billionaire class. 
 
Then J.B. Pritzker waddled out there. He's worth $3.5 million. And he's like a third-generation super wealthy billionaire. And then she comes out and decries the affirmative action of generational wealth. I guess it's a big tent party, Jamal. You could -- you can have everybody. But I did think it was interesting that some of the biggest applause
 
 came from people who were just hammering, hammering people who were billionaires, wealthy people. And yet, and yet, and yet the governor of this state that we're in right now is exactly the kind of person they were described. 
 
SIMMONS:  Well, just keep in mind, Democrats aren't necessarily against people making money. We're against people not paying taxes when they make money. 
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
JENNINGS:  No, she said generational -- she was talking about people inheriting money. I mean, that's basically...
 
SIMMONS:  Yes. And you know what happens with generational wealth? You have -- you have inheritance taxes that helps leaven the field for people so that you actually can take care of the country, and not have it all sit in one family's pot. 
 
KEILAR:  There was also, Alyssa, a moment that got a lot of attention from Stephanie Grisham, your friend and former colleague, about how Trump speaks about his own supporters, that he had called them basement dwellers in private. 
 
Did you hear that kind of talk when you were in the White House? 
 
FARAH GRIFFIN:  So, not that specific terminology, but I can tell you honestly that he speaks with a certain level of disrespect for the people who've been with him. It is a fact. 
 
There are countless of us who've been around him that it's been sort of this running joke in politics. If he could have had Obama's base, instead of his base, he would have chosen Obama's any day of the week. He -- the way he even refers to them publicly, "I love the uneducated," that's not actually really how you talk about the working men and women of this country who are the backbone of it. 
 
I think that what you're going to hear -- because we're going to hear from Geoff Duncan, you're going to hear from Adam Kinzinger, these sort of Republicans in exile. They're going to lean into the character. They're not going to get into the, like, he threw ketchup and whatever it might be. 
 <br>[13:25:06]
 
It's more, is this a person your kids can look up to? We have seen and heard enough from him. Is this really who you want to represent the country? 
 
KEILAR:  I want to hear your ketchup stories. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR:  But I also want to talk about the Republicans, who are going -- we're going to continue to hear from them, Jamie. GANGEL:  So the convention tonight is going to focus on democracy. And
 
 tonight is going to be January 6 revisited. 
 
We're going to see two videos. And, first, we're going to hear, as Alyssa Farah mentioned, two Republicans are going to speak, Olivia Troye, who was a national security adviser for former Vice President Pence, and former Lieutenant Governor of Georgia Geoff Duncan. 
 
I'm told that the speakers will focus on Trump's election denial, what we have called the big lie. You're going to hear those words tonight, and that Lieutenant Governor Geoff Duncan told me that his speech would -- quote -- "be directed at Republicans who are sick and tired of making excuses for Donald Trump and knowing the difference between right and wrong."
 
Following them, we're going to hear from Mississippi Congressman Bennie Thompson, who was also the chairman of the January 6 Committee. We will see more video, and he will talk about democracy and the rule of law. 
 
KEILAR:  All right, another big night ahead of us. Thank you all. Really appreciate it. 
 
And coming up: not welcome news, as voters worry about the economy. New jobs numbers show the jobs market is not as strong as it's been looking here in earlier reports. We will have details on that ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:30:00]