Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Pete Hegseth Faces Uncertain Path To Confirmation; South Korean President's Chief of Staff And Top Officials Resign; Supreme Court To Hear Arguments On Transgender Rights Today. Aired 5-5:30a ET

Aired December 04, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:34]
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  It's Wednesday, December 4th. 
 
Right now on CNN THIS MORNING:
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. KEVIN CRAMER (R-SD):  Of course, its concerning, but I look forward to visiting with Pete about it.
 
SEN. JOHN KENNEDY (R-LA):  Mr. Hegseth is going to have to address that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  On thin ice. 
 
Donald Trump's pick to run the Pentagon faces resistance inside the Republican Party. 
 
Plus, transgender rights, the Supreme Court ready to hear a challenge to Tennessee's ban on gender affirming care for minors.
 
And -- political chaos. South Korea's embattled leader facing possible impeachment and treason charges if he doesn't step down.
 
(MUSIC)
 
HUNT:  All right, 5:00 a.m. here on the East Coast, a live look at Capitol Hill. Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us. 
 
Donald Trump's pick to run the Defense Department, Pete Hegseth, facing headwinds as some key Republican senators are raising questions about whether it's possible hell have the votes to be confirmed. Since Trump announced his plans to nominate the former Fox News anchor to lead the Pentagon, a number of misconduct allegations have been reported, including significant allegations about his treatment of women and his drinking. 
 
Still, just yesterday, a top Trump adviser told me there was nothing raising alarm bells for the transition team.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON MILLER, TRUMP-VANCE TRANSITION SENIOR ADVISER:  So when it comes to Pete Hegseth, there aren't any concerns and we feel very good about his positioning for being confirmed by the Senate.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  That did not last long because it doesn't still seem to be the case. Assuming all Democrats vote against Hegseth, he'll need to limit his Republican opposition to just three GOP senators? But there are already more than three Republican senators who are appear as though they are on the fence.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC):  Some of these articles are very disturbing. He, you know, obviously has a chance to defend himself here. But, you know, some of this stuff is going to be difficult. You know, time will tell. I like Pete, I've known him for a very, very long time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  CNN is reporting that Trump allies involved in the transition process have been compiling a list of alternative names, including Iowa Senator Joni Ernst and Florida Governor Ron DeSantis. 
 
Joining us now, Washington correspondent for Spectrum News New York 1, Kevin Frey.
 
Kevin, good morning to you. 
 
KEVIN FREY, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT, SPECTRUM NY1:  Good morning. 
 
HUNT:  So my colleague Jake Tapper reporting yesterday that the Trump transition was not pleased, shall we say by some of the things that have been coming up about Pete Hegseth and that they were starting to have significant concerns about this. 
 
Now, we're hearing that this alternative list is being compiled and the reality is -- it's a -- it's a significant day for Pete Hegseth himself, watching for a media appearance today. Later on in the morning, alongside his mother, who, of course, sent that email in 2018 saying that he didn't treat women very well. 
 
You, I know, have been up on the Hill this week. What are you hearing? 
 
FREY:  I mean, look, there's clearly a growing, shall we say concern, or at least lots more questions than there were just a matter of 2 or 3 days ago about the future of his nomination. 
 
When you even have Lindsey Graham in the clip that you just played, who's clearly a Trump ally, clearly someone who's more than willing to speak to truth to power, though with Trump at times, too, suggesting that there are concerns -- that there could be a difficult path ahead. And so, I believe today, he's going to be meeting with Senator Joni
 
 Ernst, which could be really the pivotal swing point here as to whether or not he can get confirmed, just because of her own background in the military and her own background as a sexual assault survivor, not to limit also the fact that she's also done work on preventing sexual harassment in the military. 
 
So combine all those things together, all of these factors, that could be a critical meeting as much as whatever he manages to say on Fox News later today. 
 
HUNT:  Right. I mean, and in many ways, perhaps the Fox News appearance aimed as much at Trump as anyone else but I think right to zero in on that Joni Ernst meeting because, of course, she's also one of the names that's on the list as a potential replacement. She could be confirmed.
 
FREY:  Yeah. Probably pretty easily without worrying about the math of will there be three votes there for her to be able to get through? One could imagine she could sweep the Republicans pretty clean and maybe even pick up a Democrat or two. I'm thinking of maybe -- maybe a Senator Gillibrand, for example, who has worked on with her on sexual harassment, sort of legislation. 
 <br>[05:05:05]
 
HUNT:  Yeah, she has relationships on the other side of the aisle, and has been someone who has been well-respected on the Hill. 
 
The other piece of this Kevin, that, you know, I think when I talk to Republicans who kind of are around the Trump orbit, while on the one hand they -- you know, we see this as Trump making these kind of bold picks that maybe raise eyebrows initially, right. He also, if it turns out that they're going to cause problems for him, he's got a list of other people to turn to, right? 
 
FREY:  Yeah.
 
HUNT:  And is potentially willing to just say okay, sorry, like to make that call like he did to Matt Gaetz. 
 
FREY:  Yeah. I mean, one would be interested to see and I can imagine it would play out this way if the Matt Gaetz model is replicated where ultimately Hegseth is the one that comes out and says, you know what, I'm not going to pursue this. Like we saw with the DEA nominee just within the last 48 hours as well.
 
HUNT:  Right.
 
FREY:  So that Trump doesn't have to take necessarily the blame for to the same extent. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah, for sure. So lets talk for a second about Ron DeSantis who is, of course, the current governor of Florida, but who ran against Trump in the primary. I mean, the -- the degree of animosity between these two camps was so high. FREY:  Ron Desanctimonious. 
 
HUNT:  Right, the one and only. Do you find this plausible? 
 
FREY:  I mean, it is kind of just a fascinating change a kind of twist of fate for all of this. I mean, he does have the military background. He, obviously, unlike Hegseth, comes with managerial experience. And one could imagine --  
 
HUNT:  And also a public vetting, right?
 
FREY:  Public vetting, and also has experience on Capitol Hill. You know, he has friends on all sides at least on the Republican side of the aisle. One could imagine this could get through. 
 
But it is such a -- I mean, it's just the kind of the epitomizing Trump world where you're in his good blessings one day and then out of his blessings the next day. And if it works out for him that this could be like the fallback plan, then sure, come back on board. 
 
HUNT:  It would be a lot to overcome, I will say. But you know, we'll see. 
 
Kevin Frey, thanks for starting us off this morning I really appreciate it. 
 
All right. Straight ahead here on CNN THIS MORNING, plunging into chaos. Mayhem erupts in South Korea after their president declares martial law before abruptly reversing course. We're going to have the latest live on the ground from Seoul when we return. 
 
Plus, a high profile case. Transgender rights taking center stage at the Supreme Court as they hear the challenge to Tennessee's ban on gender affirming care for minors. 
 
Plus, pardon fallout. Some Democrats left scratching their heads over the president's decision to pardon his son.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMMY FALLON, COMEDIAN:  Apparently, a lot of Democrats are fuming over the decision. Yeah, because up until now Democrats were thrilled with Biden.
 
The pardon is upsetting a lot of people experts say this could really hurt Biden's reelection bid in 2028. It's to really be the --  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:12:03]
 
HUNT:  Welcome back. 
 
Political chaos in South Korea after President Yoon Suk Yeol's stunning bid to declare martial law. The move sparking massive protests in Seoul. The opposition Democratic Party vowing to press treason charges and launch impeachment proceedings if he does not leave office.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PARK CHAN-DAE, FLOOR LEADER, DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF KOREA:  He should step down, resign immediately. This is the mandate of the people. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  South Korea's largest union vowing to strike until the president steps down. Yoon's chief of staff and other top officials already submitting their resignations. 
 
Yoon declared martial law and then rescinded it after accusing South Koreas opposition party of sympathizing with communist North Korea. Lawmakers then forced their way past soldiers into parliament to vote to strike down the decree. 
 
CNN's Ivan Watson joins us live now from Seoul. 
 
Ivan, good morning. Wonderful to see you. 
 
What is the next step here? Can Yoon survive this?
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, that is a very good question. And in fact, a member of the president's own political party told me he doesn't see how its possible that President Yoon can continue to govern after the fiasco of really the last 12 hours where he declared martial law. There were soldiers that tried to prevent lawmakers from gathering in the middle of the night in the national assembly. And yet they did. 
 
They voted 190 of them to overturn the martial law. And that included 18 lawmakers from the presidents own party. And then before dawn this morning, the president backtracked and lifted martial law. It lasted around six hours. 
 
So, now, what we have is the opposition calling for his resignation. And look where I am right now. It's a protest led by a large labor union. Francois is going to pan the camera over here. This is in one part of Seoul where you have hundreds of people gathered at a candlelight vigil here holding signs demanding the president's resignation. 
 
And we've seen another similar protest in front of the national assembly today. I think what's so striking is that amid this political upheaval, the country seems to be functioning as usual. I flew in, landed at the main airport, Incheon Airport, it was functioning normally, no extra kind of security presence on the ground. 
 
The streets were busy. The businesses were open. People are certainly talking about this. The stock market here took a dip about 2 percent and then came back up. But the main opposition parties are drafting up a resolution to try to impeach the president which could be presented as early as tomorrow -- Kasie.
 
HUNT:  Ivan, what are the sort of global implications here? Can you just talk a little bit about why this instability honestly, that were seeing has had ripple effects around the world? 
 <br>[05:15:10]
 
Well, I think its possible Ivan can't hear us. We lost him.
 
All right. Ivan Watson, very grateful to have him on the scene for us. Thanks to him. 
 
Still to come here on CNN THIS MORNING, Donald Trump's pick to lead the FBI targeted some of Kash Patel's communications reportedly intercepted by Iranian hackers. 
 
Plus, folks across the Great Lakes region, you might still be shoveling the several feet of snow from over the weekend. And yet more might be on the way. We'll dig in.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HUNT:  All right, 19 minutes past the hour. 
 
Here's your morning roundup. 
 
A Russian woman who stowed away on a Delta flight from JFK to Paris is headed back to the U.S. today. Videos show the Delta employee confronting the stowaway. 
 <br>[05:20:05]
 
Authorities say she was originally supposed to return to the U.S. on a Delta flight over the weekend, but after boarding the plane, she started screaming and had to be removed from the plane.
 
Trump's choice to lead the FBI, now learning he was the target of Iranian hackers. A source tells CNN that some of Kash Patel's communications were intercepted by the hackers. Patel was just recently informed by the bureau about the breach. 
 
Top executives from the major airlines on Capitol Hill hot seat today over those fees. You know what they are. That they charge for baggage and getting to pick your seat. The CEOs of American, Delta, United, Frontier and Spirit will all be there. According to a Senate report, those five carriers made more than $12 billion on seat selection fees alone from 2018 to 2023. 
 
All right. Time now for weather. After a short reprieve, more snow heading toward the great lakes region, parts of the northeastern United States. 
 
Let's get straight to our meteorologist, our weatherman Derek Van Dam. Derek, good morning. 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  Good morning. I'll give you the weather forecast for a cool $5 if you're good with that. 
 
HUNT:  Come on. 
 
VAN DAM:  I'm on to something, if the airlines can do it. 
 
HUNT:  Hey, we can get you a chair. You know, that's what you got to pay for really, Derek. It's like they force you to stand up. I'm sorry. 
 
VAN DAM:  Okay. 
 
HUNT:  You'll have to pay for your seat. 
 
VAN DAM:  Look, we try our best here. Look, it's 5:00 a.m. in the morning. I've got a lot to tell you about, including the previous lake effect snow system that dumped so much snow that eventually it's causing structures to collapse. We talked about this earlier in the week. 
 
Remember, snowfall on average can weigh about 10 to 15 pounds per cubic foot and that weighs up, especially when you're talking about 5- 1/2 feet of snow. And unfortunately, it caused a barn to collapse over into New York, where we saw some of the highest snowfall totals in the extreme western portions of the state near just downwind of Lake Erie.
 
Now, we have another clipper system that's moving through the Great Lakes right now. So this is a wind driven storm. So yes, it's going to enhance the lake effect snow potential. Once again, you can see the alerts associated with this. Some of this is a mixture of the clipper bringing snowfall that could cause some hazardous conditions but also it is bringing the enhanced lake effect snow potential so that's why we have these barrage of alerts. 
 
And, in fact, there's a blizzard warning. So the criteria for blizzard conditions could be met today. And into the overnight hours tonight near West Virginia, the higher elevations there, again, a lot of wind. I'm going to stress that because this system is coming in with quite a punch, you can see it moving today across the Northern Plains, through the Great Lakes, and eventually into the East Coast by Thursday morning. 
 
If you don't feel it now, you'll feel it by tomorrow morning, along the major East Coast cities, winds gusting over 30 miles per hour. 
 
You know what that does this time of year to the temperature. It causes that wind chill to plummet. It will be cold. Bundle up. Plan accordingly. 
 
And yeah, the snow machine kicks in right behind the storm system. Once again, typical favored downwind areas, but on top of that, a general two to four inch snowfall total from the storm system as it quickly moves through the area and another burst of very cold air. And then finally, some reprieve and a warm up coming up for early next week -- Kasie. 
 
HUNT:  All right, I'll wait for that. I do feel like it was unseasonably warm through the fall, which I normally love. And then all of a sudden, it's winter which I don't love. 
 
VAN DAM:  Now we're paying for it. 
 
HUNT:  I know. Derek Van Dam for us, this morning. Derek, thank you. I'll see you next hour. 
 
VAN DAM:  Thanks, Kasie.
 
HUNT:  All right. Still ahead here on CNN THIS MORNING, the Supreme Court taking up a significant case on transgender rights. How the case dealing with a Tennessee law could impact families nationwide. 
 
Plus, many in President Biden's own party have condemned his pardon of his son. But one ally in Congress says he urged the president to do it weeks ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JIM CLYBURN (D-SC):  I don't know how many people urged him to do so but I did. I emphasized the fact that we, as fathers have obligations to our children.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:28:33]
 
HUNT:  Five-twenty-eight a.m. here on the East Coast, a live look at Las Vegas, Nevada 2:28 a.m. out there. I bet you there's a lot of folks in that picture who have not yet gone to sleep. Here, we are up early. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us.
 
Today, the Supreme Court will hear arguments over a transgender care ban in Tennessee. The law bans gender affirming care for minors. Lawyers from the Biden administration are arguing that the law is a form of sex discrimination while Tennessee says that lawmakers are justified in denying medical care for residents under the age of 18. 
 
CNN's Paula Reid has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Last year, Tennessee Republicans voted to make it illegal for transgender youth to be prescribed certain medications or treatments for gender dysphoria.
 
L. WILLIAMS, PLAINTIFF:  I couldn't imagine that I would be headed to the Supreme Court. 
 
REID:  L. Williams, a teen identified only as "L" in court documents and speaking to us in shadow, was one of those directly impacted by the law. She and her parents sued Tennessee after the ban disrupted her treatment.
 
At the start of adolescence, something to you felt like it wasn't quite right. What was that?
 
L. WILLIAMS:  Well, it was because essentially I was born in a male body and I am a woman, and that's incredibly uncomfortable for me. 
 
REID:  Her parents, Brian and Samantha, had no idea.
 
SAMANTHA WILLIAMS, PLAINTIFF:  I was surprised, but I was never -- I was still like, from the very beginning, supportive.