Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: United States Job Growth Misses Target, Sending Markets Plummeting; Israeli On High Alert As Iran And Its Proxies Vow Retaliation; Harris To Meet With VP Contenders This Weekend; Simone Biles Wins Sixth Gold Medal At Olympics; CNN Speaks To WSJ Moscow Bureau Chief. Aired 12-12:45p ET

Aired August 02, 2024 - 12:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:27]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is CNN Breaking News.
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN HOST: All right. Coming to you live from New York, I am Zain Asher Bianna is off today. You are watching ONE WORLD.
 
A disappointing jobs report today stoking fears that the U.S. economy is weakening. The markets have been in free fall since the opening bell. The 
 
 Dow, Nasdaq, S&amp;P are losing ground. You see the Dow there is down about 800 points.
 
Really get a sense of just how steep the losses are this hour. It's been in the red since the start of trading. Here's what got investors spooked.
 
July's jobs numbers missed expectations. The economy added just 114,000 jobs, much less than the 175,000 economists had been expecting.
 
The unemployment rate was expected to stay steady at 4.1 percent, but instead it rose to 4.3 percent.
 
Let's bring in CNN's Matt Egan to add some perspective. So, Matt, you and I were speaking about an hour ago and we were sort of talking about the fact 
 
 that just because you do have one terrible jobs report doesn't necessarily mean a recession is on the horizon.
 
Just explain to us specifically what has gotten best as concerned here.
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Zain, it is all about the economy and that disappointing jobs report. But the good news is the markets are off their 
 
 worst levels of the day.
 
When we spoke about an hour ago, the Dow was getting close to almost a thousand point drop. So it has bounced from those worst levels.
 
The Nasdaq was off by almost three percent and it has also bounced back a bit.
 
But look, the selling really got started when the jobs report came out weaker than expected 114,000 jobs added.
 
That's the second worst since late 2020. Unemployment rate unexpectedly went up to 4.3 percent, still pretty low, historically, but that is the 
 
 highest rate we've seen in almost three years.
 
You can see it on that chart. It has moved noticeably higher.
 
And look, for years, the jobs market was basically a runaway train. Nothing could seemingly stop it. Not inflation, not those monster interest rate 
 
 hikes from the Fed.
 
And now, it does seem like there are significant cracks in the jobs market. Probably in large part because all of that tough medicine from the Fed.
 
The question though is whether or not this is just a growth scare or if this is something more serious. And I think that we just -- we just don't 
 
 know yet. It's too soon to tell because to your point, Zain, one bad jobs report does not mean that a recession is inevitable, though it is certainly 
 
 raising the specter of something more serious.
 
I talked to Bank of America's top economist, Michael Gapen earlier. And he told me he has not sold that this means that there's going to be a 
 
 recession.
 
In fact, he thinks that the odds are still favoring a soft landing for the economy.
 
But one other thing that investors are doing besides selling stocks today is they're starting to price in an even greater chance that the Fed has to 
 
 move in September.
 
In fact, before today's jobs report, it was looked at as unlikely, about a one in four chance that the Fed would have to do a big rate cut in 
 
 September, cutting by half a percentage point.
 
But now that is starting to be priced in more than two in three chance being priced in by the mark. You see that 69 percent chance of a large 
 
 September rate cut of 50 basis points, which would be quite the move. Again, it's too soon to say that that's going to happen.
 
But, Zain, it does say a lot about the fears that we're seeing creep into the market.
 
ASHER: All right, Matt Egan live for us there. Thank you so much. We are going to certainly keep our eyes on the market this hour.
 
All right. This news just coming in. Israeli forces have detained the imam of the Al-Aqsa mosque. The controversial Israeli Minister for National 
 
 Security, Itamar Ben-Gvir said in a statement that Sheikh Ekrema Sabri was taken from his house in East Jerusalem for questioning. It came hours after 
 
 he mourned Hamas's political leader, Ismail Haniyeh, during Friday prayer.
 
Ben-Gvir is describing Sabri's speech as, quote, inflammatory. Israeli police says it is opening an investigation. Sabri is 85 years old.
 
Meantime, Hamas is calling for prayers in mosques around the world and a day of anger as it bids farewell to its slain political leader.
 
Hundreds of mourners gathered in Doha, Qatar today for the funeral and burial of Ismail Haniyeh who was killed in the Iranian capital two days 
 
 ago. Funeral ceremonies were also held in Tehran.
 <br>[12:05:03]
 
A source says Haniyeh and his bodyguards were killed by an explosive device planted in his guest house months ago. Iran and Hamas are blaming Israel, 
 
 which has neither confirmed nor denied involvement.
 
Haniyeh's death, along with a series of high-profile killings in Lebanon and Gaza have led to vows of retaliation from Iran, Hamas, and Hezbollah.
 
The Israeli military says it's on high alert and ready for a range of scenarios. The U.S. says it's prepared to move resources to the region to 
 
 counter possible retaliation.
 
In the meantime, White House officials says Biden is still optimistic about a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY COMMUNICATIONS ADVISOR: The gaps between the sides are definitely closeable. They are narrow enough that 
 
 they can be closed. The details are small enough that they can be hashed out and we're fully dedicated to getting that over the finish line.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right. Let's get latest now from CNN's Clarissa Ward, joining us live now from Tel Aviv.
 
Israel prepared, at this point, Clarissa, for a range of scenarios. What does that look like on the ground in terms of that preparation?
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, so far we haven't seen the home front command issue any kind of a warning for the majority of 
 
 Israelis to be more secure or more careful about their daily activities.
 
It's pretty much life as usual with the exception of some of those northern communities, very close to the border with Lebanon.
 
But there is no question that preparations are underway here for what is assumed to be an imminent attack. Although, we don't have any specific 
 
 timeline on it.
 
We spoke to a hospital here in Tel Aviv who said that they had cleared out an underground parking lot of all cars so that that could be used as a 
 
 makeshift treatment facility, if you will. If there was some kind of a strike.
 
We've also heard from Jerusalem's municipality which urged people to prepare and clean and get their shelters ready. Warning people that they 
 
 would only have about 90 seconds to get to a shelter once an alert was issued.
 
And also telling people that they should prepare for the possibility of several days of power outages.
 
Also, one of Israel's main supermarket chains, Victory, says that they've seen a 30 percent increase in sales, particularly of canned goods, also 
 
 toilet paper.
 
So there's definitely a sense here, as people prepare for the Jewish Sabbath, which starts in just a few hours that everyone is getting ready 
 
 for what may be to come.
 
But we don't yet have any real idea of what a strike would look like. Would it be similar to what we saw in April when Iran launched 300 projectiles 
 
 towards Israel, the vast majority of which were intercepted by Israel, the U.S. and several other allies?
 
Or would it be some kind of a coordinated attack? As Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah had indicated might be a possibility in his speech 
 
 yesterday. He talked about the potential for groups like the Houthis, like some of these militia and proxies throughout the region, the so-called Axis 
 
 of Resistance to act in coordination with each other, try to overwhelm Israel's much-vaunted Iron Dome.
 
We've also seen that the British Secretary of Defense has been here in Israel today. Yoav Galant, the Israeli Minister of Defense, spoke for the 
 
 third time this week with Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, the U.S. Secretary of Defense.
 
So no question that Israel is working to make sure that it is ready for whatever may come as the region sort of holds its breath and waits to see 
 
 what happens next, Zain.
 
ASHER: Clarissa ward live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Let's take a closer look now at the escalating tensions in the Middle East, Khaled Elgindy, Senior Fellow at Middle East Institute, and 
 
 the author of "Blind Spot: America and the Palestinians, from Balfour to Trump." He joins us live now from Arlington, Virginia.
 
Khaled, thank you so much for being with us.
 
Just in terms of the Israeli strategy here. We just got word that Israel had also killed Mohammed al-Jabari, the man in charge of weapons production 
 
 for the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
 
On top of that, you've got the killing of the sort of high-profile military commander of Hezbollah and two major Hamas leaders in such a short space of 
 
 time, meaning that Israel is essentially provoking Iran, Hamas, Hezbollah, all at once.
 
Just explain to us the strategy and why now.
 
KHALED ELGINDY, SENIOR FELLOW, MIDDLE EAST INSTITUTE: Yes. I mean, I think those are -- those are really important questions.
 
I think in terms of the first question of what, you know, why these targets, I think it's clear that Israel is trying to send a message to all 
 
 three and perhaps others in the region, but to Iran, certainly, and Hamas, as well as Hezbollah, that Israel can reach their targets, that can target 
 
 them in any time or any place, regardless of who it is.
 <br>[12:10:23]
 
I think this is what Israel considers a deterrent, that if their enemies understand that they could be hit at any level, in any way, with really no 
 
 restrictions, as we see in Gaza, there are no restrictions at all, as far as the scale of death and destruction. And so I think that's the message 
 
 that is intended to send.
 
I think that as far as the timing, I think it's hard to ignore the fact that there are -- were ongoing ceasefire talks.
 
I think -- I think it's very -- it's clear to me, at least, that the assassination of Haniyeh was very much directed at the ceasefire talks 
 
 themselves. Because if Hamas were to continue the ceasefire negotiations, as though nothing had happened, it would be perceived, I think, by 
 
 Palestinians and others as a -- as a surrender to continue under those conditions.
 
And so what Israel is doing is sort of forcing Palestinians, either you come back to the table on my terms and essentially surrender, or you cancel 
 
 the entire negotiations and we continue the war, which, as we know, seems to be Benjamin Netanyahu's preference, that he would like this war to 
 
 continue and expand for him in order to stay in power.
 
ASHER: I mean, a lot of people have voiced that same concern. This idea that it is much more politically expedient in for Benjamin Netanyahu to 
 
 have the war just go on.
 
In terms of just going back to Israel's strategy, was this much more about the immediate gratification of retaliation? Or do you think the sort of 
 
 long-term ramifications of these high-profile assassinations had the long- term ramifications and consequences been thoroughly thought through?
 
ELGINDY: I don't think they have. I mean, I think there is -- I think it's very much about immediate gratification.
 
First and foremost, for the person of Benjamin Netanyahu in order, as we said, for him to be able to stay in power. But also since, here we are, 10 
 
 months into a horrific war that has destabilized the region and destroyed almost all of Gaza, in addition to killing almost 40,000 people. And yet, 
 
 Israel has nothing that it could point to as a clear sign of victory.
 
It doesn't have -- it has not decapitated Hamas. It has not destroyed the movement. It hasn't even thoroughly destroyed its military capabilities.
 
And so I think there's a sense that, in some ways, Haniyeh was an easy target. He was not in hiding. He was, in fact, one of the main negotiators 
 
 working on the ceasefire deal with Israel. And he was known for his pragmatism.
 
So I think -- I think it's -- in some ways, it's a way to show the Israeli public, look, we are doing something. We're big. We're winning, but the 
 
 long-term ramifications, I think, are -- have not been well thought through.
 
As I mentioned, Haniyeh was a relative moderate within the movement of Hamas. And, of course, this is not going to destroy Hamas as a -- as a 
 
 political or even as a military force, but it could radicalize them.
 
And I think it definitely emboldens hardliners like Yahya Sinwar, the leader of Hamas in Gaza, to become much more hard-line.
 
So the short-term ramifications are, it will make a ceasefire much more difficult, if not impossible.
 
And the long-term consequences is we're just adding -- we're fueling the conflict that has -- that is already, I think, destabilize the region but 
 
 will continue to be a source of turmoil for many, many years to come.
 
If you just look at the scale of destruction in Gaza, it's -- we're talking about generational trauma that is likely to add many decades to an already 
 
 longstanding conflict.
 
ASHER: Because at the end of the day, you know, you assassinate these individuals and they end up being replaced. I mean, that is the reality on 
 
 the ground.
 
ELGINDY: Right.
 
ASHER: And, you know, we're two months away from the one-year anniversary of October 7th. And as you point out, Israel really is no closer to its 
 
 stated goal of completely eliminated -- eliminating Hamas and maybe even further away from it, depending on the consequences of these high-profile 
 
 assassinations.
 <br>[12:15:13]
 
Khaled Elgindy, we have to leave it there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. After a collective eight years in Russian captivity, the nightmare is over for three Americans who are now back on home soil, but 
 
 the long journey to reintegration and recovery is just beginning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: It was a scene of unimaginable joy on Thursday night as former U.S. Marine, Paul Whelan, "Wall Street Journal" reporter, Evan Gershkovich, and 
 
 Russian-American journalist, Alsu Kurmasheva, touched down at Joint Base Andrews.
 
They are now in San Antonio, Texas undergoing medical evaluations.
 
Whelan, who spent the longest in captivity, spoke briefly about his horrifying ordeal.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAUL WHELAN, U.S. MARINE VETERAN FREED IN PRISONER SWAP WITH RUSSIA: I went on a two-week vacation, you know. The FSB grabbed me, said I was a spy, I'm 
 
 a -- apparently, a general in the army, a secret agent for DIA.
 
This is the nonsense narrative they came up with and they just -- they wouldn't let it go, so. This is how Putin runs his government. This is how 
 
 Putin runs his country.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're all glad you're here.
 
WHELAN: Yes, I'm glad I'm home. Yes. I'm never going back there again.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Never going back there again.
 
Meantime, Russian President Vladimir Putin greeted Russians who were freed in the massive prison exchange after their plane landed in Moscow.
 
The Kremlin says two children, on the left side of your screen, learned their true nationality while on their plane ride to Moscow on Thursday.
 
The boy and the girl were living in Slovenia with their parents who are actually Russian spies. The Kremlin says, the kids didn't know who Mr. 
 
 Putin was as he greeted them on the tarmac.
 
All right. Back here in the U.S., Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is using the prisoner swap to criticize President Joe Biden and his 
 
 running mate, J.D. Vance. It says, the fears of a second Trump administration motivated Russia to agree to the deal. Here's more from both 
 
 men.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: I heard that. I heard he said that, why didn't Trump get him out? And he was taken during that time. 
 
 You know, I got out 59 different people, 59. And I didn't pay money.
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), REPUBLICAN VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: We have to ask ourselves, why are they coming home? And I think it's because bad guys 
 
 all over the world recognize Donald Trump is about to be back in office so they're cleaning house. That's a good thing. I think it's a testament to 
 
 Donald Trump's strength.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: And CNN has learned that Kamala Harris will be meeting this weekend with a top finalist to be her running mate.
 
Harris is expected to meet with Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz, Arizona Senator Mark Kelly, Kentucky Governor 
 
 Andy Beshear, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, and Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker.
 
Sources say the presumptive democratic presidential nominee has not made any decisions yet and could also meet with other contenders as well. She's 
 
 expected to pick her name by -- name her pick, excuse me, by Tuesday.
 
CNN's Edward-Isaac Dovere is tracking the story for us.
 
So just in terms of the frontrunners, I mean I listed a lot of names there. But the frontrunners, at this point, really are Shapiro and also Kelly.
 
Just explain to us what both men deliver, what they will give to Harris, how she'll benefit from them, especially given how important Pennsylvania 
 
 is with Shapiro with those electoral votes.
 
EDWARD-ISAAC DOVERE, CNN SENIOR REPORTER: Yes. Like I think first of all it should be said that we don't know exactly that they're the frontrunners. 
 
 It's where a lot of the speculation is.
 
Because of what each of them would bring to the ticket. Josh Shapiro, Governor of Pennsylvania, a key battleground state. It's hard to see how 
 
 Donald Trump would be able to win the Electoral College without Pennsylvania. There is a way, but it's tough.
 
And Shapiro has been able to win by historic margins in every statewide race he's run there and been very popular there, moved through a lot of 
 
 policy issues that have been very popular with both Republicans and Democrats.
 
Mark Kelly is a guy who has been through two Senate races in Arizona in the last couple of years because of the rules there and the seat that he took 
 
 over. He is an astronaut. Before that married to Gabby Giffords, obviously, the congresswoman who was shot became a big gun rights -- or gun safety 
 
 advocate and talking about gun rights as how you do that with gun safety and gun control.
 
But Kelly also in the Senate, not only has been representing a border state, but has been taking a harder line on some of the immigration issues 
 
 and border issues than other Democrats have. And there is a sense that that would give a strength to Harris as she is trying to push back on Republican 
 
 attacks on her over the border.
 
ASHER: All right. Edward-Isaac Dovere. Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
DOVERE: Thank you.
 
ASHER: All right. Pop star Justin Timberlake is pleading not guilty to a charge of driving while intoxicated.
 <br>[12:20:02]
 
The singer appeared virtually on camera at the hearing in Sag Harbor -- Sag Harbor, New York where he was arrested in June or rather he was arrested in 
 
 June after police pulled him over for allegedly failing to stop at a stop sign.
 
Timberlake told police he had one martini and followed his friend's home. The next conference is set for August 9th, at which Timberlake is not 
 
 required to appear.
 
All right. Still to come here on CNN, American Sha'Carri Richardson races on an Olympic track for the first time and proves she has what it takes to 
 
 be a champion.
 
Plus, American gymnasts, Simone Biles, picks up her sixth gold medal at the Olympics, adding to her incredible list of achievements. A live report for 
 
 you ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. It is a monumental time for some of the biggest names at the Olympic Games in Paris.
 
American gymnast, Simone Biles, arguably the star attraction of this year's Games, proved yet again, why many are calling her the greatest of all time.
 
And U.S. track star, Sha'Carri Richardson, makes her Olympic debut, easily qualifying for the women's semifinals in the 100 meter heat.
 
CNN's Patrick Snell joins us live now.
 
So, Patrick, and just in terms of Sha'Carri Richardson, I mean, I heard that she was on -- I didn't watch it because obviously I'm anchoring, but I 
 
 heard that she was on fire during that heat. What can we expect from her in terms of the semifinals and finals?
 <br>[12:25:05]
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORTS: Who knows? Probably just more victories -- 
 
ASHER: The same, right?
 
SNELL: -- all the way to gold. She's absolutely -- you're absolutely spot on, absolutely irresistible form what an impact the 24-year-old from Texas 
 
 is making on these summer games.
 
You said it, Zain, the U.S. sprinting sensation in just terrific form early, she's powering her way to victory in her opening 100 meters heat at 
 
 these French summer games.
 
Now the American just easing out of the blocks with a safe start on this Friday, just cruise to the winning. In fact, she seem to have this race won 
 
 by the halfway point, I think that's fair to say. Finishing in a time of 10.94 seconds. That's 0.2 per second quicker than her nearest competitor in 
 
 heat one at the State de France where this was all playing out.
 
Now the competition will get pretty much harder, I think that's fair to say, as the rounds do progress, but it's job done for Richardson. She 
 
 competes again Saturday in the semis there in the French capital.
 
You know, Zain, talk about announcing yourself on the Olympic stage, this is her first-ever appearance at the summer games.
 
Remember, at the Olympic trial, three years ago, Richardson winning the women's 100 meters, but was banned from competing in Tokyo after testing 
 
 positive for THC, a chemical found in marijuana. So huge spotlight on her already.
 
She's also the reigning 100 meter world champ. And when you're the best, there's pressure that comes with it as she carries the tag of favorites 
 
 going into the weekend. She's also the fastest woman this year having posted 10.7 on in June.
 
Also making it through, I want to point out all the top contenders including Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce of Jamaica, a two-time champ in this 
 
 event. She's making her fifth and final Olympic.
 
Zain, back to you.
 
ASHER: And just in terms of Simone Biles, I mean speaking of another comeback, right, in terms of what she went through in Tokyo and then what 
 
 she did. I watched it yesterday with my kids. They love gymnastics and they watched her and so inspiring, especially on the vault.
 
She did really well -- 
 
SNELL: Right.
 
ASHER: -- on the vault -- 
 
SNELL: Zain, I -- 
 
ASHER: -- right?
 
SNELL: I bet they were so truly inspired as they watched on with mom. Yes. You may say -- 
 
ASHER: They were jumping off the furniture trying to copy her actually.
 
SNELL: OK. Well, that's something you got to keep an eye on, Zain.
 
Yes. Biles back to her brilliant best and especially overcoming the twisties. I'll get into that in just a moment.
 
What a story she continues to be at the (INAUDIBLE) Olympic in the French capital. Biles, the most decorated American gymnast ever at the summer 
 
 games, earning a dramatic goal for team USA.
 
This was in the women's all-around final, at six Olympics goals and counting. Biles holding off her rivals to get this one done.
 
Biles' teammate, by the way, Suni Lee, taking the bronze, but it was Biles' day in the end. She has yet another goal medal to her career achievements 
 
 and completing her epic comeback following, as I say, her widely publicized withdrawal from the Tokyo Olympic three years ago.
 
She courageously took on and beat a twisty. She later withdrew also from the individual all-around competition in Japan, saying she wanted to focus 
 
 on her mental health.
 
Let's hear from her now, so who's the best, Simone? Or should we say the greatest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIMONE BILES, MOST DECORATED AMERICAN GYMNAST: my goat necklace is just kind of an ode because the people love it and then some people hate it, so 
 
 it's like the best of both worlds.
 
And I was like, OK. If it goes well, we'll wear the goat necklace. I know people will go crazy over it, but at the end of the day, it is crazy that I 
 
 am in the conversation of greatest of all athletes, because I just still think I'm Simone Biles from Spring Texas that loves to flip.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL: And I'll spell it out for you G-O-A-T, the greatest of all time, Zain. And, of course, she may not be done yet competing for three more gold 
 
 medals at these games.
 
ASHER: I love that necklace.
 
SNELL: There could be no stopping her.
 
ASHER: I mean, own it. You are the greatest. Own it.
 
SNELL: Yes. Yes.
 
ASHER: You know.
 
SNELL: And she is.
 
ASHER: It's not a secret.
 
SNELL: She is, very visually.
 
ASHER: I know. All right. Patrick Snell live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Still to come, "The Wall Street Journal" headline says it all. Evan Gershkovich is free. My conversation with the paper's Moscow bureau 
 
 chief when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:41]
 
ASHER: All right. Update now on our top story. The U.S. markets are ending the week in a bit of a tailspin after a less-than-stellar jobs report.
 
Take a look at how the markets are doing. The Dow, the Nasdaq, and the S&amp;P are all down closer to two percent. Here's why investors are freaking out. 
 
 They were betting on a September rate cut by the Fed, but these new job numbers suggest that maybe the Fed isn't acting fast enough.
 
114,000 new jobs added in July is much lower than the 175,000 that economists had been expecting.
 
Let's get more now from our Richard Quest, host of course of "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS."
 
So, Richard, let me just pose that question to you. Has the Fed been acting fast enough?
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN HOST: We don't really know. The point about -- excuse me. The point about these numbers, Zain, is that this is the medicine 
 
 working.
 
Have they overdosed the patient marginally so that the slowdown is a little more pronounced than they'd expected? Possibly. We can't really tell at 
 
 this point. It's one of those things you'll only be able to see in the rearview mirror.
 
But any idea that what we are seeing is somehow a panic or that somehow something's gone dramatically wrong is simply not the case.
 
The Fed raised interest rates, 10 or 11 times, in a short period of time, specifically to kill inflation and to slow down the economy. And that's how 
 
 you do it. You slow down the economy, inflation comes down, people have less to spend, and eventually that feeds into the job markets.
 
Jobs, Zain, as you know, is a lagging indicator. It's the last thing to respond. We're about 18 months since the first sort of major cuts were 
 
 done. This is what you would expect to see. A slowdown in the economy working its way through to give it its posh name, the monetary lag, and 
 
 that's what's happening now.
 
ASHER: Well, we'll see what happens in September -- 
 
QUEST: They're going to cut. I mean -- I mean -- 
 
ASHER: Right. By a single -- by 50 basis points? What are your thoughts on that?
 
QUEST: Oh, no, no, no, no. I would be -- I would -- well, I don't know, but I would be very surprised.
 
Fifty basis points would suggest that they've got it wrong. They're seriously worried about the jobs market. The dual mandate, remember, 
 
 inflation versus employment and that they need to take dramatic action.
 <br>[12:35:03]
 
ASHER: Right.
 
QUEST: I don't think they see it like that. They've still got inflation at 2.6 percent, which is higher, it's about a quarter higher than the target 
 
 rate.
 
Now, they're going to dip their toe in the water. It'll be a quarter percent, and then it'll be, when is the next one? And the cumulative effect 
 
 of the monetary easing, they hope, of course, will give that strength to the economy.
 
But any idea -- 
 
ASHER: Right.
 
QUEST: -- that the Fed is thinking, help. It's a panic. No. Don't leave that -- 
 
ASHER: No.
 
QUEST: -- for one second.
 
ASHER: Richard Quest, always good to see you. Thank you so much.
 
All right. The tears, hugs, and emotional unions are now over. And so is the nightmare for three Americans wrongfully detained and now freed from 
 
 Russian captivity.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: "The Wall Street Journal" newsroom erupted into applause on Thursday, celebrating the announcement that journalist, Evan Gershkovich, 
 
 was released after nearly 500 days behind bars.
 
Oh, what an emotional moment in that newsroom.
 
Time now for The Exchange in my conversation with Moscow Bureau Chief for "The Wall Street Journal." And the woman who actually hired Evan. You 
 
 actually hired Evan, Ann.
 
Ann Simmons, I'll introduce you. You hired Evan, he was your employee. I've known you for about, I want to say, three years, Anne. So, obviously, I've 
 
 known you before all of this took place.
 
But just describe that moment. That moment when Evan, you know, hadn't checked in with a security team, like he was required to do. And you first 
 
 realized that something was a little bit off, that something had gone wrong here.
 
ANN SIMONS, MOSCOW BUREAU CHIEF, WALL STREET JOURNAL: Well, Zain, first of all, thank you for having me. And this is indeed a kind of a glorious time. 
 
 We know the newsroom has been in tears. We're elated that Evan has finally big released after 491 days.
 
And that dreaded day, back in March of 2023 last year, it was a dreaded day. Evan, as you mentioned, did not check in as it was required with the 
 
 security team.
 
And I also remember sending the notes saying, you haven't checked in. What's going on? And didn't realize at that time, obviously, that anything 
 
 was wrong. You know, often reporters might just forget to check in, and interview may be delayed.
 
But in fact, we saw a clip on social media on Telegram of someone being escorted out of a restaurant with a coat over his head, and my heart sank.
 
Just remember thinking, oh, my God, is that Evan? So has he not -- is this why he hasn't checked in? And, of course then, you know, the ball started 
 
 rolling then, and the rest is history. We realize then that he had been detained.
 
ASHER: Gosh. You know, I've spoken to a friend of Evan's over the years. I think I spoke to him -- I spoke to a good friend of Evan's, Jeremy Berke, 
 
 about two or three months ago, roughly around the one-year anniversary of when he'd been detained.
 
And, you know, everything I read about Evan is really that he had this great, sort of lively, bubbly personality. He was great with people, he was 
 
 funny, he was witty.
 
Just explain -- I mean, you are his boss. I don't know whether -- at what side of him you necessarily saw.
 
But just talk to us about what he was -- what he was like as a person.
 
SIMMONS: Well, what I want to start off by saying is that when Evan came in to interview for the job, I mean, I kind of knew instantly, I've got to 
 
 hire this guy, because he's just got this infectious personality.
 
He exudes enthusiasm when it comes to journalism. He had told me about some of the stories that he had written in terms of going out into the field.
 
He was not an armchair reporter. He wanted boots to be boots on the ground. And that is certainly that what brought color and richness to his stories.
 
And, basically, Evan is such an incredible reporter. One of the main reasons is because, as you know, he has Russian heritage.
 
ASHER: Mm-hmm.
 
SIMMONS: So, he's definitely able to understand some of the subtle nuances when it comes to Russian culture and literature and history, which he 
 
 studied, and he kind of grew up embody -- but embody in basically Russian culture. And that was such a great exam -- such a great advantage to have, 
 
 rather than it being learned, if you wish, no matter how long you, you know, could have remained in Russia.
 
I've been covering Russia for 30 odd years, but, you know -- 
 
ASHER: Right.
 
SIMMONS: -- it's still a learned process because I'm not from that background.
 
So, certainly we are all elated and just kind of want to get that back.
 
ASHER: Yes. I mean, I thought -- listen, I got really emotional just seeing what it was like in the WSJ newsroom and just the tears and just how, you 
 
 know, how consistently people who work at WSJ, at "The Wall Street Journal" have been really trying to keep Evan's story, you know, in all of our minds 
 
 and in all of our imaginations, so that he's not forgotten at all over the past year or so.
 
Evan was not naive to the risks. I mean, obviously, you -- you know, you were a Moscow bureau chief. You know the risks in terms of reporting in 
 
 that country.
 <br>[12:40:03]
 
Just explain to us what the sort of security protocols were, just in terms of how this sort of thing is usually prevented. I mean, obviously, it's 
 
 impossible to prevent 100 percent, but what guardrails are in place here?
 
SIMMONS: I think I've got to start by saying, Zain, that of course, you know, it's not foolproof. It's not -- you cannot 100 percent protect from 
 
 being just picked up by the FSB in Russia.
 
But certainly, "The Wall Street Journal" does have in place certain security protocols, not all of which I can get into.
 
ASHER: Of course.
 
SIMMONS: But one of the main things is making sure that journalists check in at a regular time, their whereabouts and knowing at all times.
 
And there's a whole series of checks and balances that we all have to abide by. And Evan would have done that. And that is one of the things that "The 
 
 Wall Street Journal" takes very, very seriously. It's protecting its reporters in the field.
 
Now, one thing I should stress is that Evan was accredited as a journalist to work in Russia by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that, of course, 
 
 doesn't make you immune from any kind of, as we've seen from detention or any other kind of harassment, but it certainly gives you the sense that you 
 
 have -- you know, you're following the rules and you have a right to be there according to Russia's foreign ministry because they have given you 
 
 journalistic accreditation.
 
ASHER: Mm-hmm.
 
SIMMONS: And that's what Evan would have had. And, of course, as we know, he was down there practicing journalism.
 
ASHER: Right.
 
SIMMONS: Nothing more, following a story and he was detained.
 
ASHER: I mean, so, obviously, "The Wall Street Journal" had to make significant changes as a result of this. I mean, you're still the Moscow 
 
 Bureau Chief, but you're doing that job from London for obvious reasons, given what happened.
 
Just in terms of what happens next with Evan, I mean, obviously he loved being a reporter, you know, that was his calling or that is his calling. He 
 
 loves his country. He has obviously Russian heritage, right? He speaks Russian fluently. He's enamored with it. That's part of his own culture.
 
What happens next in terms of his career? What does he -- where does he go from here?
 
SIMMONS: Well, that decision, of course, Zain, will be made by senior editors at the newspaper and also by Evan himself.
 
What I can say is that, immediately, he'll be recuperated and rested. And, of course, the paper, the company will give him as much time as he needs.
 
Knowing Evan though, and just the kind of personality he is and character he is, he's going to be chomping at the bit to get back to work. I can just 
 
 tell. You heard already -- 
 
ASHER: I don't know him, but that's certainly the impression that I get. That's certainly the impression I get.
 
Ann -- 
 
SIMMONS: Right.
 
ASHER: -- Simmons, thank you so much for your time. And I'm so glad that we're speaking about this under really good sort of headlines, you know?
 
I couldn't be happier -- 
 
SIMMONS: Thank you.
 
ASHER: -- for you and your team. I'm just so grateful that he's back home safely.
 
All right. That does it -- 
 
SIMMONS: Thank you so much, Zain.
 
ASHER: -- for this hour of ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher. Appreciate you watching.
 
MARKETPLACE AFRICA is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:43]
 
(MARKETPLACE AFRICA)
 
END