Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Trump Wins Iowa Caucus; Donald Trump Back In A New York Courtroom For The Opening Of The Second E. Jean Carroll Defamation Trial; Hamas Continues To Inflict Psychological Torture On Families Of Hostages; Emmy Awards Goes Center Stage After A Four-Month Delay. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired January 16, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:36]
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: All right, welcome to "One World". I'm Zain Asher coming to you live from New York. 
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: And live from Davos, Switzerland, hello everyone. I'm Bianna Golodryga. This hour, I'll be discussing some of 
 
 the world's top headlines with some of the world's biggest players. 
 
ASHER: And I'll be bringing you all the latest on all things politics as the countdown for the New Hampshire primaries begins. All right, the big 
 
 question in the wake of the Iowa caucus last night, maybe is the race for the Republican nomination effectively already over? Donald Trump pretty 
 
 much trounced his rivals last night, winning by 30 percentage points. That is, by the way, the biggest margin of victory in Iowa Republican caucus 
 
 history. And the way he thanked his opponents actually seemed like someone who was no longer all that worried about them. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I really think this is time now for everybody, our country, to come together. We want to come 
 
 together. I want to congratulate Ron and Nikki for having a good time together. We're all having a good time together. And I think they both 
 
 actually did very well. I really do. I think they both did very well. 
 
ASHER: Ron DeSantis narrowly came in second place. It was actually a very distant second place compared to where Donald Trump came in. And he had 
 
 actually dedicated so much time and so much money and effort to Iowa that he probably literally had to finish second for his campaign to survive. 
 
 Still, he sounded upbeat when he spoke to the crowds afterwards and he vowed to press on. 
 
RON DESANTIS, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: They threw everything but the kitchen sink at us. They spent almost $50 million attacking us. No 
 
 one's faced that much all the way just through Iowa. I am not going to make any excuses, and I guarantee you this, I will not let you down. Thank you 
 
 all, God bless you. 
 
ASHER: Nikki Haley was hoping to beat Ron DeSantis for second place, but instead she had to settle for third. It was really the frigid temperatures, 
 
 right, that depressed turned out last night. It was actually the lowest attendance for a caucus in Iowa in more than 20 years. And that actually 
 
 may have hurt Haley more than the other candidates because she had invested less in the Iowa ground game and the sort of get out the vote operations 
 
 there. She is now squarely focused on New Hampshire, where polls show that she is within striking distance of Donald Trump. Take a listen to what she 
 
 had to say. 
 
NIKKI HALEY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: When we started, there were fourteen people in the race. We had two percent in the polls and we came 
 
 out with a strong showing. That's what we wanted in Iowa. Now, we are in New Hampshire. You can look at the polls in New Hampshire. We are a stone's 
 
 throw away from Donald Trump.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right, let's go to Iowa now. That is where CNN's Steve Contorno is today. So listen, the fact is Donald Trump shattered records, right? He 
 
 broke records when it comes to just how well he did in Iowa last night. He won by 30 points. It's really hard to see where the other two go from here 
 
 over the long term. 
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: That's right, Zain. I was at the DeSantis campaign headquarters last night, and you could sense the oxygen being 
 
 sucked out of the room as his close allies and supporters watched these results come in. They were hoping for two things here. One was that Trump 
 
 wouldn't reach 50 percent. He did. He eclipsed that. 
 
The other was that there would be some distance between DeSantis and Haley to sort of give them a sense that they had put some space in between her 
 
 and blunted her momentum. And he didn't do that, as well. They finished within two percentage points of each other. 
 
So, now we go into New Hampshire, a state where Haley is doing much better than DeSantis. And he has faced questions about whether or not he has a 
 
 viable path going forward at all. But he is trudging on. He's actually spent this morning in South Carolina in Haley's home state, taking the 
 
 battle to her, claiming that he will do better in her state than she would. Listen to what he told his supporters there. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DESANTIS: Like Haley, look, she was Governor here for six years. Can you name major achievements under her tenure? 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
I mean, tell me if there are, because she hasn't been able to do it. She goes around and says that she's a champion for school choice. Did they do 
 
 school choice when she was Governor here? No. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CONTORNO: Haley, meanwhile, says this is a two person race between her and Donald Trump. She's basically going to ignore Ron DeSantis going forward. 
 
 She won't participate in either the two scheduled debates in New Hampshire unless Donald Trump shows up, just showing that she wants to focus her 
 
 attention on the front-runner going forward. Zain. 
 
ASHER: All right, Steve Contorno, live for us there. Thank you so much. All right, let's dive deeper into what all of this means. I want to bring in 
 
 CNN Political Commentator, S.E. Cupp. So S.E., I'm just going to ask you the same question, basically, that I posed to Steve Contorno there. Is 
 
 there really a path? Is there a path for anyone to beat a man who just won Iowa by 30 points? And if so, what does that path look like? 
 
S.E. CUPP, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yeah, it's narrow and circuitous and weird. Okay. But it's there. Let me put some of this in context. Obviously, 
 
 Trump won. He trounced. He won decisively in Iowa. However, 40 percent, 40 plus percent of the Iowa Republican electorate, right, a very MAGA sort of 
 
 base, voted for someone else, someone not named Donald Trump. 
 
Now, that's meaningless, as long as DeSantis and Haley keep splitting that 40 percent. But if that would consolidate around one person, well then that 
 
 would really pierce his inevitability. That's tricky to do because, let's say Ron DeSantis drops out, not all his voters go to Haley and vice versa. 
 
 So, there's kind of some weird math in there that you'd have to see shake out. 
 
But those two are also kind of waiting out the clock, right? We know that Trump is under threat of all of these legal cases. He could in fact be in 
 
 prison when the election happens. And I think they're both banking on if they can hang in long enough, enough voters and donors saying, I'm not sure 
 
 I want to risk this important election and this vote on a guy who's in prison currently. 
 
And guess what? Nikki Haley beats Biden by an even wider margin than Donald Trump does. So, this isn't so much of a loss. I think that's the calculus 
 
 that they're both considering as they look toward the next few primary states, hoping to make it to Super Tuesday. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, I mean, that was going to be my next question. This idea of, of course, the reason why people suspend their political campaigns is 
 
 because they run out of money. So, I was going to sort of talk about, listen, it is hard to sort of see how donors continue to fund candidates 
 
 who are losing or who have lost Iowa by 30 points. 
 
But I think for an international audience, there is another question that I think is more pressing. This is the first election or rather 2024 is the 
 
 first election year that we've had in this country since January 6, since the insurrection, January 6, 2021. And what does it say that Republican 
 
 voters in Iowa are rewarding someone pretty significantly by 30 points who was at least in part responsible for that insurrection we saw that day. 
 
 What does that say about the state of this party, S.E.? 
 
CUPP: Yeah, I mean, they rewarded him and they prioritized this. We have entrance polling at CNN, going into the Iowa caucuses, why people were 
 
 there and why they were going to vote the way they were going to vote. And about 60 to 70 percent of voters said the thing that was most important to 
 
 them was a candidate who represented their values and was going to fight for them. Twelve to 14 percent prioritized a candidate that could beat Joe 
 
 Biden. 
 
So, they're not even looking at someone that can win or someone that's electable as a top priority. They really see Trump's strength in the fact 
 
 that he, you know, is denying the election results from 2020 still. A good percentage of those Iowa voters agree with Trump that the election was 
 
 stolen. I mean, a majority of those voters believe that. 
 
And so if you look at that those priorities in Iowa, which is not representative of every state, but you know, it's certainly a snapshot, it 
 
 is very clear Trump has remade the Republican Party and the electorate in his image around those issues, no longer the policy issues, because he 
 
 didn't deliver on a lot of the policy issues that he promised to the first time around. 
 
He's not even delivering on all the winning, right? He lost the White House, the House, the Senate. 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
So, that's not the concern for today's Republican Party. It's that he believes what he believes and they believe it, too. 
 
ASHER: And just in terms of, one last question for you, just in terms of what happens next year, I mean, I think it's interesting that Ron DeSantis, 
 
 instead of heading to New Hampshire right away, he stopped in South Carolina first. That tells you a lot about his strategy. I mean, obviously 
 
 he knows that it's not going to go well for him in New Hampshire, but it really shows you that he has his eye on the long term and that he's looking 
 
 ahead. 
 
CUPP: Yes, you're exactly right about that. And here's how I'm framing it. It's the money versus the map. How long can Ron DeSantis go versus how far 
 
 can Nikki Haley go? Ron's problems are immediate. He does not do well in New Hampshire and not in South Carolina either. He is hoping on bare bones 
 
 money to last long enough to get to states that are more favorable to him. Nikki's problem is in the future. 
 
She does great in the next two states, good enough to keep going anyway. But the states after that get less and less attractive for Nikki Haley. 
 
 There are fewer moderates and independents to court. So, it's this money versus map problem. And it's kind of a race to see who can go the distance, 
 
 who can be the last man or woman standing. 
 
ASHER: Right, S.E. Cupp, always good to have you, my friend. Thank you so much. All right. And Donald Trump is also making a pit stop in another 
 
 state before heading to New Hampshire. Latest day, earlier, he was back in a New York courtroom for the opening of the second E. Jean Carroll 
 
 defamation trial. She's the writer who sued Donald Trump and won for defamatory statements he made about her allegations of sexual assault. The 
 
 trial is to determine damages. This time around, it is the first time in decades that Trump has been in the same room as his accuser. 
 
All right, tensions in the Middle East are heating up after Iran fired a barrage of missiles into northern Iraq on Monday. A Kurdish news outlet 
 
 says missiles fired by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards destroyed the home of a Kurdish businessman under the pretext that it was used by Israeli 
 
 spies. Officials say at least four people were killed in the city of Erbil. Iran also fired missiles at what it called terror groups in northern Syria, 
 
 describing them as a security threat. 
 
Meantime, U.S. Central Command says the Navy -- the U.S. Navy, seized Iranian-made missiles that were en route to Houthi militants in Yemen. It 
 
 happened during a raid off the coast of Somalia just last week. During the operation, two Navy SEALs went overboard, and those Navy SEALs are still 
 
 missing as I speak. 
 
We're also learning Houthi militants have claimed responsibility for striking a cargo ship owned by the United States in the Gulf of Aden on 
 
 Monday. They vow any future strikes on Yemen will not go unanswered. They are vowing to retaliate. The Qatari Prime Minister spoke at the Economic 
 
 Forum in Davos about these Houthi attacks. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHEIKH MOHAMMED BIN ABDULRAHMAN AL THANI, QATARI PRIME MINISTER: What we have right now in the region is a recipe of escalation everywhere. We 
 
 shouldn't just focus on those small conflicts. We should focus on the main conflict in Gaza. And as soon as it's diffused, I believe everything else 
 
 will be diffused. 
 
All right, Natasha Bertrand is following this story from the Pentagon. Nada Bashir has this covered from Beirut. Natasha, I want to start with you. 
 
 Let's talk about the statement that we got from the U.S. Central Command saying that the U.S. Navy had seized a lot of weapons from Houthi 
 
 militants, that this raid happened off the coast of Somalia. Just explain to us a little bit more about the weapons that were seized, where we 
 
 understand that they were similar to some of the weapons that were used to attack U.S. vessels in the Red Sea. 
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yeah, Zain. So, these were weapons that were -- essentially they were components for missile 
 
 systems that the U.S. Navy found when they boarded this vessel, the small vessel. They were conducting a flag verification operation, essentially 
 
 ensuring that the vessel was flagged properly and when they boarded they found these components that were propulsion guidance and warheads for 
 
 medium range ballistic missiles, according to a statement that we got out of Central Command. 
 
Now, the more interesting part of this, as you mentioned, is that these were Iranian made weapons and these were components that were going to 
 
 Houthi controlled areas of Yemen according to central commands and other defense officials that we spoke to and this marks the first time since the 
 
 Houthis started launching their attacks targeting commercial shipping in the Red Sea that the U.S. has managed to intercept weapons that appeared to 
 
 be going to the Houthis and that the Houthis have been using to carry out these attacks. 
 
And so, this is significant because it really underscores kind of how significant the Iranian support continues to be for the Houthis. They 
 
 continue to receive this weaponry and support from the Iranians, even though the Iranians have not themselves entered the conflict and hit US 
 
 forces directly. 
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
But during this operation, two Navy SEALs who were part of that boarding op, they actually went overboard. 
 
According to defense officials, the waves were extremely high. They were dealing with roughly eight foot swells. And one Navy SEAL went overboard 
 
 and the other protocol followed after him and those two Navy SEALs remain missing. The U.S. center command says they're currently undergoing search 
 
 and recovery efforts and they're going to keep everyone updated on that as they continue, Zain.
 
ASHER: All right, Natasha, stand by. Nada, let me bring you in because let's just sort of drill down on these rising tensions -- these escalating 
 
 tensions in the Middle East. We got word that Iran launched several missile strikes in Kurdistan in northern Iraq. Iran is saying that they were 
 
 attacking Israeli spy headquarters. The U.S. is calling these strikes irresponsible, completely imprecise, reckless. What more do we know so far? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, absolutely. And there is mounting concern, not just in the region, but of course broader and further afield around the 
 
 potential for the war that we are seeing unfolding in Gaza to escalate, to spill over into the region, and particularly when it comes to Iran and 
 
 crucially groups backed by Iran. 
 
Now, last night's attack has certainly raised concern according to media in the semi-autonomous region of northern Iraq. At least 10 ballistic missiles 
 
 were fired by Iran across the area surrounding the capital, Erbil, at least five of which are reported to have targeted the residence of a Kurdish 
 
 businessman. 
 
Now, we have, of course, heard from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, which has claimed to have carried out this missile attack, acknowledging this in 
 
 the early hours of Tuesday morning. As he mentioned, Zain, they say that they were targeting what they've described and characterized as the main 
 
 espionage headquarters for Israel's intelligence agency, Mossad. 
 
We have received a statement from Iran's Foreign Ministry earlier today saying that these attacks were, in their words, precise and targeted, that 
 
 they were focused on targeting what they've described as Israeli intelligence forces charged with killing Iranian commanders and carrying 
 
 out attacks against Iranian assets. 
 
Of course, we have reached out to the Israeli authorities for comment on this. We have also, of course, in that same moment seen attacks carried out 
 
 by Iran targeting locations in Syria as well. 
 
Now, on that front, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps says that they were targeting anti-Iran terror organizations, namely in response to those 
 
 twin blasts we saw earlier this month in the Iranian city of Khedman, which of course killed dozens of people who had been paying their respects for 
 
 slain Iranian Commander Qassem Soleimani at his burial site on the fourth anniversary of his death. He was of course killed in a strike on Baghdad 
 
 International Airport, ordered at the time by then U.S. President Donald Trump. 
 
So, there has been concern for some time now around the potential reaction and response we may see from Iran at the time, of course, of those twin 
 
 blasts that were shortly claimed by ISIS. Of course, though, when we have been hearing the messaging from Iran over the last few days and weeks, that 
 
 has certainly raised alarm bells around the potential for further responses more broadly in the region. And of course, Iran-backed groups, as well. 
 
You had Natasha mentioning -- talking about the situation in Yemen, the Iran-backed Houthis, but also crucially here in Lebanon as well, where we 
 
 continue to see crossfire on the southern border between Iran-backed Hezbollah and Israeli forces along the border. 
 
ASHER: All right, Nada Bashir, thank you so much. Natasha, Bertrand, thank you so much as well. All right, I want to hand things over to my colleague, 
 
 Bianna Golodryga, who's in Davos for you, who has more on what is next. Bianna. 
 
GOLODRYGA: All right, Zain, thank you. Coming up, my conversation with the Secretary General of Amnesty International over the dire situation in the 
 
 Middle East after more than 100 days of war between Israel and Hamas. That's after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:21:32]
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, the Israel-Hamas conflict passed a tragic milestone this week -- 100 days of war. And the toll on civilians gets worse with each 
 
 passing day. The Hamas-run health ministry says nearly 18,000 women and children alone have been killed in Gaza since October 7th. And the head of 
 
 U.N. relief efforts warned hundreds of thousands of Palestinians are starving. Here's what Martin Griffiths told CNN's Christiane Amanpour on 
 
 Monday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARTIN GRIFFITHS, U.N. EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR: It has brought famine so with such incredible speed to the front of the lines. There are, what is 
 
 it, just under 400,000 people in that section that is technically characterized as being at risk of famine, the most extreme category of food 
 
 insecurity. And as you say, many U.N. agencies now today and yesterday are saying of that 400,000, a great majority of them are actually in famine, 
 
 not just at risk of famine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Israel, meanwhile, says Hamas is inflicting psychological torture on the families of hostages after the militant group released a 
 
 succession of videos showing three Israeli hostages. 
 
Well, time now for The Exchange and my conversation with the Amnesty International Secretary General Agnes Callamard. She joins me here in 
 
 Davos. Welcome to the program. So, let's start there in the Middle East. I know you haven't been there in over a year, but you have members of your 
 
 team in Gaza, in Israel, in the West Bank. What are they telling you about what they're seeing currently? 
 
AGNES CALLAMARD, SECRETARY GENERAL, AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL: Well, the situation in Gaza is catastrophic. There is no other word to describe it 
 
 from a humanitarian standpoint. But we need to insist on the fact that this humanitarian crisis is a man-made disaster and is a product of repeated 
 
 violation of international law. 
 
It's a product of repeated bombings of civilians and civilian infrastructures that are indiscriminate and some of which may have actually 
 
 targeted civilians. It is a product of collective punishment. It is a product of denial of humanitarian assistance. It is the product of the fact 
 
 that humanitarian assistance can only get into Gaza through two border points, which is way insufficient. 
 
It means that people in northern Gaza are probably far worse than what we can even imagine. The starvation that the U.N. has warned against is a 
 
 product of policies, it's a product of decisions, and all of these are human rights violations, violations of international law, violations of the 
 
 international legal system. 
 
GOLODRYGA: So, Israel this week said that they are starting a new phase of the war, a less intense phase of the war. Are you hopeful that perhaps 
 
 given that, that more aid will be able to come in? Obviously, not enough that's needed right now, but is that a start to more aid coming in? 
 
CALLAMARD: You know, a resolution regarding humanitarian assistance was passed already several weeks ago and we have not seen progress taking place 
 
 largely because of Israeli impediment to the implementation of that resolution. So, as long as there is no political will to allow humanitarian 
 
 assistance to the -- in the proportion that is required, people will continue to suffer from starvation, from lack of fuel, from lack of water, 
 
 from lack of medical assistance. 
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
The absence or the denial of humanitarian assistance is a human rights violation under international law and could be indeed an indicator of a 
 
 genocidal intent. Yeah, Amnesty International actually spoke out in support of South Africa's suit in the International Court of Justice. And here's 
 
 what you said. 
 
The ICJ hearings over Israel's alleged breaches of the Genocide Convention are a vital step to help protect Palestinian civilians. But you also 
 
 acknowledge that Amnesty International has not made a determination that the situation in Gaza amounts to genocide. So, why step in with the same? 
 
CALLAMARD: Well, we have determined that the risks of genocide are there. They are clearly there because of the incessant bombings of civilians, 
 
 because of the denial of humanitarian assistance because of the collective punishment, because of the forced transfers of population, so the risks of 
 
 genocide are there. 
 
Under the International Genocide Convention, to demonstrate genocide, you need to demonstrate that those harmful acts aim at the destruction in wall 
 
 or part of the population. That's a very high threshold, which requires quite a lot of thinking but mostly evidence which we do not have. 
 
This is why the ICJ in preliminary steps is going to put forward some intermediary measures because it's going to take them years before ruling 
 
 on whether or not Israel is committing the crime of genocide. But the risks of genocide are real and that should be enough to intervene. There is an 
 
 actual obligation placed on governments to intervene to prevent atrocity crimes, including genocide. 
 
The United States in particular, because of its degree of influence over Israel, because of its knowledge of what's happening, has a higher 
 
 responsibility to prevent genocide. They should do everything they can. And in fact, right now they're doing the opposite. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, the United States, we should note that you mentioned, and Germany have both called this lawsuit meritless. In terms of violating 
 
 international law, it's indisputable that that's exactly what Hamas did --
 
CALLAMARD: Yeah, absolutely.
 
GOLODRYGA: -- not only with the horrific October 7th attack, but the more than 136 hostages that remain in Gaza. What more can Amnesty International 
 
 do to put more pressure on the global community, to put more pressure on Hamas to release these hostages? Just yesterday they released another video 
 
 of two hostages they said have been killed. What are you doing? 
 
CALLAMARD: So, Amnesty International has been campaigning for the unconditional release of the hostages. I want to insist on the fact that 
 
 while we campaign for a ceasefire, humanitarian or otherwise, these should not be determining of the release of the hostages. Hamas should release the 
 
 hostages whether or not there is a ceasefire. The -- them, having taken those hostages are war crimes. Them, making use of the photos of the 
 
 hostages in the way they are doing, creating so much pain and duress in the family -- this is unacceptable. 
 
So, Amnesty has been campaigning for the release of the hostages. We have colleagues in Israel who are working with various Israeli families and 
 
 groups. We have a mission going there next week to continue the work with the families of the hostages and indeed with the families of the victims of 
 
 October 7th. For Amnesty International, there is absolutely no doubt that Hamas committed war crimes on October 7th and possible crime against 
 
 humanity. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, and there are families of those hostages and some of the survivors, hostages that are actually here in Davos that will be speaking, 
 
 as well. Agnes Callamard, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
CALLAMARD: Thank you very much. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Next time we'll have you on to talk about Ukraine, as well, because that is another hot spot in the world we've been covering. 
 
CALLAMARD: Yes, absolutely. Thank you so much. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Appreciate your time. Thank you. Well, later this hour, I'll have a conversation with a Ukrainian official about what Ukraine needs to 
 
 put, what needs to be done to put the war to an end. But for now, let's hand it back over to my friend Zain back in New York. 
 
ASHER: All right, Bianna, thank you so much. Okay, one down, many, many more to go. All eyes right now are on New Hampshire where Nikki Haley hopes 
 
 to topple Trump in that state's primary. The big question now is can she do it? We'll discuss that after the break. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HALEY: When you go through something --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:33:02]
 
ASHER: All right, welcome back to "One World". I'm Zain Asher. Back now to the race for the White House. All eyes now focus squarely on New Hampshire 
 
 after Donald Trump's blowout, 30-point victory in Iowa. There is just one week left for what could be a make or break primary for both Haley and 
 
 DeSantis. 
 
The reason why New Hampshire is important, especially for Nikki Haley, is because that is where she has invested the most time, the most energy, the 
 
 most money. She's been courting independence. But her third place finish in Iowa may -- may have zapped some of her momentum heading into New 
 
 Hampshire. 
 
So, the big question is, how will the results from Iowa affect the race ahead? CNN's Gary Tuchman asked New Hampshire voters that very question. 
 
 And I want you to listen to what they had to say specifically about Nikki Haley's performance last night. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNKNOWN: I thought she would be a close second to Donald Trump, but I did not envision her losing by that much, so disappointed in the results. 
 
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Nikki Haley's support -- how do you feel? 
 
UNKNOWN: I'm a little bit more optimistic with tonight, considering how much time and money that Ron DeSantis spent in Iowa. I think she fared 
 
 really well, and then now she's coming to New Hampshire where I think she's going to do very, very well. 
 
TUCHMAN: If Donald Trump is the nominee of the Republican Party, are you all prepared to vote for Donald Trump? 
 
UNKNOWN: Absolutely. Yes.
 
TUCHMAN: Anyone not definitive about voting for Donald Trump? 
 
UNKNOWN: Not definitive. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right, let's bring CNN Senior Political Analyst Ron Brownstein. He's also a senior editor with "The Atlantic". He joins us live now from 
 
 Des Moines, Iowa. Ron, good to see you. So, of course, Nikki Haley is pretty much likely to do very, very well in New Hampshire because she has 
 
 been courting independence. 
 
But the big question I have is, can she actually beat Donald Trump in that state, especially when you think about the fact that Chris Christie is now 
 
 out of the race. She also has been endorsed by New Hampshire's governor. 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
Can she actually do it? 
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Yeah, look, the electorate in New Hampshire is such that she can, whether she will, is something else. 
 
ASHER: It's a different story. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Donald Trump's victory here was, as you say, commanding. He won 98 of 99 counties, and he lost the 99th by a single vote. He improved 
 
 relative to 2016 among virtually every demographic, literally every demographic in the party. But despite that sweeping performance, he still 
 
 showed weakness among the kind of voters that Haley will need to rally in New Hampshire, particularly college-educated voters, you know, independent 
 
 voters, not quite as sold on Trump as core Republicans. 
 
So, there is a path for her to do well in New Hampshire, as, you know, as Gary noted and you noted, she's put more effort there. She's also sharpened 
 
 her argument as she was leaving Iowa, which is something that we've seen happen in races before. She'd been made a pretty tepid case against Trump 
 
 so far, but last night I thought she took a significant step when she basically yoked Trump and Biden together --
 
ASHER: Right.
 
BROWNSTEIN: -- as symbols of a decisive combative past that the country, she said, had to move beyond. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, I mean, is that strategy going to work? I mean, she sort of tied their names together, and in her ads, she sort of reiterated, listen, 
 
 we don't want, nobody wants, in her words, another Biden-Trump mash-up. Is that going to work? I mean, Trump has such a tight grip on the Republican 
 
 Party right now. I'm not sure what she can do to stop that. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, that's why we play the game, right? I mean, we'll find out if it worked. But the fact that she is putting that message on 
 
 television is important. You know, the thing that happened here was that DeSantis and Haley spent enormous sums battering each other. Trump spent 
 
 enormous sums battering the two of them. And between them, I believe they have spent to this point about $1 million on television criticizing Trump. 
 
You saw DeSantis in the last week escalate his criticism of Trump, basically arguing that Trump, you know, he had been making an ideological 
 
 argument against Trump. That had very limited success. You saw how few voters who identify with the MAGA movement, who voted here for Trump last 
 
 night, voted for DeSantis last night, which was a basic statement of failure of DeSantis' attempt to peel them away. 
 
But he moved to an argument that Trump is basically in it for himself, and you can't trust him on those grounds. They're both making a stronger case 
 
 than they have, but as you point out, Trump's hold on particularly rank- and-file Republicans, non-college Republicans, overwhelming. Is any of it going to be enough? You know, the odds are against it, but at least now the 
 
 fight seems a little more joined than it has been till this point. 
 
ASHER: And what about Haley's strategy of, you know, listen, I'm not going to waste my time, you know, debating Ron DeSantis. I think that's an 
 
 interesting strategy because her debates, at least the majority of them, maybe not all of them, but the majority of them have been really what has 
 
 lifted her candidacy quite a bit up until this point. What do you think about that strategy of her just deciding not to debate anymore unless it's 
 
 with Trump or Biden. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, yeah, look, it's not great news for voters, it's not great news for television networks, but I think it is the right move for 
 
 her. You know, debating -- DeSantis wants to create an ideological argument, you know, that she's not conservative enough, and whereas she 
 
 wants a generational contrast, she doesn't get that against DeSantis. 
 
There's really no reason for her to be debating DeSantis at this point, especially that he is probably marginalized in the race after investing so 
 
 much in Iowa and finishing so far behind Trump, even with the support of much of the state's political leadership. 
 
ASHER: Okay, so DeSantis' strategy going forward, I mean, he did okay, I guess, in Iowa. He came in second. It was a very distant second, but, you 
 
 know, he did it. In New Hampshire, he's probably going to be somewhat embarrassed. He's not going to do well in that state, so much so that he's 
 
 making a pit stop in South Carolina before.
 
I mean, candidates don't typically do that. On the night of Iowa, that's when they catch the plane to New Hampshire. He's going to South Carolina to 
 
 send a strong message. Listen, if I can just hang on, if I can just hang on until South Carolina, I'm going to be okay. What do you make of that plan? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Look, again, it makes sense for him, but it's hard to come back from what happened in Iowa. He put all of his eggs in this basket. He had 
 
 the support of the governor. He had the support of all the states, leading social conservatives and radio hosts. He visited all 99 counties. He lost 
 
 by 30 points. 
 
He did not win the constituencies that he targeted. Trump beat him by 30 points among evangelical voters, people identify with the MAGA movement. 
 
 You know, his argument -- DeSantis' argument had been, you can't really trust Trump anymore to deliver the America First agenda. I am more likely 
 
 to get it done. It didn't work. 
 
South Carolina is a -- electorate that should be more favorable for him than New Hampshire. But once you have that kind of blow to your 
 
 credibility, it's really hard to come back. 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
I remember writing in 1996 about a candidate who underperformed in Iowa and New Hampshire, that he was like Bruce Willis in "The Sixth Sense" -- "The 
 
 Sixth Sense", he was dead. He was just the only one who didn't know it. And that may be kind of the case at this point. 
 
ASHER: Ron, you're funny. You're funny. I like that. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: I try.
 
ASHER: Okay, Ron Brownstein. I was going to say Ron DeSantis. Ron Brownstein, excuse me. Ron Brownstein, live for us there. Thank you so 
 
 much. All right, so Ron and I just talked about the candidates who are still in the race, but who is now out of the running? Well, after finishing 
 
 last in the Iowa caucuses, former Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson, says that he is bowing out. The 73-year-old was one of the few candidates who 
 
 are openly critical of Donald Trump, so he's bowing out. He just suspended his campaign. 
 
Also, entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy has been thanking his supporters. This is it for him, as well. After suspending his campaign last night in Des 
 
 Moines, he's now endorsing Donald Trump, saying that he will campaign for him ahead of next week's New Hampshire primary. 
 
All right, fresh off his second place showing in Iowa, Governor Ron DeSantis heads to New Hampshire, where he'll take part in a CNN town hall 
 
 later on Tuesday. You can watch it right here, 9 o'clock in the evening, Eastern Time. 
 
Later on this hour, we'll take a closer look as well at last night's Emmy Awards. We'll talk about the biggest losers, the winners, and the moments 
 
 you just can't miss. For now, I'll hand things back to my friend and colleague, Bianna. 
 
GOLODRYGA: All right, Zain, thank you. Coming up, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy came to Davos to speak to the World Economic Forum and 
 
 asked for continued military support. We'll have more on Ukraine's urgent need for help with a close advisor when we return. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Russian President Vladimir Putin embodies war. That stark assessment from the Ukrainian President as he spoke a short while ago at 
 
 the World Economic Forum here in Davos. Top politicians, business leaders and billionaires from across the world are gathering here to tackle and 
 
 discuss some of the planet's top issues. As the war in Ukraine enters its third year now, Volodymyr Zelenskyy said world power should accept that the 
 
 Russian President will not change. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: In fact, Putin embodies war. We all know that he is the sole reason why various wars and conflicts persist, 
 
 and why all attempts to restore peace have failed. 
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
And he will not change. He will not change. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Earlier I spoke to Rostyslav Shurma, the deputy head of the Ukrainian President's office. I began by asking him about President 
 
 Zelenskyy's speech and how it was received here at Davos. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSTYSLAV SHURMA, DEPUTY HEAD OF THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT'S OFFICE: I think it was received. I've been at all the speeches and all the meetings of the 
 
 President and the big speech and the very small meetings with all the financial leaders. It was well received and supported. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Of course, this is a different context now, given what's going on in the rest of the world. You've got a war in the Middle East, you've 
 
 got elections upcoming in the United States, real questions about whether much needed aid from both the E.U. and the United States is going to get to 
 
 Ukraine as soon as it needs to be. Were there any reassuring comments and commitments that President Zelenskyy received during his time here? 
 
SHURMA: The key thing is that we are absolutely confident in our partners that we will receive all the necessary support. Obviously, we understand 
 
 that there are some delays due to the internal politics, but, as well, we do have some cautions for the short period of time to survive and to 
 
 balance. And we understand that those couple of months that are needed domestically in the E.U., and United States to adopt our decisions, that we 
 
 can survive and we can manage domestically. But finally, we are sure that we will get the backing and support of our strategic partners. 
 
GOLODRYGA: What is Ukraine's most urgent need right now? 
 
SHURMA: Obviously, the most important part is everything about the air defense because you see as the Russia is terrorizing Ukrainian citizens, 
 
 Ukrainian cities, Ukrainian business, Ukrainian industry with the non-stop missile attacks and the only thing that can stop this and protect the 
 
 people, protect the business is air protection systems. Moreover, in Ukraine, I think that the systems like the Patriots, like the NASAMS, like 
 
 the German IRIS T, were very well-tested and showed how efficient they can be from any Russian missiles. So, what we need the most is the air 
 
 protection systems to bring the people back, to keep the business running. 
 
And obviously we need the long-term commitment, long-term financial support, and not only about the direct financial support to the Ukrainian 
 
 budget, but bringing American European international business to Ukraine. Because ultimately, we understand that this big ticket to rebuild Ukraine -
 
 - this is not about the government money. This is about the private investments that can come only with the private business.
 
GOLODRYGA: When you talk to U.S. and European officials and counterparts, is there confidence that a deal will be reached in terms of funding a 
 
 package from the U.S. Congress and from the E.U. cumulatively? We're talking about over $100 billion that Ukraine urgently needs.
 
SHURMA: Once again, I don't want to discuss too much on the domestic politics of our partners, but we are --
 
GOLODRYGA: Are you optimistic? 
 
SHURMA: We are optimistic, and we are absolutely confident on our partners, both in the E.U. and in the United States. First of all, because we feel 
 
 and we see the strong support of the citizens of those countries and those regions. And if the citizens support, the countries will support. 
 
GOLODRYGA: How closely are you watching the U.S. elections? We had our first caucus in Iowa. Donald Trump won within minutes of the results in the 
 
 polls closing. Is there concern, given his statements, that Donald Trump will come back into the Oval Office in terms of Kyiv's perspective? 
 
SHURMA: We are following the elections as anybody, as any other country in the world. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Okay, let me ask you one more question. You're being very diplomatic on this. When Donald Trump says that he can end this war in one 
 
 day, that tells you what? 
 
SHURMA: I think we should be very careful and separate the public political notions within the campaigns and the real actions of the politicians. 
 
GOLODRYGA: So, the actions speak louder than words. 
 
SHURMA: So, we will see what will be the actions. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: Clearly an indication of just how closely, and not only the world, but Ukraine is watching the U.S. elections, and obviously, Vladimir 
 
 Putin paying close attention to the U.S. elections, as well. Well, that leaves it with me in this hour. Live from Davos, I'm Bianna Golodryga. Zain 
 
 will pick things up right after this short break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:52:23]
 
ASHER: All right, the Emmy Awards finally got to take center stage after a four-month delay. "The Bear", with two of its stars seen here along with 
 
 "Beef" and "Succession", all won big on Monday night. The TV Awards had to be pushed back after the actors and the writer's strikes we saw last year. 
 
 The evening, though, also stood out because of its diversity, with black and Asian actors winning major awards, as well. Elizabeth Wagmeister sent 
 
 us this report from Los Angeles. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PETER DINKLAGE, ACTOR: And the Emmy goes to --
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The big winner? 
 
DIKLAGE: "Succession". 
 
WAGMEISTER: Was no spoiler. 
 
UNKNOWN: Bigger, faster, wilder. 
 
WAGMEISTER: "Succession" closed its fourth and final season with Best Drama, Best Actress for Sarah Snook, and Best Actor, Kieran Culkin. 
 
KIERAN CULKIN, ACTOR: Don't pick it up. I couldn't do the button. I wasted all my time hugging everybody. I love you all so much. 
 
WAGMEISTER: Best Comedy was more of a cliffhanger. 
 
UNKNOWN: "The Bears".
 
WAGMEISTER:  "The Bears" big win became more clear as its cast began racking up big wins, including star Jeremy Allen White. Thank you for 
 
 believing in me when I had trouble believing in myself. 
 
UNKNOWN: Are you guys leaving or are you just going to sit there? What'd you say? What'd you say? Say it again! 
 
WAGMEISTER: "Beef" won five Emmys, including Best Limited Series and cast wins for Ali Wong and Steven Yeun, whose character embraced self-worth over 
 
 suicide. 
 
STEVEN YEUN, OUTSTANDING LEAD ACTOR IN A LIMITED SERIES OR MOVIE, "BEEF": Judgment and shame is a lonely place, but compassion and grace is where we 
 
 can all meet. 
 
WAGMEISTER: The Emmys opened with a standing ovation for Christina Applegate, more than two years after announcing she has multiple sclerosis. 
 
CHRISTINA APPLEGATE, ACTOR: Very few of you probably know me from that debut. I'm going to cry more than I've been crying. Baby Burt grizzled on 
 
 "Days of Our Lives". It was really a breakout role. 
 
WAGMEISTER: The Emmy telecast honored groundbreaking shows like "Cheers", "Martin", and "The Sopranos". 
 
CAROL BURNETT, ACTOR: It truly warms my heart to see how well men are doing in comedy now. 
 
WAGMEISTER TV legends Carol Burnett and Marla Gibbs, not afraid to poke fun at what's historically been a man's game. 
 
QUINTA BRUNSON, OUTSTANDING LEAD ACTRESS IN A COMEDY SERIES, "ABBOTT ELEMENTARTY": What's the secret to working in Hollywood for so long? 
 
MARLA GIBBS, ACTOR: Oh, that's easy, baby, the wage gap. 
 
BRUNSON: Oh.
 
WAGMEISTER: Social commentary was a theme throughout.
 
NIECY NASH-BETTS, ACTOR, "DAHMER-MONSTER: THE JEFFREY DAHMER STORY": I accept this award on behalf of every black and brown woman who has gone 
 
 unheard yet over police. 
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
WAGMEISTER: RuPaul, Emmy's most honored person of color, addressing the politics of Drag Queen's story hour after winning Best Reality TV 
 
 Competition. 
 
RUPAUL, HOST, "RUPAUL'S DRAG RACE": Knowledge is power, and if someone tries to restrict your access to power, they are trying to scare you. So, 
 
 listen to a drag queen. 
 
WAGMEISTER: It was also a huge night for the one and only Elton John, who is officially in EGOT. That means that he finally has his Emmy. In addition 
 
 to his Grammy, Oscar, and Tony wins, that puts him in a very exclusive, rare Hollywood club. Now, also a big night for diversity. Five of the 12 
 
 acting awards went to actors of color. That is the first time that has happened since 1991. Zain.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Thank you, Elizabeth. All right, that does it for this hour of "One World". I'm Zain Asher. Thank you so much for watching. Amanpour is up 
 
 next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END