Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: United States Urges Caution As Israel Weighs Response To Iran; Israeli Official: War Cabinet Determined To Respond To Iran; Hunt On For Jurors: 50+ Prospects Dismissed On Day One; Republican Hardliners Warn Johnson Against Ukraine Aid; India Heads to Polls This Week; France Preps for the Olympic Torch Lighting Ceremony in Greece. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired April 16, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:29]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
just ahead: It's not a matter of if but when as Israel vows to retaliate against Iran for this weekend's missile attacks.
 
Thanks, but no thanks. Why dozens of potential jurors were excused on day one of Donald Trump's hush money trial.
 
And a second public stabbing attack in Sydney in just a matter of days. This time at a church caught on live stream during the sermon. We'll have the latest in a live report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Thanks for joining us.
 
With fears growing have a wider war in the Middle East after Iran's brazen, unprecedented aerial assault on Israel over the weekend, neither side seems is willing to heed the world's calls for restraint. And Israeli officials says the country's war Cabinet is determined to respond to the attack and is weighing both diplomatic and military options.
 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is urging the world to stand united against what he calls Iranian aggression. Saying it's a threat to Israel, the entire Middle East, as well as world peace.
 
The head of the IDF says Israel's retaliation is not a matter of if, but when. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LT. GEN. HERZI HALEVI, CHIEF OF THE GENERAL STAFF, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES: We are closely assessing the situation. We remain at our highest level of readiness. Iran will face the consequences for its actions. We will choose our response accordingly.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Iran, meanwhile, remains defiant. The country's deputy foreign minister says it will respond in seconds if Israel "makes another mistake". Officials there say the attack on Israel was necessary and proportionate.
 
The United States and many other countries are urging both Iran and Israel to de-escalate. The White House says U.S. President Joe Biden wants to prevent the situation from becoming a wider regional conflict. Still, he said on Monday, the U.S. is committed to Israel's security.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As you know, Iran launched an unprecedented aerial attack against Israel. And we mounted an unprecedented military effort to defend Israel.
 
Together with our partners, we defeated that attack. The United States is committed to Israel's security.
 
We're committed to a ceasefire that will bring the hostages home and preventing conflict from spreading beyond what is already has.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Leaders of the G7 met virtually Sunday to discuss a diplomatic response to Iran's attack. The White House says the group is unified in their condemnation of Iran. The U.S. says it's working to arrange new sanctions targeting Iran's missile program.
 
Meanwhile, the Gaza ceasefire talks appear to have hit a snag. A U.S. official tells CNN Hamas is now offering to release 20 hostages. But Israel and the U.S. are expecting 40.
 
A second official says Hamas is making unreasonable demands, among them, asking Israel to release more prisoners. One U.S. official says Hamas appears to be changing its offers and demands because the group thinks it's winning.
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks is live in Abu Dhabi with more on the Middle East crisis. Thanks for joining us, Paula.
 
So, what is the latest on Israel considering retaliatory action for Iran's drone attacks over the weekend, and Tehran calling any retaliation a mistake that they will respond to immediately?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rosemary, the war Cabinet has been meeting day -- on Sunday for several hours on Monday for almost three hours. So, we don't know if they've come to a decision, at least, none has been announced. But we do know that there had been splits and differences of opinion into the way that Iran should be dealt with.
 
There does seem to be consensus, though, in the fact that Israel should carry out some kind of response. It's just the timing of that response and the scope of that response at this point.
 <br>[02:05:03]
 
Now, according to one Israeli official, they say that one of the options that is being looked at is potentially a military option against Iran, that does not include casualties. But any direct response against Iran would in itself be setting a new precedent.
 
We know that in the past, Israel has carried out covert operations against individuals or against facilities within Iran, but to have a direct attack in this respect, would set a new precedent and would certainly raise concerns of escalating tensions in the region.
 
So, Israel at this point does have a balance to make. It has the international pressure not to escalate the situation on the one hand, but as we hear from many Israeli officials, on the other hand, it had an unprecedented attack against it by Iran, and it does have to respond in some way and try and re-establish some kind of precedent.
 
So, at this point, we are unclear exactly what the decision will be. We are hearing that also, there could be a diplomatic effort to try and isolate Iran further, that wouldn't be instead of a military option, we understand that, that would be as well as one. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: And Paula, on the hostage and ceasefire negotiations, what's the latest on Hamas, changing the number of hostages it's willing to release in exchange for a ceasefire deal?
 
HANCOCKS: So, one Israeli official, who's close to these negotiations with knowledge of them tells us that this is a significant step backwards in Israel's eyes. They say that Hamas has now said that there are less than 20 hostages that it can offer up for the first phase of this, what was expected to be a three-phase deal in return for a six-week ceasefire.
 
Now, originally, the mediation and the talks had surrounded 40 hostages, and they would be women, children, the elderly, the sick and the wounded. But the Israeli sources saying that, that now Hamas has pulled back from that. They are saying there will be less than 20, and at the same time, they are asking for more Palestinian prisoners to be released in this first phase and more, who are currently serving life sentences to be part of that relief -- release considering these demands to be too much. And we do understand that these talks have hit a wall.
 
Now, the Israeli source says the thinking within Israel is that Yahya Sinwar, the Hamas leader in Gaza is not willing to do a deal at this point. That is the way that they are reading this. And we have heard from a senior Biden administration official recently saying that Hamas has told negotiators and mediators, they simply don't have 40 hostages within that those parameters. That group of people that are still alive, what they are expecting from the U.S. side certainly was that Hamas would make up those numbers either with the younger male hostages that they could release or with the remains of some of those who lost their lives in Gaza.
 
So, at this point, we're hearing it is a serious step backwards. And there is no clear view of how this move -- moves forward at this point. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: Paula Hancocks in Abu Dhabi. Many thanks for joining us. Appreciate it.
 
Well, more bodies have been recovered from Gaza's largest hospital, after Israeli forces withdrew from there two weeks ago. Residents and medical crew tell CNN, 15 more bodies were found around al-Shifa hospital on Monday.
 
A Gaza civil defense spokesperson says hundreds of bodies have been recovered from areas around the hospital complex since the Israeli siege ended on April 1st.
 
Meantime, Israeli military is warning residents in Gaza that the north of the strip is currently, "a dangerous combat zone," urging them not to return. But residents say they want to go back to their homes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOUAD ZAYED, DISPLACED GAZAN (through translator): We can live in tents. We just want to return to our homes. Be on the rubble of our homes, we just want to live. I'm not crying over a bricks and mortar. We're not crying over bricks and mortar or money or trees or anything. What's important is that they let us return to our homes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: CNN has gathered a list of vetted organizations that are on the ground responding in Gaza, and you can find details on how you can help on our web site, cnn.com/impact.
 
Jury selection is now underway in the first ever criminal trial of a former U.S. president.
 <br>[02:10:01]
 
The twice impeach Donald Trump appeared at the New York courthouse Monday, after all of his efforts to get the hush money case dismissed failed. The presumptive Republican presidential nominee is charged with falsifying business records related to the 2016 payment to a former adult film star.
 
But finding a jury to hear the case is turning into a tricky and cumbersome process. Dozens of potential jurors were sent home after admitting they could not be fair and impartial. Questioning gets underway again in the coming hours. CNN's Kara Scannell has more details on day one in court.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: (INAUDIBLE) nothing like this has ever happened before. It's never been anything like it.
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Donald Trump speaking out on a day that saw 96 potential jurors pass through magnetometers to enter the courtroom with Trump. They were sworn in and questioning began. A few minutes later, at least 50 prospective jurors were excused, because they told the judge they could not be fair and impartial. Of those who remained, three question by the judge listed the New York Times and CNN as their sources of news.
 
None said they had read any books by Michael Cohen or Trump. And none of them said they worked or volunteered for any pro-Trump or anti Trump groups. Just nine members of today's jury pool were questioned and not dismissed by the time Court adjourned.
 
Trump faces 34 felony counts of falsifying business records. The Manhattan district attorney Alvin Bragg says the former president attempted to cover up payments made to adult film actress Stormy Daniels just before the 2016 election, trying to stop her from speaking out about the alleged affair with Trump.
 
Judge Juan Merchan started the day by denying a motion from Trump's lawyers to recuse himself. As attorneys debated, Judge Juan Merchan said he would not allow the infamous Access Hollywood tape to be shown, or video of Trump's deposition in the E. Jean Carroll lawsuit that found him liable for defamation.
 
Karen McDougal, a model who says she had an affair with Trump in 2006 and was paid $150,000 to keep quiet about it will be allowed to testify.
 
Attorneys also argued about how much the jury can be told about Michael Cohen's crimes.
 
MICHAEL COHEN, FORMER LAWYER TO DONALD TRUMP: I did it at the direction of, in concert with, and for the benefit of Donald J. Trump.
 
SCANNELL (voice over): The credibility of Trump's former fixer, who admitted he orchestrated the hush money payment to Stormy Daniels will be one of the most fought over elements of the case.
 
Trump, for his part, entered very few words into the court record. He could sometimes be seen leaning back in his chair with his arms folded and his eyes appear to be closed for several minutes.
 
When he was introduced as the defendant, Trump turned around and gave the potential jurors a tight-lipped smirk. Once jury selection began, Trump was active at times conferring with his lawyer and holding the questionnaire up to read as the judge questioned jurors.
 
Prosecutors also asked the judge to find Trump for social media posts, attacking witnesses involved in the case, saying he violated a gag order.
 
The judge scheduled a hearing for next week to settle that matter. The trial is expected to last six to eight weeks. It may be the only case against Trump to face a jury before the 2024 election. The presumptive Republican nominee complaining about the judge as he walked out of the courtroom.
 
TRUMP: The judge, of course, is not going to allow us. He's a great conflicted judge. And he's not going to allow us to go to that. He won't allow me to leave here for a half a day, go to D.C. and go before the United States Supreme Court, because he thinks he is superior.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SCANNELL (on camera): The judge denied Trump's request to skip the trial next week so he could attend oral arguments in Washington, D.C., when the U.S. Supreme Court will hear his arguments that he should be protected by presidential immunity in the federal case in Washington.
 
On Tuesday, all parties will be back in court and the judge will continue to question the jurors until they have 12 jurors and six alternates Kara Scannell, CNN, New York.
 
CHURCH: Joey Jackson is a CNN legal analyst and criminal defense attorney. He joins me now from New York. Good to have you with us.
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Great to be here, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: Donald Trump's historic criminal trial got underway Monday in Manhattan. The first order of business jury selection for his hush money trial, narrowing down that long list of prospective jurors to the 12 who will ultimately determine Trump's fate. But by the end of the day, not even one juror was selected. So, how long could this take and what are the challenges ahead in this type of selection process.
 
JACKSON: Yes. So, certainly many challenges. I think the number one challenge is to pick a jury that is fair and impartial. And I think they'll get that done. Remember there was polling done by the Trump team to give the indication that they could not get there, could not get where to a fair jury.
 
There was some suggestion, as we looked there at the 500 potential jurors, 100 at a time to be vetted, and ultimately to 12 and the six alternates.
 <br>[02:15:04]
 
But there was polling that was done that showed that there was a heavy voting in this particular jurisdiction in Manhattan, for Hillary Clinton in 2016. And, of course, for Biden in 2020.
 
But that doesn't really end the inquiry. I think what I was encouraged by, even though they don't have any jurors, Rosemary, is that, you know, initially, the judge asked whether this jury is for you, and could you be fair and 50 up the 96 for excused immediately. And that really means that the judge is really prone to allowing for fairness.
 
Usually, and the reason I say that is when people say, no -- I can't be fair, I'm not going to do it, I want to leave, the judge will ask a number of questions to try to rehabilitate those jurors such that they can stay.
 
In this instance, the judge just excused them, I think they'll get down to the nitty gritty with the 36 or so that remain. They'll ask probing questions. And if those jurors can't, they'll excuse them, and if they can't, they will empower them. And, of course, another panel enter.
 
So, yes, many challenges I think will be phased in getting a jury, but there is no indication that they will not get there and that Mr. Trump will not receive a fair trial, and that is proof of guilt or innocence would be established beyond the reasonable doubt.
 
CHURCH: And Trump has pleaded not guilty to 34 counts of falsifying business records in this case. And soon, we will hear more from witnesses set to take the stand. Michael Cohen, Stormy Daniels, Karen McDougal, Hope Hicks, and David Pecker, which will likely be the most critical witnesses? Gen each one, of course, brings their own baggage and challenges, right?
 
JACKSON: There is no question right that there are in any case witnesses that are challenging and witnesses that have baggage. What I'm looking for beyond the witnesses, though, Rosemary, is I'm looking for corroboration. What does that mean, as we look there, at the cast of witnesses, Michael Cohen, Stormy Daniels, Hope Hicks, David Pecker, Karen McDougal, Kellyanne Conway, as you noted.
 
But, irrespective of what they say, what exists, that back -- backs up what they say. For example, Michael Cohen is going to give a narrative. We know he's a convicted felon, we know we spend time in jail, we know they're going to attack him for being a liar.
 
However, if you have tax text messages that give the indication that there were communications about this scheme, if you have e-mails that give the indication that there was an exchange about this scheme. If you have ledgers, right? If you have invoices, if you have checks that otherwise established that this occurred, or we really depending upon the witness, or we depending upon the trail of information that supports what the witnesses is saying?
 
So, at the end of the day, the witnesses are compelling. But what's even more compelling is the evidence, prosecutors will introduce that back up what the witness testimony is, and that's what I'm really looking for.
 
CHURCH: And another person we might hear from, Trump has actually said himself that he will testify. How wise is that? How likely is it?
 
JACKSON: So, you know, he said, Mr. Trump, that he wants to speak in previous cases, perhaps, he's not. He says a lot of things. He's in the midst of a campaign. You know, I just don't know that it's wise in this particular case. There is a lot again, of documentary evidence, right?
 
The establishment of the fact that there were doctored records, you know, to the extent that they will false entries, it's either false or it's not. There is a paper trail or it's not. There is an indication that he tried to conceal from the public, damaging information or there is not.
 
And the reason it's problematic that he testifies not only because he can give a narrative that would be contrary to the facts. But if a judge, right? Deems his testimony that is, Mr. Trump, the former presidents to be false, he could hold it against him at the time of sentencing in the event of a conviction.
 
Everyone deserves a presumption of innocence. Mr. Trump certainly does. He's innocent as we speak. In the event, however, he's convicted, the judge can use that to sentence him. And remember, right, although people are saying conventional wisdom, he'll get no jail time. It's only probation. I'm not sure that that's true.
 
This is a felony offence. It could be sentenced up to four years. And if you lie, judges, I can tell you from past experience, do not like that. And it could lead to a prison term. Imagine the constitutional implications if he's elected, but he's in prison. It could happen.
 
CHURCH: Extraordinary. Joey Jackson, appreciate to your legal analysis as always. Thanks for joining us.
 
JACKSON: Thank you so much, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: Still to come, a stabbing at a Sydney Church caught on live stream during the sermon followed by clashes outside the church. We have the latest during the investigation. Back with that and more in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:22:00]
 
CHURCH: Just days after the mass stabbing at a Sydney shopping mall, police in Australia are investigating another stabbing attack in the city. This time, at a church, in what authorities are calling a terrorist act.
 
It was caught on the church's live stream. The attacker is soon approaching the lectern and stabbing the bishop as he was delivering a sermon. Both the bishop and a parish priest were injured, but are expected to recover.
 
Parishioners were able to restrain the attacker until police arrived. They say he's 16 years old and not on any terror watch list.
 
CNN's Anna Coren is in Hong Kong. She joins us now with more on the attack. Good to see you, Anna.
 
So, what more are you learning about this latest stabbing in Australia, and of course, the riots that followed? ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it was extraordinary what took place overnight in Wakeley, in Sydney's western suburbs. But as you say, Rosemary, this involves a 16-year-old, you know, he stabbed this bishop in the face with a knife at Assyrian Orthodox church.
 
The bishop he was giving a sermon at the Christ the Good Shepherd Church. And as you mentioned, it was being live streamed.
 
So, this was all caught on camera. People inside the church, they immediately race forward to try to protect the bishop. There was a priest who tried to intervene, he was also injured. But this teenager, the 16-year-old he was tackled to the ground by parishioners, and there is a video that shows him then smiling, as he's being pinned down by one of the parishioners whilst they are condemning him.
 
Police have said that this was an act of religious motivated extremism that has been labelled a terror incident. It's believed that the attacker said something to the bishop before repeatedly stabbing him. Police are yet to reveal what was said. But that is one of the reasons why this has been declared a terror incident.
 
Now, what happened next outside the church, it really big as belief. Hundreds of people gathered, and then, riots broke out, as the crowd began attacking the police. They were throwing bricks, chunks of concrete, fence pilings, police and paramedics, they were holed up inside the church for something like 3-1/2 hours.
 
We understand that police were injured on the scene, there were vehicles, 20 vehicles that were damaged -- police vehicles. And then, at least 30 people treated for injuries.
 
The riot squad had to be called in along with the Tactical Operations Unit. And look, it's worth noting, Rosemary, for our wider audience that western Sydney and some of these suburbs, you know, they are well known for their gang violence.
 
The Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, he addressed the media this morning, he condemned the attack and the ensuing violence on the police.
 <br>[02:25:05]
 
Let's take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER OF AUSTRALIA: This is a disturbing incident. There is no place for violence in our community. There is no place for violent extremism. We are a peace-loving nation. This is a time to unite, not divide as a community, and as a country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: And, of course, it comes just days after a 40-year-old man went on to on a stabbing rampage inside Westfield shopping center in Bondi Junction in Sydney and Sydneysiders are really just reeling from this attack.
 
We understand the attacker, who suffered decades of mental illness. He killed five women and a male security guard. Six others are in hospital, recovering from their injuries including a 9-month-old baby, who remains in a serious condition. Her 38-year-old mother was stabbed to death that Saturday afternoon.
 
The motive of the attacker, it remains unknown, Rosemary. The reason being the -- there was a very brave female police officer, who pursued the attacker, as she went after him by herself. She shot him dead. But authorities do believe that this 40-year-old man was targeting women. Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: They are shocking details. Anna Coren, joining us live from Hong Kong, with the latest on both those stabbings. Many thanks.
 
We're turning now to the war in Ukraine. And you are looking at what remains of the village, Robertyne, in southeast Ukraine, after intense and prolonged fighting.
 
Russia has made the decision to tactically leave the key village. That's according to a Russian appointed official. This, as Ukraine's president makes a new appeal to allies to help boost air defenses, to protect against Russian strikes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): The heads in the skies above Ukraine sound identical to those over the Middle East. The impact of ballistic missiles, if they are not intercepted, is the same everywhere. European skies could have received the same level of protection long ago, if Ukraine had received similar full support from its partners in intercepting drones and missiles.
 
Terror must be defeated completely and everywhere. Not more in some places and less than others.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Mr. Zelenskyy's address comes in the face of repeated Russian attacks on Ukrainian infrastructure, particularly, power plants.
 
And you are looking at damage in Kharkiv, where more than 200,000 people were left without power, after attacks near the end of last week.
 
U.S. House Republicans say they will hurry to take up pro-Israel and anti-Iran bills for a vote after Iran's bombardment of Israel over the weekend. But the party's far right members are continuing to stonewall any new security aid for Ukraine.
 
CNN's Manu Raju brings us the latest from Capitol Hill.
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Speaker Johnson made his long-awaited move on providing aid to Ukraine, aid to Israel, aid to Taiwan. Recall, about two months ago, the Senate passed a $95 billion aid package. Johnson essentially sidelined that bill because it did not include border security measures.
 
Republicans had scuttled a bipartisan border security plan that had been cut in the Senate. They kill that plan, they said it not go far enough in the election year politics, of course, help deal with the -- scuttle that plan as well.
 
But nevertheless, now the question is what will Johnson do, given Ukraine has been clamoring for some support, and Israel too. In the aftermath of the Iranian attacks this past week, getting more urgency among Israel supporters in the Republican conference, in particular, to move ahead with aid to Israel.
 
So, what did Johnson ultimately decide to do? He plans to move on separate pieces of legislation: aid to Israel, aid to Ukraine, aid to Taiwan, and also, some other national security measures. Four different plans.
 
Now, the ultimate questions, will they ultimately be cobbled together in one package and sent back to the Senate for final action here? That is some of the process is uncertain, but it's significant, because he's being warned by Republican hardliners not to tie any aid to Israel to any aid to Ukraine.
 
Those hardliners say, there should not be another dime of money spent for aid to Ukraine. And that has raised questions about whether Johnson can hang on amid threats from one congressman in particular, Marjorie Taylor Greene, that he could lose his job if he moves ahead with aide to Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REP. MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE (R-GA): He is definitely not going to be Speaker next Congress if we're lucky enough to have the majority. And I think that is widely held belief throughout the conference.
 
RAJU: Is he going to be Speaker for the rest of this Congress, do you think?
 <br>[02:30:02]
 
GREENE: That is to be determined.
 <br>[02:30:00]
 
REP. ELI CRANE (R-AZ): I think the timing is -- would be pretty bad to have a change in command. So I am not really looking at that right now.
 
REP. DERRICK VAN ORDEN, (R-WI): It would be a terrible, terrible idea to vacate Speaker Johnson's speakership over what is coming up in the next few days. It would be a very bad idea, it would be a very bad idea for the Republican conference, it would be a very bad idea for the House Representatives writ large and for the nation. RAJU: And of course, just one member, that's all it takes to actually call for a vote seeking the speaker's ouster here. The question is, will -- if Marjorie Taylor Greene does go this route, will there be enough support to drive him from the speakership. A number of Democrats are indicating that they will vote to save Mike Johnson, especially if they move -- if he moves ahead on a Ukraine aid package that is similar to the plan that did pass the Senate.
 
So, some of the details are still yet to be hashed out here because the -- no legislation has been unveiled. The speaker did say that there would be 72 hours before a final vote, he predicted that could happen by Friday evening. So a lot of questions here, but a big -- potentially very significant move, potentially for the future, for Ukraine, but also for his own speakership. Can he hang on amid this revolt among the right?
 
Manu Raju, CNN, Capitol Hill.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Still to come, the world's largest democracy heads to the polls this week. We will show you the mood in the country ahead of the key vote.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. India is gearing up for its upcoming general election. The world's biggest democratic exercise with nearly one billion people are eligible to vote. Polling will begin on Friday and unfolding seven phases ending on June 1st. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seeking a rare third consecutive term. Under Modi, India has become the fastest growing major economy, but is also become increasingly polarized along religious line.
 
Rahul Gandhi is the face of the Congress Party that has formed an alliance with other opposition leaders in an effort to prevent another Modi win. CNN's Will Ripley visits a key city in northern India and reports on what is at stake for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Varanasi, an ancient city heaving with humanity.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): If India had a Bible Belt, this could be its capital. Religion woven into the fabric of life here like the rickshaws weaving in and out of traffic, with the tang of turmeric, cumin and coriander from the Gola Dinanath Spice Market, hundreds of years old.
 
RIPLEY: I'm Will.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Here, I meet a shopkeeper.
 
RIPLEY: Nice to meet you.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Akash Jaiswal, who is full of praise for India's popular Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
RIPLEY: What makes him different from others?
 
AKASH JAISWAL, RESIDENT: What he says, he has done.
 
RIPLEY: When you hear him speak, do you feel like he is speaking to you and your like?
 
Yeah, yeah, he is -- because he is -- he speaks with heart.
 
JAISWAL: The heart of a very smart politician. Modi was not born here. He chose to represent this Hindu spiritual center. Leading up to the elections, Modi inaugurated a temple dedicated to Lord Ram, one of Hinduism's most revered deities, built on the site of a Muslim mosque demolished decades ago by Hindu hardliners.
 
NARENDRA MODI, PRIME MINISTER OF INDIA (through translator): Ram is India's faith; Ram is India's foundation; Ram is India's thought.
 
RIPLEY: He is blurring the line between religion and politics, projecting himself as the head priest, the protector, the creator of a Hindu-first nation.
 
SABA NAQVI, POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Prime Minister Modi does something which has not happened before in the Indian politics, among all our prime ministers. He willfully creates a cult of his own personality.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Many actually worship Modi himself, almost like a living God, but not every Hindu here is a believer. Vishwambhar Nath Mishra is head priest of a prominent local temple and it sits alongside Hinduism's holiest river, the Ganges. Every day, he bathes in these heavily polluted holy waters. He says the environment and also the political climate has drastically deteriorated during Modi's first decade in power. He is widely expected to win a third five-year term.
 
RIPLEY: Have you ever seen this city so divided, so polarized?
 
VISHWAMBHAR NATH MISHRA, HEAD PRIEST, SANKAT MOCHAN TEMPLE: This is what we call it as not the religious center. It is basically a spiritual center. So this unique fabric has a strained condition now and we have a fear that this fabric may break.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): That's what happened back in 2002 when Modi was chief minister of the Indian western state of Gujarat, religious riots there killed more than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims. And many say Modi is stoking the fires of religious tensions, empowering the Hindu majority and marginalizing the Muslim minority.
 
SANA SABAH, RESIDENT: The first term that came to my mind was scary.
 
RIPLEY: Scary?
 
SABAH: Yeah, it is scary.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): I sat down Sana Sabah as she was celebrating the end of Ramadan with her family, all of them worrying if this is the end of a secular Indian government and will it mean the end of their religious and civil rights.
 
SABAH: Where is freedom of somebody just wearing a skullcap, minding his own business, buying mutton, whatever he wants to, and then heading home and then dying on the way.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): And there are other things she worries about, like high youth unemployment, low wages, widespread poverty, not to mention corruption. But polls still show Modi's popularity is pushing 80 percent.
 
RIPLEY: Modi's own path from poverty to politics is part of his appeal for a lot of people here in India. His official biography says he is the middle son of a chaiwala, tea seller, a humble upbringing that he says helps them understand the problems plaguing everyday people.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Modi says his programs put more food on their tables, plus the government hands out cash and cooking gas, and they provided water and power and sanitation services. Modi is also getting a lot of respect abroad.
 
DILEEP PATEL, VARANASI BJP PRESIDENT (through translator): Today, India is strong, capable, and self-reliant under the prime minister's leadership.
 
(CROWN CHEERING)
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): In Modi's India, majority rules and he is expected to win a commanding majority of India's nearly one billion eligible voters, the biggest democratic election in the history of mankind, making Modi one of the most popular and powerful leaders in the world, even if some feel they may be left behind.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Varanasi, India.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:41:25]
 
CHURCH: Just over 100 days until the Paris Summer Olympics are here and French officials are coming up with an alternate plan for the opening ceremony, in case of security issues. The opening ceremony is set to take place on the River Seine, but President Emmanuel Macron says the government will have multiple contingency plans, options include moving the ceremony to Central Paris near the Eiffel Tower or to a stadium.
 
Paris has been working on cleaning up the river in an attempt to make it safe for swimming, but sewer problems delayed those plans. And in the coming hours, the official countdown to the Paris summer games will kick off in Greece with the lighting of the Olympic torch.
 
Crews finalized the ceremony yesterday at a dress rehearsal in ancient Olympia. An actress will reflect the sun's rays with a mirror to light the torch. But if the weather is bad, officials will use the practice torch from Monday's rehearsal. It will mark the start of a relay that will end in Paris on July 26, the scheduled start of the summer games.
 
And thanks so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. "World Sport" is coming up next. Then, I will be back in about 15 minutes with more "CNN Newsroom." Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[03:00:00]