Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Apple Accused of Illegally Monopolizing the Smartphone Market in New Lawsuit; Hong Kong Passes Second National Security Law, Widening Crackdown Powers and Aligning City More Closely with Mainland China; 200 Waiters Race in the Streets of Paris, Trays in Hand. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired March 26, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to CNN 10, the best 10 minutes in news. I`m Coy. I`ve got a full show for you today. But first, I`m 
 
 curious, how many of you out there have an iPhone?
 
Did you know that more than 2 billion have been sold since the first iPhone was released? Apple has a solid grip on more than 20% of the worldwide 
 
 smartphone market. But just like the good old board game Monopoly, when someone collects a ton of the game pieces, it`s tough to go unnoticed.
 
And the Department of Justice is definitely taking notice of Apple and its business practices. The DOJ filed a lawsuit last week alongside more than a 
 
 dozen states against the tech giant. They`re accusing the company of illegally monopolizing the smartphone market and violating federal 
 
 antitrust laws.
 
CNN`s Brian Todd breaks down this case for us with a look at the iconic brand`s unique strategies which may be weeding out its competitors.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It`s one of the most iconic, powerful brands in the world. Now worth more than $2.5 trillion. It`s sold 
 
 more than a billion iPhones worldwide.
 
And Apple`s ability to maintain that hold on the marketplace has put it squarely in the crosshairs of the U.S. Justice Department. Today, Justice 
 
 filing a sweeping antitrust lawsuit against Apple, accusing the tech giant of illegally monopolizing the smartphone market.
 
MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: For consumers, that has meant fewer choices, higher prices and fees, lower quality smartphones, apps and 
 
 accessories, and less innovation from Apple and its competitors.
 
TODD (voice-over): At the heart of the antitrust suit, the allegation that Apple has set up its own closed ecosystem that limits Apple users to only 
 
 using Apple products. That`s also known as the walled garden. At the center of the walled garden, the iPhone.
 
TRIPP MICKLE, TECHNOLOGY REPORTER, NEW YORK TIMES: And that`s really, you know, the centerpiece of Apple`s empire. It`s what has made it such a 
 
 dominant company for so long.
 
TODD (voice-over): One example of unfair practices alleged by the Justice Department, that Apple degrades the text that iPhones receive from Android 
 
 phones. Those green texts iPhones get from non-iPhones.
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: The Justice Department says that messages that are sent between iPhones are more secure because they`re 
 
 encrypted. But when you`re messaging with a non-iPhone user, that those messages are not encrypted and thus less secure.
 
TODD: Also a difference in picture quality. A picture sent from an Android to an iPhone could be of lesser quality.
 
FUNG: Yeah, according to the Justice Department, when those messages or images get exchanged, the quality is less, you know, images might look 
 
 grainier, videos might look grainier.
 
TODD (voice-over): Another example of what the Justice Department calls Apple`s, quote, "exclusionary conduct". These days, good luck trying to use 
 
 anything but Apple Pay if you`re using your phone at the checkout counter.
 
GARLAND: Apple has blocked third-party developers from creating competing digital wallets on the iPhone. They use what is known as tap-to-pay 
 
 functionality.
 
TODD (voice-over): And Justice says Apple watches only work well with iPhones, forcing owners to buy nothing but Apple phones. The Justice 
 
 Department says unlocking more competition for Apple products will lead to more innovation and lower prices for consumers.
 
FUNG: On the other hand, Apple says, look, if the Justice Department gets its way, then that effectively makes Apple devices much more like Android 
 
 devices, and consumers don`t want that.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Our next story takes us to Hong Kong, a unique city with a complex history, which I`ll try to sum up quickly, but I encourage you to take a 
 
 look at this history yourself to better understand the situation happening today. 
 
Hong Kong was once controlled by the British Empire, but the city was handed over to China in 1997 under a plan known as One Country, Two 
 
 Systems. This idea basically said Hong Kong would join communist China, but maintain its established capitalist economic system and democratic 
 
 political system.
 
But in recent years, that has started to change, and pretty dramatically. In 2020, China`s central government passed a sweeping national security law 
 
 following mass pro-democracy protests. That law dramatically broadened the power that China`s communist ruling party had over the territory.
 
Just last week, Hong Kong`s legislature passed another sweeping law detailing 39 new national security crimes. Our Kristie Lu Stout is here to 
 
 break it all down for us.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Article 23 is Hong Kong`s controversial new homegrown security legislation. It includes a range of 
 
 new national security crimes, including treason, espionage, external interference and disclosure of state secrets. 
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): It carries sentences of 10 years for crimes linked to state secrets and sedition, 20 years for espionage and up to life in 
 
 prison for treason, insurrection, sabotage and mutiny.
 
Officials point out that many Western countries have similar legislation and say it will fill loopholes in the sweeping national security law 
 
 imposed by Beijing in 2020 after mass anti-government protests.
 
JOHN LEE, HONG KONG CHIEF EXECUTIVE: We still have to watch out for potential sabotage, undercurrents that try to create troubles.
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): In 2020 article 23 was shelved after an attempt to enact it drew half a million residents onto the streets in protest. No such 
 
 scenes of opposition are expected this time around.
 
Beijing`s national security crackdown has transformed Hong Kong. Dozens of political opponents have been arrested, civil society groups disbanded and 
 
 outspoken media outlets shut down. Former opposition lawmaker Emily Lau was among the protesters in 2003. She`s no longer marching but has a message 
 
 for Beijing.
 
EMILY LAU, FORMER OPPOSITION LAWMAKER: I just want to tell Beijing there`s no need for such stern treatment. I don`t think Hong Kong will go back to 
 
 the turbulent past and I think people want to look forward to a safe and peaceful and free future. We want Hong Kong to prosper. We are part of 
 
 China. I`ve never disputed that but we are different from the rest of China but the difference is getting less and less which is very sad. 
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): Critics say the law could have deep ramifications for the city status as a global business hub. The U.S. State Department 
 
 says it is concerned by the quote, "Broad and vague definitions of state secrets and external interference that could be used to eliminate dissent 
 
 through the fear of arrest and detention."
 
The Hong Kong government rejects that criticism as biased and misleading with Security Secretary Chris Tang pointing out there is strong public 
 
 support.
 
CHRIS TANG, HONG KONG SECRETARY OF SECURITY (through translation): We received 98.6 percent support and positive feedback.
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): But on the streets --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translated text): I don`t want to answer.
 
LU STOUT (voice-over): -- it`s hard to tell.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): We won`t discuss things, very sensitive.
 
LU STOUT: Article 23.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: Pop quiz hotshot. Why is Paris originally known as the City of Light? 
 
Architecture, romance, education, or lantern?
 
If your answer is lanterns, keep shining bright. In an effort to reduce crime rates back in the 1600s, King Louis XIV ordered nearly 3,000 street 
 
 lanterns to be illuminated in the streets of Paris, giving it the title City of Light. 
 
Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, takes us to the City of Light, Paris, where we`re illuminating an unusual race, where hundreds of Parisian 
 
 restaurant waiters dash around corners and over cobblestones, all while holding trays loaded with items that they cannot drop.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is no ordinary race. In fact, there`s no running allowed. The 1.2-mile competition across Paris is exclusively for the 
 
 city`s waiters, according to Reuters. And there are a few more rules. You must carry a tray holding a croissant, a cup of coffee and a glass of water 
 
 for the whole route. Absolutely no water can be spilled, and you can only hold the tray with one hand.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translation): I`m not expecting to come first because my cardio isn`t the best, but I`m hoping at least that my tray is 
 
 in good condition when I get to the finish line. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Some 200 waiters took part in the historic race, which was first held in 1914. But this is the first time the event has taken 
 
 place since 2011, because of a lack of funding. So what`s the secret to winning?
 
SAMY LAMROUS, MEN`S WINNER (through translation): It`s stamina. 
 
PAULINE VAN WYMEERSCH, WOMEN`S WINNER (through translation): Yes, stamina, yes. You feel it at the end. But in our line of work, we do this for 10 to 
 
 12 hours. We have the stamina. We know how to hold the tray. So there you go.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: All right, we are running out of time here, but we can`t leave without some special recognition and shout-outs. We are sending a shout-out 
 
 to the Bulldogs at Chamblee Middle School in Chamblee, Georgia. Rise up. We see you and we appreciate you.
 
Also, shout-out to Ralston High School in Omaha, Nebraska. Go Rams! 
 
Remember, tomorrow is #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word in the comments section 
 
 of my most recent post, with the definition, your school, teacher, mascot, if you`d like. And we`re going to choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s 
 
 show.
 
I`m Coy, I`ll see you tomorrow.
 
END