Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: CNN Covers Election Night In America. Aired 11p-12a ET

Aired November 05, 2024 - 23:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[23:00:00]
 
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This is a state -- two elections in a row by ballpark 20,000 votes. Trump's lead is 26,000 votes right there. Again, battleground Wisconsin, very close. Vice President's team scratching to try to find votes. And Michigan, she's leading in Michigan. Only 30% of the vote there coming in. So, to me, as I look at this map, the blue wall states become paramount, Jake.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Indeed. Voting is about to end in four states out west. That includes the biggest prize of all, California, which has 54 of the 78 electoral votes at stake this hour.
 
We have a projection for you now. CNN can project that Kamala Harris will win the state of California. With those 54 electoral votes, not unexpected, Harris will win California. CNN is also projecting the Donald Trump will win the state of Idaho with its four electoral votes. So, what does that mean for the electoral -- too early to call. We have Washington State with 12 electoral votes and Oregon with eight electoral votes. Two electoral. Too early to go.
 
Let's go to the electoral map right now. Donald Trump with 211 electoral votes at this hour. Kamala Harris cracks 100, now has 145 electoral votes. Two hundred and seventy electoral votes are needed to win. Donald Trump is 59 electoral votes away from that.
 
Let's look at these battleground states now. Arizona, Donald Trump in the lead there, 49.6%. Kamala Harris right behind him with 49.5%. Donald Trump has a 2,356 vote-lead with 51% of the estimated vote in from Arizona.
 
Wisconsin, Donald Trump in the lead there too, 49.9% of the vote. Kamala Harris is 48.4%. Donald Trump has a 28,576 vote-lead with an estimated 59% of the estimated vote in from the Badger State.
 
In the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Donald Trump maintaining his lead. He's at 50.7% of the vote. Kamala Harris with 48.2% of the vote. Donald Trump with a 119,411 vote-lead with 68% of the estimated vote in from Pennsylvania.
 
In Georgia, Donald Trump is still in the lead there, 51% of the vote. Kamala Harris with 48.2% of the vote. Donald Trump with a 136,328 vote-lead. That is with 88% of the estimated vote in from the state of Georgia. In North Carolina, another battleground where Donald Trump leads 50.8% of the vote. Kamala Harris has 47.8% of the vote. Donald Trump has a 145,388 vote-lead over Kamala Harris right now with an estimated 85% of the vote in from the Tar Heel State.
 
In battleground Michigan, Kamala Harris in the lead. She has 51.3% of the vote. Donald Trump has 46.9%. Kamala Harris is 74,838 votes ahead of Donald Trump, but that's less than a third of the vote counted there. Thirty percent of the estimated vote in from the state of Michigan.
 
In the Commonwealth of Virginia, Kamala Harris in the lead there still, but narrowly so, 50.1% of the vote. Donald Trump has 48% of the vote. Kamala Harris with a 73,375 vote-lead. That is with 78% of the estimated vote in from the Commonwealth of Virginia.
 
In New Mexico, Harris leads there, too, 52.6% of the vote. Donald Trump with 45.5% of the vote. That is with an estimated 69% of the vote in. Harris with a roughly 45 -- 43,000 vote lead.
 
Let's go now to Abby Phillip, who is at Harris Campaign headquarters in Washington, D.C, at the campus of Howard University. Abby, what are you hearing from the Harris Campaign, if anything?
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN ANCHOR AND SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Jake, we actually just got a pretty significant update from the Harris campaign manager, Jen O'Malley Dillon, who sent out a memo to her staff tonight laying out what they see ahead in the coming days and hours. My colleague, Jeff Zeleny, is here with me. The memo essentially says, Jake, that the returns are coming in slowly. They still see their path, but that path is largely going to be through the blue wall, as Jeff and I were just discussing.
 
The key point that Jen O'Malley Dillon is making is that this is a close race. This is the close race that they have been expecting. She says to her staff, we are built for this, let's finish the night out, we will see you tomorrow. They are not expecting this to be wrapped up tonight.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: They are not because the margins are so small. And just reading from that memo, should we have known all along our clearest path to 270 was to the blue wall states. And again, they point out the cities we were talking about. Milwaukee, Detroit and, of course, Philadelphia.
 
Abby, a central question hanging over all of this and indeed the crowd here waiting behind us, is Vice President Harris going to address the crowd? That is a possibility. We will see in the coming days. As we hear some helicopters overhead here, we will see. But the bottom line is they know this is a close race. This is going to be not resolved tonight in their eyes.
 <br>[23:04:58]
 
PHILLIP: Yeah. Jeff, this is a critical moment, I think, for that Harris campaign to show where they get to 270. And Jake, it looks like they are not foreclosing really on anything in the map right now that is not called. They're still waiting for the polls to close in parts of the Sun Belt, for those results to come trickling in. But again, it's the blue wall again. It is Pennsylvania, it is Wisconsin, and it is Michigan where the best chances are for Harris to get to that 270 that she needs to become president of the United States.
 
TAPPER: All right. Abby Phillip and Jeff Zeleny, thanks so much. Let's go to John King at the magic wall. John, explain the theory of the case for the Harris campaign right now, if you would.
 
KING: Right. You heard Jeff and Abby emphasizing even the campaign saying, essentially, they don't rule out any other possibilities, but we're really banking on the blue wall. Well, at the moment, as we speak, two of the three blue wall states, that's Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin, two of the three are red. We're not done, we're not done, but two of the three are red. Why is that significant?
 
Well, let's look at the Sun Belt states. And again, Harris campaign is not ruling this out. But let's show this here. Donald Trump with 142,000 votes ahead in North Carolina. I can show you the live outstanding votes. And when I show you the live outstanding votes, you will see some pretty big circles in the blue areas, large metropolitan areas and suburban areas, where the Democrats do quite well.
 
I just want to say, at 85% reporting statewide, an 142,000 vote-lead, is it mathematically possible or enough votes out there? Yes. When you get to this point in an election and a state Donald Trump won twice, you start to think, okay, this looks like it did in 2016 and in 2020. It looks more like 2016 than it did in 2020, to be honest with you.
 
But you look at it, if you're in the Harris campaign, you're calling all these counties and you're trying to figure out, you know, how many votes are out, what percentage are we getting. But if you're looking at the North Carolina map, I'd rather be Donald Trump than the vice president of the United States right now.
 
So, then you bring up the Georgia map. And again, this one, I'll say this again, I'm a broken record, 2024 is not 2020. There's not as many mail-in ballots. We won't have as many large percentages of Democratic votes coming in the days after. But -- but Donald Trump was ahead by more than 200,000 votes at this point four years ago. So, let's just be cautious for the sake of being cautious. And yet, at the same time, I just said that, I want to tell you, he's 136,000 votes ahead in a state that was decided by 11,000 votes last cycle. Eighty-eight percent of the vote is in.
 
So where is the live outstanding vote? Live outstanding vote, this is where in the Harris campaign you're just hoping that overnight, these democratic areas report not just their votes but a lot of votes. You're hoping turnout exceeds your expectations. So, you see down here in the Savannah area, this is where the races are won or lost for Democrats, Atlanta and the suburbs around it.
 
So, let's come out of that map. And again, here's the key point. Bolton County, 90% of the vote is in. Yes, she's getting 72% of the vote. Just want to check, compare that. It's a little below where President Biden was, but it's close. But remember, he won the state by 11,000 votes. So, she can't really afford to be below him anywhere or not by much, anyway.
 
You move over to Cobb County, 91% in. It's a big suburban county, right? So, 91%, you have some change to make up there. She's at 57%, if you round that up. The president of the United States is at 56. So, she's running equal, maybe a little bit ahead there.
 
So, let's come over to DeKalb County here. Let's come up to 2024 and see what's left. Eleven percent left. Again, large, very democratic area. You see the 81% there, just to the east of Atlanta. Let's just check 2020, Biden getting 83. At 81, 83, you might think at home, that's not that big of a difference. In a race that's very close, yes, it can be a big difference. So, we have to watch at the moment.
 
Let's come out. Let's do it this way. Come back to 2024. Let's just pop in this and see where is Harris underperforming. Where is Harris underperforming Joe Biden? In a state Joe Biden won by 11,000 votes, you can't really underperform. But she's underperforming in 28 of the 159 counties, right?
 
So, we have more votes to be counted. We're not done yet. This is not a final glimpse. But you see out in these rural areas? This is part of the secret of Joe Biden's win in 2020. He got his butt kicked by Donald Trump in these small rural counties, but he did better than Hillary Clinton. Blue collar workers, rural workers, people who work with their hands, Joe Biden did just a little bit better. And in a state decided by 11,000 votes, that can matter.
 
So again, you asked me about the map. We're not done. We're going to count. The Harris campaign will update us. They're in their counties. We have people on the ground asking the people, our vote desk with Pam Brown, what votes are still outstanding.
 
But if you look at this map right now, I want to switch. Well, let's just check really quickly where we are in Wisconsin, 61%. I want to check Milwaukee. This is where -- okay, only 53% in Milwaukee. Black turnout in Milwaukee, better be huge in the uncounted vote for the Vice President to catch up. I talked to a Democrat out there earlier who said it was good.
 <br>[23:10:00]
 
They didn't say it was great, they said it was good. I asked if it was great, and they said it was good. So, we'll see how that plays out. Dane County, 74% or at 91%. Again, not to be a broken record, 75%. A percentage point can matter, underperforming by just a little bit. And so, she's losing in Wisconsin, got ways to go there. She's holding on in Michigan at the moment. We're still only at 32%. So, we got a long way to go in battleground Michigan. We'll come back out here.
 
And this one is the biggest, I'm going to show you why in just a second, of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. We've been saying it for weeks. Nineteen electoral votes, the largest of the battleground states out there, 72% in, a 178,000 vote-lead. That's a healthy lead. Now, again, let's look, let's look. There's a lot of votes. This is what happened. Remember 2020. Donald Trump was ahead in Pennsylvania. This was what brought Joe Biden back. They counted the votes mainly in Philadelphia, but also in the suburbs around it. That was 2020. There were lot more early mail-in votes then to be counted than there are now. But we shall see as we come out.
 
And Jake, before you jump in and please ask me anything you want, one little quirky thing. Trump is leading in Northampton. Harris is leading in Erie. Those are the two swing counties that have been. So just watching that.
 
But here's what I want to say right now. I just want to bring this up to show the stakes for the Harris campaign right now as the count in North Carolina gets higher and in Georgia gets higher. The importance if Donald Trump, if, this is a hypothetical, but if Donald Trump holds these two, and he won that one both times, 2016 and 2020, he won this in 2016, he lost it by 11,000 votes in 2020, so not at all inconceivable in history.
 
And when you look at the numbers tonight, excuse me, if that happens, Harris cannot lose that. Why can she not lose that? Because 251 plus 19 makes Donald Trump president of the United States. So, the rest of them wouldn't matter. I don't mean your votes don't matter in those other states. But in terms of the path to 270, if he holds those leads he has right now in those two states, which are healthy leads, she cannot afford to lose that. No. Cannot.
 
And at the moment, as we switch maps, please jump in if you want, I'm just going to switch back to the national maps so we can watch the count.
 
TAPPER: Okay. I want to stick on Pennsylvania and bring in Kate Bolduan, who is at a vote counting center in the best city in the world, Philadelphia. Kate, what are you learning?
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: It's the only area where you're allowed to be biased. We've just learned, as John was focusing in on the outstanding mail-in ballots, that is something that we have all been waiting for, I have just learned from a source close to the counting process that the next batch, the second batch of mail ballots that will be loaded and posted, scheduled to at 11:55 p.m., that will be tens of thousands of ballots. They're still working through it. So, narrowing that number down any further. Not possible at this time. We'll continue working with it.
 
But it will be tens of thousands of mail ballots that will be posted at 11:55 just before midnight, adding to what was the first batch, which ended up being 115,000 mail ballots, which is just narrowing the universe of what's outstanding, getting us closer and closer to, as John has been talking about, once you get that 50% of the vote in, then you can really start seeing where things are headed. And what we're seeing in Philadelphia, they're not yet at 50%. They're getting closer to it. And these mail-in ballots, when they post at 11:55, will get them quite a bit more there.
 
TAPPER: All right, Kate, thanks so much. Let's go to the other side of the Commonwealth. Brian Todd is at a vote counting center outside Pittsburgh. Brian, what's the status of the vote there?
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Jake, the bottom line is we're heading to the finish line very quickly here in Allegheny County. I'm with David Voye, the election divisions manager of the county. David, it's going to be counted all pretty soon by midnight. About how much of the vote, do you think, will be in? 
 
DAVID VOYE, ALLEGHENY COUNTY ELECTIONS DIVISION MANAGER: I believe we're roughly 98% now reported. I believe, by midnight -- I'm sorry, we're at 89% reported. I believe, by midnight, we should be around 98.
 
TODD: And to clarify, just about all the mail-ins have been reported by now?
 
VOYE: All the mail-ins that we have will be counted and tabulated this evening. The only thing that it will not be are any military or overseas ballots, which they have an extra week to return their ballots. They'll be scanned in later.
 
TODD: An illustration is right behind us of the votes coming in. Explain to our viewers what these are and where they're going to be put.
 
VOYE: So, these yellow bags are the physical paper ballots that voters have voted. They're put in these bags and sealed and locked. Sealed numbers are traced for chain of custody, and they will be locked up and kept here.
 
TODD: Just how smoothly has it gone because we've heard that it has gone incredibly smoothly here in Allegheny.
 
VOYE: So, this crew that works here on Election Day, they've gotten really good at this since 2020. I mean, we posted our first batch of approximately 186,000 mail-in ballots by 8:02.
 <br>[23:15:02]
 
And, you know, by law in PA, we're not allowed to post any results before 8:00.
 
TODD: Is there anything we can look to be outstanding after midnight tonight?
 
VOYE: Just the provisional ballots, which we are sworn in on Friday to start our return board as a recount. That's almost our research in those provisional. See how many we have and start counting those. And again, like I said, the overseas and military ballots, these will count and get into the system next week.
 
TODD: Any sense of how many of those there are?
 
VOYE: Less than 4,000 total. TODD: David, thank you very much. Great uptime. All right, guys, back to you. Allegheny County, close to the finish line here.
 
TAPPER: All right. Brian, thanks so much. Let's get more on the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania with Pamela Brown, who's at the voting desk. Pamela, take us through what is left to be counted. What's outstanding?
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's a big question, what's going on in the collar counties around Philadelphia. These are the blue-leaning collar counties that the Harris campaign has been trying to drive up turnout. That's Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery counties where results have been slowly coming in.
 
So, I just spoke to an official in Chester County, an official there tells me that they just released a large batch of mail-in ballots. So, that release was 60,673. And by 1 a.m., I'm told they'll see more results from the precincts of today's in-person votes. You have to remember they have to take the memory card, drive it in, it's a large county.
 
Now, total ballots counted so far, like, this is the universe, right? It is 151,950, and then I should note the ballots cast in person today there in this key coller county is 91,277, per this official.
 
Let's go over to Bucks County. This is another critical collar county, as John King has been talking about all night. I'm told results will trickle in as these data cards are being driven from the polling places. An official I was just in touch with, texting with there, in Bucks, says, so far, over 90,000 mail-in ballots are accounted for and the results out of a possible total of 151,000.
 
And I also want to note this, that the state will be required to report the outstanding early votes by midnight. So, we should get a clearer picture soon there in this critical battleground Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Back to you.
 
TAPPER: All right. Fascinating. She was just talking about Bucks County. Walk us through Bucks Country. This is where -- Harris had a couple big events there, including that one with Liz Cheney, really making a play for Republican women, especially in Bucks County.
 
KING: And for Haley voters. Nikki Haley got 155,000 votes in the Pennsylvania primary long after she was out of the race. So that was one piece of a competition. Two things to say about this. Number one, it's only half the vote. So, if you just think, we have about 200,000 more votes, right? This is 51%. It is 103 to 102. Got roughly 200,000 votes still to come in. Bucks County is the most competitive the collar counties.
 
She's at 50%, the vice president, if you round up. Again, President Biden was at 52, if you round him up. You say that's not a huge difference but, Jake, you know the Commonwealth very well. In the competitive swing counties, a half a point or a point can matter. And right now, that number is not good for the vice president. TAPPER: Indeed. CNN can bring you a projection now, folks at home. CNN projects that the state of Oregon will go to Kamala Harris, as expected. Oregon with its eight electoral votes will go to the Democrat, Kamala Harris.
 
Let's take a look at the electoral map. Right now, Donald Trump has 211 electoral votes. Kamala Harris has 153 electoral votes. Two hundred and seventy are needed to win.
 
Let's take a look at the key races now. Arizona, Donald Trump in the lead there, 49.6% of the vote. Kamala Harris right behind him with 49.5% of the vote. Donald Trump with a roughly 3,000 vote-lead. That's with 51% of the estimated vote in from the state of Arizona.
 
In battleground Wisconsin, Donald Trump maintaining his lead, 50.4% of the vote. Kamala Harris has 48% of the vote. Donald Trump with a more than 50,000 vote lead right now with 63% of the estimated vote in from the Badger State.
 
In the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Donald Trump maintaining his lead, 51% of the vote. Kamala Harris has 47.9% of the vote. Donald Trump with more than 165,000 more votes than Kamala Harris with more than three quarters, 76% of the estimated vote in from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
In Battleground, Georgia, Donald Trump in the lead, 50.9% of the vote. Kamala Harris has 48.3% of the vote. Donald Trump has a more than 131,000 vote-lead over Kamala Harris. That's with 90% of the estimated vote in. So, they got 10% to go there in Georgia, but Donald Trump in the lead.
 
In North Carolina, another battleground, Donald Trump still in the lead there with 50.7% of the vote. Kamala Harris with 47.9% of the vote. Donald Trump has a more than 138,000 vote-lead over Kamala Harris with an estimated 87% of the vote in.
 
In Battleground, Michigan, Kamala Harris is in the lead, 50.2% of the vote. Donald Trump has 48% of the vote. Harris has a more than 40,000 vote-lead over Donald Trump with one-third, 33% of the votes in there. John King?
 
KING: So, Jake, just going through some of these counties in Pennsylvania. Again, Joe Biden won the state. Let's go back and show you it.
 <br>[23:20:00]
 
Eighty-one thousand votes, right? His birth state, he's from Delaware now, but he was born in Pennsylvania. That was one of the things that helped him because he was, as he liked to call himself, the scrappy kid from Scranton.
 
So where are we now in 2024? I was just looking here. This is Lackawanna County. This is where Joe Biden was born, Scranton, Pennsylvania. You say, well, the vice president is winning it with 51%. But Donald Trump is at 48, right? So again, in a close battleground state, margins within some of these counties can matter.
 
She's at 51. Joe Biden, four years ago, was at 54. That's a big deal. That's a big deal. You look at the margin there, you say, oh, that's only 9,000 votes, right? You know, if you're trying now, you're trying to make up this lead, right? That's 3,000 votes. A little less than that, a little more than that, maybe 3,000 votes. The reason it matters is you're trying to make up 173,000 votes, right? So, when you're losing ground in each of these counties, it hurts.
 
And so, let's just come over here. This is Luzerne County. This is -- again, this is Trump country, Pennsylvania. Harris getting 42%, 43% if you want to round that up. Trump at 57. Again, 43 for the vice president -- 42. So there, she's competing. Not so bad there. So, you're just looking for the pieces as you come through.
 
Carbon County, 65 for Trump four years ago, 72% for Trump now. That's white workers, blue-collar workers, high school-educated workers. Want to check back in here? Lehigh County, vice president getting 52%. It's a little bit out here.
 
Again, you're looking for population centers now. This is the 10th largest of the 67 counties. If you're the Harris campaign, you're looking at population centers trying to say what's left in the places where there are a lot of people. Modest amount of people in Lehigh Valley.
 
But you see it right there, 52. Just want to come back. Joe Biden is at 53. You see the pattern that continues, right? You know, I was saying Donald Trump has to improve his standing a point or two in the suburbs. She has to match Joe Biden in these close battleground states. And in a place that matter, blue-collar Pennsylvania, you don't see it right now. Some votes still to be counted. Maybe she makes it up.
 
But then the other point is if you're losing places, can you make it up? Right? If you're losing in one piece of the state, can you make it up somewhere else? Look at Delaware County. She's getting 60% of the vote. Right? So, it's only 70% counted. She's getting 60. Biden got 63, even in Delaware County, which is strongly democratic. That was my last stop on map tour there. Again, there's time, right? There's 70% of the vote to come.
 
But look at this, right? If you've got 70%, the most you're going to make up -- if the percentages stay the same, you're going to make up somewhere in the ballpark of 15 or 20,000 votes, right? That's great, you're making up 15, 20,000 votes. His lead is 178,000 votes. So, you're looking for places where you can make up a ton, which is why, to circle back to your hometown, what Kate Bolduan just told us is absolutely essential.
 
It was Saturday morning in 2020 when that last installment from Philadelphia came in. The next installment will not be the last installment from Philadelphia, but she said tens and tens of thousands of votes, right? The vice president of the United States is getting 77% of the vote right now in Philadelphia. They're approaching 70% reporting. You come back in time, the president of the United States was getting over 81% in Philadelphia.
 
Again, this is your biggest basket of votes, the Democratic coalition. This is the foundation. There's no House for Democrats without the foundation of Philadelphia. At the moment, she is underperforming the president of the United States, and she has to make up 178,000 votes.
 
The math there is pretty clear. It is not mission impossible, but the more you get deeper into the count, the question is, after this next big batch of votes from Philadelphia, does it become mission improbable? I think is what you're looking for as we wait for more votes in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. And again, Trump wins Pennsylvania, the map gets near impossible. Not impossible, but near impossible.
 
TAPPER: There have been stories written a week or two ago about Democrats in Philadelphia sounding the alarm and telling, basically using the press to send the message to the Harris campaign that they didn't think that the Harris campaign was listening to Philadelphia Democrats enough about the need to improve the margins and just -- you know, Donald Trump lost Pennsylvania in 2020, but he improved his --
 
KING: Yes.
 
TAPPER: -- vote count in Philly from 2016 to 2020. And it looks like he's doing that again tonight even while improving his margins in the collar counties as opposed to what happened four years ago.
 
KING: We don't have the raw numbers yet obviously because we're at 70%, but he is at 22 if you round that up, 117,000 votes. Let's just go back and look. He's certainly on track to. If he keeps the percentage he's at now, he's at 18% there and he had 132,000 votes, he's at 117,000 votes and we still got 30% (INAUDIBLE), it sure looks like he's overperforming 2020. We're not done yet, but it sure looks like that.
 
And then, so the analysis afterwards will be, who is it? Is it the Black voters in Philadelphia? There are some suburban areas outside of Philadelphia there. There are some affluent white voters there as well. But that will be the analysis afterwards.
 
The thing that strikes me, as we're going through these states, the thing you heard in the last week from the Harris people is that we're on the ground, our labor allies are on the ground, our progressive groups are on the ground, our LGBTQ groups are on the ground, we're knocking on doors and we don't see the Trump people anywhere.
 <br>[23:25:04]
 
But Trump did sort of contract out his get out the vote. I was in seven or eight of these battleground states in the last couple of weeks. We didn't see many Trump people out there at all just doing phone banks. But what happened in 2016 is Trump support was organic. It was organic.
 
And so, you know, A, the Trump campaign says, you know, text and phone calls work to turn out voters. Democrats think it's knocking on the doors. If this holds, if this map holds up, that's going to be a big conversation about motivating and turning out voters in this technology age. What works best? What kind of contact works best? Or, you know, the vice president's campaign, well, they say she only had 110 days. She didn't have enough time to introduce herself.
 
TAPPER: Yeah.
 
KING: That part, we're not done yet. But that's what's going to happen. You know, if that happens, who, the finger pointing, in the Democratic Party. We're not there yet. But as you watch this map fill in, another thing that is distinctive at the moment, we're not done yet, in two presidential elections, Donald Trump has lost the popular vote both times. At the moment, he's 5.1 million votes ahead. We're just starting the count in our most populous state.
 
So, there's a long way to go. And that could change. That could change. But that would be a trophy if Donald Trump wins this election. That would be a trophy he would very much like to claim after losing the popular vote in two elections in a row.
 
TAPPER: And you also know the people. There are people in the senior echelons of the Trump campaign who say that they still do direct mail because there's -- they said seniors, you can't reach seniors through texting and emails.
 
KING: Yes.
 
TAPPER: That the way to reach them is with direct mail, which a lot of people in politics today laugh off. But guess who votes more than young people? Seniors. Sara Sidner -- let's go to Wisconsin, if you can, because I want to bring in Sara Sidner, who is at a vote counting center in Milwaukee right now with 66% of the vote in. Donald Trump is in the lead there with 50.6% in Wisconsin in general. Kamala Harris with 47.8 Donald Trump right now in the lead by almost 60,000 votes.
 
Sara, you have officials with you who can tell us about the outstanding vote in Wisconsin. Still about a third of the state's vote is outstanding. What can you tell us?
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR AND SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, we just heard a big cheer go up here in Milwaukee at the central count, as they call it, because all the wards have finally reported. So, they are counting these ballots as fast as they can. They do believe they're going to be able to give some kind of idea of this count after midnight. It will not take the extra two or three hours. They thought it might because of that problem with what happened with the tabulators which, by the way, are right behind me, one of them.
 
There was an issue. A door was not locked. And so, they, out of an abundance of caution, decided that they were going to put through, rerun through the absentee ballots, 30,000 of them, but they've been able to do that, and now there are about 80,000 of 108,325 that have already been processed.
 
All right, with me now, we have Patricia Ruiz-Cantu and Douglas Haag, Republican and Democrat. Both of them are on the Milwaukee Election Commission. First of all, how are things going, and do you think we're going to find out something soon?
 
PATRICIA RUIZ-CANTU, DEMOCRATIC ELECTION COMMISSIONER: We will. I think things are going really well, even though we had a little hiccup. But, you know, as we united all the workers and the parties, I think that is extremely important that we were in the same page, and then we had an agreement, and everything is going well.
 
SIDNER: What did you make of this? I know Ron Johnson came out, a Republican, and was very, you know, upset with all of these, and was sort of making hay about it. What were your thoughts on what happened with these machines?
 
DOUGLAS HAAG, REPUBLICAN ELECTION COMMISSIONER: Well, there was a human error in part of it. So, when it was caught, we just simply do a rerun on the -- with the tabulators and even probably some of the tabulators should have seen it. It was caught by one of the observers who brought it to the executive director's attention, and it was act upon immediately. We took care of it. And yes, we anticipate a much further delay than we are, but I think we're right on schedule where we anticipate to be earlier.
 
And true, you can see around and look at the poll workers at work. We both have Democrats and Republicans working side by side. And many of them have been doing this for many years. They've become very efficient about it, and they're with the integrity from each group. So, I think we're going to be -- we are going to be getting those numbers fairly soon. I don't want to say as early as we would like, but I think it's going to be earlier than what we thought, before -- before we have the hiccups, so to speak.
 
SIDNER: What do you think of this, the number of voters? Are you seeing the numbers larger than in 2020? What are you seeing now?
 
HAAG: A lot. Actually, I'm not seeing as large as I thought before.
 <br>[23:29:58]
 
But I was doing -- most of us were going out to the polls earlier, too. The polls were steady, nice flow. What I did see is a high volume of same-day registrations. That was seen to be a much more increase at all the polling sites and not just one geographical area, whether it be -- whether -- whatever demographics. But it was all over. That was encompassed. I talked to each chief inspector. That is the area that I saw a much increase in the participation of same-day registration.
 
SIDNER: Same-day registration. We saw that also in Cedarburg today. A lot of people coming and registering and voting. Thank you both so much. We should just make very clear, you heard it here from a Republican and a Democrat, who are election commissioners, that there was an agreement. This is going to be a free and fair election here in Milwaukee. People are watching every single bit of this and agreeing that things are going as smoothly as possible after that hiccup earlier today.
 
TAPPER: All right. Sara Sidner in Milwaukee, thank you so much. Appreciate it. Let's take a look at Milwaukee and Wisconsin at large. Donald Trump in the lead with 66% of the vote in, in the state in general. Tell me about the wow counties, if you could.
 
KING: You're right around Milwaukee or the wow. Let me get to it just a second. I just want to interest you. Number one. We've learned about Senator Johnson in recent years. He likes to put out press releases before he knows what the facts are. Sorry, it just happens to be true, especially about voting integrity. That's how it's supposed to work. A Democrat and Republican standing side by side. Democrats and Republicans throughout the room, they're fine, they're doing what they're supposed to do. They had a human error, we're all human, and they're fixing it. Right?
 
That's how it works. Sometimes, it means you wait a little while, but you have people in the room, eyeballs, both parties, eyeballs on everything.
 
TAPPER: Yup.
 
KING: Everything is going to be fine. But the point Mr. Haag made at the end is instructive to me in the sense that if you come to here, you're down, you're the vice president, you're losing by just shy of 60,000 votes. This is the number one county. It is 17%, 16%, 17% of the state population. You're getting 66%. So, you say, okay, there's still 40% of the vote to come in. But Mr. Haag just made a point. He said anything turnout was great.
 
Let's see what these final numbers are, because if you look at that number right there, they're looking at 176,000, right? When Joe Biden carried Wisconsin four years ago, he is at 317,000, and it's 69% of the vote, right? So, 317,000 and 69% of the vote. He's at 66% of the vote. And the raw math, right? You need the higher percentage. But you need that raw math to overcome what is happening in all these red, right?
 
Especially -- one more check and I'll get you to your wows. Dane County is 95% in, right? This is Madison. This is the University of Wisconsin. Young voters, college area, tends to be more liberal. Seventy-four percent for her, 242,000. Again, again, Biden's numbers higher and the math is higher. That's what happens in battle. That's how you win or lose battleground states.
 
TAPPER: Get out the vote and get out the vote and with a higher percentage.
 
KING: And so, in a place, in a state won by 20,000 votes, you saw the margin even just right there. So, let's go to the wows. You're going to go to Waukesha County. Was just here recently, right? This is a place, the Harris campaign was hoping, you know, hey women, you don't have to tell your husband who you're going to vote for. If you believe in reproductive freedom in a conservative county, you know, vote Harris, just don't tell your husband about it. This is one of the places they thought the Dobbs decision, reproductive freedom, abortion rights, would help them cut into the margins.
 
Well, we're at 91%, we'll see, but 40% is her number, if you round that up. We'll go back in time. It's a tiny bit, a tiny bit, but it's not a significant jump from where the president was four years ago. Trump is at 50, 60% if you round up then, he's at 59. So, a little bit, maybe a tiny in-roads there for her.
 
So, you're moving around up here. You go up to Washington County. This is big, 70% of the vote here for Trump. Let's just double check it and come back.
 
TAPPER: He improved.
 
KING: Up a little bit.
 
TAPPER: He improved.
 
KING: He improved a little bit. And then you come over here to the -- oh, I did wow backwards for you there. I put the oh at the end.
 
TAPPER: Yeah.
 
KING: But you come over to Ozaukee here and the former president is at 55% of the vote in 2020, and he's at 56. Roughly the same but a little bit, you know. So, Trump is not underperforming. You know, it's maybe within the margins. But when you see that, well behind where President Biden was, and now you're waiting on this, I mean, there are some other small things.
 
Let's take a look and see what else is out there. But as you can see, the biggest thing is here. And some of these votes up in here, if you're in the Trump campaign, you know, we're talking about, can she come back? But if you're in the Trump campaign, you're also saying, do we have a cushion? Is there more coming in for us? And the answer is yes.
 
TAPPER: Oh yeah, they got all that Green Bay vote. Look at that.
 
KING: The answer is yes when you look up there. So, the next thing we learned from Milwaukee is how many votes? What is our percentage? How does it affect the statewide math? And then how much is left?
 
TAPPER: Yeah.
 
KING: How much is left? In your biggest area, you have to turn them out, because -- again, I just want to come up here and look at this. Again, Brown County, this is Green Bay, blue collar workers. Trump is getting 61. The vice president is getting 37 or 38 if you want to round that up. That matters.
 
TAPPER: Oh, my God.
 
KING: That matters.
 
TAPPER: He almost shot almost 10 points, 9 points.
 <br>[23:35:00]
 
KING: In a battleground state, he's up and she's down, in a place where, you know, if you're the Harris campaign, the Biden campaign, you know you're not going to win here. You know you're not going to win here. But if you make it that race, if you make it that close, instead of that close --
 
TAPPER: Yeah.
 
KING: -- you get a better result. Period. Simple math.
 
TAPPER: Let's go on to the other -- the third of the blue wall states, Michigan. Jim Sciutto is at a vote counting center in Detroit. And Jim, you have an update on the vote in Wayne County. Tell us.
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST:  Well, let me tell you, we've been in touch with the secretary of state's office, really, every few minutes here trying to figure out when we're going to get another batch of Detroit and, of course, the surrounding Wayne County votes. And we're told very soon. They won't put a figure on very soon, but very soon. We know they're working hard, calculating those numbers, counting those votes, and that there have been no issues. They're not encountering any issues with machines, etc. This is just a process of getting the work done.
 
We've also been in touch with Macomb County where we were outside of Detroit earlier today. They are also expecting, they say, another batch of votes to be reported quite soon.
 
And here where we are in Detroit, this is the location where they've been counting the absentee ballots. Just in the last hour, another 2,500 or so absentee ballots came in. That brings us pretty much to the end of the 100,000 that they've expected. At some point in the next hour, we'll see another U-Haul truck come in with the remaining absentee ballots that they've collected from drop boxes around the city here. And they've been counting as they've been going. Remember, they started counting last Monday. They didn't have to wait till Election Day. So those numbers will be done soon.
 
I will say the secretary of state told me earlier this evening that she's moving up her expectation that by midday tomorrow, they could report final unofficial results, saying -- she believes they might be able to do that tonight, perhaps after midnight, in the next couple of hours but, of course, they'll have to get those Wayne County numbers done first. I should note the secretary of state just walked in here to monitor the counting of those absentee ballots. She has been doing it at precincts around the state.
 
TAPPER: All right. Jim Sciutto, thank you so much. Jim Sciutto in Detroit. I mean, John, I mean, it's 2024. They only have 16% reported in Wayne County, home of Detroit?
 
KING: You know, one of the things you look for life are consistency --
 
TAPPER: Death taxes, Wayne County --
 
KING: Wayne County, they're consistent. This is my 10th presidential election and the 10th time you've been counting late at night and you're saying, hello, Detroit, hello.
 
TAPPER: Yeah. KING: It's the latest. But, you know, you see the secretary of state there. Jim is there. Again, that's nothing nefarious. It's just an efficiency. You know, to your point about that we live in the technological age. And Jim just said, you know, they changed the law in Michigan. So, you could count some of the early votes, you know, beforehand, and then release them after the polls close. So, it adds to the why.
 
But right now, let's focus on the what, which is an 86,000 vote, almost 87,000 vote lead for the former president, again, in one of the states he flipped in -- I'm just going to pull that out to make sure I'm right. Yes, he's leading all three of them now.
 
TAPPER: Oh, wait, yeah, that changed when we were talking.
 
KING: That changed when we were talking.
 
TAPPER: She was ahead --
 
KING: Yes, she was ahead.
 
TAPPER: -- in Michigan. And now, she is no longer. Now, Donald Trump is in the lead right now. Not all the votes are counted. Right now, he's leading in all three blue wall states.
 
KING: Plus North Carolina, plus Georgia, plus Arizona, plus Nevada. We're not done with the count. We're not done with the count.
 
TAPPER: But this is -- this is right now the map of 2016.
 
KING: That is the map of 2016 and that is the five-alarm fire inside the Harris campaign. Again, on the phone. Again, we're not done. And we live through 2020. I want to say it again, slowly and clearly, 2020, this time of night, there were states that changed, and they were largely -- Pennsylvania changed. Trump was ahead in Georgia. Things have changed.
 
There's not as many mail ballots out there as in 2020. So, I would not expect as dramatic a swing. The question then becomes, go state by state, county by county, is the math there? And I'm making these -- I'm trying to be fair and trying to be, yeah, it's possible, yeah, it's possible. When you're leading in all of them and you're Trump, I mean, that's what you're sitting in the headquarters. So maybe they're not going to win them all. Maybe they're not going to win them all. But they're leading in all of them right now.
 
And so, let's just look at what happened here and come on in. Number one, it's the smaller rural counties. When they fill in, when they fill in, again, you say, oh, that's not a lot of votes. Well, that's a lot of votes. Well, you have it there, and then you have it here, and then you have it again here. You're getting 500, 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 in all these little counties. You know, 120 votes there. That's only 5% reporting. You say, oh, that's not much. It's a lot when you think you're going through a state, and you have all these counties.
 
And then the question is, so what are the Democratic margins, right? You've got 83 counties in the state of Michigan. So, 56% were about halfway through in Kent County. It's the Grand Rapids suburbs. She's running a little bit ahead of the president there.
 <br>[23:39:59]
 
But Jake, the big question in Michigan is, when do those Wayne County votes come in and what do they do to the statewide total?
 
TAPPER: All right, John. Well, CNN has a major projection. CNN projects that Donald Trump will win the state of North Carolina. This is the first of seven battleground states that we're keeping an eye on, and we are calling it for Donald Trump. What does that mean for the electoral count? Donald Trump now has 227 electoral votes. Kamala Harris has 153. Two hundred and seventy are needed to the win.
 
Let's go to Trump HQ in West Palm Beach, Florida where we find Kaitlan Collins. And Kaitlan, CNN is now calling North Carolina for Donald Trump. This is the first of seven battleground states that the campaign is watching with eagle eyes.
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Jake, remember when I told you a few hours ago that it was going to be seen as a gut check for the Trump campaign? Listen here, it's a bit of a delay, but your call is playing right now over the loudspeakers in the room, Jake. You can hear the party here. The party goers gathered at the convention center here in West Palm Beach cheering as your call is coming on the screen. They have been glued to CNN for the last several moments watching John King at the map going over each of these numbers.
 
But North Carolina is an important benchmark for the Trump campaign because they were watching it to get a gut check for how they believed the rest of the evening could go. And I can tell you that what I'm hearing from Trump campaign sources is they are increasingly confident as the night is going on. Still not certain, of course, watching those very important blue wall states and to see what they look like. And so that is going to be the big question here as they continue to keep an eye on Pennsylvania, on Michigan, on Wisconsin as this is moving forward.
 
Jake, I will tell you that we're seeing more people from the Mar-a- Lago party come over here to the Trump headquarters where this party is going to be held. But also, some Republicans are flying into Palm Beach. We just heard from House Speaker Mike Johnson, who is watching the results come in with his constituents back in Shreveport. He is now headed here tonight because he is predicting a bigger Republican margin in the House, a Republican takeover of the Senate, and he says he believes the Republican is going to win the White House. Therefore, Donald Trump, Jake, obviously still waiting to see, but a noticeable shift here in the mood at the Trump headquarters.
 
TAPPER: All right. Kaitlan Collins in West Palm Beach at Trump HQ, thank you so much. So, the first of the seven battleground states to fall and CNN projecting North Carolina for Donald Trump.
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: This was the most probable pickup for Kamala Harris if that was the world in which we were living. That is why Donald Trump went down there multiple times in the last 24-48 hours of the campaign. And it clearly did not happen for Kamala Harris.
 
And Trump, he's telling his people, I'm told, and just like we heard from Kaitlan, that this is something that is, that portends well for the future. We don't know what it means for the other states, but what we do know is it's even more evidence that that blue wall is the path for Kamala Harris.
 
AUDIE CORNISH, CNN HOST AND CORRESPONDENT, PODCAST HOST: And that path is just more and more narrow, I think we're seeing as the night goes on. But also, so many people thought that perhaps this would be an election that in tenor and tone would be closer to the midterms. A big conversation about abortion. That is not where it's going. It seems like you're seeing that male turnout is starting to produce what the campaign wanted.
 
CHRIS WALLACE, BROADCAST JOURNALIST: You know, I think a lot of us came into tonight wondering, was it going to feel more like 2016 or 2020? And four years ago, I was at Fox and at almost exactly this moment, at 11:20 p.m., we made the very controversial call, they made the very controversial call of Arizona. And that changed the whole feeling, and that's one of the reasons the Trump campaign was so furious about that call, because it was the first flip and the first indication that maybe it was going to be different than 2016. Right now, look, there's a lot of voting to count and states to be called. But right at this moment, this does feel more like 2016 than 2020.
 
TAPPER: It is interesting. And yeah, the fact that we are calling it at this point is also significant because I don't think North Carolina was called last time four years ago and told maybe a week after the election or it was certainly after Pennsylvania -- Pennsylvania came on Saturday. I think North Carolina was Sunday or Monday. The fact that we are making this call now suggests that it is -- there's a bigger gap --
 
BASH: Yeah.
 
TAPPER: -- than there was last time. And Donald Trump won it last time by something like 75,000 votes.
 
WALLACE: Generally speaking, he is overperforming what he did in 2020, and she is underperforming what Joe Biden did in 2020. That ends up what was a narrow edge for Biden. At this point, we have to condition it, a narrow defeat for Harris.
 <br>[23:44:56]
 
BASH: And the thing about North Carolina, and John has been talking about this and will do more at the wall, is you do have kind of a sense of the country in the state of North Carolina, in that there are growing minority populations and there is a growing sort of suburban, maybe more moderate population in and around the big cities, and so that is why the Harris campaign thought with the dynamics of the country right now that she would have a better shot. But look, the headwinds of the economy, the inflation that people are feeling, the difficulty in everyday lives --
 
CORNISH: Yeah, she could not outrun that Biden economy.
 
BASH: She couldn't. Yeah. The economy, Chris, that is what people are feeling every single day. I mean, we were talking earlier about whether or not the sort of women and the idea of this being the first post-Roe presidential campaign was going to supersede how people felt when they were buying eggs and milk. And certainly, North Carolina and other places that we are seeing start to formulate in these other states, the answer is no.
 
WALLACE: You know, we have talked about it all night. We've disagreed to a certain degree about the right track, wrong track, and it was 27% right track, 60-something percent wrong track. You know, maybe part of that is dissatisfaction with Trump. Maybe some of that is dissatisfaction with the abortion overturn.
 
But in terms of what people live every day, it's the economy, it's the price of eggs, it's the fear of inflation, which with the spread of illegal immigrants north, is now being felt as an issue not just on the border but in northern states as well.
 
BASH: And Jake, I'm going to be interested to figure out and to find out once we get all the details how much success the Trump campaign had in increasing their share of the mail vote. They worked really hard at that.
 
TAPPER: Very interesting. Let's bring you a key race alert to get you up to speed on where we are and all the states that we have not called. In battleground Pennsylvania, Donald Trump with 51.3%. Kamala Harris 47.6%. Donald Trump more than 212,000 votes ahead with 82% of the estimated vote in from the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
In battleground Michigan, Donald Trump in the lead, 51.2%. Kamala Harris at 47%. Donald Trump at 98,014 votes ahead of Kamala Harris with 41% of the estimated vote in from Michigan.
 
In battleground Wisconsin, Donald Trump in the lead, 50.7% to Harris's 47.7%. Donald Trump with a 68,000 plus vote-lead over Harris with 71% of the estimated vote in from the Badger State.
 
In Battleground Georgia, Donald Trump up 50.8% to Harris's 48.3%. Donald Trump with 128,582 more votes than Kamala Harris with 92% of the estimated vote counted in the state of Georgia.
 
In the state of Arizona, another battleground, Donald Trump in the lead there, 49.8% to Harris's 49.3%. Donald Trump with a 7,588 vote- lead over Kamala Harris. That's with more than half, 52% of the estimated vote in.
 
In Nevada, Donald Trump in the lead, 73%. Kamala Harris with 26.2%. Donald Trump with a 10,985 vote-lead over Harris. That's with only 2% of the vote in from Arizona. I mean, sorry, from Nevada, only 2%.
 
Boris Sanchez now has some new projections in the fight for control of the U.S. Senate.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Jake, a major, major moment for Republicans. They have just flipped. They are expected to flip their second democratic seat of the night. This one coming in Ohio. There, Republican Bernie Marino defeating incumbent Democrat Sherrod Brown. Moreno, the owner of some luxury car dealerships who invested early in blockchain technology, fought to attach Brown to the Biden administration more broadly, specifically on issues like immigration.
 
Sherrod Brown, a populist who had survived some difficult tests in this state before, cannot overcome the political headwinds he is facing. Donald Trump has now won Ohio three elections in a row, and it's simply too much for the incumbent Democrat to overcome. So, we are projecting that Bernie Moreno is your new junior senator from the Buckeye State.
 
Meantime, four Democratic holds. The first one, a historic one in New Jersey. Their congressman, Andy Kim, is set to become the first Korean-American ever to serve in the U.S. Senate. He defeats real estate tycoon Curtis Bashaw.
 
Meantime, in Virginia, their incumbent Democratic senator, Tim Kaine, a former vice- presidential candidate, he's projected to defeat Hung Cao, a former Navy captain.
 
Another Democratic hold to tell you about, this one, Martin Heinrich, the incumbent senator there, seeking his third term. He defeats Nella Domenici whose father was the last Republican senator elected in New Mexico some 20 years ago.
 <br>[23:50:00]
 
Another Democratic hold to project for you, this one coming in the state of Washington. Their Democratic incumbent senator, Maria Cantwell, wins her fifth term as she defeats Raul Garcia, an ER doctor.
 
Now, what does that pick up in Ohio mean for the magic number? We started out the night with Republicans needing to pick up two Democratic seats to take control of the chamber with West Virginia and Ohio. They have hit two. And now, they're seeking to pad those numbers. Currently, as we speak, Republicans are leading in four seats currently held by Democrats.
 
Let's get you an update on where those are right now with some key race alert. These are live results coming into CNN. We start with the state of Wisconsin. There, the CEO of California-based Sun West Bank, Eric Hovde, is 29,000 votes ahead of Democratic incumbent senator, Tammy Baldwin, who's seeking her third term in office. Seventy percent of the vote in. We just got an update. The lead, pretty much the same in Wisconsin for Hovde.
 
In Pennsylvania, this has been going back and forth all night. But right now, the former CEO of one of the largest hedge funds in the world, Dave McCormick, currently leads incumbent Democratic senator, Bob Casey, by about 120,000 votes. Still a very close race. This one also a very expensive one. Eighty one percent of the vote in in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
Now, a key race alert from the state of Michigan. This one has been close all night as well. Former Republican Congressman Mike Rogers currently leading current Democratic Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin, 48,000 votes. Rogers ahead of Slotkin. Forty percent of the vote in in the Wolverine State.
 
So, let's take a look at the balance of power in the U.S. Senate, the raw numbers. What does this mean? Democrats hold 40 seats, Republicans with those two pickups hold 49, 11 seats remaining to be determined. Jake, obviously, you need 51 for control of the chamber.
 
TAPPER: All right. Boris, thanks so much. And CNN can make a projection. CNN projects that Washington State, as expected, will go to Kamala Harris. Washington State with its 12 electoral votes to the Democrat, Vice President Kamala Harris. Let's look at the electoral map right now. Donald Trump has 227 electoral votes. Kamala Harris has 165 electoral votes. Two hundred seventy are needed to win.
 
We are waiting for more votes in the big three blue wall battlegrounds of Pennsylvania and Michigan and Wisconsin that both campaigns are watching very closely right now. A total of six top battlegrounds remain undecided as we get later into this election night. Stay right here for the next big rollout of votes. Right now, we're going to squeeze in a quick break. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
TAPPER: And CNN has another projection for you. CNN projects that Donald Trump will win three out of the five electoral votes from the state of Nebraska. Allow me a second to explain. Nebraska and Maine allocate their electoral votes partly in addition to the statewide three votes, according to congressional district. That's already too complicated probably.
 
Anyway, put it this way. Donald Trump has won three out of the five electoral votes. The other two, we do not know yet. But Donald Trump has three of the five. That means three more electoral votes for Donald Trump.
 
And what does that mean for the electoral map? Donald Trump has 230 electoral votes. He is 40 electoral votes away from winning. Kamala Harris has 165 electoral votes. She is 105 electoral votes away from winning.
 
Let's see what the states that we have not called, where their vote counts are. Pennsylvania, Donald Trump is in the lead there with 51.2%. Kamala Harris has 47.7% of the vote. Donald Trump is ahead of her by more than 206,000 votes. That is with 83% of the estimated vote in. That is Pennsylvania.
 
Battleground Michigan, Donald Trump up 51.3% if the vote. Kamala Harris has 46.9% of the vote. Donald Trump with a more than 111,000 vote lead with an estimated 44% of the vote in from Michigan.
 
Wisconsin now, Donald Trump in the lead there, too, 50.8% of the vote. Kamala Harris has 47.6% of the vote. Donald Trump almost 80,000 votes ahead of her with three quarters of the vote. Seventy-four percent of the estimated vote from the Badger State in.
 
Battleground Georgia, Donald Trump is up 50.7%. Kamala Harris is 48.4%. Donald Trump more than 118,000 votes ahead of her with an estimated 93% of the estimated vote in.
 
Arizona, Donald Trump ahead there, too, with 49.8% of the vote. Kamala Harris has 49.3% of the vote. He is more than 7,500 votes ahead of her right now, but they still have about 48% of the vote to count, 52% of the estimated vote in.
 
In Nevada, Donald Trump is in the lead with 73% of the vote. Kamala Harris is 26.2% of the vote. Donald Trump has a more than 10,000 vote, almost 11,000 vote lead. That is with only 2% of the estimated vote in.
 
As we follow these crucial undecided races, we are already also getting closer to another poll closing. Four more electoral votes are at stake for the next hour in the heat of the battle to reach 270. So, every electoral vote counts. We're just minutes away from voting ending in the reliably blue state of Hawaii. Over to John King now at the magic wall. John?
 
KING: So, Jake, a quick look. You just went through the numbers. Just want to look very quickly. These three states, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania will determine the fate of the Harris campaign, whether there's any chance she can come back.
 
As we wait to see those results, I just want to show you something and bring it up. Remember January 6th. Donald Trump was finished. Even Republicans are running away from Donald Trump. Donald Trump is done as a national politician.
 
I want to show you something. This is Trump overperforming his 2020 performance by 3% or more, right? This is a statewide look. We're not done with some of these counts out here, so this will change a little bit. But Donald Trump overperforming 2020, after January 6, 2021, that's the statewide look. Look at this. Just look at this when you go to full counties. Look at how many counties across America, 994 of the 4,000 plus, 4,600 plus counties and townships, especially up this way, part of the country, they don't call them counties, they call them townships, but in nearly a thousand, 993 right now, this will change as we go through, but Donald Trump is overperforming.
 
And look at where they are. He's mostly performing in red areas. His vote is getting higher in the areas where he wins elections. Yes, there are some blue places where he's overperforming, but just look at battleground Pennsylvania. Look at all these red counties, places that Trump wins, where he's overperforming by 3% or more, what he did in 2020.
 <br>[00:00:02]
 
Then you come out here. Let's go up to battleground Michigan. These are the decisive states left on the board right now. Look in the areas. Those are his base areas. He's getting more. The same over here in battleground Wisconsin. So, the former president of the United States, given up for dead, Jake, after January 6, 2021, is running stronger now than he did in the last campaign.
 
TAPPER: All right. John King, thank you so much.