Headline: Erin Burnett Outfront
Sub-headline: Trump Holds First Campaign Event Since Guilty Verdict; Biden Ties D-Day To Putin's War: "Tyrant Bent On Domination"; Hallie Biden Testifies About Using Drugs With Hunter Biden; Prosecutor: Murder Planning Doc Found On Suspect's Device. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired June 06, 2024 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[19:00:44]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: OUTFRONT next:
 
Trump targets the courts. He's back on the campaign trail and ripping into the Justice Department. And tonight, President Biden pushing back.
 
Plus, officers who defended the Capitol on January 6 booed by Republican lawmakers in Pennsylvania, others reportedly turning their backs on the men. One officer who was heckled is my guest.
 
And a blueprint for murder. Prosecutors revealing chilling notes from the suspected Gilgo Beach serial killer as he's charged with two more murders. 
 
Let's go OUTFRONT.
 
Good evening. I'm Brianna Keilar, in for Erin Burnett.
 
And OUTFRONT tonight, Trump on a tear. The former president back on the campaign trail. It's his first events since he was found guilty on 34 felony counts of falsifying business records, to cover up a hush money payment made to an adult film star right before for the 2016 election. 
 
And Trump was on the attack.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: I just went through a rigged trial in New York with a highly conflicted and I mean highly conflicted judge, where there was no crime. It was made up, fabricated stuff.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: That message comes as Trump's longtime ally, Steve Bannon, has now been ordered to report to prison by July 1st after being found guilty of contempt for refusing to appear before a congressional committee. 
 
Now, that date is important because it puts Bannon behind bars at the same time that his old boss, Trump, will learn of his sentence on July 11. 
 
But Bannon making it clear that prison will not deter him or Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEVE BANNON, FORMER TRUMP AIDE: I want to say something specific about the Justice Department. Merrick Garland, Lisa Monaco, the entire Justice Department, they're not going to shut up Trump. They're not going to shut up Navarro. They're not going to shut up Bannon and they're certainly not going to shut up MAGA.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: And Bannon will join a long list of Trump allies who have served time, including Peter Navarro, who Bannon mentioned there. He's currently serving a four-month sentence. 
 
Trump's former campaign chair Paul Manafort spent nearly two years in prison. Former Trump adviser George Papadopoulos, Trump's longtime CFO, Allen Weisselberg, and former Trump fixer, Michael Cohen. 
 
And just moments ago in a new interview, President Biden slamming the former president for his unrelenting attacks on the Justice Department.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Stop undermining the rule of law. Stop undermining the institutions. That's what this whole effort is. All the MAGA Republicans are coming out saying this is a fixed, this is a jury that -- this was a judge setup to get Trump. There's no evidence of any of that, none. He's trying to undermine that. 
 
Look, he got a fair trial. The jury spoke, like they're speaking in all cases. And it should be respected. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Kristen Holmes is OUTFRONT live in Phoenix where Trump just spoke and Sara Murray is live in Washington covering Bannon's case. 
 
Let's start with Kristen. 
 
So, Kristen, this is Trump's first big campaign events since his conviction. How did he handle that considering he is still under a gag order? 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Oh, Brianna, this is very different than what we saw at Trump Tower when there was speculation that he might have violated that gag order. He was talking about Michael Cohen, didn't mention him by name, but said that one of the witnesses was the sleaze bag and it was clear who he was talking about. 
 
Since then, clearly, he has learned his lesson today, was much more vague. He did talk about the case, these are the terms you is does saying it's rigged. He said the judge was conflicted, but he didn't go into detail. He didn't mention him by name really, keeping it very short. Usually, this is the big focus of everything he does.
 
And I will mention that a majority of his speech it was on message. She's focused on the politics. He talked about immigration. You talked about the economy. He took questions. It was a roughly one an hour and 45 minute long event, which is surprising because what we've seen from him since that verdict has been nonstop talk about that case.
 
Now, his campaign is hoping at some point that he would make this pivot to actually talking about political issues. Remember, despite the fact that this is helping him with fundraising. 
 <br>[19:05:02]
 
They do believe the messaging around how this is political persecution, linking this to Joe Biden, which, of course, is we have reported, this is not -- this trial was not linked to Joe Biden anyway. It was brought by the state of New York, has helped him with those fundraising numbers. There are still some questions about what this means for him politically. So they'd rather him not do focus only on the trial, but also bring up those issues like immigration, like the economy, like crime. 
 
Now, at events center tonight, there were thousands of people, many of them waiting outside and 112 reheat. I will note that according to the fire department here, they did have to transport about 11 people because of heat exhaustion, people waiting outside to see the former president -- Brianna. 
 
KEILAR: Well, 11 people. That is a lot. 
 
Kristen Holmes, thank you for that report. 
 
I want to turn now to this news about Steve Bannon. We have Sara Murray OUTFRONT in Washington.
 
Sara, I know you spoke with Bannon's attorney. They weren't actually expecting this result.
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: No, I think even though you saw Steve Bannon playing it cool in front of the cameras when he left court, sounding very defiant, his attorneys were stunned by the fact that the judge ordered Bannon to report to prison by July 1st and begin serving a sentence. 
 
I think his attorneys felt very confident that they would have more time to exhaust all of theirs -- their appeals and to keep Bannon out of prison for the foreseeable future. 
 
Now, Bannon is not out of options, although this tight time frame is definitely working against him, he could go to the U.S. Court of Appeals. He could go to the Supreme Court. He could ask for some emergency intervention. But just to give you an idea of where they were in regrouping when I was talking to one of his attorneys after court, they were saying we still don't know what our next step is going to be in this. We don't know if or when go to the appeals court. We don't know if were going to go straight to the U.S. Supreme Court to seek some kind of emergency relief. 
 
And again, they have just weeks for another court to intervene in this matter in order to keep Steve Bannon out of prison for what was something a jury handed down in 2022, finding him guilty of defying subpoenas from the January 6 Committee for both testimony, as well as for documents -- Brianna. 
 
KEILAR: All right. Sara Murray live here in Washington, thank you for that report.
 
And OUTFRONT now, Scott Jennings, former special assistant to President George W. Bush, and Paul Begala, former White House counselor to President Bill Clinton. 
 
Scott, we're watching Trump back on the campaign trail. He started off the night by railing against his judgment in New York. He called the trial rigged. He also those spent a lot of time on policy, the border, the economy and so forth. 
 
I wonder, do you think the rigged claims fly voters, or is this just kind of emotional indulgence on his part?
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think they certainly fly with the people who show up at those rallies. And that's why he's doing it. I mean, the polling is pretty clear that most people thought the trial was fair and also politically motivated. And that the jury probably got it right. I mean, it was some mixed messages.
 
Coming out of the whole thing though, how he's going to win the race is where he shifted gears to, and that's -- that people want to fire Joe Biden for a few reasons. One is the economy. Two is immigration, and three is they don't think he's up to a second term. So you can fire up your base with the early stuff but he talked about today.
 
But the real bread and butter of this campaign is on the policy you mentioned. And he did hit those notes tonight. 
 
KEILAR: Yeah. Paul, what do you think? I mean, he was there in a border state, talking about border policy.
 
PAUL BEGALA, CNN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah. I think Scott's exactly right. I mean, I'm glad he's not working for Donald Trump. I'm glad he's working for CNN because and Kristen's report is really interesting to me and I'm sure there's to Scott because this is the tension, right? When Trump talks about all this, all his own grudges, his own grievances, his own vendettas, his own vengeance, it riles up people he's already got, but it alienates the people he needs. 
 
I think Scott's exactly right. He's -- Trump is running as a president with a low approval rating and a high cost limit. And yet, Biden is now inching ahead of Trump. It's a dead heat race, but because perhaps the trial in New York, Biden's inching ahead.
 
So this tension -- I'm betting that Trump cannot keep a focus off of himself. I may be unfair because I don't much like the guy, but he seems somewhat self-absorbed to me.
 
And Biden's message needs to be and he's been on this time, was not on it in that clip you showed us, but needs to be -- he -- Trump's in it for himself. I'm in it for you. That's very different than saying he's a crooked, he's a crooked, which he is. 
 
But instead he -- Biden needs to say and the Democrats all need to say, I'm in this for you, for your health care, your childcare, your right to choose. I'm in it for you. He's in it for himself. That's the message that wins for the Democrats. 
 
KEILAR: And, Scott, Steve Bannon it appears surprised that he is on this timeline to have to report for prison on July 1st. Today, Trump called Bannon's jail term a, quote, total and complete American tragedy. 
 
I will say you heard me with that list. I guess it's one in a series of tragedies because there are so many Trump allies who have gone to prison at this point. 
 <br>[19:10:00]
 
Does that give Republicans pause when they consider working for the Trump campaign or perspective second term?
 
JENNINGS: Well, it shouldn't because ultimately you're responsible for your own behavior. In the case of Bannon, he defined a congressional subpoena. He put forward a bogus defense of executive privilege, which did not apply to him. He worked its way through the court and now he's going to jail. 
 
I mean, he should not be surprised by the outcome here because the defense he put up for divine this opinion was invalid. So my advice to anybody going to work here for Trump, either on the campaign or in the White House, or for Biden on the campaign or in the White House, is that you and you alone are responsible for your own actions. 
 
And you and you alone know the difference between right and wrong. And you should act accordingly. And if you do, you'll be just fine. 
 
KEILAR: Paul, what do Democrats do when it seems many Americans -- and I know there's certainly a question about if enough care, but many of them, they just don't seem to care that Trump as a felon.
 
BEGALA: Right, and I think that's why the Democrats have to make this about your life, not Donald Trump's. I mean, its always, you know, I was politically right by Bill Clinton. He would always say, you know, elections are about the voters' lives not hours. And Democrats need to take this to that message of were here for you. Look, Donald Trump -- I don't care if he was in bed with Stormy Daniels, okay? He was in bed with big oil. There's been reporting that he met with all the big oil executives, asked him for a billion dollars and told them in exchange for that, he waived all of our environmental laws for them. Now, that's something that affects you and me, you know? 
 
So, I'm not very interested in Mr. Trump's personal problems. I'm interested in the lives and families of the American people. 
 
I would say to Steve Bannon when he said they're not going to shut me up. That is music to my ears. I don't want to shut up, Steve Bannon. I don't want to shut up Donald Trump. They're the best asset that Democrats have because the more they talk about this many conspiracy stuff, which raises them money, riles up their base, it alienates those voters who voted for Nikki Haley, who 20 percent of Republicans consistently are protest votes against Trump, and they will not come home with all that nutty conspiracy stuff. 
 
So I'm on record now. Steve Bannon, keep talking, brother, keep talking. Don't shut up ever. 
 
KEILAR: Scott, changing subjects a bit here. I do want to play an exchange that President Biden had with ABC News. This is about his son Hunter, who, of course, is on trial right now on gun charges in a criminal court. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
INTERVIEWER: Let me ask you, will you accept the jury's outcome, their verdict no matter what it is? 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Yes. 
 
INTERVIEWER: And have you ruled out a pardon for your son?
 
BIDEN: Yes. 
 
INTERVIEWER: You have?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: What do -- what do you think of that answer there, Scott? 
 
JENNINGS: Well, he has to say that today. I'm skeptical. He also didn't say he was ruling out a commutation but once you get past November, win or lose, Joe Biden will never face the American voters again. And once you get free of that burden, you could -- you could make a lot of different decisions and we know how much he cares about that his son, and we know how much he likes to think of himself as a protector for his family. And it would be very difficult, I think for a father to see a son sitting in jail, particularly when last summer, Joe Biden said on the record in an interview, my son hasn't done anything wrong.
 
So color me skeptical, but I understand why he would say that in the middle of a campaign.
 
KEILAR: Paul?
 
BEGALA: Well, color me admiring. I've known Joe Biden a long time. I don't know Hunter, but I knew his older son, Beau, the late Beau Biden. There's no better father in America than Joe Biden. I'm a dad, Scott's a dad. You're a mom. We all love our children.
 
And what Joe Biden just said is, I'm going to put my country ahead of my kid, and he means -- I know the man. And he's over there now honoring the men who died in Normandy on June 6, 1945, at D-Day. Every one of them had a mom and dad who put their country ahead of their child. Every -- every parent who sends a kid into the military today is putting their country ahead of their child. 
 
So what Joe Biden is doing is in the finest tradition of American parenthood. And I know he's telling the truth. So I'm really moved though, because it shows me that the thing he loves most in life, as much as he loves his kids more than any parent I know, he loves his country even more. And that says something about his character.
 
KEILAR: Paul, Scott, thank you so much to both of you tonight. Appreciate it. 
 
BEGALA: Can I just shout out? My Texas Longhorn softball team, we're playing for the championship tonight, and World Series, Women World Series. Hook 'em Horns!
 
KEILAR: All right. There you go. Thanks, guys.
 
JENNINGS: Put some homework.
 
KEILAR: OUTFRONT next, Republicans reportedly turning their backs and booing Capitol Hill police officers who were being honored for protecting the Capitol on January 6. This happened in Pennsylvania. One of those officers who is heckled is next.
 
Plus, President Biden marking 80 years since D-Day and his message, democracy is once again under attack by Vladimir Putin.
 <br>[19:15:04]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: Here, in Europe. We see one stark example, Ukraine has been invaded by a tyrant bent on domination.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: And Beau Biden's widow takes the stand. What she said about her tumultuous relationship with her late husband's brother, Hunter Biden.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Tonight, two police officers who protected the Capitol on January 6 booed by Republican state lawmakers. 
 
Watch what happened in Pennsylvania while the two were honored for their heroic actions. 
 <br>[19:20:03]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFED FEMALE: They are traveling the nation and sharing their stories to raise awareness to the threats of democracy in our nation, Sergeant Gonell, and Officer Dunn, please stand. Welcome to the floor of the House.
 
(CHEERS)
 
(BOOS)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Now you could hear some those boos while Aquilino Gonell and Harry Dunn, were being introduced there. One Democratic representative tweeting, quote, a number of house Republicans literally booed, hissed and walked off the floor -- there is no bottom. 
 
And the House speaker who introduced the officers telling "The Washington Post" that Republicans also turned their backs on them and called their behavior shameful OUTFRONT. 
 
OUTFRONT now, retired sergeant and Iraq War veteran, Aquilino Gonell. He is one of the officers from January 6 who are now campaigning for Joe Biden in key swing states. He's also the author of "American Shield: The Immigrant Sergeant Who Defended Democracy".
 
Sergeant, thank you for being with us.
 
And first, just tell us your experience, what it was like for you as you were there in that chamber? 
 
SGT. AQUILINO GONELL (RET.), FORMER CAPITOL POLICE SERGEANT INJURED IN JANUARY 6 ATTACK: Thanks for having me on your show, Brianna.
 
You know, it's shocking, but yet not surprising. I come to expect that type of behavior from the same elected officials who has sided with the insurrectionist, people who attack the police officers, yet at the same time using the campaign slogan that they back the blue and the same time, and at the same breath, turning their back on us, because what we do on January 6, we didn't do it for that Democrat or Republican. 
 
We did it because it was our job and we kept by off (ph), and for our mere presence because we're not even -- we're supposed to be speaking at all, we would just being in the chamber to see that the House, how they work, then they're going how it works and because of that, they felt offended and began jeering at us, and turning their back on us. At the same time, telling us that they support the police. KEILAR: Were you able to speak with any Republicans? Maybe who booed
 
 or who turned their back or who walked out on you or even ones who didn't?
 
GONELL: Some of them they did approach us. I think the minority leader, Bryan Cutler, if I I'm not mistaken his name, he did came and apologized for the behavior of his colleagues, you know? 
 
But just to the point that they had to -- they can even come to themselves to the term that reality exists that, you know, they had to contort themselves to believe a lie and abandon truth. Again, we were not there to make a statement on the floor. We would just watch seeing how they're going to work and they honor all the people especially kids that were there being honored and be represented by their colleagues that they brought in and they applauded. 
 
They stood up and cheered those people. But when it comes to us, they didn't.
 
KEILAR: You are now out campaigning for Joe Biden. Obviously, Pennsylvania is a critical state here, but I wonder because we've heard former President Trump talk about revenge and retribution. You've been very vocal when it comes to opposing him. 
 
Do you worry at all that he may target you because of how you have criticized him?
 
GONELL: Look, when I first began to speak, I was being neutral in things, you know, about what happened, about my experience, about what I did, what we did on the Capitol but Joe Biden, is not the one offering pardons for the same people who attacked the law enforcement officers and myself. I was injured. I sustained multiple injuries on that day, too severe enough to require surgeries and years of mental health and physical therapy.
 
Joe Biden is not the one saying that he's going to suspend the Constitution. He's not the one standing up in his rally in telling the people to rise up, to listen a made-up national anthem, modified national anthem created by convicted felons, people who assaulted me and my colleagues. 
 
So it was an easy decision that the Republicans made for me, because the same time we tried to talk to those Republicans and look what happened yesterday in Harrisburg. They walk out, not even -- not even giving us a chance to talk and have a conversation because they didn't like January 6 at all. 
 
KEILAR: What would your message be to them? Those who obviously you didn't get to speak to, who walked out or booed you?
 <br>[19:25:03]
 
GONELL: I mean, you cannot be so detached from reality and abandoned truth, to the point that you don't -- you can't even acknowledge that something bad happened in the Capitol, and the officer like myself because I was an officer and they again, they use the slogan that they respect the police, that they back the blue, that they are supporting of law and order officers, and yet not a single one of them, of those that walked out had the respect and decency to come and have a conversation with us. 
 
You could find -- it could -- you know what? You support Donald Trump. That's great. But don't tell me that my reality, my truth, what happened to me they didn't happen because it did happen. And I had the videos, the picture, the medical bills, the mental health treatment, and all this stuff, that, you know, if we -- I had done anything, are those things that I had that I did on January 6 against any other group, there will be relishing me and praising me for the efforts that I did, and actually being honored to be in my presence.
 
KEILAR: Really quickly before I let you go, Steve Bannon been ordered to report to prison by July 1st, which, of course, former President Trump has opposed very vociferously. Do you think that he belongs in jail for not speaking to the January 6 committee? 
 
I mean, he chose -- that's the decision he made himself. You know, I'm pretty sure that soon we're going to hear that he's a political hostage himself, you know? He makes the decision for himself and he thought that he was above the law. And unfortunately, he -- he went through the court system and a jury of his peers and the judge found him guilty, and therefore, he needs to pay for the consequences that he did, just like the same people that assaulted me -- more than 23 of them, also -- more than 40 officer -- I mean, rioter attack me on January 6. I've gone through the court multiple times, 23. 
 
I just finished a statement for one another rioter that assaulted me, that he's going to be sentenced in the near future and two weeks ago, another one got sentenced 14 years for assaulting multiple officers. 
 
So those people claimed, again, that they support law and order. But yet every single time that they had the chance to submit to the law and order system that they claim to respect, then the challenge and lose every single time because they do the opposite. 
 
KEILAR: Officer Aquilino Gonell, thank you so much for being with us tonight.
 
GONELL: Thanks for having me.
 
KEILAR: And OUTFRONT next, President Biden warning democracy is in grave danger again, as he marks 80 years since D-Day.
 
Plus, emotional testimony from Beau Biden's widow as she took the stand in Hunter Biden's trial.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:32:20]
 
KEILAR: Tonight, we will not walk away. President Biden declaring his ironclad commitment to Ukraine, warning that abandonment during the war would only emboldened Russia further.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: We will not walk away because if we do, Ukraine will be subjugated and it will not end there. Ukraine's neighbors will be threatened, all of Europe will be threatened.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Biden's promise coming as he commemorated the 80th anniversary of D-Day, tying the sacrifices made on that day to the, quote, unending fight between freedom and democracy, which is now playing out in Ukraine. 
 
Fred Pleitgen is OUTFRONT.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): As the U.S. and its allies celebrate the heroes who stormed the beaches of Normandy, 80 years ago, President Joe Biden warning, freedom in Europe and the world are under attack again, this time by Russia.
 
BIDEN: The struggle between dictatorship and freedom is unending. Here in Europe, we see one stark example. Ukraine has been invaded by a tyrant bent on domination. 
 
PLEITGEN: While Russian leader Vladimir Putin was once again, not invited to the commemoration, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was on hand, likening Ukraine struggle to fend off Russia's invasion to the Allies war against Nazi Germany.
 
As Russia intensifies its attacks against Ukraine, often using heavy aerial bombs, the Biden administration has given Kyiv the go-ahead to hit the Russians back in Russian territory using some U.S. supplied- weapons like the HIMARS multiple rocket launchers.
 
An angry Putin saying NATO risks of full-on war with Russia, but that Moscow might also give arms to U.S. adversaries around the world. 
 
Why would we not have the right to supply our weapons of the same class to those regions of the world where there will be strikes on the sensitive facilities of those countries that are doing this against Russia?
 
But President Biden, making clear, Ukraine can only use U.S. supplied- weapons to hit Russian territory close to the front lines, the president said in an interview with ABC.
 
BIDEN: We're not talking about giving weapons to strike Moscow, to strike the Kremlin, to strike against -- just across the border where they're receiving significant fire from conventional weapons. 
 <br>[19:35:00]
 
PLEITGEN: Kremlin-controlled media irate, mocking Biden's comments. OLGA SKABEEVA, RUSSIAN TV HOST (through translator): Every time you
 
 have to make reference to age, this, of course, is not ageism on our part, and not mockery, just speech. It seems to me that we should already talk about cruelty quoting to the elderly. 
 
PLEITGEN: And while Putin claims he would work with if any U.S. administration after the presidential election in November, the Russian leader repeating unsubstantiated claims by Donald Trump that recent hush money trial the former president just lost was politically motivated. 
 
For the rest of the world, it is evidenced that prosecution of Trump in court over allegations related to events that happened years ago without any direct proof, Putin said, this is purely using the court system for political purposes. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): You know, Brianna, Vladimir Putin coming out and saying that Russia could send weapons to the vicinity of countries that are supporting Ukraine, but the Cuban government tonight is coming out and saying they expect a group of Russian warships to visit that island in the coming days, including a nuclear powered submarine. Now, the Cubans are saying none of the Russian ships are actually carrying nuclear weapons. 
 
We've reached out to the Russian government, but so far have not gotten any comment -- Brianna.
 
KEILAR: All right. Fred Pleitgen, thank you for that report.
 
And OUTFRONT now, retired Army Lieutenant General Mark Hertling.
 
And, General, you hear the president there insisting that Ukraine can only use U.S. weapons for these limited strikes just inside of Russia over the border from Kharkiv. Do you think though that the U.S. might eventually need to allow Ukraine to expand the use of those weapons?
 
LT. GEN. MARK HERTLING (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: It's possible, Briana, but what the president was talking about today was what we in the military would call either tactical or operational deep strikes. What those are, are methods to interfere with any potential effects of the opponent on the battlefield, to hit them before they are able to use the kind of equipment it would have effect on the tactical fight. 
 
As Russia has executed this war, they have moved their equipment further and further back from the front lines. And they have been unmolested. I think the president is right in giving the potential use of these kinds of weapons to hit these operational targets within the perimeter of the Russian attacks on the frontline of Ukraine. 
 
KEILAR: Putin is warning that supplying weapons to Ukraine is a dangerous step. He says, any country that does so is, quote, directly involved in war against Russia. What do you think Putin would actually do to retaliate against the U.S. or do you think this is just bluster? HERTLING: Well, I believe is just bluster. Brianna. I have not kept
 
 track of Mr. Putin's -- the number of times Mr. Putin has said this is going to cause some kind of catastrophic effect, and he's implying the use of either tactical or strategic nuclear weapons. But he has been saying this for the past two plus years. 
 
So I think the Biden administration realized that it's a bluff and it's a bluster and he won't do that because he knows what might happen if he does. 
 
So I think it is continuing bluster and it's -- the very fact that he has now become increasingly a war criminal based on the kinds of tactics that he's using and going after Ukrainian infrastructure and Ukrainian civilians. I think Mr. Putin is trying to put up a veil of domination and it's not working very well.
 
KEILAR: It was such a moving commemoration today in Normandy. I know you were watching part of this to the 80th anniversary of D-Day. Biden talking about the, quote, unending fight between freedom and democracy. You were, of course, the commanding general of the U.S. Army, Europe and the Seventh Army. And you have a special connection to Europe.
 
What do you think on this anniversary, the beginning of Europe's liberation of World War II? 
 
HERTLING: Well, I wasn't watching, Brianna, but I was listening to CNN as I was driving from Gettysburg to Washington, D.C. after doing a staff rite at Gettysburg. But it was an extremely emotional and moving ceremony. 
 
It was tremendous. The words of each one of the speakers to include some of my friends like Secretary Austin and Secretary Djou, who's the president or the secretary of the American Battle Monuments Commission that takes care of the cemeteries all year long, were just extremely moving and dedicated to democracy, not only in what happened 80 years ago and the commemoration of that event, but what might happen in the future.
 
And it's been terrific having had experiences multiple well times at Normandy, both on Memorial Days and D-Day celebrations. It just brought back a lot of memories of the young men I will say that I used to meet there who were veterans of this fight.
 
KEILAR: Yeah. They had some of those young men jumping into the beach. It was pretty amazing to watch. You have to go back and see it. It was some pretty extraordinary visuals.
 
General, it's great to have you. General Hertling, thank you so much. 
 
HERTLING: Always a pleasure. Brianna, thank you very much. 
 
KEILAR: And OUTFRONT next, dramatic testimony today in Hunter Biden's trial, his late brother's widow, Hallie Biden, taking the stand, speaking about her romantic relationship with Hunter and the gun that's at the center of the trial. [19:40:09]
 
Plus, new murder charges for the alleged Gilgo Beach serial killer as we are learning grisly details about the methods investigators say he used to kill his victims.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: New tonight, embarrassed and ashamed, those words coming from Hallie Biden on the stand today on Hunter Biden's trial. The widow of Beau Biden testifying about how she abused crack cocaine after Hunter Biden introduced her to the drug in 2018, when the two were romantically involved, part of the prosecution's bid to try to show Hunter Biden was using drugs when he allegedly lied about his drug use to buy a gun. 
 <br>[19:45:09]
 
Let's go right to Evan Perez, our senior justice correspondent, who was in the courtroom all day today. 
 
Evan, a very emotional day of testimony from Hallie Biden. How do you think the jury reacted to it? 
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brianna, the fact that she is the star witness, I think you could tell that from the jurors. The jurors who are sitting forward in their seats some of them who don't normally take notes were absolutely taking notes during her testimony, she spent much of the day on the stand and, look, part of what she brought for the prosecution is that she brings testimony about possible use of drugs, Hunter Biden's possible use of drugs into October of 2018, which is when he bought this gun. 
 
And October 12, 2018 is when he bought the gun and really she's the only witness that can that has testified that she believes he was using drugs, using cocaine, crack cocaine on October 22nd or 23rd. Now, under cross-examination, she acknowledged that she didn't actually see him using crack cocaine that day or that night. She only believes she did -- he did because of his behaviors. So that is something I think the defense and certainly has going in their favor. 
 
What we did see from the prosecution, we saw video of Hallie Biden on October 23rd, 11 days after he bought the gun. She had found it in his car. She said she found what she thought was residue and she was worried about him. 
 
She said, I was -- I didn't want him to harm himself and I didn't want my kids to find it and to harm themselves. And so, she says, you can see in the video, she shows up at a parking at a supermarket and throws it in a trash can and then hours later shows up panicking as she's trying to find it and doesn't encounter it. That's a big part of this case, Brianna. 
 
KEILAR: And the prosecution, Evan, is expected to rest tomorrow after calling a few more witnesses. What do we know so far about what the defense plans to do? PEREZ: Well, we expect that the defense is going to be able to start
 
 their case on Friday afternoon. We heard from them in the past, certainly in the openings. Abbe Lowell said that he anticipates putting Jimmy Biden, the president's brother, on the stand, as well as Naomi Biden -- Hunter Biden's daughter so we expect that those two are among the witnesses that they plan to bring two as part of their case. 
 
What they also suggested also though, is that they have not made a decision on whether Hunter Biden will take the stand in his own defense. That's something that they say might happen perhaps next week. 
 
So, we'll be here next week in Wilmington for the conclusion, we anticipate of this trial, Bianna.
 
KEILAR: Yeah, certainly be looking for that.
 
Evan Perez, thank you so much for that report. 
 
And OUTFRONT next, more charges against the suspected Gilgo Beach serial killer as prosecutors reveal chilling details about his alleged blueprint for murder.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:52:49]
 
KEILAR: Tonight, shocking new details revealed as the suspected Gilgo Beach serial killer is charged with two more murders. Rex Heuermann, the married father of two and former architect now accused of killing six women, spanning three decades. This as we're learning about a planning document allegedly found on Heuermann's personal computer. The document which you can see here maps out grisly murders in excruciating detail. 
 
And I do want to warn you that what you are about to see in here is disturbing.
 
Brynn Gingras is OUTFRONT.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Authorities revealing new evidence today, including a manifesto containing chilling details of how they say accused Gilgo Beach serial killer Rex Heuermann planned the murders and in one case, the dismemberment of his victims. 
 
The former architect now charged with two more murders, Jessica Taylor killed in 2003 and Sandra Costilla in 1993.
 
RAYMOND TIERNEY, SUFFOLK COUNTY, NY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: His intent was specifically to locate these victims to hunt them down, and to bring them to bring them under his control and to kill them.
 
GINGRAS: Heuermann already charged with the killings of these four women infamously known as the Gilgo Four, discovered along the same stretch of Long Island highway more than a decade ago. 
 
There were audible gasps in the courtroom as prosecutors introduced a word document found on a laptop in March, described as a gruesome blueprint for serial killings. Prosecutors say Heuermann created it in 2000 and modified it over years before trying to delete it.
 
TIERNEY: In that document is in some cases identical to the methodology used to murder the six victims in this case. 
 
GINGRAS: Court papers show it had sections and how to dispose of a body, avoid getting caught and what supplies may be needed, with horrific detail like hit harder. Remember, don't charge gas, more sleep and noise control equal more play time. And use pushpins to hang drop clothes. 
 
TIERNEY: We went back into the house. We also found an area where they were pushpins into the drop ceiling.
 
GINGRAS: It even included a morbid section on lessons learned and things to remember like use heavy rope for neck, light robe, broke under stress of being tightened. 
 <br>[19:55:03]
 
Heuermann remained unemotional as this new evidence was revealed in court, he pleaded not guilty to all the murders.
 
BROWN: New charges are always horrific and, yeah, he's in a bad place in terms of the new charges.
 
GINGRAS: Twenty-year-old Taylor was decapitated and her dismembered body was found in 2003. Nearly eight years later, Taylor's skull, hands and forearm were found near the dumpsite of the Gilgo four victims where Heuermann's truck was seen by witnesses.
 
Investigators say Heuermann was also in the same area where Taylor made one of her last calls to her mother. Her mother cried as the new allegations were read. 
 
JASMINE ROBINSON, COUSIN OF SUSPECTED VICTIM OF GILGO BEACH SERIAL KILLER: This year has been 21 years since she was taken from us, longer than the chance that she got to be alive. 
 
GINGRAS: Advanced DNA technology was used to connect Heuermann to hairs found on remains of both Taylor and Costilla, according to the court paperwork. Costilla's naked and mutilated body was found in a wooded area in Southampton in 1993. She may have been Heuermann's first alleged victim.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KEILAR: And, Brynn, how does this change the investigation? Could we maybe see even more charges?
 
GINGRAS: Yeah, Brianna. I mean, it's obvious that this investigation has expanded on several levels, not only with the discovery of that manifesto, as prosecutors call it, but also new evidence. Investigators covered 350 additional electronic devices, we're talking cameras, computers, cell phones, all in new searches. 
 
So there is this possibility that maybe there are more victims that will be identified in the future, maybe more closure for some of these families who are waiting for answers. In the meantime, Heuermann, he's back in court next month -- Brianna.
 
KEILAR: All right. We'll be looking for that. 
 
Brynn, thank you for that report. 
 
I'm joined now by Casey Jordan. She's a criminologist, a behavioral analyst, and an attorney.
 
And, Casey, this planning document in this indictment -- allegedly superseding indictment allegedly found on Heuermann's computer. What stands out to you? 
 
CASEY JORDAN, CNN CRIMINOLOGIST: The level of detail and how it matches what the forensics has revealed already, apart from the fact that, you know, he had already been charged with the first four women found at Gilgo Beach, his attorneys have been arguing -- well, these other victims were mutilated and the ones that Gilgo Beach have not been mutilated. So it doesn't fit the M.O. It's got to be somebody else. 
 
And, of course, that's the best defense they have, keep hoping and pretending it's somebody else who did this, but now that we have a document found on Heuermann's computer, which details exactly what he did and learning from those mistakes like use thicker rope, remember to dispose of gloves, remember to check your tire tracks. The thing about the push pins with the drop cloths. 
 
This really kind of lays out for us how these women may have died, perhaps it was in his own home. And the fact that he tried to get rid of these documents and that they were still found on the computer memory is really going to be in connection with the DNA, a kind of nail in the coffin for this.
 
KEILAR: Yeah, the DNA -- 
 
JORDAN: I don't know if the defense can overcome this. 
 
KEILAR: That's what I was going to say. And the DNA is just so definitive here. He's still maintaining his innocence, of course.
 
How is this, though, in court?
 
JORDAN: Well, the DNA came from a minimum of one hair and, of course, his attorneys are saying one hair, one hair is not reasonable, but whether the hair is his or belongs to his wife, it shows transference.
 
And the DNA, you can try to attack in court, but when you have DNA, plus a manifesto, again with details that show he learned from his mistakes and dates the killings back to 2000, I think that these two things combined are going to be very difficult for the defense to overcome. And it makes me wonder, especially since Heuermann's wife was not in court today and she's been supportive in the past, but maybe her absence today speaks volumes. 
 
It wouldn't surprise me if Heuermann does begin to think perhaps a plea bargain is in his best interest.
 
KEILAR: Her absence as well during these murders, that's pointed out in the superseding indictment, the pattern of her being out of town with the kids, this began or at least with one of these this began of course, with four alleged murders. Now you've got six alleged murderers. 
 
Do you think there are more victims out there? How many more do you think?
 
JORDAN: Well, we've had 10 murders that we believe are linked. We've gone from four charges to six charges, the remaining four that we are attributing to him as a suspect may or may not be charged. 
 
But I can almost guarantee you that they're going to be more than ten. He is smart enough to stretch his murders out to really do enough planning. The document proves that so that he could avoid a cooling off period that might fit a pattern. 
 
He very meticulously work to change his pattern by becoming more organized. But that means that there could be murders out there outside of the Long Island, or New York area because we know he was an avid hunter that may never be attributed to him.
 
I think ten is a minimum. We may never know the answer to that and they may never be charged, but I think that we are all thinking more expansively based on these new findings. 
 
KEILAR: Wow, these details we learned that they are just terrific.
 
But we certainly appreciate you, Casey Jordan, and your insights into this. Thank you so much.
 
JORDAN: Always great to be here.
 
KEILAR: And thank you so much for joining us. 
 
"AC360" starts now.