Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: G7 Leaders Gather In Capri; EU Council Meeting In Brussels; Qatar To Conduct "Comprehensive Evaluation" Of Its Mediation Role; Jordan Hospital: Eight Members Of A Family Killed In Rafah Airstrike. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired April 18, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
KATE BOLDUAN, HOST, "CNN NEWS CENTRAL": As Donald Trump heads back to court for day three of jury selection, did he just go after the jury? We are live outside the courthouse with more. Real questions this morning after a widespread 911 outage that's impacted four states. And a multimillion dollar gold heist, why police are now saying it was an inside job. I'm Kate Bolduan, with Sara Sidner and John -- 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, HOST, "CNN NEWSROOM": Hello everyone, and welcome to our viewers all around the world. I'm Fredricka Whitfield, and this is the CNN Newsroom. 
 
Straight ahead, this hour, Donald Trump is expected to leave Trump Tower in Manhattan as jury selection in his criminal trial resumes. We will have full coverage. Plus, an intense day of diplomacy in Europe. Foreign ministers of the G7 gather in Italy to discuss the conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, an update on where talks stand. And then, we'll have a live report from the Dubai Airport, which is grappling with the aftermath of the record-breaking storm that is impacting travel worldwide.
 
This hour, all eyes are on New York City where jury selection in Donald Trump's historic hush money trial is set to resume. We're expecting the former President to travel from Trump Tower to that courthouse in lower Manhattan shortly. The court was not in session on Wednesday, but will be today and tomorrow. So far, seven jurors have been seated. Judge Juan Merchan is looking for a total of 12 jurors plus up to six alternates, and we have much more on Trump's first criminal trial coming up in just a few minutes. 
 
But first, diplomacy is the focus on two different fronts today amid the ongoing war in Ukraine and increasing tensions between Israel and Iran. G7 foreign ministers are meeting in Capri, Italy, right now. And as he arrived, the EU's foreign policy chief warned that the Middle East is on the edge of regional war. Meanwhile, that unfolding crisis threatens to overshadow a two-day EU summit in Brussels, designed to focus on the bloc's economic competitiveness. 
 
CNN's Barbie Nadeau is joining me right now live from Rome. So, let's begin with the Middle East, Barbie. There is urgency to prevent a larger regional conflict between Israel and Iran. BARBIE NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: Yeah. And the foreign ministers who are meeting on the island of Capri off of Naples, yesterday, today and tomorrow, have really three things that they've got to deal with when it comes to the Middle East. They're trying to urge Israel to show restraint in their retaliation for what was a retaliatory attack, drone attack on their country last weekend. They're also trying to determine just what kind of sanctions, whether these are targeted sanctions to levy on Iran right now, not all the countries necessarily agree because they have different relationships with Iran. 
 
And the third very important issue that they're trying to deal with is this ongoing humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Now, this would have probably been the main topic of conversation that in the war in Ukraine had the attacks on Israel not happened last week. But, these foreign ministers are doing everything they can, both in the roundtables they're serving and they're hosting, and also, of course, on the sidelines of these meetings, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: And Barbie, Ukraine is also at the top of the agenda. What are we expecting?
 
NADEAU: Yeah. We've had a lot of -- coming out of this G7 so far on Ukraine of the G7 foreign ministers. Secretary of State Antony Blinken actually met with the Foreign Minister of Ukraine, who was an invited guest, and had some pretty harsh words to say after they met. Let's listen to what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: If Putin is allowed to proceed with impunity, we know he won't stop at Ukraine, and we can safely predict that his aggression will continue. Other would-be aggressors around the world will take note and unleash their own aggressions, and we will have a world of conflict, not a world of peace and security.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NADEAU: And when you listen to that, it's a very ominous sort of look ahead, and this foreign ministers G7 meeting, of course, leads the way to the big G7 meeting that will be held in the southern region of Apulia with leaders of the G7 nations in June of this year. And as it goes right now, what they're talking about right now can be very different. It could be a very different world we're looking at by the time June rolls around. Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. Barbie Nadeau, thank you so much from Rome. 
 
Right now to the Israel-Hamas war where there are reports of extensive damage after Israeli troops withdrew from one refugee camp in Gaza. A Gaza official says roads were reduced to rubble, and 20,000 tons of waste accumulated in the streets causing rat problems. Separately in Rafah, hospital officials say eight members from one family were killed in an Israeli strike overnight, including five children. 
 <br>[08:05:00] This as the UN agency for Palestinian refugees warned again that a man-made famine is tightening its grip across Gaza. Meanwhile, Qatar says it will evaluate its role as a mediator for a ceasefire and hostage release talks. 
 
CNN's Jeremy Diamond is joining us right now live from Tel Aviv. Good morning to you, Jeremy. So, Qatar says it is going to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its mediation role between Israel and Hamas. What does that mean?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Fredricka. This is really interesting, particularly given the timing it comes as we have launched these negotiations butter and start over the course of the last several weeks. And in just the last few days, we saw a major backslide as Hamas offered less than half of the number of hostages that have been the basis of the negotiations over the course of the last several months, bringing down its offer from 40 hostages for a six-week ceasefire to less than 20 over that same period of time, also demanding more Palestinian prisoners be released in exchange for those hostages. 
 
And so, in light of all of this, Qatar is coming under enormous pressure, mounting pressure from the United States in particular, to apply more pressure itself to Hamas, which maintains a serious position within Qatar where Ismail Haniyeh, Hamas' leader, currently lives. 
 
And so, Qatar's Foreign Minister, who also happens to be its Prime Minister, saying that Qatar is going to undertake a full evaluation of its role as a mediator citing a quote "misuse of this mediation for narrow political interests." And it appears to be related to the fact that the United States and Israel are calling on Qatar to level serious pressure on Hamas beyond what it has already done, and suggesting effectively, as Steny Hoyer, a top Democratic political leader in the United States said, that if Qatar doesn't put enough pressure on Hamas, then there should be a reevaluation of the United States relationship with Qatar as well. 
 
So, amid all of that pressure, Qatar saying that it's going to reevaluate its role as a mediator. Unclear exactly where that will lead. Of course, we know that beyond Qatar, Egypt has also served the key role as a mediator. So, we'll see whether or not Qatar's status changes in the coming days and weeks. 
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Jeremy, let's not lose sight. The situation inside Gaza, what is the latest on the ground there?
 
DIAMOND: Well, I think it's really important not to lose sight of what is happening in Gaza, as we have been concentrating over the course of the last week on this kind of broader geopolitical issue of Iran and Israel. We know, of course, that we are still waiting to see how and when Israel may retaliate against Iran for its attack against Israel over the weekend. But, over the course of the last week, as those deliberations have been happening, Israel's military campaign in Gaza has continued, killing dozens of people, including on Tuesday a particularly gruesome strike that killed eight children in one single strike in Al-Maghazi. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): A moment frozen in time, the bodies of at least four children splayed around the foosball table, laughter and shrieks of joy silenced in an instance, blood now marking where they stood only minutes earlier. Shaheed (ph), no way, Shaheed, my beloved, her cousin screens from behind the camera, 10-year-old Shaheed is one of those children, her bright pink pants unmistakable in the arms of the man carrying her away. With her family's consent, CNN has decided to show Shaheed in life and death in order to give a face to this war's deadly impact on children. 
 
At Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital, those who can still be saved arrive alongside those who cannot. Amid the chaos, Shaheed's pink pants dangling as a doctor confirms what is tragically obvious. But, Shaheed is not alone. She is one of eight children who died on that crowded street in Al-Maghazi. The hospital says they were killed in an Israeli airstrike. By publication time, the Israeli military said only that the incident is under review. One after another, their small bodies arrive at the hospitals more, and into the arms of grieving parents. 
 
His eyes swollen in red, the father of nine-year-old Lujain (ph) recounts his daughter's last moments, playing foosball with her friends. This is my eldest daughter, he says. A drone strike hit them while they were playing. 
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
They are all children. Hours earlier, Yousef (ph) was one of those children, playing alongside Shaheed and Lujain, when he was suddenly killed in a war he did not choose. His mother still clinging to her son, neither does this boy who cannot believe his brother is dead. He is still alive, he cries. Don't leave him here. Amid the outpourings of grief, there is Shaheed, her blood stained pink pants once again impossible to miss. Dear God, what did they all do? One man cries. What did they all do?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)          
 
DIAMOND: And Fred, we rarely choose to show the face of the dead in our reports, but we did so in this case because we felt it was important to highlight the impact that this war has had on children, and with her family's consent. This war has had an impact on children unlike anything that we have seen in modern warfare. Nearly 14,000 children have been killed over the last six months during this war. A child is killed or is injured every 10 minutes in Gaza. These are not just numbers, of course, but individuals, children. Their dreams shattered forever. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. Jeremy, right. It is hard to watch but it is important to be seen, to be revealed. Jeremy Diamond, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Back in the States now, we now turn to Donald Trump's legal mess. All of the cases against him have moved at a snail's pace so far. But, now that jury selection has begun in his first actual trial, things are really speeding up. Day three now of jury selection in Trump's hush money case will get underway in less than two hours from now. Remarkably, seven jurors have already been seated for the case. The judge says he wants 12 jurors and probably six alternates. He thinks they could have them all in place by the end of this week, and that means opening statements could come Monday. Trump should be on his way to the courthouse very soon. And along the route is our Kristen Holmes. So, Kristen, what are we expecting the process to be at that courthouse today?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Fredricka. Well, as you noted, there are seven jurors seated and they need 12 total and around six alternates. So, what we're going to see is basically a rehash of what we saw earlier in the week. This morning, the judge is going to bring in 96 new potential jurors. The first thing he is going to ask, are there people here who believe they can't be impartial? Now, remember, what happened last time is more than 50 percent of the people said they were not able to be fair and impartial in this jury because of the fact that Donald Trump was the defendant here. So, that is expected to weed out several people. 
 
Then he is going to ask if there are any other reasons that people think that they can't serve on this jury. No real questions asked. But, if people raise their hand, they will then be dismissed. Then we get into that questionnaire. It starts just with the judge going through the questionnaire, talking to these jurors. And as we have discussed, this is not your average questionnaire. Sure. It has the questions, as your name, what do you do for work? Where do you consume your news? That's when it starts to turn into what exactly this case is. You also get questions as to whether or not you've ever been to a Trump rally. Have you ever worked for Donald Trump? Have you ever been to an event that was anti-Donald Trump? That will also weed out these potential jurors. 
 
As they move forward, we'll start to see that cross-examination again by the lawyers. And a reminder here that Donald Trump's team as well as the prosecutors only have four strikes left. They were both given 10 strikes. This means that they can just get rid of a juror for no real reason. They don't have to explain it in any way. But, they only have four left, which is likely to make this move even faster, because they're not going to waste the strikes here on perhaps things that they think are small details of something they don't like about a potential juror. 
 
I will say, we have heard Donald Trump complaining about the jury already, having not actually sat through the trial. He is saying they can't be fair. He said all he is looking for an ideal juror, someone who can be fair. He actually posted something on social media, which will be interesting to see if it comes up in court today. He was repeating a Fox News anchor when he said, "They are catching undercover Liberal Activists lying to the Judge in order to get on the Trump Jury." And Fredricka, I do want to be clear here. While this is something that Donald Trump has said could happen or would happen, it is not something that is factually accurate. We have no proof at all that this is what is happening here in the courtroom. But, as you noted, the judge said we could be done with jury selection
 
 by the end of the week, which would mean that next week you would hear those opening arguments. 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
Sometimes, it takes a long time to get one single juror. Sometimes, we've seen, as we saw last -- two days ago, it took a very short time to get six jurors seated. So, it'll be interesting to see how this plays out here today. And Fredricka. I will tell you, we should expect Donald Trump to stop at the cameras both going in and out of the courtroom today. As we know, he is still running that campaign. He is still treating this courtroom like a campaign stop. 
 
WHITFIELD: Right. That is the expectation. He does like to do that. And it'll be interesting to see what he says, and he does like to come really, really close to that line of that gag order in place. All right. Kristen Holmes, thank you so much, in lower Manhattan. We'll check back with you. 
 
All right. It could be Democrats that save the Republican House Speaker's job. That's the question after Mike Johnson announced plans to hold a vote this Saturday on four separate foreign aid bills. The separate bills are aimed at satisfying far-right House Republicans, but Johnson says he will combine them before sending them to the U.S. Senate. And that may further anger right-wing Republicans who already want to fire him over his handling of the issue. If a motion to oust Johnson is put forth, he may have to reach out to the Democrats to keep him on the post. 
 
Lauren Fox is joining us now from Capitol Hill with more on this story. Lauren, Speaker Johnson seems to be on the brink of maybe losing his job, or maybe there is going to be an incredible save. So, why are some of these far-right Republicans so unhappy with him?
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. They're frustrated about him moving forward with aid to Ukraine. That is the bottom line. And despite the fact that Johnson has tried to make this bill look slightly different than what the Senate passed, the reality is it's largely the same with a couple of small tweaks. One of those is the process of having this $10 billion loan program for Ukraine. The argument from Johnson is that this is an important development in this process. This is something that Donald Trump had suggested he was interested in. But, the problem for hardliners is that $10 billion loan is forgivable. The administration, Joe Biden, the President, can unilaterally decide to forgive that loan in about two years' time. That is not good enough for many hardliners. 
 
But, underscoring all of this is the fact that nothing may have been good enough for those hardliners when it came to Ukraine aid. This package is roughly $95 billion. $61 billion of it is going to Ukraine. And the expectation is that Johnson is going to need Democrats over the course of the next several days to get this to the floor and a procedural vote known as a rule vote. It's also expected he is going to need Democrats to pass this. It's also expected that he may need Democrats to save his job. There are already two Democrats who have publicly said that they would be willing to help Mike Johnson that they do not want to see the House devolve into the kind of chaos, a three-week Speaker race that they saw after Kevin McCarthy lost his job in October. 
 
But, the question then becomes, how effective can Mike Johnson be as a Republican Speaker? Does he want to stay in the job if Democrats were required to save him? These are all questions that depend on whether or not Marjorie Taylor Greene, the Republican who has been expressing frustration with Johnson for weeks, whether she actually moves forward with some kind of effort to oust him. She could bring that resolution. It's privileged at any time. But, she has not tipped her hat as to whether or not she is definitely going to do that. And if she does do it, just win.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, how about those foreign aid bills, the road ahead? We know that there are votes scheduled for this weekend. Do we expect them to pass? 
 
FOX: Well, the House Rules Committee is going to meet this morning to deliberate around those three separate bills, one of the packages deals with Israel, one of them deals with Ukraine, the other deals with the Indo-Pacific. It's expected that the three Republicans who serve on the Rules Committee, hardliners like Chip Roy, they are going to likely vote against it. In fact, they voted against a border proposal, that's a Republican plan last night, just because they're so frustrated with what they say has been a bad process from Speaker Mike Johnson. 
 
At that point, it will be up to Democrats to decide on that Committee if they want to continue with this process. Democrats are meeting behind closed doors this morning in a special caucus meeting to decide on their path ahead. If those packages make it out of the House Rules Committee, then there will be a vote on the rule that governs the debate around these three bills. After that, then they are on the course to actually pass them on Saturday night. That's the current plan. Again, it is Thursday. A lot can change in the next three days. We've seen that over the course of the last several months up here on Capitol Hill, especially in the House. 
 
But, we should just point out that at this point Mike Johnson seems determined to move forward with this aid for Ukraine. 
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
He said repeatedly yesterday that if he let the motion to vacate govern every move he made, he would not be able to do his job. There was a moment yesterday where we were all wondering because we hadn't seen legislative text of Johnson was actually going to move forward. But, clearly, full steam ahead from the Speaker so far.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. Yeah. The one thing expected, change. All right. Lauren Fox on Capitol Hill, thanks so much. 
 
All right. Still to come, the UAE and neighboring countries are trying to dry out from deadly downpours that have drenched the region. We'll see how the cleanup is going, straight ahead. Plus, after a third night of massive demonstrations in Tbilisi, Georgia, we'll talk about the country's foreign agents and -- the "foreign agents" bill, rather, and why it's sparking so much unrest. That's straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: The United Arab Emirates and neighboring countries are trying to recover from deadly downpours that have drenched the region. This was the UAE's heaviest rainfall in 75 years, or since records have been kept. At least one person was killed thereafter. His vehicle was lept swept away. And earlier today, this was the scene at the Dubai International Airport, and it's now the world's second busiest, and you see right there, it's still filled with stranded passengers. The huge backlog is due to delayed flights in the aftermath of the record storms. The massive flooding brought much of the United Arab Emirates to a standstill. Today, some streets in Dubai still covered with large pools. I mean, it looks like rivers of water. 
 
Let's go now to our Eleni Giokos with the latest. Now, the cleanup operations are underway. Wow. That is a lot of water. But, I see some of it has receded a bit for some traffic to get by. And you're at the Dubai International Airport. But, what does it say about the runways and airplanes being able to take off?
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. I mean, there are so many things that are happening today. Firstly, the good news is the Sun is up, which of course helps with receding some of the water. This is a key artery that actually feeds into Dubai International. And as you can see, I mean, it's quite congested, lots of traffic, and cleanup is currently underway. This is really a large pool of water. Last night, we were in this area. We were barely able to get through with our team. I want to show you this truck at the back, also you hear suction noise. You've got these big tankers that are sucking up the waterline. 
 
In terms of Dubai International Airport. I spoke with the CEO of DXB a short while ago, Paul Griffiths, and he says hopefully in the next 24 hours things should turn back to normal at the airport. You got to remember that over 1,000 flights were canceled in the span of three days. We're talking about hundreds and thousands of passengers that were left stranded, not only at the airport, but people that we're trying to get out from Dubai. 
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
He described a really difficult logistical effort by teams on the ground, and then of course ensuring that the passengers that were stranded at the airport, they were getting enough food and water, given the fact that so many of the trucks carrying a lot of the resources would able to get to the airport. 
 
Things are easing up a little. But, let me tell you, we're seeing the metro systems flooded with water. Some of those systems have opened up again because of the rescue and the efforts. And you can just see, I'm not sure we can see down there, you've got people walking across the floodwaters, trying to get to safe harbor. But, it seems like the city is trying to get back on its feet. But, honestly, the amount of destruction of infrastructure, the houses that were flooded, the people that have been impacted, incredible to see in this unprecedented rain that we've seen in Dubai.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. I mean, it is extraordinary. But then, I wonder too, is it really a matter of people just -- you have to wait and see. You just wait for the waters to recede, to be absorbed. Or are there actual efforts in certain parts of the city, if not there at the airport, to try to move this water elsewhere, if it's even possible?
 
GIOKOS: Yeah. It's such a good question. I mean, one way that they're actually getting this water out is through pumps, and they add them into these huge tankers, and then essentially, they move them to water areas, into the sea, or into other areas, and as quickly as possible. The airport has been one of those important nodes to dump some of the water. 
 
The infrastructure here is just not calibrated to deal with this kind of rainfall, and that is why you see the water just sort of stagnant. It's got nowhere to go. And that's the reality. You don't have stormwater drainage systems that should, I guess, be part of the infrastructure system. And Dubai really needs to think about in a very different way going forward, to try and retrofit some of the buildings, and of course, waterways as well.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. I mean, now, they may have to think about it, but certainly they never saw this one coming or --
 
GIOKOS: Yeah.
 
WHITFIELD: -- having a need to think about it, just given the climate and the geography. All right. Eleni Giokos, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Still to come, a trial attorney weighs in on what the prosecution and defense are doing right and wrong in the jury selection process at Trump's hush money trial. And survivors of sexual assault by USA Gymnastics team Doctor Larry Nassar could soon receive a settlement from the U.S. government. We'll have details straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: From the penthouse to the courthouse, at any moment now, we expect Donald Trump to leave Trump Tower and head downtown in Manhattan, Lower Manhattan, for his hush money trial. It is day three of jury selection. Seven jurors are already in place, and the judge thinks he may have enough jurors to allow opening statements to begin on Monday. Trump has complained about how fast the jury is being seated, and also says his defense team should be allowed to strike any juror that it wants to, even though that is not how jury selection is working, or works in this court. 
 
For some expert analysis of all of this, let's bring in Legal Analyst and Trial Attorney, Misty Marris. All right. There you go, Misty. Good to see you. So -- all right. So, he doesn't like that it's happening so fast. But, there are limitations to being able to strike jurors or prospective jurors. Also, many thought that this would be a very lengthy process, even weeks, but now, possibly within a week you may have all 12 jurors and six alternates seated. What do you think is at the root of why this has gone on so quickly, so swimmingly?
 
MISTY MARRIS, TRIAL ATTORNEY: Yeah. Good morning, Fred. So, this is really -- it is so much faster than we all thought, because, of course, this is a historic trial. It's one of the most highly publicized trial when you've got Donald Trump. There is not a soul on the planet in the world who doesn't know who he is, and have heard about some of his other legal troubles and other issues in this case. 
 
However, the reason that this is going so much faster is that the judge is doing something unique. When the jury pool comes in, he is asking that pool, who in here cannot go through this trial without bias? Who is biased in this room? Who needs to be dismissed for bias? And when those jurors raise their hand, instead of what would normally happen where each individual is called to the bench to explain the root of their bias and for the judge to determine whether or not that's enough for them to lead, he is dismissing those jurors. So, the only jurors that are going through the volunteer process are those that have already said that regardless of their feelings about Donald Trump, they can be impartial and unbiased and listen to the evidence. So, that's really helped to narrow those that are going through the remaining very rigorous volunteer process.
 
WHITFIELD: So, you use the word "unique", that the judge is taking a very unique approach. Does that mean it's also risky because he is allowing people -- the attorneys to take the prospective jurors at their word?
 
MARRIS: Yeah. You're absolutely right, Fred, except it's not really as much of a risk, because instead of forcing the jurors who say they are -- that they don't have bias to explain it, and then him saying, well, I don't think that's enough, because a lot of people -- really the underlying thing is, a lot of people try and get out of jury duty, right, in general. And so, that's why the judge asked for these justifications. But, in this particular case, if somebody is going to outright say they are biased, it actually ignores to the benefit of the defense to just get them out of there. This is not the trial to have a question mark about whether or not a juror can come into the courtroom and base their determination on the evidence. 
 
So, yes, it's moving faster. But, quite frankly, this process, although unique in New York, is really more beneficial to the defense in the Trump team.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, interesting. Yeah. Even though you know, attorneys are supposed to take the word of these prospective jurors, the defense attorneys are apparently scouring social media and the background of jurors. They're trying to see if there is some bias. And I wonder, if that will continue as trial gets underway, as jurors are seated, and if the defense might be looking for grounds of mistrial by really looking at the behavior, past behavior, social media involvement of any of these prospective, or at this point, seated jurors, or even if there is a continuation of expressing opinions. MARRIS: Absolutely. You nailed it. So, there is a couple of different issues here. 
 
WHITFIELD: OK.
 
MARRIS: After all of those jurors, who have said they are biased, leave the room, the rest of the jurors are subjected to all of the volunteer process, which is a really, really in-depth process, because this is such a high-profile trial, very, very significant juror questionnaires. But, jury selection one on one, and any trial lawyer will tell you this, social media is key. All lawyers will do that deep dive on social media. In fact, at this point in time, it's almost malpractice not to because you can get so much information about juror's real potential biases in their social media accounts. 
 <br>[08:35:00]
 
And to your point, it doesn't stop at jury selection. Right now, there is a goal to identify bias also. Both sides want to identify what we call the stealth juror, which is a juror that might not be truthful, and social media can reveal this, but is trying to get on the jury. That's bad for everybody. And then, to your point, Fred, it continues on because anything that happens during the trial and is posted on social media could potentially be the basis for a mistrial. So, yes, it is an ongoing process. 
 
WHITFIELD: Well, that's interesting, one of those points you make, because Trump is trying to make that same point, as he posted on social media, that some people are just saying anything because they want to be seated, but no evidence supporting that. 
 
All right. So, the judge thus far, do you feel like he has been able to maintain control of this courtroom by way of how jury selection is going, or even when or if he will make judgment on any potential violations that Trump may have had as it pertains to the gag order?
 
MARRIS: Yeah. So, he has been very, very by the book here, and he has actually done everything he can to maintain decorum in the courtroom. He has altered some of what the normal procedures would be, as we spoke about, in order to do the best he can to make sure jury selection goes smoothly, and he is adamant. He will not have any conduct or behavior that would potentially intimidate a juror which is really, really central to this case. 
 
And to your point, Fred, with respect to the gag order, with respect to decorum in the courtroom, he has admonished Trump and he has warned. He means business. This courtroom will run smoothly, and if violations of the gag order do occur, there will be penalties, and we'll hear about that whether or not it's already been violated in a hearing that's scheduled for next week. 
 
WHITFIELD: OK. And Misty, hang with me for a moment, because right now we are looking at what we believe to be the motorcade. Yes. It's underway now. Donald Trump's motorcade underway, heading south there in Manhattan, leaving Trump Tower, and making its way to Lower Manhattan for the criminal courtroom. And as we look at these pictures, I mean, this has become, except for yesterday, kind of the daily routine New Yorkers have become accustomed to, their most -- what was at a time their most favorite -- famous resident there in New York with his motorcade, this time making his way to criminal court yet again. 
 
And I wonder, as we look at these pictures here, I do have a question still about, among those seven jurors that have been seated, they don't have to go back to court -- the courtroom until Monday, right, presumably, if the entire jury panel is seated. And I'm wondering, what might be the instructions to them about their behavior, or any kind of social media activity, what they express, whether they share or publicize it? They have been seated on the jury. What kind of instructions might have been given to them to protect the sanctity of this case? 
 
MARRIS: Absolutely. The judge is going to instruct them not to discuss any aspect of the case, not to discuss any aspect of jury selection, not to talk about anything related to the defendant, to the legal teams. They're not to speak about that. They're in fact not even supposed to speak about all of this to their spouse. Saying that they are in fact on a jury, well, at this point, keeping the jurors anonymous is a central component of this. So, that would be instructed to be kept into a tight circle. You got to tell your job. You got to tell your spouse. Right. 
 
WHITFIELD: Right.
 
MARRIS: But, any sort of public-facing statements would be prohibited and could potentially get a juror knocked off, especially in a case like this. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. Hence why there will be alternates. Right? That's the importance of having alternates, if something happens. If for any reason the ability for one of the jurors or more unable to continue to serve, alternates step in. So, again, seven have been seated. Today is day three, the Donald Trump hush money trial. Motorcade on its way to that building in Lower Manhattan, the criminal courthouse where the continuation of the selection of jurors will commence today. 
 
Misty Marris, thank you so much. Great to see you.
 
MARRIS: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. A chapter in the USA Gymnastics scandal may soon be over. A source tells CNN the Justice Department is nearing a settlement with the sexual assault survivors of USA Gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar. More than 150 girls and women accused him of sexually abusing them. More than a dozen of them sued the U.S. government over the FBI's mishandling of the investigation. The dollar amount will not be revealed until a deal is struck in court. 
 
Polo Sandoval is joining us now with the details on all of this.
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
So, what more do we know about this settlement, what it will entail, and how it came to this point? 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Fred. All really important questions here. This initial settlement was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. It's certainly, as you can imagine, will be a long time coming. More than a dozen survivors of Larry Nassar's sex abuse, they've sued the government since 2022 using the Federal Tort Claims Act, which basically allows individuals to take the government to court alleging negligence. The plaintiffs here alleging that FBI agents investigating the former USA Gymnastics team doctor, quote "turned a blind eye to abuse allegations." The DoJ agreed to begin negotiations. Now, here we are nearly two years later. 
 
And as you point out, a person familiar with those negotiations telling CNN the DoJ is now finalizing a settlement with survivors, that the details will not be confirmed until the deal is struck in court. This could absolutely mean tens of millions of dollars for the victims. Survivors previously filed $130 million worth of claims against the FBI, alleging that the bureau's Indianapolis and LA field offices initially failed to act on sexual abuse allegations against Nassar, basically failed to act in an adequate and urgent way. 
 
The lawsuit really built off of a scathing inspector general's report that found FBI agents made false statements, but they also failed to properly document complaints from survivors, Fred. We should mention, CNN has reached out to the law firm representing many of these survivors. As for the Justice Department, they're declining to comment. But, Fred, all you have to really do is look back to the comments that were shared in 2021 by the Director of the FBI when Christopher Wray called the actions, or in this case, inactions, inexcusable. So, we have really seen for the FBI really confront the fact that agents failed to protect many, many young women and girls from Nassar's actions.
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. All right. Polo Sandoval, keep us posted. Thanks so much. 
 
SANDOVAL: Thanks, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. The president of Georgia tells CNN that recent protests clearly demonstrate the public's opposition to a controversial new bill. The country's parliament voted in the first of three readings to approve the law, which sparked massive anti- government protests. The legislation would require organizations that accept funds from abroad to register as "foreign agents". Western countries are criticizing the bill as an attempt to curtail basic freedoms. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen joining me now live from Berlin with more on this, Fred. So, the bill has been approved on its first reading, but the protests continue. What's going on?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. They certainly do. And we just saw some of the pictures of the protests that are happening in Tbilisi, mostly outside of the seat of the government there. And you can see some of those protesters waving EU flags because that's one of the things that they fear most is that this new foreign agents law, as its termed, or Russian law, as the protesters call it, is really something that could make it more difficult for the -- for Georgia to get into the European Union. They were, of course, granted its candidate status last year. But, there are some concerns about EU, or from the EU, that some of the actions that are being taken by the government right now will make that ascension process more difficult. 
 
Now, as far as this bill is concerned and what could happen next. The next day, of course, that could happen or that will happen is the second reading of that bill. However, the President of the country, whom you said spoke to CNN earlier today and last night, said she is going to veto that bill when it reaches her desk. However, she also says that, realistically, that is just a symbolic gesture, because the ruling party that put forward this bill in the first place has enough votes to override that veto. She still thinks it's a horrible idea, and also one that she believes is instigated by Russia. Let's have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SALOME ZOURABICHVILI, GEORGIAN PRESIDENT: It's a terrible idea because as the Georgian society has clearly demonstrated by walking on the streets, it is a Russian law. It is an exact duplicate of the Putin law that was adopted a few years ago and then complemented in order to crush the civil society, the non-governmental organizations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PLEITGEN: So, there you have the President of Russia (SIC) saying that she believes that this is essentially a Russian law, as she put it, very similar to the foreign agents law that, of course, has been around in Russia for a couple of years, and which has been used in Russia to really make it very difficult for the opposition there to operate. Essentially, what this law would do is that organizations that get funding from abroad, 20 percent of their funding would have to register as foreign agents in Georgia. The government is saying that this is for transparency reasons. However, of course, the opposition is saying something very different. And again, we've seen those pictures of those protests that have been going on for several days straight. 
 
We also have to mention, Fredricka, that the government wanted to put this law forward last year as well and had stopped that process because the protests against it were so strong. 
 <br>[08:45:00]
 
So, right now, that is happening again. This time, however, the government is saying and especially the Prime Minister came out and just said this yesterday that this time the government will not back down, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Fred Pleitgen in Berlin, thanks so much. 
 
And we'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Prince William is resuming his royal duties this morning for the first time since his wife, Catherine, revealed her cancer diagnosis last month. Today, he visited a food distribution charity where he helped make bolognese sauce with the head chef. Later, he is due to visit a youth center in West London which benefits from the charity. This is the first public engagement undertaken by the Prince since the Princess of Wales announced that she was undergoing preventative chemotherapy. 
 
CNN's Max Foster joining me now from London. This is good news. But, at the same time, I know this is very tender moments. What's -- what else is happening in his world?
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR &amp; ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think it shows that he is well enough to go back to work. She is well enough, rather, to go back to -- for him to go back to work. So, I think it is positive news. You got to remember as well that their kids have been on holiday for three and a half weeks or so, and they went back yesterday. So, I think this was a diary event time for the school term. But, it wouldn't have gone ahead if Kate wasn't well enough for him to head out. So, we saw him arrive there. 
 
This is a really interesting project where they take surplus food into this distribution center and then prepare it and cook it. And we actually saw William chopping some celery. Who knew he could do that? They prepare it there and then they send it off to charity. So, he is going to go and see when these charities in London later on, a youth center that takes this food in. And I think the message here is things are OK, and that his work continues despite everything that's going on at home. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. Oh my Gosh. OK. Well, I mean, this is a royal family under intense pressure with both the King and the Prince of Wales battling cancer. What's the latest about the King?
 
FOSTER: Well, the King, we haven't seen much of him since. But, it has been very positive news on his side because you saw him coming out on Easter Day, of course, and he shook hands with the public, which signified that he wasn't too concerned about picking anything up or his doctors weren't, and they allowed him to do that. He has been doing lots of work behind the scenes, but we haven't seen any more public events. But, I think people are really keen to see that. He is certainly out and about a lot more than Kate. We don't know whether that's to do with the treatments or how they're feeling. But, they're taking slightly different strategies here. But, they'd be expected to take different strategies as well because the King is the King. Kate isn't yet the queen. So, there is much more pressure on him to keep fronting up the monarchy. 
 
WHITFIELD: OK. Well, our hearts go out to all of them and we're hoping to best. Max Foster, thanks so much. 
 <br>[08:50:00]
 
All right. Still to come, we don't know if Trump or Biden will be the next American President. But, some foreign leaders are not taking any chances. Details after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: U.S. President Joe Biden is set to get endorsements from members of one of America's most famous and prestigious political families, the Kennedys. Biden will appear at an event in Philadelphia later today with more than a dozen members of the extended Kennedy family. That's according to the Biden campaign. The move to endorse Biden is in part aimed at countering the campaign of another Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who is running as an independent candidate. 
 
I want to take you now -- also, some new live pictures there of Donald Trump's, the former President's motorcade arriving at Lower Manhattan for his hush money trial. This is day three of the trial and jury selection continues. Again, seven jurors have been seated. Five more need to be seated. And we're hearing some real optimism for many surrounding the courtroom, thinking that that really could be achieved by the end of this week, which would mean putting them in the position to have opening statements on Monday. We'll continue to watch the developments there and listen for whether the former President speaks before or at some point today surrounding this trial. 
 
All right. Between campaigning and court appearances, Donald Trump has been meeting with some foreign leaders before he even formally accepts the Republican nomination. 
 
Brian Todd reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Hello everybody.
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Between court dates, he is acting like a man who is back in the White House. Former President Trump had dinner Wednesday night with right-wing Polish President Andrzej Duda at Trump Tower in New York, the latest in a series of private interactions Trump has had with foreign leaders or diplomats. He has basically been holding court at his various properties in New York and Florida, hosting Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban at Mar-a-Lago last month, heaping praise on the hardline leader in videos posted on Orban's Instagram account.
 
TRUMP: -- because he said this is the way it's going to be and that's the end of it. Right? He is the boss. And I know he is a great leader, a fantastic leader.
 
TODD (voice-over): That meeting drawing the scorn of the man who is in the White House. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: You know who he is meeting with today and down at Mar-a-Lago? Orban of Hungary, who stated flatly he doesn't think democracy works. He is looking for dictatorship.
 
TODD (voice-over): Trump had recent phone calls with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and the King of Bahrain. But, it's not just strong men who are queuing up to meet with Donald Trump. British Foreign Minister David Cameron came courting at Mar-a-Lago in recent days. Why this shadow diplomacy? Analysts say the foreign leaders are hedging their bets for the possibility of Trump returning to the Oval Office. 
 
EVELYN FARKAS, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, THE MCCAIN INSTITUTE: Foreign leaders will also want to make sure that they have some kind of knowledge of President Trump and what his intentions are, vis-a-vis, their country and the country's interests, before he gets into office that they signal that they're not going to be adversarial towards President Trump, should he get into office, or at least to collect intelligence. 
 
TODD (voice-over): CNN and other outlets have recently reported that foreign diplomats in Washington are frantically trying to set up meetings with Trump's allies, and that Trump's aides are encouraging other nations to send their emissaries to Mar-a-Lago. 
 <br>[08:55:00]
 
It's not unusual for an opposition presidential candidate to meet with foreign leaders. Barack Obama and Mitt Romney traveled overseas to do it when they were running for President. But, there is a risk for Trump if he uses these meetings to undermine President Biden. 
 
TIMOTHY NAFTALI, CNN PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN: We know that Donald Trump doesn't truly respect red lines. So, of course, there is a risk that he is going to engage in some prospective foreign policymaking in these negotiations.
 
TODD (voice-over): And that would be a violation of the Logan Act, a law making it illegal for an American citizen to engage in foreign policy without the authorization of the current President. 
 
TOOD: And analysts say these meetings carry a significant and rather obvious risk for the foreign leaders and diplomats meeting with Trump, the risk of angering President Biden and souring their relationships with him if he wins office again. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thank you so much for joining me here in the CNN Newsroom. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. CNN's special coverage of Donald Trump's hush money trial begins at the top of the hour. Join my colleagues Omar Jimenez in New York and Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)