Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Tensions Continue To Escalate Between Russia And Ukraine; A Sixth Tourist Dies Suspected Of Methanol Poisoning In Laos; Crime Rings Target Top Athletes In The U.S.; Texas School Officials Vote Yes On Christianity- Centered Curriculum; NFL And NBA Issue Warnings After Series Of Break-ins; Civil Jury In Ireland Awards McGregor Accuser $257,000; Sean Diddy Combs Tries To Get Out On Bail Again; Trump To Republican Lawyers: "Must Kill" Press Freedom Bill. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired November 22, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ERICA HILL, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT: Welcome to the show and thanks for joining everyone, I'm Erica Hill in for Isa Soares. Tonight, a hugely 
 
 consequential week in Ukraine with weapons not seen before in the nearly three years of conflict now being fired. We are live on the ground. 
 
Also ahead, a sixth tourist dies of suspected methanol poisoning in the popular backpacking destination of Laos. Tainted alcohol believed to be the 
 
 culprit. And pro-sports leagues in the U.S. now warning their players after organized crime groups are allegedly targeting their homes. More on who 
 
 those burglars are and what they're after.
 
Russian President Vladimir Putin just a short time ago saying his country will keep testing a new hypersonic missile in combat. It's been a week of 
 
 dangerous intensification for the war in Ukraine underscored by Kyiv closing its parliament today amid the threat of missile strikes. President 
 
 Putin's warning coming after Russia struck the Ukrainian city of Dnipro with an experimental ballistic missile that carried multiple warheads. 
 
Experts believe it is likely the first time such a weapon had been used in combat. Russia says its new missile launch was in response to, quote, 
 
 "reckless decisions and actions of western countries." President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Ukraine is now discussing new air defense systems with its 
 
 allies.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT, UKRAINE (through translator): And in particular, on my instructions, the Minister of Defense of Ukraine is 
 
 already holding meetings with our partners on new air defense systems, the kind of systems that can protect our lives from new risks. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HILL: For more, my colleague Nick Paton Walsh is on the ground in Kyiv. 
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Erica, a lot of assessments still being done as to exactly what was fired at the Dnipro at 
 
 5 O'clock yesterday morning. Vladimir Putin saying this was a hypersonic non-nuclear missile capable of evading all western air defenses. 
 
And clearly, from the video, we are seeing a multiple pay-load delivered by this one singular missile, that sort of is what you'd normally expect. So, 
 
 the nuclear pay-load, no sign at all or suggestion that in this case, western officials have called this an experimental medium range missile, 
 
 and here in Ukraine, they're saying it's called the Qadr missile, and they claim that they think Russia has only two prototypes as far as they knew in 
 
 October. 
 
And thank God, they say that's all they have. But it marks Russia's ability to show it has technological prowess, it hasn't yet reached full in this 
 
 war. But a lot of the ballistic missiles that Ukraine has been suffering from are Russian, and some are from North Korea. Here's what we know about 
 
 that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (voice-over): The scramble for the dead or the living, horrifically commonplace in Ukraine. Yet, this series of homes in Kyiv turned to rubble 
 
 by something other not Russian, but a North Korean-supplied ballistic missile and made able to fly here to cause this barbarism, killing a man 
 
 and his four-year-old son by circuitry from the United States.
 
Ukrainian officials told CNN, ballistic missile attacks by Russia were rising fast, 194 so far this year, and about a third of them, at least 60, 
 
 were using North Korean KN23s. But these crude missiles, part of growing aid as North Korean troops also come to Russia, rely on a sophistication 
 
 smuggled into the hermit kingdom. 
 
One on display by Ukrainian investigators at this Kyiv warehouse of missile fragments. It is a house of horrors, drones that haunt the night skies, 
 
 rockets that tear down lives. They pick through the dust. To learn how the killing machines work, here rebuilding a Shahed Iranian drone circuits. 
 
(on camera): Parts from a Kinzhal missile. A Shahed Iranian drone and a Russian Orlan reconnaissance drone. All things Ukraine has been subjected 
 
 to for many months, but key, these North Korean KN23 missiles rely on, they say, on components from the United States and the Netherlands. 
 
(voice-over): This box containing dozens of small bits of circuitry made by household names in the USA or Europe subject to sanctions globally, but 
 
 smuggled often via China to North Korea. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
(on camera): But when you open all this up and find American components, how do you feel? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
WALSH (voice-over): The journey the chips and circuits take to Russia may lead through North Korea, even China as a middleman, though ultimately, 
 
 they are U.S. design and make. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
WALSH: As the toll from these missiles deepens, Ukrainians officials say the western firms need to be held accountable. From Thursday's Russian-
 
 launch of a new weapon to their growing use of prolonging North Korean missiles, the global reach of this war grows. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH: Now, more information too, not just about North Korean missiles, but North Korean troops. Ukrainian security source telling me that they've seen 
 
 North Korean personnel in Russian uniform in Mariupol. That's a port city not far from the frontlines in the south, and there are indications, too, 
 
 from Ukrainian military officials. 
 
They've also noted that they've seen evidence of North Korean soldiers in the Kharkiv region too. Initially, they were all thought to be helping the 
 
 Russian offensive, to take back Kursk region in Russia from Ukrainian invasion hands, but it appears they're spreading elsewhere. Look, this 
 
 conflict increasingly global in its nature, particularly after a week of stark escalation between Washington and Moscow. Erica?
 
HILL: Nick, appreciate it. Well, the International Criminal Court's chief prosecutor is urging member states to uphold the law and  comply with new 
 
 arrest warrants that have triggered outrage in Israel. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant are accused 
 
 of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza, including using starvation as a weapon and intentionally directing attacks against 
 
 civilians. 
 
They both risked detention if they travel to ICC member states, the Netherlands, Italy and Spain are among those pledging to comply with the 
 
 order, but today, Hungary's right-wing government invited Mr. Netanyahu to visit in defiance of the ICC. And Israel's biggest ally and arms supplier 
 
 is also criticizing the court.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden calling the warrants outrageous while Mr. Netanyahu himself remains defiant as Israelis rally around him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, PRIME MINISTER, ISRAEL: The truth is simple. No war is more just than the war that Israel has been waging in Gaza after Hamas 
 
 attacked us unprovoked, launched the -- launching the worst massacre against the Jewish people since the holocaust. Israel does not -- Israel 
 
 will not recognize the validity of this decision. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HILL: Let's get more now from Nic Robertson who joins us this hour from Jerusalem. Nic, good to see you as we watch how this is all playing out, 
 
 that defiance very clear in Israel. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Oh, it really is. Rallying around the Prime Minister, both politicians and a lot of people in 
 
 the country supporting him, supporting his view that the ICC's decision, although it's taken against him reflects against the country. It means 
 
 there's an undermining of the country's ability to defend itself, and a lot of people here still feel threatened by the fact that over a year ago, when 
 
 Hamas broke out of Gaza, this was something that they hadn't witnessed. And this issue still isn't resolved. 
 
There may be differences in the country about how the Prime Minister is executing operations in Gaza. More than 44,000 Palestinians now dead there. 
 
 But absolutely, on this issue of the ICC, this is -- this is somewhere where he stands to get more support. A mixed picture from overseas as well. 
 
Interesting, Viktor Orban offering a meeting in Hungary with the Prime Minister. Viktor Orban is a -- is a political outlier in Europe. 
 
 Nevertheless, the Austrian chancellor also said that he wouldn't -- he wouldn't turn Prime Minister Netanyahu over to the -- over to the ICC. An 
 
 awkward question in some countries, the Germans are really sort of -- I think their response indicates how sensitive this can be. 
 
They've said that they will continue to supply weapons, and that they'll discuss the issue of turning Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over to the 
 
 ICC only if there is a trip scheduled and the response from the British government as well. Somewhat sort of quieter, saying that they will follow 
 
 through with international law. The French, of course, have said very clearly, they would turn over Prime Minister Netanyahu if he showed up. 
 <br>[14:10:00]
 
And Israel has taken a position on that. France was going to be involved in the outcome of the ongoing ceasefire talks between Israel and Hezbollah. 
 
 The Minister -- officials here today have said, they don't want France as part of that equation now.
 
HILL: Nick, really appreciate the reporting, thank you. A second Australian teen is now the sixth foreign tourist to die in a suspected mass methanol 
 
 poisoning. It's happening in the southeast Asian country of Laos. A growing list of countries is raising the alarm over drinking what is believed to be 
 
 tainted alcohol. 
 
The two Australian teens, a British woman and an American and two Danish nationals have all died recently in the suspected poisonings. Senior 
 
 international correspondent Melissa Bell joining us now from Paris with more. So, in terms of how this is tainted, what more do we know, Melissa? 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, what we've learned is this latest death, the 19-year-old Holly Bowles from Melbourne, 
 
 Australia. She'd been traveling through Laos with her best friend, both young women have now been confirmed dead. They died in separate hospitals 
 
 in Thailand where they'd been taken for treatment. 
 
One of them spending several days on life support, in all, six people now known to have died in what is increasingly being described as a mass 
 
 ethanol poisoning. Now, the methanol is used often in a poorly made alcohols Moonshine if you like. And we spoke to a doctor a short while ago, 
 
 Erica, about exactly how harmful it was. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BRUNO MEGARBANE, LARIBOISERE HOSPITAL: Even a drop of methanol is toxic. It has been estimated that an amount of mini liter of ethanol could result in 
 
 the deaths of an adult of 70 kilograms. So, it is really very toxic and the fatal amount is very low.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BELL: So, occasionally, when you have poorly-made, cheap Moonshine that served alcohol, that's been made locally, not up to regulations, methanol 
 
 has been used, you get these outbreaks. This time, I think what's been so striking is that the place where this happened, Vang Vieng, which is a 
 
 popular backpacking destination, you're talking about very young people who would have been on a backpacking trip through Asia.
 
And although, the cause of death hasn't been confirmed, the suspicion is that it is methanol. And what we're hearing from consulates of several 
 
 western countries whose citizens might have been implicated is that there's been an impact on others still. So, fears that, that toll may rise, but six 
 
 people already known to have died as a result of that poisoning. Erica. 
 
HILL: Since investigation underway, any more comment from either officials there or even from the tourism industry of this hostel, even? 
 
BELL: We're not hearing very much from Laos itself. It's a relatively closed country, famous for backpackers, of course, considered very 
 
 beautiful and wonderful to travel through. But the authorities haven't been terribly responsive in terms of giving answers about exactly what's gone 
 
 on. 
 
We know that several people have been taken in for questioning, not least the owner of the hostel where the two young Australian backpackers that I 
 
 mentioned, the two latest to die, had been staying, and the "Associated Press" reports they'd had free shots there before heading out, drink in two 
 
 other bars in the town. 
 
We know that the owner of the hostel was taken for questioning, but no charges have been brought yet, and we have a lot more questions that will 
 
 no doubt be answered as these investigations continue over the next few days. But for now, all we're hearing are western consulates telling their 
 
 nationals visiting Laos or other parts of the world to be very careful what they drink.
 
Methanol, you can't smell, you can't taste, you will have it as part of a drink, and it's only several hours later that your breathing will become 
 
 difficult and eventually your organs will simply stop functioning. So, extremely dangerous, extremely toxic and impossible to detect. Erica. 
 
HILL: Wow, scary indeed. Melissa, appreciate it, thank you. Still to come tonight, a former U.S. Congressman Matt Gaetz shedding some light on why he 
 
 withdrew as Trump's pick for Attorney General and also what he thinks about his replacement. Plus, a look at the new school curriculum causing 
 
 controversy in Texas and beyond.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:15:00]  
 
HILL: News of a new Trump cabinet picture shared with you. Former U.S. Senator Kelly Loeffler is expected to be offered the role of Agriculture 
 
 Secretary. She served as a senator from Georgia backing a lawsuit in 2020 seeking to overturn Georgia's results for the presidential election.  
 
She's also the co-chair of the President-elect's inaugural committee. Donald Trump is expected to meet with her soon at his Mar-a-Lago estate. 
 
 Former Florida Congressman Matt Gaetz is speaking out for the first time since withdrawing from consideration for U.S. Attorney General. In an 
 
 interview, Gaetz said he won't re-join Congress, but does plan to serve Trump in a different capacity. 
 
Gaetz, of course, withdrew his name on Thursday after Donald Trump told him he didn't have the votes in the Senate for that AG role, in large part over 
 
 his alleged sexual misconduct. He claims this was all part of a smear campaign. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MATT GAETZ, ATTORNEY &amp; FORMER U.S. CONGRESSMAN: I was dealing with a politically-motivated body. They didn't like me because of what I did to 
 
 Kevin McCarthy. All of them were handpicked by Kevin McCarthy, they had an ax to grind. So, that was going to serve as at least enough of a basis to 
 
 delay my confirmation as Attorney General. 
 
And I could have answered all those questions, I could have engaged in a months-long fact battle, but we don't have months to go through that. We 
 
 got to have an AG ready to go day one. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HILL: Trump has now nominated long-time ally and former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi instead for the role of Attorney General. Gaetz calling 
 
 the President-elect's new pick a phenomenal choice. One of the top positions Donald Trump still has yet to fill, of course, is Treasury 
 
 Secretary. But whoever gets it is going to have a difficult needle to thread. 
 
Donald Trump railed against the economy on the campaign trail the last time he was in the Oval Office. He made tax cuts. The centerpiece of his 
 
 administration. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES: Put the tariffs on your products coming in from China. 
 
When I get to office, we are going to not charge taxes on tips -- 
 
On day one, I will launch the largest deportation program of criminals in American history. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HILL: So, it's unclear whether his pledges will truly make Americans better off. We'll just have to see what happens when he decides to do once he's in 
 
 office. When he does, though, come back to the White House, it's important to note, President Joe Biden is leaving office with a very strong economy. 
 
Trump inheriting solid wage gains, declining interest rates and inflation that is getting pretty much under control. Joining me now to discuss, CNN 
 
 global economic analyst, Rana Foroohar. Rana, always good to see you. There are a lot of unknowns because while Donald Trump has promised a lot of 
 
 things, including sweeping tariffs, we don't know if that's going to happen. 
 
That being said, let's start with tariffs. If tariffs were to be put in place, the sense that I am hearing from most folks is, this could be really 
 
 damaging to the U.S. economy. 
 
RANA FOROOHAR, CNN GLOBAL ECONOMIC ANALYST: It could be, although it depends where, what kind of tariffs, how broad. I will say that I am -- 
 
 unlike some, not averse to the idea of using tariffs as a one-off measure to protect against things like Chinese solar panel dumping.
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
I mean, that's something that the Biden administration, you know, would do and would agree with themselves. I think that Trump's idea of putting in 
 
 broad-based tariffs, not only on adversaries, but potentially on allies is just clearly inflationary, makes no economic sense. But here's the 
 
 important thing. It's not going to happen and here's why? Because if you saw that kind of a tariff strategy in place, it would crash the U.S. equity 
 
 markets.   
 
Keeping the stock market high is going to be the name of the game for Donald Trump, that I completely believe this is the most financialized 
 
 President in history. There are sort of two camps in terms of his policy advisors. There's the Wall Street crowd, which really appears to have the 
 
 upper hand right now. 
 
And I would include business folks like Elon Musk in that as well, you know, sort of crypto giants, tech digital -- tech barons, people that are 
 
 about the money culture, and the MAGA crowd, which is really more about protectionism, tariffs, et cetera. And I think you're going to see those 
 
 two factions dueling. But right now, the Wall Street crowd absolutely has the upper hand.  
 
And so, I think you might see tariffs being used or I should say more particularly, the U.S. consumer market and access to it being used as a bit 
 
 of a chit, you know, a negotiating chip to play in bargains with, say, Germany over whether they will join us in a shared strategy towards China 
 
 or you know, how digital policy will roll out in the U.K. or France. I just think it's going to be much more about deal-making, which is what this 
 
 President has always been about. 
 
HILL: Well, and to your point of the Wall Street crowd, Howard Lutnick as the pick for Commerce Secretary. How does that figure in?
 
FOROOHAR: First of all, all Trump picks are loyalists. Number one. That's what we're looking at. So, we're seeing a lot of picks that, you know, have 
 
 not necessarily the greatest track record or experience for the roles that they're being given, but they're loyalists. When it comes to the business 
 
 picks like Commerce, I expect Treasury as well, it's all about making money.
 
It's all about being part of the tax-cutting, deregulation, keep the markets high culture. This is where this President is going right now, 
 
 despite everything he has said about tariffs and industrial policy.
 
HILL: How closely are you watching immigration? Because there's been a lot of talk as well about if the President does follow through with these mass 
 
 deportations, there's a timing issue, right? We'll have to see how it plays out. But if, in fact, that were to happen, there are concerns about what 
 
 that could do to prices, what it could do -- even I believe it was a Pew study that came out earlier this week, something like 13 percent of 
 
 manufacturing jobs are held by undocumented immigrants and the impact that, that could have. 
 
FOROOHAR: Well, I have always said that immigration, both legal and illegal, frankly, has played a big role in keeping the U.S. labor market as 
 
 buoyant and flexible as it has been in the last few years. We would have seen a much bigger uptick in labor inflation, had it not been for 
 
 immigration. 
 
Now, if you saw something like this professed deportation of millions of immigrants, yes, that would 100 percent increase inflation, and that would 
 
 start to hit the markets. It would start to hit corporate profits. That's why I don't think that is going to happen. 
 
I think what you are probably going to see is the sort of more politicized, small bore raids like we saw during Bush 2, you know, where you're seeing -
 
 - you know, meatpacking plants or agricultural areas or factories sort of targeted potentially, even politically-targeted based on, you know, whether 
 
 Trump likes the leader of X company or industry or not.
 
And that's not going to make much of a difference to the economy, but it will make a political statement for the President.
 
HILL: Rana Foroohar, always good to talk to you, thank you.  
 
FOROOHAR: Thank you. 
 
HILL: The judge overseeing Donald Trump's hush money case has postponed sentencing now indefinitely. Judge Juan Merchan granting Trump's request to 
 
 file a motion to dismiss the case and ordered his legal team to submit their filing by December 2nd. Prosecutors then have a week to respond. The 
 
 judge did not set a new sentencing date or make any further statements about the delay. 
 
As you'll recall, Trump was indicted on 34 felony counts of falsifying business records in order to conceal a sex scandal. Prosecutors have called 
 
 it a case of election interference. Still ahead here tonight, as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine intensifies, mothers in Moscow honoring 
 
 Russian soldiers. And the new school curriculum that has just been approved in Texas, Rosa Flores joins us with the story and the controversy. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
HILL: Welcome back. Returning to our top story this hour in what has been a week of dangerous escalation for the fight in Ukraine. Russian President 
 
 Vladimir Putin says the conflict has now taken on a global nature, as Ukraine targeted Russia with missiles made in the U.S., the U.K. and 
 
 France. Putin's comments come after Moscow struck the Ukrainian city of Dnipro on Thursday with a new medium-range ballistic missile that western 
 
 officials say carried multiple warheads. 
 
As that conflict intensifies, so does the manpower needed for combat, and the stakes are high for the families of Russian soldiers. CNN's Fred 
 
 Pleitgen speaks with mothers in Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(ARTILLERY FIRE) 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As the war in Ukraine is close to entering its fourth year, more and more 
 
 Russians are signing up to fight. Vladimir Putin saying more than 700,000 are currently stationed in and around Ukraine. We got rare access to an 
 
 event in Moscow honoring the mothers of Russian soldiers battling in what the Kremlin still calls its special military operation. 
 
Mothers whose sons are fighting have been killed or injured. Oksana Medvedeva's(ph) son Yegor(ph) was severely wounded on the battlefield 
 
 earlier this year. "He had surgery on his leg and the nerves had to be sewn back together", she says. "He also had surgery on his jaw, but it still has 
 
 not recovered properly. 
 
He's still being treated. I am proud of my son that he is such a hero."
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
PLEITGEN: While the Russians have been making significant battlefield gains recently, they appear to come at a heavy price. Moscow doesn't publish 
 
 casualty figures, but western governments believe the attrition rate among Russian forces is significant. To increase manpower, the U.S. and Ukraine 
 
 say more than 11,000 North Korean troops are now also on Moscow's side, mostly in Russia's Kursk region.
 
Yelena Yelena's(ph) son Mikhail(ph) is still fighting in Ukraine, she won't say where, but acknowledges for him, it's tough. "He went through a lot of 
 
 moments he doesn't like to talk about", she says. "But I found out by chance, I think he's a true hero." The U.S. and its allies continue to 
 
 condemn Russia's President, urging him to withdraw from Ukraine immediately. 
 <br>[14:30:09]
 
But this week instead a major escalation. After the Biden Administration allowed Ukraine to use longer-distance U.S. and U.K.-supplied missiles to 
 
 strike deep inside Russia, Putin hit back with a new intermediate-range ballistic missile capable of delivering devastating nuclear warheads and he 
 
 threatened to hit U.S. assets as well. 
 
We consider ourselves entitled to use our weapons against the military objects of those countries that allow their weapons to be used against our 
 
 objects, he said. 
 
Back at the event for the solders mothers, a Russian parliamentarian backing Putin up.
 
We are a strong country and we've been patient for a very long time, she said. But in the case of mass deaths of our people, if the collective West 
 
 does not sober up, we should proceed to more decisive actions. We can no longer lose any of our men. 
 
But for now, the battles continue to escalate and the losses continue to mount. As Vladimir Putin warns, the war is increasingly becoming a struggle 
 
 between Russia and the West. 
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN Moscow. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: Here in the U.S., a Texas school board today just approved a new curriculum that will incorporate the Bible into lessons for elementary 
 
 students. It gives public schools in the state the option to bring stories from the Bible into teaching. So, for example, a third grade unit on 
 
 Ancient Rome would now feature a section dedicated to the life of Jesus. Critics of the change say it focuses too heavily on Christianity rather 
 
 than encompassing old faiths. 
 
My colleague Rosa Flores joins us now with more. This has been -- this has been contentious to put it mildly. And it really is gaining attention 
 
 nationally, Rosa. 
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Very contentious. And as a matter of fact, the vote just happened probably within the hour. And to the very last 
 
 moment, Erica, these board members were splitting hairs administratively trying to figure out how best to cast this vote. At the end of the day, it 
 
 was a very tight vote, eight to seven. I want to take you inside that boardroom. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Eight yes, seven no. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 8-7, the motion passes. It will be added to the approved list. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FLORES: So, what does this mean for school districts in the State of Texas? Here are the facts. So, independent school districts in Texas are exactly 
 
 that, independent. They decide, they choose what materials students learn in schools. So, what happened today means that this controversial 
 
 curriculum that critics say leans towards the Bible, that teaches Christianity more than other religions, will be available for schools to 
 
 choose from. There are other materials. 
 
But here's the thing. This comes with a very big incentive. The state of Texas saying that schools that choose this curriculum will get $60.00 per 
 
 student. Twenty of those dollars are for printing purposes to print these materials. So, these $60.00 are per student per year. That's a pretty big 
 
 carrot. There are a lot of school districts here in the state of Texas that are very budget strapped. They need money, so this is going to be a pretty 
 
 big incentive. 
 
Now the creators of this curriculum is the Texas Education Agency. They defend this curriculum. They say that the critics are wrong. They sent us a 
 
 statement saying in part "religious source material comprises just a small part of the product and includes information from multiple faith 
 
 traditions." 
 
Again, Erica, that vote was very tight, eight to seven. And I should mention that these curriculum, these materials will be available for the 
 
 next school year which is the 2025-2026 school year. Erica?
 
HILL: Is there any sense at this point of how many of these independent school districts would be on board to take this curriculum, especially 
 
 because as you noted so many of them may be cash-strapped? 
 
FLORES: You know, that's a great question. We don't know. But I did talk to an expert yesterday who said, you know, even some Progressive School 
 
 District might be swayed to use this curriculum because of that money. When you think about it, $60.00 per student for a school district that is 
 
 struggling. That's a lot of money.
 
Plus, here's the added fact, Erica. So, if they choose this curriculum, they'll get those $60.00 per student. They'll be able to print out those 
 
 materials. If they don't, if they choose some other textbook, they would have to somehow through taxpayer dollars that are given to school 
 
 districts, figure out how to pay for those textbooks. So, that's why even experts say look this could sway even Progressive school districts to 
 
 choose this curriculum that leans towards Christianity just because of the money. 
 <br>[14:35:14]
 
HILL: It will be interesting to see even if they chose it, how much of it though would end up in the classroom and whether they would do their best 
 
 to perhaps bring in other religions as well. Rosa, I really appreciate it. Thank you.
 
Still ahead here tonight, why the NFL and the NBA are now warning their players it's time to beef up security. Josh Campbell joins us with more. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: This week, as part of our Going Green Series, we're highlighting efforts to revive degraded ecosystems around the world. In Washington 
 
 State's Cascade Mountains, a team of scientists have created a living laboratory to test how new restoration methods can help preserve and 
 
 protect forests around the world. Here's Julia Chatterley. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DARCY BATURA, DIRECTOR OF FOREST PARTNERSHIPS, THE NATURE CONSERVANCY: We're standing on the Cle Elum Ridge which is in Central Washington, and 
 
 this is the headwaters of the Yakima Basin. This landscape is critical because it is feeding our rivers and streams and keeping this region 
 
 healthy.
 
My name is Darcy Batura. I'm the director of Forest Partnerships for The Nature Conservancy in Washington. A decade ago, we found that there's 2.7 
 
 million acres of forest across Central Washington in critical need of restoration. 
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In 2014, The Nature Conservancy or TNC acquired 50,000 acres in the Central Cascades to 
 
 establish a "living lab" where they're testing innovative restoration methods to reduce wildfire risk, improve watershed health, and build 
 
 climate resilience. 
 
BATURA: The forest up here had not been maintained for a very long time. And a few years ago, we had a massive Wildfire come through and threaten 
 
 this area. Fire is a natural part of our ecology. But when the forests are overstocked and dense, it's a destructive force.
 
CHATTERLEY (voice-over): Thick forests are like a matchstick for wildfires which is why Darcy says it's so critical to thin overgrown areas. 
 
BATURA: All of this would have been small medium and larger shrubbery which we call ladder fuels. So, when a fire comes in here, it starts low in those 
 
 shrubs and climbs up in the canopy of the trees, then spreads quickly. 
 
CHATTERLEY (voice-over): They're also fighting fire with fire through controlled prescribed burns.
 <br>[14:40:02]
 
MARK CHARLTON, PRESCRIBED FIRE SPECIALIST, THE NATURE CONSERVANCY: With prescribed fire, we are reducing the impacts of catastrophic wildfire. We 
 
 want to reduce we want to reduce the amount of density. It just makes for a better healthier Forest by creating these gaps. 
 
CHATTERLEY (voice-over): Tree canopy gaps also play an important role in regulating water throughout the region not only for agriculture and 
 
 wildlife but also for the communities that live here.
 
EMILY HOWE, AQUATIC ECOLOGIST, THE NATURE CONSERVANCY: 75 percent of the water supplies for the whole of the Yakima Basin come from snowpack. Over 
 
 time, this landscape has lost water. We started setting up snowpack plots in 2018 to really measure the difference in snowpack depth and also its 
 
 duration on the landscape as a result of the thinning prescriptions we've done for wildfires.
 
What we're finding in this area is that if you open up a gap plot, you can increase snowpack anywhere between one and a half to three times more than 
 
 if you're under a really dense forest canopy. 
 
Managing for snow is part of a multi-benefit project really. We need to also manage for timber. We need to manage for fire. We need to manage for 
 
 wildlife and birds. And so piece by piece working as a collaborative, we can start to understand where the intersections are and which priorities 
 
 need to take place in particular locations. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: For more on this series, just log on to cnn.com/goinggreen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Paris Hilton is hosting a party in Vegas tonight. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Where does she live? Do you think we could find a way in? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Come on let's go to Paris'. I want to rob.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: If that looks familiar, maybe it should. It's the trailer from the 2013 movie The Bling Ring, inspired by the real life group of the same name 
 
 who 15 years ago were responsible for numerous robberies targeting celebrity homes, including Paris Hilton's. It may feel a bit too familiar 
 
 tonight for some well-known professional athletes. 
 
The national football and -- the Nation Football League and the National Basketball Association here in the U.S. warning their players after a 
 
 string of break-ins at the homes of several sports stars. An NFL security bulletin issued on Wednesday details how organized groups are using team 
 
 schedules and social media to target players' homes. 
 
The NBA issuing a similar alert recommending players use updated alarm systems and sort their valuables in a locked safe. All of this coming about 
 
 after several recent burglaries of athletes' residences including those of Kansas City Chiefs QB Patrick Mahomes and his teammate Travis Kelce. 
 
CNN's Josh Campbell following all these developments now and joins us with more. This is fairly sophisticated in terms of what this this crime ring, 
 
 how they're allegedly operating, Josh. 
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, my friend, extremely sophisticated. And we're learning now that the FBI is involved because this 
 
 has now gone global, a global investigation. That's because authorities believe that some of these incidents may have been conducted by 
 
 transnational burglary groups coming into the U.S. We've long reported on the so-called burglary tourism. 
 
First, there was a warning from the NFL, then the NBA, then the National Hockey League. And authorities are finding certain attributes in these 
 
 various incidents. I'll take through some of them. For example, they're seeing that a lot of these burglars are conducting extensive surveillance 
 
 around some of the homes that are being targeted, going so far as to pose as delivery drivers and grounds keepers just to try to give a sense of the 
 
 coming and going of the residents. They're also scaling walls, targeting master bedrooms on second floors for example, going after cash, going after 
 
 jewelry. 
 
Now, these burglary groups have been long concerned to law enforcement here in the U.S. from coast-to-coast. A lot of these groups coming into the U.S. 
 
 from South America, officials tell us. Take a listen here to one prosecutor who told me that these aren't keystone crooks. These are sophisticated 
 
 operations. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD SPITZER, DISTRICT ATTORNEY, ORANGE COUNTY: They're very sophisticated. They lie and wait for days at a time in people's backyards. They have Wi-Fi 
 
 jammers to stop the alarm company from being notified because a lot of people have Wi-Fi systems. And then they have police jammers to jam the 
 
 signal of the police departments. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMPBELL: Now, these burglar are also noticing the schedule that these teams operate under. Obviously, these players, professional athletes, 
 
 aren't just wealthy but they're also away from home a lot of the time. So, just to show you the sophistication, if they can see that someone is going 
 
 to be at an away game for example, that could be a time to strike, Erica. 
 
HILL: Yes, absolutely. And so, in terms of protecting themselves, how are the leagues or even the FBI, what are they advising they do especially if 
 
 they're not home?
 
CAMPBELL: Yes. They are providing guidance or warning players that they should install security systems at their homes. They should also create a 
 
 relationship with local law enforcement. Just in case, you know, people see anything suspicious, you want officers to be able to respond and do those 
 
 patrols. 
 
And then in a bit of advice that isn't just for professional athletes but for all of us, they're telling players to watch what you put on social 
 
 media, particularly you know, people are away, they like to post where they are, check in at various locations. These burglars are so sophisticated 
 
 they are actually combing the internet, looking at social media to see when people are away from home. 
 
So, to all of us especially during the holidays, if you want to -- you know, post that beach picture when you're on vacation, maybe do that when 
 
 you get back home, because while doing so that actually sends a signal to a lot of these burglars that this residence is not occupied, which could be 
 
 the time the window that they need to go try to steal your stuff, Erica. 
 <br>[14:45:33]
 
HILL: Yes, such a great point. Josh, I appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
CAMPBELL: You bet. 
 
HILL: Still ahead here, Donald Trump pushing Republican lawmakers to kill a bill that would give the press greater protections. How journalists are now 
 
 bracing for Trump 2.0. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: Mixed martial arts fighter Conor McGregor has lost his sexual assault case. We have video here of McGregor leaving a Dublin courtroom just a 
 
 short time ago. There you see. A civil jury found he sexually assaulted a woman in 2018. The woman claimed McGregor raped and battered her after 
 
 night of heavy partying at a penthouse. The jury awarded her more than $250,000. 
 
Police investigated the woman's complaint but prosecutors declined to bring charges saying that there was insufficient evidence and conviction was 
 
 unlikely. McGregor has maintained his innocence, testifying that the sex was consensual.
 
Music mogul Sean Diddy Combs returning to court today where he is making a fourth attempt to get released on bail. Multiple judges have raised the 
 
 risk he may tamper with witnesses. And this time his attorneys claim that it's prosecutors who altered a video of Combs attacking his then girlfriend 
 
 Cassie Ventura in 2016. Combs has been in a Brooklyn jail now for 10 weeks awaiting his trial on sex trafficking charges which is set for May. He has 
 
 pleaded not guilty. 
 
President-elect Donald Trump pushing Republicans to reject a bipartisan bill that's known as The Press Act. It would give journalists more 
 
 protections under federal law. Well, this week, Donald Trump posting on his social media platform "Republicans must kill this bill," in all caps as you 
 
 see right there. The Reporters Committee for Press -- for Freedom of the Press says, "The Press Act would bar the federal government from using 
 
 subpoenas, search warrants, or other compulsory actions against journalists to force the disclosure of information identifying confidential sources as 
 
 well as other news-gathering records, except in very limited circumstances."
 
CNN Senior Media Analyst Brian Stelter joining me now. So, Brian, as we look at this, this had a lot of support in the House, basically stalled in 
 
 the Senate, now this push from Donald Trump. Does this mean this bill is dead?
 
BRIAN STELTER, CNN CHIEF MEDIA ANALYST: That's the indication that I have from the advocates for the bill. This Press Act was probably going to 
 
 languish in the Senate without getting a vote but that's why it's all the more notable that Trump came out and said in all caps Republicans must kill 
 
 it. You know, this was probably not going anywhere because Senate Democrats who control the Senate for a few more weeks, they're focused on getting 
 
 more of Biden's judicial nominees through. 
 
So, it wasn't as if this was likely to get through and yet Trump still went out of his way to try to get it killed. And that signals to me he doesn't 
 
 want the news media to have enhanced protections. He doesn't want any of the government's powers to be curtailed as he's about to regain power. And 
 
 you know, as we -- as we look and we wonder and as people inside newsrooms across the country wonder what will the climate be for press freedoms, this 
 
 is an early snapshot. This is maybe an early indication about how Trump views the relationship he's going to have with the Press. 
 <br>[14:51:03]
 
HILL: There's also been a lot of back and forth about what a second Trump Administration will mean overall taking even this out of the -- out of the 
 
 equation what it does mean for journalists during that second Trump Administration. I know you've written about this. There were also some 
 
 questions about that visit that Joe and Mika of Morning Joe of MSNBC that they made to meet with Donald Trump last week. There has been some 
 
 speculation that part of that on their part was over concerns that Donald Trump may focus part of this retribution tour on them.
 
STELTER: Yes. Two sources who spoke with Joe and Mika said to me that they were worried about governmental and legal harassment and they basically 
 
 wanted to take a target off their backs by making peace with the President- elect. Brzezinski and Scarborough, they used to be friendly with Trump. Then they became, you know, opponents of Trump. And if there were an 
 
 enemies list, they'd probably be on it. 
 
So, this meeting, you know, I think rattled a lot of people and raised a lot of eyebrows for that reason. It also turned off a lot of MSNBC viewers 
 
 and ticked them off because they're upset about the meeting. But it raises this larger point that that I've been writing about, I wrote about today in 
 
 the Reliable Sources Newsletter, there's a wide range of opinions inside media outlets among editors, journalists, lawyers for journalists about 
 
 what the next four years are going to be like.
 
Some people maybe think it's going to be like a rainstorm, others think it's going to be an actual hurricane. There's a real range of attitude. And 
 
 honestly, I've seen that among other institutional reactions as well. Take Senate Democrats -- again, going back to the Democrats for a moment. You've 
 
 seen some Democrats say we can't overreact to every move Trump makes. Then on the other hand, you have Senator Chris Murphy today telling the Bulwark 
 
 I'm preparing for the worst. I'm worried that nonprofit groups are going to be shut down. I'm worried about arrest warrants for members of Congress. 
 
So, I would say there's a kind of a similar range of opinions or attitudes among members of the media, among top editors, among top publishers about 
 
 how Trump will behave, whether he will actually seek retribution or whether he will end up just treating the media as irrelevant, because that's 
 
 another option here. He might just bring in right-wing podcasters, bring in pro-Trump outlets into the White House Press Briefing room and try to 
 
 diminish the relevance of the traditional news media. That would be I suppose a different kind of form of retribution. 
 
HILL: Right. But that is a legitimate concern certainly that I've heard in folks that I've been speaking with as well that he may try to, to your 
 
 point, limit who actually gets in there, into the briefing room. 
 
STELTER: Right. 
 
HILL: In terms of preparing for this, there are also concerns about the significant legal cost that could come with this. Donald Trump's loves to 
 
 throw a lawsuit at things. 
 
STELTER: Yes, that's actually one of the most concrete practical steps that some media outlets are taking right now, bulking up on libel insurance, 
 
 bulking up on lawyers, being prepared to swat away frivolous lawsuits or legal threats that just suck up time and money and resources. That is one 
 
 of the most practical things that I've been hearing about in terms of newsrooms preparing for an incoming Trump Administration. 
 
And it wouldn't just be Donald Trump or his own lawyers filing suits. It would be allied groups, groups that are aligned with him, groups that 
 
 support him that want to tie newsrooms up in that way. So, that's a great example of the kind of practical steps that we're already seeing some 
 
 outlets take. 
 
HILL: Yes, absolutely. Brian Stelter, Brian, I misstated your title. You are our Chief Media Analyst. My apologies on that. Thank you. 
 
STELTER: Thanks. 
 
HILL: Well, the movie version of the popular Broadway hit Wicked comes out this weekend. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ARIANA GRANDE, PLAYING GLINDA ON THE MOVIE WICKED: Listen to me. You can do anything. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: So, the big question for all the fans out there who likely know every words of those songs by heart, do you sing along or stay quiet? AMC, a 
 
 theater chain, is opting for the latter, playing its well-known ad before all screens to remind viewers that silence is golden. Universal Pictures 
 
 though has announced there will be some special sing-along showings, you're just going to have to wait though until Christmas Day. 
 
Finally, you'll likely remember The Prince from your school days, the political treatise from the Renaissance Era on how to acquire and maintain 
 
 power often by ruthless means. Well, for the right price, you can now own your own copy of that book by Italian Diplomat Niccolo Machiavelli. An 
 
 extremely rare first edition of The Prince is going up for auction at Sotheby's in London. It is from the year 1532 and it's expected to fetch up 
 
 to $375,000. A lot less expensive than that banana taped to a wall earlier this week. 
 
One more before we go here. Chicago seeing its first snowfall of the season. This is a lovely way to end your week. Take a look at these very 
 
 happy animals playing in the snow at the Brookfield Zoo. The polar bear there -- this is Hudson the Polar Bear enjoying his time in the white stuff 
 
 there playing with his ball. Siberian tiger also seems totally fine as the snow is raining down around him there in his enclosure. 
 
Thanks so much for joining me tonight and all of this week. I'm Erica Hill. Be sure to stay with CNN. "NEWSROOM" with Jim Sciutto is up next. Have a 
 
 great weekend. 
 
END