Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Netanyahu: Date Set for Rafah Ground Operation; Protesters in Israel Demand Early Elections, Hostage Deal; Smith Urges Supreme Court to Reject Immunity Bid; Turkey Restricts Exports to Israel Including Steel, Cement; Hundred Marry in Mass Ceremonies During Eclipse. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired April 09, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this is the scene in courts where the parents of a teenager who killed four students in a school 
 
 shooting are set to be sentenced. That is the first time parents could be sent to prison in United States for a mass shooting their child committed.
 
It's 9 am in Oakland County, Michigan. It's 5 pm here in Abu Dhabi. I'm Becky Anderson for you. This is "Connect the World". Also happening this 
 
 hour, officials in Gaza say hundreds of bodies have been recovered from around the Al Shifa Hospital. As Israel's Prime Minister says a date has 
 
 been set for a ground operation in Rafah.
 
We'll have a live report from Jerusalem for you. Plus, Turkey curbing exports to Israel until a ceasefire is declared in Gaza as a spat between 
 
 those two countries deepens. And the European football's best teams are back in action tonight with the first legs of the Champions League 
 
 quarterfinals.
 
The markets will open in New York in about 30 minutes from now, futures indicating a higher opening. Certainly they are up as investors weighed 
 
 some key inflation data to be released on Wednesday. Well the data for an Israeli ground incursion into Rafah has been set that is the word from 
 
 Israel's Prime Minister who today said no force in the world will stop it from happening.
 
Benjamin Netanyahu's comments come in the face of intense international pressure to avoid an Israeli offensive in Rafah at all costs that city, the 
 
 last refuge for more than 1 million Palestinians who have fled fighting elsewhere in Gaza. Well, the Prime Minister spoke just days after Israel 
 
 withdrew its troops from Khan Yunis in an apparent preparation for a Rafah operation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Today I received a detailed report on the talks in Cairo. We are constantly working to achieve our 
 
 goals. Primarily releasing all our hostages and achieving a complete victory over Hamas. This victory requires entry into Rafah and the 
 
 elimination of the terrorist battalions there. It will happen there is a date.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well the Prime Minister speaking as Palestinians returned to the remnants of their bombed out homes, following the Israeli withdrawal from 
 
 Khan Yunis residency, everything they owned is destroyed. More than 400,000 people had lived in Gaza's second largest city before the war.
 
And the Gaza Civil Defense spokesperson tells CNN nearly 400 bodies have been recovered from around Al Shifa Hospital, which Israel laid siege to 
 
 for two weeks. He says another 77 bodies have been retrieved in Khan Yunis. Well, you heard the Israeli Prime Minister refer to those ceasefire talks 
 
 that have been going on in Cairo.
 
And we will take a deep dive into that part of the story in a few minutes. Firstly, Jeremy Diamond is connecting us from Jerusalem. A complete victory 
 
 over Hamas is what the Prime Minister of Israel says is still the intent and that he says includes an assault on Rafah, Jeremy.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, that's right, Becky, the Israeli Prime Minister vowing that a military offensive in Rafah will come even 
 
 saying that there is a date that has been set for it, although he did not disclose it. But it's important to keep in mind that, that announcement 
 
 from the Prime Minister did not come in the context of kind of broader military plans.
 
But rather in the context of political pressure that he is facing from the right wing of his governing coalition after Itamar Ben-Gvir the National 
 
 Security Minister threatened yesterday to pull his support for the Prime Minister's governing mandate, should that offensive not take place. It's 
 
 one of many political pressures that the Israeli Prime Minister is currently confronting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Israeli tanks and troops just returned from Southern Gaza signs of a major withdrawal and another political headache for Prime 
 
 Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. His right wing governing partners outraged with National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir warning Netanyahu will not 
 
 have a mandate to continue serving as Prime Minister if he ends the war without invading Rafah.
 
It's the latest layer of political pressure confronting Netanyahu, was already facing a growing swell of protests calling for early elections and 
 
 the hostage deal.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
DIAMOND: In the early days of the war you really didn't see these kinds of mass demonstrations against the current government. There was a sense of 
 
 wartime unity that it wasn't appropriate to protest. But now we're seeing more and more Israelis coming out to protest, raising their voices against 
 
 the current government and against Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: None of us wanted to protest. We just want it to survive, basically -- protest when you're afraid for your life. Like think 
 
 we're not afraid for life at this moment, and this is a temporary place the government --
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Former Prime Minister Ehud Olmert says Netanyahu should resign, accusing him of putting the survival of his government above 
 
 the interests of the country.
 
EHUD OLMERT, FORMER ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: You can try the national interest on the basis of personal interests of the Prime Minister. That's 
 
 what he was doing and therefore he is not fit. More than 50 percent of the Israelis think the same. They don't trust him. They think that he is 
 
 running the war on the basis of his personal interests.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Aviv Bushinsky, a Former Netanyahu Adviser says his former boss learn decades ago to always prioritize those who will keep him 
 
 in power.
 
AVIV BUSHINSKY, FORMER ADVISER TO ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU: Never betray your natural allies. They are his allies, his 
 
 bodies, he has to adhere to the will pay a heavy price, political price, but this how his coalition is so crystal strong and solid.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): Despite the rhetoric from Ben-Gvir Netanyahu's right wing partners don't seem inclined to pull the rug out from under him just 
 
 yet. Calls for new elections from his Chief Rival or Cabinet Member Benny Gantz --
 
NETANYAHU: The Israeli society needs to renew its contract with its leadership.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): And increasingly vocal criticism from the White House is drawing little more than signature defiance from the Israeli Prime 
 
 Minister.
 
NETANYAHU: Hamas hopes that the pressure from outside and inside will make Israel surrender to these extreme demands. The pressure of the 
 
 international community should be directed against Hamas.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over): For now, Netanyahu is staving off early elections, which polls show he would likely lose to Benny Gantz, who was still mulling 
 
 a potential exit from the wartime unity government.
 
DIAMOND: What kind of impact do you think it would have for him to leave this unity government?
 
OLMERT: I think it will probably trigger the public reaction, the volcano of the public bitterness and disappointment and rage with Bibi's 
 
 government, and that will force early elections.
 
DIAMOND: Because right now we've seen more and more people taking to the streets. But it's still not enough -- what you're saying.
 
OLMERT: Yeah, it's moving in the right direction, but we need more.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIAMOND (on camera): And Becky, what's really remarkable is just when you look at all of those different layers of pressure that the Israeli Prime 
 
 Minister is facing, whether it is from his right flank, from the growing public protests against him from his own War Cabinet Minister Benny Gantz, 
 
 his top political ally, calling for early elections, or the criticism now coming increasingly vocally from the United States.
 
All of that piling on top of the Israeli Prime Minister and yet that governing coalition that he has doesn't appear to be showing any real signs 
 
 of falling apart anytime soon. Meaning that for now he is saved from those early elections, which the Israeli Prime Minister does not want right now, 
 
 based on the current public polling.
 
ANDERSON: Jeremy Diamond is on the story out of Jerusalem, Jeremy, thank you for that. Now to those ceasefire talks in Egypt. Let's bring everything 
 
 together here. Hamas, saying Israel's latest proposal involving the exchange of hostages for Palestinian prisoners does not meet its demands 
 
 talks over the weekend, including the director of the CIA presented a new U.S. plan to try to bridge the gaps in what are these ongoing negotiations.
 
Now, this latest U.S. proposal reportedly pushes Israel to release a higher number of Palestinian prisoners in exchange for the expected 40 Israeli 
 
 hostages. A second source put a number on that increase 900 prisoners instead of the previously discussed 700. That source also said the U.S. 
 
 would also like Palestinian residents of Northern Gaza to return home without restrictions.
 
Well, Israel has been insisting on inspections of Palestinians moving north, according to a diplomat are familiar with the talks. All of this is 
 
 just looking at the first of what is a three phase deal. Now my next guest, Barak Ravid reports for Axios that a key issue in the U.S. proposal 
 
 addresses Israel's demand that Hamas release 40 hostages who are alive even if some of them do not meet the original criteria for release on 
 
 humanitarian grounds.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
So Barak Ravid is also a CNN political and global affairs analyst. Well plugged into Israeli politics and regional politics joins me now from 
 
 Maryland. It's good to have you one source very close to these talks over the weekend, describing them to me today as at a critical juncture.
 
Barak, our viewers will be forgiven for feeling that we have been here and heard this all before so. Is it clear how close we are to a deal on a 
 
 ceasefire, albeit temporary, and the release of these hostages?
 
BARAK RAVID, CNN POLITICAL &amp; GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: Hi, Becky, I think I really relate to your last sentence that it feels like we've been here many 
 
 times before we had this conversation, and I'm not sure I have. I'm going to change that much because we're getting closer. OK, definitely, I think 
 
 this deal is closer than it's ever been.
 
But it still doesn't mean that there is a deal, because both sides still have gaps between them on key issues. It's not technical things. It's I 
 
 think the main issue here, and I still don't have the answer for it, is if both sides really want to take a pause of six weeks now? In the leaders -- 
 
 that leaders do Bibi Netanyahu wanted? And does -- wanted, and I'm not sure that those two people are still at the point of saying, you know what, OK, 
 
 let's take a pause.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, that's fascinating. And I think you're bang on there, given what I'm hearing behind the scenes as well. We know, because the Israeli 
 
 Prime Minister has said it out loud that there will be an offensive on Rafah where they believe there is still significant holdout of Hamas 
 
 militant, and that there is a date set for that.
 
Barak, how does that inform or affect the decisions that are being made in these talks at this point, do you think?
 
RAVID: Well, Becky, I just want to, you know, add, you know, some sort of caveat here and I'll be as polite as I can. I don't think in the last 15 
 
 years, Benjamin Netanyahu gave us a lot of reason to treat his comments as credible. And therefore, I sometimes feel that we're sort of feeding the 
 
 troll by discussing the every statement that he makes about the Rafah operation, as if this thing is really happening.
 
And I think we should check what Netanyahu does not what he says about this operation. I'll give you an example. Yesterday, the Israeli Ministry of 
 
 Defense, Yoav Gallant spoke to the Secretary of Defense of the United States, Lloyd Austin, he did not tell him that there was a date for an 
 
 operation in Rafah.
 
Neither did any other Israeli official in his talks with the U.S. government. Therefore, I think we should take this thing with 30 pounds of 
 
 salt and check what Netanyahu does. And until now -- didn't get any order to move forward with an operation Rafah or to move forward with an 
 
 evacuation or give you another example.
 
The U.S. and Israel was supposed to have talks on the operation Rafah this week. The Israeli side is the one who asked you know what, it's not urgent. 
 
 Let's do it next week. So when that's the situation, I think, you know, I'm not saying an operation Rafah can happen sometime down the road, but I 
 
 don't think that we're there yet.
 
ANDERSON: Interesting. How much real pressure is Benjamin Netanyahu now under? You are well plugged into Israeli politics. Barak, what's your 
 
 sense?
 
RAVID: Well, is under a lot of pressure from many, many directions. But I think that as we heard, what Jeremy said and his interview with Former 
 
 Prime Minister Olmert, the key issue to look for here is whether does the Israeli street really goes back to the number of people in the protests 
 
 that we saw before October 7th over the judicial --
 
At the time, we saw every week, 300,000, 400,000 people in the streets, this is not situation now there are, you know, 20,000, 30,000 people coming 
 
 to the protest if we see those numbers growing, this is something that can change the picture, because when it comes to the political system, 
 
 Netanyahu has 64 votes in favor of his coalition that's a majority in the Knesset.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
And that this is not going to change and the only thing in my opinion that might change though his calculations is if we'll see a mass protest in the 
 
 street.
 
ANDERSON: Yep, it's good to have you sir, always a pleasure.
 
RAVID: Thank you so much.
 
ANDERSON: -- is after its original submission for statehood, the United Nations is set to decide whether to grant Palestine full state member 
 
 status. Now a specialized U.N. committee will review the request later this month. It was a request first rose back in 2011, then that effort stalled 
 
 in part because the U.S. vowed to veto it if it came to a vote.
 
Well on Monday, Palestinian U.N. Ambassador said this month's decision is an historic moment. Israel's U.N. Ambassador however, has criticized the 
 
 move saying the U.N. would be establishing a quote Palestinian terror state. Well happening now a court in Michigan has just convened for the 
 
 sentencing hearing for the parents of school shooter Ethan Crumbley after they weren't convicted of manslaughter.
 
In separate trials, jurors found Jennifer and James Crumbley were grossly negligent in allowing their 15 year old son to have a gun while ignoring 
 
 his deteriorating mental health. Ethan Crumbley killed four classmates and wounded seven others at Oxford High School in Oakland County, Michigan in 
 
 2021.
 
He's serving life in prison without parole. And these are live pictures for you from the Oakland County Court in Michigan. Time there is 9:16 in the 
 
 morning. Jean Casarez has been following this case from the beginning. It's good to have you. Good morning. What are we expecting today?
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is fascinating to watch this right here because ultimately they are going to find out their sentences 
 
 James and Jennifer Crumbley. This is a precedent setting case the United States because never before have parents been charged and convicted with 
 
 homicide when their son is the one that pulled the trigger in a mass school shooting killing four students.
 
But because they purchased a gun, which he used, and the son was allowed to get gain access to it. But I want you to look at these live pictures 
 
 because they have not been in the same courtroom together for months, if not since 2022. I saw Jennifer just looking at her husband right there.
 
They're still married. They have been separated, they cannot speak there is an order that they cannot communicate at all through letter or any way, 
 
 shape or form. But I think today is also going to be about the victims because we do understand that the eight family members of those kids that 
 
 were gunned down by their son will be able to make victim impact statements.
 
They will step up to the podium. They will talk how their life has changed. They may address James and Jennifer Crumbley together, but the emotion will 
 
 be so high in this courtroom. And that is the judge right there. Cheryl Matthews, she will start it all off and there will be a procedure that they 
 
 follow.
 
There may initially be argument I can see the defense attorney right there for Jennifer Crumbley is appearing to request something today. So it will 
 
 be a day and we will just have to see how it unfolds, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Very briefly, and you rightly pointed out this case sets a precedent for parents culpable, negligence. What sort of consequence can 
 
 you see this having?
 
CASAREZ: Well, this is the gross negligence saying that even though you didn't pull the trigger, you were grossly negligent. You failed in your 
 
 legal duty to protect your child from harming anyone else. Prosecutors around the country have to be watching this case.
 
They have to be watching the sentencing because this could expand for parents, not only of mass school shooters, but parents who have minors when 
 
 the parents just leave the guns around the house loaded or the accessibility of the minor and they go out and just start shooting anyone.
 
This could start a trend where the parent is now responsible for what the minor child does. There have been cases of child neglect in that area, but 
 
 not homicide that's why this is a precedent setting case. They were convicted of four counts of homicide saying you the parents caused the 
 
 death of those four students because of your actions and your gross negligence all the way around with your son.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. We'll check back in with you later.
 
CASAREZ: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Well still to come, U.S. Justice Department's Special Counsel Jack Smith is pushing ahead with his prosecution of Former President Donald 
 
 Trump and he is asking the Supreme Court to deny his claim that is Donald Trump's claim for presidential immunity. More on what is this developing 
 
 story is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. It is 21 minutes past 5 here in the UAE. I'm Becky Anderson. You're watching "Connect the World" from our Middle East 
 
 programming hub here in Abu Dhabi. Now the U.S. Justice Department's Special Counsel Jack Smith is asking the Supreme Court to reject Donald 
 
 Trump's claim of presidential immunity.
 
Now, Smith leading the prosecution of Trump for inciting the January the 6th Capitol riot and for mishandling classified documents. Trump's claim 
 
 that he should be shielded from facing criminal charges for actions he took while serving as president has of course delayed the start of his federal 
 
 election interference trial.
 
Well the Supreme Court will hear arguments later this month on whether Trump's claim is legitimate. CNN's Senior Supreme Court Analyst Joan 
 
 Biskupic joins us now. Joan first, what is the Special Counsel Jack Smith arguing here?
 
JOAN BISKUPIC, CNN SENIOR SUPREME COURT ANALYST: Sure. Good to see you Becky. Jack Smith is saying that based on, you know, the original founding 
 
 of America and Supreme Court precedent over the last couple of centuries, there is absolutely no claim that a former president can make for absolute 
 
 immunity from criminal trial.
 
And he points to several sources but as I say, brings us back to the founding, saying you know the president has a constitutional duty to 
 
 faithfully execute the laws not violate them. And he says at one point when referring to the founding, the framers never endorsed criminal immunity for 
 
 a former president and all presidents from the founding to the modern era have known that after leaving office they faced potential criminal 
 
 liability for official acts.
 
Then Jack Smith pivot to a relatively more modern contemporary case of Richard Nixon in the 70s, who while he was in office, engaged in misconduct 
 
 related to the Watergate burglary, remember in 1972, there was the breaking of the Democratic campaign headquarters at the Watergate building after a 
 
 federal investigation.
 
President Trump was actually an unindicted co-conspirator. And after he was forced from office, new President Gerald Ford pardoned Richard Nixon. And 
 
 what Jack Smith is saying that was an implicit acknowledgment that President Nixon and all presidents could face criminal prosecution after 
 
 leaving office.
 
And what Jack Smith says is that since Watergate, the Department of Justice, special counsels, and even former presidents themselves knew that 
 
 a former president could face criminal liability for -- while in the White House except Donald Trump. Donald Trump has made himself the exception 
 
 here, Becky.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
ANDERSON: Fascinating. Well, let's hear Donald Trump's argument from the man himself.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You have to leave immunity with the president. If a president is afraid to 
 
 act, because they're worried about being indicted, when they leave office, a President of the United States has to have immunity. And the Supreme 
 
 Court is going to be ruling on that. If they don't have immunity, no president is going to act. You're going to have guys that just sit in 
 
 office and are afraid to do anything.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: How strong is that legal argument?
 
BISKUPIC: Well, it's pretty bold, audacious even. It's pretty much an all or nothing argument that all former presidents Donald Trump is saying 
 
 should be shielded from any kind of prosecution. Now, he's not allowing for any exceptions in his filings.
 
But Special Counsel Jack Smith, as part of his submission last night that came in advance of these April 25 arguments that can be held at the Supreme 
 
 Court did say, OK, Supreme Court, if you're going to find some sort of immunity for a president. For example, for some official actions, let the 
 
 trial go forward and let that kind of legal issue be hashed out once the trial starts.
 
Because just as you said, Becky, the trials also already been delayed since early March and who knows how long it will be delayed in the future, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: It's so good to have you. Thank you very much indeed, your analysis and insight so important.
 
BISKUPIC: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Well, a landmark climate judgment could have a ripple effect across the globe. The European Court of Human Rights is found in favor of 
 
 more than 2000 Swiss women, who argued that heat waves fueled by climate change had undermined their health. The court ruled two other climate 
 
 related cases were inadmissible.
 
And the next hour of "Connect the World", so I'll be speaking with Gerry Liston, a Senior Lawyer, a Global Legal Action Network, he represented a 
 
 group of Portuguese children who were unsuccessful with their climate lawsuit at the ECHR. But is this just the beginning of climate legislation.
 
That is certainly one of the things that we will discuss in our interview next hour. Well still to come, the rejection of an air drop request has 
 
 sparked a spat between Turkey and Israel that is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, that is the opening bell on Wall Street just over. Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. You are watching "Connect the World" 
 
 and that is the exchange in New York of course we are keeping an eye on oil as we take a look at these markets opening just higher today.
 
Traders watching amongst other things oil prices and Brent crude. The leading global benchmark it recently jumped above $90 on the barrel fueled 
 
 by escalating tensions between Israel and Iran. We'll also be watching for OPEC's monthly report due out later this week. Well, the race for chips to 
 
 power the new wave of artificial intelligence continues. 
 
Take a look at this number. It is the amount that the Biden Administration has announced in funding for U.S. based semiconductor production facilities 
 
 $6.6 billion. Now TSMC which is the world's largest semiconductor manufacturing company will use the funding to build three new plants in 
 
 Arizona. 
 
This all part of a commitment to reassure manufacturing in the United States also, of course comes over fears of a Chinese invasion of Taiwan 
 
 where TSMC is based that of course, provides concern about supply chains were that to happen. 
 
Well, Turkey curbing exports to Israel until a ceasefire is declared in Gaza after it says Israel denied its request to take part in air dropping 
 
 aid into the enclave. Now the restrictions target products that could be used for military or construction purposes, including steel and cement. In 
 
 a statement, the Turkish Trade Ministry condemned Israel for preventing people in Gaza from accessing and I quote them here the most basic food, 
 
 medical care and supplies.
 
Well, Israel says Ankara has violated trade agreements between the nations and that it will, and I quote here respond accordingly CNN's Scott McLean 
 
 joining me now from Istanbul with the perspective from there. What's the likely impact of this decision on Israel's economy? Is it clear the extent 
 
 to which these goods are traded into or exported into Israel?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, so Becky, certainly it is not nothing. Obviously, we know that the political relationship between Turkey 
 
 and Israel has had its hot and cold moments over the last few decades. But the economic ties have really only been growing warmer since then.
 
There has been a free trade deal between the two countries in place now for more than 20 years. And in 2021 trade between Israel and Turkey was more 
 
 than $8 billion in total volume with Turkey, by the way, exporting more than three times as much to Israel as Israel sent back.
 
As you mentioned, all of this started over Israel's decision according to the Turkish foreign minister, to bar Turkey from airdrops using its own 
 
 cargo planes over Gaza. Why this decision was made? We don't know. Obviously, relations have been strained since the outset of the war.
 
Israel has long taken issue with Turkey's hosting of Hamas officials here on Turkish soil. Whether or not any of that factored into Israel's decision 
 
 we don't know. We have asked that we have not gotten a reply thus far. But either way, the foreign minister said that this was the last straw listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HAKAN FIDAN, TURKISH FOREIGN MINISTER: There can be no excuse to Israel preventing our attempt to send aid from the air to our Gazan brothers who 
 
 are fighting hunger. In response to this situation, we have decided to take a series of new measures against Israel.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN: So those measures now include bans on exports of 54 different categories. We're talking about things like aluminum, steel, paints, 
 
 electrical components and construction machinery the list goes on and on. And the Israeli Foreign Minister, Israel Katz responded by saying that 
 
 President Erdogan is sacrificing Turkey's economy for Hamas murderers in his words.
 
And he also said this and I quote, Israel will not submit to violence and blackmail and will not keep quiet about the unilateral violation of the 
 
 trade agreements and will take parallel measures against Turkey that will harm the Turkish economy. 
 
And Becky, I have to say this is a big turning point for Turkey because as we know President Erdogan has been one of the most outspoken, perhaps the 
 
 most outspoken Middle Eastern leader when it comes to Israel. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
He is called Israel a terrorist state called the -- compared the Prime Minister to Hitler. And the list goes on and on. But rarely, if ever have 
 
 those words been matched by action, something that critics have been calling for and pressure has really been ramping up. 
 
We said we have seen protests across the country, including one just this past weekend in Istanbul, people calling for the Turkish government to cut 
 
 off trade. But perhaps the biggest factor in all of this may have been the local elections just over a week ago when Erdogan's party had big losses 
 
 across the country and in part because some of the smaller parties to his right of the political spectrum had been campaigning on Turkey to take a 
 
 much harder line when it comes to Israel, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Interesting. Good to have you Scott, thank you. You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson. We are back after a quick break 
 
 for you. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: The United Nations predicts that by 2050 more than 10 percent of trash from urban areas will be processed to produce energy. One company 
 
 claims to have opened the world's largest waste to energy facility right here in the UAE, we got an inside look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Is it the end of the road for this household rubbish? After all, it's hard to imagine that anything here could 
 
 be further use. But actually they're just beginning a journey to produce power.
 
TIM CLARKE, CEO, WARSAN WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPANY: Around about 45 percent of device total waste comes to this facility and we turn that into energy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Overseeing this site in the United Arab Emirates Tim Clarke is an expert in turning piles of trash into megawatts 
 
 here enough to power approximately 130,000 homes.
 
CLARKE: This facility is the largest of its type in the world; we're processing about 1.9 million tons a year of waste.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): The process is simple burn the waste produce heat and steam drive a turbine to make electricity. It's a tried 
 
 and tested method that has existed for over a century. Now Tim says having a plant of this scale takes it to a different level.
 
CLARKE: We operate at a 34 percent efficiency of producing electricity, which is much higher than it would normally be expected from energy from 
 
 waste plant and that's partly because of the size we can operate at higher temperatures and higher pressures.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Last year, the world's urban areas produced more than 2 billion tons of waste and that will grow to nearly 
 
 double by the middle of the century. Landfills are piling up and there's an urgent need for a way out.
 
BRYAN STALEY, CEO, ENVIRONMENT RESEARCH &amp; EDUCATION FOUNDATION: If we're globally putting more waste into open dumps we're creating methane that is 
 
 unmanaged as a solution waste energy. I can create less emissions compared to a landfill setting.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): At Warsan besides the energy produced, waste metal is recycled and leftover ash is used for building roads. 
 
 Finally, sulfur and heavy metal contaminants are filtered and taken away.
 
CLARKE: Only the 200 tons of flue gas residue is the net waste at the end of 5,500 tons of waste going in per day.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Using trash to create power can be seen as a more sustainable way to manage waste and combat the climate crisis. 
 
 For experts it's one piece of the puzzle.
 
STALEY: I think waste energy is part of a holistic solution. If we look at things from a circular economy standpoint, turning that plastic bottle back 
 
 into a plastic bottle is by far going to have the least amount of energy consumption. In first of course of just minimizing waste from the get go, 
 
 for example, less packaging or no packaging.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): This is the future of trash in a world where no efforts are left to waste.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: In the United States, many couples choose to declare their undying love under the twilight of the solar eclipse or chose to at least. 
 
 More than 350 couples gathered at the Elope at the Eclipse Event in Arkansas tying the knot right before the moment of totality. Well, the 
 
 other states held mass wedding ceremonies too, with couples making the start of their married lives just a little bit more unforgettable.
 
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz is trying to reach a younger audience online by joining TikTok but he has already promised that he -- well he won't be 
 
 dancing. Don't just follow the Chancellor you can follow me too and hit videos like this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Name an artists with a wider fan base than Beyonce, because she's just made history by going in straight at No.1 
 
 across 7 different billboard charts with this song you might be able to hear. Just one song, it wasn't just the all-genre top 100 it was also the 
 
 country, dance, gospel, R&amp;B, hip hop and Latin charts. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: "World Sports" up next with the latest Champions League news including a robust policing response to new threats that have just come in, 
 
 that's next. And I'll be back top of the hour with more "Connect the World" for you stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END