Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Harris and Trump Makes Final Pitch One Day Before the Election; Surprising Shift of Support in Iowa; Spain's King and Queen Booed and Pelted with Eggs and Mud; Presidential Historian Predicts Harris Winning; Gender Gap in the Election; Harris, Trump Prepare For Busy Final Day Of Campaigning; Lebanese Hospitals Under Threat As IDF Targets Hezbollah. Aired 2-2:45a ET

Aired November 04, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[02:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN HOST:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and to everyone streaming us on CNN Max, I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead, one day to go. U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump are making their final campaign stops in the presidential election. That's while a new poll from Iowa shows a surprising shift of support from Trump to Harris. It's a state Trump has won twice before. 
 
And crowd throw eggs at King Felipe of Spain as he visits the area hit hard by deadly floods. 
 
Good to have you with us. A final push and a final pitch from both campaigns as we enter the final day before the U.S. presidential election. Democratic nominee Kamala Harris and her Republican rival, Donald Trump, have focused on key battleground states ahead of Tuesday's vote. And in the coming hours, they will both hold rallies in Pennsylvania. 
 
On Sunday, Harris and Trump fanned out hitting other key states like Michigan, Georgia, and North Carolina. Both are trying to reach undecided voters amid a tight race whose outcome remains very uncertain. But one poll out of Iowa suggests a shift toward Harris, in a state that had been considered solidly Republican. Among likely voters in the Des Moines Register/Mediacom Poll, Harris is at 47 percent and Trump is at 44 percent. 
 
Now, that is within the poll's margin of sampling error, meaning there is no clear leader. Already more than 75 million people have cast their ballots for president. That's thanks to early voting of course. And ahead of Election Day the vice president is looking to draw a sharp contrast between herself and Trump offering voters optimism and speaking about the power they have in their hands. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  The power to fulfill the promise of America. The promise of freedom and opportunity, not just for some, but for all. A promise the black church has understood and pursued for generations to help America live up to its extraordinary potential. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHURCH:  A pitch to voters far different than Donald Trump, who continues to turn to even an ever darker messaging on the campaign trail. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  With your vote on Tuesday, I will end inflation. I will stop the invasion of criminals coming into our country. And I will bring back the American dream. We're going to bring back the American dream. We're just two days away from what will be the most important political event in the history of our country. I believe that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  CNN reporters are following both campaigns in the lead up to Election Day. We'll get to Donald Trump's Sunday rallies in just a moment. But we begin with our Jeff Zeleny on the trail with Kamala Harris in the crucial state of Michigan. 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Vice President Kamala Harris closing her campaign with a note of optimism saying it's time to turn the page. At a speech on Sunday night on the campus of Michigan State University in East Lansing, the vice president implored her supporters to take the final hours of this campaign to do all they can to make sure she defeats Donald Trump. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  From the very start, our campaign has been about against something, it is about being for something. 
 
(CROWD CHEERING)
 
A fight for our future with freedom, opportunity and dignity for all Americans. And so in these final hours, let us remember that there is power in knowing that we are together. And let us remember that your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENY:  These campaigns are closing in remarkably different ways. As former President Donald Trump is already questioning the results of Tuesday's election, Vice President Harris is urging her supporters to stay hopeful and optimistic, even as she tries to fight to win Michigan and these other blue wall states. 
 <br>[02:04:57]
 
It is no coincidence that she's closing her campaign in Michigan before spending the entire day before the election in Pennsylvania. It is the critical blue wall states of Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin that she believes offer her best path to the White House. There's no doubt this race is still a margin of error race. Every single battleground state is a coin toss. But the Harris campaign and the vice president herself believe momentum is on her side in the closing hours of the race. Jeff Zeleny, CNN, East Lansing, Michigan. 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Allies of former President Trump told me that they were exasperated after they heard his remarks in Pennsylvania earlier today. The former president Spent the day at three different battleground states, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and then Georgia.  But it was the remarks in Pennsylvania that really stole the show. 
 
He spent a majority of the time talking about the 2024 elections sowing seeds of doubt. He ranted bitterly about a number of recent polls that showed him trailing behind Kamala Harris And then he said this about his two assassination attempts and firing guns into the press or through the press. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  I have a piece of glass over here. And I don't have a piece of glass there. And I have a piece of glass here. But all we have really over here is the fake news, right? And to get me, somebody would have to shoot through the fake news. And I don't mind that so much, because I don't mind.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES:  Now the campaign sought to clean up those remarks, issuing a statement from his spokesperson Stephen Cheung that said, "President Trump was stating that the media was in danger, in that they were protecting him and therefore, were in great danger themselves and should have had a glass protective shield. Also, there can be no other interpretation of what he said." So again, our viewers can listen to him say what he said in that clip we just played. 
 
This is the Trump kind of clarifying statement about it. When I talked to a number of his allies, they were frustrated. They at one point, one of them said, how hard is it to get up there on stage and just say Kamala broke it, I'm going to fix it. They are eager for him to stay on message. They do believe that he can still pull off this race, that he can win the race. But in order to do so, he's got to stop talking or at least stay focused on things that these Republicans believe matter, particularly the economy, inflation, immigration and crime. Kristin Holmes, CNN, Macon, Georgia. 
 
CHURCH:  Donald Trump continues to lash out over that Iowa poll, suggesting Kamala Harris has gained momentum there. He claims the poll is heavily skewed and inaccurate, but pollster Anne Selzer says Trump's reaction is nothing new. She says the same methodology was used to conduct polls in both previous elections showing Trump could win Iowa. CNN's John King explains what the takeaways from this poll could mean. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Does that mean Kamala Harris is going to win Iowa? No, it doesn't mean that. And Ann would say that in a heartbeat. There's a margin of error. Sometimes you're pulling in a snapshot of time. So what was going on the news when you're polling, and would be the last one to say it means Harris is going to win, but she'd be the first one to say her data, which is good date says this is something, in a very competitive phrase in battleground Iowa, which was not competitive. That's what eight points back in 2020. 
 
Fifty-seven percent of independent women say they're for Harris to 29 percent for Donald Trump. So that's a big swing among women. Remember, this is the first presidential election post the Dobbs decision. This is the first presidential election after the last Iowa poll, which you mentioned was pretty close. Trump was ahead in the last Iowa poll, but that was narrow too. 
 
Since just before that poll, the Iowa six-week abortion ban kicked in so it is now been the law of the land if you were in the state for months. But is that having an impact in this race or something Trump has said in the last few days. I can tell you the last time -- I've been in Iowa three times this year. First -- mostly around the caucuses. Then I went back and visited our Trump voters right before the Democratic convention to see what they thought of Harris.
 
Our focus then was on Trump voters, but while we were in the state, we ran into a lot of Democrats who said do not forget us. We are energized by the vice president's pick and this is going to be a lot closer than you think. Maybe they were right. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  My next guest has correctly predicted the winner of nine U.S. presidential elections in the last 40 years, using what he calls his 13 keys to the White House. Presidential historian Allan Lichtman is with us now from Bethesda in Maryland. Appreciate you being with us. 
 
ALLAN LICHTMAN, PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN:  Certainly. Happy to do it. 
 
CHURCH:  So Alan, you have accurately predicted nine of the last 10 presidential elections. 
 <br>[02:09:54]
 
And now despite this election being historically tight and too close to call, you are predicting a win for Kamala Harris and you continue to stand firmly by that prediction. Why do you feel so sure that she will win when they're in a dead heat? 
 
LICHTMAN:  By the way, my record's even better. I would say 10 out of 10, because when I picked Gore, as I proved in my report to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, except for the tossing out of ballots cast by black people, Gore should have won Florida going away and the presidency, but we're not here to relitigate 2000. Why am I sure that Harris is going to win? Because it's only close on the polls. And my system ignores the polls, the horse race polls, doesn't listen
 
 to pundits who have no scientific basis for their opinion. The polls are snapshots and the margin of error is much larger than the plus and minus three percent. That's pure statistical error. Add on to that, people don't respond to pollsters. They lie. They change their minds and they have to guess at who the likely voters are. That at least doubles the margin of error. 
 
The keys to the White House are different. They tap into how American presidential elections really work as votes up or down on the strength and performance of the White House party. And whether you want to say nine of 10 or 10 of 10, I've basically been right since I predicted Ronald Reagan's reelection in April 1982, nearly three years ahead of time when 60 percent of Americans said he was too old to run again and his approval ratings were historically low. 
 
That would not be the first time my predictions went against the polls. In 2016, when all the pollsters and pundits assured us, Hillary Clinton was going to win, I stuck with my prediction of Donald Trump, which did not make me very popular in 90 percent plus Democratic Washington, D.C., where I teach at American University. But my predictions are purely nonpartisan. 
 
CHURCH:  Wow.
 
LICHTMAN:  I've predicted the two most conservative presidents of our time, Reagan and Trump. 
 
CHURCH:  So Allan, even though you have predicted a Harris win, you've also said recently that you feel particularly nervous this year. Why is that? 
 
LICHTMAN:  Two reasons. One, all the hate that has been heaped on me. I've been doing this for 42 years. I've never experienced the kind of hate that I've gotten and my family has gotten. We've received the most scurrilous, the most vulgar, the most violent, the most threatening communications. The security of our family has been compromised. We had to put the police on notice, secure our home. It's -- never have I seen anything like this. 
 
The other reason I've got not just butterflies but crows in my stomach is I think democracy is really on the ballot here. Democracy is precious, but like all precious things it can be destroyed. And we've never had a candidate before who's impeded the peaceful transfer of power, instigated a violent coup, orchestrated fake electors, and has now refused again to accept the results of a fair election and has modeled himself on the authoritarian Orban in Hungary who snuffed out the political opposition and snuffed out the free press. I don't care so much whether I'm right or wrong. I care about the future of our country, which is in grave jeopardy. 
 
CHURCH:  So that is a concern for many people, isn't it? So even if Harris does win this election, Trump is expected to declare victory, whether he wins or not. So what happens if he does that Tuesday night before the counting of all the ballots has concluded? LICHTMAN:  It doesn't matter what Trump declares. It matters what the
 
 states certify, and that's what held, although very tenuously. That coup almost succeeded. They almost got the vice president who counts the ballots. And when Trump was told he was in danger, his response was so what. But there's a big difference now. Trump was president after the 2020 election. Biden is now president and he can take steps to make sure we don't have a horrific repeat of what we saw the last time, although they may try. 
 
CHURCH:  And they may try, and some states may not certify. What happens then? 
 
LICHTMAN:  Oh, I think the states will certify. Look at the swing states. A lot of them do have Democratic governors, Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, North Carolina. Georgia has a very responsible secretary of state and Republican governor. Look, it wasn't just Democrats who certified last time. 
 <br>[02:14:55]
 
It was Republicans all over the country who defied Donald Trump and said, look, the votes in our state were safe and secure. Look at Secretary of State Raffensperger in Georgia last time, a staunch conservative. Trump called him and pressured him to find enough votes to change the votes to flip Georgia to Trump and Raffensperger refused. I trust most of the Republicans this time as well. 
 
CHURCH:  Allan Lichtman, thank you so much for joining us. Really appreciate it. 
 
LICHTMAN:  My great pleasure. 
 
CHURCH:  Spain is bracing for more rainfall in areas already ravaged by historic flooding. Parts of the east coast are under orange and yellow warnings for heavy rain and storms. Forecasters say some places could see about 50 millimeters of rain per hour on Monday. 
 
Meanwhile, cleanup efforts were hampered Sunday in Valencia, which saw more rainfall just days after the region experienced the country's worst flash flooding in modern history. Dozens of people are still unaccounted for and authorities say about 3,000 homes are without power. 
 
Well, Spain's King and Queen went to one of the hardest hit areas on Sunday to see the devastation first hand but they were met by an angry crowd outraged over the government's response. Atika Shubert is in Valencia with the latest on that. 
 
ATIKA SHUBERT, JOURNALIST:  Residents in Valencia are furious with the government for the slow response to the flooding disaster. The royal family, the King and Queen of Spain, came to visit Paiporta. This is one of the most affected areas of Valencia. And they came here on Sunday with Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and regional governor Carlos Mazon. But when they stepped out onto the streets, still caked in mud from the flood, they were confronted by an angry mob that hurled insults, eggs, and mud at the King and Queen. It was a very tense situation. 
 
At one point, police looked like they might lose control of the mob. What ended up happening was security whisked away Prime Minister Sanchez, but the King and Queen remained and insisted on moving forward and talking to members of the public. And there are some incredible scenes of residents right up in the face of the King and Queen berating them for failing to respond to the crisis in time. 
 
Now, the social media channel of the royal family published other video showing distraught members of the public being embraced by the king, at one point falling into the king's arms as he listened to what they had to say. But it was such a tense situation that the visit had to be cut short and suspended. So it really just goes to show how angry people are. And to make matters worse, the weather is turning. bad. 
 
Once again, Spain's meteorological agency has upgraded the red alert warning system for Valencia. Unfortunately, for a region that has already been hit by floods, the last thing people want to see here is more rain. Atika Shubert for CNN in Valencia, Spain. 
 
CHURCH:  Tornadoes have injured more than a dozen people in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. The tornadoes cause massive damage to neighborhoods. As you can see in this video, the U.S. National Weather Service confirmed at least five tornadoes tore through the state overnight and two are believed to have been powerful EF3 twisters. Oklahoma and Texas could face more severe weather in the coming hours, including possible tornadoes, flash floods, hail and strong winds. 
 
Well, coming up, as Donald Trump threatens to protect women, whether they like it or not, new polls are giving us insight into how women feel about him as a presidential candidate. We'll take a look.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:00]
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back everyone. Well, Donald Trump and Kamala Harris are running out of time to court voters ahead of Election Day polls on Tuesday. Trump's going all out on Monday with four different rallies in three battleground states. Two of them will be in the critical state of Pennsylvania. That's also where Harris will spend her last day campaigning. Her final pitch will come at a star-studded rally in Philadelphia. 
 
The contest is still incredibly tight with no clear leader. The latest CNN poll of polls shows Harris leading Trump by just one point. Now this election appears to have galvanized American women. With Republican attacks on reproductive health care including abortion care and in vitro fertilization, many female voters see their rights and freedoms at the center of the campaign. The latest poll from Iowa finds that Donald Trump has lost his edge over Kamala Harris in that state. 
 
Earlier it was widely expected that Iowa would go to Trump. Now the poll numbers that you see here may be one reason for that. According to the poll, women in Iowa largely favor Harris over Trump, 56 percent to 36 percent. Sarah Sadhwani is a political science professor at Pomona College and a democracy fellow at Harvard University's Kennedy School and she joins me now from Los Angeles. A pleasure to have you with us. 
 
SARA SADHWANI, POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR, POMONA COLLEGE:  Thank you so much for having me. 
 
CHURCH:  So, as we've been discussing, we've been seeing the emergence of this clear gender gap for some time now, in fact, women preferring prefer Kamala Harris while men generally prefer Donald Trump. But with just hours to go to this most consequential presidential election, a new Des Moines Register poll is showing Harris topping Trump by three points in solid red Iowa, previously not even competitive, and of likely independent Iowa women voters -- 57 percent support Harris compared to 29 percent who support Trump, giving Harris a 28-point lead over Trump. How reliable is this, do you think, and what might be driving this? 
 
SADHWANI:  Well, these are pretty outrageous numbers actually to see this late in the game, but it is telling of a serious gender gap that we have been seeing across the board over the last several weeks and months, to be honest. Recent polling has come out showing that while there is still a sense of a reluctance to vote for women amongst some Americans, certainly the support for Kamala Harris is high amongst women this 2024 election, despite the fact that Kamala Harris rarely talks about her gender identity or the historic nature of her candidacy. This election has become a battle between the sexes. 
 
CHURCH:  And in this sprint to the finish line, we are now seeing an upbeat message from Kamala Harris, who says her campaign has the momentum, but she adds that they need to finish strong. Is she seeing this sudden momentum from that Des Moines Register poll, or is it broader than that? Because some polls are also suggesting Harris is gaining momentum in North Carolina and in Georgia. Is this being spearheaded by independent women voters, do you think? What are you seeing, and how big a role might women's health and access to abortion be playing in all of this? 
 
SADHWANI:  Well, if we start with the abortion issue, this has been a winning issue for Democrats. In 2022, while they thought that they might face serious losses in the House of Representatives, in fact, Democrats fared very well because of their push for their message on abortion. 
 <br>[02:25:01]
 
In addition, in places like Georgia and North Carolina. These are states with large and growing numbers of immigrant communities as well. And as we know, particularly just in the last several weeks, Donald Trump has gone on a rampage, as well as those who are around him, castigating immigrant communities and stereotyping them in ways that certainly doesn't always sit well with many of these communities. 
 
North Carolina in particular has seen an enormous growth in both Latino and Asian-American voters in the last 10 years and that could certainly make a difference. And let's not forget that Barack Obama did win North Carolina back in 2008 and most certainly Kamala Harris sees this as an opportunity for her to pick up this time around. 
 
CHURCH:  And of course the critical battleground state of Pennsylvania is key in this election, isn't it? Whoever wins that state most likely becomes the next president of the United States. So, what are you seeing in Pennsylvania when it comes to male and female voters and the issues that motivate them to get out there and vote? 
 
SADHWANI:  That's right. We continue to see this gender gap. And one interesting piece about it is this gender gap tends to break on educational attainment. So women with college degrees are most certainly at a larger proportion in support of Kamala Harris than both men and women who lack college degrees. Interesting piece in the state of Pennsylvania. We so often think about Pennsylvania for white working class voters and certainly that is an important demographic in the state.
 
But within the state of Pennsylvania there's about 100,000 Indian- American voters. Indian-Americans tend to be very highly educated, many of whom are associated with the Democratic Party. There's also a very large proportion of Puerto Rican-Americans. And certainly we've heard in the headlines recently some of the comments from the comedian that appeared at a Trump rally making concerning comments about the state of Puerto Rico. 
 
And certainly we can anticipate that amongst many Puerto Ricans who may have had some anxieties towards Kamala Harris, that this might be the camel -- the straw that breaks the camel's back and really push their support for Kamala Harris. 
 
CHURCH:  And of course, nearly half of all likely American voters have already cast their ballots in early voting, about 75 million, and more than half of those early voters are women. So what is your reading of what might be driving that, do you think? 
 
SADHWANI:  Women tend to be pretty reliable voters. You know, one of the key contrasts here is that Trump has done incredibly well amongst younger men, those who have felt some of the anxieties around the economy and their own economic anxieties for the future. However, younger voters and younger men in particular aren't always a reliable voting bloc. They don't always see the outcome of an election as being something that's actually going to benefit them in the future or in the long run. 
 
Women, on the other hand, tend to be far more reliable voters. And let's not forget that in the Republican primary, even after Nikki Haley stepped out of the race, people continued to vote for her. And so there's a whole host of people who identify as Republicans, or at least voted in the Republican primary, who said no to Donald Trump at that point in time.
 
And the big question is, can they put their support behind Kamala Harris? And all signals are pointing to, yes, many of them can. Some also might just choose to stay home on Election Day. 
 
CHURCH:  Sarah Sadhwani, thank you so much for joining us. Appreciate it. 
 
SADHWANI:  Thanks for having me. 
 
CHURCH:  And still to come, just one day left on the campaign trail for Vice President Kamala Harris and Donald Trump. We will tell you where they are headed next. 
 
And Harris has pledged to Arab-American voters while kicking off her last rally in Michigan. That's next here on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:31:33]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  It is nearly Election Day in America. And presidential hopefuls Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris are going full steam ahead across the finish line. 
 
In the coming hours, Harris will appear at rallies across Pennsylvania. Donald Trump is also slated to appear in North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Michigan on Monday. 
 
The final push comes amid a new poll from "The Des Moines Register" showing Harris gaining support in Iowa, a state Trump won in the last two elections. Though there is still no clear leader in that state. 
 
Kamala Harris courted Arab American voters Sunday in her final Michigan rally before Election Day. She vowed to do her best to end the war in Gaza, acknowledging the suffering there and the many Palestinian lives lost.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  As president, I will do everything in my power to end the war in Gaza, to bring home the hostages and the suffering in Gaza, ensure Israel is secure and ensure the Palestinian people can realize their right to dignity, freedom security and self-determination.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited his country's border with Lebanon on Sunday. 
 
He met with troops as Israel continues its attacks in Lebanon. Netanyahu says he will not stop until Hezbollah is pushed back to the Litani River with or without a deal. He thanked the troops for their sacrifice and heroism, saying they are, quote, the foundation to ensuring our future and our country.
 
Well, despite claiming to target Hezbollah, Israel's recent attacks in Lebanon have also damaged the country's hospitals, even forcing some to shut down, according to health officials. A CNN investigation discovered the Israeli military has dropped bombs within a lethal range of at least 19 hospitals. 
 
CNN's senior investigations writer Tamara Qiblawi reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TAMARA QIBLAWI, CNN SENIOR INVESTIGATIONS WRITER (voice-over):  A ball of fire lights up the night sky. 
 
Seconds later, loud booms reverberate through Lebanon's capital, one of many explosions rocking Beirut's southern suburbs nearly every night for the past month. 
 
In Lebanon's largest public hospital, glass shatters and there's panic as an Israeli bomb hits the vicinity. 
 
ER nurse Mohammad Fouani was there when that explosion came without warning. 
 
MOHAMMAD FOUANI, NURSE, RAFIK HARINI UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL:  When the explosion happened, the ground shook and I fell over my patient. We have been through a lot, but this event was the worst thing we ever experienced. 
 
In the day, the horrors come to light. Meters away from the hospital, the epicenter of the Israeli strike. A desperate scramble to dig men, women and children out of the rubble. 
 
This is Hezbollah's seat of power. A major flashpoint in Israel's bombing campaign, but this is also home to some 1 million people, most of whom are now displaced. 
 <br>[02:35:02]
 
Israeli strikes across the country have damaged 34 hospitals, according to health authorities. Eight of these have been forced to close. 
 
Now, while the majority of these hospitals weren't directly hit, they were inside a blast radius known as a kill zone.
 
Let's look at this more closely. The bombing campaign focused on three areas, the southern suburbs of Beirut, the Bekaa Valley and the country\s south, which borders Israel.
 
We analyzed over 240 Israeli airstrikes in the first month of Israel's countrywide offensive. Our team measured the potential reach of fragments from each one of these attacks. Experts call this a kill zone. A 340-meter radius around the target, where shrapnel can tear through buildings and people. This calculation is based on the types of bombs we know Israel is using in Lebanon today. 
 
In the southern suburbs of Beirut, our analysis found that every single hospital was within the kill zone of an airstrike and health authorities say every single hospital has been damaged as a result. 
 
In the Bekaa Valley, two hospitals were found within these kill zones. In the south, where whole villages have been flattened by Israel's bombardment, there were six. CNN was able to verify 19 hospitals that fell within these kill zones.
 
 Health authorities say a fifth of Lebanon's hospitals have been damaged. Many fear this is only the beginning, with dozens of Lebanese health and emergency workers killed in just a month, according to the health ministry. 
 
There are echoes of the apocalyptic situation that is still playing out for hospitals in Gaza. 
 
DR. THAER AHMAD, AMERICAN DOCTOR WORKING IN LEBANON:  We can't let that happen. 
 
QIBLAWI:  Dr. Thaer Ahmad is an American doctor who was working in Gaza earlier this year. He's in Lebanon now and he says he's getting flashbacks. 
 
AHMAD:  There are no red lines. There is no respect for international humanitarian law. We saw that in Gaza for the past 13 months, and we're seeing it in Lebanon. Are we heading in that same direction? Are we actually going to see this repeat itself? 
 
QIBLAWI:  Responding to CNN's findings, the Israeli military said it operates in strict accordance with international law. It accused Hezbollah of being deeply embedded in civilian areas deliberately close to medical facilities. 
 
Lebanon is no stranger to war, but its health workers say they've never been more vulnerable. And yet they say they feel they have no choice but to carry on.
 
Tamara Qiblawi, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Still to come, as Election Day nears in America, what police are doing to nation's capital? 
 
Back with that and more in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  Across the U.S., police departments are increasing security for Election Day.
 <br>[02:40:02]
 
In Washington, D.C., police are adding new security measures outside the official residence of Vice President Kamala Harris and outside the White House, workers put up additional fencing to create a wider, enclosed perimeter. 
 
Well, some early voters are making their voices heard and celebrating with a pioneering women's rights icon, Susan B. Anthony. They are placing their "I voted" stickers on her headstone and memorial statue in Rochester, New York. Susan B. Anthony was one of the best known early suffragists campaigning for equal voting rights for women in the 1800s. She died before women were granted that constitutional right, but modern women are recognizing her groundbreaking work.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BECKY D'ANGELO-VEITCH, VOTER:  Now, I'm a mom of two daughters, and I want my daughters to be engaged citizens. I want them to vote and to be able to do that here today. And then just to come and honor the work that Susan B. Anthony did to give me the right to do that was beyond important. 
 
JANE CARDEN, VOTER:  The fact that she took this stand over 100 years ago, that I could do this and that my daughters can do this, it's a privilege. I wouldn't be anywhere else. I wouldn't vote anywhere else this year.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  American women gained the right to vote in 1920. That was 14 years after Anthony's death. 
 
More than 50,000 runners took part in the annual New York City marathon on Sunday, making the 26.2 mile journey from Staten Island through all five boroughs and finishing in Central Park. The Netherland's Abdi Nageeye won a thrilling men's race. He finished in two hours, seven minutes and 39 seconds. 
 
Kenya's Sheila Chepkirui marked her debut with a victory in the women's race. Her winning time was two hours, 24 minutes and 35 seconds. Living up to her status as one of the pre-race favorites.
 
China's Shenzhou-18 spacecraft has successfully returned to Earth. The capsule, containing three astronauts landed as planned in inner Mongolia. The three person crew spent several months in low orbit and conducted China's longest ever spacewalk. The crews' April launch marked more than two decades of Chinese human space flight.
 
I want to thank you so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
"WORLD SPORT" is coming up next. Then I'll be back in about 15 minutes with more CNN NEWROOM. Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)