Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Garlin Gilchrist is Interviewed about the DNC; Obamas Wow DNC Crowd; Harris Campaign Push for Latino Voters. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired August 21, 2024 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:30:00] 
 
SEN. GARY PETERS (D-MI): And, on the other hand, we have Donald Trump and J.D. Vance. And let's be clear, if they win - if they win, working people like my friends here from the teamsters will pay the price.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Democratic Senator Gary Peters of Michigan there on stage last night and cutting straight to an important focus for part of the Democratic Convention, union support, union voters and issues that matter to them. Peters was joined on stage with - by a dozen members of the teamsters last night. Their presence highlighting how important union votes are in battleground Michigan, and also how the teamsters, as an organization, has not yet endorsed either Kamala Harris - any candidate, either Kamala Harris or Donald Trump. And you will remember that teamsters president, Sean O'Brien, gave a fiery speech at last month's Republican Convention.
 
Joining me right now is Michigan's Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist. 
 
It's great to see you, Lieutenant Governor. Thank you for coming in. 
 
How important would a teamsters endorsement be for you all and the Harris campaign to win in Michigan?
 
LT. GOV. GARLIN GILCHRIST (D-MI): What's important is the support of the teamsters members and those workers at - who were flanking Governor Peters. We showed that their enthusiasm, their hard work, the fact that they are working more than they've worked in a generation thanks to the Biden-Harris administration, that Vice President Harris is focused on making sure that we rebuild America in a way that works for everyone in America. 
 
It would be a boon to have the endorsement. But we know that we're going to get in and do the work. The teamsters in Michigan are knocking doors and calling their members. I think they're going to turn out for Vice President Harris and Governor Walz to the high level.
 
BOLDUAN: In - the latest polling we've seen in battleground Michigan is that voters in Michigan, they rank as top issues, economy, abortion, and immigration as their top - as their top concerns. Donald Trump is still leading Harris on the economy and on immigration. That was the case when Biden was top of ticket and now it continues with Harris. 
 
Why haven't Democrats, specifically, you know, when it comes to the presidential, been able to convince voters otherwise?
 
GILCHRIST: First and foremost, Vice President Harris has closed the gap when it's come to the difference on the economy. She's going to continue to tell her story. 
 
She was in Detroit a couple of months ago talking about her opportunity agenda, and now she's making space for everyone to have access to a dream of health and wealth. Whereas Donald Trump was in Michigan just yesterday talking about a dark vision for America's future rather than the bright economic possibility that Vice President Harris is talking about, whether that's creating jobs, bringing back manufacturing, but also opening the doors to the innovation economy. You know, her vision is one that everyone can see themselves.
 
BOLDUAN: Donald Trump - I want to ask you about some more of what Donald Trump said yesterday. He was in Michigan. He's trying to counter program. He attacked Harris in part for being too liberal for the people of Michigan. 
 
Let me play what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: She is, as you know, the most radical left person ever even thought of for high office, certainly for the office of president. People don't know the real Kamala. But I do. And people that do what I do, they also know. But she is so far left that nobody can even imagine. And her real thoughts are there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: If perception that Kamala Harris is far eft or too liberal sticks with voters in Michigan, how big of a problem is that for your chances? 
 
GILCHRIST: Well, the perception and the clear reality is Donald Trump is to stupid to even pronounce her name correctly. And he is to racists for the state of Michigan. The fact that he went to the birthplace of the KKK in our state on purpose one month to the day after there were heil Hitler chants being walked through the streets to echo a rally that he (INAUDIBLE) J.D. Vance in west Michigan speaks to the message that he was really trying to bring and communicate. Whereas Vice President Harris, who's been in Michigan more than any vice president has been in more than 50 years, to show up all over Michigan, to be responsive to the people of Michigan, and she's talking about lowering costs. She's talking about more affordable prescription drugs. She's talking about creating jobs. She's talking about more affordable health care. And I think that's the values that are not liberal, are not conservative, they're American. They're Michigan values. And that's what people want to see. And that's what we're going to deliver when Vice President Harris becomes our next president.
 
BOLDUAN: The Trump campaign has made the point, and Donald Trump himself made the point that also that Joe Biden made a stop in that very same city back in 2021, I think to push back on what you're saying about the KKK. 
 
Regardless -
 
GILCHRIST: Yes. Here's the biggest difference between - here's the biggest difference between what the president did and what - and what Trump did. The president, when he came to Howell, to go to the training center for the industrial - for the operating engineers and see people who are providing a pathway to skills, and (INAUDIBLE) new jobs that are being created by the bipartisan infrastructure law.  He was there two days after that law was signed by him in November of that - of that year. But he also spoke to that history and spoke to the future of that community, of our state and of our country, saying that we can evolve beyond the racism in the past rather than going there on purpose to reflect it and basking in the way that Donald Trump did.
 <br>[08:35:06]
 
BOLDUAN: Timing there, you're saying, in the sequence of events you see matters there. 
 
The uncommitted vote in the Michigan primary, it was a thing. It also sparked kind of a protest vote movement beyond Michigan over anger of then Joe Biden's handling of the Israel-Hamas war. The uncommitted movement, they had asked to speak - for a speaking slot at the Democratic Convention. As far as I have seen, that has not been agreed to or announce that it was - it has been allowed. Do you think they should get a speaking slot? 
 
GILCHRIST: Well, I think the more important conversations are already happening. The fact that leaders from their Arab American Muslim community and the state of Michigan, that has the largest Arab American Muslim community outside of the Middle East have met with Vice President -
 
BOLDUAN: But from those conversations, Lieutenant Governor, do you think - but do you think in those conversations a speaking slot is not as important? Do you think those conversations have led to - are you confident that Kamala Harris and the campaign has done enough to win back the support of the, what was it, more than 100,000 Democratic primary voters that voted uncommitted in the primary?
 
GILCHRIST: The fact that Vice President Harris actually met with those leaders is what's - is what matters. And that's helping build the relationship and build that trust. Donald Trump will never meet with the community in this way. He will be a disaster for the Arab American Muslim community and for the war that's going on. He won't make sure that hostages come home. He won't make sure that people stop dying in Gaza. But Kamala Harris, who has called for a ceasefire, who has continued to - is working toward peace there, she's going to be the one that's going to deliver that. She's the right leader for us going forward on this issue. 
 
BOLDUAN: Lieutenant Governor of Michigan, a one - final question, yes or no, were you happy that Eminem was your guy's walk-on music for the roll call, yes or no? 
 
GILCHRIST: Every day at a week, twice on Sundays.
 
BOLDUAN: Good answer. 
 
It's good to see you, Lieutenant Governor. Thank you so much for coming in.
 
GILCHRIST: Thank you. 
 
BOLDUAN: Still ahead for us, millions of Americans will get their first look at Tim Walz tonight. What can you expect? 
 
We'll be right back 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:42:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHELLE OBAMA, FORMER FIRST LADY: For years Donald Trump did everything in his power to try to make people fear us. See, his - his limited, narrow view of the world made him feel threatened by the existence of two hard working, highly educated, successful people who happen to be black.
 
Who's going to tell him that the job he's currently seeking might just be one of those black jobs.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: That may have been the moment of the convention so far.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: It was. At least of the night.
 
BERMAN: From everyone we've talked - everyone we've talked to so far this morning seems to think so.
 
With us now are CNN political commentators Shermichael Singleton and Kate Bedingfield.
 
Kate, I want to start with you and try to push it forward a little bit because I haven't found anyone, at least here in Chicago who watch this, who wasn't thrilled with what they saw last night. So, it was what it was. Every Democrat is like on crack this morning. How do you turn that into success for the next 70 plus days? 
 
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, I think actually what the Obamas did last night was lay out a really effective, really convincing messaging path for the Democrats. And I actually think you've seen Kamala Harris and Tim Walz kind of take - as you - as you saw her come to the top of the ticket, I think you've seen them embrace this idea, which - which is that one of the ways to beat Donald Trump is to take away this notion that he is all strength and that he's strong and that he's frightening. 
 
And I think what the Obamas did so effectively last night is kind of say, that's - that's an allusion. It doesn't mean that he hasn't done terrible things to the discourse in this country. Obviously, you heard them really effectively talk about the hateful things he has said over his time in public life. I don't think they were diminishing the ways in which he has been detrimental to our public discourse and our politics. But they were also saying, you know, he's - he's a little man. He's a sad man. And taking away some of that kind of power that Trump really feeds on, this kind of notion that he's this great, you know, strength, this great strong man I think is an effective way to - to go at him. And I think you'll see Harris and Trump - sorry, Harris and Walz continue to do that on the campaign trail. 
 
SIDNER: I'm feeling petty this morning. So, I'm going to bring it back to the black jobs line. As a Republican political strategist, how much do you hate how good that line was? 
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I mean, look, Sara, the Obamas - and I said this earlier - they are incredibly gifted orators. There is just no doubt about that. I have a lot of adoration for them, a lot of respect for them. And you saw last night the reason why they continue to be stalwarts of the Democratic Party. 
 
However, if I can go to a little politics -
 
SIDNER: I knew you were going to turn somewhere.
 
SINGLETON: With all due respect to the Obamas, who I do deeply love and respect, we didn't hear a lot about the economy. And one thing that I was really looking forward to seeing from President Obama was whether or not he would speak directly to younger black men. 
 <br>[08:45:09]
 
Because we know that that's an issue for the vice president. 
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
SINGLETON: So I thought, you know, if they're going to have Obama, there is no way he is not going to touch on this issue, because it is an issue that even the Harris campaign has acknowledged they have work to do. And I didn't necessarily hear that. 
 
And so, I'm still trying to figure out, will that come later this week, or maybe they have some different tactics in place long term where they'll attempt to utilize the former president to speak to that cohort of voters. But it is something that I think is still an issue for the vice president and is something that I would not necessarily overlook. 
 
BERMAN: What do you think about that? SIDNER: Yes.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Yes. I mean, look, I think that what the Obamas did last night was effective. And we -- Shermichael and I were talking about this earlier today. I would argue that it was actually effective in trying to reach some of the people that he's talking about, in part because what they were doing was undermining some of Trump's strength with those - with those groups. So, I don't think - I would not agree that - that those audiences were untouched by what the Obamas did last night. 
 
I also think, you know, they aren't the nominee. They're not - it is not their responsibility to lay out kind of the, you know, the economic messaging for the campaign. They were there to serve a role that I think they served quite exceptionally, which is to continue to fire up not only Democrats who are excited, but also deliver a message that resonates with independents, which I think that - that they did in kind of talking about the notion that we, you know, can get back to a place where politics isn't just about, you know, tearing each other down.
 
And so - so I think that actually they were - they were kind of speaking to those groups. But I - I certainly agree with Shermichael that there is work for - for Harris and Walz to do to get those numbers back up to, you know, the 90 percent of black voters who are voting for Democrats in - you know, in 2020, for example.
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
You have one huge problem that has to be jumped over today, and that is, how do you beat what happened last night with -
 
BEDINGFIELD: OK, great problem.
 
SIDNER: It's a nice problem to have. 
 
BEDINGFIELD: Like, I will take that problem. If you give me a list of problems that we need to - that we're going to have.
 
SIDNER: Shermichael is -
 
BERMAN: I was curious where you were going with that.
 
SIDNER: I know. I saw you all looking at me.
 
SINGLETON: I was wondering.
 
BERMAN: Oh.
 
SIDNER: Shermichael was like, oh, he's about to get it. He's all (INAUDIBLE). Yes.
 
BERMAN: She's going after Kate.
 
BEDINGFIELD: I will take that problem.
 
SIDNER: She's coming for her.
 
BEDINGFIELD: I will take that problem all day long.
 
No, well, I actually - OK, so in some ways I maybe disagree with that framing because I think the Obamas are - they're in a class of their own, right? 
 
SINGLETON: That's true.
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
SINGLETON: Definitely true.
 
BEDINGFIELD: I mean, they are. They're - in terms of their - their oratorical skills -
 
SINGLETON: Yes.
 
BEDINGFIELD: In terms of how Democrats feel about them, they are exalted. I would argue, as they should be. 
 
But - so, you know, I don't think the challenge tonight is for, you know, for Tim Walz to deliver a set of remarks that feels oratorically sort of more powerful than what the Obamas did. I think the challenge tonight is for Tim Walz to talk to the country about who he is, about who Kamala Harris is, and about what they're going to do in office. And I think we've seen Tim Walz be an incredible asset for this ticket since he joined. I mean he's a terrific campaigner. We saw him even last night briefly in Milwaukee. He brings an energy that I expect we're going to see on stage here tonight. And - and I'm excited to see what he does.
 
BERMAN: To both of you, and I guess, Kate, first, because you are an alum, a veteran of the Biden administration, was there any sting in it when Michelle Obama said that she was feeling some - I'm sorry, but she did say - 
 
BEDINGFIELD: No, it's all right.
 
BERMAN: She said she felt something that she hadn't felt in a long time, and that was hope.
 
BEDINGFIELD: No, there was no - I will say as a - you know, obviously, I don't speak for Joe Biden anymore, but, you know, for me, as a Biden alum, and for those I've been talking to, no, there's no sitting in that. She was acknowledging that we're in an incredibly exciting moment. Democrats are united. They're fired up. They're very excited about Vice President Harris, who, by the way, is an important partner to Joe Biden in the White House. 
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
BEDINGFIELD: So, no, there's no sting in that.
 
SIDNER: You want to say something, Shermichael? SINGLETON: I mean - I mean, you know, she did say that. And Mrs. Obama does not parse her words. She's very clear. She's always distinct in what she wants to say and how she wants it to be interpreted. 
 
Tonight, though, I just want to touch quickly, I wonder if Walz and the former president can sort of expand that. We saw the White Dudes for Harris.
 
SIDNER: Yes. 
 
SINGLETON: He was chosen for that purpose, I would argue. Can they have a concise message to potentially expand those voters in Pennsylvania and Michigan. Maybe some of those white guys who are on the fence who are thinking, look, this economy isn't working for me. Some of the cultural changes, I'm not really filling. Can they reach those folks and say, hey, this is a Democratic Party that's still for you? 
 
We've had ten years, I would argue, of seeing them shift to Republicans. Can they pull some of them back? Can they peal some of them off? I think that has to be their duty tonight. 
 
BERMAN: Shermichael Singleton, Kate Bedingfield, great to see you.
 
SIDNER: Thank you, guys.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Good to see you. Thanks for having us.
 
SINGLETON: Thanks, guys.
 
BERMAN: Really appreciate it.
 
SIDNER: That was fun.
 
All right, a wild of fantastically fund roll call, OK, some big energy at the Democratic Convention last night. I know you know who he is, but can Lil Jon help translate that to votes, y'all. We'll speak to a longtime Latino political activists who also happens to be Lin Manuel Miranda's father.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:54:36]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. (D) AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We are so honored to be your nominees. This is a people powered campaign. And together we will chart a new way forward.
 
A future for freedom, opportunity of optimism, and faith. So, to everyone in Chicago and across America, thank you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[08:55:02] BOLDUAN: And with that, Kamala Harris accepting the Democratic Party's nomination for president last night after the roll call vote. As Harris tries to shore up support across the base, her campaign is also making a very big push to win Latino support, win back some Latino voters, and win amongst Latinos in a very big way this election. It's become a priority, especially since former President Donald Trump has shown to make real gains with Latino support in both the 2016 and 2020 elections. 
 
Let's talk about this. Joining me right now is Frankie Miranda, the CEO and president of the Hispanic Federation, and Luis Miranda Jr., who chairs the Latino Victory Fund. He's also Lin-Manuel Miranda's father. 
 
As a proud mother, I would - I always love when I'm known just as my kids' mom, so I just wanted to start with that.
 
Thank you both for being here. 
 
Frankie -
 
LUIS MIRANDA, JR. LATINO VICTORY BOARD CHAIRMAN: Thank you. Thank you.
 
BOLDUAN: Of course. Of course.
 
Frankie, "The New Yorker" is asking a key question this morning in a headline. I'll pose it to you. "Can Kamala Harris' campaign solve the Latino turnout problem?" Do you think she can?
 
FRANKIE MIRANDA, CEO AND PRESIDENT, HISPANIC FEDERATION: Well, according to the poll that the Hispanic Federation and the Latino Victory Foundation have done, just right after it was announced, the VP choice for Kamala Harris and Walz ticket, we took a snapshot of the Latino community across the country and we saw that enthusiasm and interest in the election, the presidential election, has skyrocketed. This is something that we were hearing on the street with - through our canvassers and our organizations right after the announcement. And we can confirm now that more than 70 percent of Latinos are committed to go out and vote and more than 52 percent are basically saying that they are more enthusiastic about what is happening.
 
So, right now it is up to the campaign to really clarify many of the questions that they have. But the enthusiasm is there and the attention is there. 
 
L. MIRANDA: And it's interesting to note that in only three weeks Kamala Harris was able to move the pendulum from 49 percent, a little under half, who were ready to vote for President Biden, to 59 percent. The magic number, the rule of thumb in Latino politics, it's that you need two thirds of Latinos to vote for a particular party.
 
When Bush got 42 percent of the Latino vote, he became president. When Biden got 70 percent of the Latino vote, he became president. So, she's very, very close to that magic two to one match.
 
BOLDUAN: Look, support amongst Latinos is key. There's no ifs, ands ors - or buts about it. There's no question. And, Luis, that gets me to something you wrote back in May that is just as worthy to read today as well. You wrote this for "The Washington Post." "Those of us who have spent a lifetime working in Latino politics find ourselves fielding a single question these days, how can Latinos even consider voting for a candidate who suggests that immigrants are poisoning the blood of our country."
 
How do you answer that, Luis? What aspects of Donald Trump's message do you - do find are resonating so much? Is it - is it really all about the economy? 
 
L. MIRANDA: Actually, I don't believe it's about the economy. First of all are women. Latinas are much smarter than all men. They are already in the 60s supporting Kamala Harris for president. But our men, I believe, get caught in the aura of bravado that Trump presents to the world and get confused that you don't govern by saying crazy things. You govern by putting in place good policies to serve and help our communities. 
 
And I think that what Frankie said before, its true. Now the enthusiasm, it's there. Latinos were saying in the poll that their reading and they're learning about the campaign every day, every week. And I think that though there's still that gap among Latinas and Latinos, that it's going to be closing in the next 11 weeks. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. Bipartisan agreement, non-partisan agreement, women far smarter than men. Just saying.
 
Frankie, but this -
 
L. MIRANDA: Absolutely.
 
BOLDUAN: Exact. 
 
This gets to a key question, Latinos do vote on all issues and care about all issues. But we know that there is going to be, amongst other issues, a focus on immigration tonight. We know where Donald Trump stands on immigration. 
 <br>[09:00:00]
 
We have also seen Republican - Democrats, especially in the last year, in talk - in becoming more hawkish, more aggressive, more on.