Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Gov. John Carney (D-DE), Is Interviewed About Harris Takes DNC Stage On Last Night To Accept Presidential Nomination; Gwen Walz In National Spotlight As Husband, Tim, Runs For VP. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired August 22, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00]
 
ADAM KINZINGER, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Once you can't treat each other with even some common decency and respect, that's when self-governance and democracy fails, because we have to have a basic contract in this country that will operate by this basic standard, then we can disagree on everything else. That's where the threat to democracy is.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm curious, Congressman, what you think that Kamala Harris needs to say tonight that would attract Independents, those people who somehow are still on the fence, and we do talk to people who are still undecided, and -- and especially now, because, look, it's only been, like a month and a few days since she became the nominee. What does she need to say to sort of entice those folks to say, hey, you know what, I'm going to try the Democrats?
 
KINZINGER: Look, I think the big thing for her, I mean, look, neither Jeff nor I are expecting to go out there and say, hey, guess what? I woke up and I'm actually conservative now, right? I mean she's going to be who she is. She -- and I actually respect that she believes in what she believes. And that's what I think is a basic entry in politics. 
 
So it's not go out there and tell us the things we want to hear on policy, but talk about the fact that this country is so much more important than just our disagreements like this unity matters, strong national defense. I mean, this is an area to win over solid Republicans, is talk about the importance of Ukraine being victorious against Russia, one of our chief adversaries. So I think it's the talk about unity, just treating each other with respect and a strong foreign policy, I think would be good.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Lieutenant Governor, I am struck each time both of you come on, you talk about the journey that you've both taken in that you feel strongly and that it's all worth it. But has there been any pain in it for you? Has there ever been a moment where you felt hurt by what people your old colleagues have said to you?
 
GEOFF DUNCAN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes, certainly. I mean, there's some great friends that are no longer great friends. There's neighbors who won't look at you. There's folks at your kids' schools that won't talk to you when you check them in. There's -- there's issues that -- that do arise. But look, this is a long game for us. I think Adam and I both would agree we're not looking at this in short term, you know, sprints. This is not going to get fixed in one election cycle.
 
This is a timing issue. The timing is, how quickly are Republicans going to take their medicine? How quickly we're going to heal up? Eventually we will. We'll have to. We'll be obsolete if we keep running people like Donald Trump up here, because it just isn't -- he isn't a decent enough human to capture our attention and make good enough decisions to stand behind long term.
 
SIDNER: I think there are so many people that can -- that that resonated with where you're not talking to somebody, or people are avoiding you or not looking at you, and that is really deeply painful for so many Americans.
 
KINZINGER: Yes.
 
SIDNER: So thank you for sort of being able to -- to -- to put that all out in the table. It -- it's a hard thing that -- that a lot of people are dealing with. Gentlemen, thank you so much.
 
BERMAN: Good luck.
 
KINZINGER: Yes. Thanks, thanks.
 
DUNCAN: Break a leg, Adam.
 
SIDNER: And good luck to you.
 
KINZINGER: Thank you.
 
SIDNER: Don't mess it up.
 
DUNCAN: Don't mess it up. The -- the crowd looks a lot smaller when you're up there.
 
KINZINGER: Good. Thank you. I'm scared.
 <br>[09:32:47]
 
SIDNER: All right, the star of the show gives what will be the most critical speech of her career tonight, as Stevie Wonder had his say, Kamala Harris, it's now her turn. She takes the stage along with some musical guests. Who will it be tonight? Think of the color pink.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN: All right, we have arrived at the final day of the Democratic National Convention here in Chicago, although I keep reminding Sara Sidner that we will be broadcasting from here tomorrow morning.
 
SIDNER: I might not be here because, you know --
 
BERMAN: She's going to be here on time. Tonight, though, is the moment that everything has been building up to. That is when Vice President Kamala Harris takes the stage and speaks to the audience and speaks to the country.
 
SIDNER: Joining us now, Democratic Governor of Delaware, John Carney, thank you so much, sir. Coming in nice, bright and early after, I'm sure, a very long few nights, correct?
 
GOV. JOHN CARNEY (D-DE): Very long nights, it's great to be with you. A little rough this -- this time in the morning.
 
SIDNER: We're all suffering inside, but you look good outside. What do you want to hear from Kamala Harris? What do you think needs to be said after these very powerful three past days?
 
CARNEY: Well, first of all, the past three days have just been amazing. And unlike any other convention that -- that I can remember, and I've had the privilege to come to him as an elected official now for four previous conventions, and just the unity, the excitement, the enthusiasm. Usually we've got fights to work out, you know, and -- and that's not the case this time, it's just incredible. Of course, for those of us who are in Delaware with a personal relationship to the President, that was a kind of a little bit of a rough start, but he clearly did the -- the right thing for -- for the country and put his own self-interest to back and -- and -- and enabled this -- this great ticket to come forward.
 
I -- I'm -- I look forward to Vice President -- President Harris, talking to the American people. And telling her that she's one of them and that's who she's going to work for. And I think ultimately, that's what it comes down to. If you think about the messaging the last couple nights, it's been that. And -- and President Obama and -- and Michelle Obama and President Clinton last night just talking to people in words that they can understand.
 
I've been working hard this summer knocking on doors all over our state, and obviously a small population, but we've done about 10,000 doors. And people are -- they're not thinking about some of the things that -- that we talk about, the big policy issues. They're thinking about, how they're going to make ends meet, how they're going to pay their mortgage, how they're going to pay their -- their grocery bills. What about safety of their children in the neighborhoods, that kind of thing.
 <br>[09:40:12]
 
Kind of the way that Tim Walz, Governor Walz, approached his remarks last night, I thought they were incredible. I know him well as a former member of Congress. And he just talked to folks in the language that they can understand. And I think with a sense of empathy and decency and accepting, you know, everyone in our communities with equal respect. And I think turning it around away from the personal invectives to that, I think is important.
 
But I think she needs to speak to the American people directly. I think she will. I think she'll knock it out, just like everybody else has.
 
BERMAN: You know, it's interesting, you did mention that it was a rough start for the Delaware delegation watching President Biden, who did back out and give his address. That was night one. Does -- does any of that rough feeling and what has to be mixed emotion linger on night three? Is it less and less every day?
 
CARNEY: No. I just came from a brief meeting with the Delaware delegation, and they were as excited as everybody else there for the ticket. You know, one of the things that -- that I've noticed as -- as I've attended each night compared to previous conventions, is the incredible diversity that we have as a party now, which was -- was a struggle in years past, and --
 
SIDNER: It includes Republicans it turns out.
 
CARNEY: It does, apparently include Republicans.
 
SIDNER: I mean --
 
CARNEY: I serve with both of the two gentlemen who were on the, you know, before -- before I came on. And, you know, that's a tough thing that they're doing, and they -- they express the -- the challenges that they're facing. But I think it's about just common decency, you know. And I think that -- that really comes across when you hear from -- from Governor Walz. He's just a decent guy, school teacher, football coach, National Guardsmen service and -- and I'm sure the Vice President will -- will be the same.
 
SIDNER: Joe Biden was known for his common decency as well. And you talk about the people here at the convention and the delegates. And -- and of course, they're -- they're going to be excited they see -- they can feel the momentum. But when you talk to constituents, because Delaware, home state, Joe Biden, what are they saying to you? You know, they -- they might also be hurt. This is the native son.
 
CARNEY: Yes, I think they're proud of him now. I think --
 
SIDNER: OK.
 
CARNEY: -- you know, they saw some of the things the rest of us saw, and that we love Joe. We want the best for him. People were a little upset at first, but now they see how -- how this race has been transformed. And it's just a whole new race at this point in time. States that weren't in play before now in play. And I think the -- the interesting thing, or the difficult thing, it's going to be a small slice of electric that's going to decide this election in just a handful of states. You know, other states have decided one way or the other, which way they're going, people that I talk to the same way.
 
And you, you know, one of the things that President Obama said that really struck me is, don't demonize the people that don't agree with us. You know, we've got to get those folks to -- to support our ticket. And I -- I think it was a really a message that all of us have to embrace when we're enthused about the -- about the ticket and want to really talk down the other side, which you know that --
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
CARNEY: -- the differences are -- are so just plain as day.
 
BERMAN: Governor John Carney, thanks so much for being with us. Appreciate your time.
 
CARNEY: Thanks for having me. Yes.
 
BERMAN: All right, so I had an exclusive with Kamala Harris 12 years ago --
 
SIDNER: OK.
 
BERMAN: -- On the convention floor.
 
SIDNER: You know what John --
 
BERMAN: No, seriously, I was just -- we just remembered this, this week.
 
SIDNER: -- it's too early for this.
 
BERMAN: I worked the convention floor for CNN in 2012 in Charlotte. And I just remembered, this week on the floor, I spoke to the then California Attorney General. You have to check this out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: So many people are here getting their picture taken with her, because she is seen as a rising star in the Democratic Party. What's it like for you to be here today?
 
KAMALA HARRIS (D), VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Oh, it's so wonderful. And to be standing here in the midst of the California delegation, I'm a proud Californian. And -- and there's just great energy around this -- this election cycle. And people are absolutely committed to doing everything we need to do to get out the vote and get folks engaged. And -- and -- and get them to -- to express their voice.
 
BERMAN: You were one of the first elected officials in California to endorse Barack Obama in 2008. You've been a supporter of his since way back in 2004. As you sit here tonight and look back on these past, you know, eight, 9, 12, years, how has he changed?
 
HARRIS: Well, I think he has become the President of the United States. I knew him when he was first running for U.S. Senate. And a lot has happened in his career. A lot has happened in our country. And he is -- as -- he is right now, someone who I am so proud of as an American.
 
BERMAN: Thank you so much for joining us. The Attorney General of California, obviously a very popular person here, rumored as a possible Supreme Court choice at some point?
 
HARRIS: Oh, you know, I don't -- I don't like to sit down for a long periods of time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[09:45:02]
 
SIDNER: That was really good. You -- you were like the "Forrest Gump" of correspondence and anchors for everything I have ever said that I have done, John has a picture that always one ups me, and here he goes again.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: It's not just a picture. He's like, I did a story on that. I did a story on that.
 
SIDNER: And but literally, he did.
 
BOLDUAN: No. Yes, no, that -- that's what's so annoying. I'm like, I like choose spearmint gum. He's like, I did a story on spearmint gum. I will show it to you now.
 
SIDNER: I created spearmint gum.
 
BERMAN: The -- the -- whoever cut that did a favor to me. Because what was embarrassing about that interview, and it's actually pretty telling, seriously, is that as we were coming to her, I couldn't remember her last name. This was -- this is 2012 Kamala Harris wasn't a household name.
 
SIDNER: At least you said her first name correctly.
 
BERMAN: I called her Kamala, and I couldn't remember her last name, and that was on national television. So whoever cut that, thank you. But it does just go to show the evolution of -- of -- of how far she's come and how far I've come because I would have written it down. Now I write it down in case I forgot.
 
SIDNER: Yes. That was 12 years ago.
 
BOLDUAN: I was going to say, like, what happened -- what's all happened in 12 years, and you have now had your Kamala Harris exclusive, so now I know that maybe I'm up next.
 
SIDNER: And I'm after you, as usual, I'm in third. But you know what, I also noticed he still has the same hair. He looks so the same. It's upsetting.
 
BOLDUAN: Well, it's a helmet.
 
SIDNER: No work has been done here just so you know.
 
BOLDUAN: He puts on -- it's like a helmet he puts on. That's fine.
 
BERMAN: It's fine. No to helmets. It's still there.
 
SIDNER: There it is.
 
BOLDUAN: He's so handsome. He's so handsome, John.
 
SIDNER: He's such a cutie. BERMAN: All right.
 
BOLDUAN: I'm going to take it now. Or I -- I don't want to see --
 
SIDNER: OK.
 
BOLDUAN: -- staring at John. You were fine. OK. We'll be back to you guys in a second.
 
Coming up for us, from school grounds to Capitol Hill and the Governor's Mansion, Tim Walz's wife, Gwen Walz, the woman who's been standing side by side with him for so many years and now standing side by side with him as they jump into the biggest political fight of their lives.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:51:21]
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN): Hope, Gus and Gwen, you are my entire world, and I love you.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
WALZ: I'm letting you --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: That was such a moment last night, the world's getting a formal introduction to Minnesota Governor Tim Walz, and also an introduction to his family. He spoke of life as not only Tim Walz the governor, but also Tim Walz the husband, father, retired member of the military, former football coach and social studies teacher. And we also heard about it from the person who knows him best, his wife, Gwen, who he met when they worked in the same school.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GWEN WALZ, FIRST LADY OF MINNESOTA: That's where Tim and I met. We shared a classroom with a divider right down the middle. His classroom was a lot louder than mine, but I could hear how engaged his students were.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: Gwen Walz has been by her husband's side from the school grounds to Capitol Hill and then to the Governor's Mansion, and she's now thrust into a whole new spotlight as potentially the next Second Lady of the United States. We're joined now by someone who knows her well, Paul Pribbenow. He's the president of Augsburg University of Minnesota. He hired Gwen in 2019 to work at the school. It's great to meet you. Thank you so much for being here. You've known Gwen, I think you told my producers, you've known Gwen -- Gwen Walz for more than a decade. Who is Gwen Walz?
 
PAUL PRIBBENOW, PRESIDENT, AUGSBURG UNIVERSITY: Yes, so I met Gwen about 12 years ago when Tim was in the house. And, you know, from day one, she has been somebody who has been both deeply committed to the values that have shaped her, but also somebody who is just wonderfully relational and just a -- a, you know, just an authentic, genuine person that I've had the privilege to get to know over 12 years.
 
BOLDUAN: Authenticity and being genuine, it's really that seemed to come across putting politics truly aside, that did seem to come across during his speech last night and in his interactions with his family from the stage and when they came on the stage. Tell me about that dynamic as a family.
 
PRIBBENOW: Yes. Well, so fascinating, because Gwen does work for me. And of course, we meet regularly, and I always sort of joke that we spend half of the time that we have together talking about our families. We happen to have Hope, their daughter, and Thomas, my son, were started college at the same time, and so we had tales to tell about what that was like, especially during the pandemic. And -- and that's really the piece of this. I mean, their family is their, you know, is their foundation, and, you know, they -- they show up at volleyball matches that Gus has, and they've supported Hope in her college career. And so, so that is just -- it is just who they are.
 
BOLDUAN: And talk to me about, I've seen Tim and -- Tim Walz and Gwen Walz described as a -- as a real team. I also saw that you -- you said that Gwen Walz kind of fought off the First Lady moniker as Tim was taking on the governor the -- when they moved into the Governor's Mansion, tell me about that?
 
PRIBBENOW: Yes. Yes, I remember conversations about how she felt about having that label put on her. And it wasn't that she didn't understand the ceremonial aspects that we're going to go along with the role, but they have truly been partners. And I see that really from the time I met her, where her commitment to a particular college in the prisons program, which is how I first got connected to her, was something that was her own thing, and it was something that she wanted to run with.
 
So she has an agenda for the value she has that come alongside Tim. So she supports him. She plays that role, the social role and the like. But she also is somebody who really clearly has a mind of her own and a set of commitments that she's really pursuing and everything she does.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. College in prisons is -- is an -- such an important, fascinating topic. I'd love to talk more about that another time. She's not new to public life as we well know. But this is a whole new kind of spotlight -- kind of spotlight, and a harsher one. We've seen that in criticism coming at the governor over how he's talked about his resume, criticism over how the governor has talked about their journey with fertility that actually led to Gwen putting out a statement to talk about it and to clarify. How do you think that impacts her? How -- how -- how do you think she will manage that harsh spotlight?
 <br>[09:55:25]
 
PRIBBENOW: Yes. Well, she's faced it many times. And she faced it actually during the first year of his gubernatorial term, when she got involved with the prisons program and -- and was seen as perhaps taking on role that was not what folks thought she should do. And -- and she takes it all in, but she doesn't give up on those commitments that she has. And I think, you know, I -- we've watched the ways that all of these issues have been litigated in the president and the media, and, of course, they've been through many of those things before, so they -- they know what it's like to have those kinds of attacks. And they keep their head up and they keep going. You know, she's somebody who, as I think you've probably read, she makes things happen, and that's who she is.
 
BOLDUAN: Can we almost even -- you're almost even hinting towards kind of the sports metaphors and the coach metaphors that we've been hearing kind of throughout. President Pribbenow, it's great to meet you. Thank you so much for coming in. I really appreciate your time.
 
And thank you all so much for joining us today. This is CNN News Central. CNN Newsroom is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]