Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: GOP Rep. Jim Jordan: 2024 Election Was Free And Fair; Sen. Sanders On Joe Rogan's Podcast: "Get On The Show"; Democratic Soul- Searching Continues After Election Loss; "Saturday Night Live" Takes On Trump's Election Victory; Dana Carvey Lampoons Elon Musk On SNL. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired November 11, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[06:31:41]
 
DONALD TRUMP (R) PRESIDENT-ELECT OF UNITED STATES: They've already started cheating in Lancaster. They've cheated.
 
They'll try. And they are trying, you know, though. It's too big to Rick.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
BRIAN KILMEADE, FOX NEWS HOST: What worries you the most?
 
TRUMP: Cheating.
 
KILMEADE: Which one though? Which state?
 
TRUMP: No -- all of them. I mean, they cheat all of them.
 
(END AUDIO CLIP)
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: They cheat in the weeks leading up to the 2024 election. Then candidate Donald Trump repeatedly made false claims of widespread election fraud in an attempt to once again so doubt in the integrity of the results, just like he did in 2020. When asked in advance if they would accept the election results this time around, his allies would often respond with this conditional refrain.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MIKE JOHNSON, (R) SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: If we have a free, fair, and safe election.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If it's a free and fair election, I will accept the results. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Ever since Trump's victory last week, Republicans have said very little about the integrity of this election. Our next guest asked one of the GOP's most influential House chairmen about exactly why that is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: There were false claims about election fraud when Donald Trump lost. This time, Donald Trump won, and you think the election was free and fair. You see, there's a little bit of a.
 
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): No, I think the Democrats got to ask, why did we go from getting 81 million to getting 70 million? What happened to those 10 million people? Maybe they need to -- maybe it's not smart to run an election where you have no vision, no record to run.
 
BASH: Do you believe that the 2024 -- 
 
JORDAN: Just call the other side names.
 
BASH: Do you believed that the 2024 election was free and fair?
 
JORDAN: I do. I do.
 
BASH: And why was it different from 2020 when he lost? Is that the only difference?
 
JORDAN: No, there were concerns about 2020 with all the mail-in voting that happened.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: OK. Joining us now is CNN's chief political correspondent, Dana Bash. And of course, you saw there, she's the co-host of "CNN'S STATE OF THE UNION," also the host of "INSIDE POLITICS."
 
Dana, good morning.
 
BASH (on-camera): Good morning.
 
HUNT: Wonderful to see you.
 
BASH (on-camera): Happy Monday.
 
HUNT: What possibly could be the difference between 2020 and 2024?
 
BASH (on-camera): I've been trying to figure it out for the last 24 hours, and I think I've come up with it. He won!
 
HUNT: Wow! Astonishing! No, I mean seriously.
 
BASH (on-camera): Yes. It's -- it's -- and look, I have seen some like, you know, some people on the, on the left online saying, you know, where are the 10 million votes? What happened to them? But what matters the most is that the Democratic leadership up and down, starting with Kamala Harris said, I lost this election, called him to concede, didn't claim one ounce of fraud or cheating because there isn't any evidence, widespread evidence of fraud or cheating. And we were going to have a peaceful transition. And this is how it's done.
 
And we all knew that if he actually won free and fair, that this would be the case. But I just felt that it was important to make this point because the concept of cheating was so widespread cheating.
 
Certainly, there's all there always (INAUDIBLE).
 
HUNT: Right. But there's always the issue. And the reason why the statement is always these are false claims is that there's never enough evidence that it would change the outcome.
 
BASH (on-camera): Correct.
 
HUNT: Right?
 
BASH (on-camera): Correct.
 
HUNT: Even if there are a handful of ballots or registrations, right?
 
BASH (on-camera): Correct.
 
HUNT: Every election, obviously, we need the officials to be making sure that they are continuing to do that. But -- 
 
BASH (on-camera): And the integrity -- 
 
HUNT: -- is not so big (INAUDIBLE).
 
BASH (on-camera): Correct. Yeah. And the integrity of our electoral process is so fundamental, and it was so undermined by Donald Trump and his allies, making all of these false claims to the point that there was an insurrection and you were at the Capitol that day.
 <br>[06:35:12]
 
So now that we are in a different place, the shoe is on another foot. I think I just felt that it was important to -- to make that point.
 
HUNT: Yes. Matt Gorman, I mean, I appreciate seeing Republicans say this was a free and fair election and it's, I mean, the results are very, very clear. But do you think that this means, and honestly, I feel grateful it was a clear result one way or the other for the sake of the country.
 
MATT GORMAN, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Yes.
 
HUNT: But I'm interested in what you think Republicans and how they should be talking and leading on this now, especially because this again should be, you know, you're only allowed two presidential terms.
 
GORMAN: Yes. HUNT: This is Donald Trump's last presidential term.
 
GORMAN: Yes. Yes, look, I actually echo exactly what you said. I was talking to a lot of folks in the lead up for the election. And they were saying, look, like they just want a clear result, right? Like they didn't want -- they don't want any murkiness, not coming down to a state, God forbid, you know, it's a Florida, you know, 2,000 again, where it's hundreds of votes separating a clear result, I think was very helpful for the country in both aspects, right? A clear loss, a clear win.
 
And I think you're right. Hopefully, I hope this turns the page on a lot of the stuff from 2020 and a lot of that. And I think you're exactly right, a clear result in the long run is so much more helpful (INAUDIBLE).
 
BASH (on-camera): I just want to add, and I don't think that you were suggesting anything other than this, but I want to say it flatly. There was a clear result in 2020.
 
GORMAN: Yes, no, that's not what I know.
 
BASH (on-camera): I know. I know.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BASH (on-camera): But because it was so undermined -- 
 
GORMAN: Yes, yes.
 
BASH (on-camera): -- to put a certain, try to put a stake in the heart of this notion that there's widespread cheating and fraud. Again, does it happen on a small level? Sure. Are there mistakes because people are human and machines get messed up? Absolutely.
 
But as you said, certainly not enough to change the election in 2020. And this election, it was very clear.
 
HUNT: Yes. Alex Thompson, what do you hear from Democrats on this on this question and how they're taking it in? Because I also think it's worth, as Dana noted, there's a concession call. The President is hosting Donald Trump at the White House on Wednesday, I believe, right?
 
I mean, they clearly think that it's important to send a message to the country that this is going to be a peaceful transfer of power.
 
ALEX THOMPSON, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST (on-camera): Yes, and they feel that Republicans are still not being blamed for playing with fire before the election. I mean, you had Republicans going out there talking about one undocumented immigrant in Michigan being able to cast their vote, acting as if this was indicative of widespread fraud.
 
I think there's also a little bit frustration of that. They're not being rewarded for just, you know, basic democratic, like Democratic -- Democratic, like small T democracy behavior when Trump didn't do the same thing four years ago.
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
MEGHAN HAYS, FMR BIDEN WHITE HOUSE DIRECTOR OF MESSAGE PLANNING: Yes, I mean, we I remember during the transition, we didn't know if he was going to leave the White House on the 20th. We were not sure. There were many plans in place of what happens on the 20th if he's still there. I mean, because staff comes in, they have to flip the House. There's a lot of things that happen.
 
And so, living through that experience, it's really nice to see the President and the Vice President do what were supposed to do. And democracy that wasn't afforded to them and sort of take the high road. But I think that sort of how Joe Biden has spent his whole career. Right? No one ever gives him the credit for some of the stuff that he's doing, and he's continuing to go along with our institutions and that the traditions that we have in this country that make it so powerful because that is core to who he is.
 
HUNT: Yes. Dana, while I have you, I also want to ask you about the interview you did with Bernie Sanders over the weekend. You -- you -- you talked to him and he talked a little bit about Josh -- Joe Rogan and the Joe Rogan experience. Let's watch that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): Look, you can have an argument with Rogan, agree with him, disagree with him, but what's the problem going on in those shows? It's hard for me to understand that.
 
You have an alternative media out there, a lot of podcasts that have millions and millions of viewers. Get on the show. Disagree with you here. I agree with you there. I don't see a problem in doing that. And you're right, I got vilified by some of the Democratic establishment because I went on Rogan's show. Now a lot of other people are doing just that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Bernie Sanders is a bit of a lightning rod at the moment as Democrats are sort of, the recriminations are ongoing among them.
 
What do you make of what he kind of had to say overall and specifically about that?
 
BASH (on-camera): Well, I, the reason I wanted to ask him about Joe Rogan is because in the days since the election, you've heard a lot of Democrats saying, we need to find our own Joe Rogan. And Joe Rogan was their Joe Rogan. And so -- so that -- 
 
HUNT: Joe Rogan was basically a Bernie supporter.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BASH (on-camera): He endorsed him. And so, the -- the question that I -- and I wanted to sort of illuminate this, shine a light on this with my interview with Senator Sanders was, that, to me, is such a prime example of where Democrats have kind of lost those people.
 
Now, the point I was making with him is that there are a lot of things that Joe Rogan says and believes that a lot of Democrats just totally shun. He's said not great things about some social issues that Democrats don't agree with. He doesn't support vaccines.
 <br>[06:40:02]
 
And so that is part of the reason why when Bernie Sanders went on the show, he got vilified, but him getting vilified by a lot of people on the left is case in point of the intolerance among a lot of people in the Democratic Party who claim that their whole mission is to be tolerant one.
 
HUNT: Isn't that kind of a central piece of the -- 
 
BASH (on-camera): Yes.
 
HUNT: -- conversation Democrats are having now about why this happened?
 
BASH (on-camera): It is. It is. It is. And that's precisely why. Now, Bernie's -- Bernie. It's Senator Sanders.
 
HUNT: I covered the man. I was on the road with him -- 
 
BASH (on-camera): Sorry, Senator.
 
HUNT: -- for a really long time. Everybody calls him Bernie, but I agree with you. We're sitting in Washington (INAUDIBLE).
 
BASH (on-camera): You know, his whole thing is we -- we -- we -- our policies are not geared toward the working people. We went back and forth on that because President Biden's policies were geared toward the working people in a lot of ways. But it's also about the culture, the messaging, the approach, and that is, I think, the sort of Joe Rogan example is -- is a key one.
 
HUNT: Well, I was going to say, so I -- again, I spent six, eight months on the road with Bernie Sanders.
 
BASH (on-camera): Yes.
 
HUNT: And, you know, honestly, the rallies that I went to in 2016 that had the most energy were Bernie Sanders rallies and obviously Donald Trump rallies. I then went on to cover Hillary Clinton. It was a totally different experience. Those voters in those Bernie Sanders rallies were often people who would say, when you would ask them, OK, who's your second choice? This guy's probably not going to win. They would say Trump.
 
BASH (on-camera): It's the horseshoe theory.
 
HUNT: Right?
 
BASH (on-camera): Yes. HUNT: And it's a cultural thing.
 
BASH (on-camera): It's a cultural thing, but it's also us against them. I mean, when I've talked to several Democrats, sort of veteran Democrats since the election, they're often about, you know, what the Harris campaign could have done sort of more of, it was more of wasn't so much her policies. It was the language of fighting against the man, fighting against corporations, being there for you in a way that Bernie Sanders, obviously he -- it's in his DNA, but that's also the appeal of Donald Trump as incongruous as it might be since he's a billionaire. That is the appeal.
 
HUNT: Yes, but he's a billionaire from Queens who was always shunned by the elites.
 
BASH (on-camera): Precisely.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HUNT: Yes, identify that.
 
GORMAN: Real quick I think also the focus on Rogan it's indicative of a larger problem. You know Kamala Harris didn't lose because she didn't go on Joe Rogan. She lost because what not going on Rogan it was informed by a broader strategy, I think of not taking risks, not being creative not being scrappy so to speak. Kicking a bunch of field goals and hoping the other team would just, it turned the ball over and implode on their own.
 
And I think that is in a lot of respects. I just can't pick what was one thing that she did. It's like, oh, you know, that was pretty creative. That was pretty inventive. There really wasn't one.
 
HUNT: Your daddy was pretty different.
 
HAYS: Depends (ph) on audience.
 
GORMAN: But it was a sympathetic, it was talking to their own audience, there was very little room for any sort of error or disagreement, that's your point.
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
A. THOMPSON (on-camera): Well, and that wasn't building a bigger tent, right?
 
GORMAN: Yes.
 
A. THOMPSON (on-camera): I mean, the people that are listening to Call Her Daddy were mostly already Kamala Harris supporters, at least I think that's how the campaign felt about it at the time. It was about rallying people, you know, especially young -- young women, young single women who are already inclined to support her.
 
BASH (on-camera): Yes. A. THOMPSON (on-camera): Joe Rogan would have been about people that are maybe skeptical of her. The whole Bernie conversation, Senator Sanders, is, yes, there's a Democratic -- there's a Democratic circular firing squad right now and he has a bazooka right now and, and you're going to see a lot more to come.
 
HUNT: Yes, well, Nancy Pelosi clearly is -- was -- was piqued by what Bernie Sanders had to say.
 
GORMAN: Look who's talking. Yes.
 
HAYS: Exactly.
 
HUNT: Yes, I mean, I think -- 
 
BASH (on-camera): And then Jamie Harrison, the DNC chair, called it BS. But, you know, he stood by it. I asked him about all that.
 
HUNT: Yes, no, for sure. And I -- I think Bernie in particular is a -- in some ways, he's a stand in in all these Democratic conversations for the recriminations against the left of the party, but he sort of stands on the left in a way that's different, I think, than what you got at with your Rogan interview.
 
Dana, thank you so much for being here.
 
BASH (on-camera): Thank you for having me.
 
HUNT: I really appreciate it.
 
BASH (on-camera): Thank you.
 
HUNT: All right, coming up next here on "CNN This Morning," Saturday Night Live's first post-election show, the cast's message to the President elect after Tuesday's results.
 
Plus, Democrats reckon with Trump's victory, how party members are playing the blame game. Mark McKinnon joins us to discuss.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Anyone who's saying now this was not a winnable campaign didn't say that back in August. The reason we didn't win ultimately is we didn't listen enough to people on the ground.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[06:48:39]
 
BILL MAHER, HOST: For months, Democrats have been saying, how is this even close? And they're right. It wasn't.
 
They could not conceive of a second Trump term, but they should have. When does America ever turn down second? I mean, come on.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Democratic soul searching continuing over the weekend. The party trying to figure out where to go from here. A number of Democrats now beginning to speak out about what they think led to their disastrous election night results. They've offered an array of different diagnoses. Here's one of them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. SETH MOULTON (D-MA): We have a wing of our party that shames us, that tries to cancel people who even bring up these difficult topics, and frankly, shames voters. This is the same group of people who told us to defund the police, who told us that there wasn't a problem at the southern border. Who told us that inflation was transient, whatever that means, and who told us that Biden was just fine? And they're out of touch with voters.
 
If we just listen to voters on all of these issues, they were telling us the truth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: All right. Joining us now, former advisor, George W. Bush and John McCain, Mark McKinnon, also the creator of Paramount's The Circus.
 
Mark, it's Monday, it's always great to see you.
 
This is our first, you know our -- our first Monday in the Trump transition, shall we say. The Moulton interview there, I'm -- I'm really interested to know what you had to say, because, I have to say about it. Because in so many ways, this interview kind of encapsulates exactly what he was talking about. He was on there, I don't know if you read the Chiron, it said he's responding to backlash over his own comments. This is what he had said.
 <br>[06:50:14]
 
Democrats spend way too much time trying not to offend anyone rather than being brutally honest about the challenges many Americans face. Mr. Moulton, again, he tells the New York Times this quote, I have two little girls. I don't want them getting run over on a playing field by a male or formerly male athlete. But as a Democrat, I'm supposed to be afraid to say that.
 
And then he has to go and do this interview and this is how he puts it -- he basically says I didn't use exactly the right words when I said that.
 
Watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MOULTON: Look I was just speaking authentically as a parent about one of many issues where Democrats are just out of touch with the majority of Americans. And I stand by my position even though I may not have used exactly the right words And I'm willing to have this debate as I've been having with LGBTQ advocates and others, some of whom agree with me and others who don't.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Does that not just encapsulate exactly the entirety of the issue people are trying to put their finger on?
 
MARK MCKINNON, CREATOR "THE CIRCUS": That is so perfect, Kasie. Yes, you know, I mean, the, the, maybe the only good news of this election for Democrats is that it was such a thorough ass kicking that it's really, you know, there's no sort of, there shouldn't be a debate over was it this or was it that? It was everything.
 
And again, I'd say that just from experience you spend enough time in the desert, you're going to find water with the Democrats are now in the desert and they're going to have to figure out how to find water again. And Bill Clinton did it after the Reagan years with the new Democrats. George W. Bush did it with compassionate conservatism. Donald Trump did it with Make America Great Again.
 
But the clear message for Democrats is you got to rethink everything, especially when Donald Trump has stolen the very coalition that was the backbone of the Democratic Party, the working class of America. And when you look at the demographics of the new coalition, what Trump built of black voters, Hispanic voters, young voters. Man, this is, you know, this is, again, not one thing or the other, it's everything. Democrats have to start from scratch, and they got a lot of work to do.
 
HUNT: Yes. Mark, Maureen Dowd put it this way in the New York Times over the weekend. She said, the headline is Democrats in the case of mistaken identity politics. Quote, some Democrats are finally waking up and realizing that woke is broke. The party embraced a worldview of hyper political correctness, condescension, and cancellation. This alienated half the country or more and the chaos and anti-Semitism at many college campuses certainly didn't help.
 
And I was reading over the weekend also one voter was speaking to a reporter, had to pick one word for each. They picked the word crazy. It was a woman. She picked the word crazy for Donald Trump. She picked the word preachy for Kamala Harris and then was asked, OK, who'd you vote for? She says, I voted for Donald Trump because crazy doesn't look down on me.
 
What do you make of that?
 
M. MCKINNON: That's -- that's really great. I mean, there's no question that most Americans thought the Democratic Party had just become condescending. That it had become a party of sort of the faculty lounge that thought that they were better than everybody else.
 
Your discussion on the Rogan podcast is a good one because I think that that's going to America where they are. And Rogan is a guy whether you agree with him or not is really, you know, like you said, he was Bernie before he was Trump. He's -- he's -- he's kind of, you know, at least seems to be open minded. And the notion that you would only communicate with audiences that are sympathetic to you. Rogan will listen. And the interesting thing about Rogan's audience is you think about the new sort of media ecosystem.
 
Rogan has more -- more, has a greater audience, 11 million people than NBC, ABC, CBS, CNN, and MSNBC combined, which is about 10 million on a good night. So, you can hit Rogan, go where the voters are, fish where the fish are, that's what Democrats have to do.
 
HUNT: Yes. Mark, when you say, when you're in the desert you got to rebuild, in many ways that often comes in the form, especially considering how we do politics, of a single person, whether it's Bill Clinton in 1992 or Barack Obama in 2008, probably the sharpest example. you know, he gave that speech at the convention that nominated Kerry. And so, then he kind of burst onto the scene. But he wasn't -- he wasn't really there before that.
 
Democrats, you know, part of why Joe Biden decided that he was going to run again was because I mean, yes, they did better than expected in the midterms. That was a huge part of it. But also, there was no kind of natural successor that he thought could win, could beat Donald Trump.
 
Who do you think is out there? Who are Democrats going to look to try to take up the mantle in four years?
 <br>[06:55:02]
 
M. MCKINNON: I'm so glad you brought up this point, Kasie, because I, hundred percent agree with this. It's not going to be one policy or one thing or one messaging strategy or going to just go into Rogan. As I said, it's sort of everything, but it also requires -- it requires somebody to hold the torch and say, follow me, we're going this way. It was Clinton. It was Bush. It was Trump.
 
It requires, it's leadership that coalesces under -- under somebody that's willing to sort of march forward under the banner. I don't know who that's going to be yet, but that's what -- that's what the next four years is going to be all about. I mean, I like Gretchen Whitmer. I like Josh Shapiro. I think those are both really good political athletes that, you know, you know, come from the places where, you know, the coalition needs to be rebuilt as this kind of a heartland of America. I mean, I like Whitmer because she's been through a lot and I, you know, I want to see one president in my lifetime.
 
And I just -- I don't think, I, you know, I -- maybe it's naive, but I don't think that Americans are voting against Democrats just because of a woman candidate, I think in a lot of ways America's needs a woman candidate and wants a woman candidate that is more trustworthy and believable and credible than most of their male counterparts.
 
I think there were other fundamentals of work again, maybe naive, but I'd like to see it in my time. And I think -- I think Whitmer's it's got, you know, it's a good natural athlete. But again, there's others like Shapiro and but again we'll see over the next four years, but that's -- that's a really good point. I'm glad you made it. Thanks, Kasie.
 
HUNT: All right. Mark McKinnon. Always grateful to have you on the show, sir. Thank you so much. I'll see you next week if not before.
 
M. MCKINNON: Great (INAUDIBLE).
 
HUNT: All right. Turning now to this, a throwback. This was Saturday Night Live eight years ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KATE MCKINNON, SNL CAST: I'm not giving up and neither should you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: That was how the SNL cast opened their first show after Trump's win in 2016. Kate McKinnon, as Hillary Clinton, mournfully, you may recognize Leonard Cohen's Hallelujah. You could really almost hear the emotion in her voice.
 
Now, SNL striking a notably different tone after the second Trump victory.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HEIDI GARDNER, SNL CAST: Donald Trump, who tried to forcibly overturn the results of the last election, was returned to office by an overwhelming majority.
 
KENAN THOMPSON, SNL CAST: This is the same Donald Trump who openly called for vengeance against his political enemies.
 
That is why we at SNL would like to say to Donald Trump, we have been with you all along.
 
SARAH SHERMAN, SNL CAST: And we're so excited to debut our new impression, Hot Jacked Trump.
 
JAMES AUSTIN JOHNSON, SNL CAST: That's right. That's right, it's me, Hot Jacked Trump. They finally got the body right.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Only took eight years, Alex.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
GORMAN: Yes, well, I mean, like you had Kate McKinnon 2016, but you didn't even have Jimmy Kimmel and Stephen Colbert. You're used to crying on camera. It's like, guys, this is prime opportunity for comedy. And they leave it on the table. That was -- that was at least pretty funny.
 
FRANK FOER, STAFF WRITER, THE ATLANTIC: And they're mocking something that's totally real. I mean, the sense of resignation. That confronts the second Bush term is real. And then you saw Jeff Bezos in the Washington Post.
 
HUNT: Second Trump term.
 
FOER: Yes, sorry, sorry. Chickening out in the face of all this by not endorsing it. You can see Jeff Bezos starting to accommodate himself to Trump. You see all the way in which Elon Musk, all these oligarchs who were anti-Trump at one point now becoming pro-Trump. That's naturally happening and it's actually worthy of political satire.
 
A. THOMPSON (on-camera): I don't say I -- I -- I'm glad they at least tried to be funny this time. And then the second thing, sort of to his point, I think you're going to see a very different reaction from the left of this country in response to the second Trump term than you saw in the first.
 
HUNT: Fair enough. All right. You mentioned Elon Musk. Let's just -- he -- he also well, he was impersonated as well on SNL.
 
Let's watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
K. THOMPSON: And worst-case scenario, meaning scenario, if our planet falls apart, we can all go to Mars with the other man that we love and trust, Elon Musk!
 
DANA CARVEY, SNL CAST: All right. Check it out, Doc (ph) MAGA! Yes!
 
But seriously, I run the country now. And America's going to be like one of my rockets, you know, they're super cool and super fun. But there's a slight chance it could blow up and everybody dies. I'm Darth Vader! See you in the White House! USA! USA!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: All right, and this is already, I mean, Elon has -- Musk has clearly been around in Mar-a-Lago already. Kara Swisher, I talked to her the day after the election. She's like, I don't think there's going to be room for these two people for very long because these two egos are going to clash with each other.
 
But for now -- 
 
GORMAN: I don't know what we'll see. I mean, look who, who hosts SNL the last 10 years, Donald Trump and Elon Musk, right? Shows how much like things have kind of shifted, right? Where they were, they've kind of been turned on in a lot of ways. Donald Trump today as a presidential candidate which was a funny thing back in 2015 doing the hotline bling dance.
 <br>[07:00:11]
 
HAYS: He -- he -- Elon Musk needs Donald Trump now more than Donald Trump needed Elon Musk in the -- in the election time, which he did need. So, to your point, I don't know how much longer he's going to stay being on Zelenskyy calls and some of these foreign leader calls. It's pretty wild, so I think it'll, time will tell how long Elon Musk stays around.
 
HUNT: (INAUDIBLE). Well, all right guys, thank you very much for being with us today. Thanks to all of you for joining us as well. I'm Kasie Hunt.
 
Don't go anywhere, "CNN NEWS CENTRAL" starts right now.