Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: House Report Finds Evidence Matt Gaetz Paid For Sex & Drugs; Packers Shut Out Saints, Clinch Playoff Berth; Previewing A Big Year At The Box Office. Aired 5:30-6a ET

Aired December 24, 2024 - 05:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:33:22]
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR:  Five-thirty-two here on the East Coast, 2:32 with a live look at Los Angeles. Most people, I think, still sleeping, or maybe just heading to bed, depending on what you're up to these days. 
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Rahel Solomon in today for Kasie Hunt. Wonderful to have you with us. 
 
From squabbling with witnesses at congressional hearings to instigating the ousting of former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, Matt Gaetz's approach has long made him a controversial figure in Washington.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATT GAETZ (R), FORMER U.S. REPRESENTATIVE:  And it makes people -- you may not see this from, you know, like the ivory towers of your law school, but it makes actual people in this country when the president calls -- you don't get to interrupt me on this time.
 
From those who would grovel and bend the knee for the lobbyists and special interests, who own our leadership, who have -- oh, boo all you want.
 
I rise to nominate the most talented, hardest working member of the Republican conference who just gave a speech with more vision than we have ever heard from the alternative, I'm nominating Jim Jordan.
 
Speaking -- what night are you speaking? Are you speaking tonight? You took that stage. You would get booed off of it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  But the newly released House Ethics report sheds light on allegations that have long plagued Gaetz, ultimately leading to the downfall of his attorney general bid under Donald Trump. 
 
It was unclear whether the report would ever be made public, especially since Gaetz resigned from Congress and then dropped out of the running for attorney general and still has the backing of Trump. But according to the report, quote, although several committee members objected, a majority of the members of the committee agreed that the committee's findings should be released to the public. 
 
Joining me now is D.C. correspondent for the "Nevada Independent", Gary -- Gabby Birenbaum, and Washington correspondent for Spectrum News New York One, Kevin Frey. 
 <br>[05:35:07]
 
Good to see you both. 
 
Gabby, let me start with you. Now that it's out, how does this impact Matt Gaetz? I mean, what happens now for him? 
 
GABBY BIRENBAUM, DC CORRESPONDENT, THE NEVADA INDEPENDENT:  I would imagine Matt Gaetz's career is probably done in Washington, although you never know. Stranger things have happened. 
 
Look, I think the fact that this report was even released, right, for a former member who had resigned, who had taken himself out of any potential to be in the administration, shows just how little love there was for Matt Gaetz in the house. This is not someone who was beloved by his colleagues. This was someone who was really a thorn in their side. 
 
And so I think the fact that this report even came out is just sort of the latest -- the latest evidence of that. 
 
SOLOMON:  Kevin, I want to get your reaction to something. So this was in an op-ed in "The New York Times", written by the deputy editor of "The New York Times" Editorial Board, David Firestone. And he says in it, when you read through the details, you can see the commonality between the two men and the reasons Trump held Gaetz in high esteem. It's not just the contempt for women as disposable commodities for hire or plunder, it's the contempt for the law. 
 
So, Kevin, do you think we continue to see Trump standing by Gaetz? And does this hurt Trump at all? 
 
KEVIN FREY, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT, SPECTRUM NEWS NY1:  Well, I mean, we already saw that message you had earlier in the show that Trump wrote to Gaetz. And this is kind of the one open question, which is, yes, he was not confirmed by the Senate and his campaign was just getting out. There was no love lost for him, particularly on Capitol Hill. But could he potentially try to put him into a position in his administration that doesn't require confirmation on Capitol Hill? That's kind of the one outstanding question. 
 
And certainly, Trump still has him in his orbit and clearly appointed him as AG before. Obviously, that all fell apart because he saw him as someone who was an ally and someone who could act in his interest to essentially try to tear down or upend the Department of Justice. And so it is an open question as to where exactly he lands next and how long he will stay within Trumps graces. SOLOMON:  Yeah, I think one thing sort of heading into the new year
 
 that's also an open question is, is mike Johnsons future? I mean, obviously totally, completely different. But I want to ask you about the upcoming speaker election. 
 
Here's what one Republican said earlier this week. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  You told me earlier this week that you that Speaker Johnson does not have your vote on January 3rd. Is that still the case? 
 
REP. THOMAS MASSIE (R-KY):  Even more so. He doesn't have my vote. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Gabby, let me start with you. I mean, after just the whole spending debacle, budget debacle last week and sort of how it all came together literally at the very last minute, what happens now for Speaker Johnson? 
 
BIRENBAUM:  I think what happens now for Speaker Johnson, there are two questions we have to parse, right? Number one, are enough Republicans frustrated with him to depose him as speaker? I think that number -- that answer is definitely yes, right. Given the margin, 1 or 2 votes there, you know, scores of Republicans who feel like he's been a poor leader. 
 
The second question is, are they willing to sort of start off 2025 this year, that they're coming in with a trifecta in government? Trump returning to the White House? Do they want to start that with a protracted speaker battle? 
 
And I think one person who will, you know, give us clues as to how to answer that is Trump himself, right? Does Trump want to expend political capital saving Johnson if it looks hairy on the hill? And I said, I think that will be, you know, the top story line to look for as we move into the speaker battle at the beginning of January. 
 
SOLOMON:  And, Kevin, to that point, where is President Trump on Speaker Johnson? I mean, initially and you heard Speaker Johnson say just moments after the house passed the bill that he had just spoken to Trump. Trump, you know, I'm paraphrasing here, but he said something to the effect that that Trump was sort of happy or pleased with how it all came to be. Politico has some reporting that Trump is anything but pleased with how it all came about. 
 
Where does Trump stand on this? 
 
FREY:  Right. And I mean, to build off of what was just said, Representative Tim Burchett, who was one of those that voted to get rid of McCarthy last Congress or the currently ending Congress, basically argued the other day to some reporters on the Hill that this is all going to be decided by Trump and what he wants. He's going to be the one that picks the next speaker of the house. There was that reporting in politico, which is pretty for Johnsons future, in no small part because Trump is reportedly very annoyed that he doesn't see Johnson as having enough of a spine to do his bidding on the idea of the debt ceiling, which has, because it did not get done within this most recent package, it gives Democrats a deal of leverage heading into the next Congress.
 
Democrats already had a deal of leverage heading into the next Congress because of the fact that the margins are so slim, because of the filibuster in the Senate and because, quite frankly, Republicans struggle to coalesce as a unified group. And when you have a vote margin of 1 or 2 at most, getting things like reconciliation, a giant tax package done is going to be difficult. Throw in the animosity that could be caused by a speaker fight, and that sets up a recipe for really disaster for their legislative agenda. 
 
SOLOMON:  Yeah. Stay tuned. Gabby Birenbaum, thank you. 
 <br>[05:40:00]
 
Kevin Frey, thank you as well. Good to have you both. 
 
And still ahead on CNN this morning, the year ahead promises to be a big one at the box office. Well take a look at some of the most highly anticipated movies of 2025. 
 
Plus, the Green Bay Packers lock in their spot for the playoffs. More on that when we return with our CNN sports update. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON:  Welcome back and time now for sports. 
 
The Green Bay Packers secured their spot in the playoffs with the first shutout in the NFL this season. 
 
Carolyn Manno has this mornings CNN sports update. 
 
Carolyn, good morning. 
 <br>[05:45:01]
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Rahel. 
 
Well, the Packers as you know, have one of the most passionate fan bases in all of sports. And the team gave the cheeseheads one of the best Christmas gifts that they could possibly given last night in this game. 
 
Green Bay didn't get much of a challenge from the Saints on the frozen tundra of Lambeau Field, we'll just put it that way. The green and gold scored touchdowns on each of their first three drives, and it was pretty much over after that. The Packers cruising to a 34-0 rout. As you mentioned, the first shutout in the NFL this season. 
 
So Green Bay now headed to the playoffs for the fifth time in six seasons. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JORDAN LOVE, GREEN BABY PACKERS QUARTERBACK:  It's big time. You know, that's something that obviously the goal is Super Bowl. So that's the first step right there is making the playoffs. Obviously this was a big time game to clinch that spot and proud of the way we came out here and handled business. And yeah, so it's big time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO:  And you will have to wait too long to get your next NFL fix. 
 
Netflix has a Christmas day doubleheader coming up tomorrow. It starts with the Chiefs visiting the Steelers at 1:00 Eastern, followed by the Texans hosting the Ravens at 4:30. Millions of fans will be tuning in to watch Houston native Beyonce perform during halftime of the second game. Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson says he plans to catch the show even though he should be making halftime adjustments. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAMAR JACKSON, BALTIMORE RAVENS QUARTERBACK:  I'm going to go out there and watch. Yeah, go out there and watch, man. My first time seeing Beyonce perform and its at our game. That's dope. I'm going to go out and watch. Sorry, sorry, sorry, fellas. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO:  Can you blame him? It feels like the Super Bowl. You could say Joel Embiid second game back from his sinus fracture did not go well. Just before halftime the Sixers star called for a charge against the Spurs Victor Wembanyama. Embiid picking up a technical foul for arguing the call. 
 
Then he followed referee Jenna Schroeder around the court, earning another T and the second ejection of his career. The Sixers would go on to win the game 111-106, the final. 
 
Turning to hockey, Buffalo finally back in the win column, the Sabres dominating the Islanders to the tune of 7 to 1 last night, putting an end to their 13 game losing streak. Captain Rasmus Dahlin led the way with a career high four assists, while 20 year old forward Jiri Kulich notched his first ever two goal game. 
 
The Sabres and their fans can savor this one for a while. They're off until Saturday, when they host the Chicago Blackhawks. 
 
And in a donation tradition that has happened each year since 2018, look how great this is. This is fans of Spanish La Liga soccer team Real Betis and making it rain during halftime of their match on Sunday, showering the pitch with thousands of cuddly stuffed animals. And these toys are going to be donated to disadvantaged children over Christmas and the New Year.
 
Fans setting a new record this year, by the way, collecting 20,000 toys, all of them going to somebody in need. I just think its so sweet. A magical sight, something you certainly don't see every day, but for a good cause. Love it. 
 
SOLOMON:  Yeah. No. That's beautiful. 
 
All right. Carolyn Manno, thank you, Carolyn. 
 
All right. From superheroes to action blockbusters and timeless fairytales, audiences are gearing up for an incredible lineup of 2025 movie releases. 
 
Here's a taste of some of the most anticipated films. 
 
(MOVIE CLIPS PLAY)
 
SOLOMON:  And joining us to discuss is the host of "Boston Globe Today", Segun Oduolowu. 
 
Great to have you, Segun. Good to have you this morning. 
 
SEGUN ODUOLOWU, HOST, BOSTON GLOBE TODAY:  Thank you, Rachel. As you can see behind me, it is Christmas. It's Christmas Eve. I'm excited. 
 
So, yeah, let's talk some films for 2025. 
 
SOLOMON:  And I see you're in Los Angeles, which means were really pleased to have you. Thank you for waking up early to be with us today. So we just saw that that Warner Bros. footage from James Gunn's "Superman" reboot with Krypto the superdog, the first look at a lot of new characters. What can we expect there? 
 
ODUOLOWU:  Well, you can expect mixed results because this movie is getting savaged online due to the trailer. I mean, Superman is bleeding in the snow, Superman doesn't bleed. You know this again. They are rebooting Superman. I'm not sure why. 
 
It's one of those characters that, for whatever reason, he doesn't seem to connect with audiences. What we can expect are multiple characters, right? Characters that we haven't seen before. I don't want to spoil it. They've already shown you Krypto the -- you know, the wonder dog. 
 
So they are swinging for the fences, hoping that this reboot will be similar to when Spider-Man rebooted again and again and again. 
 <br>[05:50:07]
 
I've got my fingers crossed. I'm a comic book guy, but this Superman kind of like the flash that we saw before. I don't think it's going to. I don't think its going to wow audiences. But again, fingers crossed. 2025. Hope. Hope springs eternal. 
 
SOLOMON:  We'll see. Certainly going into the New Year optimistically. So let's talk about some of the other movies. So you have the second part of Wicked for Good, the continuing the story of Elphaba and Glinda. Mission impossible, final reckoning, and then the live action Snow White. 
 
What else can we expect to see next year? 
 
ODUOLOWU:  Oh my God. So if 2024 was about sequels and prequels and just like a regurgitation 2025, is that in overload? There's "Avatar 3" that's going to be out. There's going to be another Mortal Kombat 2 that nobody asked for, but they're going to do. 
 
You mentioned the mission -- you mentioned "The Mission Impossible" story finally coming to its head that long movie that Tom Cruise has, you know, has had gestating for years. 
 
There's also a movie that's going to be cute, "Bad Guys 2", which is a which is an animated flick with animals that are, you know, were once thought of as bad guys, but now do good things. 
 
So there's "Den of Thieves 2", which again, no one really asked for this movie, but I'm kind of excited. It's got Ice Cube's son in it at reprising his role. 
 
So there are -- there are going to be a lot of movies that are just going to be the follow up from what we saw in 2024, because that's what seems to sell. There's even another "Captain America" movie from Marvel. So buckle up, it's sequels again and again and again. 
 
SOLOMON:  What about there were some whispers, just whispers. But there were some whispers about another Black Panther. Do you know anything about that? 
 
ODUOLOWU:  You see? Listen, look, you and me need to start our own fan fiction, because there has been whispers about another Black Panther. Allegedly, it was going to be his sister, and she was going to be taking up the mantle. 
 
But as of yet, it's been absolute radio silence. And I'm -- look, I saw Black Panther one. I was there, I had on, you know, I had on my dashiki and Wakanda forever. I saw the second one kind of let me down, because no one can replace Chadwick. But if they do a third one and they kind of skew it the way Disney has done before and make a female protagonist and make a female hero out of his sister, I would love to see that. I'd love to see that. 
 
So again, fingers crossed. Let's start that fan fiction page and make sure that it happens. 
 
SOLOMON:  Yes, we're on to something. Clearly going into the New Year with maybe a new project sort of happening here. And then just lastly, as someone who sort of follows the space so closely, what are you personally looking forward to in the New Year in terms of box office? 
 
ODUOLOWU:  Well, I'm hoping that people will come to the box office. Well, you know, its been a while since we saw Barbenheimer, right? We saw Barbie and Oppenheimer kind of galvanize people back to the theaters, and we haven't really seen this, like Moana 2 kind of outdid expectations. "Deadpool and Wolverine" in 2024. 
 
I want to see people get off their couch. Leave that 80-inch flat screen that everyone seems to have hanging on their wall in some room and go to the theaters. 
 
A lot of these movies need to be experienced with popcorn, reclining, people talking, sticky floors, like, you got to get out back to the theaters. And I'm hoping that people will do that. And I'm hoping that the industry will stop taking the movies out of the theaters and putting it on streaming before people can enjoy them in the cinematic experience. 
 
So that's what I'm hoping for. I'm hoping the movies bring us back to the theaters again. 
 
SOLOMON:  It's such an interesting point. I was just recently saying to a friend, let's go see Mufasa. And my friend said, oh, we can just wait for it to come. And I'm like, oh no. Like, I think the movie is the movie experience to your point. Its, you know, it's just fading. Consumer habits are changing. 
 
But great to have this conversation with you. Have a merry Christmas. That's Segun Oduolowu. Thank you.
 
ODUOLOWU:  Thank you, Rachel. Merry Christmas. 
 
SOLOMON:  Merry Christmas. 
 
All right. And up ahead on CNN THIS MORNING, a bombshell report. The House Ethics Committee releases its long awaited findings in their investigation into Matt Gaetz. 
 
Plus, why some of America's biggest companies are lining up to pledge their donations to the president-elect's inauguration. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES:  One of the big differences between the first term -- in the first term, everybody was fighting me. In this term, everybody wants to be my friend. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:59:09]
 
SOLOMON:  Good morning. It is Tuesday, December 24th. Merry Christmas Eve. 
 
And right now on CNN THIS MORNING:
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's important for the public to see it and draw their own conclusions. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Report released. An ethics panel finds evidence that Matt Gaetz paid tens of thousands of dollars for sex and drugs while serving in Congress. 
 
Plus --  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SENATOR-ELECT JIM BANKS (R-IN):  Panama is -- is taking advantage of the United States of America. 
 
TRUMP:  Well, hello, Arizona. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Pandemonium over Panama. New reaction this morning over Donald Trump's threat to take back the Panama Canal. 
 
Bill Clinton hospitalized. The former president, taken to the hospital after developing a fever. We'll have an update on his condition. 
 
And later --  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAREN AGNIFILO, DEFENSE ATTORNEY:  Frankly, Your Honor, the mayor should know more than anyone about the presumption of innocence.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Tainting the jury pool. The lawyer for the suspected killer calling out New York City's mayor over that staged perp walk. 
 
(MUSIC)