Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Gov. Maura Healey (D) Massachusetts on Harris And Trump Square Off Tonight At High-Stakes Debate In Philadelphia; New Video Shows 2023 Police Interview With Georgia Shooting Suspect; Police Release Bodycam Footage Of Tyreek Hill. Aired 7:30-8a ET

Aired September 10, 2024 - 07:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:31:00]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  This morning, a guarantee you will hear about the economy in tonight's debate. 
 
So what do experts say about what the candidate's economic proposals would mean for inflation, jobs, and the deficit? Well, we have one -- an expert, that is. CNN's Matt Egan is with us now. What are you hearing, Matt?
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER:  Well, John, we better hear about the economy tonight. It's the number one issue on the minds of the voters. And one of the big questions here is what do these two candidate's proposals mean for inflation? Are they going to build on the recent progress or perhaps unwind some of it?
 
Let's start with former President Trump. His agenda includes energy dominance. He wants to drill for a lot more oil. Now, obviously that's the exact opposite of what climate scientists say we need and there's some debate over how much more oil we could be drilling. But directionally, still, all else equal, more supply would, of course, help with prices.
 
We've talked a lot John, you and I, about tariffs. Trump is calling for massive tariffs. That is really alarming economists because it could actually raise prices on all of us consumers. 
 
What hasn't got enough attention though is the impact of his immigration crackdown. He wants to deport 10 to 15 -- actually, perhaps up to 20 million immigrants. There's a lot of debate over how many undocumented people there are here and how any of this would withstand legal challenges.
 
But still, there is some research that warns if he's able to do mass deportations it would make inflation go up and it would cause GDP to go down. That is all very concerning here because obviously businesses -- they need more workers, not fewer.
 
Now, let's take a look at the Harris agenda. Vice President Harris has tried to show that she is very concerned about the affordability crisis. She has called for investing in affordable child care. 
 
She also wants a $6,000 tax credit for newborns. Now, that's something that would be politically popular although you've got to remember that would actually stimulate demand. So that's something that could actually be inflationary. 
 
On the supply side of things Harris has called for three million new housing units. That would be designed to address this massive housing shortage. But Harris is also calling for $25,000 downpayment assistance. That is something that has concerned some of the economists that I've talked to. 
 
Justin Wolfers told me that the problem right now is too many people chasing too few houses. The solution is not to give people more money to buy houses.
 
So the key here would be, of course, John, that the supply of houses comes before the demand stimulus.
 
BERMAN:  That is a really good explanation, Matt, of the differences here. You will hear about both these plans I imagine, in some way, tonight.
 
EGAN:  We will.
 
BERMAN:  Thank you very much for that.
 
EGAN:  Thank you, John.
 
BERMAN:  And Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  All right.
 
Joining us now to continue the discussion, Democratic strategist Julie Roginsky, and Bryan Lanza, the former deputy communications director for the Trump-Pence campaign. Thank you both for being here. 
 
First, just to both of you, and I'll start with you, Julie, because you're here next to me. Is this a make or break moment for these candidates or is one far more vulnerable than the other?
 
JULIE ROGINSKY, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST:  Well, I think it's more important for Harris than it is for Trump because Trump is already established in people's minds. You either love Trump or you hate Trump. There's nothing Trump's going to say that's going to suddenly make you say oh, my God, I now believe in Donald Trump, or I now hate Donald Trump. 
 
For Harris, she's not as well-known. And actually, I was talking to my mother the other day and she said I don't know much about Kamala Harris but I'm going to vote for her just because I don't like Donald Trump, right? 
 
So that's the kind of voter that Harris needs to appeal to in the sense that people don't know much about her despite the fact that she's been an elected official for many years. So, for her, this is an introduction to America in a way that it's not for Trump, and so the stakes are a little higher for her.
 
SIDNER:  Bryan, your thoughts on whether or not this is a make or break moment. And as Julie points out, in polling, most people do know Donald Trump -- know more about Donald Trump certainly than they do Kamala Harris.
 
BRYAN LANZA, FORMER DEPUTY COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, TRUMP-PENCE CAMPAIGN:  Oh, I would agree with Julie. It's a 100 percent inflection point for the Harris campaign. You know, President Trump is largely defined. Nobody's either shocked or disappointed, or anything with what he says, so it doesn't move the needle anymore. But with Harris, she's still trying to define herself.
 <br>[07:35:00]
 
You see recent polling that comes out that says she's now sort of in a category of extreme liberal. She needs to sort of fight that image. But if it's cemented, that image, there's very little that can be done between now and the end of the campaign because it's the last opportunity she's going to have to sort of talk to the -- this type of audience.
 
And if President Trump's successful at reinforcing her San Francisco liberal image she's going to have a very tough battle.
 
SIDNER:  This perhaps will be the largest audience to see these candidates ever. You can go out on the stump, but this is -- this is where a lot of people will get to know or get to know them again. 
 
Let me let you listen to a couple of things. One, Jason Miller talking about Kamala Harris and how it looks like they're going to try to frame her. And Kamala Harris on The Tavis Smiley Show talking about what she expects from Donald Trump. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON MILLER, TRUMP SENIOR ADVISER:  It's very clear that Kamala Harris is the one who's been running the country the entire time.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  ...really old and tired playbook, right, where he -- there's no floor for him in terms of how low he will go. And we should be prepared for that. We should be prepared for the fact that he is not burdened by telling the truth. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER:  Um, Julie, when you hear those two things do you think that they're both spot-on and it kind of tells you what they're expecting and how they're expecting this debate to go down?
 
ROGINSKY:  Well, first of all, I don't think she's been running the country the entire time. Joe Biden's been running the country the entire time, although she's been a partner with him. 
 
And by the way, she should own that. Look, the strongest economy, strongest job creation, strongest stock market. On the economy alone she's got a good story to tell. She can talk about how she can improve it more, but the reality is if that's the way Jason Miller wants to portray her, she should own that and lean into it.
 
In terms of the way she's been portraying Trump -- look, you know, they are taking a different tact. They're not saying that he's a threat, he's the anti-Christ, but they're basically saying he's old, he's tired, he's old news. Same old, same old. Let's move on from him because we know Donald Trump and we're kind of tired of Donald Trump. 
 
It's an interesting tactic and I think it's one that's designed to annoy him. Because, of course, all Donald Trump wants to be is the center of attention. And if you're relegating him kind of to the dustbin of history, nothing drives him more crazy. I mean, he had a press conference where he talked about what a celebrity he is and has been for so many years. That's what's important to him. 
 
They're trying to get to him by using kind of this old, tired playbook with him to make him seem not as viable and not as important as he wants to be.
 
SIDNER:  Bryan, do you think that tact is going to draw out some of the worst sides of Donald Trump if she goes down that road?
 
LANZA:  No. Like I said, people have already passed judgment on President Trump, so no matter what the theatrics are going to take place at the debate it's not going to shock anybody. But I do think it would probably be a wasted opportunity for Kamala Harris to sort of try to bait President Trump. 
 
She still has to fill in her record in the eyes of the voters. She was the co-pilot to this inflation express that the -- that the American people have felt. She has to address that -- and she doesn't have a good answer. Her only answer is let's give the people more money. Let's give them -- let's cancel student debt. Let's give them more -- you know, these tax credits. And, sort of, let's add more inflationary to the -- to the pot. And I think that's going to be her challenge. 
 
And so her threat necessarily isn't trying to bait President Trump. Her threat is her Joe Biden record. And she was a co-pilot to his administration, so whether it's immigration, inflation, or these wars abroad, she was there. Afghanistan -- she was the last one in the room when President Biden made the disastrous exit in Afghanistan. She owns a lot of bad things. 
 
And when you try to talk about the economy, the problem that Harris has about talking the economy and talking about record job growth is nobody believes it. You know, turning on the switch during COVID and letting people go back to their original jobs is not job growth. And the fact that they're still trying to sell that just shows how disingenuous they are to the American people.
 
SIDNER:  The job growth numbers are there, though, if you -- if you look at them. Economists are saying yes, the economy is good. But people are frustrated with the prices and that seems to be the sticking point there. So we will hear plenty, I think, about the economy during this debate.
 
 It is the number one issue for Americans.
 
Bryan Lanza and Julie Roginsky, thank you both so much -- appreciate it.
 
And follow CNN for complete coverage and exclusive analysis before and after this historic debate. The "ABC NEWS PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE" simulcast here on CNN, 9:00 p.m. Eastern. Don't miss it -- Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  New this morning, Georgia investigators have now released body camera footage from an encounter last year with the teenager accused in the deadly school shooting last week. The video shows sheriff's deputies speaking with Colt Gray alongside his father after being tipped off about concerning online posts. 
 
And also this morning, the suspect's mother is speaking out about the call she made to the school the morning of the shooting.
 <br>[07:40:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARCEE GRAY, COLT GRAY'S MOTHER:  The counselor said well, I wanted to let you know that earlier this morning, one of Colt's teachers had sent me an email that said Colt had been making references to school shootings. Between my gut feelings, the text messages, and now this email, you all need to go -- like, run to the classroom. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN:  CNN's Ryan Young is live in Georgia for us. Ryan, what's the very latest?
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, Kate, just a lot of red flags here. Obviously, you can hear what the mother said before this shooting happened. 
 
But when you talk about investigators, back in 2023, neighboring county Jackson County was sent to this home after an FBI tip. They were able to track and I.P. address and they were able to get to the home. 
 
Now, before this video starts you can hear the dad basically talk about the fact that his son was bullied all the time in school, and he was using hunting as a way to sort of make a connection with his son. And said if this was true that he was going to take the guns away from him and they wouldn't be doing hunting. 
 
But take a listen to yourself. Watch this video. It's bone-chilling.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Did you say something about a school shooting?
 
COLT GRAY, COMMITTED MASS SCHOOL SHOOTING:  Never. I just told them I don't know what. Maybe they misheard somebody else. I would never say that (INAUDIBLE).
 
POLICE OFFICER:  You never, ever said --
 
C. GRAY:  No sir, I swear.
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Do you use Discord?
 
C. GRAY:  Discord?
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Yes, sir.
 
C. GRAY:  Um, I used to. I don't have it anymore.
 
POLICE OFFICER:  When was the last time you used it?
 
C. GRAY:  Like, a few months ago.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG:  Now this is Jackson County, not Barrow County, so it's unclear whether or not anyone from Jackson County ever said anything to someone from Barrow County. 
 
But you can see this building. You add in the fact that the mom was concerned. So many people have questions about how to move forward next.
 
Now, we know Barrow County Schools is going back to school today, except for the school where the shooting happened. But as you can imagine, there are parents who are still dealing with the outcomes from this shooting. 
 
One father talking about his daughter who survived the shooting but obviously is still in pain. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DOUG GRIFFITH, FATHER OF SCHOOL SHOOTING SURVIVOR:  A bullet went across her chest and through her arm. And then the other shot was through her wrist. She's still in pain. The shot through the wrist did a lot of damage. How it heals is just determined whether or not they need to do anything else or not. So it's just a -- it's going to be a slow healing process.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG:  Yeah. As you can imagine, Kate, a lot of people in this community still just heartbroken about exactly what happened. 
 
But as we look back at this investigative file, plenty of people have questions about what could have been done. You obviously understand those questions at this point -- Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  Yeah, and just hearing from that father and just -- as we can obviously appreciate, just centimeters -- inches from such a different outcome for their family. I mean, dear God -- and the long road that she clearly has ahead.
 
Ryan, thank you very much. That investigation continues -- John.
 
BERMAN:  All right. New this morning, police have released the bodycam video of officers detaining NFL star Tyreek Hill during a traffic stop just hours before his first game of the season. The video shows four officers -- sorry. The video shows officers arguing with Hill over having his window down before they dragged him out of the car. They handcuffed him face down on the ground. 
 
In an interview with CNN, Hill said he was still shellshocked from the incident.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TYREEK HILL, WIDE RECEIVER, MIAMI DOLPHINS:  I'm not trying to cause a scene because a) if I let my window down -- like, people walking by and driving by, they going to notice that is me and they going to start taking pictures. And -- like, I -- like, I didn't want to create a scene at all. Like, I just really wanted to get the ticket and then just go on about my way, and then just -- you know, just have a great Sunday. I guess the officers -- they felt like I wasn't doing it on they time, but I was -- I was doing it. 
 
But, you know, man, I'm still kind of shellshocked from it, man. Like, I'm embarrassed. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  Let's get right to CNN's Carlos Suarez who is in Miami this morning. What is the latest on all of this, Carlos?
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, John, as you noted, in response to all of the attention that this incident has received the Miami-Dade Police Department -- they released nearly two hours of body camera video capturing the encounter between Hill and officers.
 
Now, you're about to see parts of that encounter that began with the officer knocking on the driver's side window of Hill's sports car. Now, Hill, who was about to turn into the player's entrance at Hard Rock Stadium -- well, he takes issue with the officer's actions and things -- they go down from there.
 
Now, at one point, a second Miami Dolphins player who stopped to see what was going on -- he is also handcuffed and later let go. 
 
Here now is some of that body camera video.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Keep it down. Hey (knocks on window) keep that window down. Key the window down. 
 
HILL:  You going to tell me what --
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Keep your window down or I'm going to get you out of the car. As a matter of fact, get out of the car. 
 
HILL:  Hold on, hold on, hold on.
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Get out of the car. 
 
POLICE OFFICER:  I'm going to break that freaking handle. 
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Get out of the car.
 <br>[07:45:00]
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Get out. Get out. Get out. Get out. Get out. Get out! (Bleep)
 
What part of (INAUDIBLE) this car?
 
HILL:  Hey, Drew! Hey, Drew! I'm getting arrested, dude. I'm getting arrested. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on, bro. I just had surgery on my knee.
 
POLICE OFFICER:  You know who that is, right?
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Huh?
 
POLICE OFFICER:  You know who that is?
 
POLICE OFFICER:  No.
 
POLICE OFFICER:  It's one of the Dolphins' star players.
 
POLICE OFFICER:  Oh, yeah?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUAREZ:  All right. So a police union rep here in South Florida said that Hill was only detained because he was not cooperative and that he was allowed to leave after he was issued two tickets.
 
Now, in response to all of this, the Miami Dolphins -- who, by the way, they pay off-duty Miami-Dade police officers to provide security -- they released a statement that said, "What if I wasn't Tyreek Hill?" It's a question that will carry with resounding impact. 
 
"While we commend the Miami-Dade Police Department for taking the right and necessary action to quickly release this footage, we also urge them to take equally swift and strong action against the officers who engaged in such despicable behavior."
 
John, one last thing out here. The Miami-Dade police director said that one of the officers that was involved in this incident has been placed on administrative duties while an internal affairs investigation is now underway.
 
BERMAN:  A lot of this information coming out very quickly -- much more quickly than usual with still so many questions.
 
Carlos Suarez, thank you very much for all of that.
 
And I do understand, Sara, that we have sports news, including on the last place New York Jets?
 
SIDNER:  You needed to put that in, didn't you?
 
BERMAN:  The winless New York Jets. 
 
SIDNER:  Wow. The hate is real. But, you know, at least this is our favorite time of year, sweater weather. And as you mentioned, football season. Oh, yeah, it has started, so let's get into it.
 
Jets fans got their first real look at Aaron Rodgers after last year's season-ending Achilles injury where he hardly played at all. The 49ers did not give him a break at all. 
 
Jordan Mason rushed for a career-high 147 yards, including this five- yard touchdown in the third. That is obviously -- there we go -- there we go. 
 
Two first responders who helped save San Francisco 49ers rookie Ricky Pearsall after he was shot during an attempted robbery were honored before the team's season opener. Pearsall gave each of them signed jerseys and a gratitude-filled reunion on the field. You see him there.
 
Finally, family and friends gathered outside Philadelphia yesterday to remember NHL star Johnny Gaudreau and his brother Matthew at a joint funeral. Gaudreau and his brother were killed by a suspected drunk driver during a bicycle ride on August 29. 
 
During her eulogy, Johnny's widow Meredith revealed she was in her ninth week of pregnancy with the couple's third child. Matthew's wife Madeline is also pregnant -- Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN:  That's so sad.
 
SIDNER:  Yes, horrible.
 
BOLDUAN:  Compounding tragedy. Oh my God. Thank you, Sara.
 
The man that police in Kentucky are searching for -- he's still on the run. He's accused of shooting five people on a busy highway. And police have now learned that he vowed to "kill a lot of people."
 
And the maternal health care crisis in America and the literal links that women need to go to even see a doctor. We have the new data.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[07:52:40]
 
BERMAN:  All right, this is a live look of me and also the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. That is the location of the big debate tonight between former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris. With me now is Gov. Maura Healey from the Commonwealth of
 
 Massachusetts and a Harris campaign surrogate. Governor, thank you so much for being with us. 
 
As you can imagine, everyone's coming out with their advice this morning for both candidates. But for Kamala Harris, columnist Thomas Friedman, who was one of the first people to call on President Biden to leave the race, says that this is what Harris should say.
 
She should say, "Joe and I got a lot of things right, but we got something wrong, too -- and here is what I have learned. For my money," Friedman says, "uttering those 23 words, or something like them, is the key for Kamala Harris to win Tuesday's debate against Donald Trump -- and the election."
 
Separate herself from Biden. What do you think about that?
 
GOV. MAURA HEALEY, (D) MASSACHUSETTS, HARRIS CAMPAIGN SURROGATE:  Well look, I think Kamala Harris knows exactly what she needs to do tonight, and that's to spell out the very different vision that she and Donald Trump have for this country.
 
Kamala Harris, as people will see tonight, is for you. She's for the American people. Donald Trump is only for himself. 
 
I also think on policy -- you know, she's really going to get into it because first of all, Donald Trump hasn't said much about policy. There are two things we know about Donald Trump. He wants to make permanent the tax cuts for the ultrawealthy, and he wants to ban abortion in all the states. 
 
Kamala Harris, in contrast, wants to cut taxes for the middle class. She wants to make things more affordable -- things that Americans are really focused on like housing costs, like child care costs, right? 
 
And the differences are going to become really, really clear, including her really strong defense of reproductive justice and women's access to abortion, something that Americans -- Democrat and Republican, by the way -- all across this country are behind.
 
BERMAN:  So you're a former prosecutor, if I'm correct, and so is Kamala Harris. There are a lot of Democrats who want to see her go after Trump with some of those skills. 
 
But Matt Bai -- I told you there was a lot of advice -- from The Washington Post says that will not land with the Independent voter -- the swing voters. Maybe these Republican Haley voters who don't like Donald Trump. He says they are the key group.
 <br>[07:55:00]
 
And he says, "If you accept this premise, then you understand why going at Trump like a prosecutor would be a truly boneheaded strategy. You wouldn't be showing these right-leaning voters anything they don't already know about Trump. All you're likely to do, instead, is flash the kind of contempt they fear you might harbor for them." So what do you think about that?
 
HEALEY:  Well look, here's what's important. And you're right, I was a prosecutor and an attorney general. I actually served alongside Kamala Harris.
 
What's important when you're a lawyer in the courtroom is your client. And for Kamala Harris, her client is the American people. She is going to be the only one on the stage tonight who is talking to directly to the American people -- talking to you, right? Speaking to real concerns about the high cost of housing and inflation right now, and protection of the middle class and growth of the middle class. Continued job growth, for example.
 
Donald Trump, we know, is just going to ramble on and say a number of incoherent things. Maybe say some really crazy and outlandish things, dangerous things. 
 
But Kamala Harris, I think using her courtroom skills, will stay focused on the case. And the case is making the case to the American people about why she is going to be and should be the next commander in chief and President of the United States. 
 
I have every confidence in her ability to do that tonight regardless of the format. I know there's also been a lot of talk about format and obviously, I think Donald Trump was looking for any number of reasons to duck this debate and the deal with the microphones and whether or not they should be muted. His campaign wanted the microphones muted, of course. 
 
And so, Kamala Harris wanted everybody to be able to hear everything, of course, as I think the American people are entitled to hear. But she's going to play with whatever format she's given. Because for her, her focus is on us. It's on the American people and speaking directly to them. That's what we're going to see tonight. A clear contrast in this race.
 
BERMAN:  You brought up dangerous. The New York Times has a story -- I'm sorry I'm giving you so many quotes this morning but there was a lot in the papers. 
 
Maggie Haberman, Jonathan Swan, and others write about some of the things that Donald Trump has been speaking about lately. 
 
And they write, "He's been laying the groundwork to claim that there was large-scale voter fraud if he loses, a family tactic from his 2016 and 2020 playbooks, but this time coupled with threats of prosecution. Those who may face criminal scrutiny for purported efforts at election fraud, Mr. Trump has declared, will include election workers, a tech giant, political operatives, lawyers and donors working for his opponent."
 
Laying the predicate to basically argue the election, if he loses, is not valid. 
 
How dangerous do you think that is? HEALEY:  Yeah. Oh, very dangerous. And I served as attorney general during the Trump presidency, so I know firsthand about this and how dangerous he is to our democracy.
 
And, you know, John, speaking to the Independents -- to the swing voters out there this morning, speaking to those who maybe haven't made up their minds, I'm with Dick Cheney, OK? When Dick Cheney says he is going to vote for Kamala Harris, he's doing that because he knows what a threat Donald Trump is to our democracy.
 
So everything that Donald Trump has promised, make no mistake about it, he would do. He will weaponize the Department of Justice. He will attack and undermine those who stood against him. He doesn't play by the rules whatsoever. 
 
And that's why you see people, including many prominent Republicans, coming out and joining with folks like me and saying Kamala Harris needs to be -- must be our next President of the United States. Donald Trump can't be anywhere near the Oval Office.
 
BERMAN:  I do not think anyone in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 15 years ago would have imagined you would be saying one day I'm with Dick Cheney.
 
Massachusetts Gov. Maura Healey, thank you so much --
 
HEALEY:  That's right.
 
BERMAN:  -- for being with us this morning. I appreciate it -- Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN:  Very good point, John, absolutely.
 
We're also following this. This morning, we have a new look at the maternal health crisis that continues in the United States. The new data out from the March of Dimes shows that more than one in three counties in the U.S. do not have a single obstetric clinician -- no OB/GYNs available.
 
CNN's Jacqueline Howard is looking at this data and she's joining us now. Jacqueline, what more are you learning?
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER:  Yeah, Kate. Well, these counties where there's no maternity care -- they're called maternity care deserts, meaning there's no hospital or birth center offering obstetric care. There's no obstetric providers. 
 
And these counties are home to more than two million women of reproductive age, and many of them are concentrated in rural areas in the south, as you see on your screen here. 
 
Women living in maternity care deserts -- they're less likely to receive prenatal care and they experience higher rates of preterm birth, Kate. So this is the current state of the maternal health crisis in the U.S. right now.
 
BOLDUAN:  What factors are there in creating these maternity care deserts?
 
HOWARD:  We know that we're seeing more hospitals that are shutting down their obstetric units. Actually, between 2021 and 2022, one in every 25 obstetric units were closed in that timeframe, Kate. And we are seeing a physician workforce shortage right now in this country.