Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ceasefire & Hostage Release Talks Stall; U.S. Pauses Ammunition Shipment to Israel; Chinese Leader to Meet with Macron, Von Der Leyen; Bodies Found in Mexico Confirmed to Be Missing Surfers; Many Cultural Institutions, Landmarks Destroyed in Gaza; Hundreds Arrested at Pro- Palestinian Protests Across U.S.; Australia Under Siege from Global Warming. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired May 06, 2024 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome, everyone. I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company.
 <br>[00:00:32]
 
Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM, ceasefire talks at an impasse, with signs Israeli is set on a ground offensive in densely packed Rafah. 
 
The Chinese president on his first European visit in five years, hoping to bolster trade ahead of European elections.
 
And Mexican officials confirm the identity of three bodies found in a well as investigators work to find the motive. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Michael Holmes.
 
HOLMES: Now, despite the possibility of a Rafah ground invasion looming, ceasefire talks involving Israel and Hamas have stalled, but they're apparently not over.
 
In Rafah, well over 1 million Palestinians have taken refuge from the fighting, five times the pre-war population of the area. Israeli airstrikes there have already killed many people, but experts fear a ground invasion would result in the deaths of many, many more.
 
U.S. CIA director William Burns is in Doha and will remain there on Monday. An Egyptian source familiar with the negotiations tells CNN that Hamas negotiators are heading there, too. But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he will not accept Hamas's demand to withdraw the IDF from Gaza. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): We are not willing to accept a situation in which Hamas's battalions leave their tunnels, re-establish control over the Strip, rebuild their military industries, and go back to threatening the citizens of Israel and the communities near Gaza, the cities of the South and throughout the country. In such a case, the next October 7th would only be a matter of time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: At a Holocaust remembrance day event on Sunday, Netanyahu compared those events to what is happening today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NETANYAHU: Eighty years ago in the Holocaust, the Jewish people were totally defenseless against those who sought our destruction. No nation came to our aid.
 
Today, we again confront enemies bent on our destruction. I say to the leaders of the world, no amount of pressure, no decision by any international forum will stop Israel from defending itself.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: CNN's Paula Hancocks now with more on the talks and on Israel pulling the plug on the Arabic news outlet Al Jazeera in the country.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The latest rounds of negotiations in the ceasefire-hostage deal are over in Cairo. They certainly haven't ended with as positive a push forward as many had hoped. 
 
But at the same time, it doesn't appear as though the talks have broken down at this point. 
 
Now what we've heard from Hamas, the delegation has left Cairo. We heard from the political leader --
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): -- Ismail Haniyeh that there were "in-depth and serious discussions" and that they have given their response to the proposal that is currently on the table. 
 
What we've heard from the Israeli side is through Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has -- who has said that Hamas has stuck to what he called their extreme positions. The fact that they want a complete withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza and a complete end to the war, two things which Israel is not willing to give. Netanyahu saying that that would effectively leave Hamas intact to be able to -- to regroup, rearm, and then threaten Israel at a later date. 
 
We also know that the CIA director, Bill Burns, is on his way to -- to Doha. That's his next stop, where he'll be talking with the Qatar prime minister. 
 
HANCOCKS: Qatar, obviously, another key mediator when it comes to trying to secure this deal. 
 
Also, what we saw on Sunday was the Israeli cabinet voted unanimously -- HANCOCKS (voice-over): -- to close down the offices of Al Jazeera, the Arabic news channel, accusing Al Jazeera of harming Israel's security.
 
Now, they said it's effective immediately. We know that you can no longer see Al Jazeera or read Al Jazeera within Israel. They've also been confiscating camera equipment from the Jerusalem bureau. 
 
Now, Al Jazeera has rejected the accusations by Israel, calling it a criminal act to suppress free speech in order to cover up their crimes. 
 
We've also heard further afield, as well, from the Foreign Press Association. They said it's a dark day for democracy. The U.N. secretary general condemning this move, as well. 
 
And of course, it is interesting timing that Israel would do this --
 <br>[00:05:03]
 
HANCOCKS: -- considering Al Jazeera is funded by Qatar, and Qatar is a key mediator when it comes to this possible hostage deal. 
 
Paula Hancocks, CNN, Abu Dhabi.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: The United Nations' press organizations and human rights groups are condemning Israel's decision to ban Al Jazeera from the country, which of course, comes while Israel still prevents international media from going into Gaza.
 
The news organization's managing editor said the ban will not alter their editorial decisions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MOHAMED MOAWAD, MANAGING EDITOR, AL JAZEERA'S ARABIC CHANNEL: We will try to pursue all legal paths to counter this. But for now, the coverage will continue. And partial coverage will continue. We will make sure that we report both sides, despite the fact that we have lost the coverage from inside Israel, we are not able to operate there.
 
But we have other kind of methods to news gathering, and we will continue to be committed to the objective coverage that we have been committed to from the beginning of this war.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The U.N. human rights office issued this statement on social media: quote, "We regret the cabinet decision to close Al Jazeera in Israel. A free and independent media is essential to ensuring transparency and accountability. Now, even more so, given tight restrictions on reporting from Gaza. Freedom of expression is a key human right. We urge the government to overturn the ban." Now the U.S. defense secretary spoke with his Israeli counterpart on
 
 Sunday, reaffirming the United States's commitment to Israel's defense. 
 
This coming on the heels of the White House's decision to reportedly halt an ammunition shipment to Israel.
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez with the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: The Biden administration has paused a U.S.-made ammunition shipment --
 
ALVAREZ (voice-over): -- to Israel, according to a source familiar. 
 
Now that source could not disclose why that decision was made, but two important points. One, the source saying that it was not linked to a potential Israeli ground invasion of Rafah. That's in the Southern Gaza Strip, where more than a million Palestinians have been sheltering. 
 
ALVAREZ: It's also not going to affect other shipments as of now. That is to say that this is a decision that was made on one particular shipment. 
 
Instead, U.S. officials maintaining that they have the same policy toward Israel. This does not signal a policy change and that security assistance continues to go to the region. 
 
Now, according to a National Security Council spokesperson who said the following, quote --
 
ALVAREZ (voice-over): -- "The United States has surged billions of dollars in security assistance to Israel since the October 7 attacks, passed the largest ever supplemental appropriation for emergency assistance to Israel, led an unprecedented coalition to defend Israel against Iranian attacks, and will continue to do what is necessary to ensure Israel can defend itself from the threats it faces."
 
Of course, that's supplemental that is referenced in this statement is that $26 billion for the Israel-Hamas conflict that was passed by the U.S. Congress and signed by President Biden last month. 
 
ALVAREZ: Now of course, all of this, though, comes as those --
 
ALVAREZ (voice-over): -- hostage talks are ongoing, the U.S. dispatching CIA Director Bill Burns to the Middle East to continue these talks. He's often dispatched during intensive parts and phases of these negotiations. 
 
And those are all very much ongoing. U.S. officials have said this is a top priority for the White House, but also noted that the talks are fluid, and it's not clear when or if a deal is reached.
 
ALVAREZ: But a source telling CNN that the CIA director will stay in the region for -- on Monday and perhaps in the days to come. 
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Russia air strikes bombarded Ukraine's Kharkiv region as people celebrated Orthodox Easter on Sunday. At least one person was killed, 24 others wounded in the drone and bomb attacks.
 
Ukrainian officials say residential buildings were also damaged. 
 
Ukrainians marked Easter by holding services in damaged churches, with one woman saying it's even more important to worship now that her husband is fighting in the East of the country.
 
Meanwhile, Ukrainian soldiers on the front lines took a brief break from the fighting in order to mark the holiday, though they say they long to celebrate with their families. 
 
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sending an Easter message to the country, saying God is with them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Russia violated all the commandments, coveted our house, and came to kill us. The world sees it. God knows it. And we believe God has a chevron with the Ukrainian flag on his shoulder.
 <br>[00:10:09]
 
So with such an ally, life will definitely win over death.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: As its war rages in Ukraine, Russia is preparing for its annual Victory Day parade. 
 
Troops marched during rehearsals in Moscow, while fighter jets flew overhead. The parade is Thursday, marking the 79th anniversary of the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany.
 
President Vladimir Putin is expected to lead the events. Over the past 16 years, the country has stepped up its military show of force, using V. Day to show off its latest weapons, warplanes, tanks, and nuclear- capable ballistic missiles. 
 
And amid the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, Chinese President Xi Jinping is visiting Europe for the first time in five years. 
 
After arriving in Paris on Sunday, he will meet with the French president, Emmanuel Macron, and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in the coming hours. Later on Monday, he'll be honored at a steak dinner.
 
Mr. Xi's six-day visit to Europe will also include stops in Serbia and Hungary.
 
CNN's Kristie Lu Stout joins me now, live from Hong Kong. So what is on Xi's agenda today in Paris? What's he looking for in Europe? 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Michael, Xi Jinping is on a charm offensive. He is looking to win over critics in Europe, which is, of course, one of China's biggest trading partners. 
 
And this is his first visit to Europe in five years, and it comes at a time of tension, tension over trade, as well as Russia's war in Ukraine, a war that China has yet to condemn.
 
The visit, it kicks off in Paris today, where Xi Jinping will meet with one of his toughest critics. He is set to meet with the E.C. president, Ursula von der Leyen, along with the French president, Emmanuel Macron. 
 
Now, von der Leyen, she's the one who called on the E.U. to de-risk its supplied chains away from China. Also to investigate the influx of cheaper subsidized Chinese E.V.'s into Europe. 
 
Macron, meanwhile, he is also seeking protection from Chinese overcapacity, from cheaper Chinese products like E.V.'s. And he has also tried to influence China to pressure Russia over its war in Ukraine.
 
Xi's visit, it comes at a time of an historical moment, marking 60 years of diplomatic ties between France and China this year. And in a statement that was released upon his arrival in France, this is what Xi Jinping said. Let's bring it up for you. 
 
He said, quote, "I hope our two countries will light up our way forward with the torch of history, open a brighter future of China- France relations, and make new contributions to world peace, stability, and development," unquote. 
 
But analysts say that this visit is about much more than that. This is part of China's strategy to exploit differences inside the E.U. And this is what CNN heard from an analyst, Noah Barkin. Let's bring up his statements. He's a visiting fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States. 
 
He says, "China is seen increasingly as a multi-faceted threat in many European capitals. But there are divisions within Europe of how fast and far to go in addressing concerns about China, both in the economic and security spheres," unquote. 
 
Now after France, Xi Jinping is set to visit Serbia and Hungary next. And Michael, these are two countries that are very pro-Russia and both big targets of Chinese investment. 
 
Back to you. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, and to that point, Xi Jinping is going to be in Serbia just in time for a sensitive anniversary. STOUT: That's right. According to the Serbian president's office, Xi Jinping will be in Serbia on May the 7th and maybe 8th. And May the 7th this year will be the 25th anniversary of the NATO bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. 
 
And analysts say that Xi's timing here, it looks highly intentional. It's designed to play up China's anti-NATO agenda. 
 
You know, China has amplified Russian talking points. It has parroted Russian talking points, including blaming the United States and blaming NATO for escalating the war in Ukraine. So that visit, of course, one will watch closely here on CNN -- Michael.
 
HOLMES: Absolutely. 
 
You'll be doing it for us. Thanks so much, Kristie. 
 
Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong there.
 
And when we come back on the program, it's some of the worst flooding Southern Brazil has ever seen. Dozens of people are dead, many more missing. We'll have that.
 
Also, authorities confirm the three bodies found in Mexico last week are those missing surfers. Two Australian brothers and their American friend. We'll have the latest on the investigation in a live report.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:16:49]
 
HOLMES: A tragic update on the search for three missing surfers in Mexico. 
 
The bodies found in Baja California Friday had been confirmed to be the two missing Australian brothers, Callum and Jake Robinson, and their friend, American Jack Carter Rhoad. 
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon joins me now.
 
And Stefano, this has been widely followed, I know, in the Australian media. A tragic ending for the family and friends of these young men.
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Yes, absolutely, Michael. The families arrived -- according to the attorney general of Baja California, they arrived on Sun -- on Saturday to Tijuana to proceed with the identification of the bodies.
 
These corpses were recovered, found, and recovered early on Friday morning in a cliff (ph) about 80 kilometers -- that's 50 miles -- South of the city center of Ensenada. 
 
And it's interesting to notice how the investigation has progressed quite swiftly, frankly, at least for Mexican standards. And the attorney general already has a motive in her mind. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARIA ELENA ANDRADE, STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL, BAJA CALIFORNIA, MEXICO (through translator): The aggression to these three people, a regrettable attack, had no relation to being surfers. They were killed because they were there at the wrong moment, when they wanted to steal the vehicle, a pickup.
 
We have not established that there was any knowledge that they were foreigners.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POZZEBON: Three people at the wrong moment at the -- in the right -- in the wrong place. Two vehicles. And the alleged criminals trying to steal the vehicles from the surfers. 
 
The surfers resisted that robbery, and what happened was a triple murder.
 
The attorney general confirmed to reporters that there are at least two people apprehended, and that she pledged to bring anyone involved into justice. 
 
But at the same time, I think, Michael, this is an occasion, also, to shed the spotlight, to bring to light to the fact that there is a security crisis going on in Northern Mexico. We rarely have the occasion to talk about it and especially on international media, because mostly, most of the time, foreign tourists are not targeted by this violence. 
 
But if you think about it, there are over 116,000 Mexicans who, to this day, are still reported missing. And in fact today -- early on Sunday, sorry -- the community of surfers in Ensenada presented -- prepared a rally. They presented a protest to protest this violence that is taking all the community on. 
 
So it's an occasion to shed the spotlight, while of course, it's a moment of tragedy and of mourning. 
 
The attorney general and the Mexican foreign minister all presented their condolences to the families. They arrived, as I was saying, on Saturday to Tijuana.
 
And now they will probably be making their way home to Western Australia and to the United States with two [SIC] bodies, unfortunately -- Michael.
 
HOLMES: Yes. Very, very sad. As you say, locals suffer the brunt of the crime. Stefano Pozzebon, thank you. 
 
Panama's electoral authority says Jose Raul Mulino is the unofficial winner of the presidential election based on preliminary results. With most of the votes counted, he's leading by about ten percentage points. 
 <br>[00:20:10] Mulino is a right-wing former public servant who moved to the top of the ticket after his running mate was disqualified. 
 
Mulino has controversially vowed to shut down the Darien Gap, the treacherous stretch of jungle that's become a main highway for migrants headed to the U.S. 
 
The Central American nation of nearly 4.5 million is struggling with many thorny issues, including corruption, high inflation, and a stagnating economy.
 
Officials in Kenya say the death toll from weeks of widespread flooding has now risen to at least 228 people. Seventy-two are still missing.
 
And the danger is far from over, with more heavy rain forecast for the country's Western and Northern regions. Parts of the country received more than half a month's worth of rain in just two days at the start of this month. 
 
More than 165,000 people have been forced to flee their homes.
 
And extreme weather also devastating Southern Brazil. Officials say 75 people are now dead due to a series of catastrophic floods, more than 100 others missing.
 
Residents and evacuees told CNN they've seen dead bodies floating in the waters, people likely not yet countered in the death toll. 
 
Officials say 780,000 people have been affected by the flooding. 
 
Still to come on the program, cultural institutions and landmarks turning to rubble in Gaza. We'll have a closer look at how the Israel- Hamas war is erasing centuries of history.
 
Also how students and faculty are reacting to the ongoing pro- Palestinian protests and arrests across American college campuses. We'll have more when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Ceasefire and hostage release talks involving Israel and Hamas have stalled, but they do not appear to have broken down as of now. 
 
Right now, U.S. CIA Director William Burns is in Doha. He was scheduled to go to Israel on Monday, but we're now told he's staying on in Qatar. 
 
An Egyptian source familiar with the negotiations tells CNN that Hamas negotiators are heading there, too. Hamas issuing a statement saying it is still keen to reach an agreement.
 
Meanwhile, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he will not accept Hamas's demand to withdraw the IDF from Gaza.
 
Now, as the war drags on and the death toll climbs, Palestinians in Gaza are not only losing their homes. Cultural institutions and landmarks, some of them centuries old, have also been destroyed, much of them irreplaceable. 
 <br>[00:25:07]
 
For example, this is what the church of Saint Porphyrius used to look like. But now one of the oldest churches in the world lays in ruins after it was hit by an Israeli airstrike back in October.
 
Jehad Abusalim is the executive director of the Jerusalem Fund, and he joins me now.
 
It's good to see you.
 
Now we've reported, of course, widely on the unbelievable level of destruction in Gaza, but wanted to talk to you about the specific losses to culture, heritage and so on. Something you've spoken about about a lot.
 
Just how much has been lost in that cultural and historical sense?
 
JEHAD ABUSALIM, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, JERUSALEM FUND: Thank you so much for having me.
 
Over the past six months, more than 200 heritage sites in the Gaza Strip have been either partially or completely bombed and destroyed by Israel. 
 
Among these are historic mosques, churches, schools, museums, ancient houses, theaters, libraries, and archives, including the al-Omari mosque, and the Pasha Palace and Museum in the heart of Gaza's old city. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, truly historical places.
 
Now you've said that this is a war, in your words, targeting the foundations of society and that it's no accident that Israel is trying to stop Palestinians from re-establishing life as they knew it. 
 
You really believe that, that it is a deliberate thing? 
 
ABUSALIM: Absolutely. It's an act of erasure that aims not just to obliterate physical structures, but to wipe out the collective memory and intellectual heritage that bind a people together. 
 
I mean, the strategy here is clear. Israel's strategy is to undermine the essence of Palestinian identity by making the very foundation of Palestinians' history and identity inaccessible.
 
HOLMES: Yes. Of course, now we've got to say this. You know, Israel says it strikes places where Hamas is or places it uses militarily. It's not targeting civilians or cultural heritage. What do you say to that? 
 
ABUSALIM: I, mean we -- we've all seen the footage of the great Omari mosque in the heart of Gaza's old city. This is perhaps the second oldest mosque in Palestine after Al Aqsa
 
 Mosque in Jerusalem. And the mosque, which is a treasure in every sense of the word, has been completely or most of it has been destroyed, while many of the surrounding buildings are standing intact. 
 
So there is no justification for -- for this kind of behavior, except that this is a deliberate targeting of an ancient historic site. And that means a lot to Palestinians and is at the very heart of what it means to be Palestinian in Gaza. 
 
HOLMES: You're from Gaza, I think. It's where you were born. You're a writer. You're a historian.
 
What's it been like for you personally, watching the destruction of museums, libraries? As you say, the fabric of society?
 
ABUSALIM: I mean, this loss transcends the mere destruction of buildings and individuals. This is an attack on memory.
 
I personally, I have, you know, memories that are cherished that are connected to these places. 
 
But it's also a direct attack on -- on the cultural and intellectual legacy of an entire city and an entire population. I mean, each of the minds (ph) we lost, each of the buildings that have been destroyed carried within them stories, ideas, dreams that were pillars of what it meant to be Palestinian in Gaza and what it meant to belong to that place. 
 
So it definitely feels personal for every Palestinian in Gaza. This is -- this is a personal and a collective loss. 
 
HOLMES: It can be argued, of course, that you know, buildings can be rebuilt. I mean, schools, universities, hospitals, and so on, so many of which have been destroyed.
 
But what aren't these, these centuries-old churches, the mosques, the historical, the documents, and manuscripts. How much of what's being destroyed cannot be rebuilt? And what is the impact of that kind of loss in a societal sense? 
 
ABUSALIM: Well, it is difficult at this point to assess whether these sites can be rebuilt or repaired. But, you know, we know for sure that the ancient Anthedon Harbour, which is Gaza's ancient harbor from the Hellenic area -- era, has been destroyed, has been bulldozed by Israeli tanks and bulldozers. 
 <br>[00:30:04]
 
I mean, some of these sites span centuries. They date back to 1,400 BCE, 800 BCE. And others are more than 400 years old. And they bear witness to the rich and diverse history of Palestine and the region. And they're not just special for Palestinians, but to all of humanity. 
 
So losing these sites and -- is a -- is a massive loss. And rebuilding them should be an endeavor, if it's possible to rebuild them, but of course, some of these sites are lost forever. 
 
HOLMES: We're -- we're out of time, but I wanted to ask you this real quick, because I think it's important. Because cultural custodians are being killed, as well. Those who kept the records, preserved these sites: academics, artists writers, scholars, and so on. 
 
You've said Gaza is an idea, and ideas don't die. But can Gaza be livable, functional again, or is it forever changed? 
 
ABUSALIM: I mean, throughout history, Gaza has faced war and conquest. And it always emerged stronger. And it's -- but I think, though, the most important question -- Gaza will be rebuilt, but the most important lesson and question that we should take from this moment is -- is to ask why humanity still endures such atrocities when we possess the means to prevent them. 
 
I mean, this is a question for policymakers in the West and for those who enable Israel's impunity. 
 
Gaza's resilience is undeniable. History testifies to that. But this cycle of destruction and bloodshed must end and should not be repeated. 
 
HOLMES: Jehad Abusalim with the Jerusalem Fund. Thank you so much. Such an important issue.
 
ABUSALIM: Thank you.
 
HOLMES: In the United States, universities held graduation ceremonies this weekend, amid more arrests of pro-Palestinian protesters. 
 
CNN's Camila Bernal spoke to some students and faculty members about their decision to protest and how it's impacting campuses across the country.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SABRINA ELLIS, UCLA STUDENT: It's really heavy emotionally. We're hearing the stun -- stun grenades. You're hearing shots fired from the rubber bullets. And you don't know what's happening. 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): These are the moments UCLA student Sabrina Ellis is still trying to process. 
 
ELLIS: I was just trying to go minute by minute. My -- my feet were hurting from standing up for so long. 
 
I do think that the message of the encampment and the protest was important enough that I felt the risk was worth it. 
 
BERNAL (voice-over): While Sabrina is not facing charges, the consequences for some protesters around the nation can be serious and include detainment, misdemeanors, school suspensions, and expulsions. 
 
And in the case of Michael Allen, a lecturer at Washington University in St. Louis, paid administrative leave. MICHAEL ALLEN, LECTURER, WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN ST. LOUIS: I was
 
 arrested within three minutes of the police decision to push into the encampment. 
 
BERNAL (voice-over): He says he was not part of the encampment but was there to protest. 
 
ALLEN: I'm a faculty member, concerned about my students getting arrested. 
 
BERNAL (voice-over): That was the moment of his arrest. He says he's not facing criminal charges, but the detainment and suspension mean he's not allowed to set foot on the university, pending an investigation.
 
ALLEN: Don't hurt him!
 
BERNAL (voice-over): He says he was told by the university that he cannot finish the semester, have contact with students, or attend commencement. 
 
ALLEN: What the university, in effect, is doing is actually impacting a lot more people than just those of us who were on campus on April 27
 
BERNAL (voice-over): The university said they don't comment on personnel matters, but said that of the 100 people arrested, 23 were Washington University students. 
 
It's reflective of what authorities have announced around the country. Of the more than 2,100 arrested during the clearing of encampments, not all have been students.
 
At the University of Southern California, school officials say, of the 93 arrested, 51 were students.
 
Officials have said they, too, have started a disciplinary process for campus members who have violated their policies and the law. Some California legislators calling for even harsher punishments. 
 
JAMES GALLAGHER (R), CALIFORNIA STATE ASSEMBLY: There does need to be accountability, yes. And I think some people need to be fired. 
 
They point to harassment, antisemitism, and unsafe campuses, and say that those convicted should be punished through the state budgeting process, losing funding for the university, or grants.
 
GALLAGHER: People doing this should have been arrested. They should be suspended, but there should also be other accountability for this action. 
 
BERNAL (voice-over): But some of the students that were in the encampment and part of the more than 200 detained at UCLA, say that while they won't reveal future plans, this is far from over.
 
Camila Bernal, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:35:03]
 
HOLMES: Just hours from now, Donald Trump will be back in a New York courtroom for the start of the fourth week of his historic criminal trial. 
 
The former U.S. president has pled not guilty to 34 counts of falsifying business records to cover up a hush money payment to adult film star Stormy Daniels before the 2016 election.
 
Daniels is a potential witness for the prosecution, but they've been tight-lipped over who they might call to the stand next. Other possibilities could be model Karen McDougal, who claimed she had an affair with Trump and was paid to keep quiet about it by "The National Enquirer." 
 
There's also Trump's former adviser, Kellyanne Conway, as former -- as well as his former attorney, Michael Cohen. 
 
A country on the front line of the climate crisis, Australia, being cooked on land, but also below the sea. Just ahead, Ivan Watson investigates what one scientist brands underwater wildfires.
 
And the Queen of Pop takes the stage in Brazil on her final tour stop, turning Rio's iconic beach into a massive dance floor. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Thousands of people gathered at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate Sunday in support of democracy. Huge crowds turning out to protest an attack on a German member of the European Parliament. 
 
Matthias Ecke was a member of Chancellor Olaf Scholz's ruling SPD Party; was hit and kicked as he put up posters in the Eastern city of Dresden.
 
The SPD blamed the rise of the far right in Germany. 
 
It's the latest in a string of similar incidents, with official figures showing the number of attacks on politicians in Parliament has doubled since 2019.
 
Australia is a country under siege, both on land and under the sea. Fires and floods destroying homes and habitats, while the Great Barrier Reef is being cooked by warming water. 
 
Senior CNN international correspondent Ivan Watson embarked on a journey across the country.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This was a once- in-a-career kind of assignment and a chance to go all the way to Australia to explore this spectacular country. 
 
And along the way, I actually did get to cuddle a koala. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): The small team at this wildlife center helps raise some of these orphaned animals by hand.
 
WATSON: Hi, there.
 
WATSON (voice-over): Including Pearl, who seems pretty fond of humans.
 
WATSON: This is a little bit like holding a child, but pretty fuzzy kid. And the other part about this is that the fur really is soft.
 
WATSON (voice-over): There are few things sweeter than cuddling a koala. My teammates couldn't wait for their turn.
 
WATSON: Oh, that's cute. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): But then we learned the real reason Pear is here.
 <br>[00:40:04] 
 
WATSON: So the real reason that Pearl was at this sanctuary was because she was burned as a young joey in the 2020 Black Summer fires. These were horrific forest fires across long stretches of Australia.
 
And on that particular island where I was, Kangaroo Island, half of the island was burned down. More than half of the koala population was killed. And this one koala, fortunately, survived.
 
What I saw in Australia was that this country, this continent, is very much on the frontlines of climate change, where scientists, residents are saying that the cycle of fires and floods are getting more unpredictable and more extreme.
 
On top of that, I got a good look, with my team, at the Great Barrier Reef, this sprawling marine habitat that's the size of Italy, where we saw the beginnings of a mass bleaching event that was later confirmed by the Australian government, where record high ocean temperatures are quite literally cooking coral and killing it. 
 
It's part of a planet-wide phenomenon that's been witnessed over the course of the last year. 
 
So all of these changes that are impacting Australia are not only devastating natural habitats, but they're also impacting cities and towns and even prompting some Australians to consider leaving some of these more vulnerable communities.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Ivan Watson reporting there. And you can watch more of his reporting on Australia's climate disasters on "THE WHOLE STORY" with Anderson Cooper. That's Saturday at 3 p.m. Eastern, 7 a.m. London time. 
 
Music icon Madonna turned up the star power with a spectacular concert in Brazil. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The Queen of Pop dazzling fans at a free show in Rio de Janeiro. It was the last stop on her Celebration world tour, performing legendary hits like "Vogue," "Express Yourself," and "Like a Prayer." 
 
An estimated 1.6 million fans braved the heat to catch the Material Girl's performance. They filled the area around Copacabana Beach for several blocks.
 
That would have been a good show. 
 
Thanks for spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes. You can follow me on Instagram and Threads, @HolmesCNN. 
 
Stay with us. I'll be back in 15 minutes with more news. WORLD SPORT next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:44]
 
(WORLD SPORT)