Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Blinken To Deliver Strong Warning On Russia Support As He Arrives In China For Key Meetings; Flash Floods Displace Thousands In Kenya; School Lunches Will Have Less Added Sugar, Sodium Under New Rule. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired April 26, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Happy Friday, Friyay. Before we head into this weekend, let`s fuel our 
 
 minds one more time with 10 minutes of news and a little bit of fun, too. 
 
We first head to China, where U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is meeting with Chinese officials to discuss a wide range of topics. One of 
 
 the main things on the agenda, Blinken is warning China, do not help Russia ramp up weapons production, as Russia continues to wage its war against 
 
 Ukraine, which is a U.S. ally. 
 
But that`s not all the two sides are talking about. Secretary Blinken is also discussing how China treats U.S. businesses operating in that country. 
 
 And China has its own grievances. It argues that America is trying to suppress the Asian superpower`s growth. China and America are kind of like 
 
 frenemies. They are the two largest economies in the world, each with massive militaries. But China is not a democracy like the U.S. It`s run by 
 
 an authoritarian leader, Xi Jinping. So the two sides` interests don`t always align.
 
Still, cooperation is vital to maintain global prosperity and peace. That`s a key point that Secretary Blinken made when he spoke to a group of NYU 
 
 students in Shanghai.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  This relationship between China and the United States is one of the most consequential, one of the most 
 
 complicated in the world. 
 
But where the balance really comes in, where we can make sure that we are talking to each other, hearing each other, understanding each other, really 
 
 comes through connections between students, business community, citizens across the board.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  And this meeting comes at a tricky time for the U.S. and China. America just authorized a foreign aid package that includes $8 billion to 
 
 combat China`s growing influence in Asia. President Biden also signing a potential TikTok ban into law. It requires the social media company based 
 
 out of China to find a new owner in the next few months or users in the U.S. will no longer be able to download it. 
 
Next, we head to Kenya, where more than 30 people have died after heavy rainfall led to a series of flash floods that swept almost half of the 
 
 country. In total, more than 100,000 people have been affected by the severe weather. CNN`s Larry Madowo shows us the devastating impact in 
 
 Nairobi, Kenya`s capital.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Where I`m standing used to be somebody`s house. All this area used to be people`s homes, all swept 
 
 away. What`s getting cleared back there, that debris that`s left over, that`s what used to be their homes.
 
In these informal settlements around Nairobi, the houses are made of wood, they`re made of iron sheets. They`re very easily swept away when there`s 
 
 flooding like what was experienced. 
 
It`s a cycle. If it`s not the flooding, it`s a fire, and then flooding and a fire. And it goes on and on and on. You see a lot of people trying to 
 
 collect whatever little is left of what their homes used to be, some iron sheets, maybe some valuables, trying to figure out how to rebuild their 
 
 lives after a devastating situation where every single thing they owned was swept away by these flash floods.
 
JECINTER, AGUNJA, FEMINIST ACTIVIST &amp; MATHARE RESIDENT:  Nothing has come from the government. We only help ourselves because nobody has come to the 
 
 rescue. You feel like you don`t come from this country, you are maybe inferior, because if it was somewhere else, maybe middle class or the 
 
 highest class, government could have responded asap.
 
MADOWO:  Residents in these areas, informal settlements, or slums as they`re better known, often complain about emergency services not getting 
 
 to them during disasters. But here`s the extra complication. It`s starting to rain one more time. The Kenyan Meteorological Department has warned of 
 
 heavy to very heavy rainfall still to be expected. And the fear here is that that may lead to a new wave of flooding. Larry Madowo, CNN, Nairobi.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right, next we take you to Dunsborough, Australia, where wildlife officials saved 130 pilot whales after a pod beached themselves. 
 
 Sadly, rescuers couldn`t save all of them. At least 28 whales died.
 
Rescuers rushed to hold the animals upright to keep their blow holes clear before getting them back in the water. Experts say the animals can only 
 
 stay on land for about six hours before their health diminishes. 
 
Ten-second trivia.
 
Which of these foods items is NOT included as part of the National School Lunch Program? 
 
Chocolate milk, bean burrito, potato chips, or cheese pizza? 
 
If you said potato chips, you are correct. This is a tricky one. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, potato chips do not contribute to 
 
 any of their approved meal patterns. 
 
Mmm, lunch time. What`s your favorite school lunch? I was definitely a pizza day guy, or grilled cheese day, or turkey day. There`s not much I 
 
 didn`t like. 
 
Anyway, the U.S. government wants to make school meals healthier. The Department of Agriculture just announced new rules limiting the amount of 
 
 sugar and sodium in breakfasts and lunch that are served to nearly 30 million students K-12. The changes will be implemented in phases over the 
 
 next few years. By the 2027-2028 school year, added sugars can`t make up more than 10% of the total weekly calories for breakfasts and lunches.
 
The same school year, sodium needs to be cut by 15% in lunches, 10% in breakfasts. It`s the first change to school meal standards in 14 years. 
 
Today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, has a tentaclizing twist. Nine-year- old Cal Clifford wanted a pet. A pet octopus. And he thought he got one. But he ended up with a whole lot more. CNN`s Jeanne Moos has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  You may not think of octopuses as lovable, but this is the face of a kid seeing his pet octopus for the first time. 
 
 Nine-year-old Cal Clifford cried with joy.
 
CAL CLIFFORD:  You didn`t have to do this.
 
MOOS:  When his parents gave him the tank. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We`re going to build an octopus tank. 
 
MOOS:  The octopus itself was delivered in a plastic bag to this Oklahoma family. They named it Terrence. 
 
CAL CLIFFORD:  Terrence loves to welcome us every time we visit her. High- 8.
 
MOOS:  As in high five, but with eight tentacles. Within weeks, Cal`s dad Cameron says -- 
 
CAMERON CLIFFORD, CAL`S FATHER:  We found out that he was a she.
 
MOOS:  And Terrence, now Terry, started acting weird, laying eggs. But no one imagined they`d been fertilized.
 
CAMERON CLIFFORD:  The uh-oh moment was definitely when the first one hatched.
 
MOOS:  Hatched right in dad`s hand as he examined an egg. Cal got emotional. Getting a first look at the hatchlings, suddenly one octopus had 
 
 become many.
 
CAMERON CLIFFORD:  Fifty. 
 
MOOS:  Fifty babies, and each had to be cared for in a separate container.
 
CAMERON CLIFFORD:  The babies will actually cannibalize each other.
 
MOOS:  The baby`s got names like Jay-sea and his boo, Sea-yonce. The family learned that octopuses make for expensive pets. Leaks in the tank system 
 
 required vacuuming carpets and relaying ruined floors. It was all documented on TikTok.
 
CAMERON CLIFFORD:  I wish my son`s favorite animal had been a hamster.
 
MOOS:  Almost half of the baby octopuses survived. But Terry has died buried in the yard. Usually the mom dies after laying her eggs. The babies 
 
 are destined for educational institutions.
 
As for Cal, he`s so into octopuses he even dressed up like one for Halloween. No wonder he was overwhelmed when I gave him his first tank. 
 
CAL CLIFFORD:  Thank you so much.
 
MOOS:  Thanks a lot, dad and mom. Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Safe to say that family will be pretty octopied for a while. If you`re looking for an octopus, you know who to call. 
 
Our shout out today goes to Detroit Innovation Academy in Detroit, Michigan. Thanks for spending part of your day with us. 
 
And Jim Hill Middle School in North Dakota. What`s up, Mr. Foltz? We see you, Mystics. Let`s cue that music. Rise up, everyone.
 
Remember, you have the power to be the boost that someone needs this weekend. You are more powerful than you know. 
 
I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END