Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel Says It Has Withdrawn From City Of Khan Younis; Source: Biden Demanded Policy Changes In Call With Netanyahu; Suspect Arrested For Alleged Arson At Sen. Bernie Sanders' Office; Solar Eclipse Less Than 24 Hours Away, 32 Million In Path Of Totality; FAA: Engine Cover On Southwest Airlines Boeing Plane Falls Off During Takeoff In Denver; Soon: Iowa Faces South Carolina In Women's NCAA Title Game. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired April 07, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:42]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST:  Hello, everyone, and thank you so much for joining me this Sunday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
And we begin with a major development in the war in Gaza. After months of intense fighting, Israel says it is withdrawing its ground forces from the southern city of Khan Younis. Israel described the area as a major Hamas stronghold and it put together its biggest ever military division for the operation there as the city became a key battleground in what is now a six-month war. 
 
We're also so learning that Israel's planned reopening of the Erez Border crossing in the north of Gaza is being delayed. It would have allowed more aid to flow into Gaza. 
 
Today's developments follow a call last week between President Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Sources tell CNN during that call, President Biden gave Netanyahu a list of things he wanted to see done to ease the human suffering in Gaza. And it all comes as Israel marks a grim milestone, it has now been exactly six months since Hamas attacked.
 
The Gaza ministry of health says more than 33,000 Palestinians have been killed in the war. We've got full coverage for you, Priscilla Alvarez in Washington. Nic Robertson in Jerusalem, and Ben Wedeman in Beirut. 
 
Hello to all of you, Priscilla, you first, what more we learning about this call that happened between Biden and Netanyahu.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Fredricka, this was a call that came at a critical moment. In fact, it was only put on the books after the deaths of those World Central Kitchen employees earlier in the week. And now sources are telling us a little more about what unfolded during that 30-minute call between the two leaders. President Biden had asked, are requested that there be changes in Israel's war against Hamas. 
 
For example, opening up a crossing in Northern Gaza, as well as a port for humanitarian aid and ramping up supplies. 
 
Now, a person familiar with the call said that the response by the Israeli prime minister sure. To all of that was that it was going to get done. But President Biden went even further saying that it needed to be announced by the evening, and that is in fact what we saw these really security cabinet approved those message of -- those measures are hours after the call. And up until this point, the White House has welcomed what they have seen on the ground, but they also note that it can't be the end of it. 
 
National security spokesperson John Kirby talks about all of this earlier today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS:  The announcements Israelis have made while welcome and important, can't be the end of it. We've got to see sustained changes in the way they're operating on the ground and the way they are allowing humanitarian assistance to get in unmolested.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ:  Now, the U.S. has steadfastly stood behind Israel as it wages its war against Hamas, but they did now go a step further by saying that there could be policy changes if they don't see changes by Israel, what the metrics are though, and what changes they would make still unclear, but very much a pivotal moment -- Fredricka. 
 
All right. Priscilla, thanks so much. 
 
Nic Robertson, to you in Jerusalem. So what is Israel saying about this now withdrawal from Khan Younis and how important or pivotal is it? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Well, they're saying they're bringing out the troops from the 98th division, which was a very big division in Khan Younis. They've been in Khan Younis since December. They're bringing them out for recuperation to prepare for whatever their next assignment might be. 
 
So the Israeli government is saying while they're pulling them out, the war is by no means done. And in fact, we were close to where they were pulled out. We saw dozens of tanks and armored fighting vehicles, scores of them in a field. The troops had already been bused away to take a break. 
 
But down at the border fence wire where we were and Palestinians inside of Khan Younis reporting still aerial strikes, their bombs, being dropped in that area, which we could see and we can see those explosions we can hear the fighter jets. We could see the detonation. So while the troops have been pulled out and it's a significant withdrawal which potentially, potentially can have an impact on the negotiations said are expected to continue. 
 <br>[14:05:03] Again, the very slow negotiations, by the way, they expected continue again involving the head of the CIA, the head of Mossad, the head of Egyptian intelligence, the Qatari prime minister who the Qataris, the Egyptians also talking with Hamas separately, could -- could potentially bring about some change towards agreement on ceasefire. But what's happened by no means goes to what Hamas has been talking about. You wouldn't expect it at this stage. 
 
But the Israeli defense force, making very, very clear they're keeping a substantial force in the north of Gaza, the 162nd division, the Nahal brigade as well. So there's a very big four, seven again, close the border in the north, we can hear detonations and gunfire going on at the Erez Crossing where the Israelis say they don't have the logistics in place yet for supplies to go through. 
 
I would just add one small sub detail to that. We've seen in the last few minutes on social media platform X, that COGAT the Israeli body that oversees aid trucks into Gaza. They say they've set a record today of 322 aid trucks going into Gaza. These would be by the southern crossings and they say 70 percent of those 228 contained food. This is not something -- these are not figures. We've had run down by and confirmed by the U.N., yet.
 
WHITFIELD:  Interesting. All right. Nic Robertson, thanks so much. 
 
Let's got to Ben Wedeman in Beirut, Israel, is also saying that it's preparing to move to attack posture from defense on the border with Lebanon. 
 
What do we think that means?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, it's rather confusing, Fredricka, because the English versions, version of this statement is rather different from the Arabic. In the English version, it starts talking about readiness for the transition, from defense to offense. In Arabic, the translation is preparing to move from defense to attack. 
 
Now when you go down further in the text, they're talking about both in English and in Arabic about putting the equipment and having the personnel in place should the need arise. But what we've seen certainly in recent days is that for instance, yesterday, Hezbollah managed to shoot down what's known as a Hermes 900 drone. That is a drone that -- it's an attack drone, but it has the capacity to collect and relay information, a very powerful, sophisticated drone that Hezbollah took down with the surface to air missile. 
 
Earlier we heard of before the weekend that for instance, the Israelis had canceled the all leaves for combat units, and it also called up reserves for air defense units. So certainly attention seems to be a building particularly in the aftermath of last Monday's Israeli attack on the run-in embassy. But we did hear from the leader of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah that the response will come from Iran. 
 
So there's tension all around of a possibly run in response to Israel and also of hostilities, increased hostilities between Hezbollah and Israel -- Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Ben Wedeman, Nic Robertson, and Priscilla Alvarez, thanks to all of you.
 
All right. Back in this country now, dangerous weather hitting Colorado right now, fierce wind gusts, some near 100 miles per hour caused widespread power outages overnight.
 
We've got CNN meteorologist Elisa Raffa with us tracking the system, and CNN's Camila Bernal, who is covering the impacts of these dangerous winds. 
 
So, Camila, let's go to you first.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Fred. So these hurricane winds along with the very dry conditions have resulted in a number of impacts across the plains. Were talking thousands without power, road closures, some evacuations, even to firefighters that were injured in the flames. This is impacting the western half of the southern and central plains. 
 
So in Oklahoma, we know that firefighters were battling flames in six different counties. We were told that late last night and early this morning evacuation orders were lifted in that area. But unfortunately, those two firefighters were injured and were taken to the hospital with burn injuries. We do not have an update on their condition, but they remain -- the rest of the firefighters, of course, remain working around the clock to try to contain the flames.
 
In Colorado this morning, about 300,000 people were left without power, some of it because of the high winds. Another part of that is because the energy the company decided to shut off the power to prevent any more damage. 
 <br>[14:10:02]
 
Take a listen to what Xcel Energy had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERT KENNEY, PRESIDENT OF XCEL ENERGY COLORADO:  We expect those wins to be potentially record-setting of up to 100 miles an hour. Last night, we started contacting those customers to give them a heads up. For customers that need immediate help, we're directing them to call 911.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL : And people are being told to remain indoors and to report any fires because if any of them start, whether officials saying it is going to be very difficult to contain, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Camila, thank you so much. Keep us posted. 
 
Let's go to Elisa now, Raffa -- Elisa Raffa in the CNN weather center.
 
Elisa, when will these winds improve?
 
ELISA RAFFA, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  The good news is, is they're dying down as we go through the day today, the alerts are being dropped because the winds are not as fears, but we are looking at about 300,000 customers in Colorado without power, 150,000 of those are from the actual winds from the overnight. They did some preemptive power outages, like Camila was saying ahead of the event to help cushion that blow a little bit. 
 
But here's a look at some of the wind gusts from yesterday, 96 miles per hour. White Ranch, Colorado, 91 miles per hour. In Buckeye, 88 miles per hour. And rocky Flats, even in parts of Oklahoma, 61 mile per hour wind.
 
So, very intense winds with this system. We've had high wind warnings in place since yesterday, but they're starting to get dropped as those wins relax a little bit and the rest of these alerts will expire later on in the day as the winds continue to lose though light enough. 
 
So you can see that we could still find gusts 30 to 40 miles per hour through the early parts of the afternoon today are across some of these Plain States and Colorado, but look at how things really calmed down as we go into the day today and then into tomorrow, the winds do really start to relax with that dry air in place. That's also been sparking those fires and some of these areas in the Texas Panhandle already a burn scars from earlier in the season. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Oh, my goodness. 
 
All right. That is a lot. Elisa Raffa and Camila Bernal, thanks so much. We'll check back with you.
 
All right. And now we also have this breaking news out of Burlington, Vermont, where a suspect has been arrested in connection to the alleged arson of Senator Bernie Sanders' office. 
 
CNN correspondent Polo Sandoval is covering this for us. 
 
Polo, what have you learned about the suspect? 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  So, Fred, he was arrested just today. The U.S. attorneys office in Burlington, who's going to be prosecuting this, not yet making clear a possible motive. They are however confident that they have arrested the man who they believe set fire to the entrance of Bernie Sanders office on Friday, who's been identified by the Department of Justice as Shant Soghomonian. He is also goes by the name Michael as well. 
 
He's originally from Los Angeles at 35-year-old who police say is actually captured on video on Friday, walking up the stairs and that building in Burlington up to the entrance of senator's office and then spray some sort of accelerant on the entrance way and then uses a handheld lighter to start the fire. There was staff inside. However fortunately, the sprinklers in the building were able to put out much of the blaze. Fortunately, no injuries to center himself was not there at the time. There are obviously multi-level investigations that are taking place right now as they tried to determine a motive here.
 
As for the suspect. If convicted, he faces up to five to 20 years in prison. Council for the suspect has not been identified according going to a release from the Department of Justice today -- Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Polo Sandoval, thank you so much for that update.
 
All right. Still to come, we're less than 24 hours away now from a historic total solar eclipse. And millions of Americans live in the path of totality. 
 
How some cities are celebrating the astronomical phenomenon, and severe storms might complicate the chances to actually see the eclipse depending on where you are, particularly in the southwest. A look at the forecast, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:18:36]
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Are you among the millions of people traveling to be with a 32 million Americans living along the path of tomorrow's total solar eclipse? There's a lot of excitement to witness the moment. The move -- the moon rather moves across the sun's face and totally blocks its light, something that will last just four minutes, but the entire process leading up to it. Well, the many phases well, that covers many hours and that's where some of the fun is. 
 
We have complete starting with meteorologist Elisa Raffa and space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher. 
 
And first up, Kristin, where it's windy right now in downtown Indianapolis. They're expecting somewhat 20,000 people at one of the largest free eclipse viewing areas in the state. So what's going on now? 
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, you know, Fred, Indianapolis has always been one of those key big cities, right within that path of totality. But it's really taken on renewed and even greater importance during this eclipse because of that bad weather that we're seeing likely hitting Texas, Arkansas. 
 
We've heard from so many Texans that are scrapping their plans at the last minute and coming to Indianapolis to watch the eclipse here. And when they get here, they're going to see signs like this all over downtown Indianapolis the city really going big with some of its eclipse signage. 
 <br>[14:20:00]
 
And here at the White River State Park, where we are right in downtown Indianapolis. They've set up Nap Town, USA. Nap Town because it's one of Indianapolis's nicknames back in the 1930s. Jazz musicians didn't like saying Indianapolis because it's a six syllable mouthful. So they shortened it to Annapolis. That shortened even more to Nap Town. And so, now, they've got lots of hammocks, chairs, and you can see
 
 folks out here relaxing and enjoying it today. I mean, just think you could watch the eclipse from a hammock. How nice is that?
 
But, you know, there's really nothing sleepy about this place tomorrow because they're expecting 20,000 people here roughly and then finally, you can see totality beginning at 3:06 p.m. and where we're going to be is over at the Indianapolis motor speedway. Fred, they are expecting 40,000 people there, all sitting in a big circle together to watch, you know, just take in this truly once in a generation experience, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Oh, my gosh, that sounds like a lot of fun. I love that whole hammock idea. Just make sure you got the right eyewear, right? 
 
That's cute. 
 
All right. Kristin, we'll be watching you tomorrow.
 
Elisa, all right, so if you are there in a hammock and Nap Town will it be sunny? Enough for you to see when the moons shadow covers the sun. I mean what about for all the folks who are along the path of totality, will they all have good luck? 
 
RAFFA:  Yeah. Indianapolis actually looks like one of the best viewing places. The severe threat though, is growing over parts of Texas. We've got now a level three on five enhanced risk of severe weather just near Dallas for very large hail, damaging winds and a couple of tornadoes, storms, crib blow up after the eclipse. But again, a lot of people along this path and clouds will of course come with those showers. 
 
So things start to get a little bit cloudy and rainy going into tonight, you can see the showers kind of stool in line that path of totality or at least just south as air through Monday with some of the clear whether up in the Ohio Valley.
 
So, here's the latest look at the clouds. You can see most of them over parts of Texas, some clearing along the Ohio Valley and then well have it looks like additional clearing over in New England. 
 
So for a place like Indianapolis, you do have some of those clearing skies that by that time you hit your total -- your totality at 3:00, you've got some of that sunshine, but there's all those clouds in Dallas. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Oh gosh. Okay. It's a bit of a roll of a dice depending on where you are.
 
Elisa Raffa, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Here to discuss is Karisa Zdanky. She's an astronomer from the Tellus Science Museum. 
 
Karisa, good to see you. How excited are you about this moment tomorrow? KARISA ZDANKY, ASTRONOMER, TELLUS SCIENCE MUSEUM:  Oh, I am very
 
 excited about tomorrow.
 
WHITFIELD:  What is an astronomer look forward to here? 
 
ZDANKY:  So a lot of scientists are actually looking forward to seeing the corona. So the outer layer of the sun's atmosphere because it's not something that we really get to see a lot. So were just trying to get as much information as we can during those few minutes of totality. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Oh, right. That's this is an exciting time. Its, it's a teaching learning moment even for those if you studying it for the sake of the science. But then for the regular folks out there who have gotten their glasses, they're told to be in place at a certain hour depending on geographically where you are it may not just be the four minutes of a moment that they're looking forward to. But what can you tell them to expect leading up to that moment? 
 
ZDANKY:  So before totality, it will be a partial eclipse. So during that time, you'll see sort of the sphere of the sun start to become a crescent. And then if you're in that path fully get bat that wiseness around it of the corona but if you are in a partial eclipse, you're not going to get that full darkness during totality. You may get some slight dimming. It may feel like its a cloudy day. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Wow, I even understand that in some people recall it from a few years ago that the temperature might drop about ten degrees when you're in the totality of that eclipse, correct? 
 
ZDANKY:  Yes. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Yeah. 
 
And so what do you tell people how to really take in enjoy the moment you know, folks have been thinking about this for de is now, perhaps even months, preparing for it. But is there a way to map out your day looking forward to this moment, I guess 3:00 Eastern Time in some places like Indianapolis is, we just mentioned that will be the moment of totality, but how do you instruct people or guide them on enjoying the day? The many phases leading up to it?
 
ZDANKY:  So for the whole day, depends if you're at home definitely step outside when you can just to get a look at how the eclipse is progressing over time. If you're at one of those big events that are happening all across the country, definitely take part in that, do whatever activities they've got going on and during the eclipse I know everyone's going to try and take their own pictures, things like that don't even worry about that.
 <br>[14:25:01]
 
There are people there to take photos, let them do that, and you just really enjoy the experience. 
 
WHITFIELD:  And get that later because again, this moment of totality that's going to last about four minutes, right but the phases leading up two, it takes place over hours of time. Do you have a favorite phase in all of this? 
 
ZDANKY:  Ooh, a favorite phase. I mean, not counting totality itself. I like when were getting really close to that, probably around 85 to 90 percent just because at that point the sun just looks like a crescent well, it, its just very interesting. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Oh, it's fascinating. Okay, we're all looking forward to it. This is going to be an amazing experience and, look, depending on where you are geographically. The map shows that right there, what you're likely to see it kind of those peak hours. But if you're among the lucky ones in that path of totality, wow, you're -- you're in for the quiet of a treat, unless there's, some stormy clouds but we're not going to rain on anybody's afraid. We're just going to look forward to what's happening tomorrow.
 
ZDANKY:  Just hope for the best is pretty much all we can do.
 
WHITFIELD:  Right. That's it. 
 
Thank you so much, Karisa Zdanky. Great to see you. 
 
ZDANKY:  Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD:  And of course, join CNN for special live coverage, "Eclipse Across America" starts live tomorrow at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time or stream it on Max. 
 
All right. Coming up, we're learning more about the pressure President Biden is putting on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to rapidly improve conditions for civilians in Gaza, even threatening Israel with serious consequences. What are they? I'll discuss with Congressmen Gerry Connolly, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:31:02]
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Today, we're learning new details about President Biden's call last week with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. A source now tells CNN that Biden warned Netanyahu that if conditions did not rapidly improve for civilians in Gaza, he would reconsider how the U.S. was backing Israel's conflict.
 
Joining us right now, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Democratic Congressman Gerry Connolly of Virginia.
 
Congressman Connolly, great to see you.
 
REP. GERRY CONNOLLY (D-VA):  Good to see you. 
 
WHITFIELD:  So you're Democratic colleague in the Senate, Senator Chris Van Hollen said today the U.S. should put conditions on offensive weapons for Israel. "The New York Times" reports that President Biden is sending $38 billion in aid under an Obama era agreement, including many of the weapons used in Gaza. 
 
In your view, what kind of conditions should be attached?
 
CONNOLLY:  Well, I think wed have to separate what's in the package, right? Like so there are F-15s. F-15s are not going to be used anytime soon by Israel. It's going to take about five years to deliver those, to construct them and deliver. So they're not really an issue immediately.
 
What is at issue is the offensive weapon. So more bombs that can be used to devastate Gaza are of immediate concern and ought to be. And I would hope that restrictions are put on any kind of offensive weapon that could be used in Gaza right now.
 
WHITFIELD:  What kinds of restrictions would be on the table 
 
CONNOLLY:  Well, indiscriminate bombing off the table. Indiscriminate targeting off the table. Precision targeting against specific and identify and identified and verified Hamas targets are on the table. 
 
But we cannot have the kind of indiscriminate bombing that occurred in the north that destroyed two-thirds of or damage two-thirds of all the housing and all of the structures in north Gaza. We cannot have the indiscriminate bombing that just killed seven aid workers from World Central Kitchen. We cannot have indiscriminate bombing that killed dozens of people in refugee camps, and in hospitals and other shelters in the south as well as central and north Gaza.
 
so there has to be a very strict on the standing that were not going to have any tolerance for the kind of civilian casualties that have occurred tragically so far.
 
WHITFIELD:  In his phone call, Biden demanded Netanyahu open up the Erez Crossing into Northern Gaza and the port of Ashdod in southern Israel for humanitarian aid, while also significantly ramping up the supplies, getting in through Kerem Shalom. But today, we learned Israel's plans to open the Erez Crossing has been delayed. 
 
So as you spell out some of those suggested conditions, do you feel like Israel can be trusted? With the kinds of conditions that would be imposed by the Biden administration or anyone, while also giving more military aid?
 
CONNOLLY:  You know, Secretary of State Blinken use the word measurable. So, it's not about trust, its got to be measurable. We've got to be able to observe and measure the progress in massive humanitarian aid that has to flow to Gaza. That has to be a condition on anything else we do and buttressing Israeli capability militarily. There is a humanitarian crisis, the likes of which the world has not seen since World War II, and that has to be addressed and addressed immediately. 
 
So, those are -- those gates, those crossings have to be opened up and we have to use everything at our command to get food, water, medicine, a fuel, and other essential ingredients into Gaza to save lives and stave off starvation. [14:35:11]
 
WHITFIELD:  The call between Biden than yahoo last week was triggered in part by the Israeli attack on a World Central Kitchen convoy, which killed seven aid workers. Today, the organization's founder called on the president, challenged President Biden, as well as Netanyahu to make a stand this is what Jose Andres said in a message directly to the president of the United States.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSE ANDRES, WORLD CENTRAL KITCHEN FOUNDER:  President Biden, you, you, you can and America will stand behind you, support the right of Israel to defend themselves on this massive attack. But at the same time, I would say that President Biden also can be defending and supporting the right of Palestinians, not to die, just trying to be getting a piece of bread. 
 
I think both truths can live in the same place. You can be a friend of Israel, and at the same time you can be telling your partner in the Middle East, you cannot be conducting war in such a way. You cannot be destroying every building, every hospital, every school, every university. 
 
You cannot be destroying just the future for decades of more than 2 million Palestinians, and in the process leaving them hungry, leaving them without water or what is even worst -- just shooting them in the middle of the street in the process of trying to have access to food. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD:  Do you agree with Jose Andres there?
 
CONNOLLY:  By and large, I do. There has to be accountability on the part of the Israeli Defense Forces. It was tragic to have seven aid workers in three vehicles that were marked as aid vehicles targeted and killed by the IVF. 
 
But this is not the first or only time the IDF has been trigger happy and careless. You know, they killed three Israeli hostages who were speaking Hebrew and waving white flags. They've killed people seeking shelter in churches and mosques and refugee camps and hospitals. This is unacceptable behavior and there has to be accountability.
 
And Jose Andres made another point, Palestinians are entitled to their own homeland. The official policy of the United States government is that we favor a two-state solution. The problem is the Israeli government opposes a two-state solution. We do not share the same long-term goals. That has to be rectified.
 
And so I applaud President Biden for coming down hard on Bibi Netanyahu, and insisting that the United States is prepared to condition future aid, if certain conditions are not met in terms of humanitarian relief, in terms of civilian casualties, and in terms ultimately of the long-range solution, which has to be an independent state for the Palestinian people. WHITFIELD:  Do you think it's possible to -- and using your words --
 
 to rectify this issue, if the U.S. is on board with a two-state solution however, Israel, under the current administration does not. If there is not that that goal, that is shared how in the world can there be any rectifying of these issues? 
 
CONNOLLY:  Israel is an independent Democratic country that has to be respected. But the United States is the primary security provider for the state of Israel and always has been. We have a ten-year $3.8 billion a year military arrangement now. And we are pouring billions of dollars in supplemental military assistance to help Israel with its own military capability and defend itself. 
 
We have a right to say to that partner that we have concerns and those concerns not only need to be respected, but frankly they need to be given very serious consideration by the Netanyahu government. So far, we've gotten the back of a hand from Netanyahu. That that is an unacceptable -- a proposition is an unacceptable basis for a relationship. 
 
And Israel has to understand, the current Israeli government has to understand. It is putting the U.S. relationship in serious peril if it continues to ignore the grave concerns were raised about half the Palestinian population.
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. We'll leave it there for now. Congressmen Gerry Connolly, thanks for being with us today. 
 
CONNOLLY:  My pleasure. 
 
WHITFIELD:  We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:44:34]
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. This breaking news now. We're learning an engine cover on a Boeing plane operated by Southwest Airlines fell off during takeoff to Houston last night. The plane returned safely to Denver International Airport. 
 
CNN aviation correspondent Pete Muntean joining us now on the phone. 
 
Pete, what are you learning? 
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT (via telephone):  Well, this is not a 737 Max and that's the big headline out of this. We've heard so much about the issues on the 737 Max 9, like the Alaska Airlines door plug incident back on January 5th. 
 <br>[14:45:05]
 
This was an older 737-800 built in 2015 by Boeing. This plane apparently had issues almost immediately after takeoff at the Southwest flight was going from Denver International to Houston Hobby. Took off at about 7:49 Mountain Daylight Time. So that's about 9:49 on the East Coast. 
 
I want you to listen now to some of the air traffic control audio now that we have from liveatc.net in which the crew very commonly that had a very nice job here a told air traffic controllers in total, air traffic controllers in Denver, that it sounded like something hit the wing according to passengers and according to flight attendants. 
 
So the crew declared an emergency, came back around and they were flying out to the west over the city of Denver, and then over centennial airport. It looks like according to the data here from FlightAware. And then over the ten of Strasberg only got through about 10,000 feet, which is sort of the norm when things are a bit abnormal onboard, and then landed back to the north. 
 
So according to southwest and we have the state statement, just in from them. Flight 3695 returned safely to Denver government national airport around 8:15 local time. Sunday, the 7th, after the crew reported an engine cowling fell off during takeoff and struck the wing flap. A cowling is part of the engine cover. You've seen them on the side of the wing? Because they are under the wings of a 737. That is essentially what covers the engine from the exposed air that's rushing by it. 
 
And so, the photos surfacing online show that sort of mangled and twisted around the part of the wing there, but it seems like the crew very commonly got this airplane on the ground. Nobody injured southwest brought another plane in and ultimately got those folks on their way to Houston Hobby.
 
WHITFIELD:  Wow, big sigh of relief. I'm sure for everybody on board. 
 
All right. Pete Muntean, thank you so much. 
 
All right. And now we are just minutes away from the big finish to the NCAA women's basketball tournament. And really just minutes away from the start of the big game. The best team in women's college basketball, the undefeated South Carolina Gamecocks will face off against the top individual college score of all time in Caitlin Clark, and, of course, her team, the Iowa Hawkeyes. The women's tournament has been a thrilling ride with broken records and basketball and in television viewing. 
 
CNN's Brynn Gingras joins us now from Cleveland with more on how the teams are preparing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, Fred, both teams warming up here behind me before the tip offered this national championship game. So much writing for both of these teams. For South Carolina, they're trying to have a perfect season with the national championship going undefeated if they win up tonight, and for Iowa led by Caitlin Clark, of course, this would be the first national no championship that they would bring home to Iowa. 
 
Now listen, Iowa came off of that such nail-biting game against UConn right here on this court. It's possible they're going to be a little tired as they face the Gamecocks led by Dawn Staley. Of course, they have some spreadable depths to their bench. They got some taller players, which Iowa doesn't have. So it's going to be such an exciting game to watch.
 
And remember that last game on Friday night, those broke audience records as you just mentioned. But listen the anticipation with even building for the practices both these teams held to practice on Saturday as you practice in front of us, sold out arena here. 
 
So this is just an incredibly exciting again. We're happy to be here. And, of course, we will see soon who is the national championships were one of the most exciting women's basketball season yet -- Fred.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Oh, I love it. Brynn Gingras in a sold-out crowd to watch them practice, pretty amazing. All right. Thank you so much, Brynn.
 
All right. So as today's women's championship game is now just minutes away from tip off, another star player is pivoting to a different arena. LSU forward Angel Reese made a surprise announcement this week that she is taking her talents to the WNBA. She shared the news on Instagram and in a detailed spread for "Vogue", these are the pictures that you're seeing him in "Vogue" spread, the WNBA draft is just over a week away. April 15, Reese is projected in mock drafts to be a top 10 pick. 
 
She spoke about her decision to play professionally with my next guest, Leah Faye Cooper, "Vogue's" digital style director. 
 
Lia, great to see you. Oh my gosh, how exciting that you got a chance to talk with Angel Reese. She's phenomenal. So why "Vogue"? She said that she didn't want anything basic. 
 <br>[14:50:01]
 
Why does she decide to break the news to you guys? I mean, nothing basic about "Vogue", but you know what I mean? 
 
Did she give me a fuller explanation as to why she decided to share it with you? 
 
LEAH FAYE COOPER, DIGITAL STYLE DIRECTOR, VOGUE:  Yeah. I mean, as you said, she did not want to be basic. She does everything big. She has a big personality. She loves beauty, she loves fashion. But she was also really inspired by Serena Williams, who broke news of her retirement. And this September 2022 issue evoke. So that was another influence 
 
WHITFIELD:  Yeah. I mean, she idolizes, Serena, who doesn't? You know, and I mean, you mentioned it I mean, Angel Reese has style. You know, on the court and off the court. 
 
And, you know, I'm quoting her now in your article where she says I've done everything I wanted to in college. I've won a national championship. Ive gotten southeastern conference player of the year. I've been an all-American. My ultimate goal is to be a pro and to be one of the greatest basketball players to play ever. 
 
I feel like I am ready. I mean, I love the confidence there. What's your view on handling fame and pressure because she this has been a pretty tough last year and she's had a lot of incoming in different ways. How is she handled at all? 
 
COOPER:  You know, I think she's handled it well. I mean, she has a national championship and she's projected to go in the top ten in the WNBA draft. So I mean, I think that that speaks to how well she's hailed the pressure of being in the spotlight as a college athlete. I think also the world we got to know now her last year during the during the NCAA tournament, but she was a great high school player, you know? Like she was there was a lot of attention on her when she was a teenager, you know, like growing up in Baltimore. 
 
So I think that it's -- it wasn't necessarily that new to her obviously, on a much larger scale hill, but I think that she's -- she's done a good job. She's very close to her family. She's very close to her friends that she grew up with and I'm sure that that is helpful in quieting some of that noise and blob that's always around her. 
 
And so, yeah, I think she's done a good job. 
 
WHITFIELD:  And there was well use the word noise. There wasn't a lot of noise, especially after the whole hand gesture thing between, you know, she and Caitlin Clark last year during the NCAA. She talk much about, you know, how she handle that are or what was challenging about it because early this week, ESPN, Stephen A. Smith, you know, was on "KING CHARLES" here on this network and he says, he really could kind of empathize and sympathize with some of her experience in the last year. 
 
Take a listen to what he had to say and then I'd love to get your point of view.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHEN A. SMITH, ESPN ANCHOR &amp; RADIO ANALYST:  Understand she's been through a lot since she won a national championship last year. She pointed out that her life has been miserable. I really felt bad for her and I love the fact that a teammates came up and spoke on how behalf again, she invited some of the scrutiny, no doubt, but she didn't invite it to the degree that she received it. 
 
And remember, this is a young lady, he or she's not a seasoned veteran experiences in college, you went to national championship, you're not anticipating that this level of vitriol is going to come and get direction. Nevertheless, it did.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD:  What do you think? I mean, that's his point of view. Did she kind of expound on any of that that last year what its how its shaped her molded her how she has endured?
 
COOPER:  Yeah. You know, we mostly spoke about her entering the draft and how excited she is to go to the WNBA. But I actually also interviewed Angela last year for "Teen Vogue" and we did talk a bit about the scrutiny. 
 
And my thought is that the two things can be true at once. You can play with lot of bravado and trash talk and you can also be upset when you lose and you can also be hurt when you have adults and people you don't even know saying awful, awful things about you all over the internet. So I agree with him.
 
WHITFIELD:  Okay. Hey, well, it's a really fun article and great job. Your part for interviewing her and putting it together the way you did. I love it. They you know, people, her fans affectionately named her the Bayou Barbie, you know? 
 
And yeah, and she said she likes to call herself a girly girl and a killer on the court. And maybe just like the person she idolizes, Serena Williams, she'll make her way on the cover of "Vogue", too. You let us know.
 
COOPER:  We will see. I absolutely loved that nickname and I love the hair, the lashes, make-up I think it's fantastic. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Yeah. She's working it. I love it, too. 
 
All right. Leah Faye Cooper of "Vogue", thank you so much. 
 
COOPER:  Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD:  We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD:  Hello, again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Sunday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
All right. New this hour, U.S. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer says the U.S. is ready to swiftly respond to any potential Iranian attack. CNN has learned the U.S. is on high alert and actively preparing for a significant Iranian attack that could come as soon as this week, targeting Israeli or American assets in the region.