Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel Set To Reopen Erez Crossing To Allow Crucial Aid Into Gaza; United States On High Alert For "Significant" Attack By Iran In Middle East; Trump Headlining High-Dollar Campaign Fundraiser Tonight In Florida; Just Two Days Until Solar Eclipse: 32 Million In Path Of Totality; U.S. Oil Prices Top $86 Per Barrel For First Time Since October; March Madness Coming To A Close With Final Games. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired April 06, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: And to celebrate her inspirational legacy, 90 female photographers are collaborating on a project called, The Nature of Hope: 90 Prints in Honor of jane Goodall. With 60 percent of all the proceeds going to her institute, the Jane Goodall Institute.
 
And you can watch my full conversation with Jane, along with all those interviews @amanpour.com. And don't forget, all of our shows are available as podcasts at cnn.com/podcast and on all other major platforms.
 
I'm Christiane Amanpour in London. Thank you for watching, and see you again next week.
 <br>[12:00:40]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Saturday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
All right, right now, the U.S. is on high alert and actively preparing for a significant potential attack by Iran on U.S. and Israeli targets in the Middle East as soon as next week. That's according to a senior Biden administration official.
 
Iran is blaming Israel for an airstrike in Syria this week that killed at least seven Iranian officials, including two top military commanders. We're also following an important development in the humanitarian aid crisis in Gaza. Israel is preparing to reopen the Erez crossing in northern Gaza, at least, temporarily to bring in aid.
 
That move follows a meeting between President Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu this week.
 
The backdrop to all of this, tomorrow marks six months since the Hamas attack on Israel sparked -- which sparked the war in Gaza.
 
Priscilla Alvarez is in Washington for us, and Nic Robertson in Jerusalem.
 
Priscilla, you first. How is the U.S. preparing for this potential attack that we're being warned about?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, the U.S. and the Israeli government is working around the clock to try to get in position ahead of any potential attack by Iran, but they both see it as inevitable.
 
Now, they don't know how it would be carried out or when, but they're preparing for all possible scenarios of an attack potentially, in Israel.
 
Now, again, this was a major point of discussion between the President Joe Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in their phone call this week. And of course, it stems from that Israeli airstrike that you were just mentioning that hit an embassy in Damascus.
 
Now, the IDF says that intelligence shows that, that was not indeed a consulate. But it was an escalation all the same. And that is really the fear here. Is that this would continue to escalate and pool in other countries into a regional conflict, which is something that the White House has been trying to avoid.
 
Now, the United States informed Iran that it was not involved in this Israeli airstrike. Nor did it know of it in advance. But the big concern here is that there would be an attack by Iran, or on Israel by Iran, a direct strike, which again, could incite a regional conflict, which the Biden White House has repeatedly tried to avoid.
 
But in the moment, what we know is that the U.S. and the Israeli government are tracking this very closely and monitoring all of these developments and trying to get in position should there be an attack by Iran.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thanks so much, Priscilla.
 
All right. Let's turn now to Nic Robertson in Jerusalem. Nic, the Erez crossing into Gaza is expected to open tomorrow to bring in much needed aid, how much of an impact might that make?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: It's a very needed impact. It's not clear how much of an impact it will have, because it's not clear yet how many trucks will be allowed to go in, how regularly they'll be allowed to go in and what they'll be able to reach when they do get in there.
 
So, those are all the questions. What's being watched, of course, very, very carefully, is what the Israeli government does to make good on its promise to -- public promise and the comments that president -- under the pressure of President Biden, how well they make good on that promise?
 
And the border crossing and we were there today is a shell of what it once was. It was a place that Hamas attacked on October the 7th, it shut up the passenger terminal because predominantly, this was for foot passengers not for heavy cargo traffic that typically crosses through the Rafah crossing in the South and the Kerem Shalom crossing in the south into Gaza. So, this crossing itself is not one that's constructed for big heavy flows of aid to go through, but of course, can be used for that. What we know about the roads on the other side of the border inside of Gaza is that some of them are very heavily damaged, that they've been hit by missiles and bombs, the tarmac blown out on the roof.
 
But I think what struck us, our team was we were right along the border there, very close here as crossing today is the fact that you can still hear heavy machine gunfire and the sound of heavy explosions.
 <br>[12:05:06]
 
Now, of course other aid convoys have been able to get through, through into areas within Gaza, and deliver aid despite the fact that war is going on. But it's clear in and around the Erez crossing itself, in a way that we haven't heard so close to other crossings, there is still some persistent gunfire. So, that is going to be another difficulty for the aid delivery to be able to get through.
 
And at the moment, we don't have any details from Israeli officials about how many trucks they are planning to let through, what's going to be on the trucks, where the trucks have come from, where the trucks are going to be inspected? Because, of course, that's something Israel will do before aid is allowed in.
 
But the need is massive. Of course, the U.N. says people in the North of Gaza are the most vulnerable for food at the moment. Many of them are starving.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, yes. We know indeed, that aid cannot get there soon enough. We've heard it from all sides.
 
Nic Robertson, Priscilla Alvarez, thanks to both of you. Appreciate it.
 
All right. Let's zero-in again, back to the possible threats the U.S. or possibly Israel, by Iran. Biden administration officials are warning that it is possible. So, Bob Baer is with us now.
 
Bob, with this warning, coming from by the administration officials that it is possible. How does the US or even Israel brace itself?
 
ROBERT BAER, CNN INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ANALYST: Well, Fred, what they'd like to know is what is the planning? Where is Iran going to hit? Is it going to hit through proxies or use its own forces?
 
Remember, when a dispute with Saudi Arabia had to hit the oil facilities in Abqaiq with a drone. It sounds to me, I would guess, that Iran is going to hit from Lebanon. It's got a bases there all along the border using Hezbollah proxies.
 
They have got missiles in caves. They can be pulled out fired. They can swarm Israeli air defenses. They can hit Haifa, they can hit Tel Aviv. And also, I would suspect that Iran is going to hit Israel rather than the United States, simply because there is a possibility to divide Washington and Tel Aviv. That relations are terrible at this point.
 
And if it looks like Israel is starting World War III in the Middle East, Iran may calculate that it can separate the United States from Israel.
 
I don't think it will, but this is the kind of planning the Tehran is going through right now.
 
WHITFIELD: Do you feel like it's possible that this would be immediate?
 
BAER: I think, you know, the intelligence that CNN has picked up that it's going to be next week, it's probably a good idea. The CIA, national security agency can see preparations for strikes on the ground, either overhead or chatter. And if they say it's going to come next week, there is a good chance that will.
 
WHITFIELD: And do you feel like this is in direct response to what happened earlier in the week? Or do you believe it instead coincides with more of a six-month marking of when this conflict began, October 7th?
 
BAER: Fred, I think it's -- what we have to look at is the war in Gaza. It's gone terrible for Israel. They haven't been able to, to get to the command of Hamas, a lot of civilian casualties. Fred, so that means there's a huge amount of pressure on Tehran, from the population from Muslims around the world.
 
And they feel if they want to have a voice in the future of the Middle East, they are going to have to retaliate against Israel. And the sooner they do it, in their minds, the more effective it will be.
 
WHITFIELD: The U.S. and Iran doesn't have diplomatic relations. Do you believe there would be a third-party country that would have to be involved here? Or do you see that this is an instance in which the U.S. has to have some sort of outreach to Iran? 
 
BAER: Well, we would do this probably to the Swiss Embassy, frantically sending messages to Tehran through the Swiss saying, hey, let's not start a regional war, you will pay for it. Don't drag us in. You know, just don't do it. We're doing our best to control things in Gaza. Don't interrupt this now.
 
Whether the -- whether the Iranians will listen or not, I can't tell you. But I guarantee you, Washington is sending a lot of back-channel messages to Tehran.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Former CIA officer Bob Baer. Thanks so much.
 
All right. Still to come, former President Donald Trump is headlining a high-dollar fundraiser tonight, while the Biden campaign is announcing its own major cash haul and ramping up spending in key battleground states.
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
The very latest on the presidential race after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Former President Donald Trump is headlining a big dollar fundraiser tonight as he works to build up his campaign war chest. A source familiar with the details says the event in Palm Beach, Florida has already raised $43 million in contributions.
 
CNN is Fredreka Schouten is here with more on this. Fredreka, great to see you. So, all right, so, what more do we know about tonight's event?
 
FREDREKA SCHOUTEN, CNN NATIONAL POLITICAL WRITER: Well, it is at the private home of a supporter of Donald Trump's in Palm Beach, Florida. It's a hedge fund billionaire John Paulson. About 100 people are expected to attend. And they are really paying a big price to be there. The starting admission, if you will, is $250,000. But folks who are listed as chairman of the event who give the top amount, are each giving 824,600 per person.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow.
 
SCHOUTEN: Now -- Yes. They can raise those big numbers, in part, because it is a joint fundraiser with a Republican National Committee and a bunch of state party committees. And so, you ask one billionaire to write a big check. And then, that money is distributed among dozens of committees working through.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Interesting.
 
SCHOUTEN: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. So, then, tonight's fundraiser also comes after President Biden's campaign announced a huge fundraising haul for the month of March. What more is the Biden campaign saying about where they are in their war chest?
 
SCHOUTEN: Well, they raised $90 million in March, was -- it's a huge number. And they have a war chest of about $192 million cash on hand. That is about 100 million more than Team Trump has on hand.
 
So, they are celebrating. I mean, frankly, fundraising has been one of the bright spots for the Biden campaign. They raised more than $26 million at a fundraiser that included former presidents Clinton and Obama, earlier -- well, late last month.
 
And, you know, he is been dealing with sort of really low approval ratings, but he is able to make the case, his team argues that he succeeded in his first term and should be reelected. They are talking about opening 100 offices in battleground states. And they have just launched a $30 million ad by targeting black, Latino, and Asian voters and folks who supported Nikki Haley in the primary, trying to persuade them to come to their side. Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. There is a lot there. All right. Fredreka Schouten, great to see you. Thanks so much.
 
All right. For more now, let's bring in political reporter for Semafor, Kadia Goba. And also, CNN political analyst and White House reporter for the Associated Press, Seung Min Kim.
 
Good to see you both. All right. So, Kadia, you first. I mean, when you look at the cash on hand for these campaigns, you know, Biden has a sizable lead there, you just heard Fredreka, they are talking about almost $100 million more than Trump.
 
So, it's a very interesting contrast, because as Fredreka just underscored, Biden has very -- or has low approval rating numbers, but then, in contrast, has brought in a whole lot of money.
 
So, help us understand how the Biden campaign is seeing this?
 
KADIA GOBA, POLITICS REPORTER, SEMAFOR: Well, like she pointed out, I think they are very happy about it. Fundraising has been a bright spot for the Biden administration. And I think they have been very disciplined about it. Raising 90 million, basically, compared to Trump's 93 million on hand, is a considerable haul.
 
I think you'll see both of them, both campaigns start to ramp up. This is what the Trump campaign has been touting for the last couple of days ahead of this fundraiser that he is going to have, really targeting on that $25 million that Biden raise, saying that he is going to telling donors, he is going to double that.
 
I think we'll -- this will be the season or the era of campaign galas, and I think you'll see both campaigns start to ramp up here.
 
WHITFIELD: And Seung Min, I mean, what's all this money for? I mean, why does it make a gigantic difference? Because we saw, you know, Trump, win, in 2016, will spending hundreds of millions of dollars less than Hillary Clinton. So, why so much money needed now to make a difference? Or do you?
 
SEUNG MIN KIM, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: Right, right. I mean, Democrats and Republicans have told me that obviously, the normal political rules can often go out the window when it comes to Donald Trump.
 
But if you talk to Biden campaign officials, they point out that, that money allows them to make that contrast with Donald Trump earlier and faster in these key battleground states.
 
They know -- they see the -- they see the president's approval ratings, they see the head-to-head polls like the rest of us, but they feel that once they really drill it into the heads of voters, what Biden would do in a second term in office, and what Donald Trump would do in a second term in office, that they will have -- they will win the argument there at the end of the day.
 
And they need that money to make that argument, whether it's on the T.V. airwaves, like the $30 million ad campaign, that the campaign is in the middle of right now, or opening these battleground offices. So, you have volunteers and workers go out, talk to voters, you know, be able to hand out yarn signs, you know, talk to people about the difference between Joe Biden and Donald Trump. They feel like that's -- those are the metrics.
 
So, those are the statistics that will matter at the end of the day.
 
WHITFIELD: So, Kadia, how do you see that the Biden campaign will take advantage, you know, of this disparity in their favor in terms of numbers? Because the president has the bully pulpit, perhaps, there is less of a need for the kind of campaign ads that the former president might need. But is that how we're going to see some of this money distributed?
 
GOBA: I think, yes. I think, there is a clear difference about like, the campaign is about to announce battleground officials, who is going to take that on.
 
The Trump campaign hasn't talked about that yet. I'll also point out that the Trump campaign hasn't addressed how they are going to target black and Latino voters, which they happen to be gaining on. But also, what is the strategy around keeping those people or targeting that group to make sure that they are coming out for Trump in November?
 
I think we need to see some of that, and I think they understand they are a little behind that.
 
WHITFIELD: Seung Min, let's talk about this No Labels Party, you know, ending its effort to field a third-party ticket. I mean, saying it was unable to find a candidate who had, you know, a real credible path to win. So, what does this mean for the race?
 
KIM: Well, it means that a lot of the concerns that Democrats had about a potential third candidate, syphoning votes away from Joe Biden is lessened a little bit. Like you mentioned, No Labels was very well financed. They had recruited and courted potential candidates for months. You are talking about centrist West Virginia Democratic Senator Joe Manchin, Chris Christie, the former New Jersey governor who ran on the Republican nomination over and ran for the Republican nomination earlier in this primary cycle. And everyone basically declined their overtures. And I think that signals to a lot of this -- as some of the sense among people who could have potentially run that, you know, having that X factor, having that third candidate could really throw the race in favor of Donald Trump.
 
Now, Democrats are still watching over looking over their shoulders at Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., certainly, who is starting to get on the ballot in some states, and they have a robust operation to really tear him down. The Democratic National Committee has brought on operatives to do so.
 
And I think that does point to the potent threat that democratic -- Democrats recognize that a third legitimate candidate in this race can pose to Joe Biden.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, and Kadia, even before the No Labels, you know, announcement, democratic aligned groups had already been focusing, I guess, more -- a little bit more strongly on Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. So, how might this make a difference?
 
GOBA: Yes, I think it's important to point out that they are -- they see a third-party candidate as a threat. And RFK is no different. You saw some of the Democratic aligned associations, you know, picketing his announcement for vice president, you also saw those mobile trucks circling some of his speeches and rallies. They are taking this very seriously, especially at a time when, you know, there's some criticism around Joe Biden, whether you know, how he's dealing with events in the Middle East, or people who have problems with how old he is. I think they are taking it very seriously and they are probably right to do so.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We'll leave it there for now. Kadia Goba, Seung Min Kim, great to see both ladies. Thank you.
 
All right. Still to come, the countdown is on for the epic total solar eclipse that will cross the skies of North America on Monday. A Look at how some across the path of totality are preparing and what the weather just might be like. Next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:28:28]
 
WHITFIELD: This like a movie or something -- a movie opening.
 
A historic countdown is underway. It's just two days until this year's most anticipated celestial event. A rare total solar eclipse. 32 million people live along the route the moon's shadow will take across the country and millions more are pouring into those areas, hoping to get an amazing view.
 
And we find CNN's Miguel Marquez in Cleveland, which is right in the center of the path of totality.
 
Miguel, oh there you are. Arm stretched out wide, ready for it to happen. So, how ready are people there? And you've got your glasses too.
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: I hear music.
 
MARQUEZ: They are beyond ready. It is absolutely totally gorgeous here. They are totally ready for it. And it's totally punny as well. We're at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, we have our media passes on, like, backstage passes for solar fest.
 
I got more glasses and I can shake a stick at. Cleveland's blackout to remember the Hall of Fame glasses.
 
Remember kids, don't stare at the sun with your eyes. You got to use the glasses. But check this out. This is the -- of course, if it's Cleveland, we're in the Hall of Fame. They even have a solar eclipse path of totality U.S. tour t-shirt that they have rocked up here, with all of the locations that the sun will path through Google.
 
But there's more. Wait, they are going to be open from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. for the next few days. That's the longest that they have ever been open in the history of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
 <br>[12:30:04]
 
They have everything open. They have a -- the house band we'll start up here in a little bit -- in a little bit.  The mechanics I have requested as I heard you say in the intro, Total Eclipse of the Heart --
 
WHITFIELD: Of course.
 
MARQUEZ: -- and Moonshadow. We will see if they play it. But it is just packed here. The Science Center right next to this will have about 30,000 people that they are expecting. NASA has a research facility here. They will -- NASA will be anchoring their Eclipse coverage from there. It is going to be absolutely massive, totally massive. Fredricka?
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, totally, totally that. Well, I love the location. I mean, who doesn't want to be at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame? And then to be there for this, you know, amazing event and people are already, you know, gearing up. So among the people that you've spoken to are most of them Clevelanders or do people come from far and wide to be there?
 
MARQUEZ: Well, look, Cleveland is it. It is the total center of the universe this weekend. The eclipses here. The final four for the women's, the NCAA Final Four for the women's and the International Film Festival is all here in Cleveland. So there are people from all over the world in Cleveland coming here to see eclipses. I've covered eclipses before. You usually get astronomy clubs from all over the world coming to places like this. All we need now is sun for that sunshine to be there. It says it might be cloudy on Monday. It's gorgeous right now. So we're going to do our sun dance and make sure that it's sunny on Monday.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh good. Yes, we need to do this sun dance. Well, we know it's already electric because of the women's and their basketball plan last night with NCAA so it's going to continue. There's going to be a lot of good luck and good fortune coming your way there in Cleveland. I just know it. Miguel Marquez --
 
MARQUEZ: Rock and roll baby.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Rock and roll baby.
 
MARQUEZ: It's going to be a great time.
 
WHITFIELD: OK, sounds good. Thank you. Well, let's find out whether the forecast is going to be in perfect alignment with the expectations there in Cleveland and beyond. Elisa Raffa is with us now, because this is going to be a huge event, not just for Cleveland. But, you know, along the whole path of where I guess, you know, geographically the best places to be.
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes. And --
 
WHITFIELD: How are people getting ready for this?
 
RAFFA: And it's like, not the day you want to see a storm develop and bring some strong thunderstorms. But that's kind of where we're at. Yes, as we go into Monday. Yes. So we've got a storm developing as we go into Monday, mostly in the Central Plains. And this is the updated severe risk for it. It's a level two out of five, with damaging winds and very large hail possible. Now, a lot of these storms will fire up in the South, kind of after the totality. But look at all the cities that are just along that path.
 
So you can see the showers really start going into Sunday. And then if you're traveling Sunday night, you're dealing with some of that rain for areas like Cleveland and Indianapolis and the front stalls with some of those showers right near that path of totality, by Monday. So that's where you've got some of the clouds from Texas, down into Missouri. We -- it looks like we'll find some more clearing up in the Ohio Valley and going into New England.
 
So an hourly forecast for a place like Dallas, you can see you've got some of those mostly cloudy skies. But I mean, you'll be able to definitely see that darkness and you might not be able to see the corona or the crescent of the eclipse coming in but with some of those clouds, but you'll get the darkness for sure. Looks like some more sunshine in a place like Indianapolis when you hit that totality at about 3 o'clock.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow.
 
RAFFA: So you get some of it, but maybe not a little bit.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. All right. Well, that's the ominous feel that everybody wants. It -- even though it's just going to be for four months -- four minutes, but it may feel like, you know, four hours, because it's such an event. All right, so we know people are descending on a variety of places. If they can't get their glasses, then what are these props you have here? These are things like you know, do it yourself at home?
 
RAFFA: Things that you've got at home for sure. And I was able to talk to an expert who is an MIT engineer and she as a children's host, Emily's Wonder Lab. Emily Calandrelli, and she's got some really cool tips for you. Take a listen.
 
WHITFIELD: OK.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EMILY CALANDRELLI, HOST, "EMILY'S WONDER LAB": Everybody is so excited. And they have so many questions. And they want to make sure that their kids are able to enjoy it and they just want to know exactly what to do. So I have some props. This is what I'm bringing to the Eclipse. I'm going to Dallas and I'm going to be bringing a few things because I have a daughter who's four and a son who's two. My daughter will be wearing solar eclipse glasses and I'm going to teach her solar safety on how to watch the sun. We have solar eclipse glasses for my husband and I. For my son I'm bringing a colander. I just got this off Amazon. And this will act like a pinhole projector that will cast the shadow the image of the solar eclipse while the moon is crossing across the surface of the sun and we see that Crescent solar shape. This will cast that image on the ground so I don't really want him looking after the sun because the solar damage of -- to eyes it's just -- it's very risky for little eyes. And so I'm going to have him look at this and look at the ground and see the shapes of it on the ground.
 <br>[12:35:10]
 
And then I'm bringing a disco ball, because I've seen some really great TikToks of people who had disco balls in their room during the 2017 solar eclipse. And they noticed that this cast the shadow of the solar eclipse, all along their walls, and so they had dozens and dozens of crescent shaped all along their walls. And it just looked so beautiful. So I'm going to be bringing this as well.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: That is some good inventive ideas.
 
RAFFA: Yes. And one more for you.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, yes.
 
RAFFA: If you've got like a cereal box or a snack box, you can make your own viewer. There's some white paper in here that will kind of like art and the sunlight goes into this pinhole here. And then you can get the reflection, the shadow happened inside of the box with the sun behind you, right? So the idea is the sun is to my back. So I'm not staring at it. And this is a safe way for you to see the shadow as it comes through here and reflects through here.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. I get it now. I'm glad you demonstrate it because at first I was looking I'm like, I don't know.
 
RAFFA: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: OK, I get it now. And I understand the calendar. So it's really an issue of the sun emitting light through the colander and then seeing --
 
RAFFA: The shadow.
 
WHITFIELD: -- the shadow on the ground.
 
RAFFA: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: OK.
 
RAFFA: Exactly.
 
WHITFIELD: I have those things at home. I might be doing that.
 
RAFFA: Some ideas for you, some tours.
 
WHITFIELD: And I'm really not that crafty. But this I think I can handle those. All right, very fun. We're looking forward to it. And of course, our enormous coverage is on Monday. So get ready, Elisa and everyone, get your viewing glasses ready, you know, just have an open mind about everything and open eyes sort of. We've got special live coverage of the Eclipse Across America. It's starting Monday, April 8th, 1:00 Eastern or stream it on Max.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:41:28]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, spring break is here. And many drivers are having to factor high gas prices into their travel plans after bottoming out in January at over three bucks a gallon. The national average now stands more than 50 cents higher according to AAA. And that includes a climb of 20 cents over the past month to 355 per gallon. So what's behind the surge? And how high could they get before Memorial Day. I want to bring in now Patrick de Haan to discuss, head of petroleum analysis with GasBuddy. Patrick, great to see you. So what's going on now? Why are gas prices jumping?
 
PATRICK DE HAAN, HEAD OF PETROLEUM ANALYSIS, GASBUDDY: Well, this is somewhat an uncomfortable but familiar pinch that we generally see every spring. We saw the rise in prices really start a little bit earlier this year. This is happening really for three main factors. Refinery maintenance happens in late winter early spring ahead of the start of the summer driving season. 
 
And as such, refineries aren't producing as much gasoline during this window. Demand for gasoline is going up, Americans are getting out more and more, as you mentioned, spring break travel, the Eclipse, a lot of travel happening. And at the same time, we're also making the switch over to more expensive blends of summer gasoline mandated by the EPA. So that's usually what leads to prices going up every spring.
 
WHITFIELD: OK, so with all that, you know, spring break, traveling to see the Eclipse. Any advice on where the gas is -- the gas is either most or least expensive right now?
 
DE HAAN: Yes. You can see the map behind me. The West Coast tends to see the highest prices. In fact, California is back over an average of $5 a gallon for the first time since last October. If you want the lowest price gasoline, head to the Gulf Coast, areas like Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, generally have prices that are still close to $3. In fact, Colorado, the nation's cheapest gasoline this morning, about 303 a gallon. So there are still some sub $3 prices. But those will probably disappear as we get closer to the start of summer.
 
WHITFIELD: OK, so let's talk about summer. I mean, you know, you have some encouragement for people who do want to take their road trips?
 
DE HAAN: I'm hopeful that this summer will be similar to last year. I'm not expecting the national average to hit the $4 gallon mark. Although the price of oil is now at its highest level since October. So watch what happens in the Middle East, that certainly could increase our odds of potentially seeing a $4 gallon average this summer. 
 
But I think we're going to stop short of that for now. Keep in mind hurricane season as well, that could play a role in the prices later this summer. But all in all, it's going to be a very similar year to last year where gas prices for most of the summer are probably in the mid to upper $3 gallon range.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Happy traveling you all, Patrick de Haan, thank you so much.
 
DE HAAN: Thanks.
 <br>[12:44:14]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, did you stay up late last night watching the game? I tried. Caitlin Clark, well, she's heading back to the national title game. Iowa narrowly advanced to the women's NCAA Tournament championship game after the refs made with some say as a controversial call with less than four seconds left in the game. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: March Madness is winding down. Let's talk men's first NC State and Purdue and then Alabama will be up against UConn tonight in the men's final four. And then there's the women's final which is set for Sunday. What a game that was last night or two games actually. Iowa will now play against South Carolina with many eyes on Caitlin Clark as she returned to the national championship to finish her college career. Iowa had a narrow win against UConn in the final four game with a controversial call in the final seconds.
 
Joining me right now is CNN's Coy Wire. And wow I mean those back to back games were just magnificent last night. But Coy, let's zero in on that Iowa win. I mean what do we have to look forward to on Sunday?
 <br>[12:49:58]
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes, I mean that all eyes were glued on that semi-final last night, right, Fred. One of the most highly anticipated women's basketball games ever both teams fought to the very last second living up to all the hype. And as you mentioned, not without some controversy. 
 
Check this out. Caitlin Clark held to zero, three pointers and just six points in the first half, stifling defense by UConn. But she did step up in the second sink in a pair of threes to kick start a third quarter surge. She finished with 21.
 
But in the final seconds, UConn down one with a chance to tie and Aaliyah Edwards gets called for the moving screen. LeBron James loads of others post and they didn't like the call, but that's how it would end. UConn players, they handled it with grace. Iowa when 71-69 headed to the final.
 
Now Iowa will face undefeated South Carolina. They dominated NC State 78-59. Dawn Staley squad has only lost three games in the last three years. Iowa was the last team to beat them in the final four last year. So this rematch will be epic. Caitlin Clark says that she is ready to get one last crack at making history. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAITLIN CLARK, IOWA GUARD: I think being in this moment before I think, you know, gives our group a good understanding of what to expect. You know, we know what South Carolina brings to the table. We know we're going to have our hands full. The way that they played tonight was incredible. But, you know, it's the national championship. It's the last game of my career. It's last game for five people on this team. So I don't think motivation will be hard to come by.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: All right, Fredricka, tonight in Arizona in the men's final for Purdue trying to end the Cinderella run of NC State. Alabama in their first ever final four, they're taking on the defending champion UConn Huskies. UConn has won their last 10 tournament games by double digits. Never been done before. They're led by their very superstitious, very fiery coach, Dan Hurley, who wears the same fiery red dragon underwear every game I caught up with him and his wife Andrea, and the three other coaches ask them about their superstitions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: He's a 51-year-old man, why did you buy them for him in the first place?
 
ANDREA HURLEY, DAN HURLEY'S WIFE: Because he's a 12-year-old boy at heart.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I got my same shiny Prada shoes that I wear for fun a nine games.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not superstitious.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I do not really have anything. I take a nap before the game.
 
DAN HURLEY, UCONN HUSKIES COACH: I love superheroes. I love animals and I've got a pair for any occasion.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I certainly don't wear the same clothes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're comfortable. I've had a full well. But the referees think that I'm with them because I got shiny shoes, so.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just a little stitches right?
 
WIRE: Not superstitions. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just a little stitches.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: All right? Fredricka, we can all watch both games tonight on our sister network TBS, TNT, truTV and Max. Pregame coverage starting at 3:00 Eastern before the first games tip off at 6:00. Any superstitions for you, Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: I don't. No, I have -- I don't have any I mean darn but you know that inspires me that I better come up with something because that really shows how creative all of them were. And boldness that they're willing to share from underwear to shoes. Wow. Well, it's all been incredible this whole March Madness thing and it's down to the wire this weekend. And all eyes are glued to the sets unless you're lucky enough like you to have tickets or be there courtside, Coy Wire.
 
WIRE: I'm here for you, Fred. And yes, I'm so pumped to do it. And I look forward to sharing the stories with you.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, it's so fun. Thank you so much there in Phoenix, front row seat.
 
All right, in 2003, the 28th mission, Space Shuttle Columbia launched a team of seven astronauts into space for 16 days in orbit with their families and loved ones eagerly waiting for their return back to Earth which would sadly never come. The new CNN Original Series, Space Shuttle Columbia: The Final Flight, looks at the footage shot by the astronauts while in orbit. Testimony from the crews family members and key players at NASA and journalists who were on the ground covering the story as it happened.
 
The series pays tribute to the men and women onboard and uncovers the details that ultimately led to disaster. Here's a preview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Seven astronauts setting off on a scientific mission.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All hands buddy, high five.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They were doing great.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I didn't know at the time that anything concerning it happened. There were people that did though.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They started quickly playing the lottery play and that was when we saw it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One can't help but ask, is that part of the wing coming apart?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We did not know what the problem was. We don't want to alarm the crew until we get a handle on this.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Columbia Houston comm check.
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All year, nothing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If you work in human spaceflight, this is the worst possible thing that can ever happen.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The space shuttle accident is usually not one thing. It's a series of events.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Follow the debris. What's it telling you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You should have had that test on day one.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I miss you papa.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Being an astronaut is something that we always call the calculated risk.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Humans are explorers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My dad chose the profession that is dangerous. And he was like, but we don't want to be fearful to have it. He died doing what he loved.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There we go.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Space Shuttle Columbia: The Final Flight, premieres tomorrow at 9:00 on CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)