Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: CNN International: All 51 Men in Pelicot Abuse Case Found Guilty; Putin: "Situation is Changing Dramatically" in Ukraine War; CNN on Gaza Side of Israeli-Controlled Kerem Shalom Crossing; Musk Threatens Republicans in Support of Government Spending Bill; Thousands of Amazon Workers go on Strike. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired December 19, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ERICA HILL, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: A live look here at Washington, where chaos is back this morning after a Republican spending bill was 
 
 scrapped overnight thanks to criticism from Donald Trump and Elon Musk. It is 09:00 a.m. on the East Coast. Thanks so much for joining me this hour. 
 
 I'm Erica Hill. You're watching "Connect the world".
 
Also ahead, all 51 defendants in the horrific Pelicot rape trial have been found guilty, although a number of them given sentences that were much 
 
 shorter than expected and requested. Plus accused CEO killer Luigi Mangione is in court where he is expected to waive extradition to New York. And 
 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin answering questions about the war in Ukraine in his end of year news conference.
 
The stock market here in New York set to open, of course, just about 30 minutes from now, not a lot of movement. When we look at futures at this 
 
 hour, investors still digesting, of course, the Fed's revised outlook for rates in 2025 after that Fed news, the DOW dropped, falling for a 10th 
 
 straight day. We're going to see, of course, what Thursday brings. 
 
We do begin this hour, though, in France with just a search for a woman who has become an icon in the fight against sexual violence. Gisele Pelicot was 
 
 mobbed by supporters and the media leaving court today her former husband, Dominique, and 50 other men found guilty of rape and sexual assault abuse 
 
 he coordinated for a decade.
 
Dominique Pelicot receiving the maximum sentence of 20 years in prison for repeatedly raping his wife and bringing strangers into their home to join 
 
 in the abuse. Gisele Pelicot spoke outside court a short time ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GISELE PELICOT, SPEAKS AFTER EX-HUSBAND: I am thinking finally of the unrecognized victims of stories which often unfold in the shadows. I want 
 
 you to know we share the same fight. I would like to express my most profound gratitude to everyone who supported me throughout this length 
 
 trial. Your testimonies moved me, and I took strength from them to return every day during these long days of hearings.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: All 50 accomplices in Dominique Pelicot's decade long rape scheme was also found guilty shorter sentences, though for many than the prosecution 
 
 had requested, and that elicits of audible gas in the courtroom and obvious disappointment from a number of people, including Pelicot's daughter.
 
CNN's Melissa Bell joins us now from outside the court in Avignon. Mellisa, you been following this story for some time, and the response that it has 
 
 garnered, of course, not just in France, but far beyond worldwide. Before we get to what happened in court, just give us a sense of the impact if you 
 
 could that this case has had in France.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Gisele Pelicot, who has been admirable throughout this celebrated for her courage, her 
 
 humility from the very start and from far across the world. It was her decision, of course, to make it public that made such a difference that 
 
 allowed a number of things to happen. 
 
First of all, the accusers and right to anonymity to be waived, and then the videos to be shown in court. All of that has meant that the impact of 
 
 this has really gone far beyond the borders of France. As to what actually happened here in court today, there were large crowds outside, as there has 
 
 been almost every day for the nearly four months of this trial Erica.
 
Men and women who come to support Gisele Pelicot again as she arrived, shouting -- to her arrival, and again as she left, thanking her for what 
 
 she has done. By achieving this whatever the sentence is handed down today, the fact that the trial was made public has led to this sort of societal 
 
 reckoning. 
 
The question of how this number of men could have come into someone's home, found an unconscious woman, and not thought to raise the alarm or alert 
 
 anyone or turn away themselves, is remarkable? And it's a very uncomfortable question that's really been placed before wider society. 
 
We heard those sentences handed down. The only man who did receive the maximum sentence being sought was Dominique Pelicot himself. All of the 
 
 others received lesser sentences, as you mentioned, Erica, and that's led to a great deal of outrage outside the court here today.
 
There were shouts of rapists, we see you as proceedings got underway, and when at least one of the men who walked free today because of a suspended 
 
 sentence, walked out, he was jeered fairly violently by the crowd, even as he tried to hide his face.
 
We also heard beyond the strong words of Gisele Pelicot herself that you played there a moment ago. We also heard from a lawyer representing 
 
 Dominique Pelicot, the husband, again, the only guilty man here today to be handed the full 20-year sentence. This is what he said.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEATRICE ZAVARRO, DOMINIQUE PELICOT'S ATTORNEY: The Criminal Court of -- has given its verdict sentencing Dominique Pelicot to 20 years in prison. 
 
 Mr. Pelicot has taken note of the decision, and we are going to take advantage of the delay, which has given us 10 days to decide if we will 
 
 appeal this decision. At the moment I am speaking to you, no decision has been taken.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BELL: So, he has that lawyer 10 days to appeal, but so too do -- does the prosecution, and I think that's going to be really interesting to see what 
 
 happens in the next 10 days. If the prosecution decides that they feel that some of their sentences have been -- they can appeal, as you just heard, 
 
 Dominique Pelicot can and also appeal the decision. 
 
What that would mean Erica is that this court room, which had a jury of five judges on it, there would now be a second Mazan trial that's been 
 
 called off the name of the village not far from Avignon, where these terrible events unfolded, where the Pelicot couple lived. There would be a 
 
 second Mazan trial, this time in front of a jury.
 
HILL: We will be watching to see what happens there. As you noted, we will know in the next 10 days. Melissa, appreciate it thank you. Also joining me 
 
 this hour, Elodie Rauillon-Hibon, who is a French Lawyer and an Expert on Gender Related Legal Issues, it's good to have you with us when you see the 
 
 sentences that were handed down. I'm curious, are you surprised?
 
ELODIE RAUILLON-HIBON, ATTORNEY: Yes, I'm a bit surprised, because they are unusually low penalties for such crimes. And it's yes, in a way, it's a bit 
 
 of a disappointment. We were waiting for harder sentences actually.
 
HILL: Do you believe the prosecution will appeal those sentences?
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Well, I think that it's one of the reasons why the penalties are so low is because probably court and prosecution want to 
 
 avoid the appeal, and if that is our law usually there is, there is no appeal, but it's a bit all in the end of Dominic Pelicot, unfortunately, 
 
 once again.
 
HILL: Yeah, once again. When we look at stepping back, Gisele Pelicot has become a hero in France and beyond.
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Yes.
 
HILL: How has she changed the conversation about sexual violence, and specifically about rape in France?
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Well, I think that thanks to Gisele. Now it's a kind of randomization of sexual violence. I mean, in France now, it's starting to 
 
 be clear that rape is a huge political matter, that it's everywhere in the -- in the streets, of course, but mainly in the families, at the workplace 
 
 and so on. So, she did something really important by choosing to get -- not get that private. So, it's -- it's -- yes, it's very, very important. She 
 
 put the matter in the place again, I would say,
 
HILL: And how rare is it for a victim to waive that right to privacy, as she did?
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: It's quite difficult, mainly when there are videos, because -- well, it's hard for them to imagine that there are so many people who 
 
 can see and listen. But it tends to become more usual to get that public, actually, because women are victims, not only women, but victims, are 
 
 really much more aware that it's important and that it's not to them to be ashamed of.
 
HILL: And which -- and that was certainly one of Gisele Pelicot's messages of not being --
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Yes.
 
HILL: -- ashamed that it was not her --
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Yes.
 
HILL: -- who did anything wrong.
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Yes.
 
HILL: It was these men.
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Yes. And it's -- and it's very, very important. And I think a lot of people have heard in that way, yes.
 
HILL: Yeah, let's hope this is a conversation that continues, because it needs to. Elodie Rauillon-Hibon appreciate you joining us. Thank you.
 
RAUILLON-HIBON: Thank you.
 
HILL: The suspect in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson is in court this hour in Pennsylvania. Luigi Mangione is facing a first 
 
 preliminary hearing on charges from the State of Pennsylvania, firearm and forgery, charges related to his arrest there, and then an extradition 
 
 hearing.
 
He is expected to waive extradition, and with that, of course, return to New York, where he will face a number of charges, including first degree 
 
 murder. His attorney criticizing reports that he may also face federal charges. Attorney and Legal Affairs Commentator Areva Martin is joining me 
 
 now from Los Angeles. Areva, great to have you with us. 
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
So, let's start there with what we heard from Mangione's Attorney Karen Friedman Agnifilo, putting out a statement saying that the discussion of 
 
 possible federal charges, in her view, would pile on top of an already over charged first degree murder and state terror case. She went on to say it 
 
 raises serious constitutional and statutory double jeopardy concerns. Would you agree?
 
AREVA MARTIN, ATTORNEY &amp; LEGAL AFFAIRS COMMENTATOR: No, I'm not so sure. I agree with Mangione's attorney, New York attorney. Obviously, she has 
 
 concerns about additional charges, particularly federal charges, Erica, because federal charges would bring with him the possibility of the death 
 
 penalty. 
 
The death penalty is not a possibility in the State of New York, even if he's convicted on the first-degree murder charges in New York, the maximum 
 
 sentence or penalty would be life in prison without the opportunity for parole. So, I can understand why Mangione's attorney is particularly 
 
 concerned about particularly federal charges, because it would carry the possibility of the death penalty.
 
HILL: You mentioned that first degree murder charge here in New York, that charge in furtherance of an act of terrorism for it to be charge of first-
 
 degree murder in the State of New York, it has to be -- you know against a police officer, for example, a judge, or in a case like this. There has 
 
 been some talk about this charge specifically in relating it to terror, that may be an over reach by the prosecution and difficult to prove in 
 
 court. What do you think about that?
 
MARTIN: Well, I agree with that. Maybe some challenges with respect to supporting this in furtherance of terror, the enhancement on the first-
 
 degree murder. Obviously, this did not involve the murder of a police officer or first responder, but it did, as Alvin Bragg indicated during his 
 
 press conference earlier this week, involve a brazen attack in broad daylight in Manhattan.
 
And he believes that the premeditated murder was designed to intimidate public citizens and to advance a governmental policy, which are parts of 
 
 the statute in the State of New York that would allow the charging of in furtherance of terrorism. 
 
So, I don't think the evidence obviously has not been fully developed in terms of how the prosecution would support those charges, but clearly, 
 
 given the brazen nature of this crime, I believe the prosecution was within its right to file the more serious charges of first-degree murder.
 
HILL: Given that if in fact, there were federal charges brought, based on what we know at this point, what did you -- what would you imagine those 
 
 charges would be?
 
MARTIN: Well, again, I wouldn't be surprised if we saw some kind of terrorism charge in those in -- if the federal charges are brought by the 
 
 Southern District of New York by the U.S. Attorney's Office. Again, when you look at what this was, when you look at the note that was found on 
 
 Mangione when he was actually arrested.
 
When you look at how this was premeditated plan, and apparently, to make a statement, make some kind of political statement, about the state of health 
 
 care in the U.S. I wouldn't be surprised if we didn't see those federal charges, and I am not at all certain that the state charges, the terrorism 
 
 charge, is not going to be successful as well.
 
HILL: We'll be watching for all that. We're going to get you -- continue pardon me to follow those developments out of that courtroom in 
 
 Pennsylvania as we have more. Areva, I know you're going to stick around with us for the next hour as well, so we will see you shortly. Thank you. 
 
MARTIN: Thank you.
 
HILL: Some stunning new details today about the suspect who officials say killed a teacher and a student at her Wisconsin school on Monday. 
 
 Authorities say the 15-year-old who is seen here at a shooting range in August had been in contact with a 20-year-old man in California that the 
 
 two have been plotting a mass shooting together. That's according to "The Associated Press" report sending court documents.
 
The man also told the girl that he was planning to attack a government building according to that report. Authorities say they are still 
 
 investigating why she went on a shooting rampage at her private school before killing herself.
 
Turning our attention now to Russia, where President Vladimir Putin has been speaking with Russian journalists and citizens about his full-scale 
 
 invasion of Ukraine in the annual news conference. Just a short time ago, he declined to say when Moscow would recapture the Southern Kursk Region 
 
 from Ukrainian forces, but did say his forces are making advances overall.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT: The situation is changing dramatically. Movement is taking place along the entire front line every day. And as I 
 
 already said, we are not talking about advancing by 100, 200, 300 meters. Our fighters are taking back territory by square kilometers. I want to 
 
 emphasize, every day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Putin was taking questions as Ukraine's President was calling for the U.S. and Europe to act as a united front to stop Russia's aggression. 
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressing European Union Leaders at a summit in Brussels just a short time ago. CNN's Clare Sebastian has also been 
 
 monitoring this news conference out of Russia, joining us now live. What else have we heard from Putin today?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Erica, I think, look, he was a very confident figure today, cracking jokes, talking pretty colloquially. 
 
 And he went on for 4.5 hours, which I think at 72 certainly is designed to project his sort of stamina and vigor as he continues in his fifth term as 
 
 the Russian President.
 
In terms of news lines, there were a few, he talked about President elect Trump. He said he would be willing to meet with him at any time, but he 
 
 hasn't heard from him as of yet, and he hasn't spoken to him. He said in over four years, which continues along the Kremlin's refuting of the 
 
 reporting that we heard initially in Bob Woodward's but that Trump had called Putin some seven or so times since leaving office.
 
So, he talked about that. He talked about Syria and Assad, who as we know, is now in Moscow, arrived almost two weeks ago. He hasn't met him yet, but 
 
 he does intend to, he said. And when he does, he is going to bring up the issue of that missing American journalist, Austin Tice.
 
He's also, he said, looking for a solution with the new leadership in Syria, around the Russian bases there. So, he talked fairly extensively 
 
 about that. But overall, this was really an opportunity. He's not just talking to a domestic audience here. He's talking to a global audience to 
 
 project Russian strength, to talk up their successes on the battlefield, to talk up the Russian economy, the Russian defense industry.
 
And I think it was also an opportunity to re-establish the deterrent, in particular, nuclear deterrent in the face of continued Western support for 
 
 Ukraine. He was asked about Western skepticism around that Oreshnik missile, the medium range ballistic missile that Russia fired in November, 
 
 and the thoughts in the West that Russia's claims that it cannot be shot down are false. Take a listen to what you said about that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PUTIN: Let them identify some target for destruction, say, in Kyiv, concentrate all their air defense and missile defense forces there, and we 
 
 will strike there with Oreshnik and see what happens. We are ready for such an experiment, but is the other side ready.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So that's a pretty out there way of re-establishing this deterrence, suggesting a sort of missile versus air defense Jew in Kyiv. 
 
 But I think look overall, this is a Russian President who is clearly still laser focused on his special military operation, glossing over various sort 
 
 of other challenges that Russia faces economically and in terms of demographics and things like that, and really sort of confident in the face 
 
 of Russian gains on the battlefield.
 
HILL: And it is in, as you point out, to looking on so many fronts to project that air of strength, whether it's talking about plans for Ukraine 
 
 or just sitting there for 4.5 hours in terms of, you know, the so-called goals that Vladimir Putin had with the initial invasion. Did he get into 
 
 any of that?
 
SEBASTIAN: So, he says that they are, you know, achieving their goals in the special military operation. I think obviously the elephant in the room 
 
 is that when this first started, it was supposed to take a few days, and we're now almost three years in. And yet, I think, look, we're now in the 
 
 third year of this war, and the conflict is not at a stalemate.
 
Russia is inching forward, albeit with tactical rather than strategic gains on the battlefield. He did get in, interestingly, into the issue he was 
 
 asked about whether he would compromise with Ukraine when it comes to peace talks. We know the incoming U.S. Administration has been pushing towards 
 
 sort of mentioning some kind of peace talks.
 
President Orban of Hungary also talking about possibly a Christmas ceasefire. He did say cryptically that Russia is willing to negotiate, is 
 
 willing to compromise, but did not give any details on how. So, I think deliberately vague, and partly, I think that is as a result of the fact 
 
 that Russia is still not sure what is going to happen under Trump. That's still not clear how Trump's Ukraine policy is going to play out.
 
HILL: It is amazing how much those unknowns, right, related to the incoming U.S. administration are playing out globally. It's really something. Clare, 
 
 appreciate it as always. Thank you. Still ahead here the U.S. warning Syria's new leaders not to repeat the mistakes at the Taliban those 
 
 details.
 
Plus, U.S. lawmakers scrambling now to re think about partisan spending bill that would avoid a government shutdown, following comments from Donald 
 
 Trump and his allies, comments wreaking havoc on Capitol Hill.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
HILL: Israel launching deadly strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen. Those air strikes hit a port and oil facility near the capital City of Sanaa, 
 
 according to Houthi officials, who say nine people were killed and the attacks also come just hours after the Houthis latest attack on Israel.
 
The target there reportedly too sensitive, Israeli military targets in Tel Aviv, elsewhere in the region. Human Rights Watch is the latest NGO to 
 
 accuse Israel of genocide in Gaza. The group says Israel has been deliberately restricting water in the Enclave. Israel's Foreign Ministry 
 
 has denied those accusations, saying Israel has, quote, facilitated the continuous flow of water and humanitarian aid into Gaza.
 
CNN has been on the Gaza side of the Israeli control of Kerem Shalom crossing a key entry point, of course, for crucial aid into that enclave. 
 
 Here's what Jeremy Diamond found.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: We are on the Gaza side of the Kerem Shalom crossing, where you are seeing pallets of humanitarian aid 
 
 being off loaded here. But the problem is this aid simply isn't getting to the people of Gaza in the quantities that are needed. Humanitarian aid 
 
 agencies say that the Israeli government and the Israeli military are to blame for that, not facilitating the safe distribution of aid.
 
The Israelis deny that. They insist that enough aid is getting into Gaza and that they are facilitating that aid, but I press one of the top Israeli 
 
 officials responsible for getting that aid in on that very question. They say that the issues are the Israeli military's unwillingness to facilitate 
 
 safe distribution of aid.
 
COLONEL ABDULLAH HALABI, ISRAEL'S COORDINATION AND LIAISON ADMINISTRATION: No, the Israeli troops to the Israeli side, just in the last few weeks, 
 
 facilitated several options in order to enter the aid to the Gazian side.
 
DIAMOND: Does your role stop at this checkpoint? Do you believe that your role stops at this checkpoint that you're not responsible for how safely 
 
 the aid can get distributed inside of Gaza.
 
HALABI: -- the national community is responsible to deliver the aid from the crossing points to the people of Gaza, it's their responsibility. We --
 
DIAMOND: -- responsibility for making it safe.
 
HALABI: We facilitated the crossings and the aid. Tell the crossing, we inspect the aid, we put it in the platforms, and we encourage the 
 
 humanitarian community and the organizations to come and to take the aid. The main problem, the main obstacle, is the capabilities distribution.
 
DIAMOND: Amid that dispute between the aid agencies and the Israeli military, these pallets of aid, they are piling up. And this isn't a 
 
 theoretical problem. We are seeing that the humanitarian conditions in Gaza, they simply aren't getting better. In fact, there's a lot of chance 
 
 that it could get worse.
 
With the arrival of winter, the rains, the need for shelter is rising. Respiratory illnesses are rising. And people are sometimes going without 
 
 food for days. Of course, a ceasefire deal could improve all of this, bringing an enormous flow of humanitarian aid into the Gaza Strip.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
We know that those negotiations, of course, are ongoing. Jeremy Diamond, CNN on the Gaza side of the Kerem Shalom crossing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: Well, meantime, the U.S. Secretary of State is now warning Syria's new rulers not to follow in the steps at the Taliban. Speaking in New York 
 
 on Wednesday, Antony Blinken noted the Taliban initially projected a more moderate face in Afghanistan until its true colors came out.
 
And is calling on Syria's rebels turned rulers to follow through on their promises of inclusion or to risk international isolation. Colin Clarke is 
 
 Director of Policy and Research at The Soufan Group, where he is an expert on terrorism and security. He's also the author of after "After the 
 
 Caliphate: The Islamic State &amp; the Future Terrorist Diaspora".
 
And joins me now. It's good to have you with us. So, we had heard rumblings of this, right? But to hear these comments directly from Secretary Blinken 
 
 yesterday, this is a concern I know among so many about whether what is being projected in terms of talk at the moment will, in fact, be the walk 
 
 that is walked. How confident are you that those words can be trusted in this moment?
 
COLIN CLARKE, DIRECTOR OF POLICY AND RESEARCH AT THE SOUFAN GROUP: Thanks for having me. I'm very concerned. Look, you wouldn't be human if you 
 
 didn't rejoice with some of the scenes coming out of Syria, people that are experiencing freedom for the first time in their life. But now the hard 
 
 part starts.
 
Now you have this you know what everyone is calling, a rebel group, still a designated foreign terrorist organization by the United States and Hayat 
 
 Tahrir Al Sham attempting to rule over the entirety of Syria. This is going to be extremely difficult. Abu Mohammed Al Jolani is saying all the right 
 
 things.
 
However, when push comes to shove, there are hard liners, even within HTS that aren't going to like the direction that things are going if he 
 
 continues to pursue a moderate and pragmatic approach. And so not only does he have to unify all of Syria, Kurds, all these different ethnicities and 
 
 religions, he's also got to maintain his own coalition, and if he's hard liners within that.
 
HILL: And speaking of there are, we know there are also multiple things happening, multiple things at play right now. There's a real concern about 
 
 ISIS being able to exploit the situation in Syria.
 
CLARKE: There's a massive concern. It's one of the biggest issues. I think this is what we would call a day one issue for the Trump Administration as 
 
 it comes back into office in January. Turkey and the Kurds are clashing in Northern Syria. This is having the impact of one it's pulling away some of 
 
 the Arab component from the Syrian Democratic Forces, the SDF.
 
That's important because they're in charge of the prisons where ISIS fighters and their families are and the more the Kurds are stretched thin, 
 
 the more their bandwidth is maxed out the fewer resources and less manpower they'll have to deal with these prisons. And you better believe that ISIS 
 
 is watching this very closely.
 
This is a part of it stated breaking the walls campaign. They've done it before as recently as January 2022 in Al-Hasakah. And this would be 
 
 straight up a complete disaster for Syria.
 
HILL: You know, I was wondering there was a piece of "The New York Times", a senior U.S. official in the region, as they were identified, telling the 
 
 times that for these Kurdish fighters, what they are facing is not an imminent but a serious threat. The fact that they're said that the official 
 
 was saying it's not imminent. Would you agree?
 
CLARKE: It feels imminent. At this point, if you look at the way that the Turks are kind of gearing up to deal with the Kurds. To me, it feels like 
 
 we're watching a disaster happen in slow motion. And of course, on the Africa on the back end, people are going to kind of shrug and say, you 
 
 know, how did we not see this coming?
 
The counter terrorism researchers I know are concerned about it, and something needs to be done. That's a big part of U.S. diplomacy here.
 
HILL: Yeah, there's also, I do want to get your take on what we're seeing in terms of Israel's movements. We saw Netanyahu, of course, Mount Hermon, 
 
 and then a source telling CNN that he had told troops they would stay there for at least another year. How does that move impact the stability of the 
 
 region?
 
CLARKE: Well, I think, you know, it's not a good faith effort to the incoming government of Syria to go up and gobble up territory and then say 
 
 that they're going to stay. Look, I think it's really bad optics. It's typical Netanyahu here. Give an inch, take a mile. And for folks that think 
 
 that, you know, there's change ahead in the Middle East.
 
This is going to be some pretty bad news for all those countries that are attempting to engage with the Israelis, that there's even, you know, more 
 
 territories followed up. And this is a critical several weeks leading up to the Trump Administration, essentially a lame duck period where countries 
 
 like Israel, Turkey and others are going to press the advantage to maximize their own leverage.
 
HILL: Colin Clarke, really great to have your insight, your expertise. Thank you.
 
CLARKE: Thanks.
 
HILL: Stay with us, much more to come after this short break. You're watching "Connect the World".
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
HILL: Welcome back. I'm Erica Hill in New York. You're watching "Connect the World". Wednesday was not a great day for stocks. After the Federal 
 
 Reserve revised its outlook for interest rates next year, the DOW tanked on Wednesday. As for how things are going, nearly three minutes into this 
 
 trading day, little bit better.
 
Nice to see some green there. We will see if things can stay in positive territory throughout the day. In Washington, U.S. House Speaker Mike 
 
 Johnson is scrambling this morning to come up with a new plan for a spending bill in hopes of avoiding a government shutdown.
 
Johnson's funding plan with hard earned bipartisan support, is on pretty shaky ground at this hour after President-Elect Trump and others, including 
 
 Elon Musk criticized the bill. This, of course, is just days before the deadline. A source familiar with the discussions telling CNN Trump called 
 
 it a quote, bad bill, arguing it gives away too much.
 
He's also calling for the debt ceiling to be raised, which is a highly complex move that lawmakers are doubtful could happen by the Friday 
 
 deadline. The House Majority Leader Steve Scalise non-committal late Wednesday about whether raising the debt ceiling would actually make it 
 
 into any deal, as CNN's Manu Raju reports. Donald Trump, though, was not the first to speak out publicly against this bill.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Donald Trump torpedoing a carefully negotiated bipartisan compromise to avoid a 
 
 government shutdown by the end of the week, this negotiation had happened behind closed doors for several weeks, and ultimately a deal was reached. 
 
 It came out just last night.
 
That deal about 1500 pages in length. It had a whole wide range of provisions, but the most significant part, it would extend government 
 
 funding until mid-March to avoid a shutdown. Now, throughout the course of the day, anger began to build on the right. Republicans, particularly 
 
 conservative members, said that it was a bad deal that Mike Johnson, the Speaker of the House, cut with democratic leaders and cut with the White 
 
 House.
 
They pointed a number of provisions that they did not like in there. There were some politically toxic measures as well, such as raising the salary, 
 
 give a salary increase to members of Congress. But perhaps most significantly, it was Elon Musk who came out to oppose the bill, very 
 
 loudly calling on members who vote for the bill to be essentially lose their elections.
 
And it wasn't just Musk. After Musk came out in his opposition then Donald Trump himself came out opposed to the measure.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
He and JD Vance issued a scathing statement over this bill, he attacked the bill, and he also added a highly complex issue on top of it. He is now 
 
 demanding that Congress raise the national debt limit, avoid the first ever debt default that could have happened next year.
 
He wants that done now, because he doesn't want to deal with it when he's president, even though doing so is a highly complicated issue that we very 
 
 difficult to resolve in just two days. That's one reason why Republicans and Democrats alike have concerns, including this Republican Senator.
 
RAJU: Are you frustrated?
 
SEN. KEVIN CRAMER (R-ND): I'm very frustrated. Can you tell? But I'm frustrated with a smile.
 
RAJU: I mean, are you frustrated with the president-elect?
 
CRAMER: I'm frustrated with his team, to not have engaged sooner than this.
 
RAJU: Do you think Trump should have made his demands earlier?
 
CRAMER: Well, that would have been very helpful. Yeah. I mean, maybe he hadn't thought about it until just today. But yeah, that would have been 
 
 very helpful.
 
RAJU: Is it realistic to raise the national debt limit in two days?
 
CRAMER: I would not think so. I would not think so. But, you know, it's almost Christmas, it's amazing what people might do to get home.
 
RAJU (on camera): Now, how this gets resolved? It means an open question, but there is considerable concern and frustration within the ranks. 
 
 Republicans don't think it's realistic to add the national debt limit. Democrats say they don't want to negotiate, and if they do negotiate a debt 
 
 limit, they're going to demand a whole host of measures that probably will go too far for Elon Musk and Donald Trump.
 
So how this gets resolved remains a major question, as yet another crisis moment begins to engulf Washington. Manu Raju, CNN, Capitol Hill.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL: Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories on our radar at this hour. For the first time in five years, China and India are holding 
 
 formal talks over the contested Himalayan border. The two rivals have been engaged in a tense standoff there since the deadly clash in 2020 both sides 
 
 say they want to work on easy the long running dispute.
 
French President Emmanuel Mac hole has arrived in the French overseas territory of Mayotte, days after a devastating cyclone tore through the 
 
 archipelago. Cyclone Chido causing massive amounts of damage, flattening entire neighborhoods, knocking out electrical clearance.
 
At least 31 people have now been confirmed dead. Rescue teams in Vanuatu are searching for survivors. Two days after a 7.3 magnitude earthquake hit 
 
 the island nation, 16 people are confirmed dead there, and that death toll is expected to rise. The Associated Press reporting the quake destroyed 
 
 reservoirs, leaving Vanuatu's capital without water. Stay tuned. More news after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HILL: In the final stretch of the busy holiday season, members of the steam service union and Amazon are now on strike, a strike that has spread to six 
 
 facilities across four states in the U.S. The group is demanding Amazon officially recognize the union and also negotiate with them about worker's 
 
 rights and conditions and also to improve pay. Amazon, though, for its part, saying operations will be affected.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
The group represents some 7000 workers around the U.S. and accounts for 1 percent of Amazon's U.S. work force. Turning to the Supreme Court, where 
 
 justices on Wednesday agreed to weigh in on the controversial law, which is TikTok must be banned unless the company is sold by its Chinese owners.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I learn a ton here. I also make part of my living here on TikTok.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm really worried, like the rest of you all are.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: TikTok is getting banned, and now I'm not going to have a job next month. That's facts. So how do I become a farmer?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can't have anything fun. Can we get anything -- oh.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: The reaction there from some of the TikTokers, fearful that their beloved app, and for plenty of people, a source of their income could 
 
 disappear. So, the U.S. Supreme Court set to hear arguments early next month, just days before the ban is supposed to take effect on January 19.
 
TikTok's lawyers are trying to extend that deadline, though, in the hopes that the next administration may come to their rescue, even though Trump 
 
 himself once looked to ban TikTok over security concerns about its Chinese parent company. His attitude, though recently, toward the app, seems to 
 
 have softened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND CURRENT PRESIDENTIAL-ELECT: We'll either close up TikTok in this country for security reasons, or it 
 
 will be solved.
 
We'll take a look at TikTok. You know, I have a warm spot in my heart for TikTok, because I won youth by 34 points. And there are those that say that 
 
 TikTok has something to do with that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Well, North America has one less natural threat to worry about. Five years ago, the so-called murder hornets were spotted first in Washington 
 
 State near the Canadian border. On Wednesday, state and federal agricultural officials announced there hadn't been a sighting in three 
 
 years, declaring the murder hornet eradicated.
 
Experts in Canada say the hornet has been wiped out there as well. U.S. officials say the effort included help from residents who agreed to trap, 
 
 place traps on their properties, and also to report sightings. The giant hornets threatened native insects. Quite but honey bee hive in just 90 
 
 minutes.
 
So, there you go. No more murder hornets. One less thing for you to worry about. "World Sport" with Carolyn Manno is up next? Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END