Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Robert Robertson to Testify Before Lawmakers; Million Already Voted in Battleground States; Harris and Trump Making Final Pitches; The Aftermath of Hurricane Helene; Trump Making Stops in Battleground North Carolina. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired October 21, 2024 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:30:00]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR:  -- House Committee has subpoenaed Robert Robertson as they reconsider his murder conviction. It is still unclear whether he will testify in person or virtually today. Robertson was found guilty for the death of his two-year-old daughter more than twenty years ago. His attorneys say the shaken baby syndrome diagnosis, though, at the time was wrong, and that new evidence proves that.
 
Joining me now, Texas State Representative Brian Harrison, who is on the committee holding today's hearing and also helped to get that subpoena to get Roberson to testify. It's good to have you with me this hour. So, I know there's been talk of security concerns. Do you know at this hour whether Robert Roberson will be testifying in person today?
 
REP. BRIAN HARRISON (R-TX):  So, that is my hope. It's my expectation. You know, when I made the motion to issue the subpoena that if we hadn't done it, quite frankly, Robert would almost certainly be dead right now. And I got to say, I'm very proud of every member of my committee, the Republicans and the Democrats who voted to issue that subpoena.
 
I'm appreciative of the Supreme Court in Texas, the all-Republican Supreme Court, by the way, that agreed with us that we absolutely had the lawful authority to issue that subpoena. My hope would be that subpoena would be honored as it was written and issued by that -- by our committee for him to be able to come and testify in person so that we can evaluate him as a witness and get to the bottom of a very concerning potential in this case where we may have a law in the State of Texas, a junk science law that might be disregarded and it's possible an innocent person might be put to death, and we can't have that.
 
HILL:  Why do you think -- is the attorney general in Texas trying to block him from being there in person?
 
HARRISON:  Yes. So, that's not exactly my understanding. The attorney general's office is making arguments on behalf of our Department of Corrections. But as far as I understand from the discussions that have been had, is that we absolutely -- actually, it wouldn't be a very big challenge at all to bring him here to testify in person. And I think we need to. We're talking about somebody with a ninth- grade education who's autistic, who spent 20 years, almost all of it in solitary confinement, in a small cement cell who hasn't -- does not have familiarity with Zoom. And I think it would be unfair for the Committee to have to evaluate or try to evaluate his credibility as a witness by staring at a little box on a computer screen.
 
And I say this, by the way, as a supporter, a long-time supporter of the death penalty, but I believe it's incumbent upon us that once we maintain the death penalty, that we should be the most vigilant in making sure that no innocent person is ever subjected to it.
 
HILL:  What is it specifically about this case that drew you to it, that got you to this point?
 
HARRISON:  Well, it's making sure that our laws are followed. The people write the laws in the State of Texas through their elected representatives. And we've got a law on the books that I firmly believe should have applied to Robert and given him a new trial because he was convicted on the basis of something called the Shaken Baby Theory Hypothesis, because there was no direct evidence of physical abuse of this child, so certain medical evidence or experts gave some types of testimony and a jury convicted him on that. But I firmly believe that in light of all the new evidence that I have been privy to that no jury has -- I think it's very unlikely that knowing what I know now that a jury would find him guilty today.
 
And so, what might -- what I think needs to happen is that he needs a new trial and a new jury needs to re-examine the facts of this case so that all of the evidence that the original jury never saw can be heard as well as in light of the new understanding of shaken baby theory, which has been largely discredited. Most states just get -- push it out the side. And by the way, nobody in any state in the country has ever been executed on the basis of shaken baby theory.
 
Look, I want Texas to lead the nation on just about everything, but executing potentially innocent people is not one of them.
 
HILL:  So, what are you? What are you hoping to hear then? What are your questions for Robertson today to, in fact, if your goal is a new trial, how does this help get you there?
 
HARRISON:  Well, I think this would be the first opportunity for him in a public fora to lay out his perspective on the case and the ways in which the criminal justice system may or may not have handled his petitions fairly, whether our laws, which, again, were designed to give new trials to people when we have evidence change, like, for example, you know, bite mark technology or understanding -- or when new DNA evidence is presented.
 
We need to hear from him, because, again, no one's been executed for this. If we hadn't issued that subpoena, he'd be dead right now. So, arguably, he has got the most unique perspective in all of the United States of America on the way the criminal justice system in the State of Texas has handled his shaken baby syndrome case. And here's the thing, this is something -- from the people who know the facts, Republican, Democrat, pro-death penalty, anti-death penalty, whether you think he's innocent or whether you think he's guilty, if you understand the facts of this case, I think it's really clear the criminal justice system in the State of Texas has failed him in this manner and we have got to get this man a new trial so that all the evidence can be re-evaluated in light of what we understand now.
 
HILL:  Representative Brian Harrison, I appreciate you joining us this morning. Thank you.
 
HARRISON:  Yes, great to be with you.
 
HILL:  And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
HILL:  Well, with 15 days now until Election Day, voting is actually underway in every single state. Let's take a look at some of the latest tallies so far from three key battlegrounds. In Pennsylvania, almost 800,000 people have cast their ballot. In North Carolina, more than a million voters. And in Georgia, 1.4 million have already been out there voting.
 
Joining us now, CNN Political Commentator and Vice President Harris' former communications director, Jamal Simmons, and Republican strategist and director of press communications for Trump's 2020 campaign, Erin Perrine. It's good to see both of you this morning.
 
Those are some pretty big numbers in terms of turnout. We don't know who they voted for, so we can't read much more into it than that. But we have big numbers. Erin, over the weekend we saw this photo op from Donald Trump at a McDonald's serving fries. I'm curious, does that moment get Trump votes?
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
ERIN PERRINE, FORMER PRESS COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, TRUMP 2020 CAMPAIGN AND REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST, AXIOM STRATEGIES:  It certainly can get him votes, especially at the margin at this point. Republicans have a larger swath of low propensity voters that they need to be turning out in this election. Democrats have a larger swath of high propensity voters to turn out. So, when you're looking at a lower propensity voter, you need to make continued touches. And it's clear that the Trump campaign strategy includes making overtures and outreaches to male voters, especially younger male voters. They've seen growth in those demographics.
 
So, an event like the one that you saw at McDonald's, he looked happy, it looked like an old school campaign event. It could be helpful, especially with the key demographic they're trying to move.
 
HILL:  So, you think that speaks to young voters because -- and I mean this is a serious question, because they eat at McDonald's a lot? Is that where he's bringing them in?
 
PERRINE:  I think that even the coverage of him doing something non- traditional, a job that tended to skew younger, used to be McDonald's employees. Something that you haven't seen from one of the candidates. Yes, I think absolutely. That got into a lot of social media feeds for younger viewers and voters.
 
HILL:  So, we've got that moment, and then we have sort of, you know, more traditional Donald Trump on the campaign trail, also getting a lot of attention, his crude remarks about Arnold Palmer, his profanity laced comments about Harris and her time as vice president. That prompted her to respond. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  And what you see in my opponent, a former president of the United States, really is -- it demeans the office. And I have said, and I'm very clear about this, Donald Trump should never again stand behind the seal of the president of the United States. He has not earned the right. He's not earned the right. And that's why he's going to lose.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  Jamal, in terms of the voters that the Vice President needs to bring in, is that pushback enough when we're talking about such a tight race?
 
JAMAS SIMMONS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR AND FORMER COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR FOR VP HARRIS:  It is. You know, the vice president is going after a couple of different tranches of voters. On one hand, she's trying to hold on to some of the men, Democratic men, who might be, you know, interested in Donald Trump. Trump curious, as they say. And so, she's got to hold on to those voters and make sure that they show up. She's got to keep all of her base voters to come out.
 
On the other hand, she's also talking to these moderate and independent women, Republican women, who are showing up and saying to them -- they showed up in 2022, they showed up in these abortion referendums around the country and saying to them, hey, I'm one of you. Remember what the stakes are here and come back and vote for me because that's the way that we get reproductive rights.
 
We just saw the president today, President Biden today, the real president, right? We just saw that he's talking about having insurers cover birth control. This is one of the things that people in this country actually matter. It matters to real live people, men and women that we cover birth control by insurers.
 
At the other hand, you've got Donald Trump who's saying he wants to go after enemies from within and like attacking Nancy Pelosi. And he may want to unleash the U.S. military. Those are the contrast that the Harris campaign want to keep live because they want people to understand the stakes of the election. HILL:  Well, speaking of those comments actually, Senator J. D. Vance just a short time ago was asked about Trump's rhetoric, including the comments, he has doubled down multiple times on these, calling his political opponents the enemy from within, specifically name checking Nancy Pelosi, Adam Schiff. Here's how Vance responded.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. JD VANCE (R-OH), REPUBLICAN VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  Well, Donald Trump is unfiltered. I think this is one of the reasons why the campaign has gone well is because he's not doing a basement campaign strategy. We've obviously got some very important enemies to focus on overseas, but if people are burning down our cities, then of course we have to have a police response to that very basic violation of our right of public security.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In this case, he mentioned Adam Schiff and Nancy Pelosi by name in this case over the weekend.
 
VANCE:  Yes, Bill. Well, look, I mean, you have Adam Schiff and Nancy Pelosi who have been really part of weaponizing the Department of Justice against our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  I mean, you have candidates calling sitting lawmakers, you know, enemies at this point. This more vintage Trump, more unfiltered as J. D. Vance said, language that we're hearing from the former president. For those 3 percent of undecided voters, those moderate swing voters that are still out there, Erin, does that concern you, that language that he's using, is that really what's going to win them over?
 
PERRINE:  I don't think it's the strongest closing argument, but even told right now, all of the comments that Donald Trump has made in the past, you're still seeing Democrats across the country run on his policy platforms. You're seeing Tammy Baldwin, you're seeing Sherrod Brown, you're seeing John Tester, you're seeing Bob Casey in these key critical Senate races, talking about what they did to support Donald Trump's agenda and trying to run with him.
 
So, it's really hard for Democrats right now to try and continue to push a message that Donald Trump's rhetoric and language is so dangerous when at the same time you have Democrats running with Donald Trump's agenda and using his name in television ads in these key swing states.
 
HILL:  Rhetoric and policies of two different things. Important to point out -- Jaman, go ahead.
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
SIMMONS:  Yes, here's why it's not so difficult for that. Because, you know, it's always tough. I've been a critic of trying to look backwards too much, right, talking about January 6th, they're talking about what happened in -- during the summer -- you know, when -- of 2020 when the president was putting these forces on the street, these military forces to go after protesters. But here's what Donald Trump just did. He just made it not about the past, he made it about the future. He said, if you reelect me, this is going to be how I govern. I'm going to go after people using this.
 
And let me just say this as a caution to all the Republicans who are signing up for this, what makes anybody believe that he's only going to do this for Democrats? Donald Trump has already shown us that if a Republican crosses him, he will treat them just like any other enemy that he perceives that doesn't -- that he doesn't like. Because we saw it when he did that with Mike Pence. When Mike Pence was in the Capitol and they were saying, hey, Mike Pence, Donald Trump said so what?
 
So, if you're a Republican and you think, oh, I have to be with Donald Trump all the time, or perhaps he's going to unleash the FBI, the IRS, or even the U.S. military against me if I cross him.
 
HILL:  Erin Perrine, Jamal Simmons. good to have you both here this morning. Thank you.
 
Well, in the more than three weeks since Helene devastated Western North Carolina, schools have yet to reopen. Just ahead, I'm joined by the father of twin girls about the toll that this is taking on them ahead of that return to school.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
HILL:  It's been nearly a month since Hurricane Helene devastated much of Western North Carolina. And as that region works to rebuild, its largest school district is now preparing to open its doors for the first time since the storm hit. Buncombe County Schools will welcome students back this Friday. All 45 schools in the county now have power and they have internet, although notably while they have water, it is not drinkable water.
 
Adam Hallock's daughters attend Hawk Creek Elementary School in Asheville. They've been out of school since September 27th. Adam, it's good to have you with us. This is a big moment for your girls. I know you've been talking to them about what they miss the most. What have they told you over the last several weeks?
 
ADAM HALLOCK, DAUGHTERS ATTEND SCHOOL IN BUNCOMBE COUNTY:  Well, I think it shows how important socialization is for our kids. They've really missed their friends. I think that's been the biggest piece. We've luckily been able to kind of shield them from some of the more damaging aspects of the hurricane luckily, but they missed their friends. They missed the structure. They missed their teachers. They miss the routine, and I think we missed the routine, too.
 
I'm sure I speak for most parents here. The -- having a routine for our kids and keeping them in a safe environment is everything. And it really made that clear after Helene hit how important routine and structure for our children really is. HILL:  Yes, as a parent, I agree with you wholeheartedly on that point, the importance of those routines. Look, you're also a mental health professional. As you are living this, navigating it, you also have a unique perspective, right, as you're looking at not only how your family is going through it, but your friends, your neighbors, what are you noticing?
 
HALLOCK:  So, I guess unsurprisingly, I've noticed a lot of people coming together, meeting their neighbors, people you've never spoken to before, people you may not ever reach out to. I think that's been one of the silver linings in this whole situation is getting closer to the people that are in proximity to you, on your street, turning to the people that are literally closest to you in a time of need, I think that's been really heartwarming and shows how resilient we can be, you know, in the face of such a tragedy.
 
HILL:  Speaking of that resilience, you mentioned that you've, you know, been shielding your girls from probably some of the more serious, more concerning aspects of the aftermath of this storm. How do you think they're coping with it overall?
 
HALLOCK:  It's probably hard to say because children usually communicate their needs and their feelings in very different ways than we might as adults. So, I think the best we can do is maintain that consistency and try to have a brave face, give time and space to process on and talk about what has happened because we inevitably drive by some of the more damaging scenes in the area along the rivers and they see the piles of rubble and trash, and I'm sure their minds are racing with, you know, what happened and why did this happen?
 
But it's -- just take it in stride and try to be available for them and give them space too, maybe not be their best selves right now because I'm sure a lot of kids are not going to be their best selves until they can get back into a structured environment.
 
HILL:  Yes. And I'm sure they'll bring some of that home that they learn from their friends when they're reunited with them on Friday. I know the district is easing kids back in there. They're bringing in additional counselors on hand for students and staff, which is going to be so important.
 
I was struck by the fact that there will be water, but not potable water for the kids and the staff at school. Have you heard anything more about that from the district?
 
HALLOCK:  Not per se through the district, but through the city and the county, they've been very communicative, I'd say, with how they're handling the water situation and what logistics may need to be in place for the schools to safely open. So, you know, food can be prepared safely. Kids can go to the bathroom and wash their hands and just do all the hygiene things that are required to run a safe school environment.
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
So, I think as parents, we've all been as patient as we can be. And the school district has been amazing with communicating what logistical barriers stand in the way of reopening and we've definitely been a part of that communicative process the whole time, I feel.
 
HILL:  That's great to hear. Look, I know that Friday will be an important step forward in this recovery, which is not a sprint, of course. I know it's a long road ahead, but we really appreciate you taking the time to join us. Adam, thank you.
 
HALLOCK:  Thank you. Thanks for having me.
 
HILL:  Still to come here, Donald Trump making his way to North Carolina today. He's going to visit the town of Swannanoa, which was ravaged by Helene. We have more on the former president's visit both there and in other cities in the battleground State of North Carolina. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:00]