Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Intel Committee Chair: China Cyberattack Worst Telecom Hack In U.S. History; Trump Races Through Cabinet Picks Amid Questions About Vetting; Interview With Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA); Two Major Storms To Hit the U.S. On Thanksgiving Week; Surviving Thanksgiving With Relatives, Differing Political Opinions; Israeli PM Holds Meetings With Key Ministers Over Ceasefire Proposal; Former Sheriff Indicted In Judge's Killing To Appear In Court Monday; American Game Show Host Chuck Woolery Dies; A Look Into Ultraprocessed Foods And Their Effect On Health. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired November 24, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:34] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Sunday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
We begin with a warning from U.S. Senator Mark Warner, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, who says the U.S. is now witnessing the worst telecom hack in the nation's history. 
 
People briefed on the matter tell CNN that Chinese hackers have been tracking phone calls reading text messages and even listening to the conversations of well-connected Americans. The phone communications of senior figures in both the Republican and Democratic parties have been targeted, including Donald Trump and JD Vance. 
 
What's unclear is exactly what intelligence was gathered in the operation. "The New York Times" reports that officials, and I'm quoting now from "The Times", "have learned that the Chinese hackers got a nearly complete list of phone numbers the Justice Department monitors in its lawful intercept system, which places wiretaps on people suspected of committing crimes or spying usually after a warrant is issued.
 
In addition, the paper says even without listening in on phone calls, the hackers could gather metadata about phone numbers called length of the calls and even the rough location of the cell phones involved. 
 
The paper says top executives from Verizon, AT&amp;T, T-Mobile and others discussed the matter with national security officials at the White House on Friday. And we're learning an all-senators classified briefing has been scheduled for December 4th. 
 
So far, no comment from the Trump transition team on this latest hacking report. 
 
Meantime, the president-elect has mostly completed his list of cabinet secretaries and key leaders. Now comes the hard part. His picks need to get past skeptical senators whose lack of support already forced one nominee, Matt Gaetz, to withdraw. 
 
Today there is increased scrutiny over the vetting process for some of the controversial nominees. 
 
So far, Trump has not yet filed the paperwork necessary for the FBI to conduct background checks.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. AMY KLOBUCHAR (D-MN): We require these background checks of line DEA agents, Drug Enforcement Agents. We require of first-time prosecutors for the federal government. Why wouldn't we get these background checks for the most important job in the United States government? 
 
So if they keep delaying on these background checks, we will have a delay in getting these cabinet officials in. And I don't want to have a delay. I want to have the hearings. I want to make a decision on each one of them on the merits, as I've done in the past. And I can't do that without the background checks. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: CNN's Alayna Treene joins us now from near Trump's Florida home. Alayna, so what is the Trump team saying about background checks and their plans to get these picks confirmed.
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, there's a few things, Fred. 
 
When I talked to Donald Trump's transition team, they keep saying that they are planning to move forward with the official process for the transition including those MOUs and other steps that they need to take. But they are far behind what we've seen past presidents do at this point in the process. 
 
The other thing that they keep mentioning is that it's only been a couple of weeks now since Donald Trump was officially elected. Still though, of course we are hearing from many people involved in the government, current people who are tasked with these background checks saying they need to get a move on this. 
 
But that's what the Trump team is saying. They're saying that they will move forward with signing these MOUs and going through the process, and that the background checks will take place in a necessary time and soon again. But we have no answers for when that will actually be. 
 
As for the broader confirmation process for some of these more controversial nominees, look, there's a couple that I think Donald Trump's team or we know that Donald Trump's team was a bit caught off guard by Pete Hegseth, for example. 
 
He is someone that very quickly was selected by Donald Trump. He had called him down to Mar-a-Lago. They had met and then very quickly after that, Donald Trump had offered him the role. 
 
They did not have a lot of time to vet him and Hegseth in particular. And we're starting to see some of the fallout of that. They had not been initially aware of some of the allegations detailed in that police report that was circulating earlier this week. 
 <br>[14:04:53]
 
TREENE: However they are moving behind the scenes quickly to try and begin learning what they can do to give assurances to some skeptical Republican senators and others who they know they need to win over ultimately to get his different picks through the confirmation process. 
 
A couple other people in particular -- RFK Jr., someone that they've already recognized even before Donald Trump had announced that he was selecting him to lead the Department of Health and Human Services.
 
They Began to recognize some of the issues he could face such as his past comments on abortion and being supportive of abortion access. That is something that I know the transition team has discussed and that they are currently working on as they prepare RFK Jr. for the confirmation process. 
 
Tulsi Gabbard again there's a lot of issues with how people in the Senate are viewing some of her beliefs as it relates to the surveillance and intelligence community. And obviously, she is someone who would be running the office, or excuse me, be Donald Trump's main intelligence director. 
 
And so a lot of these they recognize they have a lot of work to do. They are staffing up these different nominees as well their own teams to really try to prepare themselves for when they ultimately face their confirmation hearings. 
 
I note as well that Donald Trump's team is planning to, we saw this with Hegseth earlier this week, but he's planning to with the other picks that he has, bring them to the Hill and have them meet individually with different senators who will be crucial to that process.
 
So there's a lot of talk happening behind the scenes about how to exactly prepare each of these different picks for that process, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. And Alayna, I know you said that they, the Trump team has said that there's a lot to do but those MOUs or those Memorandums of Understanding, they were due in September and October while he was a candidate. 
 
(CROSSTALKING)
 
WHITFIELD: And that's usually the way it is, so that when you win or if you win, then the screening process comes quickly.
 
So what's the response as to why they haven't met that deadline or if there's a concerted effort to avoid signing these documents. TREENE: Well look, Fred, again we don't have a clear answer from them. 
 
I mean -- and I've reported on this a couple of weeks ago as well because this is an issue like you mentioned, that has been a problem because it was due earlier this year, even before the election. 
 
But again, they continue to say that they are going to be doing that. I know a couple of weeks ago I had reported that one of the issues and one of the reasons that they said they weren't signing these MOUs and moving forward with the formal process at the start was because there were some things they needed to work out over ethics, the ethics agreement that is tied to that. 
 
Look, we don't have the answers that I think you're looking for. I think we're all asking these same questions, and we have to see how this plays out. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Alayna Treene, thanks so much. 
 
All right. We're joined now by Congressman John Garamendi. He is a Democrat from California and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. 
 
Congressman, great to see you.
 
REP. JOHN GARAMENDI (D-CA): Always a pleasure to be with you. 
 
WHITFIELD: So what are your concerns about these MOUs, Memorandums of Understanding that have yet to be signed so as to be able to get clearance to do thorough FBI, you know, background checks of all of these picks for the incoming president's cabinet.
 
GARAMENDI: Well, they're critically important. We really need to know and understand the background of these people. They're going to be in extremely important, sensitive positions that have everything to do with our national security. 
 
You think about the Department of Defense, our intelligence community, the Department of Justice. These are people that will either make or break our national security and our domestic security. 
 
And so we need to have that information. What is in their background? Much of it is being leaked out -- drip, drip, drip -- and it doesn't look good. 
 
So let's get on with it. Get that information out there. Hopefully there will be nothing -- well, there will be something wrong with some of these individuals. We know that already. There's likely to be more. 
 
And what they will do in office regardless of the background check, is of utmost concern. 
 
Take for example, Hegseth at the Department of Defense. He intends to turn that department upside down. He is going to put in policies that are going to make it very, very difficult to recruit women and minorities. And within the ranks, he is going to spread fear and great concern.
 
People are going to hunker down. They're not going to be willing to speak out about what should or should not be done with the military.
 
All that's very, very disruptive. 
 
You go over to the national intelligence. Oh, my goodness, I've worked with this woman and I am very, very concerned about where her loyalty lies. We've seen it in the campaign. We saw it before the campaign. And you go on from there. 
 <br>[14:09:48]
 
WHITFIELD: Tulsi Gabbard and Pete Hegseth, you're talking about. So what are your concerns about the questions during confirmation hearings that might be asked to dig a little deeper into some of the accusations, especially that of the sexually -- the sexual -- alleged sexual assault of a woman in 2017 as it pertains to Hegseth. 
 
I mean, he has said, well, I'm clear because there were no charges, but what are your concerns about the kinds of questions that would be asked if they even make it to that point during confirmation hearings? 
 
GARAMENDI: Well, start at the top of the pyramid. the next president of the United States has been found guilty of sexual misconduct in New York and has a long record of well, we know Access Hollywood and the like. 
 
And so apparently it's ok from his point of view to have those kind of allegations being made about, in this case, Hegseth. 
 
Beyond that, those used to be automatic disqualifications but we're definitely in a new era led by the soon-to-be president where these things are, well, they just happen. 
 
Well, I don't share that view. They don't just happen. And in my view, they are clear disqualifications. However, the American people saw it differently with the president. 
 
Now, when you get into the -- Tulsi Gabbard, she's made comments that are just not acceptable. And the problem here is going to be she has access to all of our nation's intelligence and, even more important, to our allies. 
 
And I would suspect our allies are going to take a look at her record regardless of what the Senate does, take a look at her record and say, I think we're going to hold on to our secrets. And so our intelligence community is likely to be seriously disrupted if she does take that job.
 
Now, there is one good fellow that I think the president has found, and that's Michael Waltz. I've worked with him for the last four years on the Readiness Subcommittee. I was chairman, he was ranking member. He was chairman, I'm ranking member. 
 
We have a very good working relationship. And I have confidence that he'll do very well at the National Security Council. 
 
So but boy, I'll tell you at the top of the heap here, you want to go into the Justice Department. Well, one down. Bondi has been very, very clear that she intends to see that department used for retribution and for revenge. 
 
She's been very, very clear in her comments on the campaign trail about how she will use, what she thinks needs to be done in the position as attorney general. She has incredible power to bring about investigations, harassments of all kinds and to use that department in what Trump has promised, retribution.
 
WHITFIELD: On Hegseth and Gabbard, Democratic Senator Tammy Duckworth seems to share similar views as you. She served in the U.S. army as a Blackhawk helicopter pilot in Iraq and is a Purple Heart recipient. 
 
And she weighed in this morning on CNN about both of those picks but especially about Hegseth's comments about women in combat. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. TAMMY DUCKWORTH (D-IL): women have made -- have made us more effective in fact. Our military could not go to war without its 223,000 women who serve in uniform. 
 
We would have an ineffective military that was not capable of deployment if we were to pull out all the women and say, you cannot be in combat.
 
For those women who are in roles such as the infantry or Navy Seals, those women have met the same standards as the men in order to be assigned to those positions. 
 
So again this shows that Mr. Hegseth is not qualified for the position because he doesn't understand, apparently even after having served that women are actually vitally important to an effective military.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Do you do you think Hegseth's journey is going to be similar to Matt Gaetz at this juncture.
 
GARAMENDI: It should be. It really should be. He's really not the person to lead that, to lead our U.S. Department of Defense and our national security. 
 
Go back and take a look at that picture. Tammy Duckworth is sitting there in a wheelchair. She lost both of her legs in combat. She was -- she's a decorated helicopter pilot. She was shot down. 
 
And for Hegseth to say that a woman cannot serve, he is flat-out dead wrong. This woman and many, many other women have served with great distinction, great success. 
 
And I just think it is disgusting. Disgusting what he is saying about women in the military. And that picture ought to be on everybody's mind when it comes down to his nomination and to the hearings. 
 <br>[14:14:45]
 
GARAMENDI: And for Tammy Duckworth to be there in her wheelchair having lost both of her legs in combat as a heroic pilot of a helicopter, and let him just sit there and fester.
 
WHITFIELD: Congressman John Garamendi, pleasure having you. Thank you so much.
 
GARAMENDI: My pleasure. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead this hour, the former Kentucky sheriff charged with gunning down a county judge in his own chambers will return to that very same courthouse for hearing tomorrow. 
 
Plus, 70 percent of American diets are made of ultra processed foods. What a new study is revealing about why we're so hooked on them and how they might impact our health.
 
And Thanksgiving dinner. Well, it should be more about turkey and stuffing and less about stress right? How to handle uncomfortable -- what could be uncomfortable conversations around the table this holiday. Some advice.
 <br>[14:15:41]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back.
 
Two significant storms are set to hit the U.S. this Thanksgiving week just as millions of Americans are set to hit the airports and the roads.
 
CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar is tracking the weather that could impact your holiday travel plans. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: It's quite the mixed bag from mother nature over the next several days. So if you have some travel plans and you can be flexible, you may need to be in the coming days. 
 
For today specifically, the eastern half of the country looks absolutely wonderful. No issues expected in those areas. 
 
It's in the west where we now have multiple systems in play that could end up causing some slowdowns, maybe even requiring you to use a little bit more patience, especially at some airports. 
 
When we fast forward into Monday, we've got two separate systems. The first one is going to be impacting portions of the Great Lakes, Midwest and down through the Ohio Valley, where you could have some rain and snow. Out to the West, several different systems bringing heavy rain along the coast of the entire West, basically from California up through Washington. Snow, which could be very heavy, especially in the Sierras, two to three feet is expected. 
 
And then more of that snow will continue to creep into portions of the Rockies as we head into Tuesday. 
 
That initial system also starting to spread eastward on Tuesday now bringing rain chances from New York all the way back down towards Louisiana. 
 
By -- late Tuesday into Wednesday, that first system now finally exits out over the open Atlantic. But it's this system here. This is the one that's going to continue to spread its way across the country as we go through the rest of the week. 
 
So by Wednesday now you're looking at the Midwest, much of the Mississippi Valley, looking to have some rain chances back into the mix. By Thursday, that begins to spread back into the mid-Atlantic, Ohio Valley, and yes even into portions of the northeast. 
 
So any local travel plans or last-minute travel plans you may have on Thanksgiving Day itself, the northeast stretching back all the way down to the Gulf Coast may have some rain and even some snow into the forecast. 
 
This begs the question, ok, what about the Macy's Day parade that will take place in the morning? Well those first couple of hours you may get lucky but it's the latter portion of the parade that's likely going to have some pretty higher chances of rainfall into the mix.
 
Temperature wise, still, on the chilly side, looking at maybe in the low to mid-40s at absolute best throughout the parade. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Allison Chinchar, thank you so much. 
 
Ok. So you've got traffic, bad weather, but also other ingredients that might be in the mix this Thanksgiving holiday. Could be some heated conversations and debates because this time around may be the first time many of us will be seeing relatives since the election. 
 
And let's face it, after a divisive campaign, this year's family gathering could get a little spicy, shall we say. 
 
Joining me right now to discuss ways to keep the peace and perhaps even save yourself, is psychologist and licensed therapist Jody Baumstein. Jody, great to see you. 
 
Oh my gosh. Saving oneself is going to be a key ingredient right because I think I've talked to a lot of people who are anticipating the family gatherings or going to visit with friends. And they're really bracing themselves for some tough conversations. And everyone wants to know what to do. So what's your best advice on how to navigate? Do you set the rules,
 
 set the parameters right off the bat or just kind of go with the flow.
 
JODY BAUMSTEIN, PSYCHOLOGIST AND LICENSED THERAPIST: It's going to be different for everyone. 
 
I think you first have to identify what is your intention and what's going to bring you the most peace. 
 
For some people, that's speaking up. maybe they never have, and it's something that's really important to them. For others, it might be, no, I don't want any talk about that. 
 
So first, you have to identify what it is that you're wanting. And then you can figure out what to do about it. 
 
WHITFIELD: So one of our producers kind of set the table at a couple of family gatherings. And one of the hosts said, here's one rule. There will be no talk of politics. 
 
What do you say about that idea of saying right off the bat, you know, you are welcome to my home, but there are rules. 
 
BAUMSTEIN: I think it's great. What we want to do is set expectations ahead of time because we want to get ahead of these kinds of things. 
 
Boundaries are really important, and a lot of times people hear that word and they think oh, you're keeping me away. 
 
But boundaries are actually about closeness. Its saying, I want to preserve our relationship but to do that, I need there to be some parameters. So setting the stage ahead of time is important. And how we talk about it matters. 
 
So I really want to have a great holiday with you and because of that, I want to give you a heads up. This is going to be off limits, and I really appreciate you respecting that. 
 <br>[14:24:51]
 
BAUMSTEIN: So what I'm doing there is I'm saying ahead of time what it is. I'm leading with this positive intention. I'm being really clear about where I stand.
 
WHITFIELD: Ok. Say there are no set boundaries, but instead it becomes a free-for-all conversation over dinner or just, you know, over the kitchen counter and it gets a little heated. Do you invite someone to leave or do you yourself remove yourself, find another room? What do you do?
 
BAUMSTEIN: So when you think about boundaries, a lot of times we want to say you need to do this. But we can't control someone else. We can only control our response.
 
So that really makes you have to think for a second, what do I do here? If your goal is to protect your peace and you don't want to be a part of that, remove yourself, right.
 
Where we get really stuck, though, is that -- 
 
WHITFIELD: Like, altogether the house? I'm out of here, or just another room? 
 
BAUMSTEIN: It could -- try. Try to remove yourself for a minute. if you need to Then take it to the next level. But what's really tricky here is when things get really emotionally heightened, we are not in our calm, rational brain, ok? 
 
And so a lot of times really all we need is actually 90 seconds. That's what science tells us, 90 seconds for emotions to kind of come and go. 
 
And so what that means is you can walk into the other room, take some deep breaths, and really collect yourself. And then what you're doing is you are able to respond, not react. 
 
When we just receive something in the moment, something triggering, and we do that quick automatic response, that's a reaction versus taking a minute, pausing, breathing, were able to come back down and respond. It's different. 
 
WHITFIELD: The holidays can always be high anxiety for a variety of reasons. But are you anticipating, are you hearing from some of your patients or people that they are bracing themselves because this year it's a little different.
 
BAUMSTEIN: Definitely. A lot of my sessions have been around this kind of stuff recently, and the reality is, I think a lot of people struggle with the fact that two things can be true at the same time. 
 
Our brains really aren't good at this. It wants us to think it's all good or bad. But if we can accept that two things can be true. I love this person and we have really different views, that's a peaceful place for us to get to.
 
And we talk about gratitude so much around the holidays, right. It's the same concept. If you think about it, our brains are constantly looking for evidence for our beliefs. 
 
So if I have a belief that you always do this to me, I'm always going to find that confirmation. I'm always going to see that you always hurt me in some way.
 
But if I can open my brain to the fact that this is a story I'm telling myself, it's not a fact. Our thoughts aren't facts. We can actually find more peace in this gray (ph) when we accept both of these things can be true. I love you and we have different expectations or beliefs, and that's ok. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Everybody wants to get together for the holidays. They want to talk, they want to eat and maybe they're going to have to talk by way of food and just eat this go-around right to help keep the peace. WHITFIELD: All right. All great advice. I can see so many of those scenarios in every household. And you've got a great bit of advice and answer for all of those scenarios. 
 
Jody Baumstein, thank you so much. Appreciate it. And Happy Thanksgiving. 
 
BAUMSTEIN: You as well. Thanks for having me.
 
WHITFIELD: Let's all keep the peace.
 
And join CNN for the ultimate Thanksgiving morning watch party, where there'll be lots of peace and joy and happiness featuring celebrity appearances and a live view of parades across the country. 
 
John Berman and Erica Hill host "THANKSGIVING IN AMERICA". Starts Thanksgiving day at 8:00 a.m. right here on CNN and streaming on Max.
 
All right. 
 
Coming up. Right now, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is holding meetings on a possible ceasefire proposal with Hezbollah. We're live in Jerusalem next. 
 <br>[14:28:38]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:33:02]
 
WHITFIELD:  At this hour, the Israeli prime minister is holding critical consultations with his ministers over a possible ceasefire in Israel's war with Iran-backed Hezbollah. A U.S. proposal aims to reach a 60-day pause in the fighting inside Lebanon. 
 
CNN's senior international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson, is joining me right now. 
 
So, Nic, is this a meeting to accept or reject the U.S. proposal question? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  That's the million dollar question, isn't it? We don't know. The fact that there is a meeting, though, I think is indicative that there is some sort of momentum here, that there is something to discuss. Certainly this cabinet of ministers, security chiefs wouldn't be gathering if there was no advancement, nothing to be had, nothing to be said. 
 
So that's I think that's on the one side, a positive. So you try to read some of the mood music of the war to, to figure out what's happening.
 
Well, over this weekend, 84 Lebanese people have been killed through Israeli strikes, 29 on a massive no notice strike, demolishing a building right in the center of Beirut. So, so, the conflict is, is at a very, very high tempo and its at a
 
 high tempo coming back the other way, six hours ago, 160 missiles have been fired by Hezbollah into Israel, some of them reaching as far as Tel Aviv. The sirens have been going off in Tel Aviv in the past hour or so. So again the tempo looks up and you might think okay, this means were not getting closer to a ceasefire.
 
But go back and look at the 2006 war between Israel and Hezbollah. What happened then, in the few days before there was a ceasefire agreement, the tempo, the rocket fire, et cetera. The airstrikes, they all went up. And the fact that Amos Hochstein has been here over the past week is indicative that there is momentum here. We've heard as well from the leading figure in Hezbollah saying that they're willing to consider a ceasefire. 
 <br>[14:35:01]
 
They'll keep fighting, but they're willing to consider it. So the details of this meeting, we just don't know about right now. But I think there's an indication that we're heading in the right direction. But of course, we've been in this place in the war with Hezbollah and the war in Gaza before, and a lot really depends precisely on what the prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu, is thinking, and calculating.
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Nic Robertson, keep us posted, as you learn more. 
 
All right. Still ahead, he is charged with killing a district judge in his own chambers. What this former sheriff is facing when he returns to the courthouse for a hearing tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:40:20]
 
WHITFIELD:  In rural Kentucky, a former sheriff turned jail inmate is due in court Monday. This after a grand jury indicted Sheriff Shawn Stines with killing -- with the killing of a district judge at point blank range inside the judge's office. And what we're about to show you is graphic. 
 
You're looking at surveillance footage from the alleged shooting. The video was made public during a preliminary court hearing for Stines. The motive for the shooting is still unclear. 
 
CNN's Gloria Pazmino is joining us with the latest. 
 
Gloria, what's the court hearing about? The police said anything more about the kind of evidence that they have against the ex-sheriff? 
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, Fred, the case was shocking when it happened. And then once we saw that video during that initial court appearance, it was even more shocking because as you said, the sheriff walked right into the judge's chambers and opened fire. 
 
This happened in a small community in Kentucky. All of these law enforcement individuals are known to each other. In fact, the sheriff and the judge know each other. And we know from our reporting that the two had shared lunch earlier that day. Tomorrow, we are expecting to see Stines back in this same courthouse where the shooting took place. He wasn't able to appear there initially after he turned himself over after the shooting, because the place had to be shut down because it was the scene of a crime. 
 
So he will be returning to this courthouse to be arraigned on murder charges for killing a public official. And that's after a grand jury decided to indict him and was presented with evidence to do exactly that, including that surveillance video. 
 
Another thing that we have learned from this video, and according to detectives, is that there is evidence that when the sheriff walked into the office of the judge he tried to call his daughter on his phone and then he tried to do the same thing on the judge's phone. We don't know yet exactly what that was about or why that happened, but it was shortly after Stines tried to make that phone call that he opened fire. 
 
Now, we are expecting to hear more details about the charges tomorrow when he appears, and so far while his defense attorneys have not denied that he shot the judge, they did say that he was experiencing an extreme emotional disturbance at the time. But motive here, Fred, continues to be a bit of a mystery. 
 
WHITFIELD:  And so, is this a death sentence type of case?
 
PAZMINO:  Well, prosecutors certainly have the option of calling for the death penalty in this case. We will see what happens both at the arraignment tomorrow and once the case gets underway, whether or not they are going to seek that level of charges of -- of in a sentencing here in this case. 
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Gloria Pazmino, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Next, game show legend Chuck Woolery has died. A look back at his remarkable career.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:48:17]
 
WHITFIELD:  The college football playoff picture is getting a little clearer after another chaotic Saturday. 
 
Here's CNN's Carolyn Manno.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Fredricka, this is turning out to be the perfect year for the brand new 12-team playoff. 
 
More schools, more chances to get in. And two of those schools who are in contention, 21st ranked Arizona State and 14th ranked BYU. Arizona State up five with the ball in the final minute. But on fourth down with seven seconds left, quarterback Sam Leavitt launches the ball out of play to try and run out. 
 
The rest of the time Sun Devil students rushing the field to celebrate. Stadium crew starts tearing down the goal posts, but after review, the officials determined that the ball touched a fan in the crowd with one second left. So instead of game over, it is BYU ball, meaning everybody has to get off of the field. 
 
And when they finally did, this is what happened. BYU heaving the ball towards the end zone, but the receiver got tackled two yards short of the score. So here comes the students again, Arizona State holding on 28-23. 
 
Seventh ranked Alabama also on the losing end of things. The Tide held to just a field goal on the road at Oklahoma 24-3, the final. And after an impressive last couple of weeks, Bama could not move the ball at all. Jalen Milroe under pressure all night. They couldn't stop the run either. So Alabama losing three games for the first time since 2010, putting them in serious jeopardy if not eliminating them from the playoff race. 
 
Florida upset number nine Ole Miss at the swamp. Freshman quarterback DJ Lagway went ten of 17 passing for 180 yards and two touchdowns to improve to four and one as a starter. Montrell Johnson scoring the go ahead nine yard touchdown with just under eight seconds left, and the defense held on after that, picking off Ole Miss quarterback Jaxson Dart on the final two drives to win and clinch a bowl game for the Gators, while also spoiling the playoff hopes of Ole Miss. 
 <br>[14:50:07]
 
Colorado's hopes of playing for the Big 12 title taking a big blow courtesy of Kansas, who beat a ranked opponent for the third straight week. Jayhawks running back Devin Neal, gashing Colorado's defense for 280 total yards and four touchdowns in the 37-21 win.
 
At Yankee Stadium last night, Notre Dame tasked with taking down one of the most surprising teams in college football this season, 19th ranked Army. But the Irish did just that, thanks in part to a big running night and some shut down defense. They hand Army their first loss of the season, 49-14, in the Bronx, the final there.
 
And we end with the much hyped battle between fifth ranked Indiana and number two Ohio State. The Hoosiers coming in 10-0 for the first time in school history. But facing a ranked opponent for the first time this season, they were on the road in front of more than 100,000 fans, no less. And even though they hung in there for a half, the ending was familiar in this matchup.
 
Ohio State taking advantage of a fumbled punt snap late in the second quarter and then returning a punt 79 yards for a touchdown in the third. The Buckeyes get the win 38-15.
 
And after the game, Indiana coach Curt Cignetti was asked if he thought his team still belonged in the 12-team field. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CURT CIGNETTI, INDIANA HEAD COACH:  Is that a serious question? I'm not even going to answer that one. The answer is so obvious.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
REPORTER:  Thanks, Coach.
 
CIGNETTI:  Thanks, guys. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO:  And, Fredericka, I have a feeling we're going to be hearing that from plenty of other coaches over the next couple of weeks before this 12-team playoff field is officially set on December 8th, after the conference championships. 
 
Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Tough breaks, Carolyn Manno, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Chuck Woolery, the smooth talking TV personality, has died. He hosted the game shows "Wheel of Fortune", "Scrabble", but he's best known for his 11-year run on "Love Connection", where he coined this iconic catchphrase here. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHUCK WOOLERY, GAME SHOW HOST:  Everything that happened on that date, we'll do it in two and two, right back up.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD:  His wit and warmth earned him legions of fans and a spot in the Television Game Show Hall of Fame. 
 
Woolery briefly even had his own talk show and reality show. Later in life, he invited controversy with his hard line conservative views on his podcast "Blunt Force Truth". Chuck Woolery was 83. 
 
All right. And if you can't seem to set down those salty, sugary packaged snacks, it's not your fault. Not totally. It's the food. What a groundbreaking study is revealing about ultra processed foods.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:57:27]
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Sodas, yogurts and cereals can represent up to 70 percent of a typical American diet. Well, now researchers are linking ultra processed foods to poor health. 
 
CNN's Meg Tirrell has more. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sam Rosada (ph) has been living in this hospital room at the National Institutes of Health for two weeks.
 
TIRRELL:  Do you have like wearables on like tracking everything?
 
SAM ROSADA, CLINICAL TRIAL PARTICIPANT:  Yes. So, I do have a couple of these sensors.
 
TIRRELL:  He's not sick. He's a participant in a clinical trial. One of the first of its kind, measuring his movement, his blood, his gut microbiome, even the air he breathes, all to try to better understand how our health is affected by ultra-processed foods.
 
Oh, I think your food's coming in.
 
We saw the kind of food he got and eggs and spinach and yogurt, but we don't know that could be processed. It could be unprocessed. That's part of the trial.
 
Ultra-processed foods contain additives and ingredients you wouldn't find in your own kitchen. They were shown in the previous NIH study to drive overeating and weight gain, according to researcher Dr. Kevin Hall.
 
Are ultra-processed foods just junk foods?
 
DR. KEVIN HALL, SENIOR INVESTIGATOR, NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH: What we often think of as junk foods probably captures a big chunk of the ultra-processed foods kind of category. But there's a lot of things that people would be surprised that are in the ultra-processed foods category and, you know, could potentially be healthy for you. 
 
So, things like whole grain breads that you might buy from the supermarket. Most of those are considered ultra-processed because of some of the additives and preservatives that are in there as well as how they're manufactured. There's a lot of debate about whether or not all ultra-processed foods are bad for you.
 
TIRRELL:  And that's what this trial is trying to find out.
 
HALL:  What are the mechanisms? What is it about this category of foods that is driving people to over consume calories?
 
TIRRELL:  Dr. Hall's team has two ideas about what might be causing people to overeat some ultra-processed foods, their energy density or how many calories are in each gram of food and their hyper palatability, when foods contain just the right combinations of salt, sugar, fat, and carbs to make us not want to stop eating them.
 
This is where they prepare all of the food, and they don't just prepare it, they weigh it before it goes up, and when it comes back after the participant has eaten. Each day, participants in the trial are offered a total of 6,000 calories and researchers measure how much they choose to eat. The trial is a month long and each week has a different diet, minimally processed or different kinds of ultra-processed.
 
Sam was in an ultra-processed week during our visit, but one with foods Dr. Hall doesn't expect will drive him to overeat.
 
How is that ultra-processed?
 
SARA TURNER, CLINICAL RESEARCH DIETITIAN, NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH:  It's all based on the ingredients.