Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel Official: War Cabinet Determined To Respond To Iran; Jury Selection In Hush Money Trial Resumes In Coming Hours; Police: Attack On Bishop During Sermon A "Terrorist" Act. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired April 16, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:27]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Ahead here on CNN Newsroom.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LT. GEN. HERZI HALEVI, CHIEF OF STAFF, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES: Iran will face the consequences for its actions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: But how and when, Israel's war cabinet still divided over response to the first ever direct attack by Iran on the Jewish state.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I can't go to my son's graduation, well then, I can't go to the United States Supreme Court.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: A defended in a New York criminal trial complaints about the rules which apply equally to anyone and everyone.
 
And coral reefs around the world bleaching at an unprecedented rate as ocean temperatures break record highs month after month after month.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN Newsroom with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: Israel is under growing international pressure to show restraint in how it responds to Iran's weekend attack. Hundreds of missiles and drones fired directly at Israel from inside Iran, an escalation without precedent in their long running proxy war.
 
Right now, the Israeli war cabinet appears to be divided over what comes next. A meeting on Monday, the second time in as many days ended without any announcement. According to an Israeli official, both diplomatic and military options are on the table. At the same time Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is urging the world to stand united, gets what he calls Iranian aggression, which he said it was a threat to Israel, the entire Middle East as well as world peace.
 
In Tehran, a senior military adviser has warned there will be no restraint if an enemy crosses so called red lines. Weekend, drone and missile strike, according to Iranian officials, was necessary and proportionate, described as an act of self-defense. And part of the difficult calculation for Israel in responding to that attack is the risk of further escalation by Iran. Still the head of Israel's military is warning it's not a matter of if, but when.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HALEVI: We are closely assessing the situation. We remain at our highest level of readiness. Iran will face the consequences for its actions. We will choose our response accordingly.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The last direct attack on Israel was 33 years ago, but Iraq Saddam Hussein fired 42 Scud missiles many aimed directly at Tel Aviv. Well, the only victim from Iran's direct strike appears to be a seven- year-old girl. Many in Israel fear direct attacks if left unanswered will be the new normal. More now from CNN's international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): In heated debate Israel's war cabinet facing their toughest decision since October 7th. How to respond to Iran's unprecedented air assault over the weekend? Differences over how and when not if dividing them looking to allies for help.
 
BENNY GANTZ, ISRAELI WAR CABINET MINISTER: Faced with the threat of Iran, we will build regional coalition and exact a price from Iran in a way and at a time that suits us.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): At stake escalation of already inflamed tensions, even regional war, the U.S. urging restraint and recusing itself from retaliation.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: We have been coordinating a diplomatic response to seek to prevent escalation.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): According to Israeli officials, Iran launched more than 350 drones, cruise and ballistic missiles late Saturday early Sunday, 60 tons of explosives, most intercepted by Israel and allies.
 
In a paradigm shift of decades of proxy shadow war with Israel, Iran claiming it as established deterrence following Israel's deadly attacks on its Damascus consulate two weeks ago, and warning Israel and the U.S. against retaliation.
 
NASSER KANAANI, IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): Instead of making accusations, the western countries should appreciate the semi republic of humans restraint and responsible actions towards the stability and safety in the region.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Even Israel's putative ally, Jordan, which helped bring down some Iranian missiles, Sunday, is wary of Israel's next move.
 
AYMAN SAFADI, JORDANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: Israeli prime minister have always wanted to invoke some sort of confrontation with Iran. Now as the international pressure on Israel to stop the aggression Gaza continues. Invoking a fight with Iran is something that we believe he thinks could dilute that pressure.
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): In Gaza after months of mounting international pressure, Israel appearing to delay plans for an offensive in the densely populated southern city of Rafah and established aid deliveries directly into the malnourished north.
 
For now, how hard to hit back at Iran and not blow up relations with allies dominating Israel's political agenda.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): And then perhaps the strongest indication that the clock is ticking down to a decision, Israel's Army Chief of Staff, Herzi Halevi, told troops that they are thinking ahead and there will be a response to Iran's attack.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
VAUSE: White House officials are reportedly concerned that Israel's response to Iran could complicate and cause further delay in hostage negotiations with Hamas. CNN's Paula Hancocks is live this hour in Abu Dhabi. And Paula, what do we know right now about the status of those negotiations?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, John, those negotiations appear to have hit a wall, frankly, at this point. One Israeli source close to these negotiations telling CNN that Hamas has now reduced significantly the number of hostages that they are willing to release in the first phase of this deal. They had been talking about a three phase deal. Within the first phase, the parameters were around 40 hostages, the women, the children, the elderly, the sick, the wounded, in return, for around 700 Palestinian prisoners that we're now hearing from this source that Hamas is saying, it only has 20.
 
In fact, fewer than 20 hostages, that it will be able to release and they are also asking for more Palestinian prisoners in return and many more, that are serving life sentences. Now the source saying that this is a significant step backwards. And it's being seen by Israel as a sign that Yahya Sinwar, the Hamas leader in Gaza doesn't want to deal. And they are looking to exploit a perceived gap in the positions between the U.S. and Israel at this point.
 
Now, we've also heard from a senior Biden administration official recently who did say that Hamas had told mediators that they simply don't have 40 hostages within those parameters that are still alive. So what the U.S. was expecting was that they would make up those numbers either with younger men, or with the remains of some of those who have lost their lives.
 
So at this point, it really does seem a significant sticking point within these negotiations. Hamas has also said that they don't believe Israel is addressing its concerns. They want a full withdrawal. They want Palestinians to be able to go back to their homes in the north of Gaza. And they want to have a permanent ceasefire, something Israel is just not willing to give. John?
 
VAUSE: Also this looming offensive on Rafah, the timing of course, it's very complicated due to the hostage negotiations. Where does that stand right now?
 
HANCOCKS: So as we understand it from two Israeli sources on this one, Israel was due to start this operation, this ground offensive in Rafah in the south of Gaza this week. That has now we understand been put on hold because of these attacks by Iran over the weekend. So that is what is complicated this issue. We understand from these sources that Israel was about to start dropping leaflets into certain parts of Rafah telling them to evacuate the area.
 
It's unclear where they would evacuate to, of course, at this point. But we also understand from one Israeli source that this great offensive will go ahead as far as the military is concerned and the government is concerned. It's just not certain on the timing or the scope at this point. And remember, there's up to 1.5 million Palestinians who are currently sheltering in Rafah itself. This is more than half the population. Many of them have been displaced once, twice, even three times, in some cases, many more, because they have been moved from the north.
 
So what we have seen in recent days is some people trying to go back to their homes, or what's left of their homes in northern Gaza. But they have been repelled by Israel. Israel saying that the North is still a dangerous conflict zone, and they're simply not able to get to that area. So that is on hold as well. And of course, it's a consideration when they're talking about what to do in response to Iran. They also have to think about what they're going to do in Gaza in tandem with that. John?
 
VAUSE: Paula, thank you. Paula Hancocks in Abu Dhabi, appreciate your time.
 
We'll probably go to California Golden Gate Bridge was brought to a standstill for hours on Monday by protesters opposed to the war in Gaza, 28 people were arrested, some that chained themselves together. Police now have described the demonstration is very peaceful. Similar protests took place Monday and two other cities in California, so with Chicago, New York and Washington.
 <br>[01:10:05]
 
Despite multiple appeals based on very dubious legal arguments for a delay or a dismissal despite all the venom and vitriol directed at the judge and court workers, Donald Trump's hush money payments to a porn star trial is now underway in New York. Jury selection began Monday and is required by law. The first ever former president to face trial on criminal charges was there.
 
The presumptive Republican presidential nominee has been charged with 34 felonies for falsifying business records related to a 2016 payment to Stormy Daniels, a former adult film star. On his first day -- on this first day, rather, jury selection was slow going, none were chosen, with dozens of potential jurors sent home after admitting they could not be fair and impartial. More details now from CNN's Paula Reid.
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: And day one of jury selection in this case has concluded with not one single jurors selected to be on that panel of 12 with a course of six additional alternates. Now this is a process that takes some time, and it took extra time on Monday because the judge first needed to contemplate some additional motions and questions about evidence that would eventually be introduced at trial. But one of the most significant moments on Monday was when the jurors were asked if any of them could not be impartial in this case.
 
More than half of the 96 potential jurors said they could not in fact, be impartial. And they were all dismissed. Now this is something that the Trump team has really been focused on. They fought and won for that statistic, that number should be made public and not to have all of the jurors who are dismissed for cause lumped into one group. Why are they so interested in that number? Well, they're interested in that number for a possible appeal. They're hoping that if there is a conviction here, they can appeal this and try to overturn it sort of through debt by 1,000 cuts by raising every issue that they see over the course of jury selection and this trial.
 
Now, as Trump left the court on Monday, it was interesting, even though so much happened over the course of the day, he was focused on the fact that as a criminal defendant, he is required to be inside the court throughout these proceedings unless he can get a waiver. And he suggested repeatedly that the judge said he couldn't attend as his son Barron's high school graduation. Well, the judge actually hasn't ruled on that question.
 
But the judge did deny a request for Trump to be able to attend next week's Supreme Court arguments on presidential immunity. The judge noting there is no requirement for Trump to be at the high court, but he is as a criminal defendant in Manhattan required to be here for every day of this case.
 
Paula Reid, CNN, New York.
 
VAUSE: Norm Eisen is a CNN legal analyst. He served as Special Counsel in the first of two impeachment trials of former President Donald Trump. He was the ethics czar in the Obama White House as well. Ambassador Eisen. Welcome back. Good to see you.
 
NORM EISEN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Thank you, John. Nice to be with you. VAUSE: OK, so the twice , four times criminally indicted Republican presidential presumptive nominee seem a little annoyed, perhaps irritated by being treated like every other person facing criminal charges. Here's part of a rant from the defendant.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: We have a real problem with this judge and we have a real problem with a lot of things having to do with this trial, including the D.A., because you go right outside the people that make Mufti killed all day long. And I can't go to my son's graduation, well then, I can't go to the United States Supreme Court. This is about election interference. That's all it's about. Thank you very much.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Donald Trump seems to be so confused here how the different branches of the criminal justice system works. He also seems confused about where he is legally obliged to actually be. In your opinion, though, how much of this is being driven not just by politics, but by Trump's belief that he is above the law.
 
EISEN: John, I was in the courthouse today, and one of the most telling moments was when they were interviewing one of the first jurors to have the potential to serve on this. And in answer to one question, he said, I believe no one is above the law, not if you're a current president, a former president or a plumber.
 
And Donald Trump does not seem to grasp this fundamental reality that we're a nation of laws, not of men. Everyone is subject to the Constitution and laws. And if you're a criminal defendant, it doesn't matter what your resume says. You've got to be in court in the criminal case, not at the United States Supreme Court, not at family events, but facing justice. And that's where Donald Trump finds himself. He doesn't like it too much, John.
 
VAUSE: Yes. And you mentioned this, this is a set of jury selection. Under normal circumstances, that could be a lengthy process. This is anything but normal. So what's your assessment on how long this could take before an impartial jury is actually seated?
 
EISEN: Well, it was slow today. We spent the morning arguing legal and evidentiary issues relating to the trial and then the afternoon we started jury selection. But the judge has said he wants to speed it up. He's going to add extra days to the calendar if he has to. So I think you're going to see a couple of weeks of jury selection.
 <br>[01:15:20]
 
And about two weeks from today, perhaps a little more than that the jury will be seated, will have opening statements. There's also several days of Passover holiday that the judge is going to take off as a courtesy to lawyers or jurors who may have a holiday conflict that'll slow things a bit.
 
VAUSE: The judge also ruled on the admissibility of that now infamous Access Hollywood tape. So anyone who may have been in a deep coma at the end of 2016. Here's a quick reminder.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: And when you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything.
 
BUSH: Whatever you want.
 
TRUMP: Grab them by the --. You can do anything.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: If anybody's that ruling, by the judge seemed like a split decision. The tape itself cannot be played to jurors, but prosecutors could quote from the transcript. So explain why that ruling, and why prosecutors want to use it in the first place?
 
EISEN: John, under New York law, there's a case Molineux that requires a balancing of the value of a piece of evidence, the proof that it offers against the unfair harm the prejudice that it might do to a defendant. Here, the Access Hollywood tape is very important because the prosecutor's theory of the case is election interference that Donald Trump kept information from voters by paying hush money at the end of the 2016 election in order to grasp power.
 
By the way, that's a very similar theory to the 2020 election interference cases. So you need the tape to establish Donald Trump's situation, his desperation after that tape came out. But if you play the actual sound, jurors might hold an unfair grudge against the former president. So the judge says I'll let you introduce the transcripts the words so you can establish the context, but not the tape to prejudicial.
 
VAUSE: Well, despite Trump's other legal trials and issues, this criminal trial, we got to remember, first time, a former president has appeared in court on criminal charges. And according to reporting from Maggie Haberman at the New York Times, Mr. Trump appears to nod off a few times, his mouth going slack and his head drooping onto his chest. The former presidents lead lawyer, Todd Blanche, passed him notes for several minutes before Mr. Trump appeared to jolt awake and notice them.
 
Very low energy, Donald Trump, I guess. The grand scheme of things not a huge deal, but in some ways, it shows how Trump is lucky that cameras are not allowed in the courtroom.
 
EISEN: It is hot in those courtrooms. The air gets a little close. But Donald Trump ought to be on the edge of his seat, because there's a powerful case against him and a substantial risk of conviction. And if so, you can't rule out the possibility of a jail term. He had better wake up, John.
 
VAUSE: It is a serious case. And Norm Eisen as always, it is great to have you with us, really appreciate it.
 
EISEN: Thanks. VAUSE: Still to come, a stabbing at a Sydney church caught on Livestream during a sermon that was followed by clashes outside the church. And the very latest on that investigation in a moment.
 
Also details on the sentencing of the movie "Rust" armorer for her role in the fatal shooting of a cinematographer on set.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:20:45]
 
VAUSE: Just days after a stabbing spree at a shopping mall in Sydney, police are investigating another stabbing attack in the city, this time at a church. Churches livestream show the attacker approaching the pulpit stabbing the bishop as he was delivering a sermon. Both the bishop and parish priests were injured but are expected to recover.
 
Parishioners were able to restrain the attacker until police arrived. He say he's 16 years old and not on any terror watch list. CNN's Anna Coren following all these developments live for us now in Hong Kong. Yes, I got -- obviously there's very concerned now about what's happening in Sydney with knives and these recent attacks.
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, John, these two stabbing attacks in a matter of days, they're completely unrelated. However, it's certainly causing a great deal of concern and unease in Sydney but also for many Australians. This most recent one that you showed occurred in weekly the some of weekly in Western Sydney overnight, when a 16-year-old stabbed a bishop in the face with a knife at this Syrian Orthodox Church. The bishop's sermon at Christ The Good Shepherd Church was being livestreamed as you mentioned that it was all caught on camera.
 
Now, people in the church they immediately race forward and a priest who was there he tried to intervene. He was also injured. The teenager he was tackled to the ground and then there is this video that shows him, John, smiling at the camera as one of the parishioners is condemning him.
 
Police have said that this was an act of religious motivated extremism that has been labeled a terror incident. And now it's believed the attacker said something to the bishop. Police are yet to confirm what he said before repeatedly stabbing him. Now, what happens next, John, is simply alarming. Hundreds of people gathered outside the church. And then riots broke out as the crowd began attacking the police who had been called to the scene.
 
People were throwing bricks, chunks of concrete, fence palings anything they could get their hands on. Police and paramedics were holed up inside the church for something like three and a half hours, 20 police vehicles were damaged, 30 people outside the church had to be treated for injuries. The riot squad, tactical operations unit had to be called in.
 
Look, it is worth noting, John, that Western Sydney and the surrounding areas, it is known for its gang violence. So we don't know the crowd that descended on this church outside the church. Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, he spoke this morning. He condemned the attack and the ensuing violence on the police. Let's take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTHONY ALBANESE, AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTER: This is a disturbing incident. There is no place for violence in our community. There is no place for violent extremism. We are a peace loving nation. This is a time to unite not divide as a community and as a country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: And, John, as we know, it comes just days after a 40-year-old man went on a stabbing rampage inside Westfield Shopping Center at Bondi Junction in Sydney. The attacker who suffered from decades of mental illness, he killed five women and a male security guard. Six others remain in hospital including a nine-month-old baby that remains in a serious condition. Her 38-year-old mother was stabbed to death.
 
We are still looking at those pictures from overnight. But I'm referring to the attack at Westfield Shopping Center on a Saturday afternoon. Now, the motive of that attacker remains unknown. He was shot dead by a very brave female police officer who pursued him by herself. She didn't have any blackout -- backup. However, authorities believe that this man, 40-year-old man suffering mental illness that he was targeting women, John.
 
VAUSE: Anna, thank you. Anna Coren for the very latest there on those two investigations ongoing in Sydney, thank you.
 
Well, the armorer who worked on the film "Rust" has been sentenced to 18 months in prison for her role in the onset shooting of the movie cinematographer. Hannah Gutierrez-Reed was found guilty last month with involuntary manslaughter, after Halyna Hutchins was killed by live round fired from a prop gun which was held by Alec Baldwin at the time. CNN's Josh Campbell has details.
 <br>[01:25:08]
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: A judge in the state of New Mexico has imposed the maximum sentence possible, 18 months in prison for Hannah Gutierrez-Reed. She was the armor on the set of the movie "Rust." Back in 2021, when a gun big held by actor Alec Baldwin went off killing the film cinematographer, Halyna Hutchins. Now it was an emotional day in court Monday as those who knew Hutchins addressed the judge.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEN WHITE, FRIEND OF HALYNA HUTCHINS: There's one absolute truth here, if Ms. Gutierrez-Reed properly done her job, Halyna would still be alive in Andros would still have his mother.
 
Your Honor, I beg you to impose the maximum sentence. It will not be and could never be enough of a punishment for the willful negligence committed by the defendant that she needs to be held accountable for taking Halyna's life and for destroying so many others.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMPBELL: Now, Gutierrez-Reed had been convicted of involuntary manslaughter and just before announcing her decision, the judge admonish Gutierrez-Reed for showing no signs of remorse for her actions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARY MARLOWE SOMMER, NEW MEXICO DISTRICT COURT JUDGE: Leaving you in the detention center would be giving you a pass you do not deserve. I did not hear you take accountability in your allocution. You said you were sorry. You were sorry, but not you are sorry for what you did. You were the armorer, the one that stood between a safe weapon and a weapon that could kill someone. You alone turned a safe weapon into a lethal weapon. But for you Ms. Hutchins would be alive, a husband would have his partner and a little boy will have his mother.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMPBELL: Now CNN has reached out to Gutierrez-Reed's attorney for a comment, actor Alec Baldwin himself faces a very similar charge of involuntary manslaughter. He has pleaded not guilty. His trial is set to start in July.
 
Josh Campbell, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
VAUSE: Aircraft manufacturer, Boeing, defending its safety record ahead of a whistleblowers appearance before U.S. senators. A Boeing engineer alleges cuts or shortcuts were taken during the production of the Dreamliner jet. Those shortcuts he says could reduce the lifespan of the aircraft.
 
On Monday, Boeing executives said they wouldn't comment directly on those allegations. The company though has faced questions about safety and quality after a number of recent midair scares in the U.S.
 
Economic growth was stronger than expected in China's just released first quarter GDP numbers up 5.3 percent compared to a year ago. CNN's Kristie Lu Stout live for us in Hong Kong to break down the numbers. So what are they telling us about the state of the health of China's economy?
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, we got to break this down because you know, on the face of it, it looks really positive. China's GDP jumped 5.3 percent of the first quarter compared to a year ago that is stronger than expected mainly thanks to growth in one area in high tech manufacturing, especially products like solar panels, 3D printers and EV charging stations. And this is a strategy that has drawn the ire of other nations like the U.S. that have warned China of overcapacity, over manufacturing and dumping.
 
Now in China, in regards to its economy, its manufacturing that's doing the heavy lifting here, but there are other very significant economic challenges. We spoke to Louise Liu earlier she is the China economist at Oxford Economics. And this is how she broke it down for us. She said this, quote, economic momentum gains pace on a sequential basis in Q1, supported by broad manufacturing outperformance festivities boosted household spending, she's referring to the Lunar New Year and the feedthrough of easy policy settings and investments. However, standalone March activity indicators suggest weakness coming through the post Lunar New Year, unquote.
 
Well, China has been struggling to bounce back and to commit to a sustainable economic recovery after that protracted post pandemic slump. It faces quite a number of challenges, including weak consumer spending, high youth unemployment, deflation and also mounting local government debt. But above all, the ongoing property slump, this is the one single major drag on China's economy and it is still there.
 
Now, earlier this year, China set that bold growth target of around 5 percent this year, President Xi Jinping he called on the nation to unleash what he called new productive forces, which is Xi Jinping speak for a high tech upgrade for the economy. But to achieve that gross, to achieve 5 percent growth, analysts say that Chinese consumers and companies need more policy support to help boost confidence. John?
 
VAUSE: Kristie, thank you. Kristie Lu Stout live for us in Hong Kong.
 
Well, the White House has just released U.S. President Joe Biden and First Lady Dr. Jill Biden's joint tax return. The deadline for Americans to file their taxes was Monday.
 <br>[01:30:00]
 
And we now know they earned nearly $620,000 last year, most of that from President Biden's salary. Their federal income tax rate came in at 23.7 percent. Good deductions at that.
 
The White House says Biden believes in being open and honest, adding that, quote, "The long-standing tradition of annually releasing presidential tax returns should continue unbroken." A clear reference to former President Donald Trump, who did not release his tax returns while he was in office or before he was in office. And probably unlikely to release them ever.
 
Coming up, Iran says it doesn't want war, but it's also warning it would not hold back should Israel cross a red line. That's next.
 
Also a stark warning for Sudan as the country marks a year of civil war. Details also ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back, everyone. 
 
I'm John Vause. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Never before has Iran fired a barrage of missiles from its own territory directly at Israel, a move officials in Tehran described necessary and proportionate. And they warned Israel crosses Iran's so- called red line, then the next assault will be even more severe.
 
And Israels Iron Dome defense system, they say, will not be a deterrent.
 
More now from CNN's Fred Pleitgen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Iranian combat drones fired into the night sky. This new video shown on Iran's state media. Part of the country's massive aerial attack for the first time, targeting Israeli territory. 
 
Hundreds of drones, cruise missiles, and ballistic missiles, and yet Iran calls this measured action and vows things could get much worse for the Israelis.
 
NASSER KNAANI, IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): We have carried out this action in the framework of deterrence. If another action is taken by Israel, our actions will be more serious. 
 
PLEITGEN: On the streets of Tehran, some hardliners celebrated with fireworks calling for even harsher action and even the destruction of Israel.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: "We hope this attack continues to the point that Israel is destroyed. 
 
With this attack, we can have some of that strong revenge. 
 
PLEITGEN: The punishment is for the bombing of a building in their embassy compound in Damascus, killing several top revolutionary guard commanders. 
 
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, a rifle by his side, calling for retribution during a speech one day before the strike. And the commander of the Revolutionary Guards saying, from now on, they will hit Israel every time it strikes their forces, a strategic shift.
 <br>[01:34:54]
 
HOSSEIN SALAM, ISLAMIC REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS (through translator): From now on, if the Zionist regime attacks, our interests our properties, our personalities, and our citizens, we will retaliate against them from the territory the Islamic Republic of Iran.
 
PLEITGEN: With the help of the U.S. and its allies, the Israelis were able to take out nearly all of the drones and missiles the Iranians fired at them.
 
But Israeli strikes on targets inside Iran, like the country's nuclear facilities as some U.S. hardliners have called for, would be a major challenge. And Iran already warning the U.S.' assets in the Middle East would also become a target if America helps Israel attack Iran. MOHAMMAD BAGHERI, CHIEF OF STAFF, IRANIAN ARMED FORCES (through translator): The American bases, personnel and facilities will not have security in the region and we see America as an aggressor and we'll deal with them as well. 
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN -- Berlin.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Mark Dubowitz is the CEO of the nonpartisan think tank Foundation for Defense of Democracies. He is with us this hour from Washington. Mark just came back from three weeks in Israel meeting with the Israeli prime minister and others on Iran specifically. 
 
So it's good have you with us. 
 
MARK DUBOWITZ, CEO, FOUNDATION FOR DEFENSE OF DEMOCRACIES: Thanks John for having me. I appreciate it.
 
Ok. So the Israelis were publicly thanking their allies on Monday -- U.S., Britain, France, Jordan, and others, all of them working together to neutralize this attack by Iran. 
 
Here's Israeli -- the Israeli army chief of staff. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LT. GEN. HERZI HALEVI, ISRAELI ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF: Operation Iron Shield proved the strength of our ironclad cooperation I want to thank all our international partners who stood up to Iran's aggression. 
 
Iran's attack has created new opportunities for cooperation in the Middle East.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Even from the prime minister's office, this tweet, "Israel deeply appreciate the support of the United States, Britain, France, and others in thwarting the Iranian attack against Israel."
 
So how crucial was that support? What would it be in the outcome here in terms of lives lost and infrastructure damage, if that allied action had not taken place?
 
DUBOWITZ: Well, John, actually, most of the missiles and drones were actually shot down by the Israeli air force or intercepted by the Israeli air defense systems. That's not taking away anything from the United States or from the U.K., or France, or any of our Arab allies who certainly played a useful role. 
 
But you know, I think General Halevi, the IDF chief of staff and Prime Minister Netanyahu, are making this point of appreciation for diplomatic and political reasons because I think they understand, there's a real opportunity to build a regional coalition against the Iranians and for future, future attacks that can be thwarted internationally. VAUSE: It also seems so you know, Israel has support amongst the
 
 international community, regardless of what's happening, you know, behind the scenes with relations between Washington and Jerusalem. Publicly and in a very public way, there is support there.
 
DUBOWITZ: Yes, I think that's exactly right. I think it's very important because obviously Israel has been under tremendous heat recently because of the war in Gaza. So I think it's important to refocus, refocus on the sort of head of the octopus, which is the Supreme Leader of Iran and the regime in Iran and really underscore that Israel is not isolated. Israel is not alone when and Israel's part of a broad regional coalition. All of -- all of these countries understand the threat from Iran.
 
VAUSE: I want you to listen to Iran's foreign minister. He seemed to be trying a little spin here about what happened. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KANAANI: Our advice to all the supporters of the Zionist regime is to appreciate the value of Iran's responsible and proportionate action, instead of choosing inappropriate words about Iran.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: It seems there's some unhappiness among Iran and its allies right now. But you know, would you classify this attack by Iran a failure or a success? 
 
DUBOWITZ: No, I think it was a partial success and then look, they fired over 350 ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and drones with the explicit purpose of trying to kill Israelis. In that respect, it was a failure. 
 
Unfortunately, there's one young Israeli Bedouin Muslim girl, seven years old, who suffered severe injuries. But I don't think that they achieve their goal of massive casualties. I do however think they've create a new normal. I mean, they've not fired these missiles and drones from Iranian territory. This is a direct attack against Israel. It's the first time in the 40 years that they've been attacking Israel, that they didn't go through proxies, didn't go indirect, but went direct.
 
And I think they want to create a new normal. They actually said it explicitly. The regime said, we will now attack Israel directly from Iranian soil with the full might of the Iranian regime. 
 
So in that respect, they created a new normal and the response from the United States and other allies to Israel is stand down, don't, deescalate. I think that's music to the ears of the Iranian supreme leader. 
 
VAUSE: Well, with that that in mind, here is a short sort of sampling of what the allies, those allies, which defended Israel are now telling Israel. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL, COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: What we want to see is de-escalation of the tensions. We don't want to see a wider war. 
 <br>[01:39:52]
 
DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH FOREIGN MINISTRY: We are urging them as friends to think with heads as well as hearts, to be smart as well as tough. 
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, SECRETARY-GENERAL, UNITED NATIONS: Now is the time to defuse and de-escalate. Now is the time for maximum restraint.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Allies and friends, I should say. We don't know what Israel is planning, but a diplomatic response seems to be political suicide for Prime Minister Netanyahu. But how far is he willing to go and maybe risk alienating some of the countries who helped defend Israel?
 
DUBOWITZ: Look, after -- we have to remember, I mean Israeli Prime Ministers Menachem Begin defied Ronald Reagan to take out Saddam Hussein's nuclear reactor '81 and Prime Minister Ehud Olmert defied George W. Bush and took out Syria's nuclear reactor. 
 
I think Israeli prime ministers understand that at the end of the day their responsibility is to defend their country and their people and when there are regimes that are going to use the worst kinds of weapons against their people, it's not good to be popular in the west. It's much better to be alive in the East.
 
VAUSE: Good point to finish on.
 
Mark, thanks so much for being with us. Really appreciate your thoughts and your insights.
 
DUBOWITZ: Thanks for having me, John.
 
VAUSE: The first-ever trial to seek justice for the torture of Iraqis at the notorious Abu Ghraib prison is now underway in the U.S. state of Virginia. Three Iraqi civilians are suing a military contractor, saying they engaged in a directed campaign of abuse and torture in that prison, which was used as a U.S. detention center during the Iraq war two decades ago. 
 
One of the plaintiffs gave graphic testimony about the fear and terror he faced. He described the screams of other detainees.
 
A lawyer for the defense company says the U.S. military police are the ones to blame. The civil trial is expected to last for two weeks. 
 
Aid groups are warning Sudan is on the verge of collapse and facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis as it marks one year of civil war. 
 
The Islamic Relief Humanitarian Agency says young children in Sudan face the prospect of starving to death in a mass famine. Hospitals and schools have been destroyed, millions have been forced from their homes since this war began.
 
The U.N. chief says potential crimes against humanity are being committed in Sudan.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GUTERRES: Indiscriminate attacks that are killing, injuring and terrorizing civilians could amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: This crisis began last year after civil war broke out between the Sudanese Armed Forces and paramilitary Rapid Support Forces. Countless civilians have been killed or injured so far in the fighting. 
 
And with that, we'll take a short break.
 
When we come back, what could be the worst bleaching of coral reefs in recorded history. The new reports that are sounding the alarm about rising ocean temperatures.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: A fourth global coral bleaching event has been declared by NOAA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the U.S. Two scientific bodies say record ocean temperatures are driving this mass bleaching event, possibly the worst in recorded history. 
 
Research shows more than 54 percent of the world's coral reefs are areas that have been experiencing bleaching in the past year. 
 <br>[01:44:55]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEREK MANZELLO, U.S. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION: We are still not done with this event and the number of reef areas around the planet that are experiencing bleaching level heat stress is growing each week.
 
So it's likely that in a few weeks' time, this event will officially be the most spatially extensive global coral bleaching event on record. And what that means is bleaching level heat stress will be experienced by more coral reef areas around the planet than has ever occurred before on record.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Right now to Sydney and Glenn Walker, head of nature for Greenpeace, Australia-Pacific. Glenn, thank you for being with us.
 
Glenn, thank you for being with us.
 
GLENN WALKER, GREENPEACE, AUSTRALIA-PACIFIC: Thanks for having me. VAUSE: Normally bleached coral is not dead coral. It's the unusually high water temperatures which is full of algae which lives in the coral out and it essentially does that for its survival. Here's what happens next. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID OBURA, CORAL SCIENTIST: During that time the coral is not growing as fast or getting as much energy as when it has the algae in it. Now the problem is when the stress is too much, so they separate company. The coral is bleached.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: And if water temperatures remain high, the coral dies. So is there any reason to believe these record-breaking sea and ocean temperatures will ease anytime soon.
 
WALKER: It's really problematic what's happening right across the world. This is climate change-driven devastation happening right across our coral reefs and turning these vibrant, beautiful, colorful reefs white and killing a lot of species. 
 
And we're really worried and scientists are worried that this heat is going to continue because of climate change, because of the continued burning of coal, oil, and gas which is driving climate change. And it's really harming our oceans and it's harming the reefs and it's really concerning trying to see we're on the brink of what will be the world's worst coral bleaching event.
 
VAUSE: And you know, the visible impact on coral is immediate with the changing color. But we're told the real damage might not be obvious for years. Again, listen to this assessment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LORENZO ALVAREZ-FILIP, CORAL SCIENTIST: What will happen is in the following years, depending on the species, the corals will start degrading because they are eroded. And this is when we will see the consequences. It might take even 10, 20 years to see this consequences.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: So when we're talking about the overall impact here on our oceans and our seas from the degradation and erosion of coral reefs, what are we looking at here? What's the knock-on effect as well to other ecosystems? 
 
WALKER: The issue is that billions of people around the world rely on coral reefs. It's -- it provides so much diversity of life, fishing, tourism, coral reefs also protect coastal areas from the impacts of -- from ocean and waves. 
 
So they're really important right across the world and the impact will be severe both for biodiversity and human communities. So what we have to do right now urgently right around the world is
 
 stop opening up new coal and gas mines and stop burning fossil fuels because that's the only way were going to protect these reefs. The more frequent these events happen, the more severe they are, the less chance they have of bouncing back, the less chance they have of survival. 
 
And so we need to stop burning fossil fuels to save our reefs around the world.
 
VAUSE: The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority release a report last week, which found more than half of the 1,000 reefs analyzed that's more than 2,900 in total at either high, very high, or extremely high levels of bleaching. Only a quarter were relatively unaffected. Goes on to say, perhaps most ominously, the bleaching in many regions stretch as far down as 18 meters, about 60 feet.
 
Do you find that reports surprising about the extent of the bleaching and explain why it's a depth of the bleaching is such a concern.
 
WALKER: It's a concern because we haven't seen anything this severe. This is the most severe coral bleaching event we've ever seen in Australia. I've spent many years going back and swimming in the Great Barrier Reef because it's a global treasure. It's an extraordinary place to visit. 
 
And I've witnessed firsthand the changing of that environment, losing the color, some of the coral turning to rubble. And this has been replicated around the world now. 
 
And the depths that we're talking about is the, is the compounding impacts of all of these bleaching events, the rising temperatures. 2023 was the highest global ocean temperatures we've seen on record. And with the highest global temperatures in the atmosphere as well. 
 
So this is a red alert to save our reefs and to stop burning fossil fuels because the damage is real and its happening. We can prevent it. We can put the brakes on it, but we need to act really quickly to stop opening up new fossil fuel areas. 
 
VAUSE: I want to play part of a tourism ad for the Great Barrier Reef. Here it is.
 <br>[01:49:40]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GRAPHIC: Something this special is ours to share. It is a living treasure to be cherished, respected, and protected.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: It's stunning to look at those images. It's a thing of true beauty. And if you've missed it, the ad ends with the words "protected" and "respected" fronted on the screen. But is it really? How much damage has been done just for example, by
 
 the Australian dismal and at times totally irresponsible approach towards climate change. 
 
WALKER: Well, Australia is one of the largest exporters of fossil fuels. We know who's to blame here for this damage. It's the fossil fuel companies. They've known for many decades. Their own scientists, global scientists have been really clear. 
 
They predicted this would happen to the Great Barrier Reef and reefs around the world. Yet they've continue their damage and so it's really devastating to me as an Australian to see the Great Barrier Reef be damaged like that. And it's devastating to see reefs damaged around the world by this industry. 
 
And so we need action fast to stop this industry expanding.
 
VAUSE: Yes, it is a true tragedy if we lose the Barrier Reef, it's one of those, what -- seven wonders of the world, natural wonders? 
 
Glenn, thank you for being with us. We really appreciate your time.
 
WALKER: Thanks very much. 
 
VAUSE: Well NASA is looking for cheaper ways to bring back samples from Mars. The Perseverance Rover has been collecting samples on the Red Planet since 2021. It's part of NASA's most complex missions yet. A recent review of the Mars sample return program recommended it should cost somewhere between $5 and $7 billion. The problem is federal budget cuts.
 
Agency officials are seeking help from NASA Centers and industry experts on how to finish the mission sooner and within budget.
 
Well, first she made college basketball history. Now she's the number one pick for the WNBA. Coming up, Caitlin Clark ascends to the pros.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Beijing's half marathon from Sunday is now under investigation after what appears to be a very dodgy ending. 
 
Look at that. The three African runners appear to be deliberately slowing down to allow this Chinese runner to cross the line first. Those on the Internet saw the clip demanding an investigation from race organizers. 
 
Now a sports company, which sponsors both the runner and the marathon says they will take a look. 
 
The race winner has broken China's marathon record twice in the past two years. He did not address his controversial finish, but it does look kind of dodgy.
 
Now to the UEFA champions league and the upcoming clash between two powerhouses, FC Barcelona will land in the semifinals for the first time in five years if they could pull off another win over Paris Saint-Germain in the coming day. 
 
Barca, who has not lost since January overcomes PSG 3-2 to round one of their showdown in France. But even without that home field advantage, PSG coach says he can smell a comeback. The Parisian club should be well-rested after having the weekend off. No idea what I just said.
 
Excitement for women's basketball is at an all-time high in the United States. Now, many of the college stars are making the move to the pros. The first pick in the WNBA draft on Monday was Caitlin Clark, who was selected by the Indiana Fever. The power Hawkeye superstar is the all-time leading scorer in the NCAA Division 1 basketball.
 
CNN's Coy Wire has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: The WNBA draft here at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in New York was buzzing. Tickets sold out in about 15 minutes. 
 
Fans young and old, almost blew the lid off this thing and there was never a doubt about who the number one overall pick would be. 
 <br>[01:54:50]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: With the first pick in the 2024 WNBA draft, the Indiana Fever selects Caitlin Clark, the University of Iowa. 
 
WIRE: The three-point shooting superstar Caitlin Clark rewrote the history books in college, helped sell out arenas across the country. And now she takes her talents and her allure to the W. 
 
She has been a spark of inspiration for millions. I caught up with Caitlin on the orange carpet before she was picked and asked her what her message is for the next generation.
 
CAITLIN CLARK, INDIANA FEVER, WNBA: Dream big. Go after whatever you want. I think that was the biggest thing for my parents is like they never told me I couldn't do something. It was always like, all right, you want it, you got to go earn it. 
 
It was never anything that was ever given, but they always believe in me and instilled confidence in me from a young age, so I think that's the biggest thing. 
 
WIRE: Here's a look at some of the other top stars that were taken. It was Stanford's Cameron Brink going second overall to L.A. reigning national champ from South Carolina, Kamilla Cardoso to the Chicago Sky. Tennessee's Rickea Jackson went to the Sparks as well and Dallas took Ohio State's Jacy Sheldon to round out the top five. 
 
These women have helped to further amplify the massive growth we're witnessing in women's sports. The WNBA already coming off a record- breaking season in terms of viewership and attendance. 
 
The future is bright. It is exciting and it is now. The WNBA tips off May 14th.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Thank you, Coy.
 
So with the popularity of women's basketball soaring, tennis legend Serena Williams tells CNN, she'd be super interested in owning a WNBA team. 
 
The 23-time Grand Slam winner has become a prolific investor both inside and outside the sports world since moving away from tennis. Stakes in a professional women's soccer club, and a golf franchise.
 
We finished with the power of Beyonce. Since the release of her new country album, "Cowboy Carter", sales of Levi's Jeans and cowboy boots have taken off. One of the tracks on her album is titled "Levi's Jeans". And fans have sought to replicate the old denim outfit, which Beyonce posted on social media. Some with more success than others. 
 
Levi's sales increased 20 percent the week of the album's release versus the average over the last three years. And western boot sales up nearly 25 percent in the same week. How about that.
 
Thank you for watching? 
 
I'm John Vause. 
 
CNN NEWSROOM continues after a very short break with my colleague and friend Rosemary Church.
 
I'll see you right back here tomorrow. 
 <br>[01:57:08]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)