Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Former President Jimmy Carter Dead At 100; Andrew Young Remembers Jimmy Carter; Grieving Families At Muan Airport Wait For Information; Police Fire Tear Gas On Demonstrations Over Alleged Abductions; Israel Raid Empties N. Gaza's Last Functioning Hospital; Carter leaves Legacy Of Diplomacy And Humanitarianism; Trump Defends Foreign Worker Visas; Trump Endorses Johnson In Speaker's Race Ahead Of Critical Vote. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired December 30, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:37]
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Coming to you live from New York, I'm Zain Asher. My colleague, Bianna, is off today. This is ONE WORLD.
 
Today, the world mourns the passing of the 39th president of the United States, Jimmy Carter. Carter died at the age of 100 on Sunday, leaving 
 
 behind a legacy unlike anyone who has ever sat in the Oval Office before. His efforts to eradicate disease, to promote peace, democracy, and free 
 
 elections, and advocate for human rights are being remembered on all corners of the globe.
 
A state funeral is going to be held Washington on January 9th to honor Carter. He will eventually be laid to rest in his hometown of Plains, 
 
 Georgia.
 
Carter lived longer than any other U.S. president and always said he never feared his own death. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LARRY KING, RADIO HOST: Do you think about dying?
 
JIMMY CARTER, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: One of the chapters in my book is about the inevitability with which we have to face the end of 
 
 our life on earth. And I tried to reassure the readers, and not only saying almost exactly what Billy Graham did, the people with deep religious faith, 
 
 don't fear death. And I don't fear death.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Rafael Romo joins us live now from the Carter Center in Atlanta, Georgia.
 
Rafael, when you think about Jimmy Carter's legacy, I mean, it's not so much what he did while he was in the Oval Office. All the action really 
 
 took place after he left the White House in 1981. 
 
Just talk to us a little bit more about what people are saying about Jimmy Carter's legacy.
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Well, for one thing, Zain, people across the world respect and admire the former president because of 
 
 everything he did, not only in the White House, but also after he left the White House fighting for democracy, fighting disease, seeking peace at the 
 
 international level.
 
Here in Georgia, he is also very respected and loved because of the men, because after leaving the White House, he decided to go back to his native 
 
 town, Plains, Georgia, and he continued to be a Sunday school teacher. And people have very fond memories of President Carter because of that.
 
And, yes, Georgia Governor Brian Kemp has ordered flags to be flown at half-staff. Yes, the political leadership in the state has sent messages of 
 
 condolences and high praise for the former president.
 
But some of the most moving things that we have hear -- that we have seen here at the Carter Center are people who just dropped by to leave some 
 
 flowers, to light candles. We saw someone who left a jar of peanuts in honor of the memory of the peanut farmer who rose to become the 39th 
 
 president of the United States.
 
In the last hour, I had an opportunity to talk to two gentlemen from Arizona, both teachers. They originally came to Georgia to be at the -- at 
 
 the Peach Bowl, a football -- American football game that they wanted to attend, but they decided to stop by and paid the respects the moment they 
 
 learned that President Carter had passed away.
 
I spoke with them and one of them remembers specifically that he was in school, in junior high specifically, when the president signed the decree 
 
 to return the Panama Canal to Panama. This is what he had to say. Let's take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRADY THORPE, RETIRED TEACHER: I still remember in junior high when he made the deal to give the canal back in another 20 years or whatever it was. And 
 
 I think -- it just shows he was very forward thinking.
 
I guess as far as his legacy, I think he was thinking down the road and not just in the moment. And I think right now, we have a lot of thinking just 
 
 in the moment.
 
ROMO: When it comes to his presidency and also the many accomplishments that he had after leaving the White House, what comes to mind?
 
JERRY THORPE, RETIRED TEACHER: Well, the habitat for humanity, and the volunteerism in promoting that and always being active. And, you know, and 
 
 just in helping -- in helping others.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO: And imagine this, Zain, that second gentleman, Jerry Thorpe, told me that the very first vote that he cast was for Jimmy Carter back then when 
 
 he -- when he was running for the presidency.
 
One final thing that I would like to share with you is that we already know that on January 9th, there will be an official state funeral in Washington 
 
 followed in the next few days by memorials here in Georgia. Now back to you.
 <br>[12:05:11]
 
ASHER: Rafael Romo, thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
All right. Joining us live now is the man that Jimmy Carter picked to represent the United States at the U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young was a close 
 
 friend of Jimmy Carter for many decades.
 
Former ambassador, thank you so much for being with us. It's an honor to talk to you. I'm sure you have so many fond memories of your friend, 
 
 President Carter.
 
I think what's interesting is that a lot of people have talked about President Carter's faith, his compassion, his humanity, his desire, deep 
 
 desire and conviction to be of service in everything that he did.
 
But I think it's also important to talk about how much he really championed civil rights. This is a man who grew up in the segregated South, not just 
 
 the segregated South, but the segregated rural South, over 100 years ago.
 
Obviously, he grew up in the '20s and the '30s. Just talk to us about how his views on race evolves over that period of time. I mean, Jimmy Carter 
 
 was a huge champion of inclusion and diversity.
 
ANDREW YOUNG, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: Well, one of the things about President Carter was that he never seemed to have a problem with 
 
 race.
 
His mother was the nurse for the county, which was 80 percent black. And she delivered all of the babies because there was no hospital there. And 
 
 she considered them all her children.
 
Her father was an elder statesman and a multiracial populist who's best friend, in many ways, was the bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal 
 
 Church. And they used to get together regularly and sit on the front porch and read the Bible and sing hymns together.
 
And so it was a very unusual family, but he never denied that part of his heritage, though it was sometimes difficult to live up to. And he learned 
 
 to live with a minority view about minorities because he was -- he was in a county that was 80% percent black, but white people kind of ruled 
 
 everything.
 
He never quite went along with that, and he treated his friends as his friends. And most of his friends happened to be black. He got along much 
 
 better with black people. He went to black churches campaigning. And when they sang the hymns, he knew all the words.
 
He -- well, he and I hit it off almost immediately because I grew up in New Orleans, which -- and I was living in a predominantly white neighborhood, 
 
 but got along with everybody.
 
And I think that we underestimate the importance that his message of multiracial equality brought to his presidency. Because he was a powerful 
 
 president that from the very beginning, when we were asking, interviewing him in the Black Caucus about how many black people he would appoint.
 
He said, I don't know. He said, well, how many black people do you have on your staff? He said, I don't know. And they got upset with him. And I went 
 
 to the door and got his assistant to come in. And everybody that we had interviewed that was running for president had one black staff member, 
 
 except the most liberal one who was looking for one.
 
And when we asked, how many black staff members do you have? His assistant said, well, we only have 27. And so, well, what do they do? They do 
 
 everything everybody else does.
 
And so he started his campaign as a multiracial campaign.
 
ASHER: MM-hmm.
 
YOUNG: He appointed more judges than anybody had done up to that time. He integrated just about everything he did. And it was just a part of his 
 
 life.
 
ASHER: I mean, talk to us about how risky that was, because, you know, a lot of people have talked about the famous speech that he gave in 1971, 
 
 just after becoming the governor of Georgia, you know, during his inaugural speech, where he famously declared racial discrimination is over in 
 
 Georgia.
 <br>[12:10:11]
 
That was a really pivotal moment. And it was a huge risk for somebody like Jimmy Carter, who grew up in the South, where segregation was completely 
 
 normal. I mean, talk to us about that moment.
 
YOUNG: But it was a risk that he took willingly, and because he believed it. And I don't think even his black supporters would have felt it 
 
 necessary for him to say it out loud at the beginning of his inaugural speech.
 
But it was one of his moderate to liberal white supporters that was uncomfortable about race that asked him would he say it out loud in his 
 
 inaugural address. And so he was on the firing line, but he went there willingly.
 
When he was at the Naval Academy, and they put one black cadet, he went to the commandant and asked if the one black cadet could be his roommate. And 
 
 he used as his example, he said, I'm a southerner. And I have a hard time adjusting because I talk different and everybody assumes things about me, 
 
 but -- and I know he's going to have some of the same problems if we're rubbing together, we can help each other.
 
And so he was -- he was always going out of his way to bring about the egalitarian society that he believed in. And then his mother and father 
 
 believed in.
 
Well, not his father so much. It was hard for his father, but she gave in. He gave into Miss Lillian. And Miss Lillian went to India. To the Peace 
 
 Corps when she was 66 years old. And so it was quite remarkable family.
 
ASHER: Yes. Yes. In many ways, he was way ahead of his time and his environment. And I love that story that you shared about how willing he was 
 
 to bridge gaps between people and really show there is common ground between all of us.
 
Former U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young, thank you so much for being with us as we honor your dear friend, former President Jimmy Carter. Thank you.
 
We'll be right back with the other day's news after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:15:18]
 
ASHER: All right. We are learning new details about the deadly Jeju Airlines crash in South Korea that killed 179 people on Sunday. A makeshift 
 
 memorial has sprung up in one county. People are laying flowers and standing in silence to mourn the victims. Only two crew members survived 
 
 this disaster.
 
Officials say the pilot declared mayday and reported a bird strike just minutes before the deadly landing. An airline executive offered his 
 
 condolences.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEE JUNG-SUK, CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER, JEJU AIR (through translator): We will do everything we can to ensure that you feel at least a little comforted 
 
 and reassured. We will take full responsibility and accept any necessary measures. Once again, I offer my deepest apologies.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: As the country mourns, the sounds of sobbing echoed -- echoed rather, through South Korean airports. The grieving families wait for their 
 
 loved ones to be identified. CNN's Mike Valerio reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It is the unmistakable outcry of grief heard throughout South Korea's Muan International Airport.
 
Families unable to absorb the anguish of the Jeju Air catastrophe.
 
Hundreds of relatives huddling in the departure hall, waiting for news of whether their loved one's remains are found.
 
A friend of a couple killed in the crash said he came here to confirm for himself his friends of 30 years are simply gone.
 
KIM NAM-CHEOL, FRIEND OF VICTIMS (through translator): I have nothing to say, but it's tragic, he told us. I watched the news all day. And for now, 
 
 they say bird strike could be the cause. I'm so shocked and hurt. I cannot even put it into words.
 
VAELRIO: Now so many people have chosen to stay. They're not going anywhere. And that's seen evidenced by all of these tents that go from here 
 
 pretty much to the end of the terminal. They go back three tents to the edge of the check-in counters.
 
You see food deliveries throughout the day. Let's keep going this way. And the echoes of grief. 
 
VALERIO (voice-over): The scenes inside are just a short drive from the cataclysmic crash site. The tail of the doomed airliner still jutting above 
 
 the field, a mountain in the middle of the debris.
 
More than a thousand people now mobilized to sift through pieces of the plane.
 
VALERIO: The crash scene is absolutely harrowing. Just a few steps away, you can see where the doomed Jeju Air jetliner careened through the 
 
 embankment and burst into flames. And more than a day later, you can still see forensics teams in their white suits combing through the debris along 
 
 with members of the police force as well as members of the South Korean military.
 
Now to my right, you can see soldiers looking through the fields and around them to give you an idea of the force of this crash, a full football field 
 
 away from where we're standing. You can see mangled, twisted chairs thrown from the jetliner.
 
VALERIO (voice-over): A representative of the victims' families urging an even larger response. 
 
PARK HAN-SHIN, REPRESENTATIVE OF JEJU AIR CRASH VICTIM'S FAMILIES (voice- over): What I want to request from the government is to increase the manpower so that the recovery can be carried out more swiftly. I hope my 
 
 siblings, my family, can be recovered and returned to us, even if only 80 percent intact.
 
VALERIO (voice-over): For now, Muan remains the epicenter of a nation in mourning, the weight of unspoken farewells and quiet desperation made 
 
 unbearable by an absence of answers. 
 
Mike Valerio, CNN, Muan, South Korea.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Earlier, police in Nairobi, Kenya fired tear gas on people protesting a spate of abductions of government critics. At least one 
 
 protester was reportedly hurt. Some of them arrested. Dozens of government critics have allegedly gone missing after a youth-led protest movement 
 
 erupted in June against a controversial finance bill for months.
 
Kenyan President William Ruto claimed that there had been no abductions. But on Saturday, he promised that they would stop.
 
CNN's Larry Madowo joins us live now from Angola's capital. He's in Luanda for us, south of Kenya.
 
Larry, one more can you tell us?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Zain, today, Kenyan police appear to have broken even more laws by violently teargassing and breaking up peaceful 
 
 protesters who are calling for the release of these missing people.
 
About six more have gone missing just in the past two weeks alone. The right to peaceably protest to present petitions to authorities is enshrined 
 
 in the Kenyan constitution. Some of them were hooted, which is against the law in Kenya as well.
 <br>[12:20:09]
 
The reason why so many people were out in the streets, not just in Nairobi but other parts of the country, is because since June when the protests 
 
 broke out, more than 82 people have gone missing, according to various human rights groups, including a state-funded human rights body. 
 
President William Ruto has always denied that his government was abducting any people, any critics of his government, until Saturday, when he suddenly 
 
 changed that and said that he would stop these abductions. But he had a condition for them. He said that the young people of Kenya have to be 
 
 polite. They have to behave. And if that happens, then he would stop these abductions.
 
But for families we've been speaking to who are looking for their loved ones, this has been a devastating time for them. I want you to listen to 
 
 one parent.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I am here as a parent. Please, I am begging. I have cried enough. I do not have strength. I feel like dying.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: This evening, a judge in Nairobi has ordered the police and other security agencies to immediately and unconditionally release at least six 
 
 of these missing people. And it has asked the Inspector General of Police, the Director of Criminal Investigations and other senior leaders in the 
 
 security services in Kenya to show up in court soon to answer for why they continue to detain these people.
 
Now, that's an interesting point, because the police have maintained that they don't have these people. They have not abducted them, which has led to 
 
 a lot of mystery in the country. So how were they tracked down and disappeared? And these are all people who posted critical AI-generated 
 
 images of President Ruto in a casket on social media, some of them -- one of them was a cartoonist who shared satirical silhouettes of President 
 
 William Ruto. And when these things happened, then they disappeared.
 
But the government claims, they don't have them. The families, human rights bodies, many in Kenya just don't believe them, Zain.
 
ASHER: Yes. Obviously, extremely hard for the family members of those who are missing who have no clue where their loved ones are at this point in 
 
 time.
 
Larry Madowo, live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Northern Gaza's last remaining major hospital is now out of service, that's according to the U.N. and the World Health Organization. 
 
 They say that Israeli forces raided the Kamal Adwan Hospital on Friday and forced everyone to evacuate, including critically ill patients.
 
The hospital's director was arrested as well. Recently released detainees for the Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya is being held at a controversial Israeli 
 
 military base near the Gaza border. Israel says the hospital in Beit Lahia was being used as what it calls a Hamas command and control center and 
 
 accused Dr. Abu Safiya of being a Hamas operative. They did not provide any evidence of their claims or any update on the condition or whereabouts of 
 
 Dr. Abu Safiya.
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks joins us live now from Jerusalem. Of course, Paula, this is one of Gaza's last remaining sort of functioning hospitals, last 
 
 remaining major functioning hospitals.
 
If we just take a step back for a second, what does this mean for the people of Gaza, for Palestinians who are in desperate need of adequate 
 
 healthcare at this point?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Zain, what we've heard from the United Nations is that some 75,000 Palestinians are now at risk in Northern 
 
 Gaza. They believe that this is the number of those still trapped in this area.
 
And now, of course, with Kamal Adwan completely out of service, it makes the situation more desperate for them. Now, we heard from the WHO, the 
 
 World Health Organization, saying that some of those critically injured who were in this hospital that the Israeli military raided were transferred to 
 
 another hospital, the Indonesian hospital, a little further south.
 
But they say that the hospital itself is out of function. So they're looking to try and move some of those patients even further south to give 
 
 them a better chance of survival.
 
Now, what the Israeli military has said is that they believe this area is a Hamas stronghold, something which the hospital director, who is now 
 
 detained, had rejected over recent months. 
 
And they also say that they've detained about 240 Hamas and Islamic Jihad operatives. But what we have heard is a very different story from those on 
 
 the ground.
 
The director himself, Dr. Hussam Abu Safia is -- has been very vocal and has made many videos describing the desperate situation in his hospital 
 
 over recent months.
 
In fact, Amnesty International called him, quote, "the voice of Gaza's decimated health sector." Now, the health sector is really nothing to speak 
 
 of now in Northern Gaza. We heard from the U.N. OCHA department, they say that since December 1st, 48 out of 52 of their desired trips to Northern 
 
 Gaza to be able to replenish food, fuel, and medical supplies were denied by Israeli authorities.
 <br>[12:25:09]
 
Israeli authorities though say that they have been evacuating patients out of this hospital and this area and have allowed fuel, food, and medical 
 
 supplies in. Something that is at odds with those on the ground are saying.
 
But there is no doubt it is a very desperate situation for those, most notably in northern Gaza, but across of Gaza, especially now as this region 
 
 has entered a cold snap. And we are hearing and seeing more reports of children, of infants dying from the cold.
 
In fact, a 20-month-old baby, we are being told, died from the cold just this Monday. That is the fifth that we have been hearing about in recent 
 
 days. Zain.
 
ASHER: And, Paula, just in terms of what the IDF is saying about the Kamal Adwan Hospital, they're saying that it was used as a command and control 
 
 center by Hamas. Just talk to us about what evidence there is of that and whether the IDF has provided any evidence.
 
HANCOCKS: Specific evidence of that claim has not come this Monday. We heard the IDF saying that since that raid on Friday, the reason that they 
 
 needed to go into this hospital and the surrounding areas was because they said it was being used as a Hamas terror stronghold.
 
It was back in October that the IDF first started this operation, increased operation in Northern Gaza, they say, because Hamas was regrouping and that 
 
 they was reestablishing itself in these areas in Northern Gaza. And so they have been trying to move people out of Northern Gaza and trying to target 
 
 the area. And certainly, we have seen evidence and heard evidence from the United Nations and other NGOs that there is very little aid that is being 
 
 allowed into these areas.
 
When it comes to the exact evidence of Hamas terrorist strongholds, as referring to Kamal Adwan, the IDF has not provided that, specifically, at 
 
 this point and it is something that we have heard push back from those within the hospital itself, notably from the director.
 
But after arresting the director, the IDF says that they believe he is also a Hamas terrorist operative. Zain.
 
ASHER: All right. Paula Hancocks live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Coming up, their love story spanned almost 80 years. A love letter written by Jimmy Carter to his wife decades ago sheds light ton 
 
 their extraordinary relationship.
 
And from 50 Cent to Snoop Dogg, we'll look back at some of the funniest moments and flubs from seven years of Times Square celebrations right here 
 
 on CNN.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDY COHEN, AMERICAN TV SHOW HOST: OK. I'm going to run through various locations. And I want to know if you have gotten high in them, OK? Have you 
 
 gotten high at the White House?
 
SNOOP DOGG, AMERICAN RAPPER: Yes, yes, yes.
 
COHEN: Yes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:44]
 
ASHER: All right. Welcome back to ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher.
 
We are seeing an outpouring of tributes and condolences for Jimmy Carter after the news of his death at age 100.
 
The former president was famously devoted to his faith and his family and his enduring marriage to his wife, Rosalynn, was legendary. Last year, 
 
 after Rosalyn Carter died, their daughter actually read a love letter written by her father to her mother when they were younger.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMY LYNN CARTER, DAUGHTER OF JIMMY AND ROSALYNN CARTER: My darling, every time I have ever been away from you, I have been thrilled when I returned 
 
 to discover just how wonderful you are.
 
While I am away, I try to convince myself that you really are not, could not be, as sweet and beautiful as I remember.
 
But when I see you, I fall in love with you all over again. Does that seem strange to you? It doesn't to me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Jimmy Carter was one of the busiest former presidents in American history. For decades, he continued to carry out diplomatic and humanitarian 
 
 missions across the globe.
 
And as our Jim Sciutto reports, those later years of public service could define his legacy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIMMY SCIUTTO, CNN HOST (voice-over): Jimmy Carter rewrote the book for retired presidents. Instead of fading into a quiet retirement, Carter 
 
 became active in projects around the globe.
 
DOUGLAS BRINKLEY, HISTORIAN: One of the crucial things Carter did was say, I will not sit on a corporate board. I will not be using my presidency to 
 
 line my own pockets.
 
SCIUTTO (voice-over): Instead, Carter donned a carpenter's belt and championed Habitat for Humanity, volunteering to help build homes himself 
 
 for the poor.
 
CARTER: This is kind of a vacation for us every year, hardworking, unpredictable, adventurous, challenging, but always gratifying.
 
SCIUTTO (voice-over): In 1982, he founded the Carter Center in Atlanta, which became much more than a presidential library. Carter Center 
 
 initiatives include fighting third-world diseases, seeking international peace. And beginning in 1989, monitoring international elections.
 
CARTER: When President Bush first went into office, they were very interested in doing something about Panama and about Nicaragua. So to make 
 
 a long story short, with their full support, we went down and held the elections in Panama to try to bring democracy to that country.
 
SCIUTTO (voice-over): Carter's team uncovered a plot by Panamanian strongman, Manuel Noriega, to falsify tally sheets.
 
CARTER: Noriega's candidates who whom he thought was going to win got about 25 percent of the votes. And when he tried to steal the election, I 
 
 publicly announced that this was a fraudulent election and nobody paid any attention to Noriega's candidates.
 
SCIUTTO (voice-over): Later that year, President George H.W. Bush sent in the U.S. military to remove Noriega.
 
Being an outsider may have hurt Carter in Washington, but it was perfect for his life outside the White House.
 
CARTER: I go in, I meet with the revolutionaries. I meet with the incumbent ruling party. And if both parties decided they can't win on the 
 
 battlefield, then we try to induce them either to have a ceasefire without negotiating it or to hold an election.
 
SCIUTTO (voice-over): Carter also made several trips to North Korea, including a 2010 visit to negotiate the release of imprisoned U.S. citizen 
 
 Aijalon Mahli Gomes.
 <br>[12:35:07]
 
Through his travels, Carter has met with some of the world's most unsavory leaders.
 
CARTER: I've dealt with some, you know, I've dealt with Kim Il Sung, who was a dictator for North Korea, very successfully I might say, and very 
 
 harmoniously.
 
I've dealt with communist, dictators who were on the way out, like Mengistu in Ethiopia.
 
SCIUTTO (voice-over): In 1994, he helped avert a U.S. invasion of Haiti by convincing its corrupt government to give up power.
 
CARTER: Well, I did, but I had some great help. And as you know, we had 61 airplanes on the way loaded with paratroopers to invade Haiti when we 
 
 finally got an agreement.
 
Carter stirred up controversy by meeting with Fidel Castro in Cuba. And with the leaders of Hamas in the Middle East. But he also spearheaded 
 
 efforts to virtually eradicate the diseases of guinea worm and river blindness from Africa to Asia.
 
In 2002, Jimmy Carter was recognized for his tireless efforts resolving conflicts and promoting social and economic justice throughout the world, 
 
 winning the Nobel Prize for Peace. He spent the rest of his long and active life pursuing and fulfilling the cause and commitment he summed up in his 
 
 farewell address as president.
 
CARTER: Those who hunger for freedom, who thirst for human dignity and who suffer for the sake of justice, they are the patriots of this cause. I 
 
 believe with all my heart that America must always stand for these basic human rights at home and abroad. That is both our history and our destiny.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: All right. Time now for The Exchange. I want to bring in someone who worked with the Carter Center for years, Dr. Frank Richards, directed the 
 
 Center's River Blindness Elimination Program and several others, which help treat and prevent diseases in countries like Nigeria, Ethiopia, and Haiti.
 
Doctor, thank you so much for being with us. I mean, former President Jimmy Carter was really focused, really focused and genuinely passionate about 
 
 eliminating some really terrible diseases across the globe, especially in parts of Africa. That includes river blindness and guinea worm. 
 
Talk to us a bit more about river blindness. Because it comes from bites from infected black flies that breed in rapidly flowing rivers. Just talk 
 
 to us about the Carter Center's work, not just to control river blindness, but to actually eliminate it.
 
FRANK RICHARDS, FORMER CARTER CENTER SENIOR ADVISER: Well, thanks very much, first of all, for having me and having that beautiful introductory 
 
 piece on President Carter.
 
I'd like, before I answer specifically your question, to pick up a little bit on President Carter's passion for human rights and belief that 
 
 healthcare is a human right, and the alleviation of suffering, which can be achieved in particular amongst the poorest of the poor some relatively 
 
 simple things, and his interest in trying to get those relatively simple things, which in reality on the ground are difficult, but to accomplish 
 
 those things.
 
The other interest is the interest in elimination and eradication of disease. And there we have the great history of smallpox eradication and 
 
 the interest of eradication as a stepping stone for equity.
 
Remember, if you go for eradication, everybody comes along for the ride, not just the rich, but the poor. There's no gender differentiation, there's 
 
 no creed or color differentiation. So eradication is seen sort of as the pinnacle of public health and also the pinnacle of equity.
 
And two of the programs at the Carter Center that aimed for complete eradication are the guinea worm program and program which I was involved in 
 
 for many, many years since 1987, the elimination and eradication of river blindness.
 
As you mentioned, river blindness is called river blindness because the parasite that causes the infection is transmitted by small flies that breed 
 
 in rapidly flowing rivers. And so rural communities, farming communities that are close to rivers and rich bottomland are the communities most 
 
 afflicted. Sometimes 40 or 50 percent of adults can be blinded by the condition. People abandon these rich areas because of the illness. And so 
 
 it's a very important impediment not just to health but socioeconomically.
 
In 1987, Merck and Company donated a medicine which when delivered year after year, could indeed control and perhaps eliminate the condition of 
 
 river blindness.
 <br>[12:40:09]
 
And the Carter Center was involved in programs to help distribute the medicine and what we call the public-private partnership, both in the 
 
 Americas and parts of Africa, and have had enormous success with now over 20 million people liberated from this condition and no longer having to 
 
 take this medicine.
 
So it's an enormous success. And it could not have happened without the intervention of President and Mrs. Carter and their access to get people 
 
 interested in what was otherwise a very ignored condition.
 
ASHER: Talk to us about how former President Carter was moved to involve himself in this type of work. I understand that he went on a trip to Ghana 
 
 in the 1980s. And he was really touched and saddened by seeing people who had guinea worm. And for people who don't know who are watching at home, 
 
 guinea worm is actually caused by drinking contaminated water. And as a result, people form blisters on their skin.
 
And after a few weeks, the blister burst and literally a worm comes out of their skin. I mean, it's really difficult to sort of see videos -- 
 
RICHARDS: Yes.
 
ASHER: -- of people who have guinea worm.
 
RICHARDS: Yes. One meter long worm.
 
ASHER: One -- exactly. One meter long. Just talk to us about, you know, how he sort of got the idea and the impetus and the drive and the passion to 
 
 work towards eliminating these two diseases.
 
RICHARDS: Well, yes, so, guinea worm is another condition that we call a neglected tropical disease. And it's neglected because it largely afflicts 
 
 the poor, the disenfranchised, the rural people. And politicians in the countries often ignore these folks.
 
And what President Carter was able to do, and the guinea worm trip to Ghana that you mentioned, and also several trips that he's taken to other 
 
 countries, not just for guinea worm, but for river blindness and trachoma and schistosomiasis, all neglected tropical diseases.
 
And his purpose was to utilize his access to enlist politicians, national politicians, local politicians in the fight against these conditions, 
 
 essentially by having them come with him, urging them, controlling them, to come with him to the field, leave the office, get in the Land Rover, drive 
 
 a few hours out to see for themselves the suffering caused by these conditions.
 
And that never would have happened if you hadn't had a former president of the United States show up in your office and basically shame, if you will, 
 
 the politicians into coming. I -- the United States, can't you come a couple of hours out and see what's happening? And that really translated 
 
 into enormous political will and a commitment by a number of different African leaders and American leaders to work with President Carter and a 
 
 partnership to ultimately achieve elimination of these conditions. That's happened with guinea worm.
 
ASHER: Yes. I mean, it's very, very close to being eliminated, guinea worm. I mean, when he first sort of discovered the sickness, it had about 300, 
 
 three million, rather, people being affected across the world now.
 
RICHARDS: 3.2 million. Yes -- 
 
ASHER: Right, 3.2 million. That's just a handful. Basically almost completely eradicated.
 
RICHARDS: Can you imagine? I mean, that's -- 
 
ASHER: Right.
 
RICHARDS: -- 99.999. All the little decimals we want to give toward that success.
 
ASHER: All right. Dr. Frank Richards, former Carter Center senior adviser, thank you so much for being with us.
 
RICHARDS: Thank you for having me.
 
ASHER: Of course. All right. Supporters of President Trump are feuding over the visa program for high-skilled tech workers. What the fight says about 
 
 incoming administration and the future of the work visa program.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:40]
 
ASHER: U.S. President-elect Donald Trump is defending a visa program for foreign workers that has sparked a fierce food -- feud, rather, among his 
 
 supporters.
 
For several days now, anti-immigration hardliners have been sparring online with Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy over the future of the H-1B visa 
 
 program. Those visas allow highly skilled foreign workers, like tech engineers, for example, to work in the U.S.
 
Over the weekend, Trump stepped into the debate as well. Despite the backlash, he's actually standing by Musk, who once held an H-1B visa 
 
 himself.
 
CNN's Alayna Treene is live for us in West Palm Beach, Florida.
 
So, Alayna, before we get to the debate about H-1B visas, I do want to talk about Mike Johnson, the current House Speaker, because he has a majorly 
 
 uphill reelection battle. The election is this Friday. How much of a difference will an endorsement by Trump make for him do you think? 
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Oh, this is a massive boost for Mike Johnson. It will definitely make a difference for him. Especially so many 
 
 Republicans right now in the House are eager, you know, to be on Donald Trump's good side before he is sworn into office on January 20th.
 
Now, one thing that was uncertain was it wasn't clear if Donald Trump was actually going to weigh in on this and put his finger on the scale or kind 
 
 of allow Mike Johnson to twist in the wind and try to bind to the votes himself.
 
But as of this morning, we've learned that Donald Trump has given him his full endorsement. I want to read for you what he posted on Truth Social. He 
 
 said, quote, let's not blow this great opportunity which we have been given. The American people need immediate relief from all of the 
 
 destructive policies of the last administration. Speaker Mike Johnson is a good, hardworking, religious man. He will do the right thing and we will 
 
 continue to win. Mike has my complete and total endorsement. MAGA.
 
Now, look, part of the reason I think it was unclear whether or not Donald Trump was going to weigh in on this is because just the week before the 
 
 holidays, before members of Congress flew back for the holiday recess, Donald Trump actually came up against Mike Johnson when he, at the 11th 
 
 hour, kind of blew up that spending deal that Johnson had negotiated with the Senate as well as Democrats.
 
However, as we -- I just read, Donald Trump is now saying that he supports him. And part of the thinking behind this, I'm told, is that -- and he kind 
 
 of reiterated this in his post this morning, is Trump believes that he has a mandate to run Washington once he is sworn in. And he really wants 
 
 someone in the speaker role who is going to be a loyal ally to him and Mike Johnson has tried for months now to show Donald Trump that he is a loyal 
 
 servant to him. So that's where some of this comes down from.
 
But again, there are still some Republicans and some conservatives in the House who are skeptical of Johnson. But as of now, there's only one hard no 
 
 on him, and that is Rep. Thomas Massie.
 
ASHER: And, Alayna, just in terms of the other news we're following about H-1B visas and visa program for highly skilled foreign workers, especially 
 
 tech engineers, for example, we talked about the fact that Elon Musk came in on a tech, on an H-1B visa.
 
Just talk to us about how Trump's views on this particular issue has evolved over the past few years. I mean, he had a very different stance 
 
 about this during his first term. It really does show you the power of Elon Musk.
 
TREENE: It does. And I do want to take a step back to just like kind of lay out why this is actually an issue of contention right now, because on one 
 
 hand you have some of the MAGA faithful, the MAGA diehards, those who are very loyal supporters of Donald Trump, many of whom were attracted to him 
 
 because of his hardline immigration policies and his America First agenda.
 <br>[12:50:06]
 
But then you also have kind of the Silicon Valley latecomers who supported Donald Trump in this most recent election who also rely on these high-
 
 skilled foreign workers for their own businesses.
 
Now, in the past, as you mentioned, Donald Trump has been against H-1B visas. Actually, in his first campaign in 2016, he argued that American 
 
 companies should prioritize American workers, not foreign workers.
 
However, he recently came out saying he supports the H-1B visa program and that he agrees with Elon Musk. All this just showing how powerful and 
 
 influential Musk continues to be as a Donald Trump ally, one of his leading allies.
 
But also, you know, kind of raising questions over how Donald Trump will rule on a policy angle once he is actually in office, Zain.
 
ASHER: All right. Alayna Treene, live for us there. Thank you. We'll have much more news after this break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. In less than 24 hours, Anderson Cooper and Andy Cohen will be helping Americans and the world ring in 2025. They're hosting CNN's 
 
 New Year's Eve celebration together for the eighth consecutive time. Over the years, the pair have certainly had their share of memorable moments and 
 
 a lot of giggles. Here's a look back.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COHEN: We've been here for seven years doing this.
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: Right.
 
COHEN: And for most of those years -- 
 
COOPER: Are you asking about alcohol?
 
COHEN: Well -- 
 
OK. I'm going to run through various locations. And I want to know if you have gotten high in them, OK?
 
Have you gotten high at the White House?
 
SNOOP DOGG: Yes, yes, yes.
 
COHEN: Yes.
 
JOHN MAYER, AMERICAN SINGER: We are at a cat bar. It's called Cats in the Box in Tokyo.
 
COHEN: Guys, Happy New Year. It's our first shot tonight.
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
COHEN: You guys at home, play along. One, two, three.
 
Oh, I hate it. Pickle juice.
 
COOPER: I've never had a pickle.
 
COHEN: You've never had a pickle? What? Sweetie, you've had a pickle.
 
That felt good. That felt good.
 
OK. Have you gotten high at Martha Stewart's house?
 
COOPER: What is happening?
 
COHEN: I have no genitalia anymore. It's gone.
 
COOPER: Stop. That's -- Jesus.
 
COHEN: Wow.
 
COOPER: Everybody home.
 
50 CENT, AMERICAN RAPPER: Happy New Year, guys.
 
COOPER: Thank you. Happy -- 50, thank you so much. Have a great New Year.
 
COHEN: Thanks, 50. Come by the club out soon.
 
COOPER: I didn't want to explode in front of 50 Cent.
 
COHEN: Barbara Walters, are you headed back to The View?
 <br>[12:55:03]
 
BARBARA WALTERS, AMERICAN BROADCASTER: Not necessarily, Andrew. Although I do miss Joy poking fun at me behind my back. Whoopi's questionable footwear 
 
 and sassy black quips.
 
Most of all, I miss being feared.
 
COOPER: There's shoe? What the heck?
 
COHEN: I need tequila. Honestly.
 
You're in the bar, and there are cats -- 
 
MAYER: Yes.
 
COHEN: -- everywhere. They are licking each other.
 
MAYER: There are cats.
 
COHEN: There -- I mean, yes.
 
MAYER: Yes. This is a place you can come, enjoy a drink or two and talk to cats. It's a cat bar. I mean, I don't know -- 
 
COHEN: John -- 
 
MAYER: -- how much more clear I can be about the objective of this place.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: And CNN will have special coverage of New Year's Eve across the globe. Tune in December 31st at midday. That's if you're watching from 
 
 London. 8:00 P.M. if you're watching from Hong Kong to follow all the festivities. All the way from the fireworks in Sydney, Australia to that 
 
 major ball drop at midnight in New York City.
 
And that does it for this hour of ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher. I appreciate you watching. Remembering Jimmy Carter is up next. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:00:00]
 
END