Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Danny Danon is Interviewed about a Ceasefire Deal. Harris Team Breaks it Silence; Trump Prepares for Return; Bryan West is Interviewed about Taylor Swift. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired November 27, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:30:38] 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: All right, welcome back. 
 
A U.S.-backed ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon appears to be holding. It's been about ten hours now. But the Lebanese army and Israeli forces are warning civilians not to return to their homes near the Israel-Lebanon border just yet. Israeli forces moved into southern Lebanon to push back Hezbollah fighters a few months ago, forcing entire towns and villages to flee. 
 
This morning, some of those residents have returned. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hailing the ceasefire as a victory, but warning he will strike the region again if Hezbollah violates the deal. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): And now Hezbollah is no longer. And it will help us with the task of bringing our hostages back. We were attacked in seven fronts, and we retaliated. We are changing the face of the Middle East.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: All right, joining us now is Danny Danon, Israel's ambassador to the U.N. 
 
Mr. Ambassador, thank you very much for being with us this morning. 
 
I want to ask you about how this ceasefire came to be and why now. We heard from President Biden yesterday, of course, taking a degree of credit, praising what has happened here. Of course, we also know that former President Donald Trump, now President-elect Trump, waiting in the wings to come in here. Why do you think Prime Minister Netanyahu was willing to make this deal now? And did it have - did it have more to do with President Biden or President-elect Trump?
 
AMB. DANNY DANON, FORMER ISRAELI DEPUTY MINISTER OF DEFENSE AND ISRAELI AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS: Good morning, Kasie. Well, I think, you know, with all due respect to both presidents, the
 
 main reason is what happened on the ground. We were able to degrade the capabilities of Hezbollah to eliminate their leadership and basically to push them - push them north of the Litani River. That's what the goal of this operation. We didn't start this war. They - they want - they chose to join Hamas on October 8th without a provocation. And Hassan Nasrallah, the former leader that we eliminated, he said that there will be a linkage between the war with Lebanon and the war in Gaza. And what we saw today, we broke that linkage. We have a ceasefire with Lebanon. And now it will allow us to focus on Gaza and hopefully to eliminate Hamas (INAUDIBLE).
 
HUNT: So, speaking of Gaza, we actually did hear from Hamas just in the last hour or two in the context of the Lebanon - of Lebanon ceasefire agreement. And they say this, quote, "they have a commitment to cooperating with any efforts to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza," end quote. "A commitment to cooperating." 
 
What do you read into those words? And do you feel that Hamas is ready to be at the table in a significant way to negotiate a ceasefire and hostage release deal? 
 
DANON: Well, first of all, I don't believe them. You know, for the last 14 months, they lied so many times. They are still holding our hostages without even, you know, allowing the Red Cross or anyone to visit them. We don't know who's alive, who's not. And we're talking about babies and women. 
 
So, it's a disgrace. But one thing I can tell you, Hamas planned that they will have support from Tehran, from Hezbollah, and they believe that they will actually be able to get the entire radical axis to join them. And today they realize that Hezbollah is not in the game anymore. I hope it will actually allow the negotiations to resume. We are willing to negotiate. We want to see the hostages coming home. We will not stop the war until we will bring them back home. 
 
HUNT: Do you think that the terms of this deal for Hamas will be - if - if we get to one eventually would be materially different under a Biden administration here in the U.S. than a Trump administration?
 
DANON: Well, we are not waiting, you know. We're thinking about the hostages. You know, we don't know how many of them are still alive. So, we are not waiting. We are continuing to apply military pressure. And, at the same time, to try to negotiate a deal to release them. 
 
So, when you speak about the transition here, we're talking about two months from today. It's a long time for the people who are in the dungeons for 14 months. So, we will not wait for that. Hopefully we will see some progress before the transition. 
 
HUNT: All right, Danny Danon. Mr. Ambassador, thank you very much for being with us this morning. I appreciate it.
 <br>[06:35:03]
 
DANON: Thank you, Kasie. HUNT: All right, let's turn now back to domestic politics. 
 
Kamala Harris and Tim Walz urging their supporters to keep up the fight on a call with grassroots organizers yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: I know this is an uncertain time. I'm clear eyed about that. I know you're clear eyed about it. And it feels heavy. And I just have to remind you, don't you ever let anybody take your power from you. You have the same power that you did before November 5th.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Three weeks after losing the election, Harris' team is speaking out for the first time in a wide-ranging interview with Pod Save America's Dan Pfeiffer, former senior adviser to Barack Obama, four senior members of the Harris campaign discussed what they think went wrong. One major hurdle they say, they only had 107 days, and they say that impacted decisions like the number of interviews she could do. 
 
Trump, on the other hand, of course, made it part of his campaign to appear across several popular podcasts. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENT-ELECT: One of the things I like about doing a show like this - can you imagine Kamala doing this show? She'd be -
 
JOE ROGAN, HOST, "THE JOE ROGAN EXPERIENCE": I could imagine her doing this show.
 
TRUMP: She'd be laying -
 
ROGAN: I tried -
 
TRUMP: She'd be laying on the floor -
 
ROGAN: She was supposed to do it. And she might still do it. 
 
TRUMP: She wasn't going to do it.
 
ROGAN: And I hope she does. 
 
TRUMP: She's not going to do it.
 
ROGAN: I will talk to her like a human being. I will try to have a conversation with her.
 
TRUMP: If she did this kind of an interview with you - I hope she does because it would be a mess. She'd be laying on the floor comatose. She'd - you'd be saying, call in the medics.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) HUNT: Harris' team addressed whether she should have gone on Joe Rogan's podcast and tried to explain why it never happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHANIE CUTTER, SENIOR ADVISER TO VP HARRIS: Yes, there's a lot of intrigue around this. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
CUTTER: A lot of theories. It's - it's pretty simple, we wanted to do it. 
 
We had discussions with Joe Rogan's team. They were great. They wanted us to come on. We wanted to come on. We tried to get a date to make it work and, ultimately, we just weren't able to find a date. 
 
But it, you know, didn't ultimately impact the outcome one way or the other.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: They say they just couldn't find a date there and that, you know, they - they don't think it would have impacted the outcome one way or the other. 
 
James Carville weighed in on this question in recent days. Let's watch what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES CARVILLE, VETERAN DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: The vice president was thinking about going on Joe Rogan's show. And a lot of the younger progressive staffers pitched a hissy fit. 
 
If I were running a 2028 campaign and I had some little snot nosed 23- year-old saying I'm going to resign if you don't do this, not only would I fire that (EXPLETIVE DELETED) on the spot, I would find out who hired them and fire that person on the spot. I'm really not interested in your uninformed, stupid (EXPLETIVE DELETED) opinion as to whether you go on Joe Rogan or not. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: OK. So, Hyma, you have the unfortunate position as being for the person who has to explain and answer for all of this for us today. 
 
HYMA MOORE, FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF TO DNC CHAIR JAMIE HARRISON: He (ph) knows a lot.
 
HUNT: What - what did go wrong?
 
MOORE: Yes.
 
Look, I hate these postmortems. And Mike and I have been talking about this. And this is going to go on for weeks and weeks and weeks. There were a myriad of things that happened over the course of the
 
 last four years, and even eight years that led to what happened on November 5th. 
 
Look, two things that stand out to me. I think - I think my friends on the Kamala campaign are correct, 107 days is not enough time to run for president. That's just a fact. And on the other side, Donald Trump has now run three times. This is the third Democratic nominee that he's run against. And so Donald Trump has run - run for president three times. And he's been able to seed his messaging a lot more strongly than any of our candidates have been because we've switched over each of the three times. 
 
And so, I do believe that Vice President Harris ran a tremendous campaign. And I think she was as good of a candidate as she could have been. Now, granted, let's pull back the layers a little bit. Should she have done Joe Rogan? Yes, she should have. Would it have changed the election? Probably not. 
 
And so I think - and, like, I'm going to steal something that Mike and I were talking about, and Mario during the green room. I think here's the overarching theme, you've got to meet voters where they are. You can't try to lead them to where you want them to go. And I think time and time again Democrats, and particularly this past campaign, we were trying to lead a high-minded campaign and talk about issues that we thought were important to people. But come to find out, that's not what people wanted to talk about. People wanted to talk about immigration. They wanted to feel safe. They wanted to talk about inflation. 
 
And look, all these numbers that, you know, these indicators that were talking about today seem to be doing better right now. And I think if we had a couple more days or weeks, I do believe Kamala Harris and Joe Biden could have got that message out a little bit more saliently. And then, of course, vice president - or Governor Walz was - did a great job, too. 
 
MARIO PARKER, MANAGING EDITOR FOR ECONOMY AND GOVERNMENT, "BLOOMBERG": And just to Hyma's point, I mean, there's a couple of things, right? We talked about immigration earlier in this segment. We saw Governor Abbott, he was arguably the unsung hero of this political campaign, right, by bringing immigration to the fore. 
 
When you look at Donald Trump's, what he's arguing is a mandate for a second term based off of the margin of victory that he had over Vice President Harris. I mean you look at some of those blue states, that's what's emboldening him. 
 <br>[06:40:02]
 
And that's also the warning sign, I think, for the Democrats, right, because it is immigration. It is inflation. 
 
She was quite defensive, as was Biden. When Hyma mentioned some of the indicators, right? President Biden, before Harris, assumed a mantle, which is, come out and talk about all of these statistics from the economic council, et cetera, and Americans aren't feeling that when they go to the grocery store and pay for eggs and bread and all those other things. And Vice President Harris, I think the campaign fell a little bit short of understanding and being able to articulate American's pain. 
 
HUNT: Yes, so let's dig in a little bit more on, Stephen, in particular there, of course, we've put a lot of time on - it was an ad that was framed around trans issues, right, that the Trump campaign put a lot of money behind. And it was, you know, Kamala Harris is for they/them, Trump is for you. 
 
Here was how Quentin Fulks, who was on the campaign, as well as David Plouffe, explained that in this postmortem. Let's watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUENTIN FULKS, DEPUTY CAMPAIGN MANAGER, HARRIS FOR PRESIDENT: Obviously it was a very effective ad at the end. I ultimately don't believe that it was about the issue of trans. I think that it made her seem out of touch. And it was sort of a pseudo economic ad underneath it. 
 
DAVID PLOUFFE, SENIOR ADVISER TO VP HARRIS: At the end of the day, we were spending a lot of time with voters in these battleground states, both quantitatively and quantitatively. And this trans ad was not driving voters.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: So, he says the ad's not driving votes. But when you listen to what Quentin said there, it's - I mean - I'm sure that they were testing the trans issue in a straightforward way. But if the ad's about way more than that, it doesn't necessarily line up.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER: Right. And it's amazing how often an election, it's like, one or two things that, oh, we lost because of that. But go back to the Virginia governor's race in 2021. The issues in that race were inflation, trans kids in sports and immigration, even in Virginia it was an issue. That completely prefigured this election. And I think because the Democrats did better than everyone thought they would in the midterm elections, that people kind of forgot that. 
 
But I think the -
 
HUNT: And that's why we ended up with 170 day campaign, by the way. I'm sorry, I didn't -
 
COLLINSON: Right, but I think the election was probably lost three years ago when the White House was saying inflation was transitory when everyone knew it wasn't, and they were saying there wasn't a border crisis when there was. 
 
HUNT: Do you agree? 
 
MIKE DUBKE, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: I mean - oh, yes, I agree. I also think there were parental issues in that - in that gubernatorial race in 2021. I mean it was a - let me put it to you - there's so many places I could go with this. But let me - let me just put it in this context. When you have - the they/them was the important line in that - in that ad. It had less to do with the transgender issue and more with the they/them, the wokeness. 
 
When you juxtapose Vice President Harris and Beyonce against Donald Trump at either McDonald's or wearing an orange vest in a garbage truck, that is - that was the difference in the election. And it had everything to do with the economy. But it also had to do with who is speaking directly to the voters. And you had Donald Trump doing what Democrats have done for decades, speaking directly to working class voters. And the Harris campaign either ignored them, didn't think they needed them. I don't know what their idea was there, but they - they made a vibe election bet. He made a base election unvoted, you know, low propensity voter bet. And he won.
 
HUNT: For sure. 
 
All right, Stephen Collinson, Mario Parker, Hyma Moore, Mike Dubke, thank you all very much for joining me this morning. I appreciate it. 
 
PARKER: Good to see you.
 
HUNT: Happy Thanksgiving to all of you.
 
MOORE: Good seeing you.
 
HUNT: All right, coming up next here on CNN THIS MORNING, a smooth transition promised just a few weeks ago. How cooperation from this sitting president is looking different from what we saw four years ago. 
 
Plus, a curtain call. Taylor Swift's Era's Tour is coming to a close. What's next on the agenda for the global superstar.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:47:59]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENT-ELECT: Politics is tough. And it's, in many cases, not a very nice world. But it is a nice world today. And I appreciate it very much. A transition that's so smooth it will be as smooth as it can get. And I very much appreciate that. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Well, Mr. President-elect, and former president, and, Donald, congratulations.
 
TRUMP: Thank you very much.
 
BIDEN: And looking forward to having a, like we said, a smooth transition.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: A smooth transition. The promise from Joe Biden to Donald Trump in the Oval Office. Despite that conversation being two weeks ago, Trump's transition team has only just signed the paperwork with the White House allowing for Trump team members to get access to certain information ahead of Inauguration Day. 
 
Transition cooperation from the sitting president was something that Joe Biden famously did not receive from the man who is now returning to the White House when he was leaving back in 2020. In fact, on this day four years ago, Trump was furiously tweeting and retweeting, 34 times, to be exact, things like how machines, quote, "gave Biden thousands of votes," or how, quote, "the 2020 election was a total scam" with, quote, "massive voter fraud." 
 
And it was this week four years ago when Donald Trump spoke with reporters publicly for the first time since his election defeat, which led to a heated 25 minute exchange filled with falsehoods and anger at the media.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENT-ELECT: There's tremendous fraud here. 
 
It was a rigged election. 
 
We caught them cheating. We caught them stealing. We caught a fraudulent effort to get votes.
 
At the highest level it was a rigged election. 
 
Don't talk to - I'm the president of the United States. Don't ever talk to the president that way. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: All right, joining us now to talk about the state of Trump world on this Thanksgiving week, Maggie Haberman, senior political correspondent for "The New York Times" and a CNN political analyst. 
 
Maggie, I'm thrilled to have you. There's no one I'd rather talk to. 
 
Can you just take us inside the state of - of the Trump transition right now, including, I mean, are they happy with how the White House has been handling this? And, you know, the - we've been talking this morning a lot about this ceasefire deal between Hezbollah and Israel. 
 <br>[06:50:05]
 
And, of course, the Trump team has been briefed on that. I'm curious if you know anything about how - if they were involved with it, et cetera?
 
MAGGIE HABERMAN, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: I have no information, Kasie, as to whether they're involved with that - with that particular ceasefire deal. Certainly, what you have not seen is Donald Trump, you know, posting on social media or objecting to it or saying something that would have scuttled it. 
 
And so, I do think there is a mindfulness on the Trump team about what's happening on the world stage, not exacerbating certain problems. You know, when Trump wants to object to something that the current White House is doing, he makes it pretty clear.
 
This is also not, you know, the more elaborate ceasefire deal with Gaza that the current White House would like to see. And so, this is of slightly lesser concern. 
 
HUNT: Yes. So, Maggie, we, obviously, are preparing for Trump to move back to town here in Washington. And there are all these questions about how access to him is going to be managed and what that means for governance. And you and your colleague, Jonathan Swan, had this fascinating story about this one particular aide whose name is Natalie Harp. And you - I remember her coming up when Donald Trump was on trial in New York. And she was described as a human printer who walks around with a printer, prints out, you know, articles for him to see, is really somebody who is bringing information to him on a regular basis. 
 
And you had these fascinating letters that she had written to Donald Trump. She had said, quote, "you are all that matters to me." She had said, "I don't want to ever let you down." "I want to bring you joy, to feel like we can get through a day without ever having to talk work." And she called Mr. Trump her "guardian and protector in this life." 
 
Who is this person? What implications does her closeness with Donald Trump have for the American people?
 
HABERMAN: Well, I think the - the closeness is significant because, number one, she is now going into the White House. 
 
She's been written about before, Kasie. And in a normal circumstance, a more junior aide would not be a subject of interest. But she is going into the White House, expected to sit likely in the outer Oval, which is right outside the Oval Office. But she's significant because she supplies him with what has generally been the sort of unfettered stream of unvetted information. And at times, many times, that has led to social media posts that other people in Trump's orbit have been alarmed by, or would have rather not had get out, you know, such as the 40 some odd posts that he did on the eve of his second trial involving E. Jean Carroll, who had accused him of a rape decades earlier, the civil trial that was held in New York. That's just one example. There are many. 
 
You know, she is said to have been working more within a chain of command within the last couple of weeks of the campaign. But the new White House is different. And so that's why it's significant. 
 
As we know, Trump often would get information that was not vetted from, you know, questionable sources while he was president and in the interregnum between these two presidencies. And so what he does with that information, who he's listening to is always of importance.
 
HUNT: For real. 
 
Maggie, before I let you go, I want to ask you about one other figure who you - you had covered I think well before, I would imagine, Donald Trump actually was, you know, in the Oval Office, but, obviously, he was a figure during the first Trump administration, and that is, of course, Rudy Giuliani. 
 
I want to show you what - what he had to say after court this week. Let's watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER TRUMP ATTORNEY: The reality is, I have no cash. It's all tied up. So, right now, if I wanted to call a taxicab, I can't do it. I don't have a credit card. I don't have a checking account. I have no place I can go take cash out, except the little bit that I saved. And it's getting down to almost nothing. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: This is the man who was the mayor of New York City in the wake of September 11th. And now there were reports his refrigerator in his Miami condo was repossessed in this court case that he's - he's dealing with. And it's all because of his association with Donald Trump. 
 
HABERMAN: Well, to a point, Kasie. I mean, you know, I covered Rudy Giuliani in his second term. I covered most of that term when I was working for "The New York Post." And he would -- at city hall. And he was, you know, a very different - in some ways very different than what you're seeing here. In some ways not. There are aspects of this version of Rudy Giuliani that have always existed. You know, he did what was a widely praised job leading the city right after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which was a terrifying time in this city. He has always been conspiracy minded. He has always had an openness to power and to access to power. 
 
So, yes, on the one hand, it's Donald Trump. On the other hand, I don't know that anybody forced Rudy Giuliani to go do the things for which he was found to have defamed two women who people - no one had ever heard of before until he started throwing their names around. 
 <br>[06:55:10]
 
And so, you know, yes, there are a lot of people who like Rudy Giuliani, who hear him say things like that and they feel very bad. 
 
What's always missing, and it's understandable, he's almost 80 - you know, an 80 year old man, or however old he is now, but it's also - there's never any sense of, you know, how he got into this position, which are actions he took himself. And so, yes, it was in the service of Donald Trump,, but he - these were - he - he had agency here and he is a grown man.
 
HUNT: He is a grown man. I very much appreciate that assessment. 
 
Maggie Haberman, very grateful to have you. Thank you very much. 
 
HABERMAN: Thanks. 
 
HUNT: All right, let's turn now to this, Taylor Swift's massive worldwide Era's Tour coming to an end. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAYLOR SWIFT, MUSICIAN (singing): Floor. All the pieces of me shattered as the crowd was chanting more. I was grinning like I'm winning. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: She's set to take the stage just three more times during her final stop in Vancouver, Canada, next weekend. During her second to last stop in Toronto last weekend, she got emotional and thanked everyone who has been a part of the show.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAYLOR SWIFT, MUSICIAN: It's not even the last show. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: I was lucky enough to actually have attended that particular show. Now, though, that the Era's Tour is wrapping up, all the Swifties are left wondering, what's next for their favorite superstar? 
 
On Friday, a book dedicated to the tour is going to go on sale. It's going to be exclusively at Target. "The Atlantic" reports this, quote, "her publisher is listed as Taylor Swift Publications. The superstar is bypassing traditional publishers, and she is releasing her book herself. This perhaps isn't so shocking, she loves to cut out a middleman." 
 
"USA Today's" dedicated Taylor Swift reporter Bryan West reports that there might be some other clues about what's coming down the pipeline for Swift. He writes this, quote, "for the superstar who goes to great lengths to keep her next business move secret, one public record might help decipher what's next for Taylor Swift: trademarks." 
 
Bryan West joins us now on this Thanksgiving eve. 
 
Bryan, good morning. Thank you so much for being here. 
 
Fascinating, all of it. What do we know about what might be next for Taylor? 
 
BRYAN WEST, TAYLOR SWIFT REPORTER, "USA TODAY"/GANNETT: Good morning, Kasie. Great to be here as well. 
 
So, what we know with Taylor is that she's always future minded. She plans ahead. She has her next few years planned out. And one of the keys to figuring out what she might be up to is filings in the trademark office. So, I spoke with the United States Patent and Trademark Office about some of the filings that she had this year, including - and some of the filings that will end up having to be of substance this year. So, what I mean by that is, let's start first with the filings this year. She filed "Female Rage," the musical. She filed "Taylor Con." And then also filed "A Girl Named Girl," which is a book that she wrote about when she was a preteen. 
 
A lot of fans are wondering, though, about her re-records. And she filed those back in 2022. When it comes to the trademark process, you end up getting a notice of allowance from the USPTO, and that basically means that you can - you passed all the examination process. And so that happened on August 16, 2022. The challenge is, when you file a trademark and you don't necessarily have the product, the good or service in commerce, you have to prove how you're (INAUDIBLE) with reputation, Taylor's version and Taylor Swift Taylor's version is even with extensions she has to prove that she's using those trademarks by August 16th of this next year or else the trademark is abandoned. 
 
HUNT: OK. So, I guess we're looking - we-re looking for those things coming up next.
 
Bryan, I mean, one of the most impressive things about her is that she does manage to, because of the strength of her own brand and her own business acumen, I mean, she wasn't working for a movie - with movie distributors, classic movie distributors to get her movie out in theaters. Now she's doing this as well with a book.
 
WEST: That's right. So, what we did see during, of course, the SAG- AFTRA strikes is that Taylor just cut out the middle person, went straight to AMC Distribution, and that was how she was able to get her movie. We're seeing now with the book that she's going straight to the publisher. So - and this is already expecting high demand. Target is saying that there's a limit already because of the high demand. So, if you're standing in line on Friday morning, you can't get more than four copies of this book. And so, it does seem that she's just, you know, doing it by herself. 
 
HUNT: Yes, I mean it's really - I will say, the thing that sort of blew my mind - many things blew my mind at this - at this concert. I mean she's just an unbelievably phenomenal powerhouse of a performer. I mean it was astonishing to see. 
 
But the merch lines, my goodness, like, good luck getting a sweatshirt that's not like a, you know, an extra large because people are so devoted to all of this. 
 
Bryan West, I'm very grateful to have you on this - on this Thanksgiving eve. 
 <br>[07:00:00]
 
And I hope you'll come back. I hope there's reasons for you to come back because I'm excited to see what Taylor's going to do next.
 
WEST: Especially after this next concert. HUNT: I know, for sure. Yes, let's do it. It's a date. 
 
Thank you again. 
 
All right, thanks - we're going to say thanks to our panel, obviously, has already gone off to enjoy their holiday. Thanks to you as well for watching. I hope you have a very happy Thanksgiving with your loved ones. 
 
I am Kasie Hunt. Don't go anywhere. CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)