Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: U.S. Warns Against Rafah Invasion; Trump Leads in Polling; Trump Ahead of Biden in Key States; Putin Replaces Defense Minister; Steve Buscemi Punched in New York City Streets; Cohen Takes the Stand Today. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired May 13, 2024 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:30:00] 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Than one million people who have found refuge in that area as this war has continued. That is why the administration has been pushing Israel to adopt some type of credible plan to evacuate these civilians who are there. And it's also part of the reason why President Biden decided to pause a shipment of some major weapons to Israel, including about 3,500 bombs and as well - as well as warning about the potential that they could withhold further weaponry going forward. 
 
But Secretary of State Antony Blinken, over the weekend, really issued some of his sharpest criticism yet of Israel's handling of the war, of their considerations regarding Rafah, saying that there isn't a plan in place to evacuated civilians, but also there's no plan for what happens in Gaza once this war ends.
 
Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE: We believe two things. One, you have to have a clear, credible plan to protect civilians, which we haven't seen. Second, we also need to see a plan for what happens after this conflict in Gaza open - is over. And we still haven't seen that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAENZ: Now, one of Blinken's warnings over the weekend is that an Israeli invasion into Rafah could potentially lead to an insurgence Hamas and potentially create a power vacuum in the area as well. 
 
Now, both Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, over the past 24 hours, have held phone calls with some of their Israeli counterparts. In Sullivan's call a width Israel's national security adviser, he once again warned about going into Rafah, warning that there needs to be some type of credible plans in place. And the White House readout of the call said that the Israelis assured Sullivan that they were taking U.S. concerns into consideration as they are mapping out their next plans. 
 
But certainly the White House is watching all of this incredibly closely as they have great concern about what could happen to the civilians in Rafah if Israel were to launch a major operation there.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: The White House watching, of course. The world watching as well.
 
Arlette Saenz, thank you so much for your reporting there from the White House. 
 
Kate and Harry.
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Hello.
 
SIDNER: Hello.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: This being -- this being one of the - one big issue in the election as well. And I say that because we are just 176 days away from the presidential election now. There's new polling out this morning from "The New York Times" showing Donald Trump with an edge over President Biden in some key battleground states.
 
CNN's Harry Enten, obviously, is standing right here staring at all of you here with me now.
 
ENTEN: Scary.
 
BOLDUAN: Well, you are a terrifying man. 
 
ENTEN: Boo (ph).
 
BOLDUAN: OK, talk to me about the new pulling out from "The New York Times." What is it telling you? 
 
ENTEN: Yes, I think it's essentially saying that we have a divide between the sunbelt and Great Lake battleground states, all right. You know, these are all six states that Joe Biden won last time around. They won them by the closest margin of any of these states he won.
 
Look, these sunbelt battleground states, frankly for the Joe Biden campaign, these numbers are an absolute disaster. The smallest lead is in Arizona for Donald Trump. He's up six. Look at this, nine in Georgia, 13 in Nevada. My goodness, gracious, my God, that is a hugely lead. No Democrat has lost that state since John Kerry lost it back in 2004.
 
How about these Great Lake battleground states? This is something that the Joe Biden campaign can work with. Look, Pennsylvania, Donald Trump up three, but that's well within the margin of error. Wisconsin, Donald Trump up one, well within the margin of error. And actually a Joe Biden lead well within the margin of error up a point here. This they can work with, the Joe Biden campaign. This, the Donald campaign - Donald Trump campaign absolutely loves. And it looks like a lot of the other polling out of sunbelt battle as well.
 
BOLDUAN: When you're looking into the numbers, why do you think Biden is doing better in the Great Lakes and Trump is doing so much better in the sunbelt. ENTEN: Yes, the Trump coalition is changing. That's basically what's
 
 cooking here. This is at least one of the big reasons why. So, this is among likely voters in these - in all these battleground states we just spoke about.
 
Back in 2020, 84 percent of the Trump campaign's - the Trump coalition was white. Look where it is now. It's 78 percent. The non-white portion of the Trump coalition, it was 13 percent in 2020. Look at this now, it's 19 percent. So, the Trump coalition is becoming more diverse. And, of course, those sunbelt battleground states are more diverse than the Great Lake battleground states. 
 
BOLDUAN: You're talking about - you're looking at the Nevadas and the Arizonas here?
 
ENTEN: Of course. If you look at Nevada, Arizona, heavy Hispanic population, Georgia, heavily African American population. With the - Michigan does have some black voters in it, but Pennsylvania and Wisconsin are heavily, heavily white.
 
BOLDUAN: That's very interesting. OK, add it all up. What does this say about where the race stands right now? We're talking Electoral College and the race to 270. 
 
ENTEN: Yes, the race to 270. It's advantage Donald Trump. But he's not over the 270 mark just yet, all right. So, if we flip Nevada, Arizona and Georgia here in your lighter shades of pink, you add them to the states and, of course, the second congressional district up in Maine, which Donald Trump won last time around, that gets him to 268 electoral votes. If we keep Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania in the too close to call category, along with Nebraska's second congressional district, Joe Biden at 225. 
 <br>[08:35:05]
 
So, it's advantaged Donald Trump, but Joe Biden does, at this point, have a path to 270.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. And right now, as you're pointing out, neither. 
 
ENTEN: Yes.
 
BOLDUAN: Neither there.
 
ENTEN: Neither there.
 
BOLDUAN: And we have a long road to its still.
 
ENTEN: Yes, we do.
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you, Harry. 
 
ENTEN: Thank you.
 
BOLDUAN: John. JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, with me now, CNN's senior
 
 political commentator Van Jones and Republican strategist Matt Gorman, making his debut on the morning edition of CNN NEWS CENTRAL. Matt, it's taken you so long to come on, I'm going to make you wait.
 
So, this first question is for you, Van.
 
That poll from "The New York Times," let me read you, Van, a section of their write-up there. It says, "Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden are essentially tied among 18 to 29-year-olds and Hispanic voters, even though each group gave Mr. Biden more than 60 percent of their vote in 2020. Mr. Trump also wins more than 20 percent of black voters, a tally that would be the highest level of black support for any Republican presidential candidates since the enactment of the Civil Rights Act in 1964." 
 
Thats some paragraph about swing-state polls a few months before the election, Van.
 
VAN JONES, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes, I mean, it's a - it should be a wakeup call. Young people are upset. And it's not just the situation in Gaza. The economic prospects for young people are miserable. It's not - and that's been building under Obama, it's been building under Trump, it's building under Biden. We just do not have a pathway for young people to be able to pay off their student debt, get a house. People are look at this AI wave and are worried about what job, what career path. And so that pain has to be spoken to directly and specifically. And I think that we're not - we're not yet feeling - hearing a full-throated approach to the young people. There's a symbolic piece around student loans. That's not going to be enough for Joe Biden.
 
BERMAN: Very quickly, Van, because I want - I do want to get to Matt here, who's been waiting patiently, what has Biden done right and done wrong so far in your mind to address this group? 
 
JONES: Well, I mean, look, if you listen to what Harry said, the way I translate what Harry says is, Detroit's going to matter a lot in Michigan, Pennsylvania is going to matter a lot, and Wisconsin is going to - I mean Milwaukee is going to matter a lot. In other words, those core black cities in those swing states in the Great Lakes area, they're going to matter a bunch. And you're going to have to - it's not just about the message (ph). People have so much stock on, well, what's Biden going to say? What's his ad going to be? You've got to get at the grassroots level in those core, black cities and make sure that people are heard from by surrogates, heard from by the campaign and responded to. It's going to be a pitch on the ground battle in those Great Lake states, in those black cities, and that's where he's got to go. 
 
BERMAN: All right, Matt Gorman, now, and I really do mean it, thank you, and it is nice to see you today.
 
MATT GORMAN, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Yes.
 
BERMAN: If you are the Republicans and you see these polls, how much do you trust that you can keep these younger and ethically diverse voters in your camp into November? And how do you maybe try to bring them over more? Is it perhaps picking a running mate, like Senator Tim Scott, the guy you worked for for a little bit?
 
GORMAN: Yes, I mean it could be. I think, look, I think immigration also, you can't discount the importance of that (INAUDIBLE) that especially in the sunbelt as well. I mean this is something that the Trump coalition has been inching at for a while and I think - look, right after Trump lost or when he announced his presidency about a year-and-a-half ago or so, there was a question, who were maybe those people that didn't vote for Trump in 2020 or 2016 that are going to vote for him in 2024? We now know that answer, at least in theory, is going to be the folks - African American men, Latinos in those areas. 
 
One thing to note, there is an abortion referendum, as we know, possibly in some of these states. Does that affect turnout. The other, where we have to keep that lead above the margin of error. 
 
BERMAN: Well, talk about abortion a little bit more here because the - one of the brights - there are two probably bright spots in this poll for President Biden. One is that in the rust belt states he is within the margin of error or slightly ahead there. And there is a path to 270 just with Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. 
 
The other bright spot for him is his lead on the issue of abortion and how salient it still is.
 
Donald Trump leaving for court today. We may get to that in a second here. 
 
But abortion, how much of a block is that on Republicans, Matt.
 
GORMAN: I mean it's proven that it's historically helpful for Democrats over the last couple years. Now, one question I would have is, I mean, look, we talk about this Biden called Trump unhinged the other day. I mean, I worked for Jeb Bush in 2015 and 2016. Those were in Jeb Bush's talking points. 
 
Abortion is one of the few issues that has been baked in with Trump over the last decade. A lot of those Democratic attacks kind of are. So, it's a salient, it's a little bit newer, and, again, in those areas that are a little bit more urban, a little bit more upper income, does that swing even more, you know, women or other folks over? That's one question I would have, and that's one worry I would have. 
 
BERMAN: So, I talked about potential running mates for Donald Trump, and this is to both of you, Van and Matt here, listen in, because they've been going on the Sunday shows basically dancing around the issue of accepting the election results in 2024.
 <br>[08:40:10]
 
Listen to a little mish-mash of non-answers to the question of will you accept the election results.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What about 2024? What about 2024, Congresswoman?
 
REP. ELISE STEFANIK (R-NY): We will see if this is a legal and valid election.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Just simply yes or no.
 
SEN. TIM SCOTT (R-SC): I expect - I expect President Trump to win the next election. Listen, I'm not going to ask your - answer your hypothetical question. 
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH): And certainly if we have a free and fair election I'll accept the results. 
 
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): Yes, I'll accept them if I think, you know, there's no massive cheating. 
 
REP. BYRON DONALDS (R-FL): If you have state officials who were violating the election law in their states because of an emergency without going through the legislative process, which is by - by our Constitution and by every law in our states, then, no, I would not.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN: A whole lot of ifs and maybes there, Van.
 
JONES: Yes, you know, it - this is a - this is failing kindergarten when it comes to politics like, yes, you accept the election results and you don't insult the integrity of the American democratic process, which is the envy of the world. It has been the envy of the world. There is no evidence of any significant cheating at all, you know, you know, 0.001 percent. And none of it affecting the outcome of the election. 
 
But these are the termites that you unleash into the foundation of a democracy that later on can come back and crash the whole house when you have people who no longer believe in the integrity of our elections. They are playing with fire. They are playing with matches. They're playing with nitroglycerin. This is - this is a - one of the more despicable impacts of Donald Trump on the American body politic, this sort of nonsense from otherwise, you know, in some cases, good and decent folks.
 
BERMAN: Matt.
 
GORMAN: No, look, I think we - you know, I wouldn't expect, honestly, to see a lot of folks that want to be his vice president. I see some states may (ph) diametrically opposite on whether this or really any issue on Trump. There's a spectrum, and you saw kind of J.D. Vance was pretty succinct and pretty clear. There are other ones that aren't as clear. But I think that's just something, if you want to be his vice president, there are sort of guardrails and sort of things you have to kind of stay within. I wouldn't expect to see folks (INAUDIBLE) them that's diametrically opposite than what the top of the ticket's saying. BERMAN: Yes, well, that speaks volumes in and of itself. 
 
Matt Gorman, great to see you. 
 
Van Jones, as always, appreciate it. 
 
Thank you. 
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER: All right, a major shakeup in Russia's top military leadership. Russian President Vladimir Putin has replaced his longtime defense minister with a civilian. The reshuffle comes at a crucial moment. This morning we're learning Ukrainian officials warning that Russian forces have success in the Kharkiv region. 
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh is joining us now. 
 
First of all, what are you learning about these changes? 
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's a curious time to lose the man who, to some degree, has been leading the war effort. Sergei Shoigu, the defense minister, had a chief of staff below him, certainly, but now he's been moved to what seems to be a slightly more ceremonial role as head of the national security council. He'll still be close to Vladimir Putin, but he certainly won't be as close to having his hands on the war effort. 
 
Some analysts are saying, well, maybe this is a result of his poor performance, now the campaign appears to be doing slightly better, or perhaps they're getting his hands away from what you might call the cookie jar. His deputy was recently arrested on charges of accepting a bribe.
 
In his place is an economist, Andrey Belousov. And there are suggestions potentially this is all about the longer-term prospects for Russia integrating the war effort into its wider economy. They see a long-term here and they need to be sure they're as efficient as possible. 
 
But it comes, as I say, at a particularly bad time for Ukraine on the battlefield. We see new personnel certainly on Moscow's side, but we're seeing also a renewed war effort. Quite a startling one. Since Friday, Russian forces have moved across the border. Some called it their third invasion, heading towards Kharkiv, Ukraine's second city. They've seem to have got nearly five miles in, according to some accounts, if not further, and some key towns in those border areas have been under pressure from Russian forces and Russia's forces claim they've taken nine villages. That's a substantial advance. Some saying it's the fastest, frankly, since the early days of the war. And they could potentially soon leave the second city of Kharkiv under threat of Russian artillery. That's a big move certainly. 
 
And it comes too with concerted pressure in those same days, all along the front line, in the south and in key areas to in the east, where we've also seen Russian advances over the past month or so. This smacks of what U.S. officials, Ukrainian officials, have long been warning about, which is a Russian offensive. They've got the resources now, and they're going to use them. And they're on the clock as well because in about a month, six weeks, we're going to start seeing that long delay, $61 billion worth of American aid translate into weapons on the front line. Ukraine has long been starved and desperate for them. And I think Moscow wants to make use of the window while still sees Ukraine struggling to field forces, ammunition in the right places. 
 <br>[08:45:07]
 
They want to use that window to make as many gains as they possibly can. And that's what we're seeing right now. Make no mistake, Sara, we are seeing a significant new phase of the war. And it comes at a time where I think it's fair to say some of the focus in Washington has ebbed and there's a lot of statements in their support, but certainly the focus is on the Middle East elsewhere now. A very vital and dangerous time for Ukrainian and indeed European security.
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER: Yes, it can't be understated how many villages Russia has now gone into and has secured near the Kharkiv region. Really, really, really important reporting that you're giving us there in a war that has sort of been on the back burner because of what's happening in Gaza. 
 
Nick Paton Walsh, thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: The horrible wildfires in Canada or once again prompting air quality alerts in the United States. The flames right now said to be raging out of control. 
 
And actor Steve Buscemi, the latest victim of random violence in New York City, punched in the face out of the blue. Police are now asking for the public's help to find the suspect.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:50:40]
 
SIDNER: Authorities now saying a man who shot and killed a police officer in Euclid, Ohio, has been found dead after a standoff with police this weekend. Officials say 23-year-old Officer Jacob Derbin was responding to a disturbance call on Saturday when he was shot and killed during what police say was an ambush. U.S. Marshals say the heavily armed suspect then fled to a nearby town before being found dead in a residents. This was after an hours-long standoff with law enforcement.
 
Wildfires are raging across western Canada. Look at those pictures. Officials say the first major fires of the season have spread across nearly 25,000 acres. Thousands of people have been ordered to evacuate there. Canadian officials have also issued air quality warnings from British Columbia to Ontario. Smoke from the fire has also begun to blow into the U.S., prompting an alert across Minnesota due to unhealthy air quality.
 
And the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have left Nigeria following their private visit to the west African nation an official tells CNN. It was their first. The couple met with wounded soldiers and visited local charities during their three-day visit. They were there at the invitation of the Nigerian chief of defense staff, which wants to be involved further in Prince Harry's Invictus Games.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: So, the NYPD is asking for the public's help right now to help find this man we'll show you. He's accused of randomly walking up to actress Steve Buscemi and punching him in the face. 
 
It happened last week in midtown Manhattan. Buscemi's team just now putting out a statement about at all. He's the latest victim of random violence we're seeing in New York City. Last month CNN spoke to several women who said that basically the same thing happened to them. They were hitting in the face out of nowhere on the streets of New York.
 
CNN's Omar Jimenez is taking a look at it. He's joining us now. 
 
Omar, what are you hearing from - what's the NYPD saying? What is Buscemi saying about this? 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, for starters, Steve Buscemi does seem to be OK, but he was transported by EMS to a nearby hospital for bruising, swelling, and bleeding in his left eye, or for his left eye according to the New York Police Department.
 
Now, the call that they got was just before noon this past Wednesday that a 66-year-old man, Buscemi, was punched in the face, attacked by an unidentified individual. Now, Buscemi's team put out a statement saying, quote, "Steve Buscemi was assaulted in midtown Manhattan. Another victim of a random act of violence in the city. He is OK and appreciates everyone's well-wishes,  though incredibly sad for everyone that this has happened to while also walking the streets of New York." 
 
And, you know, last month CNN spoke to half a dozen women who reported similar incidents of randomly being punched in the face. 
 
Now, it's unclear what the motivation is or was in those cases and it doesn't seem to be the same person going around and randomly punching people on the streets of New York. But still a very concerning dynamic nonetheless. 
 
And as you showed just a few minutes ago in Steve Buscemi's case, the New York Police Department has put out these photos that you're seeing on your screen right there of an individual that they want connected to this case. No arrests so far as the investigation continues, according to the NYPD. But this is the image they are putting out right now. And then overall, while police have reported major, major declines in
 
 shootings and murders in New York compared to last year and the two years before, small misdemeanor assaults are up this year compared to last year and the year before by 7 percent and 12 percent respectively. 
 
So, all the more reasons to remain vigilant. But, of course, in case in particular, very serious and concerning as they all are.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Omar, thank you so much.
 
BERMAN: All right, we are standing by for what could be the critical day in the criminal trial of Donald Trump. Michael Cohen, Trump's one- time fixer, pitbull, insert phrase here, on the witness stand, really just minutes from now. His testimony will be crucial. 
 
Trump is charged with falsifying documents to cover up hush money payments to an adult film actress, all to influence the 2016 election. Michael Cohen is the guy who prosecutors need to testify about the falsification of the documents.
 
With us now, CNN legal analyst Jennifer Rodgers and Joey Jackson.
 
So, we're like T minus 30, 35 minutes till Michael Cohen taking the stand, maybe a little bit more. What's going on behind the scenes? 
 
Danya Perry is his personal attorney who has been helping him prepare. 
 <br>[08:55:01]
 
What are they doing right now? 
 
JENNIFER RODGERS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Well, they've probably done their preparation. They're probably actually just sitting around, to be honest. They've talked for so long about all of this. But what they will have done to prep him, of course, is to talk through what his direct examination will entail and then to prepare him for cross, including by very aggressive mock cross-examinations.
 
SIDNER: Joey, I have a question for you. So when - because you're here and we love it when you're here. 
 
When they have him on the stand, do prosecutors nail every single thing that they know the defense is going to bring up first to sort of preempt the defense from looking like they brought up something that surprises a jury?
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, you know, Sara, it's a great question. And the answer is, absolutely, right? The smart move, of course - there are two things. First of all, you want to take Michael Cohen through the entirety of the story. Jury has heard the story, of course. We've had a lot of witnesses that have really given testimony that he will give, that service corroboration to him, and that's to take the pressure off him, obviously, but also to prove their case without him because they know he'll be savaged. 
 
But oftentimes, most of the time, right, what prosecutors will do - and a defense will do the same for their witnesses, anything and everything that's derogatory that will come up you bring out initially, right? Yes, you've lived before Congress. Tell us about that. I lied to protect the president at that particular time. You know, what else? You were wearing a shirt - you hate the president, yes, but I'm here to tell the truth. 
 
And so it lessens the sting somewhat because you know in cross- examination he's going to be savaged, not only because of the nature of this case and prior statements that he made are inconsistent, but because President Trump, former President Trump is telling, just like Stormy Daniels, I want his lawyers, I want you to embarrass him, humiliate him and annihilate him. So, without question, they'll lay the foundation to allow him to testify as to some of the adverse and derogatory things that'll come out. 
 
BOLDUAN: We're looking right now at Donald Trump's motorcade arriving to court, as we have seen, and so he'll be heading in and then we'll get that inside highway - no, hallway shot and we'll - and we'll see if he comes to the cameras.
 
The way - what - what Joey was just describing, Michael Moore told me earlier in the show that it's like pre-rehabilitation is what they need to - some of what they need to focus on. But what - are there risks? What are the downsides of bringing Michael Cohen to the stand, considering he - it seems inevitable that he needed to be on the stand. 
 
RODGERS: Yes, the downsides are that it kind of sucks the oxygen out of the room, right? It makes them focus on Michael Cohen and his misdeeds more than the defendant, Donald Trump, and his misdeeds, right, which, of course, is what they're actually there to judge. So, that's the problem, it just kind of ends up taking over everything else, being a sideshow really. That's what they have to contend with. 
 
The problem is, he gives them direct evidence of the thing that we haven't yet seen fully proven, which is, of course, that Donald Trump knew about the illegality with respect to the documents. So, they really do have to call him and then just hope that all of this drawing the sting and so on will - will make it OK.
 
BERMAN: You know, you used the word "hope" for the prosecution here and there's an unusual element here, which is that the prosecution - the state has given Michael Cohen nothing here. There's no deal. There's no leniency deal. 
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
BERMAN: Michael Cohen already been sentenced, served time. He's out. He wasn't able to reach a deal with the feds or this state here. How much of a wildcard does that make him? 
 
JACKSON: So actually, John, that inures (ph) to the prosecution's benefit, right? Why? Because the defense, all the time, you're here because you have an agreement, correct? You're getting immunity, right? And it's in your interest to say what the prosecutors want you to say, isn't that right? So, that's something that they're not - that is the prosecution, right - they're - they didn't offer a deal. So, the defense is not going to be able to draw that out. 
 
Now, they'll be able to draw out a whole bunch of other things in terms of his credibility or lack thereof. But I think the prosecution's play has been throughout to tell their story through other witnesses. Catch and kill Pecker, right? "Access Hollywood" and what it did to the campaign. Hope Hicks. People who were inside the White House with the envelopes, the Sharpie pens, et cetera, the Oval Office meeting, the text messages, the phone calls, et cetera. Why? Because they want that story told by anyone and everyone but Michael Cohen, because they know he has credibility issues for real. 
 
SIDNER: Yes, and I think they brought up the immunity deal that Pecker had as well during that. So, to your point.
 
I do want to ask you about Michael Cohen outside of court. He had said that he was not going to talk anymore about the case. He's all over TikTok. He is talking about it. He is making statements. He's a - well, now a former lawyer, a disbarred lawyer, but he knows how this works. Can they use all of that? 
 
RODGERS: Of course.
 
SIDNER: And is it a mistake? 
 
RODGERS: Well, they can certainly use all of it. I think the point is, he has said so much. I mean they have a wealth of material, right? It's not - it's not any different that they now have a couple of things from recent days. I mean the judge did ask him to refrain from speaking about the case and, you know, if he's been on in the last couple of days, he hasn't done that. But as far as what they're going to use, they have so much. 
 
But, you know, one of the keys here is, there are two people that we know of who were trusted enough to deal with this. 
 <br>[09:00:03]
 
Not Donald Trump's children. 
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
RODGERS: Not -- Allen Weisselberg and Michael Cohen.