Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Trump Says His RNC Speech Will Look To Unify Country; Biden Orders Independent Review Of Rally Security Lapses; Secret Service Facing Scrutiny Over Attempted Assassination. Aired 5:30-6a ET

Aired July 15, 2024 - 05:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:33:09]
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  All right, 5:32 a.m. on the East Coast, which means I have to do math in my head this morning. It's 4:32 a.m. -- I'm terrible at time zones -- in Milwaukee. Here is a live look at the Fiserv Forum. That is where the Republican National Convention is going to get underway in just a few short hours.
 
Good morning, everyone. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's wonderful to have you with us. 
 
In just a few hours, as we've noted, the Republican Convention will start here in Milwaukee. Former President Trump arriving Sunday night just 24 hours after surviving an assassination attempt. Milwaukee's mayor insisting the city is fully prepared, telling CNN that security here is at a maximum.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR CAVALIER JOHNSON, (D) MILWAUKEE:  I have confidence in the Secret Service. I have confidence certainly in the Milwaukee Police Department. As was mentioned, we've worked at this for some 18 months -- some 18 months. And Milwaukee is designated a national special safety -- or security event, so this is the highest designation -- even higher so than what we saw in Pennsylvania just the other day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  But, of course, the country remains on high alert after a bullet grazed Trump's ear -- what a sentence -- on stage at a rally Saturday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Fight! Fight! Fight!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  Trump striking a defiant tone on stage following the shooting.
 
But we learned overnight the former president now looking to unify a divided nation during his speech at the RNC. This is what he told the New York Post. "I had all prepared an extremely tough speech -- really good -- about all the corrupt, horrible administration, but I threw it away." The Post reported this. "He said a new speech was in the works because 'I want to try to unite our country.' Folding his arms, he added, 'But I don't know if that's possible. People are very divided.'"
 
Our panel is back here. 
 <br>[05:35:00]
 
And Isaac Arnsdorf, you, I did not realize, were actually there at this rally on Saturday night, which obviously everyone who was there was very shaken up by what happened. So, first, we hope that you are OK.
 
But can you sort of pull together, kind of, your experience? What you felt there. What you saw there. How you felt -- shocked, surprised. How others felt. What you reported there.
 
Tie it into what we're about to see this week and, kind of, how you are approaching this and how the campaign is approaching this differently. 
 
ISAAC ARNSDORF, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, THE WASHINGTON POST, AUTHOR, "FINISH WHAT WE STARTED":  Yeah. The gunshots were over very quickly. And then what felt like forever was everyone watching the stage and trying to see Trump, who was still covered by Secret Service. And that felt like a very long time of confusion and trying to figure out what had happened to him.
 
HUNT:  What -- was he OK.
 
ARNSDORF:  Right, exactly.
 
And then when he -- even when he got up and you could see him and he raised his fist and there was blood on his face, but it wasn't clear where the blood came from. And so, even by the time he got into the car, and it was clear that he was alive and didn't -- he was walking with assistance, so we didn't know how badly he was injured. 
 
Everyone was stunned and kind of frozen until the police started to tell people they needed to leave. That it -- that it was a crime scene. 
 
And someone who has spoken with Trump told one of -- one of my colleagues at The Washington Post, Josh Dawsey, that Trump is sounding spiritual since the experience, which is a different sort of mode for him.
 
And so, clearly, the tone has changed for him for the campaign -- for the -- for everyone who was there.
 
HUNT:  It does seem -- I mean, to say that he's taken a spiritual turn -- I mean, you saw his defiance and you also saw anger from the crowd. What did that feel like on the ground? And how do you think that,
 
 among his core supporters -- we typically call them the MAGA movement -- how do you think that is going to influence where we go from here as a country?
 
ARNSDORF:  Yeah. I mean, in that moment, the anger was really directed at the press maybe just by virtue of people turn around we're right in the middle, and so everyone's kind of looking at us and walking past us. And so there was a lot of taking it out on us in that -- in that moment. But people left very calmly in a very orderly way. There were a few
 
 people trying to kind of rile people up and no one -- you know, no one took that bait. 
 
So again, hopefully, we'll see what leaders have been consistently calling for since then, which is trying to cool it a little bit.
 
HUNT:  Right. And a number of attendees -- Trump supporters -- did very generously and graciously take their time to talk to certainly, my colleagues here at CNN and other networks and reporters about what they saw. What they happened -- what happened as we all were trying to document history.
 
Jackie Kucinich, we hear Trump also say -- this was in his interview with the Washington Examiner -- Salena Zito, who has interviewed Trump a number of times. I talked to her yesterday. 
 
He said to her, "I'm not supposed to be here." And then he also talked about how he's going to change his speech. He said, "It would be very bad if I got up and started going wild about how horrible everybody is and how corrupt and crooked, even if it's true. Had this not happened, we had a speech that was pretty well set that was extremely tough. Now we have a speech that is more unifying."
 
You know, I think the questions sometimes with President Trump has always been the campaign apparatus that he has is a professional one. They have pushed him to try to say the kinds of things that could unify the country -- that could bring more people into his fold. He has not always gone along with that but it seems like perhaps that's the track he's on here.
 
JACKIE KUCINICH, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST, WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF, THE BOSTON GLOBE:  That is -- that seems to be what they're indicating. 
 
I mean, I think Matt's absolutely right. This comes from the top and Trump has shown that when he does -- when he does something the people that love him best and that follow him follow his lead. So, consistency here continuing. 
 
I mean, you had Chris LaCivita and Susie Wiles put out a statement saying any kind of violent rhetoric is not going to be tolerated by the campaign and so -- in the immediate aftermath of this. I'm paraphrasing there. I don't think that was their exact words.
 
But really, I think consistency here and the -- on both sides, keeping everyone tamped down and keeping it to policy. Keeping it to talking about differences and not getting personal. I hope this holds because it -- the country needs it.
 
HUNT:  Yeah. I mean, I think it's been rather -- there's been sort of a dispiriting way that we have seen every time some -- an event happens that is -- that is difficult for all of us we immediately have gone -- the country -- the people have immediately gone into their partisan corners. And this is kind of the worst imaginable type of thing. Obviously, it could have been worse than it was. Thank God the president -- the former president is OK.
 <br>[05:40:15]
 
But I think there's going to have -- a lot of people are going to have to resist impulses that are very --
 
KUCINICH:  Yes.
 
HUNT:  -- well-worn. 
 
MATT GORMAN, FORMER SENIOR ADVISER, TIM SCOTT'S PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST:  Yeah. And look, if we don't get back to normal -- and that isn't in contrast with what we've all been talking about when I say normal, right? 
 
We're going to roll out, most likely at some point I think in the next 36 hours, a vice-presidential nominee. We're going to have -- Trump's already here. We're going to start having speakers. Like, this will feel like a regular convention again. 
 
And Trump will go on the road again. Like, this will get back to a sense of normal. That isn't in contrast with what we've all been talking about.
 
And look, I think also, it's very -- it's smart because -- with what you were talking about, Jackie. I completely agree. Because what I would tell President Trump is like, look, not only do you have the high ground, you have the leverage, but you're also winning this race, right? There's no reason to squander the moral high ground, possibly a lead, by going all over the place in a speech that really takes and tears down what you've had built for the last four days or so at that point. Five days or so at that point by Thursday -- by the time he gives his speech. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah.
 
And let's be candid, too. There are probably more people that are going to watch this speech --
 
GORMAN:  Oh, absolutely.
 
HUNT:  -- considering what happened --
 
GORMAN:  Absolutely.
 
HUNT:  -- than would have previously.
 
Meghan Hays, if you're still with us, the one thing I do keep coming back to, and it's very kind of front and center for all of us who are operating here in Milwaukee, is the scrutiny that the U.S. Secret Service is under -- and particularly, the director of the Secret Service. And -- because there are all of these legitimate questions about how on earth could this have happened. 
 
There are actually a lot of complicated undercurrents around trust from the current President Biden. He has put someone at the top that had previously served on his detail who he does trust. But I am -- I have been talking to people who are suggesting that this is something that is going to be discussed as to whether the leadership of the agency needs to be held accountable.
 
What is your understanding of how people inside the White House are talking and thinking about this right now?
 
MEGHAN HAYS, CONSULTANT, DNC CONVENTION, FORMER WHITE HOUSE DIRECTOR OF MESSAGE PLANNING (via Webex by Cisco):  Look, I think that they are waiting to see how the investigation all unfolds. It's really easy to place blame on the people who are in charge of the security right now and that -- and that is very warranted and very fair. But I do think we need to wait to have an investigation. We need to see how this all plays out. 
 
There's a lot of partners here that work with the Secret Service. There is local and state law enforcement. There is just a lot of different things that happen. It's very layered in the way these events work with security and the advance teams, both from the staff side and the security side. So I think that they are taking a very measured approach. 
 
I mean, they released a picture yesterday where the deputy was in the photo. I think that Kim Cheatle, the director, was virtual. So they're involved -- you know, Sec. Mayorkas was there. 
 
So I do think that they are taking a very measured approach in trying to figure out the investigation and figure out what happens next before they make any of those determinations. But there was obviously something that happened. There was definitely a lapse in security. I think it's just figuring out where that is and what prompted that.
 
But, you know -- I mean, Secret Service has an enormous job when they are protecting the president, the former president, and all their protectees. And I just -- you know, I don't want to rush -- I don't think it's fair to rush to judgment on that.
 
HUNT:  Are you going to make any changes to the Democratic National Convention? I know you've been involved in some of that planning.
 
HAYS:  Look -- you know, I have not talked to them about the security apparatus. Just like the RNC, it is a national special security event -- the NSSE -- as you guys all know. There's -- it's 18 months in the planning. There is a special designation from Congress. So it is an 18-month process. 
 
And just like with the RNC, I don't know that many changes will be made. It's already at the highest level of security. I think that they'll be looking at things. Chicago has been under intense scrutiny for protests and things like that. So I think that they've already been --
 
HUNT:  Yeah.
 
HAYS:  -- pretty well monitoring some of this stuff. But I have not talked to them about the security apparatus. I'm sure they will take another look. We have about a month before the convention so everyone has to, like -- there needs to be more caution taken here, but I don't know that there's necessarily changes --
 
HUNT:  Sure.
 
HAYS:  -- that will be made just like at the (audio gap).
 
HUNT:  All right, fair enough.
 
OK. Still to come here on CNN THIS MORNING --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE DIFRISCHIA, SHOOTING WITNESS:  It just got very hectic very fast.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT:  The Secret Service dealing with tough questions over what went wrong at Trump's rally.
 
Plus, one of Donald Trump's vice-presidential contenders -- or at least at one point -- Congressman Byron Donalds -- he's certainly a major Trump supporter -- joins us to talk about where things stand after this weekend's violence.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:49:05]
 
HUNT:  All right, welcome back.
 
As the FBI looks into the motive behind the shooting, the Secret Service is facing mounting questions about how it was allowed to happen in the first place. 
 
According to CNN analysis of the scene at the Butler Farm Show grounds, the gunman was able to crawl onto a roof within 150 yards from where Trump was speaking. The building was outside the security perimeter but well within range of a sharpshooter. 
 
Witnesses also reported seeing the gunman on the roof in the leadup to the shooting and reporting it to law enforcement, but they didn't find him in time. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DIFRISCHIA:  My wife ran up to law enforcement and was trying to tell them where he was, but they couldn't seem to see him because they weren't in the right spot to see him on the roof. They were too close to the building. So it just got very hectic very fast.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[05:50:00]
 
HUNT:  President Biden now ordering an independent review of the security setup at the rally to determine what went wrong.
 
Joining me now to discuss is former Secret Service agent Christopher McClenic. Christopher, good morning to you. Thank you so much for being here. 
 
CHRISTOPHER MCCLENIC, FORMER SECRET SERVICE AGENT (via Webex by Cisco):  Good morning.
 
HUNT:  Obviously -- good morning. We do want to make sure -- I mean, the agents that rushed the stage to protect President Trump -- all of you who have served and have been willing to put your lives on the line are heroes and we want to acknowledge that upfront.
 
However, it's very clear that this was a massive failure. And, in fact, CNN is reporting that during the search for a suspicious person -- so obviously, this guy was flagged by people in the crowd -- officers with Township Police discovered the gunman was on the roof. And a local officer hoisted another to get up on the ledge. The shooter then turned around and saw the officer peering over and pointed his gun at him. And the officer let go of the ledge to take cover to save his life. And the gunman then started firing from the rooftop and hitting Trump. 
 
I mean, I've just to ask you, like, how was this allowed to happen?
 
MCCLENIC:  Well, first of all, good morning, and thank you for having me.
 
I think it's pretty candid -- it's pretty clear this was, frankly, a failure on the Secret Service's part. An epic failure if you will. It is the worst-case scenario for every Secret Service agent and as a retired agent, I'm embarrassed for the agents. 
 
Now, as to your question how it could be -- how that could have happened, simply put, a failure to follow established policy and procedure. Short, sweet, and to the point, that's exactly what happened. 
 
The Secret Service has policies and procedures in reference to individuals such as this shooter. And if they -- it's still preliminary, so we're not sure if those policies were actually followed. And if they were followed, were they followed to completion. I candidly don't believe that they were. 
 
HUNT:  What do you see as what they should have done differently? People have raised questions about drones. Obviously, we saw local law enforcement be the ones that were kind of operating around this building. What do you -- what do you know from what you've seen reported so far about what clearly should have been done differently? MCCLENIC:  Look, Kasie, I don't like to armchair quarterback having -- being a retired agent. I wasn't there and every site is different. 
 
I will tell you --
 
HUNT:  Fair enough.
 
MCCLENIC:  -- it's been my experience -- it's been my experience that when you have a situation such as this -- when you have an exposed area, especially one within a shooter's ability -- 140-150 meters -- it's been my experience that the -- that area is observed and if not posted by a Secret Service agent of our partners in local law enforcement, it is far more closely monitored than it obviously was. 
 
So, candidly, I probably would have posted that with an agent or a police officer if it was not already. If it was, it obviously was not done successfully.
 
HUNT:  Sir, how much do you think -- or how should I -- how should I frame this? Do you think that the leadership of the Secret Service needs to be held accountable here, and what role does the leadership play in overseeing -- this is obviously an on-the-ground failure. But, like I say, for the president, the buck stops here. How do you view that?
 
MCCLENIC:  Absolutely. The leadership has to be held accountable. The Secret Service doesn't give out trophies for participation. The Secret Service is -- everyone is responsible. And in this case, the leadership is going to have to be held responsible and I'm sure that they know that by now. 
 
We saw this with reference to the fence jumper during the Obama administration where the leadership knew that they were going to be held accountable. 
 
This is far more damaging and far more serious of an infraction. So I find it impossible to believe that the leadership of the Secret Service would think that they should go through this unscathed. 
 
That said, there's still -- it's still very preliminary and who is going to be at fault or more at fault than anyone else is still -- we're still waiting to find that out.
 
HUNT:  Yeah.
 
Can you describe for us -- I mean, you were an agent -- what it would feel like or what some of these agents are feeling that were involved in this? Because it is, I'm sure, devastating.
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
MCCLENIC:  Absolutely. In one-word answers, embarrassment, constant regret. There's going to be remorse. There is no way any Secret Service agent -- I've already spoken to several. I've spoken to several agents who are retired that -- it's traumatic. In a word, traumatic. Prior to that site going live -- prior to Trump actually taking the
 
 stage and getting behind that podium, I -- rest assured, there had to be several. The site advance agent, the second supervisor. Agents who walked the exact walkway that the president was going to take. And I guarantee you numerous agents stood behind that podium and looked out on where the crowd would be and saw that rooftop. 
 
So --
 
HUNT:  Yeah.
 
MCCLENIC:  -- while it's still in the preliminary stages of the investigation, I know that the agents who did that -- who did that walk-through are now regretting having seen that rooftop and not having put more assets towards it.
 
HUNT:  Yeah. 
 
All right, Christopher McClenic for us this morning. Sir, thank you very much for your time. I really appreciate it.
 
MCCLENIC:  Thank you.
 
HUNT:  All right. Coming up next here, Donald Trump reflecting on the assassination attempt that left him injured.
 
Plus, a man all too familiar with political violence. The former Democratic congressman Joe Kennedy joins me live coming up next hour.
 
(COMMERCIAL)