Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: U.S. & Seoul Working To Reach New Deal On Cost Sharing Of U.S. Troops In S. Korea Ahead Of Possible Trump Victory; Trump Blames Biden & Harris For Apparent Assassination Attempt; Report: Dolphina QB Tua Tagovailoa Has No Plans To Retire. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired September 16, 2024 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:33:42]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Officials in Washington and Seoul are working to reach a deal by the end of the year on how to share the cost of U.S. forces who are based in South Korea.
 
Officials familiar with the discussions tell CNN that both sides feel a sense of urgency to get an agreement solidified before the possibility of a second Trump administration. 
 
CNN national security correspondent, Kylie Atwood, is with us now from the State Department. 
 
Kylie, tell us about this urgency to get a deal done. 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, listen, Brianna, this agreement doesn't actually need to be reviewed until the end of next year. That's more than a year from now. 
 
But there is urgency, particularly on behalf of the South Koreans, because they see the possibility that former President Trump could win the elections in November. And they want to avoid getting into negotiations with officials from a potential second Trump administration. 
 
The reason for that is because, during the first Trump administration, there were incredibly high demands put on the South Koreans when there were negotiations going on to try and renew this cost-sharing agreement. 
 
This is for the more than 28,000 U.S. troops that are stationed in South Korea. They're there for U.S. national security reasons, to try and obviously deter any attacks from North Korea as they build up their nuclear program to deter aggression from China. We've seen their aggression growing in the region.
 <br>[14:35:05]
 
But Trump felt, at the time, that South Korea wasn't paying the United States enough for that military presence. He demanded, in the initial negotiations, that they've pay 400 percent more than they had been paying. 
 
Now, those negotiations never came to fruition, When the Biden administration came in, they struck a new agreement. The South Koreans now pay the United States about $1 billion annually. That's about 14 percent more than they had been paying in the previous agreement. 
 
But the South Koreans see this agreement coming to the end of the line. They want to try and get it done before the end of this year to prevent having to go back at it with former -- or the current or what could be current Trump administration officials. 
 
Now, we don't know if this is going to work. U.S. officials I've talked to say that there are ongoing talks. They finished their seventh round of talks on this just weeks ago. There is a sense of urgency. It could get done early.
 
But I've also talked to some experts, regional experts here in Washington who say that they have told South Korea this might not be the best approach. 
 
Because even if they do get a deal done and they get a cost-sharing agreement that both sides can agree to, there's nothing that would prevent former President Trump, if he wins the elections, from tearing up that deal. 
 
And it would, of course, likely put South Korea in his line of fire coming into a second administration, which could be a problem for the U.S.-South Korea alliance -- Brianna?
 
KEILAR: Yes, certainly could be.
 
Kylie, thank you so much for that report from the State Department. 
 
And next, in a new interview, former President Trump blaming President Biden and Vice President Harris for the latest apparent assassination attempt against him. That's what the FBI is calling it "apparent." Why he believes they're responsible.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:41:27]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Today, former President Donald Trump is pointing the finger at President Biden and Vice President Harris, blaming them for the apparent assassination attempt against him.
 
KEILAR: In his first interview since the incident, Trump told FOX News that, quote, "Their rhetoric is causing me to be shot at." Before adding, "They are the real threat." 
 
We're joined now by Erin Perrine. She's a former press communications director for Donald Trump's 2020 campaign and a Republican strategist for Axiom Strategies. 
 
We're also joined by Tim Hogan. He is a Democratic strategist and former spokesperson for Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign. I wonder, Erin, you're hearing what Trump is saying here. What
 
 questions, concerns is this raising for you?
 
ERIN PERRINE, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST &amp; FORMER PRESS COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, TRUMP 2020 CAMPAIGN: I think ultimately everybody needs to remember that crazy doesn't know a political party or ideology. 
 
There is extreme rhetoric on both sides of the political spectrum. And everybody needs to accept a little bit of culpability and responsibility for what becomes inflamed rhetoric in this country. 
 
But to be clear, this isn't a Republican or Democrat issue. This is an American issue. And we should be treating it like that.
 
For President Trump right now, I think his best course of action would be to be a bit more like he was -- this is really hard to believe I'm saying -- after his first assassination attempt where he was much more unifying. 
 
If people want to try and make this political, let other people do that. Be the leader that the country needs at a time where this rhetoric has led to two attempts to kill Donald Trump.
 
Everybody needs to take cooler heads. The world will not end, this country will not end and cease to exist as a democracy if Kamala Harris wins or if Donald Trump wins. 
 
SANCHEZ: Tim to you. President Biden addressed this at an event in Philadelphia earlier today. He talked about there being no place for political violence in America, saying, "We resolve our differences peacefully at the ballot box, not at the end of a gun." 
 
He also said earlier today that Congress needs to act in order to provide the Secret Service with more recent sources. 
 
I'm wondering what you think about what you heard from President Biden, and specifically that call on Congress.
 
TIM HOGAN, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST &amp; FORMER SPOKESPERSON FOR HILLARY CLINTON 2016 CAMPAIGN: Yes. I think that that is the type of leadership that we need in this moment for cooler heads to prevail.
 
Look, we're in a heated election. The stakes are high, whether you care about health care or abortion rights or the economy. 
 
But the point is we resolve our issues and the call to action to set a vision and a course for the country is always at the ballot box. 
 
Both Vice President Harris and President Biden have said they're deeply disturbed by the attack, but that they want to make sure the Secret Service resources are there to make sure that nothing think like this happens again.
 
And look, to Erins point, look, Navigator Research last week released a poll about political violence in this country. And 84 percent of Americans are worried about political violence. That's Republicans, Independents, Democrats. They were worried about
 
 it today. And 87 percent say they worry about it in the future. So this is in the background of this conversation of this election cycle the entire time. 
 
And we just need to have cooler heads prevail. You should be able to say and condemn what happened to Donald Trump. You should be able to say and condemn what happened to Paul Pelosi. This should not be a political issue.
 
KEILAR: And I hear, Tim, what you're saying about cooler heads. I do wonder what you think about this, you know, Congress needs to -- Congress is so slow and divided. And we're talking about now two attempts here in the course of about two months. 
 
And I know the FBI is saying this is an apparent attempt. That's very specific language that they're using. We're using that as well. And I want to be clear about that. 
 <br>[14:44:59] 
 
But do you think that Biden should be approaching this with a little bit more urgency with the realization that this could be, you know, something that is happening on either side when you're looking at some of the systemic issues in the Secret Service? 
 
Because this is the Secret Service that is responsible for these protectees, Democrats and Republicans.
 
HOGAN: Yes. I mean, look, we had -- we had some explosive hearings with the former head of the Secret Service after the first assassination attempt.
 
And to Erin's point, again, it's kind of shaking your head to say we're doing this a second time. 
 
All, the resources need to be there. This is a bipartisan issue. It's why we have a bipartisan committee that is heading up and making sure that this doesn't happen again.
 
It is heartening to hear from President Biden and from Vice President Harris that, look, whatever resources are needed, whatever resources are necessary.
 
As we learn more about this attack, about this person, about how he gained access, about how he was 300 to 500 yards from the former president, what needs to be done to make sure that that area, wherever he is, where his family is, is fortified and safe. 
 
Again, it's a bipartisan issue. It has to be approached that way. And I hope this committee moves quickly. 
 
SANCHEZ: I do wonder, Erin, what you make of folks that have not taken the sort of track that you're outlining. Folks that are not letting cooler heads prevail and are out there. People in the former presidents orbit, who are insinuating things
 
 about the assassination, saying things like there's more to the story, there's something fishy about it. And that doesn't really enhance the discourse.
 
PERRINE: Well, a vacuum of knowledge is what leads to conspiracy theories. When people feel that they're not getting the accurate information. 
 
Again, I -- it catches me each time I say this. After the first assassination attempt on Donald Trump's life, the head of the Secret Service at the time wasn't putting out information. 
 
That is a bad strategy in a crisis moment, especially when people really have a sense of fear and urgency. And that polling really shows that.
 
To Tim's point here, that over 80 percent of Americans are worried about this violence. We need to be shining the daylight on what has happened in these incidents. Because that is how you stop crazy conspiracy theories about what could have happened to him.
 
And to the question before to Tim about getting this done and with urgency, an emergency supplemental can easily be done in Congress. They can allocate more resources to the United States Secret Service so they can train more agents, they can get more people on the job, they can fortify a bit more.
 
But a lot of this needs to come through the full process. But people have a problem right now with Alejandro Mayorkas and being able to trust him with all of this chaos. 
 
So there needs to be definitive, clear leadership in order to get an emergency supplemental done. The speaker could lead on this. Chuck Schumer can lead on this. This could be a really good bipartisan moment for the country. 
 
KEILAR: Does Biden need to call for that? 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: For speaking specific, like that?
 
PERRINE: He could. But really the power of the purse is with Congress. The speaker could call for this, the Senate leader, Chuck Schumer, could call for this. If they want to be able to allocate the funds for this, they should be able to do it. Let's get it done. 
 
SANCHEZ: Tim, your reaction to the idea that Congress needs to do something as soon as possible, given that it's so divided at this time? 
 
HOGAN: Yes. But there are -- there are -- it sounds -- it sounds trite to say sometimes that there's more that unites us than divides us. But, like, there is nothing more fundamental than an issue like this that goes at the core of our democracy. Look, we have two very different competing visions about what this
 
 country is going to look like and what policy we are going to have in place, who you trust to lead.
 
But at the end of the day, we have to make that decision as Americans at the ballot box. And that means that the security of the candidates, the security of the candidates' families is at the very top of the list of things for Congress to do right now. 
 
So I think we've seen the president come out and say, and the vice president come out and say, whatever the resources are that are necessary to get this done, to make sure that there is security surrounding everyone who is on the ballot in this race, it has to get done. 
 
And I think if there's any hope for some sort of bipartisan action in Congress and to do it with some sense of urgency, it's an issue like this.
 
SANCHEZ: Tim Hogan, Erin Perrine, we hope that cooler heads will prevail and there will be some consensus and some action on this. 
 
Thank you both for the conversation.
 
PERRINE: Thank you.
 <br>[14:49:19]
 
SANCHEZ: Up next, Miami Dolphins Quarterback Tua Tagovailoa has reportedly made a decision about retirement after suffering yet another concussion. Why he says he's getting back on the field as soon as possible.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Despite Miami Dolphins Quarterback Tua Tagovailoa suffering yet another concussion, he apparently has no plans to retire, according to the NFL Network.
 
SANCHEZ: The 26-year-old was forced off the field last Thursday after diving for a first down and taking a big hit. He was able to eventually get up on his own. 
 
But now Tagovailoa, who has a history of concussions, is facing more calls to step away from the game for good.
 
CNN's Coy Wire joins us now.
 
Coy, what more are you learning? 
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT: A third reported concussion in the NFL, Boris and Brianna, for Tua Tagovailoa. He had two scary ones in 2022. None last season. This most recent one against the Bills last week had players and coaches shook.
 
NFL Network's Ian Rapoport is reported putting that Tua Tagovailoa currently has no plans to retire from the game. 
 
I should note that that was before he met with neurologists. He's also reportedly going to meet with neurologists early this week. We'll see if he has any comment about the future after that meeting. 
 
Now there are players and coaches, current coach -- head coach of the Los Angeles -- excuse me -- Las Vegas Raider's Antonio Pierce is calling for Tua to retire. 
 <br>[14:55:07]
 
Here's some of what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONIO PIERCE, HEAD COACH, LAS VEGAS RAIDERS: Tua needs to retire. It's not worth it. It's not worth it to play the game. 
 
I haven't witnessed anything like I've seen that's happened to him three times. Scary. You can see right away the players faces on the field. You can see the sense urgency from everybody to get -- to help. 
 
I just take it, at some point, he's lived longer with playing football. Take care of your family.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Now, for a current NFL coach to come out and have that sort of statement is quite profound when you compare it to reactions in the past. We've had some scary situations.
 
Mike McDaniel, the head coach of the Miami Dolphins, on the other hand, said it's too early to make any sort of judgment about his future, whether or not he should retire.
 
And that this is a personal decision. This is his career. And that people should leave that decision up to him. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Coy, it's so hard though, isn't it? It's just a hard thing to watch. And everyone does have their opinion on it. 
 
Coy Wire, thank you so much. 
 
Ahead, body cam footage and cell phone data revealing some new details about what the FBI calls an apparent assassination attempt against former President Donald Trump. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)