Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: VP Harris' Economic Plan; Harris Vows to Build Opportunity Economy; Trump and Harris Focus on Economic Plans; CNN Inside Ukraine-occupied Russia; Kursk Incursion Aimed at Bringing Russia into Fair Negotiations; Biden Says "We Are Closer Than Ever" on Gaza Ceasefire; Israeli Settlers Attacks West Bank; Indian Doctors Strike to Protest Rape and Murder of Trainee; Thailand's Parliament Elects Youngest Prime Minister; Canadian Engineers Picks Up N. Korean TV; Meals on Wheels Revolutionizing Takeout Experience; Serve Robotics and Shake Shack Partnership; Premiere League Kicks Off New Season. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired August 16, 2024 - 18:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, "FIRST MOVE":  It's 5:00 a.m. in Bangkok, 7:00 a.m. in Tokyo, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. 
 
 And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome once again to "First Move," and here's today's need to know. Inflation salvation, Kamala Harris promising housing help, support 
 
 for lower- and middle-class parents, and a ban on corporate price gouging.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  All around us the signs of the intense fight that's been raging inside here. 
 
 It's very surreal to be inside Russia again with Ukrainian forces leading the way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Russia rocked. CNN goes inside the Ukraine-occupied Kursk region. As Kyiv says it's not interested in staying.
 
Dynasty destiny. Thailand's parliament elects its youngest ever prime minister and the daughter of a former leader.
 
And Meals on Wheels. The robotics firm looking to revolutionize the takeout experience and no tips required. That conversation and plenty more coming 
 
 up.
 
But first, Democratic Presidential Candidate Kamala Harris laying out her plan for creating a, quote, opportunity economy, promising to lower the 
 
 cost of living for struggling families across the United States. Harris announcing her wide-ranging economic agenda during a speech in the swing 
 
 State of North Carolina in just the last few hours.
 
The plan includes an array of programs, including tackling price gouging by grocers, building 3 million new homes, and rolling out tax relief for 
 
 working families. All this as the affordability crisis remains the number one issue for many U.S. voters. Eva McKend has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Vice President Kamala Harris unveiling a populist economic agenda in her first 
 
 major policy speech since becoming the Democratic presidential nominee.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  As president, I will be laser focused on creating opportunities 
 
 for the middle-class. Together we will build what I call. opportunity economy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKEND (voice-over):  Speaking Friday in Battleground, North Carolina, Harris outlined a series of proposals, including expanding the child tax 
 
 credit to as much as $3,600 up from $2,000, adding a new child tax credit of up to $6,000 for families with newborns, expanding the earned income tax 
 
 credit for lower income workers without children. And help lowering housing costs, including an offer of $25,000 in down payment assistance for first 
 
 time homebuyers.
 
HARRIS:  As president, I will work in partnership with industry to build the housing we need both to rent and to buy.
 
By the end of my first term, we will end America's housing shortage by building 3 million new homes and rentals.
 
MCKEND (voice-over):  As polls show, the vice president narrowing Donald Trump's advantage on the economy, Harris drawing a contrast with the vision 
 
 put forward by her Republican rival.
 
HARRIS:  Compare my plan with what Donald Trump intends to do. He plans to give billionaires massive tax cuts year after year. And he plans to cut 
 
 corporate taxes by over a trillion dollars, even as they pull in record profits.
 
MCKEND (voice-over):  Another element of Harris' agenda, a federal ban on price gouging to lower grocery prices and other everyday costs.
 
HARRIS:  My plan will include new penalties for opportunistic companies that exploit crises and break the rules.
 
MCKEND (voice-over):  Trump criticizing that approach during an event Thursday in New Jersey.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Kamala is reportedly proposing communist price controls and Maduro plan 
 
 like something straight out of Venezuela. You're all going to be thrown into a communist system.
 
MCKEND (voice-over):  But Harris supporters say her plans make sense.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  People may call it overstepping, but at the end of the day, the government's role is to protect its citizens. And if companies are 
 
 overcharging and price gouging, then something that should be taken on.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  We'll talk more about the implications of those policy proposals later on in the show. But for now, let's move on. Ukraine is 
 
 hoping its incursion into Russia's Kursk region will persuade the Kremlin to enter, quote, a fair negotiation process. That's according to an adviser 
 
 to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
The aide says Ukraine is not interested in occupying Russian territory, but instead, the cross-border incursion aims to inflict significant tactical 
 
 defeats, quote. U.S. officials say Russia appears to have redirected several thousand of its troops from inside Ukraine to defend the Kursk 
 
 region.
 
Nick Paton Walsh gained some of the first access to Ukrainian-held Russia Friday to witness Ukrainian forces control over the town of Sudzha and the 
 
 intensity of the fight. CNN was accompanied by the Ukrainian military who reviewed the video without sound prior to release for operational security 
 
 reasons, yet had no editorial control.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  All around us, the signs of the intense fire that's been raging inside here. 
 
 It's very surreal to be inside Russia again with Ukrainian forces leading the way.
 
Well, not even the statue of Lenin is unscathed here. This Ukrainian assault, so persistent, and Russia, despite its sense of history, it's sort 
 
 of passed as being so impregnable, completely unable to push the Ukrainians out here. The sound of small arms fire we can still hear. So, clearly, 
 
 there is a bid for the Russians to push back, but it simply isn't working, and the humiliation for Putin endures.
 
You can see the damage that's been done to this street here, from the intense fight that raged. Still clearly active fighting happening here. And 
 
 there's still the question is, where are the drones? Where are the Russian drones that have made Ukraine's life hell on the front lines for months? 
 
 Simply nowhere to be seen.
 
Well, there's constant artillery as well. Clearly, a fight still underway for this, which has become deeply symbolic for Ukraine's totally surprise 
 
 assault into Russia.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Closer than we've ever been, quote. That's how the U.S. president is describing talks over a Gaza ceasefire and hostage deal. And 
 
 in a message likely meant for Iran, he says no one should in the region should undermine the process.
 
The U.S. and its allies are pushing for an agreement to be reached next week. International mediators wrapped up two days of talks in Qatar hours 
 
 ago, with more talks expected in Egypt in the days to come. A proposal aimed at bridging the remaining differences was put forward. Israel says 
 
 it's returned from the talks feeling cautiously optimistic and that gaps have been narrowed.
 
This as the U.S. condemns an attack by Israeli settlers on a Palestinian village in the West Bank. More than 70 armed settlers invaded the village 
 
 of Jit, firing on residents and setting homes on fire, according to local authorities. They say at least one person was killed.
 
For more on this, we'll speak to our Jeremy Diamond who's in Haifa, northern Israel. Jeremy, good to have you with us tonight. It does seem 
 
 that there is a degree of cautious optimism about this scale, the degree, the approach of these talks compared to what I think we've ever seen in the 
 
 past. But history also tells us you have to be very cautious about their ability to close that final gap. What are we thinking at this stage about 
 
 the talks next week?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, no doubt about it, Julia. And I think that's why the key word this evening is cautious 
 
 optimism. That is what I heard from an Israeli source familiar with the negotiations who said that the Israeli delegation returned from Doha, Qatar 
 
 late this evening -- late tonight, I should say. And they returned with a sense that there was some real progress that was made. They called the 
 
 talks very productive.
 
They believed that many of the gaps that remained between Israel and Hamas were able to be closed in these negotiations, or at least that those gaps 
 
 were certainly narrowed, but they issued a series of caveats after that. You know, one of which is the fact that while this bridging proposal, which 
 
 the U.S. has put on the table, neither side has yet to accept it, neither the Israelis nor Hamas.
 
The proposal has been provided to the Hamas officials who are in Doha, Qatar. But it has not yet been provided to Yahya Sinwar, Hamas' leader, who 
 
 remains in Gaza, likely underneath a tunnel system in Southern Gaza.
 
And so, this weekend is when that proposal is expected to be submitted to him. As that proposal is submitted to him, there will be furious efforts by 
 
 working level delegations, working through the technical implementation details of this deal. Those talks will begin -- or continue, I should say, 
 
 in Doha, Qatar.
 
Another working level delegation, I'm told, will travel to Cairo, Egypt this weekend. All of that ahead of what is expected to be a new -- a next 
 
 summit similar to what we saw over the last two days in Cairo next week, sometime in the middle or late next week.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
And one of my sources did say that if indeed Hamas agrees to this, if the Israeli prime minister agrees to this, we could actually see a deal 
 
 announced by the end of next week. And that would obviously be monumental. But again, there is still a lot of caution being thrown around despite the 
 
 progress that we are seeing because we know that these final days, these final hours of negotiations are often the most contentious.
 
And, again, very few details are actually being shared about the extent to which these various gaps have actually been narrowed, how they were 
 
 narrowed, and whether it will be to the satisfaction of both parties.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, vital points. And just quickly, President Biden, and I mentioned perhaps in a message to Iran here, suggested that no one in the 
 
 region should risk undermining this. Of course, we've continued to be very watchful over Iran's believed, at some point, retaliation for what we saw, 
 
 of course, just over the last couple of weeks.
 
Is the presumption now being made that they will hold off until there's a conclusion of these talks, but for better or worse?
 
DIAMOND:  That does seem to be the case right now. Of course, that could change at any time. But for now, there is no doubt that there is a 
 
 concerted, multilayered effort to try and get Iran to hold its fire, to give the space for these diplomatic efforts to take hold, for the ceasefire 
 
 negotiations to continue.
 
Clear messages being sent by multiple countries involved in the process to Iran, that should you choose to fire on Israel at this very delicate 
 
 moment, you risk upending all of the progress being made towards a ceasefire, which Iran claims that it would like to see in Gaza.
 
And one of the clearest indications of the fact that Iran appears to be holding off and is certainly in communication about the progress of these 
 
 talks and keeping tabs on them is the fact that the Qatari prime minister, who has been intimately involved in these negotiations, over the past two 
 
 days, he has spoken with the Iranian foreign minister as many times. And so, he is keeping him posted on the progress of these talks and making very 
 
 clear to him that any kind of escalation at this point would undermine those negotiations.
 
And so, it seems that at least for now, Iran is heeding those warnings. We will have to see how that unfolds as we get closer to the next round of 
 
 talks next week.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, we'll remain watchful. Jeremy Diamond, tonight, thank you so much for that report.
 
Now, for more on that attack in the West Bank, too, let's turn to Nic Robertson. He spoke to a Palestinian man beaten by Israeli settlers, and he 
 
 filed this report. And a warning to viewers, some of the images you are about to see are disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over):  Cars torched. Houses set alight. Armed Israeli settlers on a deadly overnight 
 
 rampage. Firing live rounds in the occupied West Bank Palestinian village of Jit.
 
Security camera video catching the moment settlers brazenly stormed one of the houses, dousing furniture and setting it afire.
 
23-year-old Rashid Sedda shot in the chest.
 
Hours later, his family and friends carrying him shoulder high through the village. A hero, they say, for rushing to face down the settlers unarmed.
 
ROBERTSON:  What angers the people here is that Rashid Sedda is not the first victim of settler violence in these small West Bank villages and they 
 
 fear that there could be more.
 
SUHAIL SEDDA, COUSIN OF RASHID SEDDA:  We can leave the houses. You know, I have a house. I got eight kids. They are all Americans. And they are just -
 
 - they are terrorized right now because of what happened yesterday.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Rashid's father, Mahmoud (ph), needing help up the hill to the cemetery. At the graveside, anger, frustration, and sadness 
 
 palpable under the beating sun as another child of this soil returned long before his time.
 
The orations pouring praise on Rashid and vitriol on the Israeli government, despite some officials condemning the settlers. And early next 
 
 morning, the IDF stopping a second attack.
 
MURAD ESHTEWI, SPOKESMAN FOR FATAH IN QALQILYA GOVERNATE (through translator):  What we've heard from the Israeli occupation government is 
 
 smoke and mirrors, because we Palestinian people know for sure that these settlers did not attack without a political and security order. It sends a 
 
 message to settlers that they can launch their attacks.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Mohamman Arram got beaten. His vehicle torched.
 
It was 7:00 p.m. We were relaxing, he says. The settlers caught us by surprise, started smashing the car.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
His security camera catching the moment the settlers arrived, chasing and attacking him and his brother.
 
This was a planned attack. The most vicious we've seen with guns, he says. They tried to get into the house, to the women and children. It could have 
 
 been a massacre.
 
Only one grave to mourn at. A mercy of sorts. The life lessons learned by these youngsters, though, herald another generation of bitterness and 
 
 division.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  To India now, where doctors are stepping up their protests and strikes after a rape and murder of a colleague in Kolkata. Thousands of 
 
 doctors are demanding better safety and accountability for healthcare workers. And smaller protests have flared up in other parts of the nation 
 
 too as medical unions back those demonstrations. Mike Valerio has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It's a protest pledge and roar anger emanating across India, doctors gathering by the thousands after 
 
 a young trainee medic working taxing hours at a state-run hospital was raped and murdered, brutally killed where she was simply trying to save 
 
 lives.
 
From Kolkata to Delhi, doctors' demands are simple, new immediate protections written into law for medical staff in the world's most populous 
 
 country. Many say, they've spent years fearing for their safety, hospital security often failing them, if and when patients' families take out their 
 
 rage on overworked medical professionals.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is just one victim, but all of us know, there are so many victims like her who go unnamed, whose story we never hear.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  A Kolkata doctor who is in the same batch of medical students as the victim spoke to us over zoom. CNN has concealed their 
 
 identity for their protection.
 
VALERIO:  So, with that, I just want to ask first and foremost, what are you processing right now through this horrifying story? Can you just give 
 
 us a sense of what you're feeling and what you're processing in this moment?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  That night it was her, but it could have been any one of us. Anyone on duty. There's a deep sense of 
 
 fear, not just in the doctors on duty at night. People, the nurses, the hospital staff, everyone, we're all at risk.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  Then there's the need to end widespread violence against women. Well documented tragedies shaking India for years. The 
 
 notorious gang rape of a 22-year-old on a Delhi bus in 2012 is far from forgotten. The 2012 victim was dubbed Nirbhaya. The recent victim in 
 
 Kolkata, Abhaya, both meaning fearless.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It is such a heinous crime that all of India should be ashamed.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  At the center of the movement, protesters demand justice for the 31-year-old Kolkata trainee medic. Police arrested one man 
 
 under suspicion of rape and murder. He's described as a volunteer at the hospital where the woman worked.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Vandalized. It's horrible. It is horrible.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  Anger also flared with more than a dozen people arrested for destroying parts of the hospital where the murder happened. 
 
 Protesters say the intention was to destroy evidence.
 
There's also deep frustration over early perceived problems with the local police's handling of the case. It's now in the hands of India's National 
 
 Central Bureau of Investigation.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We're rather thankful and grateful to the honorable court that the CBI has been now handed over the investigation.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  Heightening the urgency of protest continuing into the weekend, police in Northern India confirmed another rape and murder of 
 
 a 33-year-old paramedic. Thousands of doctors now with a solemn vow to stop performing elective procedures, taking to the streets until they see 
 
 meaningful change.
 
Mike Valerio, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  The Thai Parliament has elected the nation's youngest ever prime minister. Paetongtarn Shinawatra was part of a political dynasty. 
 
 Both her father and aunt are themselves former prime ministers. Her election follows a turbulent week in Bangkok as the judiciary ousted the 
 
 nation's leader for violating ethics rules. The incoming prime minister must be endorsed by Thailand's king before she can take office. Marc 
 
 Stewart has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Surrounded by her supporters in Bangkok, Paetongtarn Shinawatra is following in her 
 
 family's footsteps, elected by parliament as Thailand's new prime minister, a role once filled by her father and aunt.
 
PAETONGTARN SHINAWATRA, INCOMING THAI PRIME MINISTER:  I decided that it's about time to do something for the country and for the party as well. And I 
 
 just -- I hope that I can do my best to, you know, make the country go forward.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  The 37-year-old already understands Thailand's turbulent political landscape. Her family is a powerful, yet at times 
 
 divisive political dynasty that's had a presence for the past two decades.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
Her father, Thaksin Shinawatra, was prime minister before he was ousted in a 2006 military coup. A billionaire and the former owner of the Manchester 
 
 City Football Club, he returned to Thailand from exile last August. Her aunt, Yingluck, was the nation's first female prime minister. She was 
 
 removed before a coup in 2014. Yet, despite the family history, Shinawatra pledges to do her best for the country.
 
SHINAWATRA:  I really hope that I can make the people feel confident, to build the opportunities, and to improve the quality of life and to empower 
 
 to all Thais.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  Having attended top schools in Thailand and the U.K., the 37-year-old will be Thailand's youngest prime minister. While her 
 
 Instagram pictures of her family are a source of attention, she's been part of her family's political presence for years. Spending time with her father 
 
 at political events when she was growing up.
 
Paetongtarn Shinawatra's rise comes amid this week's ouster of Former Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin after a court found he breached ethics rules 
 
 after appointing a cabinet member who served prison time. As Thailand's next generation leader, she inherits a host of challenges, including fixing 
 
 Thailand's sluggish economy and managing an uneasy coalition.
 
As long as the country of 70 million people can't stay far from the Shinawatra family, the shadow of military influence over Thai politics 
 
 remains.
 
Marc Stewart, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Coming up for us, more on Kamala Harris' plan to bring down U.S. inflation. Plus, powerful Typhoon Ampil batters eastern Japan 
 
 with fierce winds and heavy rains. Where this dangerous storm is heading next. And the robotics firm shaking up the restaurant industry with Shake 
 
 Shack. Why sidewalk robots may be delivering your next delicious food order.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And topping today's Money Move, a Fri-yay on Wall Street as the U.S. stock recovery gained steam. The major 
 
 averages finishing in the green again to close out their best week so far this year. What a contrast from where we were only a few weeks ago when 
 
 markets fell sharply on economic concerns.
 
New data showing U.S. consumer sentiment up for the first time in five months, just the latest piece of data suggesting underlying U.S. economic 
 
 resilience.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
Another strong day for stocks in Asia. The Nikkei soaring more than 3.5 percent to close out its best week in years.
 
I'm returning once more to our top story. Kamala Harris announcing her plan to ease the inflation situation for middle-class Americans. Just hours ago, 
 
 the Democratic presidential candidate laid out her economic agenda during a policy speech in North Carolina. An ambitious set of proposals that was 
 
 also lacking in specific details. Harris promised to build an opportunity economy with more affordable housing and health care, as well as expanded 
 
 tax credits for families. She also proposed a federal ban on price gouging by companies that she claims are keeping prices artificially high.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  Many of the big food companies are seeing their highest profits in two decades. And while many grocery chains pass along these savings. Others 
 
 still aren't. Look, I know most businesses are creating jobs, contributing to our economy, and playing by the rules, but some are not. And that's just 
 
 not right. And we need to take action when that is the case.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Harris contrasting her plan with Donald Trump's push for things like expanded tariffs, which she says will only worsen the inflation 
 
 burden on consumers. Economics and political commentator Catherine Rampell joins us now. Great to have you on the show with us.
 
To me it was a masterclass in vote winning policy pronouncements, keeping the light on too many of the details and wrapping it up by saying, oh, and 
 
 by the way, I'm going to reduce the deficit at the same time. What did you make of what she announced today?
 
CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  I mean, the things you just mentioned sound great. It would be nice to know how she'll 
 
 achieve any of them. I thought it was interesting actually. I thought she did a very good job of talking about how she's fighting for regular working 
 
 people and contrasting herself with her opponents focused on tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy. I thought that was very effective.
 
It was interesting to me that she seems to have toned down some of the rhetoric that her campaign was putting out earlier this week on the price 
 
 gouging stuff. If you look at the materials that the campaign had sent out a few days ago to reporters, perhaps you received them as well, Julia, it 
 
 was about punishing companies for raising prices above their costs and things like that, and echoed some bill text that is currently sitting in 
 
 the Senate, proposed by Senators Bob Casey and Elizabeth Warren. That is basically price controls.
 
Casey seems to think she has endorsed his bill. He put out a press release today saying she had, but the speech text itself was much more restrained 
 
 and basically talked about, you know, enforcing existing antitrust laws.
 
So, you know, I think she -- there may be attuned to some of the criticism they've received. You're right. It was very light on details. And I think 
 
 we should expect that going forward because the more details they put out the more scrutiny it'll get. As long as it's a lofty idea like, we're just 
 
 going to reduce the deficit without saying how, you know, it's easy to get behind.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, that's called politics. What did you think on the on the housing suggestion as well? I mean, she did cut to the core of parts, at 
 
 least of the problem, which is, quite frankly, the fact that we don't have enough houses in the United States, that we're not producing enough or 
 
 making enough houses. I mean, we saw the housing starts data today, which was at a four-year low. She didn't mention the fact that mortgage rates for 
 
 many people are so high and a lot of people are locked in at lower rates and until they come down, they won't shift.
 
What do you think of the prospect of saying by the end of her term, she'll make a further 3 million houses? Not a simple promise either.
 
RAMPELL:  Yes. Again, that would be great. The problem is, unfortunately, the federal government doesn't have a lot of power over the obstacles that 
 
 have been holding back housing. At the state and local level, that's where you're seeing problems with red tape, with permitting issues, zoning, 
 
 things like that, nimbyism.
 
And so, what really needs to happen is more effort at the state and local level to make it easier to build. She talked about wanting to work with 
 
 states and localities, and I hope she does, but again, there just aren't that many tools at her disposal.
 
She had mentioned both today and in materials sent to reporters earlier that she was going to push for another tax credit, a new kind of tax credit 
 
 to encourage more building for homes of first-time homebuyers. I'm not exactly sure how that will work, but at least it's kind of in the right 
 
 direction.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
I'm more concerned about another policy that she had -- she has released on housing to give first-time home buyers I think it was a $25,000 dollar tax 
 
 credit, which sounds nice, but demand is already really strong. If you do have constrained supply, that tax credit is likely just going to get passed 
 
 along in the form of higher prices. It's just going to make housing prices, you know, $25,000 -- maybe not the full $25,000 but more expensive. It's 
 
 going to go into the pocket of sellers.
 
So, subsidizing demand, not going to be super useful, but the supply stuff, if they can get it done would be helpful.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And those median house prices already up 20 percent to your point. And if mortgage rates come down, that could fill demand and push 
 
 prices higher. It's sort of a game of whack a mole. Keep the details light and be consistent and stick to the script, which I think is a huge contrast 
 
 that was made between this speech and obviously what we got from the former president earlier this week. There should be lessons learned. Catherine, 
 
 always fantastic to speak to you. Thank you and have a great weekend.
 
RAMPELL:  Thank you. You too.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. Now, to the weather is the Atlantic and Pacific oceans experience massive storms. Typhoon Ampil is finally moving away from 
 
 Japan. While Hurricane Ernesto now a Category 2 is approaching Bermuda. For more on this and joined by Chad. Always volatile weather, Chad, to discuss. 
 
 Talk us through what we can expect over the weekend.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  I think we're going to see Bermuda get hit by probably the eyewall of Ernesto and at least Tokyo did not get hit by 
 
 the eyewall of Ampil. This thing is now moving out into the ocean, but there are very strong waves along the coast here of Japan.
 
This is what it looked like earlier today. Large waves, five to 10 meters high crashing into the shore here because this was a very large typhoon, 
 
 the equivalent of a Category 4 Atlantic hurricane. And now, it is finally moving away. But it did put down quite a bit of rain, over half a month's 
 
 rain in Tokyo itself there at 89 millimeters and along the coast, 171, the highest gust that I could find was 96 KPH. Probably some higher than that 
 
 gusts along any of these buoys out there or any of the ships that may have been moored out in the ocean.
 
It does move away and it continues to move away and that's the good news. Doesn't do much after that. It may get up toward the Aleutian Island chain 
 
 still as something, but not a typhoon.
 
Here's Ernesto. Not very impressive looking on the satellite, but still seeing big winds when the hurricane hunters are flying through it. It is 
 
 still a 100-mile per hour storm, 160 kilometers per hour. There's Bermuda with the hurricane warning, and that's how close we are right now.
 
And by morning, it will be right over the island itself. Whether it gets the middle of the eye, the left side, or the right side, it's still 
 
 wobbling back and forth just a little bit, but there's not much time to prepare now. Eventually, though, it could even make a little run at Nova 
 
 Scotia. And there you go, for Saint John's. But not any longer in the middle of the cone. That doesn't mean you're not in the cone, because you 
 
 certainly still are.
 
But 100-mile per hour gusts without a doubt here in Bermuda and the islands. And for the most part by morning hours things begin to move away. 
 
 But Bermuda could be in tropical storm force winds for more than 36 hours all day tomorrow and then some. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow. Bracing for that. We wish everybody well. Chad Myers, thank you. Have a good weekend, sir.
 
MYERS:  You too.
 
CHATTERLEY:  We'll be right back. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to a remarkable story of East meets West via the medium of pirate TV. An engineer in Canada got quite the surprise when he 
 
 started picking up North Korean TV on his satellite dish. Given that the material offers a rare glimpse of propaganda within the hermit kingdom, he 
 
 decided to post clips online and was stunned by the reaction. Will Ripley has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Using his backyard satellite dish, Peter Fairlie was just scanning for sports 
 
 channels.
 
PETER FAIRLIE, BROADCAST ENGINEER:  There we go. We have a signal.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  But the Canadian engineer from outside Toronto stumbled upon something he never expected.
 
FAIRLIE:  And that's when I saw the color bars, the test card, and the Pyongyang written on it. That triggered my curiosity. Like, was this really 
 
 coming from North Korea?
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Sure enough it was a live satellite feed of North Korean state television. From daily dancer size, to cooking programs, to 
 
 patriotic propaganda.
 
FAIRLIE:  It's very kind of 1980s too. It's very MTV, their videos.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Broadcasting mass games, military parades, and yes, missile launches to some 26 million people who call Kim Jong Un's secret 
 
 state home.
 
FAIRLIE:  The videos all of Kim, how great he is and everybody, you know, crying and loving him.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Peter began recording.
 
RIPLEY:  Do you feel like these programs do have power to influence people's minds?
 
FAIRLIE:  Absolutely. After watching one full day of the North Korean content, for two nights in a row, I just had a lot of very bizarre dreams 
 
 as if I was there.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Posting an edited version on his YouTube channel.
 
RIPLEY:  Did you think this was going to go viral?
 
FAIRLIE:  No, absolutely not.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Go viral, he did. Peter's videos racking up almost 2 million views in less than two months.
 
FAIRLIE:  People were basically giving comments that were all over the spectrum from they loved it to they were terrified by it.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Viewers call the content surreal, almost like going back in time. Some of the most popular clips, Kim Jong Un visiting hot 
 
 springs, opening a dinosaur park.
 
FAIRLIE:  Because of Kim, it's become kind of a cult following. Whenever Kim comes on, everybody goes crazy. It's like, he -- how -- that's the 
 
 funny part. That's probably the quirkiest part. People kept saying, give me more, give me more, I want to see more.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  Peter's pirated Pyongyang propaganda, a window into what the North Korean State wants its people to see and believe.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Coming up for us, Meals on Wheels. Maybe your next burger could be delivered by a robot. More on that next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." If you live in Los Angeles, you might be in for a surprise the next time you order a late-night burger. 
 
 Shake Shack announcing a new partnership with Serve Robotics to fulfill some of its orders. The food will arrive in a self-driving shopping cart 
 
 that travels along the sidewalk.
 
Serve Robotics started out in 2017 as a division of Postmates. Some of its other partners include Uber Eats and 7-Eleven stores. For now, the L.A. 
 
 based company is sticking close to home. However, it does have plans to scale up across the United States to as many as 2,000 robots by the end of 
 
 next year. Ali Kashani is the CEO of Serve Robotics and he joins us now.
 
Ali, fantastic to have you with us. Just start with the robot. It's described as A.I. trained. What does this mean and how does it work?
 
ALI KASHANI, CEO, SERVE ROBOTICS:  Well, robots are really A.I. embodied. There's a lot of different models running in there that help the robot 
 
 figure out how to navigate the city safely and reliably. And they work today.
 
If you go to L.A. and open Uber Eats, you can order from 300 different restaurants, and now, that includes Shake Shack, and you'll get your food 
 
 in a robot even more reliably than if you order with a human courier.
 
CHATTERLEY:  There's going to be delivery workers that are not pleased to hear that. Just compare and contrast, because it does work over shorter 
 
 distances, I believe. So, it was on the pavement or the sidewalk as I described there. So, I guess the first benefit is you're cutting out 
 
 traffic and having to travel on ordinary roads at times of high traffic flow.
 
KASHANI:  That's right. It's very complimentary, actually, because no technology is going to do all deliveries. Short distance deliveries are 
 
 usually in congested areas. There's no parking, there's traffic. Our robots don't deal with any of that. They can take care of those short distance 
 
 deliveries. Longer distance deliveries, you can have humans or other modes of, you know, transportation. But you really don't need a two-ton vehicle 
 
 to move two-pound burritos a mile. It's just a very inefficient way of doing things.
 
And by removing those cars, we remove congestion, pollution, also the risk of accidents and fatality. 20 people die every day in car accidents in the 
 
 U.S. alone. And I think that's something that we shouldn't just accept.
 
CHATTERLEY:  This is an emission saving there as well. And one of the other things, of course, as we mentioned in the teaser for this, it doesn't 
 
 require tipping either. So, what kind of cost saving do you think for merchants does this provide and therefore for consumers too, I guess?
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
KASHANI:  Yes, this is going to make last mile more efficient. Right now, if you order something from China, it takes $2 to bring it here to the 
 
 U.S., but if you order it from Chinatown, it costs about $10. So, we want to flip that because it should be cheaper to get something from nearby and 
 
 the robots can actually help with that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And I believe you have 48 in operation. You're planning to scale up to 2,000 by the end of next year. What does one of these robots 
 
 cost? And do you have the money required now with the partnerships that you're talking about to scale up to that degree?
 
KASHANI:  That's right. Yes, we took the company public. Actually, recently, we listed on NASDAQ a couple of months ago, have raised about $55 
 
 million in just last few months, and are in a position to go build these 2,000 robots. We also signed a top tier auto manufacturer in North America, 
 
 Magna International. They're going to be building our robots for us. So, we are ready to scale.
 
CHATTERLEY:  How difficult is it to steal from, Ali, whether it's stealing the robot itself or stealing something out of it?
 
KASHANI:  It's not typical at all. It's -- we've been operating for a few years now, and we've completed something around 99.8, 99.9 percent of our 
 
 data very successfully, which is just phenomenal. So, it's -- and those 0.1 percent is -- it includes any kind of failure, including a very, very rare 
 
 incident that food might get stolen.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow. So, people just aren't trying to open them or they're just sort of amused by the novelty perhaps?
 
KASHANI:  Yes. I mean, look, are in busy places. They operate during day or busy hours in general. So, it's not like they're at, you know, 4:00 a.m. in 
 
 a back alley. Also, they have cameras. And, you know, I'm sure when mailboxes were first introduced, people worried about their stuff just 
 
 sitting in a box out there. And now, you don't even look at a mailbox. Our robots are going to be like mailbox on wheels soon, and people mostly get 
 
 used to it very quickly.
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. So, I mentioned Los Angeles. If people are ordering burgers there. Talk to me about plans for scaling up to whether it's other 
 
 cities or perhaps other nations, too. I appreciate you have plenty of orders to deal with at the moment, but just give us a sense of what the 
 
 outlook is for the company.
 
KASHANI:  Yes. Well, we're going to launch a new market in the U.S., another city in Q2 of next year. As we scale up to 2,000 robots. We are 
 
 first going to put another 250 robots in L.A. in Q1 and then go to a new market. But a lot of our partners, such as Uber Eats, Shake Shack, we have 
 
 other partners like 7-Eleven and Delivery Hero, they're all international. So, it's just a matter of time before we expand outside the U.S. In fact, 
 
 likely starting with Canada. We have a team in Vancouver and we've been considering Vancouver as one of our expansion markets as well.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Fantastic. Ali, great to have you on. Thank you so much for sharing and we'll continue to track your progress.
 
KASHANI:  Thank you for having me.
 
CHATTERLEY:  The CEO of Serve Robotics there. Have a great weekend.
 
Now, if you missed any of our interviews today, they'll be on my X and Instagram pages. You can search for @jchatterleyCNN.
 
For now, coming up, kicking off a brand-new season, the English Premier League beginning again with a bang as Manchester United take on Fulham. All 
 
 the details, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to some sheer panda-monium in Hong Kong as beloved giant panda Ying Ying gives birth to a set of twins. A male and 
 
 female. Ying Ying is now the oldest giant panda on record to give birth for the first time. These are also the first giant pandas to be born in Hong 
 
 Kong. The panda cubs are receiving around the clock care. And if all goes well, they could make their public debut in just a few months' time. I'm 
 
 trying to read and look at the videos, because that's very cute.
 
All right. Making its "First Move" on Friday, the English Premier League, a brand-new football season has just kicked off with Manchester United taking 
 
 on Fulham at Old Trafford. It almost looks as though things would end nil- nil until Joshua Zirkzee scored a thrilling 87th minute goal, putting Erik ten Hag's side at the top of the table.
 
For now, Patrick Snell is here with more, at least until Liverpool play.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Oh, Liverpool, Liverpool, Liverpool.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I couldn't help myself. Tell us more.
 
SNELL:  Oh yes, a winning start, Julia. Yes, we all had a real spring in our step in the office. It's been a fabulous summer of sports. You know, 
 
 we've had the Cricket World Cup, we've had the Copa America, the Euros, the Olympics, but the Premier League is back. Europe's top 40 leads swinging 
 
 back into action this week and next.
 
Man United off to a winning start at Old Trafford against visiting Fulham. Just the one goal in this match, and it comes, as you mentioned, from 
 
 United's new Dutch recruit. You mentioned him, Joshua Zirkzee. It was a really wonderful moment for him coming onto the field of play. Just past 
 
 the hour mark. And then, he picks the ball up in midfield.
 
We don't see it there, but he actually picked the ball up in midfield to set up the move. Casually rolls it out to the young Argentine, Alejandro 
 
 Garnacho. And then, just jogs nonchalantly into the puck. Flicks out a left footed in front of a Trafford end and guided into the back of the net. A 
 
 wonderful finish from him. He's pure composure. He really is.
 
It was a comedy of errors near the end as well. (INAUDIBLE) defending. And counters Garnacho miss from just a few yards out there. I think those 
 
 players, Julia, clearly thinking they're still in preseason training.
 
But anyway, one goal wins it for United, their manager, Erik ten Hag, very happy with three points. No question about that.
 
Let's hear now from the match winner, United's new Dutch scoring sensation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSHUA ZIRKZEE, SCORES ON MANCHESTER UNITED DEBUT:  I've been told that it's one of the best feelings here at Man United. So, I'm just very 
 
 thankful and blessed that I've could -- that I could experience it in my first game, of course. So, yes, it's an amazing feeling.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL:  Yes, Julia, just 23 years of age. He makes it all look so simple. Very humble young man. He signed from Bologna, the Italian club side. It's 
 
 a dream start to his United career.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I'm still cringing at that miss kick. That complete miss kick in front of the goal. Ouch.
 
SNELL:  Ouch.
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. So, let's talk about the most important things here, of course. Come next year, what about Liverpool's chances of stopping Man 
 
 City's reign of terror? Sorry, I mean title.
 
SNELL:  Julia, you are absolutely on fire tonight. Amazing stuff. Look. you're quite right. Liverpool is interesting because they are a very 
 
 talented team. They got a new Dutch head coach, at the helm, Arne Slot is in charge.
 
And the interesting start, Julia, about Liverpool, they're the only side in Europe's top five leagues that as of right now, yet to make a signing, yet 
 
 to make any signing at all. Now, there's still time. The window's still open in the Premier League for another two weeks. So, there is still time, 
 
 but Liverpool begin their campaign on Saturday against the Tractor Boys, newly promoted Ipswich Town. And you know, as well as I do, that newly 
 
 promoted club sides like to make a statement in front of their own fans, especially.
 
But when it comes to the title odds, I think look no further than the team you mentioned, Manchester City under Pep Guardiola. I don't expect there's 
 
 going to be too much difference. You know, they won the last four straight. No English club side ever in the history of the game over there has ever 
 
 won four straight top flight titles. They're looking to extend their own record and make that five.
 
I do think Arsenal will be building on the self-belief from last year. They did take the title race, Julia, to the final day of last season. The 
 
 Gunners haven't won it in over 20 years. Their last top flight title back in 2004 under Arsene Wenger. So, the North Londoners are desperate to try 
 
 and snap that streak.
 
I do question at times Arsenal's self-belief at the very highest level. When push comes to shove, when the title's on the line, when Guardiola and 
 
 his team are breathing down your neck, that's when it really counts. Arsenal are just jam packed full of quality players.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
But do they have the self-belief to end that 20-year plus drought? We shall see. I like Liverpool. Top four for Liverpool. And I would love my beloved 
 
 United to be in the top four. We'll see, though.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I know.
 
SNELL:  Long way to go.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I know. We've had an awesome summer of sport, but nothing beats the Premier League.
 
SNELL:  Agreed.
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's very exciting. Patrick, have a great weekend. Great to chat to you.
 
And finally, on "First Move," there's a theory that says if you put an infinite number of monkeys in a room with a typewriter, they'll eventually 
 
 produce Shakespeare. Well, that might be the case for monkeys, but it only takes one talented chimp to produce the masterpieces you see here.
 
Meet Limbani, the superstar chimpanzee of the Zoological Wildlife Foundation in Miami. With more than a million Instagram followers, Limbani 
 
 is an internet sensation thanks to his fabulous finger painting and his charismatic demeanor. You can even buy some of his original paintings 
 
 online, but we warn you, good art doesn't come cheap. Some of the pieces sell for more than $1,200. Now, that is a business model.
 
Just about wrapping up the show. Thank you for joining us. Have a great weekend and we'll see you next week.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END