Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: London, U.K. Mayor Sadiq Khan Interviewed on Rise of Antisemitic Incidents in His City; Hurricane Helene Threatens Parts of Florida as Storms Gathers Strength; Commissioner of Franklin County, Florida, Urges Residents to Leave Area before Arrival of Hurricane Helene. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired September 26, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Since October 7th, the United States has seen a huge spike in antisemitic incidents. It's a huge problem in cities across this country. And I was just looking, London has been struggling with this as well. The CST, according to CST, the antisemitic incidents nearly doubled in the first half of this year compared to last year across the U.K. And this war is now threatening to expand in the Middle East. What more can you do?
 
MAYOR SADIQ KHAN, LONDON:  Well, firstly, we mustn't conflate what's happening in the Middle East and what Israel is doing with hatred of Jewish people. Jewish people should not have hatred set against them, should not be the victims of vile, antisemitism, racism, and so forth. 
 
Unfortunately, history tells us when there's a rise in tension in the Middle East, there's a rise in antisemitism. Those of us that aren't Jewish need to provide allyship to our Jewish friends, colleagues, and neighbors, say no to antisemitism. You can be a supporter of Israel existing, but be critical of the policies of Netanyahu. You can be supportive of your Jewish friends and colleagues and neighbors, but be critical of the policies of the IDF. I think what we don't want to see is Jewish friends, colleagues, and neighbors cowering, being scared to go about their business. And it's really important we understand, yes, of course, I'm critical of some of the policies of Netanyahu, what the IDF are doing. It's heartbreaking. There are hostages still being kept in Gaza. But actually, the IDF can't carry on indiscriminately killing people in Gaza. There is no excuse for antisemitism. 
 
BOLDUAN:  Mayor, it's great to have you. Thanks for coming in. We really appreciate your time. 
 
KHAN:  Pleasure. 
 
BOLDUAN:  Thank you.
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is CNN breaking news. 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I'm John Berman in Tallahassee, Florida. We are tracking hurricane Helene. This is CNN's special live coverage. It is starting to get soggy here. The outer bands passing through. And the breaking news is this -- the National Hurricane Center just issued its 8:00 alert. Helene is now a category two storm. It has strengthened. It has sustained winds of 100 miles per hour, even higher gusts than that. It is intensifying as it moves towards Florida.
 
This morning, one of the biggest concerns along the Florida coast, particularly the Big Bend area, is storm surge. It could reach up to 20 feet. The National Weather Service said that is un-survivable. Not just the storm surge that will be an issue here. The storm is moving quickly, which means it will bring hurricane force winds up past Tallahassee, into Georgia, 85 million people are under watches and warnings this morning. A tornado watch issued for 17 million people in Florida. That includes Tampa, Miami, Fort Myers, and Orlando. There is a whole lot going on as this storm pushes in. 
 
Let's get right to CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar with the very latest and this 8:00 a.m. update. Allison, what can you tell us? 
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yes, so let's look at the new numbers. So yes, so the sustained winds are now 100 miles per hour. That is gusting to 115. Forward movement still the same at 12 miles per hour, but that is also expected to increase as we go through the day today. 
 
And you mentioned one of the newer things we've had and issued is this tornado watch, valid until 8:00 pm eastern time tonight. And that includes most of the big cities here -- Tampa, Fort Myers, Miami, even Orlando. And we are likely to see more of these areas added on to it because we've had tornado warnings. We've got several active right now in Florida, but also one up a north, or up in South Carolina. So it's very likely believe we will see that tornado watch expand into portions of Georgia and the Carolinas as we go through the day and more of those outer bands begin to spread into some of these states. 
 
This storm is expected to strengthen even more, reaching major hurricane status once we get a little bit later into the day today before making landfall tonight near the Big Bend region. At that point, it should be moving at a forward speed of about 25 miles per hour or even faster. That's important because that means it can move pretty far inland before weakening back down to a tropical storm, impacting a lot of areas that are more than 100 miles away from the coast with hurricane strength winds. 
 
Now, another component of this is going to be the flooding, because we're talking a tremendous amount of rain. And for a lot of these areas, they had a recent cold front move through, so the ground is already saturated, which means that threshold for flooding automatically is a little bit different than it would be on dry ground. Most of these areas you're talking widespread, four to eight inches of rain. Some areas not out of the question, John, to pick up 10 or even 12 inches total. 
 
BERMAN:  Yes, and again, the rain is just beginning where I am, Allison, expecting maybe 10 inches by the time it's done. It's going to be a very, very wet 24 hours here in Tallahassee. CNN is up and down the coast where the storm will have an impact. Marybel Gonzalez is in Steinhatchee, Florida. First, though, let's go to Carlos Suarez in Gulfport, not far from Tampa. And Carlos, you're already starting to see some of that water push in.
 <br>[08:05:02]
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That's exactly right, John. Good morning. So we are in Gulfport. That is in Pinellas County, and we are in an area of Gulfport that is under a mandatory evacuation. And you're taking a look at the reason why, because you see just how much flooding we're already experiencing well ahead of the storm. 
 
And to give you a sense of just how close the bay is, my photographer might be able to push in. You're going to take a look at kind of where that woman is walking there. That is a beat each volleyball court, and you can already see where the bay has started to come into that part of where we are right now. It's not going to take a whole lot more for that water to go ahead and cross over onto the street that we are.
 
This part of Pinellas County, the Gulfport part of Pinellas County, is known to flood. We have been here covering two other hurricanes the past two years and this is pretty much how it's always looked. And we're talking about the fact that neither of those two hurricanes really had a direct hit. 
 
Now, over in Hillsborough County, just to the east of us, that is home to Tampa. There is also a mandatory evacuation order that went into effect yesterday. Folks that live around the bay we're told to go ahead and seek higher ground. Of course, this storm is to the west of us. It is expected to continue on the path that it's on. So this part of the Tampa Bay area is expected to get some pretty nasty weather, some tropical storms -- tropical storm force winds, but most of it is going to remain offshore. 
 
That said, John, all of this flooding is before the five to eight feet of storm surge that were expected to see throughout the day. John?
 
BERMAN:  Wow, that's something. Carlos, you said you wanted to show us how close the bay is. You're kind of in the bay already. And it could get even worse as the real storm surge pushes in over the next several hours. All right, Carlos, stay safe. 
 
Let's go to Marybel Gonzalez, who is in Steinhatchee, far north of where Carlos is. And I know storm surge is the major concern where you are, Marybel. 
 
MARYBEL GONZALEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  John, definitely. It remains a concern, and that sense of urgency is only intensifying as the rainfall that we're seeing right now, hurricane Helene just moments ago, we know, turning into a category two. So it is getting stronger and stronger as it nears an inches toward us.
 
As you can see why this is such a big concern, the rainfall, the flooding, the storm surge, as you just mentioned, take a look behind me. I think the last time we spoke, the water level of the Steinhatchee River was a little bit lower, but it is increasing. It is rising with every drop of raindrop that we see falling. Why is this worrisome? Because there are a lot of homes right off the riverbank. There are businesses. We are actually standing on the dock of a motel. And we know that this stock could be underwater in just a matter of hours.
 
Now, also right behind me, you see that there are some boats docked as well. They've been there all morning long. But we do expect that this catastrophic damage will impact all of the property and the homes that you see behind me. Mandatory evacuations, of course, are underway for those specific reasons. John?
 
BERMAN:  All right, Marybel Gonzalez in Steinhatchee, right in that Big Bend area where the storm could make landfall, thank you very much.
 
Also, in the direct path of the storm Franklin County, right in the panhandle. Again, part of that Big Bend area. With me now is County Commissioner Ricky Jones. Commissioner, thank you so much for being with us. And as we were looking at the map before, maybe we can show it again, you are right in the path of where this storm could make landfall. What are your biggest concerns right now? 
 
RICKY JONES, FRANKLIN COUNTY COMMISSIONER:  Good morning, John. Thank you. So our biggest concerns are what we started doing on Tuesday, and that's getting people evacuated from this area because we are such a low lying county. Really, it's about the health and safety of our residents and visitors.
 
BERMAN:  The storm surge, how dangerous could that be? 
 
JONES:  If it's 20 feet like they're saying, it's going to change the landscape in Franklin County, I can assure you that. It is not going to be a good thing. 
 
BERMAN:  One of the things that the weather center says is that that much storm surge would be un-survivable. What are your concerns for the people who may not have listened to the warnings you've been giving? 
 
JONES:  There's always that. There's always those that don't listen or those that just either don't want to leave. I really hope that we can have a conversation after the storm is over. But it's just one of those things growing up here in the panhandle of Florida. It's not a matter of if. It's a matter of when we're going to get a storm, and we've just done our best to prepare. 
 
BERMAN:  Yes. Look, you're the smart one right now. You're sitting inside. I'm out in the rain as these bands start to push through, and they're saturating the ground.
 <br>[08:10:04]
 
And then you add to that wind speeds of 100 to what could be 120, 130 miles per hour. And these giant trees, and I know you've got them in Franklin County. There here in Leon County also, these giant trees are a real threat, not just to people, but to power. How long do you worry that you could be without power there? 
 
JONES:  Well, during hurricane Michael, that was a significant amount of time. But I will say Duke Energy got everything up and running up very quickly here in Franklin County and throughout the area. That actually staged from Apalachicola airport, they turned that place into a small city. And that's the place they used to base out of during their response there. And it's open to them again. So if need be, we have at least provided a place for them to do their work, and we are confident that they can help us get up as quickly as possible.
 
BERMAN:  Commissioner, I want to give you one chance to speak to people who might be listening right now in Franklin County. What's important, most important message you want to send to them at the start of what could be a very challenging 24-hour period? 
 
JONES:  So I'll say this. I did an interview yesterday for a local station, and in that interview, I told him, and I had intended to ride this out because we were looking at a two, maybe a three. As of last night, my family and I've made the arrangements. We're leaving here soon after this interview. We will not be staying. Yes, there are still those that are first responders or sheriff's department all those people are still here and in place, those essential individuals. However, please leave. Just please do it. It's not worth it. Just get out. It'll either be here when you get back or it won't. But don't leave yourself in harm's way.
 
BERMAN:  It will either be here when you get back or it won't. Ricky Jones, commissioner of Franklin County, you and your family, please stay safe. Let us know how we can help. Thank you for your time. 
 
And Kate, again, these outer bands coming through right now, 200,000 people live in Tallahassee. They've never seen winds like what are forecast here, Kate, over the next 24 hours.
 
BOLDUAN:  It's really picking up. John you need to zip up your jacket. I'm starting to get concerned just about you as I'm watching you. As it's starting to come in, you need to adjust the attire, my love.
 
BERMAN:  It gets sticky, though. The problem is you keep the rain out, but the humidity in. So pick your poison, Kate. There's no right way to do it. 
 
BOLDUAN:  I concur, doctor. And I'm just proud of you to be there for us. OK, let me get right back to John. He's watching it all as this continues to develop and this massive storm is gaining speed, gaining strength, and making its way to the Florida coast.
 
We're also watching this this morning. The first sitting mayor of New York City to face federal charges. Eric Adams is remaining defiant this morning just as we're also about to learn exactly what charges he's facing as federal investigators conducted another search of the mayor's house this morning.
 
And we'll have continuing coverage with John in Florida of hurricane Helene. Right here you're looking at live pictures of Gulfport, Florida. You see the absolutely soaked roadway right there on the Florida coast. We've got much more as this massive and major hurricane is making its way to Florida. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:18:03]  
 
BOLDUAN: Breaking just moments ago, federal investigators are at Gracie Mansion, the home of New York City Mayor Eric Adams.  
 
This morning, his attorney just said that they came to get his phone and the way he put it, it was just to create a spectacle.  
 
An official says that they executed a search warrant at the property. Sources also say they as we've been talking about, the mayor has been indicted on at least one federal criminal charge.  
 
He has been under investigation for months over campaign fundraising and his ties to Turkish officials and businessmen.  
 
The exact charges that he is facing still unknown this morning, but that can likely change sometime today as the indictment could be unsealed.  
 
Joining us right now is CNN senior legal analyst, Elie Honig.  
 
One cough and let's go.  
 
This is a sealed indictment. What do we know and what don't we know?  
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: So right now we don't know what the exact charges are. We should find out later today when the indictment is unsealed, meaning when it becomes public.  
 
Now, important to know, this is a federal cases. This is a federal indictment, so it is not being charged by the Manhattan district attorney, it is not being charged by the New York state attorney general. It is the US Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York.  
 
Of course, Kate, there has been all sorts of smoke around Eric Adams for the last year or so. There have been a series of search warrants, subpoenas aimed at the mayor and his staff.  
 
And so the big question is, what is he charged with? How serious are the charges? And we may be able to get a sense from the indictment of how strong the evidence is.  
 
BOLDUAN: But then, what's the next steps?  
 
HONIG: Yes, so at some point, probably within the next handful of business days, he will have to make an appearance in court. The indictment will be read to him. He will enter his first plea, which will certainly be not guilty.  
 
They will set bail. I think this is definitely going to be a bail case where he is going to be released on certain conditions. He is not going to be locked up pending trial and then were moving towards eventually, it takes a while, but eventually we will get to a trial on these charges.  
 
BOLDUAN: And admittedly, maybe this is a dumb question, but while he is facing federal charges and this mess, can he remain in office? Can he remain in charge of the city?  
 
HONIG: Yes. Not a dumb question. He can remain in office. There is no law that says he has to step down.  
 
There is a sort of obscure provision in the law that says the governor of New York, Governor Hochul, actually has the ability to begin a proceeding to essentially remove him.  
 <br>[08:20:14]  
 
She has to know notify him. He has to be given a chance to respond to those allegations. So it will be interesting to see A., whether he resigns. So far he has been defiant. There is no indication the mayor intends to resign, and then B., whether the governor presses on to this.  
 
If he is removed somehow, or if he resigns, then the office would temporarily be held by a position here in the city called the Public Advocate, a man named Jumaane Williams.  
 
BOLDUAN: Right.  
 
HONIG: So there is a line of succession, but that is a big question. There have been politician saying that he cannot continue.  
 
Representative Ocasio-Cortez said that among others.  
 
BOLDUAN: That's right. Good to see you, Elie. Thank you.  
 
HONIG: Thank you. All right.  
 
BOLDUAN: Jessica.  
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN ANCHOR: We are tracking Hurricane Helene, which is now a Category Two storm and it is intensifying.  
 
Conditions will become life-threatening. We've got live coverage from Florida continuing throughout the morning.  
 
Also, we have new information on the efforts underway right now to secure a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:25:25]  
 
DEAN: And take a look. These are live pictures that Hurricane Helene's impacts are already being felt. This is Gulfport, Florida, and you can see the floodwaters there starting to build right now. It continues to gain strength spinning into the Gulf of Mexico.  
 
Helene is expected to become a major hurricane, Category Three or even higher in the coming hours and move on shore later tonight. We are going to continue to track that.  
 
Meantime, this morning, and we also have pictures of Naples, I am being told. You can see the surf very high there, the big waves coming in, again, as Helene continues to make its way there to the Florida Coast.  
 
This morning, a diplomatic push is underway to prevent a regional war from erupting in the Middle East. The Israeli military saying it struck about 75 targets in Lebanon overnight, forcing tens of thousands in Lebanon to flee their homes.  
 
Calls for de-escalation ramping up after Israel's military said it is preparing for a possible ground incursion into Lebanon. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is now headed to New York for the UN General Assembly where an Israeli official says talks of a potential ceasefire are a main motivator.  
 
CNN international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson is joining us now live from Tel Aviv.  
 
Nic, walk us through where talks stand right now.  
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Just before I get to that, let me give you what the IDF has just announced.  
 
The IDF says it is right now carrying out precise strikes in Beirut. What this has meant over the past week or so is that they have specific intelligence to target specific Hezbollah commanders and leaders.  
 
We don't know anything more at this stage, but I think that gives you a headline when we start to talk about the diplomacy, because although there is a discussion about a 21-day truce between the United States and France and a real push to move that forward, the prime minister is taking heat here for suggestions that he might have already agreed to it.  
 
He has been very clear and said that he isn't so far or hasn't so far made any comments about this 21-day truce proposal.  
 
He has said that he is giving full support fought for the military to go full force. We know that the IDF is poised, is ready to cross the border in an incursion if they get that order and what we've witnessed over the past 24 hours, although albeit a slight low in strikes overnight, there had been several rounds of Israeli strikes into Lebanon today, and along the border with Syria targeting Hezbollah. And also Hezbollah, firing dozens of missiles into Northern Israel, the medium and short-range missiles.  
 
So from a military point of view, we are nowhere near a truce; from a political point of view, it doesn't seem that that's anywhere near close either because the prime minister in Lebanon has also been taking heat for the idea that he might have agreed to this truce, and he says, he hasn't either.  
 
Politically, we are not there and I think from the IDF's perspective, they feel that they have the military momentum and this wouldn't be the time to cede that momentum into a truce.  
 
So, I think the diplomacy, if it is going to move ahead, is going to need a huge lift. It seems unlikely at the moment.  
 
DEAN: All right, Nic Robertson with the very latest on these precise airstrikes being carried out there in Beirut by the IDF. Thank you so much for that.  
 
And we are tracking Category Two Hurricane Helene. We are expecting to hear more from the Florida governor soon.  
 
John, what more can you tell us?  
 
BERMAN: I can tell you, it has been raining. The outer bands passing over this state.  
 
As you said, Jessica, Hurricane Helene has strengthened to a Category Two storm. It is expected to make landfall tonight as a major hurricane, that means Category Three or stronger.  
 
The winds could be higher than a hundred and ten, a hundred and twenty miles per hour, record-breaking storm surge in some places, wind damage as far north as Atlanta and rain, 10 to 15 inches. This one is going to be a real problem for tens of millions of people.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:30:00]