Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Trump Fined For Violating Gag Order; Trump On Trial; Keith Davidson Testifies In Court; Campus Protests; Classes Cancelled At The University Of North Carolina; Protesters Occupying A Building Threatened With Expulsion; Multiple Students Arrested; Biden Administration To Reclassify Marijuana; Islamophobia In India; Amazon's Strong Q1; Bumble Opens Door To Men; Men To Make The First Move; Bumble's Match Modification; Champions League Semifinals. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired April 30, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Our thoughts go out to all the families, friends and coworkers of these four heroes. May their memories be 
 
 a blessing.
 
If you ever miss an episode of "The Lead," you can listen to the show all two hours whence you get your podcasts. The news continues on CNN with my 
 
 friend Wolf Blitzer, right next door in a place I like to call "The Situation Room." I will see you tomorrow.
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Hello, it's 6:00 a.m. in Beijing, 3:00 p.m. in Los Angeles, and 6:00 p.m. here in Atlanta. I'm Lynda Kinkade. 
 
 And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
A warm welcome to "First Move." Here's your need to know. Held in contempt, Donald Trump is fined at his hush money trial for violating a gag order and 
 
 threatened with jail time if he does it again. The former president says it's unconstitutional and calls the trial ridiculous.
 
Campus clashes. Classes are cancelled at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. And students occupying a building at Columbia University 
 
 are threatened with expulsion.
 
And men set to make their first move. Dating app Bumble opens the door to men, starting conversations on the platform. All that and much more coming 
 
 up.
 
But first, the latest on Donald Trump's hush money trial, Keith Davidson, a former lawyer for Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal, testified about how 
 
 their deals were done, saying interest in the adult film star's story reached a crescendo when the infamous Access Hollywood tape came out.
 
Earlier Tuesday, the judge fined Trump $9,000 for violating his gag order. After that ruling, Trump moved the nine social media post that had got him 
 
 in trouble. And the judge also threatened the former president with jail time if he keeps violating those orders.
 
Here's what Donald Trump had to say after the court adjourned.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: This gag order is not only unique, it's totally unconstitutional. I'm the Republican candidate for president 
 
 of the United States. I received this honor in record time. Nobody's ever gone to faster. It's never happened. Nobody's ever got the numbers that we 
 
 got. And I'm sitting in a courthouse.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Our Kara Scannell has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): On the stand, the ex-lawyer for two women, a Playboy model and adult film star, at the center of former 
 
 President Donald Trump's criminal hush money trial.
 
Attorney Keith Davidson testified on Tuesday, revealing new details about the deal at the crux of the prosecution's case. A $130,000 payment to adult 
 
 film star Stormy Daniels to kill a story on an alleged affair with Trump weeks before the 2016 election. Davidson represented Daniels in the 
 
 arrangement, selling the story to Trump's former attorney, Michael Cohen. Trump denies having an affair with Daniels.
 
Prosecutors have alleged that Trump did not want to write the check, so Cohen put up the money on his behalf after Cohen confirmed, Trump would pay 
 
 him back. Davidson testified the release of the Access Hollywood tape in October 2016 sparked tremendous interest in her story.
 
The "National Enquirer" editor Dylan Howard texted Davidson that her story would be the end for Trump's campaign. Davidson text Howard, Trump is 
 
 effed. Wave the white flag. It's over people, Howard responded to Davidson's text. Howard said in a text, yes, but her talking and taking is 
 
 the final nail in the coffin, but he's effed already.
 
After Cohen missed the deadline to wire the money multiple times, Davidson testified he believed Cohen was stalling on the deal. Davidson said he told 
 
 Cohen, I don't believe a word really that you say. Cohen responded, goddamn it, what do you expect me to do? My guy is in five different states today. 
 
 And Davidson told him of his client's unhappiness. Recalling Cohen told him, goddamn it, I'll just do it myself. Davidson told the jury, I thought 
 
 he was trying to kick the can down the road until after the election.
 
Earlier in the day, the jury heard from Michael Cohen's former banker, Gary Farro, who testified about Cohen's scramble to open and fund an account in 
 
 late October of 2016. Farro revealed he did not know Cohen's payment was being made to an adult film star or that it was related to political 
 
 activity. If he had, he testified, it would have required a much longer review and potentially would not have opened the account.
 
Davidson also represented former Playboy model Karen McDougal, who alleged a nearly yearlong romantic affair with Trump, which Trump also denies.
 
Prosecutors asked Davidson about the agreement to sell McDougal's story to the "Enquirer," which was ultimately sold to the tabloid's parent company 
 
 for $150,000 and buried before the election. Davidson text Howard in June 2016, I have a blockbuster Trump story. Howard texts back, talk first 
 
 thing. I will get you more than anyone for it. You know why.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
Days later, Howard responded again, asking, did he cheat on Melania? Davidson testified there was an unspoken understanding that the "Enquirer" 
 
 bought her story to bury it because of a close affiliation between the tabloid's publisher and Trump, and that AMI would not run this story or any 
 
 story related to Karen and Donald Trump because it would tend to hurt Donald Trump.
 
While Davidson testified about McDougal and Daniels, Trump's son, Eric Trump, sat in the front row of the gallery listening. He is the first 
 
 family member of Trump's to attend the trial. And court began with Judge Juan Merchan handing down a much-anticipated ruling, saying Donald Trump 
 
 violated the gag order that prevents him from discussing witnesses in the case nine times. Trump was fined $9,000 total, $1,000 per violation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: For more on this, former Florida Judge Jeff Swartz joins me. He's also a professor at Cooley Law School. Good to have you with us.
 
JEFF SWARTZ, PROFESSOR, COOLEY LAW SCHOOL: Thank you. Good evening.
 
KINKADE: So, Professor, we heard that the judge ruled that Trump had violated his gag order nine times. He was fined $9,000 and also threatened 
 
 with jail time should he do it again. Under what circumstances would this 77-year-old former president face jail time for violating a gag order 
 
 again?
 
SWARTZ: Well, as a former judge, I can tell you that you don't put a threat like that on a piece of paper in an order and not be able to carry through 
 
 with it. So, the judge has put himself in a position that if Mr. Trump continues to willingly and defy the orders of the court, he's placed 
 
 himself in a position where he can do nothing less than some sort of incarceration, even if it's for a few hours or overnight or whatever it may 
 
 be to let Mr. Trump know that now you have been incarcerated, if you do it again, it's going to get even worse. He has to do something if, in fact, 
 
 Trump defies him, and that's really the circumstances under which the judge would do that.
 
KINKADE: And of course, Donald Trump claims that this gag order violates his right to free speech. Does it?
 
SWARTZ: No, it does not. The First Amendment is not absolute. And in fact, there are terms and conditions, and it's based upon a reasonableness 
 
 standard that you can, in fact, stop someone from speaking, whether it's slander or libel or yelling fire in a crowded theater, or doing things that 
 
 are meant to threaten a witness or a juror in a case.
 
The key here is that Mr. Trump doesn't understand that he's not just a former president of the United States, he is a defendant in a criminal case 
 
 and he has to comply like every other defendant does.
 
KINKADE: And of course, sir, today we heard from the former lawyer of adult film star Stormy Daniels and Playboy model Karen McDougal. Keith Davidson 
 
 testified speaking about the negotiations to sell the women's stories to the "National Enquirer." What did you make as him -- as far as witnesses 
 
 go?
 
SWARTZ: Well, first of all, based upon what I've been able to observe, he was very candid and very truthful, it seems. $The state tried desperately 
 
 to get him to tie what Mr. Cohen was doing to Mr. Trump. Those questions were objected to as speculative, and they were sustained.
 
Now, this is something that's going to be brought out by the defense. They're going to say, you never spoke to Mr. Trump, you don't know that Mr. 
 
 Trump told Mr. Cohen to do this, you only know this because this is what Mr. Cohen told you. And under those circumstances, he can't tie all of this 
 
 to Mr. Trump.
 
He's -- they're still leaving it basically up to Mr. Cohen to be able to convince the jury that he did everything he did for Mr. Trump. And that's 
 
 really where the crux of the matter is right now. What happened and who got paid and how much, that seems to be a done deal. There's no way to contest 
 
 that. The question is, did Mr. Trump ask Mr. Cohen to do this? And was it done for the purpose of interfering with the election?
 
KINKADE: And that is key, Professor, isn't it? Because the alleged affairs are not illegal, the hush money is not illegal, but of course, if these 
 
 payments were intended to hide details from voters before the 2016 election, that, of course, violates the campaign finance law, right?
 
SWARTZ: That's correct. And in what the state has tried to do, and we've seen this in their opening and in other places, they're trying to establish 
 
 there is a conspiracy among a number of people to have all this money transferred, to pay these women off in order to protect Mr. Trump's, 
 
 election bid.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
Now, you don't have to do something that's illegal to be participating in a conspiracy. All you have to do is agree to do it for the stated purpose. If 
 
 I asked you to go out and buy a car for me so I can go rob a bank and I will have a getaway car, buying a car is not an illegal act, but doing it 
 
 in furtherance of the conspiracy that is to rob the bank, that makes it an overt act and that makes you part of the conspiracy.
 
KINKADE: Professor Jeff Swartz, good to get you on the program. Thanks so much for joining us.
 
SWARTZ: My pleasure. Have a nice night.
 
KINKADE: You too. I want to turn to college campuses across the U.S. where we have seen chaos, confrontation, and at times clashes with authorities. 
 
 New York's Columbia University, pro-Palestinian protesters have barricaded themselves inside a university building, waving the Palestinian flag from 
 
 its rooftop. The university says those inside now face expulsion. It is advising people to stay away from the main campus.
 
And there are soaring tensions at other colleges too. Dozens of people arrested at the University of Texas at Austin and at Virginia Tech after 
 
 refusing to disperse.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going this way. You guys have closed the entrance. We are UCLA students. I have my ID right here.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: In California, this Jewish student shared this video of him being blocked from entering part of the UCLA campus by protesters. U.S. President 
 
 Joe Biden is condemning what he calls a ferocious surge of antisemitism nationwide.
 
In North Carolina, the situation turned physical with police pushing back protesters. Dozens of demonstrators were detained there. Well, our Dianne 
 
 Gallagher is at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, and joins us now live.
 
So, Dianne, good to have you with us. This university is certainly the latest to cancel classes there. Just talk to us about how police have been 
 
 responding today, because we certainly saw tensions rising.
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: And I will say that at this very moment, tensions are at a very low point, Lynda. You can kind of look 
 
 and see behind me. At this point, you have maintenance workers for the university with police watching on, erecting a fence, so no longer just 
 
 barricades, around this flagpole that's sort of become a flashpoint this afternoon of this protest when several of the protesters took the American 
 
 flag down, put the Palestinian flag up on this flagpole. That's when police sort of came into the situation.
 
The protesters had arms entwined around the flagpole. The officers who responded to that began pushing down and pulling down the protesters. The 
 
 protesters then we're beginning to throw water bottles in kind. We watched several of them hit the officers during that moment there. They then took 
 
 the Palestinian flag down, tried to put the American flag back up. It was taken back down by a protester. And you can see now, they are sort of 
 
 attempting to make it to where -- there's a man who brought his own flag and tried to put it up, but sort of attempting to make this less accessible 
 
 right now.
 
You can probably see behind me it's a very small crowd. The majority of them are media and a few students just hanging around very different than 
 
 what we had earlier this afternoon around 2:00, 3:00, 4:00 p.m. That was the most tense that we witnessed. We do know that this morning students 
 
 said that there were violent arrests when their encampment was swept by university and police officials around 6:00 a.m.
 
But at the moment It is calm here at the University of North Carolina, Lynda. We have seen a significant increase in police presence, as well as 
 
 riot gear with police bringing them into staging areas. And just a significant increase in the number of officers here on campus as well.
 
KINKADE: All right. Dianne Gallagher at the University of North Carolina. Good to have you there on the scene for us. Thanks so much.
 
I want to turn now to Julia Vargas Jones who's at Columbia university. Good to have you there, Julia. So, we know that people are occupying the campus 
 
 building, even the White House responded saying, this is the wrong approach. We know those students have been threatened with expulsion. 
 
 Police also threatening charges?
 
JULIA VARGAS JONES, CNN REPORTER: Yes, Lynda. So, behind me here you see this small protest from students and mostly from a crowd from the outside. 
 
 But this is the only entrance for Columbia University right now. I'm going to take you on a little bit of a tour and I'll get to your question 
 
 shortly.
 
Basically, the big question looming over our campus now is will Columbia call in the New York Police Department again to help clear out the 
 
 protesters. The big reason they did that to begin with is that, you see right here, we're starting to get the set up for commencement graduation. 
 
 This is a big moment for Columbia, for any university that are expecting hundreds, about 15,000 people are supposed to graduate in just a couple of 
 
 weeks. And this is the state of campus over here.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
We still have tents set up from almost two weeks ago, Lynda. So, this is causing so much mayhem at Columbia's campus that they can't start really 
 
 setting up for graduation right now. I haven't -- we haven't really shown much of how the rest of campus is doing, but I will turn around and show 
 
 you the building where students are still barricaded.
 
As of 2:00 p.m. yesterday, that's the encampment that students and protesters were supposed to vacate. That didn't happen. That deadline came 
 
 and went. That's when you saw the protests escalate. And now, moving on to Hamilton Hall. I'm going to show you how the situation is here now.
 
Students -- a few dozen students have been barricaded inside this building. This is the building where historically there have been protests at 
 
 Columbia against the Vietnam War, against apartheid in South Africa. So, there is a lot of meaning behind the choice of this building for students 
 
 to occupy it.
 
Around 12:30 last night, there was a human chain of staff, faculty, students, and protesters. We don't know if all the people that are inside 
 
 are Columbia students. We know some of them are. We have no idea how many there are. They're not really talking to media. Every time I've tried and 
 
 asked a few questions, I'm told, we're not talking to media. Please don't film me. I am only allowed on campus because I am a student and I have my 
 
 student ID.
 
Right now, if I were to leave and come back, I would not be allowed in. Now, it's only students who live on campus and those who have essential 
 
 staff positions that need to be here.
 
But as you can see, it's all still barricaded. These were all of the patio furniture that's usually around other parts of the lawn that was all pushed 
 
 up here. There's chairs inside, zip ties, and there's a pulley system which is now not here, but this is how students and supporters of the pro-
 
 Palestinian protesters have been getting food, water, and coffee up to students up here.
 
And there's a brand-new encampment. We haven't shown this yet either. Some of the tents that were on the other side of the lawn were brought here 
 
 today, just actually a couple hours ago. And like I said, the big question that we're facing is, what does Columbia do now? They've already said that 
 
 students that are inside here are facing expulsion, but how do they get them out, Lynda? I think that's the question that president of Columbia 
 
 University, Minouche Shafik, is trying to wrestle with right now.
 
KINKADE: Yes. Certainly, a lot of people waiting with bated breath to see what that response will entail. Julia Vargas Jones, good to have you with 
 
 us. Thanks so much.
 
Well, still to come, you are going to get your up to the minute weather forecast. Plus, India's general election taking place amid dangerous 
 
 tensions between the country's Muslim and Hindu populations. Many pointing the finger at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for making the situation worse. 
 
 We'll have a special report.
 
Plus, a few clouds in Amazon's just released results. The tech giant surpassing first quarter expectations thanks to ad sales and cloud 
 
 computing growth. All those details when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:21:12]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade. In today's "Money Move," a rough way to close out the month of April on Wall Street. All the 
 
 major averages fell by well over 1 percent. The NASDAQ tumbled more than 2 percent. And you can blame it on a hotter than expected read on U.S. labor 
 
 calls that raised new inflationary concerns. And all this before the Fed's updated inflationary outlook and policy statement on Wednesday.
 
McDonald's also warning their consumers are pulling back on spending due to higher prices. Starbucks shares are tumbling more than 12 percent in 
 
 afterhours trading after reporting slowing sales as well.
 
And in Asia, the major averages finished April trading mostly higher. The Shanghai Composite was -- and the exception amid a disappointing read on 
 
 Chinese factory activity.
 
Well, in other business news, Amazon is the latest big tech firm to report strong first quarter results. The company shares 2 percent in afterhours 
 
 trading on news that Q1 profits tripled to more than $10 billion. Amazon CEO calling it "a good start to the year." Not a bad start at all.
 
Paul La Monica joins me now. He's a senior markets analyst writer at Barron's. Good to have you with us, Paul. So, Amazon investors should be 
 
 happy. Really strong results across the board.
 
PAUL LA MONICA, SENIOR MARKETS ANALYSIS WRITER, BARRON'S: Yes, obviously, Lynda, you know, very, very solid numbers for Amazon, not just in the 
 
 consumer retail business, but with AWS, their massive cloud hosting business, that's getting a lift from artificial intelligence, generative 
 
 A.I., a big driver of growth. And then advertising.
 
Keep in mind that Amazon recently has started to advertise, have advertisements and ad revenue on Prime video. So, that is another new 
 
 revenue stream for Amazon, and revenue in advertising was up nearly 25 percent and more.
 
KINKADE: I mean, that's just incredible, isn't it? I mean, ad sales this year in the U.S. with it being an election year, it's no surprise that ad 
 
 sales in general are up, but that's quite a significant result, really.
 
LA MONICA: Yes, it is, especially when you consider that Amazon is a relatively new player to advertising, stepping up its ad games so that it 
 
 can be a little bit more competitive with the likes of other giants like Facebook owner Meta platforms and Google and YouTube parent Alphabet, those 
 
 two, you know, continue to obviously control the lion's share of digital ad growth, but Amazon is catching up very rapidly.
 
KINKADE: And of course, it's really pushing, right, to infuse A.I. across all its online businesses, right?
 
LA MONICA: Yes, definitely. I think that A.I. is a particularly big driver of growth in AWS, the cloud business, having, you know, independent smaller 
 
 sellers that use AWS have the ability to use A.I. to have better listings and better search results, and that drives more sales and more revenue for 
 
 those companies as well as Amazon, obviously.
 
So, a big part of the ecosystem now, and I think Amazon, you know, proving that A.I. is not just for the hardware companies like NVIDIA that have 
 
 benefited from the strong adoption of artificial intelligence.
 
KINKADE: Amazon CEO no doubt will be celebrating tonight. Paul La Monica, good to have you with us. Thanks so much.
 
LA MONICA: Thank you.
 
KINKADE: Well, for weeks, Kenya has struggled with heavy flooding. More than 170 people have been killed. Dozens are missing. And close to 200,000 
 
 Kenyans have been forced to leave their homes, with Nairobi County being the worst hit.
 
Well, for more on this, I'm joined by Chad Myers. I mean, how's the situation looking there right now, Chad?
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Lynda, another 150 millimeters of rain coming down in the next 48 to 72 hours. That's six inches on top of the 27 
 
 inches of rain that Nairobi has picked up just in April alone. So, today was a fairly dry day, but the waters obviously aren't still going down. 
 
 Because if it's in the mountains, all of that water has to run down into the city before it finally goes away.
 
694 millimeters. Get out a meter stick and see where 694 is. 69 centimeters of rainfall anywhere will cause flooding. But there were places in Kenya, 
 
 this big square right here, that were 400 percent of normal just for this month alone. We expect it. This is when the big heavy rainfall comes in the 
 
 middle of the spring, when the intertropical convergence zone is right over the top. And then later on, by June, it's all gone. And it doesn't rain at 
 
 all.
 
But here is the problem, they had too much too fast and still more coming down. We're coming down everywhere that you see yellow, that's at least 50, 
 
 some spots, 150 more millimeters. So, that's another six inches of rainfall still to come down.
 
In America, we're seeing our chance of severe weather again today with tornado watches still posted and they'll go on to about 11:00 tonight in 
 
 places. Already had one tornado on the ground officially in Kansas. Saw some pictures of that on YouTube live stream here. But more storms tomorrow 
 
 again. This is just the time of year when America gets the severe weather, hail, wind, and of course, yes, the tornadoes. There's been more than 120 
 
 tornadoes just in the past five days or so.
 
So, here goes the rainfall for parts of China as well, right where we don't want it. The same story we've been talking about, Lynda. This is just a 
 
 broken record one day after another of 100 millimeters, four inches of rainfall. And then another day, and then it breaks for a couple days and 
 
 then it's back. This is just kind of a pattern we're all stuck in right now.
 
KINKADE: Sunny spring. All right. Chad Myers, good to get that update, staying across the door, thank you.
 
We are going to take a quick break. We have much more news on "First Move" in just a moment. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:17]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade with a look at more international headlines this hour. Well, large groups of protesters 
 
 into Tbilisi, Georgia have clashed with police outside the country's parliament throughout the night there.
 
Demonstrators are angry over the so-called foreign agents bill, which would require organizations to declare funding sources from outside of Georgia. 
 
 Critics say the bill would hurt the country's bid to join the European Union.
 
Haiti's Transitional Council has proposed a new interim prime minister. Fritz Belizaire is the country's former sports minister. The council is 
 
 responsible for setting up elections with the goal of eventually handing over power to a new president. Haiti has faced waves of violence and unrest 
 
 since its last president was assassinated back in 2021.
 
The Philippine Coast Guard says one of its ships was damaged by a water cannon fired by a Chinese Coast Guard vessel. The incident took place in a 
 
 disputed area of the South China Sea. China also targeted another Philippine government ship. The Chinese Coast Guard said on social media 
 
 that it had expelled the two ships for "intruding."
 
The Biden administration will move to reclassify marijuana as a lower risk substance. That's according to a person familiar with the plans. Currently, 
 
 the U.S. federal government lists cannabis as a highly addictive schedule one drug on the same level as heroin. If the approval process is 
 
 successful, marijuana will move down to a schedule three. Most states already allow medical use of cannabis, with almost half also permitting 
 
 recreational use by adults.
 
Well, turning to one of our top stories now, pro-Palestinian demonstrations on university campuses across the U.S. More than a thousand people have 
 
 been arrested so far across more than two dozen campuses.
 
At Columbia University, the epicenter of this movement against Israel's war in Gaza, one group began occupying a campus building overnight. The school 
 
 is now threatening expulsion to the students involved. And at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, a CNN crew witnessed police 
 
 turn physical as they push back protesters.
 
Well, Grant Steinberger is the head of the Hill Foundation at the University of Wisconsin, and he spoke to CNN a few hours ago about how he 
 
 sees the changing nature of the protests.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GREG STEINBERGER, CEO AND PRESIDENT, HILLEL FOUNDATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN: How do we engage in civic education? How do students? Show their 
 
 right to free protest at the protest in an appropriate manner?
 
So, protest is one thing and it's a great cause and we support and participated in all sorts of protests. But the line has changed with the 
 
 creation of an encampment and with tension and heightened energy that is creating for an unhealthy climate for Jewish students.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, I want to welcome now one of the student protesters here in Atlanta, Jaanaki Radhakrishnan, is a student at Emory University. She was 
 
 arrested last week, defiantly singing a gospel anthem as police carried her away. Jaanaki is now facing charges, and to be clear, we can't discuss the 
 
 legal proceedings in any detail. And she joins us now. Good to have you with us.
 
JAANAKI RADHAKRISHNAN, STUDENT PROTESTER: Hi, thank you so much for having me.
 
KINKADE: So Jaanaki, you are a second-year student at Emory on a full scholarship studying anthropology and religion. You were there protesting 
 
 on Thursday. How did things unfold?
 
RADHAKRISHNAN: Yes. So, on Thursday, students and community members were peacefully protesting, occupying the main quad of Emory's campus. We were 
 
 giving out food, singing songs, handing out literature when police and state troopers raided the quad. They were using extreme force, pepper spray 
 
 bullets, and really violently arresting people.
 
KINKADE: So, you joined this protest. You have a message. We have heard the chants, disclose, divest. What specifically do you want these universities 
 
 to divest from?
 
RADHAKRISHNAN: Yes. So, most universities have financial ties to the Israeli apartheid state and therefore, the occupation in Gaza and the 
 
 genocide of the Palestinian people at Emory, like, many private universities, our investments are not made public information. And that is 
 
 why the disclosed part is so key. But we know there are financial ties.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
We can make very educated assumptions based on the funding sources that our university has, and the deals that we make. And here at Emory, one of the 
 
 most concrete ties that we have is Emory's investment and involvement in the Cop City project.
 
The Atlanta Police Department works directly with the idea of sharing tactics of violence and brutalization through the Georgia International Law 
 
 Enforcement Exchange program or GILEE. So, our demands include divestment from the Israeli apartheid state, but also from the Cop City project as a 
 
 whole.
 
KINKADE: I want to ask you, Jaanaki, about what you think about how widespread these protests have become, because we are seeing them across 
 
 the U.S. from coast to coast, but also several campuses in the U.K., Europe, even Australia also joining this movement. What do you make of 
 
 that?
 
RADHAKRISHNAN: Yes. I mean, I think it just speaks to the severity of this issue that students across the country -- across the world are willing to 
 
 put their bodies on the line, their educations, their futures. And, I mean, I think if we're being honest, about the state of police violence, their 
 
 lives. I think this generation is saying to the world that we're not willing to accept this kind of violence and oppression and business as 
 
 usual is not going to continue so long as this genocide does.
 
So, I think that students across the country are saying that if the children of Gaza can't go to school, then neither will we.
 
KINKADE: And we heard at least one university say to protesters, give us your proposal for how you want us to divest. We haven't heard that from 
 
 anyone else. What is the end goal for this protest movement?
 
KINKADE: I mean, the end goal is to end the occupation, stop the violence and restore peace. But we are saying to our universities that our tuition 
 
 dollars are not going to fund this violence, that we're not going to be complicit as the constituents of these institutions. And I think that it's 
 
 really easy for universities to sort of shift the burden to students to determine exactly what divestment looks like. But the reality is that they 
 
 are the experts and that there are people whose job it is, who are paid exorbitant amounts of money to maintain the university's investment 
 
 portfolios.
 
And I think that if universities are confused as to how to divest, they should look to the legacy of the divestments from South African apartheid, 
 
 from fossil fuels, there's significant documented history of universities divesting from situations of violence. And so, I think it's frankly 
 
 ridiculous for them to ask that of their students.
 
KINKADE: And just finally, Jaanaki, you are facing criminal trespassing charges, which are upgraded from disorderly conduct. Will this impact your 
 
 scholarship? And are you worried about any other repercussions?
 
RADHAKRISHNAN: You know, the short answer is, I don't know. We have seen that universities are engaging in this sort of massive unprecedented 
 
 repression. So, yes, I'm worried and we're all worried about how this could affect our standing as students and our futures.
 
But any loss that we face is so minuscule compared to what is happening in Gaza. And so, we are willing to take these risks because Palestine is worth 
 
 fighting for. And I think that it's so key to remember that our message in all of this is for the world to keep their eyes on Palestine and to do 
 
 everything within their power to stop this genocide.
 
KINKADE: Jaanaki Radhakrishnan, we appreciate your time today and for sharing your perspective. Thanks so much.
 
RADHAKRISHNAN: Yes, thank you.
 
KINKADE: Well, India's massive election is underway right now, and it is exposing the country's stark religious divide. Prime Minister Narendra Modi 
 
 is running for re-election as head of the BJP, and he's been accused of using Islamophobia as part of his campaign.
 
India's Muslims say his rhetoric is not isolated. Anti-Muslim speech has risen dramatically in recent months, with most incidences taking place in 
 
 states that are ruled by the BJP. Our own Will Ripley is on the ground in India.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In Varanasi, on India's holiest river, the Ganges, Hindus worship with the purifying power of fire. 
 
 But smoldering religious tensions risk igniting a dangerous conflict between India's Hindu nationalists and their Muslim neighbors, who tell us 
 
 they no longer feel welcome or safe.
 
We came here as tensions are rising over this 17th century mosque. Hindus say it sits on land stolen from them hundreds of years ago. Now, they're 
 
 fighting in court to get it back.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
SM YASEEN, MUSLIM LEADER: My community is very much worried.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Longtime Muslim leader SM Yaseen says Hindus are trying to take over their mosque.
 
RIPLEY: How difficult is it to fight this in court?
 
YASEEN: It's very difficult. Nobody is listening to us. Nobody.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Yaseen blames India's popular prime minister, Narendra Modi, for mixing politics and religion. Modi's political opponents say he's 
 
 marginalizing the nation's more than 200 million Muslims.
 
YASEEN: They are treating us as second-class citizens.
 
SWAMI JITENDRANAND SARASWATI, HINDU RELIGIOUS LEADER (through translator): If they're saying they feel like they are second-class citizens, then this 
 
 makes me happy.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Swami Jitendranand Saraswati is a Hindu spiritual leader with views on Muslims many would consider Islamophobic.
 
SARASWATI (through translator): In the blood of a Muslim, there is a desire to want to riot all the time.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Muslim shopkeeper Shamsher Ali feels like he's being pushed out.
 
SHAMSHER ALI, MUSLIM SHOPKEEPER (through translator): Anything can happen at any point. That is the amount of hate now. They say, leave the country. 
 
 Where will we go? We were born here. We will die here. This is my country.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): A country where violence against Muslims is on the rise. A Delhi police officer was caught on camera last month kicking a 
 
 group of Muslim men praying by the side of the road. The video went viral. The officer suspended. Another police officer arrested for killing three 
 
 Muslims on a train, praising the prime minister while standing over their bodies.
 
The worst was in 2020. Violence broke out between Hindus and Muslims in the capital, New Delhi. Dozens of people died, mostly Muslims. It happened 
 
 around the same time Modi was meeting then-President Donald Trump. Even those who survived one of the darkest chapters in India's recent history 
 
 will never be the same.
 
Nasir Ali says a Hindu man shot him in the face near his home, the one place he should have been safe. He says the police did practically nothing, 
 
 a charge they deny.
 
NASIR ALI, DELHI RESIDENT (through translator): Everyone was feeling unsafe. We can no longer rely on the police.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): A court order called their investigation casual, callous, and farcical. Four years later, the case is still ongoing in a 
 
 higher court.
 
RIPLEY: Is there justice for Muslims like you in India today?
 
ALI (through translator): No. Our only crime is that we are Muslims.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): The national spokesperson for Prime Minister Modi's party, the BJP, says people of all religions have the same rights.
 
RIPLEY: Is this a Hindu first government?
 
JAIVEER SHERGILL, NATIONAL SPOKESPERSON, BHARATIYA JANATA PARTY: India by fabric, by design, by structure, by constitution, is secular. India's 
 
 constitution protects the Indian democracy. No political party in country is strong enough to bulldoze the constitution, to bulldoze the will of the 
 
 people.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Muslim-owned buildings are literally being bulldozed in what the government calls a crackdown on illegal construction and 
 
 accused criminals. A brand of bulldozer justice all too common in India.
 
Prime Minister Modi accused of adding fuel to the fire when he used a derogatory term for Muslims at a recent election rally.
 
NARENDRA MODI, INDIAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Should you hard earned money be given to infiltrators?
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): He's running for a rare third term.
 
RIPLEY: What is the worst that could happen, in your view, over the next five years?
 
YASEEN: What happened, I don't know, but that will be not good for our country.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Many Muslims in Modi's India say it doesn't feel like their country anymore.
 
RIPLEY: Prime Minister Modi has said in interviews that everyone's equal here in India, but then you have that campaign rhetoric calling hundreds of 
 
 millions of his own citizens infiltrators, and it does raise questions about this globally accepted narrative about India, that it's a nation on 
 
 the rise with the fastest growing major economy.
 
I had no idea until landing here just how many people on the ground say they're being marginalized under Prime Minister Modi.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, New Delhi, India.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, still ahead on "First Move," letting men make the first move. The dating app that once had strict rules about who could flirt first 
 
 is making a match modification. We'll explain after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:47:25]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. Well, call it a case of connection correction. The dating app Bumble created a buzz when it first launched a decade ago with 
 
 strict rules about who could make the first move. But with the internet dating scene changing pretty fast, you could say Bumble is tweaking its 
 
 online profile. Well, Clare Duffy is on the Bumble beat and joins us now.
 
Good to see you, Clare. So, Bumble was quite unique when it decided to allow women to make the first move 10 years ago. Now, it's changing, 
 
 allowing men to do just the same. Just explain what they're doing.
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: Right, Lynda. So, Bumble had always distinguished itself by requiring that women seeking matches with men be 
 
 the one to initiate the conversation and Bumble said that that helps to empower women, give them more control over their dating life.
 
Now, that's not necessarily going away. Women will still have the option to make the first move if they want to, but women users can also select to use 
 
 a new feature that Bumble is calling opening moves, which is a prompt that they can put on their profile, a question like, what somebody's dream 
 
 dinner guest would be. They can put that prompt on their profile as an indicator to their male matches that they want the man to make the first 
 
 move.
 
And Bumble says this still fits with that original mission of empowering women, but now, they're just giving women more control about who they want 
 
 to start the conversation.
 
KINKADE: So, Clare, were women finding it a burden to make the first move? I mean, why the change and how are these dating apps going? Because they 
 
 have been around for a while. Certainly, this seems like a move to sway more people to give it a go.
 
DUFFY: Right. So, this feature is part of a larger relaunch of Bumble under new CEO Lidiane Jones, who took over from Bumble's founder earlier this 
 
 year. And she's facing this sort of interesting confluence of factors right now. On one hand, Bumble had a tricky year last year, the company posted a 
 
 $1.9 million net loss. And so, they're seeking to return to growth, return to profitability.
 
At the same time, a lot of single people have sort of soured on dating apps. People are kind of tired of swiping and looking to find more in-
 
 person connections. So, Bumble is hoping that this relaunch is going to help draw people back to the app and really help people find more 
 
 successful matches, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Fair enough. And just quickly, have you ever tried these apps, Clare?
 
DUFFY: You know, I am happily out of the dating scene these days. But hopefully, this really will give women more control, more options for their 
 
 dating lives.
 
KINKADE: Me too. My marriage was a result of a blind date. Very old school. Clare Duffy, good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
Well, still to come. Bayern Munich clashing with the 14-time champions, Real Madrid, in the first leg of the Champions League semifinal. We'll have 
 
 their result Tuesday night next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:52:21]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back to "First Move." I'm Lynda Kinkade. Let's turn to sports in the first leg of the Champions League semifinal. A two all draw 
 
 for Real Madrid and Beyond Munich. And my friend Patrick Snell joins us for more details. And this was a thrilling match, Patrick, really right up to 
 
 the very end.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN SPORT ANCHOR: Yes. Hi, Lynda. Yes. Tuesday night, another Champions League thriller, Real Madrid, Bayern Munich, a four-goal 
 
 classic in Bavaria. Real taking the lead in this semifinal as we jump to the action at the Allianz Arena. Real taking the lead in this one through 
 
 their brilliant, brilliant Brazilian Vinicius Junior.
 
But Bayern responding very well. Actually, now we're caught up. This is Vinicius Junior with a wonderful opening goal of the match there for the 
 
 opener. But I will say, Bayern Munich roared on by the home fans, came roaring back in style. Leroy Sane leveling masses there for one apiece in 
 
 the Bavarian capital.
 
And then a bit of a clumsy foul there. Bayern winning a penalty. You're never going to guess who takes it. It's Harry Kane, of course. Bayern 2-1 
 
 up at this point. Plenty of time for Real though. And they get a penalty of their own. It's not the best defending, I will say, and it's the South 
 
 American player, Vinicius Junior, smashing it into the back of the net. Two all, the final score.
 
And later on, Wednesday, I'm sure we're going to see more drama when Kylian Mbappe and PSG visit Borussia Dortmund in the other semi.
 
KINKADE: I know what you'll be doing with your time. But I want to turn, Patrick, to the U.S. football news. Taylor Swift's boyfriend has signed 
 
 what is an eye-watering deal to continue playing with the Kansas City Chiefs.
 
SNELL: Yes, he has. We're talking three-time Super Bowl champ, Travis Kelce, signing a record contract this is for NFL tight ends. That's 
 
 according to the 34-year old's representatives. Now, Kelcey's an 11-year veteran in the league. He's calling it an honor and a pleasure.
 
So, what's the contract worth? I hear anyone ask you. Well, a sports salary tracker indicating it's going to be $34.25 million. It runs through 2027, 
 
 that's $17.125 million yearly average. And it outpaces New York Giants tight end Darren Waller. Nice work, I tell you, if you can get it.
 
Amazing year this has been for Travis, no question. 2024 is already seen him win his third career Super Bowl title. And then, of course, is that 
 
 high-profile relationship with music superstar, let me try, oh yes, Taylor Swift. I recall, Lynda, after winning that third Super Bowl, he and Swift 
 
 took a vacation in the Bahamas and did an exclusive interview with "People" magazine, the tight end, sharing his joy about his current life. He 
 
 actually said that he's the happiest his ever been. So, I think that's absolutely wonderful.
 
And with that, it's right back to you.
 
KINKADE: Is in love grand, Patrick? Good to see you. Thanks so much. Good to see you too.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
Well, finally, "First Move," call it a case of being transported back in time in the Philippines. Have a look at these pictures. They come from the 
 
 northern part of the country where a dried-up dam has uncovered a 300-year- old settlement. A heat wave and drought are happening there right now. And exploring a lost city sounds fascinating, but people living there may 
 
 prefer rain rather than ruins. Still, fascinating to explore.
 
That wraps up our show for today. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Thanks so much for joining us. I'll see you back here same time tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END