Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump Picks Face Next Test In Confirmation Battle; Biden To Pardon Turkeys In Annual Thanksgiving Tradition; Today: Menendez Brothers Have Court Hearing In Bid To Be Released. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired November 25, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:48]
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning. You're live in the CNN Newsroom. I'm Jim Acosta in Washington.
 
We start this hour with new headwinds facing two of President elect Donald Trump's key cabinet picks, Pete Hegseth for secretary of defense and Tulsi Gabbard for the director of national intelligence. Despite having a Republican Senate majority, some lawmakers say they have serious questions about their records, which could threaten their upcoming confirmation hearings. CNN's Alayna Treene is live for us in West Palm Beach, Florida. Alayna, what's the latest?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Right. Well, Jim, I think when you look at how quickly Donald Trump has moved to fill out the core Cabinet for his second administration, now really the attention at Mar-a-Lago is turning to how they are going to get some of these controversial picks through their Senate confirmation processes. And two of the names that are really, I think, you know, we're hearing from people on Capitol Hill, but also the Trump team recognizes might have some -- there might be some concerns about that they need to assuage among members on the Hill are Tulsi Gabbard and Pete Hegseth.
 
Gabbard, specifically over some of her comments about her mistrust and skepticism regarding intelligence, but also some of the meetings that she has had in the past. I think, you know, her selection to be Donald Trump's director of national intelligence has really resurfaced her 2017 meeting when she went to Syria as a Democratic congresswoman and met with the Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad. That is one thing that we have heard kind of percolating now among senators who are going to be tasked with seeing her through her confirmation process.
 
We heard some of them, including Senator Tammy Duckworth as well as Republican Senator James Lankford address this yesterday. Why don't you take a listen to what they said?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. TAMMY DUCKWORTH (D-IL): She is, in terms of the intelligence community, very unqualified. Plus, she is potentially compromised and could be and has -- is there questions about whether or not she is now a Russian asset? SEN. JAMES LANKFORD (R-OK): Well, we'll have lots of questions. She met with Bashir Assad. We'll want to know what the purpose was and what the direction for that was. As a member of Congress, we want to get a chance to talk about past comments that she's made and get them into full context. So, sure, there -- there's -- there's comments that are floating out there, but we want to be able to know the rest of the story.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE: Now, Jim, part of what the Trump team is going to be doing is they have kind of started assigning some people from the Trump team to help shepherd these different appointees through their processes. But also for their meetings on Capitol Hill. They are lining these different appointees up to go onto Capitol Hill to meet one-on-one behind closed doors with senators and try to figure out then what those core vulnerability are -- vulnerabilities are and then what they can do to try and give them reassurances and address those concerns before, of course, we see these confirmations play out in public.
 
Now, as for another controversial pick, Pete Hegseth, he did go through those meetings last week alongside the VP elect, JD Vance. But some of the concerns that we've been hearing from senators is one, whether or not he's qualified or has enough credentials to be in that top role for the Pentagon. But also some of the recent reports we have been getting, and we recently saw that police report that was covered a lot last week on sexual assault allegations against him
 
 So some of these picks are going to have an uphill battle, likely, you know, very tense confirmation processes ahead. But this is really the focus now as Donald Trump continues to really name his last few names for his cabinet roles. This is really the talk among what's going on with the transition team and at Mar-a-Lago right now, seeing what they can do to get these people through because, again, Donald Trump chose these different people for a reason.
 
They recognize that some of them seem unconventional, maybe not what normal traditional Republicans would choose. He wants these different people to be disruptors in these agencies. He's picking these people because he wants them in these roles. And so they're kind of back chilling as much as they can to get them through this process. Jim?
 
ACOSTA: All right, Alayna Treene, thank you.
 
And one of the reasons why some senators say the vetting process of Trump's cabinet picks could take longer is because of the lack of FBI background checks. But GOP senators say that's not what everyday Americans are concerned about.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. BILL HAGERTY (R-TN): I don't think the American public cares who does the background checks. What the American public cares about is to see the mandate that they voted in delivered upon.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) ACOSTA: Join me now to discuss this issue of the Trump team skipping background checks for some of these cabinet picks is CNN senior law enforcement analyst, former deputy director of the FBI, Andrew McCabe. Andrew, good to see you as always.
 <br>[11:05:10]
 
I mean, what do you make of -- of the Trump team skipping these FBI background checks? I mean, anybody who -- you've been around Washington a long time, I mean this is sort of like, you know, the meat and potatoes of government. I mean this is what government does to make sure the people who are at these top levels aren't compromised in some way by a foreign government and so on.
 
ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Yes, Jim, I mean it's a very basic function that the bureau plays here, has always played fairly uncontroversially. I mean there's been a couple of issues in the last few years. But the way it works is that you conduct the background check on behalf at the client's request. And in this case the client is the transition team or the new administration.
 
And -- and the bureau does its -- the work that we are constantly relying on it to do. It's fair, it's impartial, it's complete. They go out. They take a look at every aspect of this candidate. They have access to information and systems that private entities don't have. And so they do a very thorough and complete job. They deliver that to the client.
 
And then that information is also shared with Congress so that our lawmakers who ultimately in the Senate who approve the confirmations are all working off the same information. And so it's, you know, it would be like buying a house and, you know, not getting it inspected before you bought it. Like that's just something that everyone does because you want to know they want there to be complete transparency as to what you're getting into.
 
ACOSTA: Right. I mean --
 
MCCABE: So as I understand it, the Trump --
 
ACOSTA: -- hire employees at a company. Andrew, stand by. I want you to hang on just a second. The President is speaking over at the White House. We're going to go to that live. We'll come back to Andrew in just a moment.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: -- coming from Northville, Minnesota. I was in Northville last year with our -- last year with my secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, and our great friend the Minnesota Governor Tim Walz, talking about our historic investment in transforming rural America.
 
Back in Minnesota, John's been in the turkey grower for 35 years. He's raised over 4 million turkeys. Whoa. And with the help of his 9-year- old son Grant, they've raised two special guests we're honoring today, Peach and Blossom. Let's bring Peach up to join us. They tell me, Peach weighs about 42 pounds. What did you say Peach? Peach is making a last minute plea here.
 
The two turkeys are named after Delaware state flower, the Peach Blossom. And by the way, Delaware has a long history of growing peaches. In fact, the peach pie in our state is one of my favorite. It's state dessert. And Peach Blossom, flowers also symbolizes resilience which is quite frankly fitting for today.
 
This White House tradition began when turkey was presented to President Truman and that president, then President George H.W. Bush began pardoning turkeys. In the last four years I have the honor to continue that tradition by pardoning Peanut Butter and Jelly, Chocolate and Chip, Liberty and Belle. And today Peach and Blossom will join the free birds of the United States of America.
 
Born this past July at the Zimmerman family farm, raised by the, yes, I hear you. Peach wants to speak a little bit here. Raised by the family with the help of neighboring children -- neighborhood children who helped the turkey get ready for this very moment. According to experts, Peach weighs 41 pounds and loves to eat hot dish and tater tots and cross country skis, you know, dreams to see.
 
But the real dream he has is to see the northern lights, I'm told. He lives by the motto, keep calm and gobble on. Meanwhile, Blossom weighs 40 pounds, loves these cheese curds and watch boxing. Dreams of visit to visit each one of Minnesota's 10,000 lakes, lives by the motto, no foul play, just Minnesota Nice. They just finished two day road trip from Minnesota to Washington. By the way, you have chairs. Sit down. I forgot you had chairs.
 <br>[11:10:10]
 
I'm sorry. Started thinking about the arduous trip they made, and you guys are still standing. Well, that trip is 1,100 miles. It takes 16.5 hours.  Through it all, they stayed calm, and they gobbled on and are still gobbling. They were s -- they -- they were -- stayed nice, listening to their favorite music, which apparently includes the song "Living on a Prayer."
 
Well, fellas, your prayer is going to be answered today. Based on your temperament and commitment to being productive members of society, I hereby pardon Peach and Blossom. They will now head back to Farmamerica, Minnesota's center for agricultural int -- interpretation, to serve as educational ambassadors of America's top turkey growing state and inspire the next generation of agricultural students. Congratulations. 
 
Let me close on a more serious note. This event marks the official start of the holiday season here in Washington. It's also my last time to speak here as your president during this season and give thanks and gratitude. So, let me say to you, it's been the honor of my life. I'm forever grateful.
 
Later today, my wife, Jill, and I will travel to Staten Island, New York, for a Friendsgiving with members of the Coast Guard and their families to demonstrate our gratitude for their service and sacrifice, like my son. We also keep in our hearts those who have lost so much, who will have an empty seat at the di --at the Thanksgiving dinner table tonight or, excuse me, Thursday night. May we use this moment to take time from our busy lives and focus on what matters most, our families. My dad used to have an expression, he'd say, family is the beginning, the middle, and the end, our friends and our neighbors, and the fact that we blessed these -- to live in America, the greatest country on Earth. And that's not hyperbole. We are.
 
No matter what, in America, we never give up. We keep going. We keep the faith. We just have to remember who we are. We're the United States of America. There is nothing, nothing, nothing beyond our capacity when we do it together. So, happy Thanksgiving, America. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you.
 
ACOSTA: All right, that's President Biden over there at the White House. The annual Thanksgiving pardon tradition that they do every year. The President there noting that this will be his last one as President of the United States. I want to go back to Andrew McCabe. We're going to just toss aside the notion of a gentle segue and get back into the discussion were having. Because, you know, I will say, Andrew, I imagine there are some viewers at home who are having a tough time absorbing, you know, something as lighthearted as a -- as a Thanksgiving pardon for turkeys when, I mean, there have been some really serious questions raised about some of these Trump cabinet picks. And I'm just curious what some of your thoughts are on that. I mean, you have the Tulsi Gabbard pick for director of National Intelligence.
 
That obviously has some effect on the FBI's work. But there's also Donald Trump's pick for attorney general now that Matt Gaetz has gone by the wayside, the former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, who has said things like that they need to investigate the investigators in this country. I want to play a little bit of this and get your thoughts on the other side.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAM BONDI, TRUMP'S PICK TO BE ATTORNEY GENERAL: When Republicans take back the White House and we will be back in there in 18 months or less, you know what's going to happen? The Department of Justice, the prosecutors will be prosecuted, the bad ones, the investigators will be investigated because the deep state last term for President Trump, they were hiding in the shadows, but now they have a spotlight on them and they can all be invented investigated. We can clean house next term. And that's what has to happen.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: Andrew, your thoughts when you hear that? I mean, do you just write that off as bluster and hyperbole or do you think that there -- there is something to be concerned about?
 
MCCABE: Well, Jim, I never write anything off as just bluster and hyperbole. I feel fundamentally you have to take people at their word. And so these -- these comments do concern me. And they concern me for a couple of reasons, but the most basic of which is that Pam Bondi knows how this system works. Pam Bondi knows better. She was a prosecutor for almost 20 years.
 <br>[11:15:09]
 
She was a state attorney general in Florida. She understands how the system works. She knows that Jack Smith and his team didn't set out on some political errand to go after Donald Trump. They did an investigation. They collected evidence, presented the evidence to a grand jury, and 23 of Donald Trump's fellow citizens determined there was probable cause to believe he had committed a federal crime both in Florida and D.C. She knows that. That's how that works. It's not some the product of some inner DOJ, anti-Republican conspiracy. That's nonsense.
 
I think she has the capability and the background and the qualifications to go in and be a good attorney general. Every attorney general shows up with an agenda and -- and -- and a desire to pursue the President's policy goals. That's all totally fair. But if she goes in there with the sole mission to disrupt and destroy and penalize people for their association with any investigation, I think that could be a very divisive and destructive thing for the department and ultimately undermine the safety of -- of Americans.
 
ACOSTA: All right. Andrew McCabe, thanks very much for your time. We appreciate it. Pardon the interruption. Thanks a lot.
 
MCCABE: No worries. Thank you Jim.
 
ACOSTA: You too.
 
Still ahead this hour, Lyle and Erik Menendez are getting ready to appear in court, making their first time that they'll be facing a judge in 28 years. The latest strategy to have their murder convictions overturned. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:20:56]
 
ACOSTA: Right now, Secretary of State Tony Blinken is meeting with his counterparts at his final G7 Summit in Italy. Top of the agenda Israel's war on two fronts and the intensifying conflict between Ukraine and Russia. Ukraine says it repelled a widespread attack involving dozens of drones over the weekend. CNN's Fred Pleitgen joins us now from Moscow. Fred, is the Kremlin saying anything specific about this G7 beyond the general rhetoric directed at the west over Ukraine? What can you tell us?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, certainly what we've heard is some new rhetoric from coming from the Kremlin and also from the deputy foreign minister as well. Jim, one of the things that we've really heard here over the weekend is the Russians really increasing their threats specifically towards the United States, saying that if the U.S. continues to support Ukraine the way that it has and also continues to allow Ukraine to use some of those surface to surface missiles to strike deep into Russian territory, continuously strike deep into Russian territory, that and then the threat is that Russia could attack American military objects. That's something that we heard from the Russians before the weekend.
 
But once again today, with the deputy foreign minister coming out and saying, look, the Russians using a massive intermediate range ballistic missile against a Ukrainian city this past week is an indication of what the Russians are willing to do if their red lines are crossed. That's something that we heard from them. And one of the other things that the deputy foreign minister also said is that he said that the Russians, as he put it, have security concerns in that region and they are willing to ensure those security concerns by all means necessary, obviously, also meaning some of that very heavy weaponry.
 
The other thing that we're seeing as well is sort of a waiting game the Kremlin seems to be playing as well, Jim, where they seem to be leaning towards and looking towards the Trump administration coming in. They obviously believe that there could be some sort of peace or armistice negotiations going on that could lead to a deal or some sort of ceasefire for Ukraine on terms favorable to Russia. That's something that a couple of hours ago we heard from the spokesman from the Kremlin who said that he believes that talk about peace and ending the war is something that's coming from President-elect Trump's cabinet picks, but not something that they're hearing from the Biden administration, Jim.
 
ACOSTA: All right, Fred Pleitgen in Moscow for us. Thanks as always, Fred. Really appreciate it.
 
In just a couple of hours from now, two of the most notorious killers in Los Angeles history will appear in court virtually. Erik and Lyle Menendez are set to make their first court appearance in 28 years. They are serving sentences of life without parole for gunning down their parents in their Beverly Hills mansion. But last month, the L.A. District Attorney George Gascon recommended that a judge resentence them, which could set them free immediately.
 
Joining us now to discuss is criminal defense attorney and former prosecutor Ann Bremner. Ann, nice to see you again. This is a status hearing today. I -- I tried to press the new incoming DA about all of this on -- in the last hour of this program to -- to no avail. He wasn't really tipping his hand. But can you walk us through the significance of what we're about to see today and what we're going to see moving forward?
 
ANNE BREMNER, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Sure. Sorry. Happy Thanksgiving, by the way. Nice to see you again, Jim.
 
ACOSTA: You, too.
 
BREMNER: What -- it's a status hearing because we have a new DA coming in on December 3rd, which is before the December 11th hearing for planned, quote unquote, resentencing that was requested by the old DA, George Gascon. So basically, the judge today has to basically decide to say, will that date work for the new prosecutor? Will that date work for everybody else concerned? And what's going to happen there? Is it going to be a request for manslaughter, where they'd walk out the door? Would it be a request to resentence on homicide without special circumstances? That would be life with parole as opposed to without parole. They would go before a parole board and maybe be set free. There's all kinds of possibilities in this case, but it certainly has changed with the new DA. 
 
ACOSTA: And that new incoming DA takes office next week. He says he wants to thoroughly review the case and the argument for resentencing. The decision to resentence or not ultimately falls to the judge. So how much of an impact can they really have on the case? Does it really just come down to the judge and -- and how he or she views the law here?
 <br>[11:25:05]
 
BREMNER: Before this new prosecutor came in, I said there were three things in life that are certain, death, taxes, and that the Menendez brothers would get out. But now things are completely different. I think there are different sentiments. Now we have a conservative prosecutor. It is up to the judge ultimately. But the prosecutor has discretion. It's their case. And this prosecutor said he's law and order. That's what he ran on against Gascon, who basically was a woke DA he said, and that's why he won with this whole stance of law and order. So he's going to look at the whole case, he's going to read everything, he's going to talk to family members, he's going to talk to those that are against any kind of resentencing and make a recommendation to the judge. So that's huge.
 
I mean, the judge has to be informed basically with what the DA tells him or her. And this DA may be seeing completely different tune than the last DA who lost an election. Some say he asked for re sentencing because for political reasons to basically win the election, which of course he didn't.
 
ACOSTA: Yes, it didn't work out that way. All right, Anne Bremner, thanks so much for your time. A little tight on time this morning, but really appreciate it. And Happy Thanksgiving to you.
 
All right. Still ahead -- still ahead this hour, much has been said about the President-elect's choice for Health and Human Services secretary. What about the people who will report to RFK Jr. if he has confirmed? A closer look at the picks for FDA, CDC and surgeon general, it's coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)