Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Schumer: Iran Ready To Respond Swiftly To Any Potential Iran Attack; Today Marks Six Months Since October 7 Hamas Attacks; Solar Eclipse Less Than 24 Hours Away, 32 Million In Path Of Totality. Aired 3-4p ET

Aired April 07, 2024 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:00:00]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Sunday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
All right, new this hour, US Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer says the US is ready to swiftly respond to any potential Iranian attack.
 
CNN has learned the US is on high alert and actively preparing for a significant Iranian attack that could come as soon as this week, targeting Israeli or American assets in the region.
 
All of this follows an airstrike in Syria last week that killed top Iranian commanders, an attack which Iran blames on Israel.
 
White House correspondent, Priscilla Alvarez is in Washington for us. Priscilla, what exactly is Schumer elaborating on?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, he is saying that the US is prepared to respond and respond swiftly in response to that potential attack by Iran that could come in the coming days, in response as you mentioned there -- in response to I should say, that Israeli airstrike in Damascus that killed multiple top Iranian commanders.
 
Now, the US and Israeli governments have been on high alert. They have also been in close touch and knowing that this could happen and going so far as to say that they see it as "inevitable."
 
Now, we are not clear on how this attack would unfold nor when it would happen exactly, but officials and dissipate that it would target us or Israeli assets in the Middle East, and so Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, making clear that the US is preparing for any outcome here. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): I know the president and his team are working hard to prevent escalation and we are prepared to defend any attack and respond swiftly if necessary.
 
Tensions in the Middle East are very high, that's why we want to pass the National Security Supplemental. It is critical, and we are all urging Speaker Johnson to put it on the floor of the House.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ: Now according to officials, the worst-case scenario here would be a direct strike buyer Iran on Israel that could rapidly escalate an already tense region. The White House, of course, trying to avoid a broader regional conflict.
 
Again, the Senate leader are saying today that the US though, is prepared for all possibilities.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Priscilla Alvarez, thanks so much in Washington.
 
Here, we are also following a major development in the war in Gaza. After months of intense fighting, Israel says it is withdrawing its ground forces from the southern city of Khan Younis. Israel described the area as a major Hamas stronghold, and we are also learning that Israel's planned reopening of the Erez Border Crossing in the north of Gaza is being delayed.
 
It would have allowed for more aid to flow into Gaza, and it all comes as Israel marks a grim milestone. It has been exactly six months today since Hamas attacked.
 
The Gaza Ministry of Health says more than 33,000 Palestinians have been killed in the war.
 
Nic Robertson is in Jerusalem for us, Ben Wedeman and Beirut.
 
Nic, let's go to you first. What is Israel saying about that withdrawal from Khan Younis.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, the way that it is framing it and the language that it is using is intended to convey that this is a significant shift, and the timing, because important talks are again trying to sort of bridge that gap between Hamas and Israel over hostage release and ceasefire, so potentially, it has significance there or significance of course, for the troops themselves who have been in Khan Younis since December, and significant, of course, for the Palestinians of Khan Younis, who many of whom obviously fled and today had a chance to go back and see some of the damage.
 
But the way the IDF is framing this, they say it is marking, it is effectively -- or marking an affective ending of ground operations in Gaza in their current form. So this was a very big division. The 98th Division that has pulled out.
 
We were on the border today. We saw strikes still going into Khan Younis. We saw the dozens upon dozens of tanks and dozens upon dozens of armored fighting vehicles now out of Gaza, parked up in their field. 
 
In the fields, troops were stripping equipment out of them, repairing them and the IDF is saying that the troops now will get recuperation and preparation for their next operations and the IDF is leaving very clearly the door open for an operation on that major place where Palestinians living in the south of Gaza, Rafah, but also saying they are leaving significant forces in the north both of Gaza, 162nd division and another brigade of tough combat troops there.
 
So, the message is clear. There is a drawdown, but the war is not over, and I think we've got a sense of that from General Herzi Halevi, the army IDF chief-of-staff, saying we still know that there are Hamas commanders who are hiding out, and the clear implication is they will reach out and target them as the opportunity arises.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Nic Robertson, thanks so much.
 
Let's go to Ben Wedeman now in Beirut.
 
Israel is also saying today that it is preparing to move to attack posture from defense on the border with Lebanon. What is the interpretation of that?
 <br>[15:05:10]
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is a statement that came out from the Israeli military in Arabic, as well as in English. The English statement just talks about readiness for the transition from defense to offense. The Arabic version, however, as translated came out as preparing to move from defense to attack, so that set off alarm bells certainly here in Lebanon.
 
Now, over the last few days, we've had a series of developments that certainly indicate the tensions are rising. Yesterday, there were as many as 10 Hezbollah strikes on Israeli positions and also yesterday, Hezbollah was able to shoot down up a Hermes 19 Israeli drone in Lebanese airspace. That is a very sophisticated drone that has the capacity to fire missiles, as well as collect and relay information back to base.
 
Also a few days ago, we heard that the Israeli military has canceled all leaves for combat units and was recalling reservists for air defense units as well.
 
So certainly tensions rising and it is not made any better by the fact that everyone is anticipating some form of Iranian response to the attack on the Iranian consulate -- the Israeli attack on the Iranian consulate in Damascus.
 
Now the other your day, we did here the secretary general of Hezbollah, Hassan Nasrallah saying that the Iranian response is inevitable, but it will be an Iranian response, not via any of Iran's proxies or allies in the region -- Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Ben Wedeman and Nic Robertson, thanks to both of you. Appreciate it.
 
All right, let's bring in Aaron David Miller now. He is a former State Department Middle East negotiator and a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment. So good to see you. Let's focus on Gaza, what is happening there or not happening because Israel says it is withdrawing from Khan Younis. What do you believe is behind that?
 
AARON DAVID MILLER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: You know, Israel has initially may have deployed 100,000 forces for their ground campaign and I think they have demobilized a significant number of reserves and now I think they are simply down shifting. They are making a virtue out of necessity.
 
I am not sure they would argue that there is a need for a heavy-duty military response using ground forces and comprehensive airstrikes. I think they are shifting perhaps to a more selective use of military force to try to target senior leaders, try to hold to some degree the areas that they cleared and of course, to continue to look for intelligence with respect to where Hamas senior leadership is hiding and almost certainly surrounding those leadership or the 134 hostages, 31 of whom are Israelis, I think believe were either killed on October 7th, their bodies taken to Gaza to trade or they died in captivity.
 
So I think it is significant.
 
WHITFIELD: So, sources sharing information with CNN a little bit more about the phone call that happened between President Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and that Biden said, there are some conditions. You are going to have to do more to assist and help with the humanitarian need there.
 
And now, we are hearing that the Erez Crossing, which was part of that conversation, apparently has not been reopened, I guess, as promised at the time in which it was promised.
 
What does this say about the cooperation or lack thereof, even after a conversation involving the president and the prime minister about anyone imposing any kind of conditions on Israel as a result of the humanitarian crisis, continuing to grow, grow and worsen.
 
MILLER: You know, I think the administration has certain metrics, opening crossing points is clearly one of those metrics. Better coordination to say the least, to avoid that appalling catastrophic attack by Israeli drones against World Kitchen Central and the deaths of seven aid workers.
 
You know, in the Erez Crossing, where it was never a crossing point to facilitate the movement of large amounts of material and trucks, it was viewed as a crossing point for Palestinian aid workers, excuse me, Palestinian workers working in Israel.
 <br>[15:10:02]
 
There was also a report today that 322 trucks, I need to confirm that, went into Gaza delivering humanitarian assistance, which is the largest single number of trucks entering Gaza Strip since October 7th, so I think the administration has put Mr. Netanyahu on probation. I do believe however, the president is not looking for a major fight, and I think he has given the Israelis frankly, a test they could easily pass.
 
This should have happened months ago. The Port of Ashdod is only what -- 15 to 20 miles north of Gaza and has all of the screening facilities necessary to accept, screen humanitarian assistance, and then truck this stuff in to Northern Gaza without the need to go the extra mile to Rafah or Kerem Shalom, the other two crossing points that are open.
 
So I think the Israelis are taking this seriously, but you know, trust but verify.
 
WHITFIELD: And of course, that call between Netanyahu and Biden came after those seven aid workers were killed, and now listen to what Jose Andres who is the head of the World Central Kitchen, what he said earlier today about the Israeli strike that killed his seven colleagues.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSE ANDRES, FOUNDER, WORLD CENTRAL KITCHEN: Obviously, IDF has a lot of questions to ask themselves. What exactly are they there for? Are they there really two bring home safely all of those hostages that still are suffering? I am sure Israel has the right to defend itself, for what happened on October 7 to Israel, something that should never happen. That was an atrocity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: What are your thoughts on his challenge?
 
MILLER: I mean clearly, two things. Number one, I think it is a sad commentary to be sure that it took all of this time and the killing of seven aid workers and Jose Andres, he does extraordinary work, it is a $500 million charity, but it took all this time to get the administration's attention and to bring necessary pressure against Israel to surge, try to surge humanitarian assistance in to Gaza.
 
You have to wonder who has power and influence? Thousands of Palestinians suffer food insecurity, now, on the verge of catastrophic starvation, so, it took Jose Andres to basically get the administration's attention.
 
I think it is a sad commentary. I am glad he did, it is a sad commentary of what we consider -- who we consider important and what we consider important.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, yes.
 
MILLER: Look, the guy has obviously an enormous amount to aid a distress, so understandable, I don't agree with everything that he said, but clearly on balance, he is doing remarkable things.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Very powerful.
 
All right, Aaron David Miller, good to see you. Thanks.
 
MILLER: Thanks, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, straight ahead. Excitement is building as we count down until tomorrow's solar eclipse. How some cities in the path of totality are gearing up for this rare celestial event.
 
Plus, severe storms could threaten some people's view of the eclipse. A look at what is in store after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:02:57]
 
WHITFIELD: Okay, are now less than 124 hours aways from the most anticipated four minutes of the year.
 
Millions of Americans are flocking to cities in the Path of Totality to witness the rare moment when the sun is completely blocked by the moon and, we have complete coverage of this celestial phenomenon to sweep Canada, Mexico, and the US with correspondent Miguel Marquez in Cleveland; meteorologist, Derek Van Dam in Burlington, Vermont; and correspondent Gustavo Valdes in Mexico.
 
Good to see all of you. First up, Miguel Marquez in Cleveland where tomorrow what -- you'll be surrounded by 30,000 of your closest friends to watch this event. I see kids running behind you. What is happening today?
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it is stunning and you guys planned this live shot perfectly because the sun is exactly where it is going to be 24 hours from now. This will be in totality here in Cleveland.
 
The sky has been almost perfect today. We are expecting the weather to be pretty good tomorrow, but this is the Great Lakes Science Center. NASA has a huge presence here because this is the only NASA facility in the country, the Glenn Research Facility that will be in the Path of Totality.
 
How rare is a total eclipse for Cleveland? The last one was 1806. The next one, if you want to catch it, you're going to have to wait 420 years for an eclipse here in Cleveland.
 
So what we hope to see tomorrow is that clear sky and that sun during totality, when you can take those glasses off and watch it, you'll be able to see the plasma from the sun and those rays, it should be just a spectacular day.
 
Thirty thousand people they're expecting here today. They have several thousand. The NCAA finals just started just down the way and as soon as that started, everybody cleared out.
 
Cleveland, it is happening this week.
 
And they also have the International Film Festival this weekend, it is all about Cleveland.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh my gosh. It is all about Cleveland.
 
MARQUEZ: It is going to be great really all around.
 
WHITFIELD: Holy smokes. so everyone, if you don't have tickets to be watching the game right now, all of your friends who were around you, now, they are in front of a television set, which they were watching us, but instead they are probably watching the game.
 
MARQUEZ: Exactly.
 
WHITFIELD: Okay, all right. Well, we will check back with you, Miguel.
 
All right, Derek, you are in Vermont. Okay, you've got your glasses, your specs, you're ready and how does the wind feel with that? Were you checking out the wind with the finger there?
 
What's going to happen tomorrow? Or what's happening today first?
 
DEREK VAN DAM, AMS METEOROLOGIST: I am testing up -- yes. I am testing out my modified version of my solar eclipse glasses, which are by the way, these are welding goggles and they are certified. So, yes, I will take it, but I mean --
 
WHITFIELD: I thought someone was joking with me today when they said that.
 
VAN DAM: This one was just an equivalent because -- and I do have them and they work and you have to have a certain UV filter on them, and I've got that and I am going to need it tomorrow because we anticipate the clear skies and the perfect conditions here as well.
 
And let me tell you, Fredricka, there are very few things in this world worthy of the hype. Let's say maybe coffee, chocolate, the first season of "Ted Lasso," and a total solar eclipse and I am not the only one who is gathering the hype, because Mother Nature is about to put on its greatest spectacle four thousands and thousands of viewers here along the shores of Lake Champlain.
 
I am in Vermont in Burlington, and people are very excited, just like I am, and there is actually a name for everybody who has come to this city to come check out this total solar eclipse. They are called an umbraphile. That is people who chase shadows.
 
And I that this morning, got an airplane along with fellow friend of mine, Kathy. I have just met Kathy. She is a Philadelphia native, but you had to change your plans because of the weather. Can you talk to me a little bit about what you had to do last minute?
 
KATHY COLT, CHANGED TRAVEL PLANS AT LAST MINUTE TO SEE ECLIPSE: Yes, Right. I was planning to go to Dallas with a group of amateur photographers. I have been making that plan for about a year, but I've been following the weather and the clouds.
 
VAN DAM: CNN Weather of course.
 
COLT: Of course, that goes without saying, yes. And so I canceled my flight on Friday and I decided I would drive six hours all by myself up here to Burlington, Vermont where I've never been before, and so far it is looking really good.
 
VAN DAM: Kathy, you chose the right spot. We've been watching this area for several, several days and the forecast has really been honed in.
 
Fredricka, the big celestial dance happens tomorrow here at 3:27. and we will be ready for it along with a hundreds of thousands of other umbraphiles who will be donning glasses surely tomorrow.
 
WHITFIELD: Umbraphiles. Oh, my God, dancing umbraphiles. I like it. All right, Kathy is die-hard driving, getting there maybe she too will be doing that dance.
 
VAN DAM: Yes, she is, I know. She changed her plans.
 
WHITFIELD: I am impressed. I like it.
 
VAN DAM: Thousands of dollars, right, at a drop of a hat, but that is what that means to people here, the feeling of a total solar eclipse is visceral that really evokes a lot of emotion for people, so they are coming to see it.
 
WHITFIELD: That is really remarkable.
 
Okay, Derek Van Dam, thank you so much for giving us a nice preview.
 
VAN DAM: Okay.
 
WHITFIELD: Of course, we are going to be all over it tomorrow, watching you and others, too.
 
VAN DAM: See you tomorrow.
 
WHITFIELD: And hopefully catching that dance that you referred to.
 
All right, let's go to Mexico now and CNN's Gustavo Valdes, where the total eclipse is expected to be he visible first in North America.
 
So, Gustavo, is it highly anticipated? What is the mood like there? How are people getting ready?
 
GUSTAVO VALDES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, it is a big excitement all over Mexico. It is going to come in first in Mazatlan, that is on the Pacific Coast. The authorities there are expecting half a million people to show up to this already tourist destination.
 
Torreon is a medium-sized city, right in the center of the country where we are going to expect about 750,000 people in part because NASA is setting up equipment here and they are going to be tracking the eclipse from here. They are going to also have equipment in Mazatlan.
 
This is what the sun looks like right now. We are in a little bit overcast. We will give me you view of the skies in a second, but this is not only NASA that is doing research, there are astronomers not only from all over Mexico, but also from other countries, but also now, something new, influencers.
 
This is a group that is going to be broadcasting on TikTok and they have the same equipment that everybody else has, but something very interesting. Can we see the equipment? This is how they calibrate their telescope with the sun. It is a very simple thing, they align, let's see if we can do that -- align the holes and you see where the sun is when the sun hits that center thing. That's how they know they are in the right spot.
 
They're going to be on TikTok tomorrow...
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
VALDES: ... trying to broadcast for thousands of people. The public is going to gather outside this area. There is a group of about 38 people we are talking to. They came all the way from Spain just to see this event, and the weather, you were talking about, well, it got a little bit overcast right now.
 <br>[15:25:06]
 
In fact, there is a halo, a rainbow around the sun, but this would be good enough 23 hours from now to enjoy the eclipse. We are hoping that there is the forecast for clouds, but if it is the same thing that happened in 2017, when I was in Charleston for the eclipse back then, it was like this the whole day and in about 30 minutes before the eclipse, the skies cleared and we were able to enjoy it.
 
Hopefully, we will have the same this time.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh, the show has already begun there in Torreon, Mexico. Gustavo, that is brilliant. I love it.
 
Thank you so much.
 
Of course, we will be watching again tomorrow. Gustavo, Derek Van Dam, Miguel Marquez -- all of them in great spots and we are in a great spot right now too, because meteorologist, Elisa Raffa is going to give us an idea of what can be anticipated tomorrow.
 
Will weather cooperate with everybody because already the show has begun in parts of Mexico? Fascinating.
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN METEOROLOGIST: I love that. That's the ice crystals in the clouds showing off around the sun's rays really cool, but, yes, we are tracking clouds and a severe threat for this southern part of that Path of Totality with some better clearing as you go farther north.
 
There is that severe threat that continues to increase in our latest update today. We will have a better view up in New England, but we now have an enhanced level three out of five risk for severe weather, just outside of Dallas with the risk of damaging winds, large hail, and even a couple of tornadoes. Now, when we put this in play for the storms, it comes in a few rounds. We will have a couple of showers and storms possible early in the afternoon, just south of that path of totality, and then we will find the storms really flourish after that.
 
So later in the evening, if you're traveling out of Dallas, that is where we will have the pretty intense storm. So, you're looking at some clouds mostly cloudy conditions as Dallas hits that totality at about 1:40 in the afternoon and then the eclipse ends at three o'clock, and the storms really fire up after that.
 
Nationwide, you've got some of these showers that really kind of line that path just to the south there, so we will have some clouds in the Ohio Valley. It looks a little bit clear up in New England.
 
As far as those clouds go, here is a look. Look at all the clouds across the Southern Plains from Texas into Arkansas, some more clearing over the Ohio Valley and then you've got some clearer skies up in New England.
 
So, for a place like Indianapolis, right? We have just talked about all the clouds in Dallas and you can see them there, hour by hour, Indianapolis looks like you get a little bit more clearing. You should have some sunshine on your Path for Totality at three o'clock, so it depends where you're at.
 
WHITFIELD: This is so exciting. So no matter where you are, you're going to have a view of something.
 
RAFFA: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: And of course, we can watch you and all of our colleagues with our complete coverage tomorrow as well.
 
All right, Elisa Raffa, thank you so much.
 
Still to come, hundreds of thousands of people in Colorado are without power after intense winds swept through the state. How long the conditions are expected to last, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:32:27]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, welcome back, we are tracking dangerous weather hitting Colorado right now.
 
Fierce wind gusts, some near 100 miles per hour caused widespread power outages overnight.
 
We've got CNN meteorologist, Elisa Raffa back with us now.
 
So this is a serious system.
 
RAFFA: Yes, I mean, it has got gusts up to a hundred miles per hour, just incredible, and they were so worried about the winds with is that they preemptively turned off power for about a hundred -- for a couple of thousand people, so the power outages peaked at about 300,000. They are back down to one forty now that they're trying to recover that power for some people, but the energy company has again preemptively shut off the power.
 
Look at some of these wind gusts. White Ranch, 96 miles per hour; Buckeye, 91 mile per hour wind gusts in Colorado; Rocky Flats, 88 miles per hour. Even parts of Oklahoma has seen some gusts over 60 miles per hour.
 
We still have some high wind warnings in effect for parts of Colorado and Nebraska, and Kansas as well, but they are continuing to be dropped as we go through the day today because those wind will really start to relax.
 
So you can see, we can still find some gusts, twenty, thirty, forty miles per hour from North Platte back towards Denver, Garden City there, but they do kind of calm down, relax, and ease up the wind conditions should be better as we continue to go through the day today and into tomorrow, so that's some good news for people that are still in the dark.
 
Now, we also have some dry air in place with these incredibly gusty winds and what that does is that sparks fire conditions when you have the dry air, the dry ground, an incredibly gusty wind, so again, not great news for people in Texas that have already dealt with significant fires earlier this year.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, all right, Elisa, thank you so much.
 
Let's go to Camila Bernal. She is with us as well to give us an idea of how many people without power right now. What are they doing?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, look, trying to figure out what they can do without that power and trying to hopefully stay safe in terms of the fire. It is better to have those power outages in case there is any potential for more danger.
 
As of now, we know that in Colorado this morning, about 300,000 people were without power, but we were told that about 150,000 of them were because of the actual impacts of the wind; the rest were more preventative measures to avoid any more possibilities of danger because we are seeing these hurricane-force winds combined with those very dry conditions that Elisa was talking about, and that's what caused this fire danger in much of the western half of the Southern Central Plains.
 
In fact, about 10 million people in the Plains were under red fire warnings and what that resulted in was a number of roads being closed, some evacuation orders, thousands without power, and even two firefighters that were injured in Oklahoma in particular.
 <br>[15:35:16]
 
There were different fires spreading across six different counties, and that is the area where two of the firefighters were taken to the hospital because of burn injuries. We were also told that they brought in air resources, and so they were able to lift some of those evacuation orders early this morning and late last night.
 
We were told that no homes have been destroyed as of now. Of course, firefighters continue to work around the clock and of course, we mentioned in Colorado, those power outages and road closures, officials telling people to remain indoors and to report any fires because if any of them do start, we are told its going to be very difficult to contain them -- Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Indeed. All right, Camila Bernal, keep us posted; Elisa Raffa, thank you so much as well.
 
All right, straight ahead, Donald Trump's campaign takes in a huge fundraising haul, but is it enough to bridge the financial gap with President Biden's campaign.
 
More on this after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: A total eclipse not just of the sun, but also the heart. Millions are traveling to see tomorrow's celestial event and my next guest is no exception. He witnessed his first total solar eclipse in 2017, but has one regret that he doesn't intend to repeat.
 
Joining me right now to explain this, Tariq Malik, journalist and managing editor with space.com.
 
Tariq, I am on the edge of my seat now. What's the regret that you don't want to repeat?
 
TARIQ MALIK, JOURNALIST AND MANAGING EDITOR, SPACE.COM: Well, Fredricka, as you said, in 2017, I watched the total solar eclipse from Carbondale, Illinois with a stadium full of thousands of people. but I was by myself without my family and I really wished that I could have shared it, so it was elation, of seeing a celestial miracle and then this regret of not sharing yet with the people that I love the most.
 
So for this eclipse, I am here right now at the State University of New York in Potsdam them where my daughter is around here somewhere and I am going to share that with her for like a father-daughter eclipse.
 
WHITFIELD: Well, that is nice. So, I mean, what was her reaction? What did she think about the idea of being included this time?
 
MALIK: Well, technically, Monday, April 8th is a school day for her, so she gets out of school to get some extra-long spring break, and so she was pretty happy about that. But you know, she saw a partial eclipse in 2017 from our home in New Jersey. She is looking forward to what the real show is here, and she doesn't know really what to expect.
 
I told her, it is going to get dark. We might see some planets, but we will have to see when the time comes.
 
WHITFIELD: So how are you preparing for it? Since you've been through it before, and now you could kind of lay the groundwork for her since this will be her first time for a total eclipse, how have you been preparing? How have you geared up for it? And how have you kind of mapped out the day, and where? Where in Potsdam?
 
MALIK: Yes, so here we are at the at SUNY Potsdam, the state university, they have a whole day of public events between two and four to get people ready for the eclipse. so were looking at some eclipse-themed cooking events here in the hours ahead to participate in, as well as some other science experiments.
 
I brought a colander that I hope to project the actual eclipse as it is happening on the ground. I do have some solar eclipse glasses that are safe, binoculars where you can actually look and see the partial phase pretty well.
 
And of course my, regular eclipse glasses here.
 
WHITFIELD: Hey, that's fun.
 
MALIK: To watch everything together, and here, in Potsdam, the local coffee shop did make some totality coffee. So we are making sure that we are well stocked for a long work day of events.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, that's cool. You've got props. That's all right.
 
Okay, so the totally eclipse, I mean, that moment will really be like four minutes long, but its all the stuff leading up to it. So how have you kind of mapped out the day hour by hour?
 
MALIK: Well, one of the main things that I am hoping to do is to kind of talk to the students here who are just coming back from spring break, what are they looking forward to you?
 
Also, you know, we will be watching the partial phases in the hour or so leading up to the eclipse. We will get maybe three minutes and 14 seconds.
 
So the idea that we are hoping to do is to do our main observing with this equipment during that partial phase and then just sit there and absorb the three minutes of totality without worrying about cameras or looking through any equipment to experience it.
 
We do want to make sure because it is pretty sunny. Two, we've got our hat, we've got our sunscreen, we've got our bug spray in case we need it, and then also staying hydrated, too, because it is pretty warm here in Potsdam, and it is going to be in the 60s, we think tomorrow.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh, and then I understand what? During that moment. I mean, you'll drop about 10 degrees Fahrenheit, so you know, hopefully you have a little shawl or a little jacket just in case, too, you get a little chill for four minutes.
 
MALIK: Exactly. WHITFIELD: All right.
 
MALIK: I am really looking forward to seeing the planets, too.
 
WHITFIELD: Okay, I am sorry about that.
 
MALIK: I am looking forward to seeing Venus and Jupiter come out and possibly even a comet in the sky just for a few minutes during the day, as it is dark.
 <br>[15:45:14]
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. All right. You've got a serious day planned ahead. The stargazer indeed, sky watcher.
 
All right, Tariq Malik, enjoy the show along with your daughter and your thousands of other friends who will all be descending on Potsdam, New York as well.
 
MALIK: Great, thank, you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, join CNN for a special live coverage. Eclipse Across America starts live tomorrow at 1:00 PM Eastern Time or stream it on Max.
 
And we will be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:50:27]
 
WHITFIELD: Republican National Committee leaders are praising donors after a huge fundraising haul last night. The private event headlined by former President Donald Trump and former First Lady Melania Trump, brought home more than $50 million to the RNC's campaign coffers.
 
While a large portion of that cash will go to support Trump for president, RNC leaders say it will also be used in major efforts to scrutinize state-run elections.
 
CNN's Steve Contorno joining us live with more on all of this. Steve, so this all shows some of the GOP's biggest donors are rallying around the presumptive -- actually not presumptive, but he is the nominee, right?
 
I mean, how is the former president reacting?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Fred, it is a staggering sum of cash, $50 million. It is going to go a long way toward helping the former president's campaign make up some of that fundraising lag that they've had with President Biden's campaign and the Democratic National Committee.
 
There is about $100 million gap between the Biden campaign, the DNC and the Trump campaign and the RNC going into this month. That fundraiser is going to help them quite a bit. So obviously, they are very encouraged by the outcome of last night.
 
I do want to caveat that we are relying on the Trump campaign and the RNC for those figures. We won't be able to verify the numbers until they are reported in federal election reports.
 
However, they have been putting out statements, talking about how this will give them the funds to carry them through this election cycle, and Donald Trump on social media yesterday saying: "It is the biggest night in fundraising of all time." He went on to compare his fundraising haul to the amount of money one that President Biden brought in in his recent star-studded fundraiser with Presidents Biden and Clinton -- excuse me Clinton and Obama.
 
And then today, earlier today, RNC Chairman, recently installed by Trump, Whatley, was talking about how the RNC could potentially use this money.
 
Listen to what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL WHATLEY, REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN: We are going to spend every single dollar that we raise on two key critical core missions for the RNC, which are getting out the vote and protecting the ballot.
 
We've got to make sure that we have the rules of the road in place in every state to ensure a fair election. So we are working with state legislatures, we are working with boards of elections. We are working with secretaries of state to make sure that we get the rules of the road right.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CONTORNO: Now, Fred, one other thing that money could go towards is Trump's legal bills, obviously, that has eaten up a large chunk of his fundraising to date, and that is one of them.
 
One of the committees that has been underwriting Trump's legal bills so far, is one of the committees that was listed as a recipient of those fundraising dollars.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Steve Contorno, thanks so much.
 
Coming up, we have new insight about last week's contentious phone call between President Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as Israel's war with Hamas enters its six-month today. A live report after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:58:19]
 
WHITFIELD: In 2003, the 28th mission of the Columbia Space Shuttle took seven astronauts into space for 16 days.
 
They would never come home.
 
CNN's Ed Lavandera was a local reporter in Texas when that happened, following the stories of the debris recovery efforts and the emotional fallout in the weeks that followed. Here is his story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right, we've got a little problem on the space shuttle Columbia, it has been out of communication now for the past 12 minutes.
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Those were the first haunting words on CNN just over 21 years ago, that something was wrong with the space shuttle Columbia while CNN's live coverage intensified, I got the call to race out the door.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Good morning, and if you step outside quickly, that's a live picture of the space shuttle Columbia.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): I turned on my home television and saw that a photo journalist I used to work with at CNN affiliate WFAA in Dallas, was capturing the moment live.
 
It would soon shock the world.
 
LAVANDERA (on camera): John Pronk, we've known each other a long time.
 
JOHN PRONK, FORMER WFAA PHOTOJOURNALIST: Good to see you, my friend.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): Pronk was asked to capture something routine. A live beauty shot of the shuttle coming home, streaking across the Dallas sky.
 
PRONK: I can still remember the sky? It was real blue, it came right over downtown.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): Then the unthinkable.
 
PRONK: It's high --
 
LAVANDERA (on camera): And it's moving.
 
PRONK: And it is moving.
 
LAVANDERA (on camera): It looks like you can see pieces of the shuttle coming off.
 
PRONK: When it broke up, it wasn't like anything I'd ever seen. I mean, it was just like fingers, it looked like contrails. It was like surreal.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ed, what are you seeing?
 
LAVANDERA (via phone): Well, Myles (ph), we are driving --
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): Our CNN Dallas team phoned in reports from the road all day. It didn't take long to find Space Shuttle Columbia debris scattered all over East Texas, all seven astronauts aboard were killed.
 
LAVANDERA (via phone): We have come across the first location where we've seen what appears to be some sort of piece of debris that has been smoldering for some time now in a wide open field.
 
We're joined by Melissa Rusk (ph) who lives here in Nacogdoches.
 
MELISSA RUSK, NACOGDOCHES RESIDENT: Yes, this morning, roughly about 8:03, the walls started shaking, a thunderous noise, booming what seemed to be right in our backyard. It lasted for about two minutes.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: CNN's Ed Lavandera is joining us now from Nacogdoches.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ready Eddie?
 
LAVANDERA: Well, Wolf, if you can imagine, this is a debris field that is massive for investigators to have to comb through.
 
LAVANDERA (on camera): One of the things that I find the most haunting about my memories of that day is that there were seven inspiring astronauts that were out there somewhere, and I just find that so chilling to think about.
 
PRONK: It was probably the saddest story I ever covered. It was so unexpected.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): But when residents found an astronaut's helmet and a crew members mission patch, the nightmare of what had happened became clear.
 
LAVANDERA (on camera): You were sent out there for a beauty shot --
 
PRONK: For a beauty shot of the shuttle going over.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): That's the last thing it was. The beauty was shattered by tragedy.
 
Ed Lavandera, CNN, Dallas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: All right, we've got a little problem on the space shuttle, Columbia. It has been out of communication now for the past 12 minutes.
 
WHITFIELD: And be sure to tune in, the brand new original series, "Space Shuttle Columbia: The Final Flight" premieres tonight at 9:00 p.m. Eastern and Pacific, only on CNN.
 <br>[16:01:27]