Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Putin Welcomes BRICS Leaders in Russia; U.S. Presidential Candidates on an Advertising Blitz; Harris and Trump Works to Win Autoworkers; Blinken in Israel to Push for Diplomatic Solution; 18 Dead in Israeli Strike Near Beirut Hospital; IMF Says Global Inflation "Largely Won"; IMF Releases Economic Projections; Mike Jeffries Indicted on Sex Trafficking Charges; Young Indians Taking A "Do or Die" Journey to Live American Dream; A.I. Decoding Medical Jargon; Abridge App Helps Automating Patient Notes. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 22, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
LUCIAN READ, DIRECTOR, "CONTINUE THE MISSION":  -- the choice is pretty clear like, you know, who has really shown up and who hasn't, you know, in 
 
 the last eight years.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Lucian Read, thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
READ:  My pleasure.
 
TAPPER:  And the news continues now on CNN with Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room. I'll see you tomorrow live from Delaware County, 
 
 Pennsylvania, site of the Kamala Harris Town Hall.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  It's 1:00 a.m. in Kazan, Russia, 9:00 a.m. in Sydney, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. 
 
 And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
A warm welcome to "First Move," as always. And here's today's need to know. Putin's power, the Russian president welcoming the leaders of India, China, 
 
 and other developing nations to a summit in the City of Kazan. Spending splurge, the U.S. presidential candidates on an advertising blitz in the 
 
 battleground states with just two weeks now to go. Inflation cessation. The IMF says the global inflation fight is, quote, "largely won." But 
 
 geopolitical risks and trade tensions loom large. And doctor's dictation the startup using A.I. to decode health jargon, save physicians time and 
 
 help patients understand what's wrong. That conversation and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, a power move from Russian President Vladimir Putin, who's playing host to more than a dozen world leaders at the BRICS Summit of 
 
 Emerging Market Nations in the City of Kazan. Chinese President Xi Jinping, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as well as the heads of Turkey, Iran, 
 
 and Indonesia, helping show Putin is far from isolated on the world stage, despite the ongoing war in Ukraine.
 
This is the first meeting since the group expanded earlier this year to include nations like Egypt, the UAE, Ethiopia, and Iran. And they're now 
 
 the so-called BRICS Plus.
 
Stephen Sestanovich joins U.S. now. He's a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations for Russian and Eurasian Studies. Stephen, great to have 
 
 you with us.
 
It's more than an ego boost for Vladimir Putin. These are nations that are helping keep Russia financially afloat. Let's be honest. The problem is 
 
 they're far from united as a group of nations and that only gets worse the more that they add.
 
STEPHEN SESTANOVICH, SENIOR FELLOW, COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS AND PROFESSOR EMERITUS, COLUMBIA SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS:  
 
 That's for sure. I mean, this is, as you said, a big ego boost for Putin this week. You know, this is a guy whose official travel has been to places 
 
 like Mongolia and North Korea lately. So, having leaders of major countries show up is important, but it doesn't quite convey what it is that he would 
 
 like it to convey.
 
These are countries who don't consider themselves at war with the west. They want to improve their relations, balance their trade relations, and 
 
 economic relations a little better. That's much less than he wants.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, if you follow the money, you in many cases find the answers. And to your point, Brazil, India, South Africa, if you look at 
 
 their foreign direct investment and their trade flows, it pays to court both sides, to your point, none of these buying into the sort of anti-west 
 
 sentiment nor the anti-Russia, anti-China sentiment. But the challenge, as you presented, is one upon which what do they ultimately agree on beyond a 
 
 decision to get together every year or twice a year and have a great photo opportunity?
 
SESTANOVICH:  It's probably a little more than that. They would subscribe to Putin's rhetoric about wanting a multipolar international system in 
 
 which they have a larger say. But remember, that's not really Putin's whole program. He's engaged in a major war of aggression. And he wants not just 
 
 economic support for that, which he gets from a lot of these countries who were helping him to evade trade sanctions, he would like political support. 
 
 And the truth is, he doesn't really get that from this group.
 
CHATTERLEY:  It also doesn't solve the bigger challenges with the economy, with the deterioration in relations with the European nations in particular 
 
 too. I mean, you can court players like this and if they're buying your energy, then it helps you economically. But there are far bigger questions 
 
 arguably out there over what the future looks like and what the future for Ukraine looks like.
 
SESTANOVICH:  For sure. Putin was hoping that he could get the BRICS to sign on to something he's called BRICS Bridge, which is a way of de-dollar 
 
 rising the international economy, meaning trade would be conducted in nations own currencies. Not even the Chinese have agreed to sign up to 
 
 this.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
Now, they're saying it's something that should be discussed. That doesn't help Putin as much. It makes him -- it makes other countries who trade with 
 
 him more wary about coming under western sanctions themselves.
 
So, he's getting a bit of a photo opportunity. He's getting an agreement to put an economic plan on the agenda, but he's not getting everything he 
 
 wants.
 
CHATTERLEY:  -- get them all to agree to it or anything like it.
 
SESTANOVICH:  I'm sorry, you're actually breaking up a little bit in my connection. You know, the big problem for Putin that he faces here is 
 
 twofold. He's got a lot of economic challenges. These countries are helping him with some of that. But he's also still deeply isolated from western 
 
 countries in a way that is going to be the big, big policy problem that his successor faces, which is, you know, does Russia really accept the idea 
 
 that it's completely shut out from Europe?
 
Europe has really been the focus of Russian policy for centuries. Is Putin's legacy going to be that they've broken with that tradition?
 
CHATTERLEY:  And appropriately, these sirens are firing up behind you, Stephen, that's why I apologize to our viewers and to you for the 
 
 interference then that you didn't hear my question. Great to chat to you, sir. Thank you so much. Stephen Sestanovich there -- 
 
SESTANOVICH:  A pleasure.
 
CHATTERLEY:  -- from the Council on Foreign Relations. Likewise, sir. Thank you. Now, two weeks until the U.S. presidential election, both candidates 
 
 and their high-profile backers are laser focused, as we've been discussing, on the battleground states.
 
Kamala Harris is off the campaign trail. However, today, she has a CNN town hall Wednesday in Philadelphia, while her running mate, Tim Walz, and 
 
 Former President Barack Obama, appeared at a rally in Wisconsin. For the Republicans, Donald Trump has a campaign event in Greensboro, North 
 
 Carolina. Veep pick -- his veep pick, J. D. Vance, is in Arizona.
 
And both sides, as we've mentioned, engaging in a multimillion-dollar advertising blitz. Democrats set to outspend the Republicans in five of the 
 
 seven main swing states. Republicans have the edge in North Carolina and Pennsylvania, where they're spending around $45 million on advertising 
 
 compared to the Democrats, $42 million. Meanwhile in Michigan, Democrats have a $3 million edge, dropping a total of $26 million on ads.
 
In Michigan, both the Trump and Harris campaigns are working to win over autoworkers, among others. John King asked union members who they're going 
 
 to vote for.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  Signs of the season, Macomb County, Michigan. These suburbs just north of Detroit are a 
 
 blue collar bellwether. Joseph Knowles about to send a message. About to defy his union leadership. About to vote Republican for president for the 
 
 first time. About to vote for Donald Trump.
 
JOSEPH KNOWLES, MICHIGAN VOTER:  At this point now, I'm desperate. So, I'm - I'm willing to try anything right now to make sure that I can fulfill my 
 
 - my responsibility and to take care of my wife and kids. That's all I care about.
 
KING (voice over):  Knowles is a union auto worker, one of 1,100 just laid off by Stellantis, the parent company of Chrysler Jeep. He blames corporate 
 
 greed the most, but doesn't stop there.
 
KNOWLES:  The second blame, I will put it on Joe Biden and the Democratic Party. Why? Because of the EV mandates. I thought the Democratic Party was 
 
 for the working class people, that average joe like me. That's what I thought.
 
KING (voice over):  There are more American auto jobs now than at any point of the Trump presidency. But auto workers supporting Trump here echo his 
 
 attacks on Biden's clean energy incentives and his claim illegal immigrants are to blame for lost jobs.
 
KNOWLES:  But if you do it the wrong way, I think you should get rounded up and just thrown out. I have no problem with that because it jeopardizes my 
 
 way of providing for my kids if they take jobs.
 
KING (voice over):  Knowles waves off friends who call Trump racist. Says he doesn't believe Vice President Harris is up to the job. And he spars 
 
 with family members who say he should stay a Democrat.
 
KNOWLES:  Oh, man, I took it from my mom, from my auntie, my cousins, my sister. They came at me.
 
KING (voice over): Bill Govier is a 30 plus year union worker at Ford, and he has this side business cleaning car under bodies. When we first visited 
 
 four months ago, he was a fan of Robert Kennedy Jr. Now, he will cast his third ballot for Trump.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
WILLIAM GOVIER, MICHIGAN VOTER:  RFK joining Trump effectively, I couldn't script it any better the way I would like it to be. I love the idea of 
 
 Donald Trump being the commander in chief. I love the idea of how Donald Trump handles the nefarious characters of the world.
 
KING (voice over):  Govier believes more than half of UAW members at his Ford plant will vote Trump. He says Harris laughs too much and he can't 
 
 take her seriously.
 
GOVIER:  So, what is it, you're the incumbent who wouldn't do anything different? Or are you the underdog that wants change?
 
KING (voice over):  And he says critics take Trump to literally.
 
GOVIER:  You know, he does it for effect. I - I don't believe that Trump really believes someone's eating cats and dogs. I don't believe that he's 
 
 going to call the National Guard out and, at gunpoint, round up every migrant and force them across the border. I don't believe that for a 
 
 second.
 
KING (voice over):  Count this early vote in Wayne County for Harris. And count Tonya Rincon as a Democrat who long ago lost patience with Ford co-
 
 workers who shrug off Trump attacks on immigrants, on judges, on vote counts, on critics.
 
TONYA RINCON, MICHIGAN MEMBER AND UAW MEMBER:  There's a lot of people that they just take the crazy with Trump as it's baked in the cake and we're 
 
 just willing to ignore it. Whereas, if we heard that out of our loved ones, we'd be like, OK, grandpa, it's time to take your keys.
 
KING (voice over):  Rincon just retired from the Wayne assembly plant and is helping the UAW register and turn out voters. She says her June bet, 
 
 that her local would split 50-50 in a Trump-Biden race is still about right with Harris now atop the Democratic ticket.
 
RINCON:  But there's a little bit more enthusiasm among some of my female coworkers. A couple of my male co-workers are - are pretty ambivalent about 
 
 Harris. We may have lost a tiny margin of support because sexism is a real thing. You know, they're just like, you know, I'm not sure she can do it. I 
 
 don't think the country's ready for a female president.
 
KING (voice over):  Walter Robinson Junior says there's more energy since the switch to Harris, but also more offensive chatter on the assembly line.
 
WALTER ROBINSON JR., MICHIGAN VOTER:  They have been saying some very disparaging things about the vice president. Things about how she rose up 
 
 through the ranks and some of the things that she might have done. They only had to say that to me once before they understood they can't say - say 
 
 that to me again, you know? So, they parrot what - what he - what he puts out there.
 
KING (voice over):  Robinson has a side job as a DJ, and trusts he knows how to read the room.
 
ROBINSON:  Before I told you it was about either. Right now I would probably say it's about 60-40. I believe that it is a very good chance that 
 
 we, the Harris-Walz ticket, will come out on the winning end.
 
KING (voice over):  Time to knock on doors and lobby co-workers is running short. Labor leaders are for Harris, but the rank and file are split. 
 
 Michigan's blue collar battle, competitive to the end.
 
John King, CNN, Wayne, Michigan.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thanks to John King there. Now, America's top diplomat was in Israel on Tuesday as a new wave of airstrikes hit Lebanon. Israeli missiles 
 
 struck this building in the Beirut suburbs hours ago. This, as Lebanon reports, its deadliest day in three weeks. Officials say 63 people were 
 
 killed on Monday, and at least 18 people now are dead after a strike near a Beirut hospital. The U.N. Human Rights chief says he's appalled.
 
The IDF insists it hit a Hezbollah target. Israel also says it killed a possible successor to late Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah weeks ago in 
 
 an attack on the group's intelligence headquarters.
 
Meanwhile, the U.S. secretary of state, Antony Blinken, making a new push for a ceasefire-hostage deal in Gaza. He met with Israeli Prime Minister 
 
 Benjamin Netanyahu earlier.
 
Jeremy Diamond joins U.S. now from Tel Aviv. Jeremy, obviously the primary subject of conversation between the two of them was what can they do about 
 
 a ceasefire and what hopes there are to achieve one. But was the situation in Gaza, the suggestion now from the main agency of the United Nations in 
 
 the Jabalya Camp in Gaza that they've run out of water? Was that also discussed and the urgency of humanitarian needs there?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  No doubt about it, Julia. According to a senior U.S. official, the humanitarian situation in Gaza was 
 
 a prominent topic in these in this two and a half hour long meeting between the Israeli prime minister and the secretary of state. And it was also a 
 
 topic of conversation, as the secretary of state met with other top aides to the Israeli prime minister, as well as the Israeli defense minister.
 
And it's important to note that this visit by Secretary Blinken comes a week after the United States sent this letter to top Israeli officials, 
 
 giving them 30 days to improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza or risk losing U.S. aid military aid to Israel.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
And so, today, as the secretary of state met with Netanyahu, he took stock of some of the actions that U.S. officials believe the Israelis have 
 
 actually accomplished to improve the situation in Gaza, but they also noted the areas where much more progress still needs to be made.
 
And it's important to note that since the beginning of this month, almost no aid has actually made it into northern part of the Gaza Strip, where we 
 
 have watched hundreds of thousands of people be put under evacuation orders. Tens of thousands of those have certainly already fled Northern 
 
 Gaza. Thousands more are still trapped in their homes amid the intense fighting, and we are watching, as the situation in some hospitals there, 
 
 like Kamal Adwan Hospital, which is now running out of medical supplies, running out of blood units, the situation there is certainly growing 
 
 increasingly desperate.
 
We're also told that Blinken actually directly raised this island's plan with the Israeli prime minister. That's the supposed plan by a former 
 
 Israeli general that looks quite similar to what we're actually seeing happening in Gaza right now, effectively forcing the displacement of the 
 
 entirety of the civilian population and then laying siege to that area, targeting Hamas, of course, but accepting that any civilians who would 
 
 still be there would effectively be considered combatants.
 
And according to a senior U.S. official Prime Minister Netanyahu and his top aide, Ron Dermer, apparently directly denied that the island plan was 
 
 what was happening in Northern Gaza. U.S. officials told them that they should deny that publicly. Pointing to the public perception that is being 
 
 fueled at the moment. For now, though, we have not yet heard from those Israeli officials any new comments on that plan. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  We'll continue to watch that. Jeremy, good to have you. Thank you. Jeremy Diamond in Tel Aviv. All right. Coming up for us on "First 
 
 Move," is the global inflation fight over. The IMF says we're close, but there's always a but series. New threats are emerging. We'll discuss with 
 
 the fund's chief economist, next.
 
Plus. Prioritizing patients over paperwork. How one firm is using A.I. to save doctors hours of time writing notes, making sure patients too 
 
 understand the advice they get. We'll discuss.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And a rollercoaster ride on Wall Street and a double shot of bad news from Starbucks topping today's Money 
 
 Move. U.S. stocks finishing a volatile session, pretty much unchanged, as you can see there some. Modest gains for the tech sector.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
The NASDAQ have room higher. Though, for auto giant GM, shares rallying almost 10 percent on solid earnings and strong guidance. But an afterhours 
 
 fall from Starbucks. The coffee giant warning that fourth quarter results will be weak amid a sales stump in the United States and in China. It's 
 
 also suspending guidance too, which clearly investors not liking.
 
An Asia, Japanese investors remain cautious ahead of snap elections on Sunday. Chinese stocks, however, gaining as investors wait for new stimulus 
 
 measures to jump start growth. The Hang Seng and the Shanghai Composite higher there.
 
Now, China's capital economic challenges up for discussion at the IMF and World Bank meetings this week in Washington, D.C. The IMF predicting 
 
 Beijing will miss its 5 percent growth target this year and next due to the ongoing property market slump and cautious consumers.
 
Japan's outlook also weaker with forecast growth of three-tenths of a percent this year, though improving next. Faring better, India, the IMF 
 
 expecting a slower but solid 7 percent GDP for 2024. And seemingly, the star of the show, the United States, quote, "very close to a soft landing." 
 
 Plus, the IMF believes the global fight against inflation is, quote, "largely won." But it says the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, trade 
 
 tensions, and rising debt levels remain huge challenges, and the downside risks are growing.
 
IMF chief economist Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas joins us now. Sir, welcome to the show. The world clearly facing many challenges and we'll discuss them. 
 
 But we should mark, I think, the significance of this moment with the IMF saying that the global inflation battle is nearly won and it was achieved 
 
 without a global recession or severe financial market volatility. I think that's a major achievement.
 
PIERRE-OLIVIER GOURINCHAS, CHIEF ECONOMIST, IMF:  Yes, exactly, Julia. This is exactly right. I mean, let's remember that inflation in the third 
 
 quarter of 2022 was peaking globally at 9.4 percent. And now, we're projecting that by the end of this year will be at 3.5 percent globally, 
 
 and advanced economies and many other countries are going to be back to Central Bank targets next year, according to our projections.
 
And we've done this while global growth has been very resilient, around 3.2 percent for this year, 3.2 percent for next year. Of course, we could do 
 
 better. But there was -- we were nowhere near a global recession.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, we could always do better, I think that's always a bottom line to these discussions. The challenge is when I look at some of 
 
 your forecasts and the risks surrounding those, whether it's geopolitical risk, the chances of an oil price spike, immigration restrictions among 
 
 them, the downside risks for the next couple of years are enormous, and a lot of that, I think, is centered around politics, and in particular, U.S. 
 
 politics.
 
GOURINCHAS:  Well, I don't know if it's just centered on U.S. politics. It's true that we are seeing a lot of risks to the downside to the global 
 
 economy. Among the major ones, geopolitical tensions, whether it's the Middle East and potential increases in energy and commodity prices, or the 
 
 general rise in protectionism and protectionist policies, we've seen an explosion number of trade restrictive measures around the world.
 
This is not just the U.S. story, there are many, many trade measures are taken by many countries around the world. And when we look at that and the 
 
 uncertainty this introduces in investment decisions by corporations or consumers, then the result is that it weighs down on global activity. It 
 
 could weigh down up to 0.5 percent of output, global output by 2026. So, this is quite significant.
 
Then on top of that, we also have risks that are coming from potential tightening of financial conditions. We got a little bit of a taste of that 
 
 in August. Didn't last very long, but we have to be vigilant. And that levels that remain very elevated in some countries could be a problem going 
 
 forward. So, yes, the picture is not all good. There are some risks there and there are actually adding up.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And just to be clear it's not just about potential trade tensions and the risks, whoever wins the presidential election, let's be 
 
 clear, because I think both candidates are talking about more protectionist measures, even if perhaps the former president talking about more 
 
 aggressive tariffs being added all around the world, that the movement, the direction and the momentum is for more restrictions and potential 
 
 retaliation around the world.
 
How do we circumvent that? How do we prevent that? You seem like you're in a room that's padded and soundproof saying to the world, don't do this 
 
 because it's going to impact growth, and we're in a weaker position going into that than we were even four years ago.
 
GOURINCHAS:  Yes, and this is absolutely true. I mean, I think the importance here is to point out that this is really something that can be 
 
 hurtful to global activity. It can be a fool all around. When we do our model simulations, this is hurtful for every country in the world, if we 
 
 have an escalation of trade tensions.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
So, pointing out what the spillovers might be, how it might impact global activity and activity in each and different regions of the world. This is 
 
 actually the way to go for us to really try to induce countries not to go down that path.
 
CHATTERLEY:  One of the other risks, I think, is the Chinese outlook. Some might be surprised looking at your forecast and saying 4.8 percent growth 
 
 this year, 4.5 percent in 2025 looks ambitious. Is that based on the stimulus that's already been announced or are you hoping to see more and 
 
 particularly on the consumer side, the domestic consumer side?
 
Because again, part of the conversation that we see elsewhere in the world is that China's exporting a great deal of products and therefore, 
 
 subsidizing industry and that's hurting others. I guess one could argue that there has to be a consumer on the other side in order to buy those 
 
 exports. It's not such a simple argument. Would you like to see more, however, from China?
 
GOURINCHAS:  Yes. So, there are -- first, let's start with the numbers. We're downgrading the growth rate for China for 2024 to 4.8 percent. This 
 
 is a slight downgrade from our July forecast, and we're expecting 4.5 percent in 2025.
 
Now, these numbers already include some of the policy changes that were announced by the Chinese authorities at the end of September, especially 
 
 the ones from the People's Bank of China. They do not include yet the ones that have been announced since then by the Ministry of Finance. The fiscal 
 
 measures. We're still assessing what our expensive dues will be and how they will impact the economy.
 
So, they are not part of our forecast projection. So, you might say from that perspective, there is maybe a little bit of upside risk for the 
 
 Chinese economy. If these measures are significant, but this is in a context in which the latest numbers for the Chinese economy have been 
 
 disappointing. So, I would say this is the overall tension here.
 
Now, turning to the second part of your question. You know, the important thing to keep in mind here is that some of the trade surpluses we're seeing 
 
 coming from China, these excessive exports over their imports, it's really coming from the weak macroeconomic environment, much more so in our 
 
 assessment than it comes from direct policies directed at specific sectors to try to stimulate production and exports in, let's say, electric vehicles 
 
 or batteries, et cetera.
 
The issue is much broader. It's much more a macroeconomic issue than a sectoral issue. And it's really related to the weakness of the Chinese 
 
 economy overall.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. The facts don't help you win presidential elections, however. But we'll continue to repeat them. Sir, great to have you on. 
 
 Thank you so much. Great to chat to you as always, the chief economist there of the IMF. Thank you.
 
All right. And time now for today's Weather Move. The Philippines is being inundated with rain ahead of a tropical storm. The nation's weather agency 
 
 predicting it will pass just north of Manila and telling residents to prepare for high winds and storm surge.
 
Chad Myers joins us now from the CNN weather center. Chad, tell us more. Raincoats on and umbrellas up.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Absolutely, especially for the people who are like Bakio in Manila, for sure. Places have already picked up a half a 
 
 meter of rain, and it hasn't even made landfall yet. So, we have another 24 hours of rainfall to go.
 
Officially, the name is Trami. But in the Philippines, they call it Christine. Here's the storm itself at a half a meter of rainfall in more 
 
 than one place. Storm still well offshore, but going to move onshore later on tonight into tomorrow morning.
 
It isn't going to be a wind maker. It is going to be a rain event. The highest gusts will likely be 100 kilometers per hour, not knocking things 
 
 down. But when you pick up the potential for a one-meter rainfall on top of a hill in the island of Luzon, you absolutely have the potential to have 
 
 significant flooding here with more rainfall to come. This is on top of what places have already received. And there you see some spots at a half a 
 
 meter, not that far from Bakio.
 
So, there's the rainfall moving off toward the west, moving off toward Haikou, but we're not going to see even the storm strengthened that much. 
 
 This is going to be a signal one or two wind event where this is going to be a flash flood for sure.
 
Now, the Westpac never really shuts off. We talk about the Atlantic kind of the hurricane season being over November 30th. The Westpac is warm enough 
 
 pretty much all year long to stay active. And certainly, the Indian Ocean. Here's a very healthy-looking storm that will move on up into Northeastern 
 
 India over the next couple of days.
 
It'll be a compact storm. There may be winds in here, maybe 120, 150, somewhere in there. We're not even getting any help yet from the weather 
 
 service because this is just really getting going. But if you pick up another 150 to 250 millimeters of rain, that will be the story. Will this 
 
 turn into a bigger cyclone wind event? We don't just know yet, but we'll have to see. Definitely keep an eye on this one if you're in the area.
 
CHATTERLEY:  We certainly will. And we know you will, which is the important point.
 
MYERS:  Absolutely.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Chad, great to have you with us. Thank you. Chad Myers there. All right. More "First Move" after the break. And I'll get my teeth in. 
 
 We'll see you after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. A court has ordered former New York City 
 
 Mayor Rudy Giuliani to turn over his valuables to two former Georgia election workers. Giuliani had falsely accused them of helping rig the 2020 
 
 election results. They sued for defamation and won a $150 million judgment. Giuliani must now give them his Manhattan penthouse, wristwatches and 
 
 sports memorabilia.
 
An E. Coli outbreak in the United States has been linked to McDonald's quarter pounder hamburgers. Nearly 50 people got sick and one person has 
 
 lost their life according to CDC officials. McDonald's has stopped using some of the ingredients used for quarter pounders in several states. Most 
 
 of the illnesses are in Colorado and Nebraska, but officials say the outbreak could be more widespread.
 
Former CEO of Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Mike Jeffries, has been arrested on sex trafficking charges. It's alleged Jeffries and two others exploited young 
 
 male models over many years during sex themed parties that involved drugs, alcohol, and Viagra. He's been released on a $10 million bond. Brynn 
 
 Gingras has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Oozing sex and style in their edgy and sometimes criticized advertising, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch soared 
 
 in popularity in the early 2000s. Michael Jeffries, who led the company at that time, now federally charged in a sex trafficking and prostitution 
 
 scheme. Prosecutors accusing the former CEO of targeting men, some aspiring models who wanted to work for the brand.
 
BERON PEACE, U.S. ATTORNEY FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK:  The potential of an opportunity at Abercrombie to be in the ad or things like 
 
 that were one of some of the carrots that I think people perceived as what they would achieve by participating in this activity.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
GINGRAS (voice-over):  The 16-count indictment alleges 80-year-old Jeffries, his romantic partner Matthew Smith, and a third man, James 
 
 Jacobson, worked together to recruit dozens of men in the U.S. and abroad, often paying them to attend sex events.
 
PEACE:  Jeffrey Smith and Jacobson use force, fraud, and coercion to traffic those men for their own sexual gratification.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over):  The victims were physically groomed, forced to sign nondisclosure agreements and then pressured to drink, take drugs like 
 
 muscle relaxers and Viagra before performing sexual acts on Jeffreys and Smith, the indictment reads.
 
PEACE:  We think we have a lot of evidence that corroborates the charges in this case.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  He was viewed as a form of genius.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over):  Allegations like those detailed in the charges began bubbling a year ago, following the release of the BBC documentary, "The 
 
 Dark Side of Cool."
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  What happened to me changed my life, and not for the better.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over):  What soon followed, a civil lawsuit filed by dozens of men who say they were preyed upon by Jeffries and an investigation which 
 
 led to the new charges. At the time, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, under new leadership, called the claims appalling and disgusting and were already 
 
 dealing with another scandal.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Abercrombie &amp; Fitch said, we go after the cool kids.
 
GINGRAS (voice-over):  After this Netflix documentary accused the brand of rampant racism and discrimination in its hiring process, also while 
 
 Jeffries was at the helm. In a statement to CNN, Jeffries and Smith's attorney saying they will respond to the new allegations in the courtroom.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And to India now, and a worrying new trend where young and educated people are hiring smugglers to help them enter the United States. 
 
 And with immigration playing a key role in the U.S. presidential election, this could strain ties between the two nations. Ivan Watson has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Hiking through jungles and crossing rivers. A video vlogger from India showing his 
 
 trip through Central America to the U.S.-Mexico border.
 
Nearly 100,000 Indians crossed the border illegally into the U.S. last year, a journey many Indians call the Donkey Way.
 
ANKIT CHAUDHARY, LAW STUDENT:  Donkey Way is an illegal route which is not allowed by the USA government. It's a route which is going through many of 
 
 the countries and then we will jump the wall of USA.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Ankit Chaudhary is a 24-year-old law student who dreams of migrating to the U.S. to escape joblessness in India.
 
CHAUDHARY:  I have no other option due to unemployment.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  And he's not the only young Indian desperate to leave. Many Indian cities have districts like this.
 
WATSON:  This is one of the consequences of India's high youth unemployment. Entire neighborhoods of businesses dedicated to helping young 
 
 Indians move overseas.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  Amid consultants who help Indians get visas to study abroad, Chaudhary says you can also find smugglers who specialize in the 
 
 donkey route.
 
WATSON:  We can go here and find someone and pay money to be smuggled to the U.S. here.
 
CHAUDHARY:  Yes. Yes. They will smuggle the person illegally in U.S.
 
WATSON:  How many people have you sent on this donkey route journey to the U.S.?
 
WATSON (voice-over):  At least 150 to 200 people, he says. For around $48,000, this agent will fly you to El Salvador and smuggle you over land 
 
 to the U.S.-Mexico border. He shows me this video of some of his clients squeezing through the border fence.
 
WATSON:  These are your customers?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Two of them.
 
WATSON (voice-over):  The number of Indian migrants crossing the border into the U.S. surged over the last five years. But two Indian smuggling 
 
 agents now tell CNN they've all but stopped sending migrants to the U.S. in the last couple of months after a Biden administration executive order 
 
 cracked down on asylum applications.
 
In September, Customs and Border Protection reported the lowest number of migrants crossing the U.S.-Mexican border since 2020.
 
That's little comfort to Rajeev Kumar. Last year, his brother left the family farm for the donkey way to the U.S. Kumar says Indian authorities 
 
 returned Makeet's body nearly five months later after he was shot dead by criminals on a river bank on the El Salvador-Guatemala border.
 
The family's lone surviving son now farms these fields alone.
 
RAJEEV KUMAR, MAKEET'S BROTHER (through translator):  People here know they will die from unemployment, so they think it is better to go and take the 
 
 risk. For people here, it has become do or die.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
WATSON (voice-over):  A vicious cycle of poverty and illegal migration that's emptying out communities in this part of India.
 
Ivan Watson, CNN, in Haryana State, India.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thanks to Ivan Watson there. Now, coming up for us, doctors say they're overwhelmed with administrative work. Now, one tech company is 
 
 trying to make visits easier for both patients and doctors. We'll explain, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." Now, many of U.S. have gone to see a doctor and walked away wishing we'd taken notes. I know I have. It's 
 
 a problem for patients. It's also an enormous issue for doctors who spend hours writing out patient records when they could be treating more people. 
 
 It's one of the key causes behind doctor burnout, according to the U.S. surgeon general.
 
Well, now tech firm Abridge is aiming to use A.I. to help automate note taking. Their system works by recording visits with an app, then 
 
 summarizing them in both patient and doctor friendly versions. Their clients include major U.S. hospitals, such as the Mayo Clinic, and NVIDIA 
 
 is a major collaborator.
 
We're joined now by Abridge co-founder and CEO Dr. Shiv Rao. Dr. Rao, fantastic to have you on the show. I have to be honest, I've done a bit of 
 
 a spot check with doctors that I know that are using the system. And I have to admit, I've got rave reviews. Explain the vision behind this and how 
 
 widely it's now being utilized.
 
DR. SHIV RAO, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, ABRIDGE:  Thank you so much. It's such a privilege to have this time with you. You know, everything that we're 
 
 building is really focused on unburdening clinicians from clerical work so that they can focus more fully on caring for their patients.
 
And it's really this idea that healthcare delivery is about people. Professionals on one side of the room, patients on the other. And you think 
 
 about it, what are they doing? They're having conversations. Dialogues drive so much in care delivery. Their upstream of clinical documentation 
 
 that we have to do, for example.
 
And you already mentioned, it's documentation that can help patients better understand and follow through as much as it is about unburdening clinicians 
 
 from clerical work that's important not just for communication with other doctors, but also, you know billing systems, for example, revenue cycle.
 
CHATTERLEY:  How have you trained the model, Dr. Rao? Because the first thing I thought when I read this was it sounds great, but what about 
 
 hallucinations that we've all read about where it sort of makes up things or adds things? Because if we're talking about clinicians and patients, 
 
 that's a big no, no. How have you done this?
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
DR. RAO:  Yes, it's such a great question. I think what's different about Abridge, what's different about our approach, and we started this company 
 
 in 2018. So, it's been a minute. For us, since we started, we had this idea that there needs to be science at the center of everything that we do. We 
 
 need to be able to establish trust. Trust is the most important currency in health care.
 
And from a scientific perspective, it means being able to generate notes that are auditable, for example, where you can highlight any words, 
 
 sentence, fragment, or entire paragraph and see where that evidence came from.
 
You know, you wouldn't believe it, I'm a practicing cardiologist, when I see patients, sometimes I'll review these notes that Abridge has generated, 
 
 and I might see a snippet about something that they mentioned that I don't remember. And then all of a sudden, I'll start to question the technology. 
 
 Could this be, as you said, maybe a hallucination. And then, I'll highlight and see that it actually happened. They said it, and I just didn't hear. 
 
 And I'm convinced that clinicians might not hear -- or I should say, remember 10, maybe even 20 percent of what a patient might told them.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I was about to say, I bet that percentage point is way higher for the patients as well. As I mentioned in the introduction, walk away 
 
 thinking what exactly was I told there and what do I have to do? And I wish I'd taken notes.
 
I know the system right now, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, supports 14 languages as well, which is incredible. How does it interact with 
 
 hospital systems? I think Epic is the system that U.S. hospitals use, for example, because it's got to be integrated into that surely to be able to 
 
 make it sort of multifunctional and easy for doctors to use wherever they are.
 
DR. RAO:  Yes, you're absolutely right. We could actually support well over 30 languages at this point in time. In fact, today in California, there 
 
 will probably be thousands of conversations using Abridge in Vietnamese, Mandarin, and Spanish. Today, in Boston, there's folks speaking in Haitian, 
 
 Creole, and Brazilian, Portuguese. Today, in Indiana, there's doctors speaking in Punjabi, to their truck driver patient population.
 
And we can meet the patient where they are. We can help the clinician, whether they have an interpreter in the room or not, we're going to be able 
 
 to create that note. And to your point, we're going to do all of that inside the medical record.
 
You mentioned Epic. We have an incredible privilege of being a co- development partner with Epic. They call it their Workshop Program. And that's where we're at, whiteboards, together, figuring out how we can push 
 
 the boundaries for what's possible with responsible A.I. in healthcare. And so, this is like a really great example of it.
 
CHATTERLEY:  What does it cost?
 
DR. RAO:  Yes, I'd say we can contract in multiple ways. One way we can contract is basically on a clinician per year basis. And another way that's 
 
 frankly much more exciting for us is at an enterprise level. At an enterprise level, you think about all the doctors across all the different 
 
 specialties and all the different settings, inpatient, urgent care, emergency departments, and of course, outpatient clinics, telemedicine, 
 
 it's more of a model where we want to make sure that we're not getting in the way of clinicians being able to benefit.
 
And that's where -- you mentioned NVIDIA, that's where we can get really creative. We can start to sort of predict, you know, how much compute we're 
 
 going to need. How many GPUs we're going to need to be able to run these models that we've been able to fine tune all these bespoke models, for 
 
 example, that help us audit the technology to minimize those issues that you brought up before. It helps us sort of predict things. And obviously, 
 
 we make that -- we make this technology more approachable for these large health systems that way as well.
 
CHATTERLEY:  You didn't tell me how much it costs, and I know it probably depends on who you're negotiating with, but is this going to be accessible 
 
 to every hospital, whether they take insurance or not in the United States? I guess that's the big question. And the other one for me would be data 
 
 privacy. How do you protect data when it's on an app? Someone's using their phone. That for me is probably a big risk surrounding this product. How do 
 
 you mitigate that?
 
DR. RAO:  Yes, from an accessibility perspective, in terms of, like, the technology and cost, this is technology that is for everyone. And we've 
 
 been able to scale across the country over the last couple of years. This is something that really, we think, should be baked into the 
 
 infrastructure, should be just turned on inside -- you know, inside the medical record. And so, that I think is a very, very key aspect of this.
 
So, the technology also, just to give you a sense of how it scales, you know, when you think about these large health systems and where the details 
 
 become very important is that they've got any number of different specialties, be cardiologists like me, gastroenterologist, internist, or 
 
 surgeons, and they could be in different settings, like we mentioned before, different spoken languages. And then, there's all the different 
 
 ways they need to get this information back into the medical record.
 
And part of the challenge that we've demonstrated that we're up to is that we can kind of integrate. We can integrate into all those different 
 
 discrete fields in a way that makes sense because this really needs to feel seamless for the clinician who is using it.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, one of my very close friends is a gastroenterologist, and I haven't spoken to her about this yet, but actually, I can't wait to, not 
 
 that I'm doing a product placement, but getting feedback is always good when we have these conversations.
 
DR. RAO:  100 percent, we really love it, we really love it.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, we'll see. Dr. Rao, fantastic to chat to you, sir. Thank you so much. We'll keep in touch. The founder and CEO of Abridge there.
 
DR. RAO:  Thank you so much.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you. All right. Next, aiming to do, what, no father son duo has done before. How LeBron and Bronny James could be on the verge of 
 
 sporting history. Next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  In today's Sports Move, they say, like father, like son, and it doesn't get better than this. Basketball icon LeBron James about to make 
 
 history with his son, Bronny, as the first father son duo to play together in a regular season game of the NBA. Their team, the Lakers, take on the 
 
 Minnesota Timberwolves in the coming hours. But for the family, the moment is about so much more, as Andy Scholes reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRONNY JAMES, LOS ANGELES LAKERS GUARD:  I'm always thinking about, you know, that's my dad, because that's literally my dad.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR (voice-over):  Bronny James and his world- famous dad making history this season. And it's been 20 years in the making. LeBron's legendary career has been defined not only by his 
 
 basketball greatness, but also by his unwavering dedication to being a father. He's had his children, Bronny, Bryce, and Zhuri by his side during 
 
 his NBA journey.
 
And in a 2014 CNN interview, LeBron said his motivation to be a great father comes from his dad not being there for him.
 
LEBRON JAMES, LOS ANGELES LAKERS FORWARD:  My whole life growing up, I think I just kind of always said, why me? You know, why me? Why wasn't -- 
 
 Why didn't my dad want to be around? I feel like I'm a pretty cool kid. I'm a good kid. Why wouldn't you want to be around for me? And then, as I got 
 
 older and older and kind of have my own family, I started to think, the reason he wasn't there is the reason why I became so strong mentally. So, 
 
 loving to my mother and I am who I am today because he wasn't there, because I use it as motivation.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over):  LeBron and his wife Savannah had Bronny when he was just 19 years old in his second NBA season. And when Bronny started 
 
 becoming a star in high school at Sierra Canyon, LeBron and Bronny playing together became more than a dream. But a frightening summer day in 2023 
 
 nearly derailed it all.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Get an ambulance here now.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  OK. All right, sir. All right, sir. I'm going to send help there.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over):  Bronny went into cardiac arrest during a college practice and was rushed to the hospital. He would recover, and after 
 
 treatment was cleared to return to the court just over four months later. Bronny would go on to play for one season at USC, and then he declared for 
 
 the NBA draft where the Los Angeles Lakers would select him with the 55th pick in the second round.
 
L. JAMES:  I know I'm super happy for him. Our family is super proud of him.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over):  Very proud, but LeBron says they will need to keep it professional on the court.
 
L. JAMES:  We cannot be running down the court, and he'd be like, Dad, (INAUDIBLE). Dad, I'm open. Dad, come one.
 
B. JAMES:  It's probably going to be like Bron -- Bron will be the easiest that I'd be -- 
 
L. JAMES:  The easiest.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
SCHOLES (voice-over):  LeBron and Bronny shared the court in the preseason a moment that LeBron called surreal. And it's even more than that. LeBron 
 
 and Bronny on the same court is the culmination of LeBron's legacy, symbolizing the merging of a generational talent with the joy and pride of 
 
 being a dad.
 
L. JAMES:  For a father, I mean, it means everything. I mean, for someone who didn't have a dad, you know, growing up, to be able to have that 
 
 influence on your kids and have the influence on your son, to be able to have moments with your son, and then, ultimately, you know, to be able to 
 
 work with your son, I think that's one of the greatest things that a father could ever hope for or wish for. So, it's pretty cool.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  That's pretty cool. And finally, on "First Move," from one global superstar to another, this one though, prefers marmalade. Despite 
 
 being one of Britain's most favorite bears, beloved children's icon Paddington has only now been made a U.K. citizen. Paddington, of course, 
 
 came to Britain from Peru in 1958, arriving at London's Paddington Station, hence the name. More than six decades on, the British government giving him 
 
 an official U.K. passport ahead of the new movie "Paddington in Peru." He might have preferred an Irish one. It would have got him further quicker. 
 
 Naughty.
 
That's just about wraps up the show. See you tomorrow from Washington, D.C.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END