Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Israel Pounds Southern Beirut as Security Cabinet Prepares for Ceasefire Vote; Landmark U.N. Resolution Could Be Framework for Deal; U.S. Special Counsel Drops Federal Cases against Trump; Kremlin Hopes Trump Will Benefit Russia over Ukraine; Thousands Demand Release of Imran Khan; Blinken, Arab Officials Talk Middle East Crisis at G7; Israeli Cabinet Meeting over Hezbollah Ceasefire Deal Delayed; Billionaire Hedge Fund Manager Picked to Lead Treasury; Record Number of Travelers for U.S. Holiday. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired November 26, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  Live from CNN Abu Dhabi, this is CONNECT THE WORLD with Becky Anderson. 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST (voice-over):  Welcome to our second hour of the show. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, where the time is 7:00 in the 
 
 evening. It is 5 pm in Beirut and in Tel Aviv, two cities we have our eyes on this hour as a ceasefire deal between Hezbollah, Lebanon and Israel may 
 
 be within grasp.
 
That deal being hashed out this afternoon by Israel's security cabinet and a vote on that is expected soon. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  This is what it aims to stop. Israel pounding Hezbollah targets in Beirut's southern suburbs right up until the meeting, 
 
 with the largest simultaneous strikes so far. If passed, the deal would pause the fighting on both sides for 60 days with the hope that it could be 
 
 the framework for a lasting ceasefire. 
 
And to be quite clear, Hezbollah firing rockets, missiles into Israel; over the weekend significant  military warfare on both sides of this being used. 
 
 So the war between Israel and Hezbollah, which has claimed more than 3,000 lives, is at a critical juncture for the very latest. Let's get you back to 
 
 CNN's Nic Robertson in Jerusalem. 
 
Nic, the security cabinet meeting, as we understand it, this is a U.S.- France brokered deal. It's been accepted to all intents and purposes in Lebanon and by Hezbollah. So this is about whether Israel is prepared to 
 
 sign up for this caveat. 
 
We've been here before and certainly we've been -- we felt up until the wire on deals with Gaza. So we have to remind ourselves, no deal until a 
 
 deal is signed at this point. Let's talk about how this is being received in Israel as we await confirmation of whether this truce is in fact going 
 
 to be in play. 
 
As I understand it, there's been some considerable if not blistering criticism of Netanyahu, as this is thrashed out, by many in Israel, not 
 
 least in the north of Israel. Explain, if you will. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN SENIOR DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Yes, I was talking last night, Becky, with a businessman who lives right up close to the border, is 
 
 less than a mile from the border. 
 
His family evacuated. He's stayed there. He's been part of the sort of security. He's been trying to keep the business and the investment in the 
 
 area going. That has been impossible. 
 
You know, I've kept track with him, been in touch with him now for over a year. And I spoke to him last night and he sounded really disconsolate, 
 
 really unhappy with the situation. 
 
He said that what the prime minister was on the verge of doing was surrender. He said this takes us back to 2006. It's no better than it was. 
 
You know, when I first met him, about a year ago now, he pointed out to me, he said, look, you've got the U.N. over the border there. You've got 
 
 commitments from international countries. 
 
Have them come here, he said. Have these French and American diplomats -- he was saying this a year ago -- come here and take a look at what's 
 
 actually happening. Hezbollah, right in the buildings, on the border, firing rockets into our communities. 
 
He said they don't seem to understand that what they agree on paper doesn't become the reality on the ground. So what he was saying to me last night 
 
 was we're going back to that situation. 
 
And I said, well, hey, you know, Hezbollah has been pushed out. Surely it will be quieter. 
 
And he said, look, maybe for a short period it will be quieter. But he said, I've got no confidence in the government, no confidence in the U.N. 
 
 no confidence in the Lebanese army, no confidence in the international community, that, after a period of time, that Hezbollah will come back 
 
 close to the border and begin testing Israel again. 
 
And he said, we'll be right in the front line. This is a guy who was bringing in tens of millions of dollars in high tech investment, right at 
 
 the border, helping build the community there. 
 
So it's not just his family life at stake but it's what he believes is the business community's future at stake, because you can't attract an 
 
 investment like that if you -- if you have an unstable environment, which has now been proven to be incredibly unstable. 
 
So yes -- and he told me that he was talking to a lot of the mayors across the northern towns there. They're absolutely seething, very bitter about 
 
 what's happening at the moment. 
 
ANDERSON:  This is based around what is known as U.N. resolution 1701. Nic, thank you. This isn't the first time that Israel and Hezbollah, of course, 
 
 have been encouraged to achieve stability along the Lebanese border as we've been discussing. 
 
The deal would implement a nearly 20 year old United Nations resolution.
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
CNN's Salma Abdelaziz takes a closer look at that for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has approved in principle an emerging ceasefire deal. That's 
 
 according to sources familiar with the matter. 
 
The U.S. backed proposal calls for a 60 day cessation of hostilities in Lebanon. 
 
But did you know there's already a peace agreement between Israel and Hezbollah?
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice-over):  It's called Resolution 1701 and it dates back to 2006 originally resolving the then war between Israel and Hezbollah. Now 
 
 diplomats say that reviving this nearly two decade old deal could end the fighting in Lebanon today. 
 
So what are the key principles of 1701?
 
First, that all armed groups in Lebanon must disarm. 
 
Second, no foreign forces are allowed into Lebanon without the government of Lebanon's consent. 
 
And finally, a buffer zone was established that would be manned by up to 15,000 U.N. peacekeepers to ensure the peace. 
 
Fast forward and you have a Hezbollah that is the dominant political and paramilitary force in Lebanon. As for foreign forces, they are indeed on 
 
 the ground. Israel invaded Lebanon on October 1st. 
 
And finally those U.N. peacekeepers, the many thousands on the ground, they are caught in the crossfire. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Salma Abdelaziz. 
 
Let's bring in Maha Yahya now, who is the director of the Carnegie Middle East Center. 
 
It's always good to have you. Thank you so much for joining us. 
 
Let's just underscore once again that -- or caveat -- that we don't know that, you know, the Israeli security cabinet is going to vote to approve 
 
 this truce. It's a 60 day truce along the lines of 1701. 
 
And as I understand it, we're just hearing unconfirmed reports there -- and if we get a result on this tonight, it is likely to be about 5-6 hours from 
 
 now. 
 
So your thoughts on the deal that's on the table, first and foremost, given the details that you have?  
 
MAHA YAHYA, DIRECTOR, MALCOLM H. KERR CARNEGIE MIDDLE EAST CENTER:  Good morning, Becky. It's good to be with you. 
 
Just very quickly, I mean, as your reporter mentioned, this is a truce that will last 60 days. During 60 days certain actions have to be taken by 
 
 Hezbollah, by the Lebanese government and by Israel. 
 
A, the bombing has to stop on both sides but particularly Israeli overflights. Hezbollah is meant to move away from the border zone. The 
 
 Lebanese army, the minister of foreign affairs this morning, the Lebanese minister of foreign affairs, said that there would be a surge of 5,000 
 
 Lebanese troops to the border area. 
 
They'll be coordinating with UNIFIL. There is an international group of observers who will be monitoring all of this, including the U.S. France and 
 
 others. So there are things in place that will ensure that this will at least what is agreed upon over would be implemented over the next 60 days. 
 
The question is, what happens in 60 days, in two months?
 
Most likely, if this holds, if this truce holds without any major infractions, then we will hopefully then see president Trump sign on to a 
 
 more lasting peace deal or ceasefire deal. 
 
ANDERSON:  OK, let's do some hypotheticals here, because, you know, this -- I'm sure for most people in Lebanon, this truce cannot come quickly enough. 
 
 Over 3,000 (ph) dead. So many of the population now displaced, so many injured. 
 
We've seen attacks, targeted attacks by Israel on what they say are Hezbollah targets right up into the wire here. We've been reporting on, you 
 
 know significant attacks on southern Beirut just in the past hour or so. 
 
You wrote a really good piece for "Foreign Affairs" after about what they, you know, the day after might look like. So let's just go through some of 
 
 those key points, if you will, because Lebanon is a mess at this point. 
 
Does this in any way sort out the mess that is Lebanon today?
 
YAHYA:  No, not at all. 
 
And I think the challenges will come once the drums of war fall silent, as they say, because, you know, yes, 4,000, almost 4000 people have been 
 
 killed, 15,000 injured; 100,000 housing units have been destroyed. 
 
The World Bank estimates losses at $8.5 billion. The economy has been completely decimated, particularly in southern Lebanon, in the Bekaa and 
 
 the southern suburbs are totally flattened. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
The 1.2 million to 1.4 million Lebanese, who have been displaced, the likelihood of a big portion of them being unable to go back home, at least 
 
 upward of 100 -- sorry -- of 0.5 million is pretty low because their homes are completely gone. 
 
There are 37 villages along the border zone that have been completely demolished and dynamited by the Israeli forces. 
 
So the question here is, what happens internally?
 
What we're hoping for is that this cease-fire deal will unlock quite quickly. The election of a president will unlock the formation of a 
 
 government that is able to take charge of putting together a plan for the rebuilding and reconstruction, the return of the displaced, what happens in 
 
 the short, medium and long term. 
 
But that will also have a, you know, focus on state building. And I think - - plus there needs to be obviously a national dialogue. 
 
ANDERSON:  I mean, you make the very good point that Hezbollah has long been a dominant political and military force in Lebanon. 
 
It has resisted disarmament despite international pressure. This ceasefire deal over the next 60 days, which could lead to something more permanent, 
 
 is not based around what's known as U.N. resolution 1559. 
 
So what it effectively allows is Hezbollah to push north if they agree to do so, still within Lebanon, moving north of the Litani. 
 
And there are those in Lebanon -- and I speak to those and somebody has written to me tonight, saying, will this just be used against the other 
 
 Lebanese and take the Lebanese state as hostage again?
 
That's one view from one viewer who is Lebanese, who doesn't want to see Hezbollah pushed back into Lebanon and taking what they describe as a state 
 
 of Lebanon hostage. Again, we need 1559, this viewer says, not 1701. 
 
What do you make of that that view?
 
YAHYA:  Well, I think your viewer and many friends in Lebanon overlook the article in Resolution 1701 that actually references not only 1509 but 1608. 
 
 These are two U.N. resolutions. 
 
The 1608 talks about the management of the border between Syria and Lebanon. These are -- 1701 is based on both of those as well as on the Taif 
 
 agreement, which ended Lebanon's civil war, so de facto 1559 is included. 
 
And the idea is, I mean, today, you cannot disarm Hezbollah by force. It has to be part of a political process internally within the country. And 
 
 this is why I make the point that there is a desperate need today for an inclusive dialogue that brings everyone into the fold. It's the only way 
 
 forward for Lebanon as Lebanon. 
 
And as part of this dialogue, one looks then at the disarmament of all non- state actors, anybody who has, you know, any arms outside of the state. There is -- there are already precedents for some of this discussion. 
 
 There's the Baghdad declaration. 
 
So there are precedents where we start talking about what a national defense strategy would look like. The army today in Lebanon needs a lot of 
 
 support. They've been doing a remarkable job but they need significant support right now. 
 
Frankly, they're more of a National Guard. They've been there because of the collapse in the security services. They've been carrying out far more 
 
 than they should have been. They are dealing with internal security as well as external security. So they need a lot of support to be able to take on 
 
 the duty of protecting Lebanon as the Lebanese army. 
 
But there is a path forward. There is a way there. And we need to turn this catastrophe that Lebanon is facing into an opportunity. The country has 
 
 tremendous talent. It has tremendous potential. There's a need to rethink its economic model. 
 
I mean, these are things that so many people have been working on, these things, including myself and others, in terms of how one can push forward 
 
 on a new vision for Lebanon and what that would mean. 
 
ANDERSON:  Meantime, Israel's goal, it seems -- and you make this point, shifting to disrupting Iran's regional influence. We've seen that with 
 
 Hezbollah and some concern that the weakened group will shift back under Iran's more direct influence. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
Now if that were to be the case, because we've seen somewhat of a decoupling between Iran and Hezbollah. Not suggesting that that is a 
 
 strategic decoupling but a kind of, you know, goal by goal decoupling over the past few months. 
 
If Hezbollah's sort of, you know, remaining infrastructure -- and let's be quite clear, it does remain -- shifts back under Iran's control, how 
 
 concerned are you about that?
 
Because we know where Israel's ultimate focus is at this point. It is all about, you know, destroying Iran. 
 
YAHYA:  No, I am very concerned. And frankly the decision making today is not in Lebanon. With Hassan Nasrallah you had a local interlocutor that the 
 
 Iranians trusted. Today they are dealing with the Lebanon situation directly. 
 
There was even, in New York, a piece in "The New York Times" this morning, that says, you know Khamenei himself gave the green light to a ceasefire. 
 
 So they are directly involved without any kind of interlocutor at this point in running Lebanese -- in running Hezbollah in Lebanon. 
 
And they have a tremendous say in terms of what happens next, both internally but also vis-a-vis Israel. 
 
And I think this is the question here, becomes is what kind of rapprochement or not rapprochement?
 
What kind of deal is going to be struck between the Americans and Iran, whether, you know, back-channel conversations? 
 
What will the Trump administration bring to the table?
 
Are we going back to a maximum pressure campaign or are we looking at something different?
 
And I think this is where there are different points of view within the American -- within Trump's, president Trump's own decision makers or 
 
 policymakers, his own internal kitchen, as they say in Arabic, where some feel that they haven't gone far enough. 
 
Others feel that there needs to be a mitigated approach to Iran and to its nuclear weapons. So I think we're in a bind today. It really depends on 
 
 what happens between Israel, the U.S. and Iran down the road. And that will have a tremendous impact on Lebanon. 
 
I mean, we're also expecting --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
YAHYA:  -- frankly --
 
ANDERSON:  -- very much indeed for what is a -- I'm going to have to leave it there because we've got to pick up and get through to a break. 
 
But it's good to have you. Thank you so much. 
 
U.S. special counsel Jack Smith dropping the two federal prosecutions that he was bringing against Donald Trump. That means the January the 6th 
 
 election subversion case and the classified documents case both over, at least for now. 
 
Smith said Monday it is Justice Department policy that a sitting president cannot be prosecuted and adds that the Constitution requires that the 
 
 charges be dismissed before Trump is inaugurated. The president-elect taking a victory lap, calling the prosecutions a low point in the history 
 
 of our country. 
 
Well, CNN's Katelyn Polantz following the story for us from Washington. 
 
And we've just read out part of Donald Trump's response to this decision. You wouldn't expect anything less. A source telling CNN, as I understand 
 
 it, that Jack Smith will release a final Trump report before the inauguration. 
 
Correct?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  That's right. Becky, it will be a bit of a throat clearing for Jack Smith and the special 
 
 counsel's office with Trump out there attacking these cases as ones that shouldn't have been brought. 
 
But the Department of Justice, that's not their position. Their position is the Constitution and the presidency, the demands of the presidency, the 
 
 department policy around a sitting president is that a sitting president cannot be facing an indictment. 
 
It can't be hanging over their head. It's too much of a burden and a distraction to the man who is running the country, running the executive 
 
 branch of the United States. And so that's why these cases are being dismissed. 
 
An appeal in the classified documents case is being pulled. And the January 6th case is being dropped. The court did sign off on that. 
 
But the Justice Department also says that they fully believe still the merits of the prosecution, the strength of the case, the gravity of the 
 
 crimes that are charged here against Donald Trump. 
 
So we will be seeing, when Jack Smith closes his office in the coming weeks, he will finalize a report about these two charging decisions. 
 
To charge Donald Trump with crimes of obstruction of a congressional proceeding and conspiracy of crimes, of mishandling national security 
 
 records in Florida and allegedly obstructing or trying to obstruct the Justice Department investigation there. 
 
Smith will put that all into a document. 
 <br>[10:20:07]
 
It will be given to the attorney general. The attorney general, Merrick Garland, has promised he will release it, though it may not say much more 
 
 than what we know now. 
 
We've already had quite a body of work exhibited in court from the special counsel's office, describing all of the evidence that they had in these 
 
 cases to bring these charges and secure them against Donald Trump. 
 
ANDERSON:  Katelyn Polantz is in Washington, D.C. Time there is 10:20. Thank you. 
 
Ahead on CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson, clashes escalate between Pakistani security forces and protesters who are marching in 
 
 support of imprisoned former prime minister Imran Khan. What Khan is telling his supporters is up next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Russia has launched its largest drone attack since the conflict began, damaging buildings in the capital of Kyiv in Ukraine overnight. 
 
Ukraine says it shot down 76 of a record 188 drones launched on it Monday night. Officials say the attack damaged critical infrastructure, causing 
 
 power outages in the country's west. 
 
Well, as the United States gets closer to inaugurating Donald Trump, Russian leaders are hoping his cabinet picks and his Kremlin-friendly inner 
 
 orbit will give Moscow an advantage in its ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Fred Pleitgen has the details from Moscow. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  As Ukrainian forces grow ever more desperate trying to hold off advancing Russian 
 
 troops, the Kremlin is growing ever more hopeful the incoming Trump Administration will try to end the war on terms favorable for Moscow.
 
The words "peace" or "peace plan" come from Trump supporters and those nominated for future positions in the upcoming administration, the Kremlin 
 
 spokesman said today.
 
The Russians irate after the Biden Administration allowed Ukraine to use longer-distance, U.S. and U.K. supplied missiles to strike deeper inside 
 
 Russia. Russian President Vladimir Putin in return firing a new powerful intermediate range ballistic missile into central Ukraine that's never been 
 
 used in war.
 
President-elect Trump's pick for national security adviser confirming ending the Ukraine war will be an urgent priority.
 
MIKE WALTZ, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER CANDIDATE:  President Trump has been very clear about the need to end this conflict. And so, what we're 
 
 need to be discussing is who's at that table --
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  And from Trump insiders and cabinet picks, proposals seemingly in line with Moscow's demands. Elon Musk posting his 
 
 ideas on his X account in early October 2022, calling for U.N. monitored referendums in areas of Ukraine occupied by Russia, for Crimea to be 
 
 recognized as Russian and for Ukraine to remain neutral.
 <br>[10:25:08]
 
Ukraine's president who has said he does believe the war will end faster under Trump also said last week in a radio interview, that Ukraine cannot 
 
 be forced into talks. Musk then trolling Zelenskyy once again. 
 
Despite Elon Musk giving crucial battlefield support to Ukraine by providing Starlink satellite internet to its troops, Russians we spoke to 
 
 in Moscow unequivocal, they like him.
 
He's an extraordinary personality, this man says and since he fulfilled himself and his business, society will work with him well.
 
I think Elon Musk is a good example of the future of our planet, she says. He's doing a lot to bring our planet forward and it's a good development.
 
Others in Trump's orbit with clear pro-Kremlin views. Former Fox Host Tucker Carlson traveled to Moscow in February where he praised Russian 
 
 supermarkets --
 
TUCKER CARLSON, HOST, TUCKER CARLSON NETWORK:  It's pretty non-sanctioned to me.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  -- before sitting down with Vladimir Putin for an extended interview.
 
CARLSON:  Tell us why you believe the United States might strike Russia out of the blue. 
 
How did you conclude that?
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  I didn't say that. 
 
Are we having a talk show or a serious conversation?
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  The Russian leader patient, saying he's willing to listen to the Trump Administration's proposals.
 
PUTIN (through translator):  What was said concerning the desire to restore relations with Russia to help end the Ukrainian crisis, in my opinion, 
 
 seems to me to be at least worthy of attention.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Moscow. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, former Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan is urging his supporters to, quote, "fight to the end" after thousands of protesters 
 
 broke through barricades around Islamabad. 
 
Now Pakistani police fired tear gas to disperse the crowds and blocked roads to try to prevent them from pushing through. 
 
Khan praised protesters for standing firm in the face of what he described as the mafia, he says, that has been imposed on the country. The protests, 
 
 led by Khan's party, which says he is being held on politically motivated charges. 
 
Fahd Husain is a Pakistani journalist and president at Aik News channel. 
 
Good to have you, joining us now live from Lahore in Pakistan. And thank you. 
 
And what do you understand to be happening on the ground at present, sir?  
 
FAHD HUSAIN, PRESIDENT, AIK NEWS CHANNEL:  Thank you very much. 
 
Well, the situation is very much fluid at this stage. The PTI protesters, they came in today. This morning they were able to enter the federal 
 
 capital, Islamabad, in very large numbers. 
 
They were heading straight to what is called the D drop-off (ph) or the red zone, which is right in front of the parliament and the prime minister's 
 
 house, and the supreme court. 
 
A few of them got there but they were pushed back by the security forces. Right now, they are camped about, maybe about a kilometer or two kilometers 
 
 away from that place. The government still has control of that main area. 
 
And the government has just now said that it has absolutely refused to negotiate or open any kind of dialogue with the PTI. So it's kind of a 
 
 standstill right now. 
 
ANDERSON:  So talks between the government and Khan's party breaking down. And the aim, of course, on the Khan party side was to get these criminal 
 
 cases cleared. So as you say, the status quo hasn't changed. 
 
Imran Khan, meantime, urging his supporters to, quote, "fight to the end," despite being in prison since last August. He continues to have a strong 
 
 influence on those who support him. 
 
So what happens next at this stage, sir?
 
What should we expect? 
 
HUSAIN:  Well, a couple of very important things have become clear in the last about 24 hours. 
 
One, of course, is that, as you very correctly said, that Mr. Khan still maintains this hold, this influence over his people, even though he is 
 
 himself in jail, and that he has been able to mobilize a very large number of people from the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, one province. 
 
And they've been able to come because they hold the government there. So they've been able to manage an entry into the federal capital. So he's 
 
 absolutely -- very much reminded everybody that he can have very strong influence. 
 
But unfortunately, an element of violence has also, you know, crept into this whole affair. And yesterday, last night, four members of the law 
 
 enforcement agencies were killed in a hit and run. The driver was ultimately arrested. 
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
But they were killed. And in addition, the government says that 3-4 other policemen have also lost their lives. So the violence has escalated, which 
 
 has created a very difficult situation. The government says that it is holding back, that it is not retaliating with violence, and restraining 
 
 troops not to use any live ammunition. 
 
So there is a stalemate. But the issue is, the longer the stalemate continues, the more difficult it would become for the thousands of people 
 
 gathered in Islamabad to be able to sustain just sitting there. 
 
The temperatures are cold. They're out in the street. So perhaps, perhaps, the PTI might have missed a moment of absolute leverage that they had a 
 
 couple of hours back. Now it is a waiting game. And I think the waiting game suits the government. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes. 
 
Can I just read a statement from the State Department in the U.S.?
 
It's the spokesman, Matthew Miller. speaking to reporters. 
 
He said, and I quote, "We call on protesters to demonstrate peacefully and refrain from violence. 
 
"And at the same time, we call on the Pakistani authorities to," quote, "'respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to ensure respect for 
 
 Pakistan's law and constitution as they work to maintain law and order.'" 
 
Is there, do you feel, any sense of groundswell of international pressure on the government to negotiate with Khan and his party at this point? 
 
HUSAIN:  Well, as yet there are no indications. Yes, the statement that you just referred to is there. But beyond that, we do not see any indication. 
 
 This is very early in this whole conflict. And it may, the whole issue  may dissipate in a short time. 
 
Because then, of course, the whole issue of international pressure will go away with it. We have not seen that. What we have seen in fact, is an 
 
 element of violence which, has so far remained under control. 
 
But if it were to spiral out, then things could change. Even so, for example, the offices of our news channel, Aik News, were also attacked 
 
 today by protesters and vandalized. They were controlled later on. So right now, I think the government wants somehow to ensure that the violence does 
 
 not escalate. 
 
As long as that doesn't happen, I think the international pressure will probably not come down very hard on the government. But ultimately, of 
 
 course, this issue, if it drags on, then I think a negotiated settlement would become a bit more difficult for Mr. Khan if he wants it in his favor. 
 
Despite the fact that he has shown that he has street muscle and street power. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes. Well, Khan supporters will say that, you know, the hope will be from the government that they will quieten down. 
 
And, you know, that remains to be seen whether indeed that happens and whether the government is prepared to negotiate at any point with Mr. Khan 
 
 himself or indeed the party. 
 
It's good to have you, sir. Important insight and analysis on what is a very, very important story. Thank you. 
 
You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson. Time here in Abu Dhabi is 7:33. 
 
Ahead on this show, G7 ministers confront a range of global crises at their meeting in Italy. What they are saying about the Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire 
 
 plan that could be approved today by the Israeli security cabinet. More on that is after this.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Well, welcome back. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson. And wherever you are watching, you are more than welcome. 
 
We are awaiting news out of Israel, where the security cabinet there is set to vote on a ceasefire deal with Hezbollah. Now all indications are that 
 
 the cabinet will approve the plan, which calls for a 60 day pause in hostilities between Hezbollah and Israel, to set the stage for a lasting 
 
 truce. 
 
Well, ahead of that, Israel has been pounding what it says are Hezbollah targets in Lebanon. A flurry of airstrikes hit in and around Beirut within 
 
 the past few hours. 
 
Meantime, an investigation by Human Rights Watch finds an Israeli airstrike that killed three journalists in Lebanon last month was most likely a 
 
 deliberate attack on civilians and an apparent war crime. The strike happened at a resort where more than a dozen journalists have been staying 
 
 for weeks. 
 
Human Rights Watch says it involved U.S.-made weapons and that U.S. officials may be complicit in war crimes. The IDF hasn't commented on the 
 
 report. It initially claimed it was targeting terrorists but a later statement said that the incident is under review. 
 
Well, the crisis in the Middle East front and center this week at a meeting of G7 ministers in Italy. U.S. secretary of state Antony Blinken discussed 
 
 the latest developments with Arab officials, who were invited to attend the talks with the G7 foreign ministers this time yesterday. 
 
And as we've been telling you, today, European and American diplomats optimistic that Israel and Hezbollah will actually sign up to this 
 
 ceasefire and that they hope it could serve as an impetus to end the war in Gaza. 
 
Let's get you to Jennifer Hansler, who is back with us this hour from the State Department. 
 
And your sources, as I understand it, suggesting that really the G7 meeting yesterday, dominated by the Middle East, by the conflict in Lebanon, the 
 
 potential for a ceasefire and the wider concerns that those in attendance have about the region, just explain what you understand to be the narrative 
 
 there. 
 
JENNIFER HANSLER, CNN STATE DEPARTMENT PRODUCER:  Well, Becky, that's exactly right. Yesterday was all about the Middle East. First in the 
 
 morning session, just with the G7 ministers discussing the situation in the region.
 
Particularly the Red Sea, where we have seen a flurry of escalation Houthi attacks on shipping vessels there in the Red Sea since the start of the war 
 
 in Gaza. 
 
Later in the afternoon, they were joined by their Arab counterparts, these key stakeholders in the region, to discuss Gaza, to discuss Lebanon, to 
 
 discuss Iran and all of the broader situation there in the Middle East. 
 
And, of course, this is a flashpoint for the U.S. not only because these diplomatic efforts thus far have yet to yield any results but also because 
 
 the Biden administration is on a clock, ticking clock right now. They have less than two months in office to try to push these initiatives forward 
 
 before the next administration comes in. 
 
President Donald Trump retaking office there and there is the expectation that we could see major shifts both in the policy on the Middle East as 
 
 well as in Ukraine. 
 
And, of course, Ukraine was the topic of conversation here today in Italy, where they were joined by the Ukrainian foreign minister at this morning's 
 
 session. So there is a lot of anxiety, a lot of uncertainty about what is to come. 
 
Now secretary of state Antony Blinken spoke earlier today and said that they are standing together on these major issues on the Middle East, on 
 
 Ukraine, on the Indo-Pacific and we expect that to be reflected in some sort of joint statement. 
 
Becky, I should say there will probably be a place where they are disagreeing and that is over these ICC arrest warrants for Benjamin 
 
 Netanyahu. 
 <br>[10:40:02]
 
The Italian foreign minister said he was hoping to find common ground on this front. But when he was asked this morning about whether they have 
 
 achieved some sort of consensus, he said, get back to me after the meeting. 
 
And he said, you know we are friends of Israel. But we believe that there should be respect for international law. 
 
The U.S. has come out full throatedly and said that they reject those arrest warrants. So we are going to see where everything stands, if they 
 
 release some sort of joint statement here. So a lot was riding on this last meeting for Secretary Blinken there at the G7 -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Those arrest warrants, of course, have complicated what was already a very fractious relationship between the French and Israel. 
 
The French, meantime, being part of the brokered mediated talks between Hezbollah, Lebanon and Israel, to try and get this ceasefire in place, it's 
 
 all very, very complicated. And it's always good to have you, Jennifer, to help us sort through what is a very complex set of issues. Thank you. 
 
Ahead on CONNECT THE WORLD, Donald Trump. He says higher tariffs will be part of his game plan on day one of his presidency. We will get you more on 
 
 that after this. 
 
And why Texas could be key to Trump's new immigration policy. That after this.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Right. 
 
Just some news coming in. We've been following the top story today, which is the vote that we are expecting to get from the Israeli security cabinet 
 
 meeting on a ceasefire deal. As we understand it, that that meeting has been delayed. 
 
It was scheduled for about 1.5 hours or so ago, as we understood it. This is to discuss and vote on a U.S. backed ceasefire deal in Lebanon. Now as 
 
 we understand it from sources, a spokesman in the prime minister's office has told us this meeting has been delayed and not started yet. And we will 
 
 get more as we get more on this. 
 
Or in fact, I'm being told we have got Nic Robertson. So that's good. Let's get to Nic. 
 
Nic, you're in Jerusalem. 
 
What more do we know at this point?
 
ROBERTSON:  Yes, that cabinet meeting was expected to start maybe about an hour ago. We understand, at least as of a few minutes ago, it hadn't 
 
 started. One of the reasons we understand was the prime minister was meeting with his Likud Party to make sure he'd got the support of all the 
 
 ministers who will be in that meeting. 
 
So let's break it down a little bit here. I think we talked about this before, that there would be 11 people in this security cabinet meeting. And 
 
 it's a simple majority that carries the vote. So just needs six votes. 
 
Well, there are six people in the Likud Party. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
The prime minister has just met with, who we understand from the prime minister's office, have given him their support, so he expects them in the 
 
 cabinet meeting when it gets underway to vote in favor of the ceasefire. 
 
So it appears -- and we know that there are others that will come along and support the prime minister as well in this vote. 
 
So it appears that, along with what we we're hearing from the prime minister's office in their confidence over the past 24 hours or so, it 
 
 appears that going into this meeting, when it begins, the prime minister has the votes he needs to agree to this ceasefire deal. 
 
You know, it's not -- we've said this so many times -- it's not done until it's done. And, of course, we're literally watching what's happening in 
 
 Beirut as well, with these warnings that the IDF has just given for areas in Beirut that weren't even targeted in the war in 2006, which is causing 
 
 great consternation. 
 
It really does seem that, in the final minutes, down to the wire, the IDF really is going after an a significant number of targets. And they made the 
 
 point this afternoon that they'd hit 20. They'd had 20 strikes in 120 seconds. And they'd already announced earlier in the day multiple strikes 
 
 before. 
 
So this is very clearly a very heavy day of bombardment in Beirut. And we're hearing from my colleague, Jeremy Diamond, who's right up in the 
 
 north of Israel at the moment, multiple, multiple sirens close to the border there in the town that he's in. 
 
I think that's an indication, again, of the level of incoming fire from Hezbollah as well at this moment -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  So right up into the wire, if it is indeed the wire, and a decision by the Security Council to -- the security cabinet to sign off on 
 
 a deal. 
 
A lot going on, both in Beirut and in the north of Israel. These warnings in Beirut being given for areas of central and Western Beirut. A lot of 
 
 concern about what is going on there. Nic, thank you. More from Israel as we get it. 
 
Well, Donald Trump sending a message about tariffs. The U.S. president- elect vowing to slap higher levies on China and huge new tariffs on neighbors in the U.S. on his first day back in the White House. Trump says 
 
 Mexico and Canada will be charged, quote, "a 25 percent tariff on all products coming into the United States." 
 
Well, I want to bring in CNN's Anna Stewart at this point. 
 
Look, you know there have been a lot of threats about tariffs on China. As I recall, he ripped up what was known as the NAFTA deal in his first 
 
 administration. That was a free trade agreement between Mexico and Canada. And he slapped tariffs or at least made things a lot harder than they had 
 
 been for goods coming in from those two neighbors. 
 
So I guess the question at this point is, he's two months out, isn't he, from this transition and getting into the White House. 
 
So why all of these great sort of announcements now? 
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Isn't it exciting?
 
The campaign is over. The next administration hasn't begun. And we're already getting announcements like this. 
 
Well, it's interesting if you consider that, given these can't be implemented very soon, not until, of course, January, in many ways, what's 
 
 been announced leaves room for negotiation, which is often why you threaten tariffs in the first place. 
 
It makes a really good starting base to negotiate. The fact that Donald Trump likes tariffs is no surprise. I think during the campaign he actually 
 
 said the word tariff is his favorite word, "the most beautiful word in the dictionary." 
 
What was surprising here, though, was to see that Canada and Mexico are being targeted in what feels like the first round. Through the campaign, 
 
 the use of tariffs is very much an economic tool. 
 
It was discussed as a way of bringing U.S. manufacturing home, increasing employment, boosting inward investment and, of course, really boosting tax 
 
 revenue at the same time. 
 
However, when this was announced yesterday on Truth Social, this is what Donald Trump said. 
 
He said, "The tariff will remain in effect until such time as drugs -- in particular, fentanyl -- and all illegal aliens stop this invasion of our 
 
 country," which certainly suggests that the use of tariffs here is more as a diplomatic tool or a diplomatic weapon. 
 
You could say to work on U.S. border control and perhaps other areas as well. So I think tariffs being used here slightly differently to what we've 
 
 expected to see so far. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes. Yes. No, you're making a really good point. 
 
Look, what do we know about the incoming U.S. Treasury Secretary? 
 
STEWART:  This was exciting. Scott Bessent. So really well known hedge funder, super well connected in the investment world. He's worked with the 
 
 likes of Jim Rogers, George Soros. He knows corporate America. He knows the CEOs. He's well connected. 
 
Investors were quite excited by this nomination on the basis that he's considered to be a bit more moderate than maybe some of the picks we could 
 
 have had. 
 <br>[10:50:02]
 
He has worked with Republicans and Democrats and perhaps he can be a moderating force, particularly when it comes to areas like tariffs. 
 
Because what we didn't have yesterday was, of course, that campaign pledge that he, Donald Trump, would consider imposing universal tariffs of 10 
 
 percent to 20 percent on the whole world. 
 
Any imports to the U.S., that could be to come. But there are hopes that perhaps the Treasury Secretary will have a moderate force here. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes, it's interesting, isn't it?
 
Well, let's see. Certainly the markets like him if only for this sense of sort of moderation in tone and rhetoric. So we'll see how long that lasts. 
 
 Thank you. Always a pleasure. 
 
You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me and Anna. At this point we will be seeing a lot of scenes like this, as Thanksgiving gets closer more and 
 
 more Americans hitting the roads and the skies for what is the annual holiday back end of this week. More on that coming up.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Well, it is expected to be a record Thanksgiving; 80 million Americans to journey 50 miles or more this Thanksgiving season. That's how 
 
 it's totted up. That's up on last year's figures and even on pre-pandemic numbers, I'm told. 
 
The majority will travel by car, fueled by lower gasoline prices. Air travel will also see higher numbers of passengers this week, with an 11 
 
 percent increase compared to 2019. CNN's Ryan Young joining us now from Atlanta, an extremely busy hub. 
 
How are airlines and, well, car rental places, frankly, dealing with such a massive influx of customers? 
 
How are things? 
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Look, what's very clear here is the American public wants to travel. 
 
Not only have they been traveling all summer but they want to get out for the holidays. 
 
I guess they're tired of all the arguing. They want to get out there on the roads. That's one of the busiest roads in all of America. That is the 
 
 connector, 75 and 85 blend together. Take us all the way out. 
 
And, of course, we're going to see 71.1 million folks hit the road. That's a million more than last year. And to give you an idea, gas prices are 
 
 down. People understand that. It was $3.25 last year. This time it's around $3.05 average gas price across America. 
 
But this is not the only place that's going to be slammed when it comes to holiday travel. The TSA checkpoints all across this country, they're 
 
 expecting almost 3 million people to pass through security just today. And then the same numbers tomorrow. 
 
They're talking about peak travel times. They're going to crush those pre- pandemic numbers. But take a listen to travelers as they're getting ready to deal with all the headaches when it comes to hitting the road. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  make sure you leave early. Account for traffic, especially in the middle of the day. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Make sure you have your boarding pass and your ID on you and make sure you come on time. Early, really; not late. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We just try and plan ahead and pack super early so we can get out in time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We've had more success going to the airport than driving on Thanksgiving. That's for sure. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG:  What always astounds me is Thanksgiving always ends up being like Valentine's Day. You know, you have the people who are ready for it. They 
 
 buy all the flowers and everything they need ahead of time. And then you have the last minute folks, who run out at the last minute. 
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
Put Thanksgiving to the same bucket. It's going to be a lot of people who are going to try to leave too late. And there are peak travel times. So you 
 
 get crushed at the airport, you know, if the weather hits a certain way. You could see all those sort of delays start adding up. 
 
And it can really impact your trip home. So hopefully everyone makes it to where they have to go and gets that great turkey to enjoy this holiday 
 
 period -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  You sound like such a grownup. I wonder whether that was the advice you gave yourself or whether that was your action when you were 
 
 slightly younger. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON:  I hear you, I hear you. I'd have been, (INAUDIBLE).
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
ANDERSON:  Good stuff. The older we get, the more sensible we become. 
 
Why didn't you book all of this in advance?
 
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, you know. And it's the same every year. You're absolutely right, mate. Thank you very much indeed. 
 
And going over the river and through the woods to get to grandmother's house on time, that depends a lot on the weather. And there is plenty of 
 
 wintry weather in the forecast in places that could put a bit of a wrinkle in those travel plans, if they were plans, whether traveling by air or on 
 
 the roads. 
 
So good luck to all of you, wherever it is you are traveling, if indeed you are. 
 
And that is it for us on CONNECT THE WORLD from a very balmy Abu Dhabi. Stay with CNN. "NEWSROOM" is up next. 
 
END