Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Election Three Weeks Away as Harris Turns up Hear on Trump; CNBC Anchor Says Trump Has Backed Out of Planned Interview; Florida Opens More Free Gas Sites; Just Aired 2-2:30p ET

Aired October 15, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:01:14]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: With just three weeks to go, more voters are heading to the polls. And the campaign is getting increasingly personal as Vice President Kamala Harris describes former President Donald Trump as unstable and unhinged. And he goes after her medical record. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: And a new ruling by the Supreme Court that restricts gun rights. A change of pace for a majority on the courth that recently tends to side with Second Amendment advocates and a victory for officials in one state. 
 
And a daunting task. People in Florida face the job of cleaning up after two hurricanes, but many will find that hard to do without gas or electricity.
 
We are following these major developing stories and many more, all coming in right here to CNN News Central. 
 
SANCHEZ: With just three weeks until Election Day, both Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump are trying to shore up support with voters that will be key to a victory. 
 
Just a few hours from now, the Vice President will be in Detroit hosting a town hall with radio host Charlamagne tha God, part of her campaign's attempts to reach more black voters, specifically black men. 
 
The former President, meantime, travels to the Atlanta area to tape a town hall with an all-female audience. 
 
KEILAR: Trump just wrapped up an interview with Bloomberg News in Chicago, where he was there to talk about his economic agenda, but was asked questions about his actions on January 6th and whether he would accept the results if he loses again. Here's the moment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (R) AND CURRENT U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We had a term, peacefully and patriotically. These were people -- if you think an election is crooked, and I do 100 percent, if you think the day it comes when you can't protest, you take a look at the democrats, they protested 2016. They're still protesting. And nobody talks about them. But if we protest, we want to have honest elections. People were angry. People went there. 
 
And I'll tell you what, they never show that the primary scene in Washington was hundreds of thousands, the largest group of people I've ever spoken before and I've spoken before. And it was love and peace. And some people went to the Capitol. And a lot of strange things happened there. A lot of strange things with people being waved into the Capitol by police, with people screaming, go in with that never got into trouble, you know? I don't want to mention names, but you know who they are.
 
A lot of strange things happen. But you had a peaceful, very peaceful. I left. I left the morning that I was supposed to leave. I went to Florida. And you had a very peaceful transfer. This was not a -- and I'll tell you what, those people that did go down, which was a tiny fraction of the people that went to Washington, I mean, you're talking about a very, very small, because, you know, hundreds of thousands of people, and I don't know what, you had 500, 600, 700 people go down to the Capitol. But those people that was not one of those people had a gun --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Actually, they did just to be clear. And almost everything he said there is untrue. But we are well aware now of some of the weapons that some of the folks there were carrying that day. 
 
Let's go to CNN's Kristen Holmes in Atlanta. Kristen, what more did Trump say during his interview with Bloomberg? 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I mean, the other thing I just want to point out, just when it comes to January 6th and the peaceful transition of power, which there was not a peaceful transition of power, is he also talked about how he got on a plane and went down to Florida. He is referring to what he did before inauguration, but he also broke precedent there by essentially storming out and going to Florida and not staying through the transition of power, something that we have seen for decades and through cycles and cycles of various presidents. 
 <br>[14:05:11]
 
But in addition to talking about January 6th, something that has obviously come up quite a bit, he was also asked about those recent reports of him talking to Vladimir Putin multiple times since leaving office. He refused to answer questions on that. One of the most interesting things he also talked about was his economic policy. This was the first time that he's actually had to answer questions about this enormous amount of pushback we have seen from economists across the spectrum on that proposal for various tariffs. We heard the Editor in Chief of Bloomberg really lay into him about this various pushback, about the fact these economists say that would lead to more inflation. And at one point, the Editor in Chief seemed to get frustrated, as Donald Trump did, as he often does, and even acknowledged that he was kind of avoiding the topic, avoiding answering questions directly. 
 
Take a listen to what he said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: Guys, if I can finish?
 
MAN #1: Yeah. 
 
TRUMP: I'll go longer if you want.
 
MAN #1: No, no. 
 
TRUMP: Because you got to be able to -- 
 
MAN #1: I was asking about the federal reserve.
 
TRUMP: -- you move to quiet enough. You got to be able to finish your thought because it's very important. You know, this is big stuff we're talking about. You can't go that quickly. 
 
MAN #1: You've gone from the dollar (inaudible).
 
TRUMP: So let me just tell you. So I said, no, I'm just telling you basic -- it's called the weave. It's all these different things happening. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And Donald Trump says it's called the weave. It's also an avoidance tactic. He often goes off scripts. His whole thing is that he says he can come back to the original question. But generally speaking, when he goes into these long rants, he doesn't actually answer the question, even if he does, in fact, come back to it. But all in all, particularly focused here on those comments about the economy, because it was the first time he was challenged on it, one of the most interesting things that we heard was this challenge that Donald Trump always refers to this in singular incidents about one company coming back. But he never really answered the question as to what this would mean for the economy as a whole and how it would be implemented. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yeah. And almost unanimously, analysts suggest that that level of tariffs could send the U.S. economy into a recession. Kristen Holmes, thank you so much. 
 
Let's get to Eva McKend now. We're just hours from now, the Vice President is making another play for African-American men. Eva, you are in Detroit for this town hall. This conversation with Charlamagne tha God. What should we expect? 
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Boris, part of her pitch is rooted in elevating her support for entrepreneurs, 1 million fully forgivable loans up to $20,000. She talks about strengthening the cryptocurrency industry, legalizing marijuana, and then making sure that black men have access to a legalized that industry, access to capital. So the argument is becoming quite clear. She is really going to lean into these issues in her conversation with Charlamagne tha God, and she argues, and Democratic surrogates, by extension, that listen, the former President, he might be appealing to black men based in part on this sense of machismo. But when it comes to the actual policies that are going to change their lives, a Harris administration would be better suited to speak to those issues.
 
SANCHEZ: Eva McKend live for us in Detroit. Thank you so much for the update, Eva. 
 
Let's get some perspective on all of this now with senior adviser for Vice President Kamala Harris's campaign, Ian Sams. Ian, thanks so much for joining us this afternoon. After the event last night, the VP and her campaign put out social media messages suggesting that something is off with Donald Trump's mental acuity. And I'm curious about that line of attack because for months, even before his debate performance, republicans attacked President Biden on similar grounds. Do you think that that's a winning message? 
 
IAN SAMS, SENIOR ADVISER, KAMALA HARRIS CAMPAIGN: Well, look, I think the basic threshold of a candidate running for president is to put their medical records and their physical health information out there for the country to see before they cast their ballots. President Biden did that. Vice President Harris did that this weekend. And unfortunately, President Trump is refusing to do so. He said in an interview on CBS on August 20th, less than two months ago, that he would very gladly put out his medical information for the public to digest before they cast their ballots, and he hasn't. 
 
And then what we've seen in the intervening period, whether it's the event last night, you're talking about where it was a little odd, and he just sort of stood there and watched his audience while playing YMCA for a few 30 minutes or so, or today when he's getting agitated and angry at the Bloomberg moderator at the forum in Chicago and doing what Kristen just mentioned in her reporting is the weave. I'm not entirely sure what that is other than just rambling and meandering. 
 
And so it does raise the real question of are you fit for the job? Are you up to the task? This is a very serious moment in a very serious time for our country. 
 <br>[14:10:02]
 
And you think about the decisions that a president has to make. And are you physically capable of doing it? And he hasn't released the level of public health information to the public to be able to make that assessment. 
 
SANCHEZ: He did put out a letter from his doctor that was roughly a year to two years old. I want to ask you about something you posted on social media that is related to this. You posted a side eye emoji in response to Trump dropping out of a planned interview with CNBC, alluding, again, to Trump's mental fitness. Now, the Vice President was invited to appear with them, but declined. She also declined to be at that Bloomberg conversation or to have a conversation with Bloomberg, I should say. She also declined an interview with Time Magazine. Declining media hits really isn't an indicator of mental fitness, is it? 
 
SAMS: Well, you know, I think anybody who thinks that the vice president's dodging tough questions should tune in tomorrow when she sits down with Fox News for an interview. And so I think she's out there taking questions even from really tough corners. Today, his appearance at Bloomberg was the first event he has done in one entire month with a mainstream media outlet. Everything else has been in conservative media or friendly spaces.
 
And so I think that when you think about what he is doing right now in the close of this campaign, who are we talking to? Who are the two candidates talking to in this closing few weeks of the election? There's a small number of undecided voters out there who are trying to make up their mind about which of these candidates is offering ideas that could help their lives. And Vice President Harris is taking her message everywhere, whether it's with, like you mentioned, Char Charlamagne tha God in the Breakfast Club audience, or whether it's on Fox News with Bret Baier, whereas President Trump has spent the last month avoiding interviews, not sitting for 60 minutes like every other major party presidential candidate has done for the last half century, and refusing to debate again and pulling out of interviews. 
 
And so it does raise questions about what his approach here is and why there aren't more opportunities for the voters who are still trying to make up their mind, not hardcore base voters like he has on lock in the MAGA movement. But real undecided voters in Pennsylvania and Arizona and Michigan who are trying to make up their minds. Why is he not speaking to them? Why is he not being transparent about his fitness for the job? 
 
And I think that it's because, and you guys had on last night on your air, his own former Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, who said that the country needs to take very seriously his threats of turning the military against American citizens, his own former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff saying, not a terrorist, not Putin. No individuals like that are the most dangerous person to our country, but Donald Trump is the most dangerous person to our country.
 
I think that they're trying to hold Donald Trump back so that the country doesn't get a chance to see what those people who know Trump best saw when he was president before
 
SANCHEZ: You weaved a lot into that response, Ian, which I certainly appreciate. Can I ask you something about Joe Rogan's podcast? Can you confirm whether Vice President Harris is in talks to appear on that podcast? 
 
SAMS: Well, I don't have any news to make about Joe Rogan's podcast on the show. But obviously she's taking her message to a lot of large audience platforms. Last week, for example, sitting with Howard Stern for an entire hour to take a wide range of questions, whether it's the view, whether it's Stephen Colbert or whether it's Fox News, like she's going to interview with tomorrow, she's committed to speaking to the broadest section of voters possible while President Trump seems to be retreating to his safe spaces. 
 
SANCHEZ: And Ian, I have one more question for you. There's a key voting bloc in Michigan that today is hearing from two influential Arab-American groups who endorsed Joe Biden in 2020. They are telling their community to skip this election, declining to endorse any candidate. This is despite Vice President Harris holding an event specifically geared to that community within the last week or so in Michigan. How concerned are you, how concerned does that make you about the potential for Democrats to win that state? 
 
SAMS: Well, I think the Vice President's respectful of the voter and understands that people are going to make different choices in this race based on their own preferences.
 
I think that when it comes to the tragic situation in the Middle East, she's been very clear. She supports Israel's right to defend itself, but obviously, wants to see a lasting ceasefire and peace and the right of Gazans to determine their own future. And so she's going to continue sharing that message now until the election in three weeks. And, you know, hopefully people will hear the choice between her or the chaos and instability that Donald Trump brings where he's suggesting that we should bomb nuclear facilities in the Middle East. You know, I don't know how that's going to help bring peace to the region. 
 
And so as we really think about the two choices in this election and which candidate is going to advance peace in the Middle East and which candidate is going to defend America's national security interests. You know, voters are going to get to see a clear choice between Vice President Harris and President Trump.
 
SANCHEZ: Ian Sams, thanks for joining us and sharing your point of view. Appreciate the time. 
 
SAMS: Thank you.
 
SANCHEZ: Still ahead this hour on CNN News Central Florida, opening more free fuel sites as hundreds of gas stations remain dry days after Hurricane Milton. 
 <br>[14:15:09]
 
The latest on recovery efforts. Plus, the Supreme Court overturning a firearms ruling in Pennsylvania. What it means for those under 21 in that commonwealth? 
 
And the new sign that Boeing's crisis is worsening. A big deal when it comes to the airline maker. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Some bleak news today to share with you from North Carolina. Governor Roy Cooper says that 92 people remain unaccounted for after Hurricane Helene as the state copes with tragedy. [14:20:01]
 
The governor also says that FEMA has approved claims for 77,000 people already paying out nearly $100 million in aid since the hurricane hit. He stressed, though, that disinformation may keep more people from getting the help that FEMA offers.
 
Yesterday, teams for FEMA resumed door to door operations after they had to pause because of threats against workers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROY COOPER, GOVERNOR OF NORTH CAROLINA: We don't know how many people are not going to apply for FEMA because they have heard misinformation about FEMA taking their property or other wild accusations that are out there, people who desperately need this help but have been convinced that they should be afraid of FEMA or other government officials. That's something we may never know.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: State officials say nearly 600 roads are still closed and they've identified more than 7000 damage sites. And now, let's get to what's happening in Florida, where CNN's Carlos Suarez has been monitoring things from Miami. Carlos, what's the latest on the recovery there? 
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brianna and Boris, the clearing of debris and the rebuilding effort really is going to take months, if not years. I mean, there are parts of southwest Florida that are still recovering from Hurricane Ian, which hit two years ago. Now, earlier this afternoon, FEMA's Operation Blue roof program got underway in nearly two dozen counties. The US Army Corps of Engineers will head up the effort to place a tarp on homes that were damaged by Hurricane Milton and all of it for free.
 
Now, right now, the number of people without power in Florida is 177,000, with the largest concentration of outages were told in the Hillsborough County area. Now, earlier today, school district officials there said that students won't return to the classroom until at least Thursday. The district is the third largest in Florida with a student enrollment of over 224,000.
 
Now, at a briefing in Pasco County, which is just northeast of Tampa, Governor Ron DeSantis, he highlighted the state's ongoing effort in trying to get gas to some of the hardest hit areas. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RON DESANTIS, GOVERNOR OF FLORIDA: We have now dispensed just from the state, over two and a half million gallons of gas free to the people of Florida. So we've done regular gas, we've done diesel. Some of that has been just backfilling stations who needed it. And they weren't may be able to get it from the port. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) SUAREZ: All right, so gas in the Tampa area really still remains an issue. We're told that nearly half of gas stations there are without a supply, though state officials believe that that number is going to improve throughout the week. Boris and Brianna 
 
KEILAR: All right. Carlos Suarez, thank you for that report. New signs today that Boeing's crisis is getting worse. The company says, it's planning to borrow $10 billion from banks and to raise another 25 billion by selling stock and debt. 
 
KEILAR: And while it's strapped for cash, a bigger problem could be a strike that's paralyzed their operations. Workers are set to hold a major rally today.
 
Let's get the latest from CNN's Vanessa Yurkevich. So Vanessa, what's the way forward for the company at this point? 
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: They have to try to get out of debt and they have to try to end this strike as soon as possible. But, of course, easier said than done. And today's regulatory filing just shows how bad it's getting for Boeing. They said that they are borrowing about $10 billion from banks and they're trying to sell debt in stock for another $15 billion. But this is really just capping off what's been a really bad week for Boeing.
 
Just last Tuesday, talks broke down between the union, the IAM Union, and Boeing. And you have 33,000 members on strike. One estimate puts this strike at about $5 billion in just the first month. And then on Friday, a double whammy, you have a judge deciding not to rule on a guilty plea that Boeing entered into with the DOJ, in which they would pay hundreds of millions of dollars for the two fatal crashes of two 737 Max jets. Now, the families of victims had wanted $25 billion. And now that this is up in the air, Boeing could have to pay more money. 
 
And then just later that afternoon on Friday, Boeing announcing that they're laying off 10 percent of their employees. That's about 17,000 people over the next few months. And then today, just shows that Boeing is still trying to dig  out of nearly $33 billion of debt, as well as trying to manage this strike that is now entering its second month, Brianna and Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: And Vanessa, the labor secretary, Julie Su flying out to Seattle to meet with Boeing in the union. What can you tell us about this? 
 
Just yesterday, Secretary sue met with Boeing and the Union separately, but the President of the Union saying that Julie Su was very active in talking to the president and the bargaining committee about exactly what the roadblocks were.
 <br>[14:25:07]
 
And Julie Su, the Secretary of Labor, is someone that's been really successful in both averting strikes and helping to end strikes. She averted the west coast dockworkers strike. She also helped the UAW and the big three automakers negotiate on talks. And she helped end, just recently, the dock workers strike on the east and Gulf coast. So it says something when Julie Su shows up to try to get negotiations back on track. But the big thing is they got to get back to the table in order to move negotiations forward, Brianna and Boris. 
 
KEILAR: All right. Vanessa Yurkevich, we know that you're keeping a close eye on this. Thank you for that. 
 
Just three weeks until Election Day, and the race will be coming down to seven battleground states. 
 
Next, we head to the most pro-Trump County of them all, where Trump received more than 90 percent of the vote back in 2020. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END