Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Biden Campaigns with Harris in Pennsylvania; Protests Erupt Across Israel; Netanyahu Asks for Forgiveness; Russia Unleashing a Barrage of Airstrikes on Ukraine; Mindset Required to Build a Successful Business. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired September 02, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: -- law since 1930. I got to admit, I've been around -- I think I'm only 40, but I've been around a long time. But I 
 
 quite frankly, until 10 years ago, wasn't aware, you know, back in the '30s, when they're trying to make sure unions could organize and business 
 
 couldn't interfere. The law was passed that said every penny the president gets from the Senate, the House and Congress to spend on a project, he 
 
 should hire an American worker and use an American product.
 
But past administration -- seriously, past administration, including my predecessor, failed to buy America. They shipped jobs overseas where labor 
 
 was cheaper and brought home the product that was more expensive. But not anymore. Federal projects build American roads, bridges, highways, and to 
 
 be made with American products by American workers. That's why we're creating all these. I'm serious. It's simple and basic. That's why we're 
 
 creating so many good paying jobs.
 
In fact, we're requiring those kinds of projects to pay Davis Baker prevailing wages so there are jobs that can raise a family arm on.
 
Many of those jobs don't require a college degree. In fact, we expanded registered apprenticeships. Remember all the hell I got for doing that -- 
 
 we got for doing that? Well, guess what? It resulted in hiring over 1 million apprentices since we came to office.
 
Lots of folks don't realize getting an apprenticeship is like getting on a college degree. Why? You have to train for four or five years to get that. 
 
 And some of the best workers in the world arrived where we are, you know.
 
When you're in Pittsburgh, you're standing with steelworkers. Let's be clear. I believe in American steel companies. American-owned and operated 
 
 steel companies. For simple reasons. It's not hyperbole. American steelworkers are the best steelworkers in the world. And I made it clear 
 
 last time I was in Pittsburgh, the United States Steel, an iconic American company for more than a century, is going to remain an American company.
 
Remember the young senator, why the National Labor Relations Board was sometimes so anti-labor? It was set up to help labor, to be pro-labor. 
 
 Well, guess what? That's why one of the most significant things we've done, Kamala and I, is appointing a National Labor Reserve Board -- Relations 
 
 Board that actually believes in unions and believes in recognition. It's a big deal.
 
Remember, we have short memories. I'm all for forgiveness. I'm not for this. Trump appointed union busters on that board. No, it's a fact. But 
 
 it's real. It affects people's lives. We're going to let that son of a gun do that again?
 
CROWD:  No.
 
BIDEN:  Folks, we made a lot of progress and Kamala and I are going to build on that progress and she's going to build on it. I'll be on the 
 
 sidelines, but I'll do everything I can to help. But look, I'm not joking when I say -- this is not a joke, when I said this when I was running in 
 
 2020, a lot of people didn't believe me, you did, but you didn't believe me. It's all at risk because of Donald Trump, literally. With a stroke of 
 
 the pen, he can get rid of a lot of this.
 
And do you think this guy gives a damn about your pensions?
 
CROWD:  No.
 
BIDEN:  No, I'm serious. Do you think he lose even an instant of sleep over it? Do you think he cares about all the work you do every day and how hard 
 
 it is?
 
CROWD:  No.
 
BIDEN:  Do you think he cares about good paying jobs for hardworking people who built this economy?
 
CROWD:  No.
 
BIDEN:  Hell. He regards picket lines, he'd rather cross one than walk one. But I have no problem walking the picket line.
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  Never have. Nor does Kamala. We'll always walk those sides alongside you. Union workers built this country. Again, that's not 
 
 hyperbole, that's a fact. These are facts. These are not campaign slogans.
 
Let me close with this. Five years ago, I began my campaign for president right here in Pittsburgh. I said, one of the reasons I was running was to 
 
 rebuild the backbone and spine of America, the middle-class and working- class folks. Not a joke. Think about it. Think about it. Well, five years later, we've done just that.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  I'm back in Pittsburgh on Labor Day again with a simple message, as you look at this election, I spelled my whole career believing in unions. 
 
 I'm not joking when I say that. I'm honored to be considered the most pro- union president ever.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  By the way, remember all the talk, Biden got elected and he's going to do a planned economy, we're going to collapse, and there's going to be 
 
 all this caving in? Interest rates are going to go through the ceiling. Come on, man. I'm here to tell you, it's about increasing the strength of 
 
 your unions, which this is all about.
 
If you care about hard working people. Just give him a fair shot. Everyone in America deserves a fair shot. No, Gary, a fair shot. If you care about 
 
 the dignity of work, and I mean, it matters, the dignity of work, the way you're treated, the decency.
 
I remember when my great grandfather was one of the -- only the second Catholic elected statewide to the State Senate here in Pennsylvania. And I 
 
 remember they talked about when he -- when they're running against him in 1906. They said, guess what? They said, he's a Molly McGuires. You know 
 
 what a Molly McGuire was? Well, those of you who don't, a Molly McGuires, back in the old days, when we Irish and the Catholic came and then the 
 
 Poles and others that were Catholic, when they came to the United States of America in the beginning, the 1840s -- late 1840s, they made their way down 
 
 into Pennsylvania. A lot of them.
 
And there's a tear in this -- in the coal mines. Those guys who got there last ended up being the last people in the coal mines. A lot of the 
 
 English-owned the coal mines. And what they did was, they'd really beat the hell out of the mostly Catholic population that was in the mines. Not a 
 
 joke. Not a joke.
 
But there was a group that called the Molly Maguires. And the Molly Maguires, if they'd find out the foreman who was taking advantage of an 
 
 individual, and they'd literally kill him. Not a joke. And they bring him body up and put him on the doorstep of his family. Kind of crude.
 
But I got to admit, they accused my great grandfather being a model where he wasn't. But we're so damn disappointed. You know, that's a joke. That's 
 
 a joke.
 
Look, it's about the dignity of work. It's about how you're treated. And when I met with the IBEW and I started off this last campaign first, I 
 
 said, there's two things they're asking of me. And I said, two things I'm asking of you. One, you've got to open up your units to more women. Not a 
 
 joke. And two, to more minorities. You've done both that. And guess what? Instead of having support of 30 percent of the American leaders, now we're 
 
 65 percent of the America support the American Union movement.
 
It really is all about the dignity of work. And there's only -- if you care about the dignity of work, there's only one person you have a rational 
 
 choice with this time, and that's Kamala Harris. Not a joke.
 
CROWD:  Kamala, Kamala, Kamala.
 
BIDEN:  Let me tell you about this woman. I know her. I trust her. Not a joke. I trust her. Number two, the first decision I made to nominate his 
 
 nominee in 2020 was selecting her as my vice president. And by the way, it was the single best decision I made as president united states of America.
 
I was watching something sent to me when they asked Barack. They said, Barack picked me as vice president because he knew I could be president. 
 
 Well, I know she'll be a good president. I know it. I've watched her with all the experts, foreign and domestic policy, would give us advice then we 
 
 sit alone in a room and she has a backbone like a ramrod.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
And she has the moral compass of a saint. This woman knows what she's doing. Folks, I promise you, if you elect Kamala Harris as president, it'll 
 
 be the best decision you will have ever made.
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  Kamala, means as I do, unions are the spine of this economy, should be historic pro-union president. So, folks, we got one more job to do 
 
 together. Let me ask you. Are you ready to fight?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  Are you ready to win?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  Are you ready to let Kamala Harris, our next president of the United States of America?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  And in the process, are you ready to make Donald Trump a loser again?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
BIDEN:  I've never been more optimistic about America. We have to remember who we are. We're the United States of America. There's nothing, nothing, I 
 
 mean this from the bottom of my heart, there's nothing beyond our capacity, nothing, when we do it together. And that means elect my friend, our great 
 
 vice president, the president of the United States, Kamala Harris.
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE:  Good afternoon, Pittsburgh. Thank you, Joe.
 
CROWD:  Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Joe.
 
HARRIS:  It is good to be in the House of Labor. And it is good to be back at IBEW Local 5. And can we please give it up again for our president, Joe 
 
 Biden.
 
Now, I don't have to tell the brothers and sisters of labor that you really get to know somebody when you're in the middle of a fight. When times are 
 
 hard. When the forces are mighty. When people don't believe something can get done and they have a thousand excuses for why it can't get done. And I 
 
 have spent more time with this extraordinary human being, when the cameras were not in the room, when the stakes were high, when the heat was intense, 
 
 and Joe Biden has always stood with the workers of America and labor unions of America. Always, always.
 
I've been with him, when he'll bring folks into the Oval Office. And you know how Joe can get sometimes. He doesn't spare words. It's good that 
 
 sometimes the cameras are not in the room when he has those conversations. Because the thing about the Joe Biden I know, and I know you know, because 
 
 he has been a friend of labor for so long, for his whole life, Joe Biden can be quite impatient. And that's a good thing for that kind of leader. 
 
 Quite impatient.
 
And I say to all of the friends here, the press that's in the room, history will show what we here know. Joe Biden has been one of the most 
 
 transformative presidents in the United States that we have ever witness. And it comes from his heart.
 
And, you know, Joe and I talk a lot about the fact that we are so proud to be the most pro-union administration in America's history.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
And as we know, Joe's still got a lot of work to do. So, let's also understand that. So, I want to thank all the incredible leaders who are 
 
 here today, including the Governor Shapiro, Lieutenant Governor Davis, Senator Casey, who we will re-elect this November. Mayor Gainey. President 
 
 Shuler. President Cooper. All the leaders of labor who are here, all the union members who are here.
 
So, I'll just get right to a few points. I love Labor Day. I love Celebrating Labor Day. And Pittsburgh, of course, is a cradle of the 
 
 American labor movement. It is the birthplace of the AFL. Headquarters of the Steelworkers, home to Firefighters Local 1. And, of course, the 
 
 historic IBEW Local 5.
 
For more than 150 years, the brothers and sisters of labor have helped lead the fight for fair pay, better benefits, and safe working conditions. And 
 
 every person in our nation has benefited from that work. You know, everywhere I go, I tell people, you may not be a union member, but you 
 
 better thank unions for that five-day work week. Thank unions for sick leave. Thank unions for paid family leave. Thank unions for your vacation 
 
 times.
 
Because when union wages go up, everybody's wages go up. When union workplaces are safer, all workplaces are safer. When unions are strong, 
 
 America is strong.
 
And we are clear, not only has Pittsburgh shaped the history of America's labor movement, today, you are also shaping its future in 2021 with my dear 
 
 friend, the secretary, Marty Walsh, who the president appointed to be secretary of labor, he and I hosted a meeting right here in this local, and 
 
 it was part of the White House Labor Task Force that I lead.
 
That day, we met with a group of computer programmers who were working to form a union. One month later, they signed their contract and became the 
 
 first, one of the first, technology unions in our nation, standing on the shoulder of all those who have been here and fought the good fight.
 
So, Pittsburgh, I remind us of that, to say together, we are fighting to build an economy that works for all working people.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That's right.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes.
 
HARRIS:  And that has always been the vision of the labor movement. And that is the vision of our campaign. You know, in this election, there are 
 
 two very different visions for our nation. One, ours, focused on the future. The other, focused on the past. We fight for the future. We fight 
 
 for a future of dignity, respect, and opportunity for all people.
 
We fight knowing it's some backward thinking for those folks who have been suggesting for years that the measure of the strength of a leader is based 
 
 on who you beat down. You know, that's the stuff they're pushing. That the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat down, when we 
 
 know the true measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you lift up. Who you lift up.
 
Do you fight for these? Do you fight for families? Do you fight for those who must be seen and heard and deserve the dignity that comes with hard 
 
 work? That's what we fight for. And when you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for.
 
So, we're 64 days out from this election. Ballots in Pennsylvania will start dropping in 14 days. 14 days.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
And this election is, as much as anything else, a fight for the promise of America. The promise of America. We love our country. We love our country. 
 
 And we know it is one of the highest forms of patriotism, to fight for the ideals of our country. And that's what this election is about. And about 
 
 the promise of America. And I don't need to tell unions what the promise looks like. It's what you do every day.
 
But as we fight to move forward, Donald Trump is trying to pull us backward. Including back to a time before workers had the freedom to 
 
 organize.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He's going to jail.
 
HARRIS:  Well, the courts will handle that and we will handle November. How about that? We'll handle November. Let the courts handle that other thing. 
 
 But we're not done.
 
CROWD:  We're not going back. We're not going back. We're not going back. 
 
HARRIS:  We're not going back. And one of the ways we're going to guarantee we don't go back is that we remember, right, it is important to remember 
 
 what that was and what it is. Remember, as president, Donald Trump blocked overtime benefits for millions of workers. He opposed efforts to raise the 
 
 minimum wage. As the president said, said he appointed union busters to the National Labor Relations Board. And don't forget, he supported so-called 
 
 right to work laws.
 
And if Donald Trump were to be re-elected, he intends to give more tax cuts to billionaires and big corporations. He intends to cut Social Security and 
 
 Medicare. He wants to impose what, in effect, would be a national sales tax, I call it the Trump national sales tax, on everyday products and basic 
 
 necessities that would cost a typical American family, the economists have said this, almost $4,000 a year.
 
He intends to repeal the Affordable Care Act and take us back to what we remember, because it wasn't that long ago, was a time when insurance 
 
 companies could deny people with preexisting conditions. You remember what that was? Children with asthma, breast cancer survivors, grandparents with 
 
 diabetes. Well, look, America has tried those failed policies before and we are not going back. We are not going back.
 
CROWD:  We're not going back. We're not going back. We're not going back.
 
HARRIS:  And instead, we fight for a future where no person has to go broke just because they get sick. And so, building on the work of President Joe 
 
 Biden and I and the work we have done in the White House, we will continue to strengthen the Affordable Care Act and make prescription drugs 
 
 affordable for all Americans.
 
We fight for a future where every worker has the freedom to organize and we will pass the PRO Act and end union busting once and for all and Bob Casey 
 
 will help us do that.
 
We see and know and fight for a future where every person has the opportunity not just to get by but to get ahead. And so, we will continue 
 
 to build what I call an opportunity economy so that every American has an opportunity to buy a home, or start a business, or build intergenerational 
 
 wealth, and have a future that matches their dreams and ambitions and aspirations, because, of course, that's the nature of who we are as 
 
 Americans.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
We have dreams. We can see what is possible unburdened by what has been. We have aspirations. We have ambitions. And the system that is a good system 
 
 is one that supports that and allows people the opportunity to go where they can see and imagine themselves to be. That's what I'm talking about 
 
 when I talk about an opportunity economy. We fight for a future where every senior can retire with dignity. And so, we will continue to defend Social 
 
 Security and Medicare and pensions, and pensions, and pensions.
 
And we will continue to strengthen America's manufacturing sector. And on that point, the president mentioned it, U.S. Steel is an historic American 
 
 company. And it is vital for our nation to maintain strong American steel companies. And I couldn't agree more with President Biden. U.S. Steel 
 
 should remain American-owned and American operated. And I will always have the back of America steel workers. And all of America's workers.
 
So, friends, 64 days until the most election of our lives. And probably one of the most important in the life of our nation. Truly. And we know this is 
 
 going to be a tight race to the very end. It's going to be a tight race to the very end. So, let's not pay too much attention to those polls, because 
 
 as unions and labor knows best, we know what it's like to be the underdog. And we are the underdog in this race. And we have some hard work then ahead 
 
 of us.
 
But here's the beauty of us in this room, we like hard work. Hard work is good work. Hard work is joyful work. And so, in this fight I will continue 
 
 to count on the strength, the determination, and the hard work of the leaders in this room to knock on doors, to get folks to the polls, and 
 
 bluntly put, because the people in here do it, to help us win Pennsylvania.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That's right.
 
HARRIS:  So, today I ask, are you ready to make your voices heard?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
HARRIS:  Do we believe in freedom?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
HARRIS:  Do we believe in opportunity?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
HARRIS:  Do we believe in the promise of America?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
HARRIS:  And are we ready to fight for it?
 
CROWD:  Yes.
 
HARRIS:  And when we fight, we win.
 
CROWD:  We win.
 
HARRIS:  God bless you. God bless America.
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN ANCHOR:  Vice President Kamala Harris appearing in Pittsburgh there alongside U.S. President Joe Biden speaking at a campaign 
 
 event, clearly targeting union workers. This is the first time that both of them have actually appeared together at a campaign event. President Biden 
 
 has long said that he has the most pro-labor union policies in American history. Kamala Harris has also said that she supports all of Biden's 
 
 policies in this area. And she has also been gaining a lot of support from labor unions as well.
 
All right. We'll have much more "First Move" after the short break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
ASHER:  Right now, to anger in Israel after the Israeli military recovered the bodies of six hostages over the weekend. The nation has been rocked by 
 
 large protests and a general strike. Demonstrators are demanding a deal that would bring Israeli hostages' home from Gaza alive. You're seeing 
 
 video of protesters right near the Israeli prime minister's private residence.
 
And just a short while ago, Israeli American Hersh Golberg-Polin was one of those who killed. His mother Rachel had this heartbreaking message during 
 
 his funeral.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
RACHEL GOLBERG-POLIN, MOTHER OF HERSH GOLBERG-POLIN:  If there was something we could have done to save you and we didn't think of it, I beg 
 
 your forgiveness. We tried so very hard, so deeply and desperately. I'm sorry. Now, my Hersh, I ask for your help. As we transform our hope into 
 
 grief in this new unknown brand of pain.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  And some protesters have accused Prime Minister Netanyahu of bowing to far-right politicians who refuse to make a deal. Here's what he said 
 
 just a few hours ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  I'm asking for your forgiveness that we didn't manage to bring them back alive. 
 
 We're very close, but we couldn't make it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  Jeremy Diamond joins is live now from Tel Aviv. Jeremy, the fact that we're seeing Hamas essentially being willing to murder Israeli 
 
 hostages clearly as some kind of negotiation strategy. Obviously, that does mean that the hostages that are there in Gaza are an imminent danger. We're 
 
 seeing these mass protests. What changes in Israel going forward, because the prime minister is under a lot of pressure right now?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  There's no doubt about it. And the actions that we have seen over the course of the last 24 hours with 
 
 protesters across Israel, not only in Tel Aviv, but really across the country, demanding action, what we have seen from them, yes, there is 
 
 anger, there is grief, despair, anxiety over the fate of the hostages, so many emotions. But above all, what we heard was a call to action, demanding 
 
 that this Israeli government change its policy and reprioritize reaching a hostage deal to bring back the remaining hostages from Gaza.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Outrage in the streets of Tel Aviv. For the second night in a row, tens of thousands raising their voices, demanding Prime 
 
 Minister Benjamin Netanyahu strike a deal to bring home the hostages alive.
 
This outpouring of grief, anger, and frustration prompted by the deaths of six Israeli hostages whose bodies were recovered over the weekend. Hamas 
 
 executed them hours before Israeli troops discovered the tunnel where they were being held. But to many here, their deaths are a grisly reminder of 
 
 the Israeli government's failure.
 
MIMI ZEMAH, PROTESTER:  The day before they were alive, we saw their names on the deal that could have been signed. Three names were on that deal. And 
 
 they're not here.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
GIL DICKMANN, RELATIVE OF HOSTAGE:  We know that Hamas has agreed to a deal at some point and Israel was the one putting on more and more terms and 
 
 actually postponing the deal. And right now, we know the decisions that our prime minister, Netanyahu, has made, made it impossible for Carmel and 
 
 other hostages to return and put their lives in great danger, and that's what killed them.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Netanyahu, meanwhile, doubling down on a core Israeli demand that has been a sticking point in negotiations and blaming 
 
 Hamas.
 
NETANYAHU (through translator):  The evil axis needs the Philadelphi Corridor. And for that reason, we must keep control of the Philadelphi 
 
 Corridor. This is why Hamas insisted we are not going to be there and this is why I insist that we are going to be there.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  In Israel, the pressure is building on Netanyahu. Schools closed early, flights delayed, and buses disrupted as the largest 
 
 union went on strike Monday for the first time since October 7th. And in the U.S., more pressure.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Do you think it's time for Prime Minister Netanyahu to do more on this issue? Do you think he's doing enough?
 
BIDEN:  No.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  For the family of 23-year-old Israeli-American Hersh Goldberg-Polin, grief is now taking center stage.
 
R. GOLDBERG-POLIN:  I will love you and I will miss you every single day for the rest of my life. But you're right here. I know you're right here. I 
 
 just have to teach myself how to feel you in a different way.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  And hope that this moment will be different.
 
JON GOLDBERG-POLIN, FATHER OF HERSH GOLDBERG-POLIN:  For 330 days, mama and I sought the proverbial stone that we could turn over to save you. Maybe, 
 
 just maybe, your death is the stone, the fuel that will bring home the remaining 101 hostages.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  That his son's death will not be in vain.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIAMOND (on camera):  And that hope that we heard from Hersh's father, that his death and the death of these five other hostages might be a catalyst 
 
 for a deal, a hostage deal to see the release of the remaining hostages, it really has nowhere to go, despite the fact that I heard that very same hope 
 
 in the voices of so many protesters in the streets of Tel Aviv today.
 
After that, the Israeli prime minister emerging, doubling down on what has become the key sticking point in these negotiations, that is Israeli troops 
 
 remaining on that Philadelphi Corridor along the Egypt-Gaza border. And Hamas is insisting on Israeli troops withdrawing from that very same area. 
 
 And so, they are deadlocked.
 
And in addition to that, we are also now seeing Hamas warning that additional efforts to free the hostages through military means, like the 
 
 rescue that we saw very recently of an Israeli hostage in Gaza, that will result in hostages returning in coffins, a very clear warning as Hamas' Al-
 
 Qassam brigades admits tonight that it was responsible for executing those six hostages.
 
Despite that, however, the protesters are not losing hope yet, the families of these hostages calling for another day of protests. Tomorrow. Zain.
 
ASHER:  Yes. And sadly, we heard nothing in that press conference from Netanyahu to really give the family members of hostages hope. There was 
 
 nothing there to really reassure them. As you pointed out, he instead doubled down and became even more defensive. All right. Jeremy Diamond, 
 
 live for us there. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Russia has unleashed a barrage of airstrikes on Ukraine today, on the day children returned to school. Four people were injured in the 
 
 missile and drone strikes, which hit the capital Kyiv, as well as Kharkiv and Sumy regions. The brutal response follows one of the largest ever drone 
 
 attacks on Russia over the weekend by Ukraine, which hit an oil refinery and a power station.
 
We'll be right back after the break with more.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
ASHER:  All right. Welcome back in today's Money Move. A subdued start to September trading on global markets. Wall Street was closed for the Labor 
 
 Day holiday, but Europe, back in action. Stocks there finished little chained. Shares of U.K. real estate listing firm Rightmove rose 27 percent 
 
 on news that a rival firm owned by Rupert Murdoch might make a takeover bid.
 
A rough start to the week in China. The Hang Seng and the Shanghai Composite both down more than 1 percent after Beijing released very weak 
 
 factory data.
 
All right. It's been described as a little America inside South Korea. 41,000 people live in the largest U.S. overseas military base in the world. 
 
 The inhabitants enjoy staples from home, but also Korean culture as well. CNN's Mike Valero had this inside look at Camp Humphreys in South Korea. 
 
 Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It's where rock concerts roar, donuts delight, Krispy Kreme on the conveyor belt, and where families 
 
 find new homes in Korea, like the cook family trading their lives in Cincinnati, Ohio, for Camp Humphreys, South Korea.
 
It's the Army's busiest airfield in Asia and the biggest U.S. military base overseas. Camp Humphreys is about 60 miles away from North Korea, driving 
 
 distance from the heavily fortified demilitarized zone the DMZ, which divides the Korean peninsula. More than 40,000 people call Camp Humphreys 
 
 home, including the Cooks.
 
They have not one, but two sets of twins. The youngest just eight months old. They came here because of Sergeant Terry Cook, an Army IT Specialist 
 
 here to support the critical U.S., South Korea military alliance.
 
TYRESE COOK, MILITARY SPOUCE:  We met in Cincinnati, Ohio.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  But in dad mode with his wife free, he says it's all about supporting his parental platoon.
 
SGT. TERRY COOK, U.S. ARMY:  I just really like to spend as much time maximize our time to get this whole unit I got here.
 
VALERIO:  I just looking good right now. You are literally super dad. You could do like pearls now.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  Camp Humphreys hosts, the only U.S. Army Division, which is partially made up of South Korean soldiers. It also serves as the 
 
 Headquarters of United Nations Command, the international military force designed to protect South Korea since the Korean War. Now nearly 75 years 
 
 later, the Korean peninsula's proximity to China and Russia makes South Korea a key linchpin in Northeast Asia Security for the U.S. government. 
 
 But the goal for families here is to immerse in Korean culture, which is especially important for Ri since she lived in Germany as a kid when her 
 
 dad was a sergeant in the Army.
 
TYRESE COOK:  Being able to provide my children with the same cultural experiences that I was given as a child is extremely important to me as a 
 
 mother.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  But for those looking for a slice of America, there's plenty. Texas Roadhouse beyond base golf course and one of the 
 
 biggest Fourth of July celebrations on this side of the world. Then there's this, a giant bakery, Wonder Bread, Burger Buns and delicious Donuts made 
 
 with the secret Krispy Kreme recipe, no less, for the schools, restaurants and grocery stores serving U.S. bases across South Korea. There's also the 
 
 feeling of belonging.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
Jubilation after years in the army, finally becoming American citizens. Non-commissioned Officer NCO Sergeant Vanessa Ramo was born in the 
 
 Philippines, supported here at her naturalization ceremony by her platoon.
 
PVT. RENEE MYATT, U.S. ARMY:  She's an amazing NCO. Very, very supportive to us. I know I'm sorry.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  As for becoming a U.S. citizen in Korea -- 
 
STAFF SGT. VANESSA RAMO, U.S. ARMY:  I didn't expect it to be here honestly. It's great to do it overseas somewhere, especially in Korea. I 
 
 love Korea.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  -- Ramos Platoon Leader himself naturalized in Philadelphia.
 
LT. JACOB HAN. U.S ARMY:  It just makes me really proud, because I'm a Korean American, meaning I can serve the people, like the country that I 
 
 was born in, but also the country that also gave me a lot of opportunities, which is the U.S.
 
VALERIO (voice-over):  A slice of America, inextricably part of the Korean tapestry, and for its newest residents, hardly far from home.
 
Mike Valerio, CNN Camp Humphreys, South Korea.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER:  All right. The Philippines is being drenched by a tropical storm. The center and north of the country being lashed by strong winds, heavy 
 
 rainfall as well. And there are fears the storm could actually become a typhoon as it moves towards China. CNN Meteorologist Chad Myers joins us 
 
 with the very latest. Chad.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  It is going to be a typhoon, without a doubt in my mind, maybe even equal to what would be a Category 3 or 
 
 Category 4 Atlantic hurricane. It'll still be, of course, called a typhoon.
 
Right now, only 64 kilometers per hour. But here's what it can do even as a tropical storm. Almost eight inches of rainfall in Manila still have this 
 
 Signal 2 to the north up in northern parts of Luzon. That's a wind event, but it's the rain that's been falling with this storm. Almost 300 
 
 millimeters in places. And look what happened to Manila Bay, with the wind blowing in from the west, all that water came right into the bay. It's not 
 
 supposed to be there, but those kids are. And those kids probably shouldn't be there either. But here's your power poles that came down in Manila.
 
So, there was some wind and it will get stronger. This is very warm water. Clearly, climate changing water here. We're about two to three degrees 
 
 centigrade Celsius warmer than we should be and we will see an additional 200 millimeters of rain in Manila just in the next 24 hours. But here's 
 
 where we go, 204 KPH, and still getting stronger at that point and making landfall probably close to Hainan.
 
Now, remember what happened to the Storm Shanshan, it was supposed to go due north and hit northern parts of Japan. It didn't do that. Models were 
 
 not doing a very good job. We'll have to see what the models do now because Hong Kong, you are almost in the cone. And then it could miss Hainan 
 
 altogether and go to the south and stay in warm water.
 
Big threat right now is the rain, but as the days go on, as 72 hours from right now, we get a storm that's 130 or 135 miles per hour, that will do 
 
 some damage. There are so many people in the way, whether it goes left or goes right. Zain.
 
ASHER:  All right. Chad Myers. Thank you for watching that closely. We appreciate it.
 
MYERS:  You're welcome.
 
ASHER:  All right. Coming up, I'll talk with a behavioral expert on the mindset required to build a successful business. We'll have more on that 
 
 after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
ASHER:  All right. Welcome back to "First Move." It is Labor Day here in the U.S., which has seen a surge in new business applications since the 
 
 pandemic. But building a business or a career can be challenging in the best of times. Inflation, unemployment and a tough job market are just some 
 
 of the headwinds facing workers.
 
So, what exactly can you do? My next guest helps her clients with the right mindset in terms of becoming an entrepreneur. Marisa Peer has coached CEOs 
 
 and Olympic athletes. She joins us live now from London, Marisa, good to see.
 
When you think about what it takes to become a successful entrepreneur, obviously, you need a fantastic business idea, you need demand, you need 
 
 the right sort of entrepreneurial environment, the right sort of macroeconomic environment as well. But talk to us about how important 
 
 mindset is when it comes to becoming a successful entrepreneur.
 
MARISA PEER, BEHAVIORAL EXPERT AND THERAPIST:  You know, mindset can be up to 80 percent of your success. You have to have that mindset, that 
 
 dedication that you're going to make it no matter what. You have to have what I call the bounce back factor. You have to be incredibly self-directed 
 
 and self-motivated in a world where so many of us work for ourselves and we don't have anyone to build us up and praise us. You really got to have the 
 
 skills of doing that.
 
It isn't enough just to have skills of speaking in a boardroom or understanding business, you have to have mindset skills of phenomenal self-
 
 belief, tremendous self-direction, incredible self-motivation -- a denial is a delay and to keep coming back, and you have to be prepared to do what 
 
 you really, really dislike. And that's a challenge for so many millennials who think, well, I don't have to do, I don't like to do. I just want to do 
 
 the bits I like. And you've got to be prepared to really, really work hard.
 
I think we've kind of lost the bit of incredible application because we're so into manifesting and meditating and using vision boards and we forgot 
 
 that actually you got to work incredibly hard as well, a lot, all the time.
 
ASHER:  You know, I loved what you said about being willing to do things that you don't want to do. I mean, you think about, you know, actors, for 
 
 example, obviously being on stage or on set with a film crew is incredibly glamorous. But it does take spending months learning lines, which is very 
 
 unglamorous. And to be a successful actor, of course, you have to be able to do both.
 
I do want to talk to you about rejection, right? Because for a lot of entrepreneurs, rejection is a really tough pill to swallow. Some 
 
 entrepreneurs might get rejected once and then decide to throw in the towel. Other people -- and this is what I'm really interested in, other 
 
 people decide, well, you know what? It doesn't matter if I get rejected 50, 60, 70 times, I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep pitching my idea, 
 
 and those are the ones that often end up more likely to make it. Where does that sort of resilient mindset come from, Marisa?
 
PEER:  You know, you're right. We've seen people rejected off "Shark Tank," humiliated and kicked off "Shark Tank" who have come back with an amazing 
 
 idea and become millionaires, billionaires from it. So, it's -- you have to have an I'll show you attitude to see a rejection as like, not today, not 
 
 right now, not exactly as it is, or not for us, but for someone else.
 
So, when you hear a no, people who come back having to hear, well, no for us or no at the moment or no in the current state. And so, they go back and 
 
 think, well, no, it just needs tweaking. It needs change. It needs to go to someone else. So, it's that ability to not hear a no, but to hear a no at 
 
 this current moment, in that current state.
 
But if you change your product, someone else will like it. And we know, we -- so many success stories have come out of no's, because you have to have 
 
 the, I'll show you, and also to not hear they're not rejecting you, they may be rejecting a product you've created, or a part of a product, but 
 
 they're not actually rejecting, not simply they're going, we don't like you, they're just rejecting something you're offering them that isn't quite 
 
 right for them.
 
It's the ability to always reframe a note, to always reframe that we don't like your product, or reframe we don't like you, when you can reframe it, 
 
 you'll come back again and again because you have that bounce back factor. And that's very important.
 
ASHER:  And just in terms of the ability to take risks, I mean, that is obviously key to being an entrepreneur. And for a lot of people, there is 
 
 safety in keeping your day job. There is safety in that biweekly direct deposit. But for a lot of people, just to be able to put everything on the 
 
 line and saying, I'm going to risk it all, I'm going to follow my dreams and I'm going to become an entrepreneur, and it doesn't matter if I fail, 
 
 I'm going to try. Where does that ability to take risks come from, Marisa?
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
PEER:  You know, you said something very interesting, the only way to fail is failing to try. Failing to try is like trying to fail. So, for some 
 
 people, the only risk is not to take the risk. You have to think, do I want this so much? Am I prepared to bet everything on it? And in life, we have 
 
 to take risks. We've never gotten a plane if we wouldn't take risks. So, you can't be risk averse and be successful. You have to be willing to fail. 
 
 You have to be willing to be rejected. You have to be willing to make a product that someone doesn't like.
 
And you have to be willing to risk your money, because if you can't do that, you're not really cut out to be an entrepreneur because they are 
 
 willing to have such vision and such self-belief that they will put their house on their line because they have that phenomenal self-belief.
 
I mean, if you can't invest in yourself, why would you expect someone else to invest in your product? If you're not willing to invest in it too. And 
 
 for investors, when you're willing to put your own money in, you're more interesting now because it shows again, that phenomenal self-belief.
 
ASHER:  Marisa, we have to leave it there. We are out of time. Very good to have you on the program. We appreciate it.
 
All right. That wraps up the show. "First Move." Appreciate you joining us. Thank you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END