Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: J.D. Vance Slams Tim Walz's Military Record; Taylor Swift's Vienna Shows Canceled Over Alleged Terror Plot; Police Hurl Tear Gas At Protesters In Kenya; Muhammad Yunus Sworn In As Leader Of Interim Government; Georgia Panel Reacts To Historic Nomination Of Harris; Melting Glacier Causes Destructive Flooding In Alaska; Fastest Man Alive Is Back On The Track In 200M Final; Aired 12-1p ET

Aired August 08, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:33]
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN HOST: Live from New York, I'm Omar Jimenez. Zain and Bianna are off today. And you're watching ONE WORLD.
 
The U.S. presidential candidate tab just 90 more days to generate enough excitement to bring people out to the polls. Kamala Harris and her new vice 
 
 presidential running mate, Tim Walz are hitting the key battleground states of Michigan and Arizona today.
 
The pair were met by exuberant crowds on Wednesday in Michigan and -- in Wisconsin and Michigan when some in the crowd, though heckled the vice 
 
 president, she fought back.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, UNITED STATES DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: You know what? If you want Donald Trump to 
 
 win, then say that, otherwise I'm speaking.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Meanwhile, "The Washington Post" reports that Donald Trump is upset by the momentum and media coverage the new Harris-Walz ticket is 
 
 getting.
 
And in about two hours, the former president will hold a news conference likely in attempt to steal some of that momentum back, but something you 
 
 will monitor.
 
The former president took Wednesday off from the campaign trail, but his running mate, J.D. Vance, crisscross the Midwestern U.S., hitting some of 
 
 the same states that Kamala Harris' campaign was.
 
His latest strategy, attacking Tim Walz's military record with a controversial phrase.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), REPUBLICAN VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: He said we shouldn't allow weapons that I used in war to be on America's streets.
 
Well, I wonder, Tim Walz, when were you ever in war? When was this -- what was this weapon that you carried into war, given that you abandoned your 
 
 unit right before they went to Iraq, and he has not spent a day in a combat zone?
 
What bothers me about Tim Walz is the stolen valor garbage. Do not pretend to be something that you're not.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Alayna Treene joins us live from Washington now.
 
So, Alayna, can you just take us into this strategy here from the Trump and Vance campaign, which has heard Vance talking there, about attacking this 
 
 particular aspect of Walz's record?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Well, I think, first of all, this has just shown that the election cycle and the campaigns right now are entering this 
 
 new phase, which is that their attacks are becoming increasingly ugly and nasty as they look forward to this sprint ahead of November. And that's 
 
 kind of what is happening here.
 
Now, Vance's remarks, I mean, I just want to be very clear that both Walz and Vance are military veterans. They both serve their country. There's no 
 
 question about that.
 
What they're trying to question is his credibility and the sense that he never served combat, which he didn't. He was in the National Guard for 24 
 
 years. He did one deployment to Italy. Those efforts were to support the ongoing war in Iraq, but he actually resigned from the National Guard in 
 
 the months ahead of his unit actually deploying. And that's kind of what Vance was focusing on.
 
Now, Vance, for his part, did go to Iraq. He did deploy but -- did deploy there, but he did not serve in combat, he said.
 
But moving away from that, I do want to just, again, paint this big picture of what the strategy is, which I think your question is kind of trying to 
 
 put a finer point on. They are trying to figure out the best version of attacks here.
 
They have struggled ever since Joe Biden ended his campaign to find the best way to define Harris.
 
And now, I'm told in my conversation with Trump's senior advisors that they're really seeing Walz and that him being announced as Harris' running 
 
 mate as a new opportunity to try and define them together.
 
The goal is to paint them as radically liberal. They're trying to act like the Minnesota governor is pushing the ticket to the left. That is what 
 
 you're going to hear a lot of these attacks stemmed from, as well as trying to undermine his credibility and his character, just like you heard there 
 
 with Vance's criticism about Walz's military record.
 
Now, I do want to point your attention to this press conference that Trump is holding later today.
 
So you mentioned he was off the campaign trail on Wednesday. He's actually been off the campaign trail this entire week. The last time we saw him hold 
 
 a public event was on Saturday in Atlanta.
 
Instead, Vance has really been the one that the campaign has deployed to message against Harris and Walz.
 
Even as they are doing this Midwest swing, they started in Pennsylvania, then they went to Wisconsin and Michigan.
 
We saw Vance actually traveled to the exact same states, and in some of these cases, the exact same cities to try and draw that contrast.
 
Now, one thing I do think you're going to hear from Donald Trump himself today during this press conference is this larger attack that they have 
 
 been working on, which is to argue that Harris is not doing media interviews, and she's not taking questions from the press, which I will 
 
 argue is true. We have not seen Harris do that ever since she became the presumptive democratic nominee. And that's part of why he's holding this 
 
 today.
 <br>[12:05:10]
 
Part of it is, to your point, Omar, he does want to steal the media attention back. He has been definitely angered by the enthusiasm that 
 
 Harris has been able to sustain the momentum behind her.
 
You could kind of hear that last weekend when he was at his rally in Atlanta. He was, you know, criticizing the crowd size that Harris had 
 
 gotten. He even admitted on Fox and Friends yesterday that this enthusiasm has been hard for him.
 
Now, I actually do want to just quickly, I don't think we have this because Donald Trump just posted this on social media, but he did send recently a 
 
 series of posts on Truth -- on his Truth Social website where he said, quote, why won't Kamala speak in public without a teleprompter? Why no 
 
 press conferences for, he called her hashtag Kamala coward and taking questions from vice president and Democrat nominee -- as vice president and 
 
 the democratic nominee?
 
He goes on to attack her further in another post.
 
But, again, this is him really trying to point out that he's willing to come out and take questions arguing that she isn't.
 
We'll see whether or not that changes, but this is really where the campaign is going with these attacks.
 
So trying to needle her as well as Walz and do whatever they can to kind of, you know, throw sand in their opponents' faces, even as they're still 
 
 trying to figure out themselves, how do we define them?
 
Omar?
 
JIMENEZ: And we saw some of those same lines of attack with J.D. Vance yesterday asking where she was as he walked over -- 
 
TREENE: Right.
 
JIMENEZ: -- to her plane. And I think it was a little bit of a show for the cameras, but to sort of say that, oh, I'm looking for her to see why she 
 
 won't come over.
 
So we'll see how that plays out with Donald Trump later today.
 
Alayna Treene, really appreciate it.
 
All right. Meanwhile, in Austria, Taylor Swift fans are heartbroken after her Vienna concerts had to be canceled over a suspected terrorist plot.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(SINGING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: OK. Singing a Taylor Swift song there. A lot of sad Swifties, but one fan says, there is a strong feeling of togetherness, which is what 
 
 we're seeing some of here, despite all three shows being canceled.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So we're very upset, very disappointed, but we're just really happy that everyone's safe. And obviously, I mean, this is amazing. 
 
 This is really heartwarming and lovely. So we're trying to look at the bright side.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: And another fan like many traveled thousands of miles only to be greeted by disappointment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I found out the news last night that the concert was canceled. And, yes, all I could think about last night was sort of that 
 
 what if, you know, what could have happened. So, yes, I'm terribly disappointed. This was supposed to be such a fun event that we've been 
 
 looking forward to for so long.
 
And but at the same time, I'm just so thankful that we're safe and that we'll be able to go back to Canada.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Now, police say they foiled the planned attack, which had targeted the stadium where the pop star was set to perform starting tonight.
 
During a news conference earlier, Austrian officials said they have questioned three suspects, all of them teenagers. They also say they found 
 
 chemicals at the home of the main suspect.
 
I want to bring in CNN's chief international security correspondent Nick Paton Walsh live from London.
 
So, Nick, look, obviously we just played some sad fans. But there was a very serious plot at the center of this, according to authorities.
 
What were authorities looking at here? What was the risk?
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Yes. Look, I mean, we're a matter of hours, frankly, from these concerts getting underway, 
 
 when they made their arrests of a 19-year-old Austrian-born teenager, I should point out, who lived about an hour south of the venues where the 
 
 next three nights would have seen 65,000 every night attending the Swift concerts with tens of thousands, possibly in the periphery of the venue, 
 
 listening in, trying to sort of soak up the atmosphere.
 
Now, police say it was that periphery that the 19-year-old intended to attack. They found that his home, chemical precursors for bombs, knives, 
 
 detonators, 21,000 euros in fake cash, and also troublingly a blue police flashing light that they believe he might put on a vehicle in a bid to get 
 
 himself into that crowd more easily.
 
They believe he intended to launch a kind of suicide attack with explosives and knives against those in the periphery.
 
Now, also, arrested was a 17-year-old who believed have had some involvement in the plotting here. He is, said by police, to have recently 
 
 broken up with his girlfriend, really a sign, I think, of the sort of teen mentality they have to get into in trying to work out motivation here.
 
And also questioned a 15-year-old, although his involvement in this unclear, possibly he knew about it.
 
That's all they're looking for, three teenagers, radicalized online, through social media platforms where they seem to have got in contact with 
 
 ISIS sympathizers and indeed downloaded bomb instructions, part of a deeply troubling trend that European counterterrorism officials have seen 
 
 continent-wide over the past year or so.
 <br>[12:10:01]
 
In fact, the last nine months, one study shown that nearly two-thirds of the ISIS arrests have indeed been of teenagers in France, ahead of the 
 
 Olympics in Germany and in Austria too.
 
Just in May, they arrested a 14-year-old girl of a Montenegrin descent for plotting a knife and axe attack with ISIS propaganda also on their hard 
 
 drive.
 
So this attack, very close it seems to conception, quite advanced and almost as fair to say, sophisticated in the planning that we're seeing 
 
 despite those behind it being still in their teens.
 
But the decision, I think, by organizers is to cool off everything in its entirety, I think reflects the nature of how complex this threat is and how 
 
 close the attacks indeed were to it seems fruition.
 
Omar?
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes. Despite all of the playing that went in, it seems the risk was not worth it at this point.
 
Nick Paton Walsh, really appreciate the reporting.
 
World leaders are also keeping a close eye in the Middle East where Israel is bracing for expected retaliation from Iran and its allies. Two sources 
 
 tell CNN, Hezbollah looks increasingly to strike Israel regardless of what Tehran intends to do.
 
This comes as U.S. officials call for a de-escalation of tensions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW MILLER, SPOKESPERSON, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT: Look, this is obviously a very delicate time for the region. Tensions are high. We are in 
 
 the final stages, hopefully, of a ceasefire deal. And escalation has the potential to make every problem the region faces worse.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Now sources say Hezbollah and Iran-backed militant group is moving faster than Iran in its planning and an attack could happen within the 
 
 coming days.
 
Lebanon's health officials say it's equipped more than 15 government hospitals and the World Health Organization has delivered 32 tons of 
 
 medical supplies this week.
 
In Israel, as an attack threat looms, its ambulance service is taking no chances, stalking blood supplies in a fortified underground center.
 
Still to come on ONE WORLD.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think we are ready for a woman.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Absolutely.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think we are ready for a woman of color. I'm not sure we're ready for Kamala Harris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: CNN sits down with a group of women in the battleground state of Georgia to gauge their opinions on Kamala Harris.
 
Plus, police respond as anti-government protests erupt on the streets of Nairobi once again.
 
In a different group of protesters, get their calls for change answer, as a new interim government is sworn in in Bangladesh.
 
All that and more coming on.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:15:32]
 
JIMENEZ: We're following anger and unrest in Kenya, where earlier police used tear gas to clear the streets of Nairobi.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CHANTING AND PROTESTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Now, young demonstrators are calling for the mother of all protests today. They say they're angry over government corruption, the high 
 
 cost of living, and police brutality.
 
And they're demanding President William Ruto resign, even as he sworn a revamped cabinet in a bid to appease his critics.
 
CNN's Larry Madowo is live in Nairobi and has been following all of these protests since they began going back to a finance bill.
 
What's the situation like there now? And will this new cabinet including members of the opposition quell these protests?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In fact, Omar, this new cabinet has incensed people even more.
 
After public pressure, President Ruto was forced last month to essentially dissolve the cabinet, fire everybody in the cabinet. But then he 
 
 reappointed half of the same cabinet.
 
And the reason why Kenyans were angry in the first place is because they accused these senior government officials of corruption. About a third of 
 
 Kenya's budget is stolen by officials in government and so they feel slighted that President Ruto did not listen to them by reappointing half of 
 
 the cabinet which he swore in today.
 
They had called for this mother of all protests, but police made sure it didn't happen by violently dispersing people from the streets, as we saw 
 
 the use of flashbangs and tear gas and shooting in the air whenever three or four people came together.
 
Police quickly made sure that they were not on the streets, Omar. So this mother of all protests did not happen.
 
JIMENEZ: Well, and you mentioned the sort of violent response from police there. And look, you yourself, you got caught in the middle between 
 
 authorities and protesters here. I want to show our viewers just a little bit of what happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: It's not clear why the police are obscuring their plates. That's one of the reasons why the protesters are so angry that police were not 
 
 uniformed, were hooded, covering their entities, masking their plates, are on the streets applying excessive force on largely peaceful protesters .
 
(GUNSHOTS)
 
And then as we were just speaking, as they're leaving, the fire even more.
 
(GUNSHOTS)
 
(SCREAMS)
 
That was aimed directly at me. He's aiming directly at me. He's aiming directly at me.
 
(SCREAMS)
 
He's shooting directly at me. Why are you shooting at me? Why are you shooting at me? Why are you shooting at me?
 
There's a flashbang there. Watch out. He is still shooting.
 
The police shot at least two tear gas canisters directly at me while I was looking at them. At close range.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: So, Larry, I mean you seem OK, but can you tell us how you're doing now? But also more about what happened? Did you ever get an 
 
 explanation?
 
MADOWO: I'll live, Omar. I'm fine. Unfortunately, this is not my first rodeo. We've been here before.
 
And we were just talking about before that happened the fact the police had masked their plates. That means they can evade accountability. You can't 
 
 know which police department they're from or what's the chain of command for them.
 
And so we were just talking about that. In the same truck you see moves ahead of us, parks then, then directly aims at us.
 
And we were not even the only journalists targeted today. A lot of other media colleagues complained about police throwing tear gas at them, 
 
 targeting them with flashbangs, shooting in the air very close to them. These are all dangerous at close range.
 
This can cause a lot of -- a lot of hurt or even sometimes can lead to death.
 
So CNN has reached out to the police to understand exactly what happened here if journalists were targeted. We have not heard back yet, but this is 
 
 actually extraordinary.
 
Because just a week ago, Kenyan journalists went on the streets to protest against police brutality against targeting of journalists, and yet, even 
 
 after police promised to make sure that peaceful protesters protest and that they respect the media and the freedom to do our job, they don't 
 
 appear to be following that.
 
JIMENEZ: And you all are on the ground documenting all of what's been happening over the course these protests as you and your team have been 
 
 heavily involved in documenting as well.
 
Larry Madowo in Nairobi, thank you so much.
 <br>[12:20:59]
 
JIMENEZ: All right. Meanwhile, Bangladesh has a new interim leader, Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Muhammad Yunus, was sworn into office a short time 
 
 ago, following weeks of protests and deadly government crackdowns.
 
Now, Yunus is an 84-year-old banker who has awarded the Peace Prize for his pioneering work in microfinance. Student demonstrators had called for him 
 
 to temporarily lead the nation.
 
So joining us to discuss is Ali Riaz, a distinguished professor of political science at Illinois State University. He's also president of the 
 
 American Institute of Bangladesh Studies. Thank you for being here.
 
I want to start with the nature of the movement itself because it's being dubbed the first successful Gen Z led revolution.
 
Can you tell us the significance of that? And what stood out to you most from what we have seen result from the protest movement so far?
 
ALI RIAZ, PRESIDENT, PRESIDENT, AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF BANGLADESH STUDIES: The most important thing that has emerged out of this protest, which was 
 
 spearheaded by the students, that it is a grassroots movement, year-split, and it was never steered by any political party.
 
So this Gen Z generation, they have come up with a new kind of political idea and they have reached out to the people, and they have been able to 
 
 mobilize people in support of them.
 
Not only in support of them in terms of their own demands, but they could connect it to the popular, you know, aspirations and grievances. So they 
 
 have become the new representative in a new political landscape.
 
The other political parties are there, but this is the significant shift in the Bangladesh political landscape.
 
JIMENEZ: And, look, the -- as we mentioned, Muhammad Yunus being sworn in today to lead an interim government.
 
Do you have confidence he'll be able to lead the country out of this period of, I guess, you could call it, instability successfully?
 
RIAZ: I hope so and I have confidence on him because he has this standing, he has the acceptability, and he has the legitimacy to lead this. 
 
 Legitimacy in the sense that it is a popular uprising.
 
So he has the -- you know, in a sense, he has the mandate. But most importantly that his ideas, he has always been facing at first situation 
 
 and he has lifted nation on many occasions through his ideas.
 
So I'm hoping that this is an opportunity, not only for him, this is an opportunity for the nation and he'll be able to guide his colleagues who 
 
 are in the interim government and show us a path that Bangladesh can actually come out of this instability.
 
JIMENEZ: Mm-hmm. I want to step -- take a step back for our viewers really quickly because, look, students began protesting on July 1st. They were 
 
 demanding an end to the government's quota system, which reserves 30 percent of civil service posts for relatives of veterans who fought in 
 
 Bangladesh's war of independence from Pakistan.
 
Now, those roles were linked to job security and higher pay and driving the anger was high unemployment levels in the country overall, especially among 
 
 young people, some of the same ones who were leading these protests.
 
And I say all of that because my question is, all of those issues are systemic, deep-rooted issues. 
 
How difficult is it going to be for Muhammad Yunus to satisfy some of the changes that have been asked for there?
 
RIAZ: It would be challenging. It's a daunting task because it's a structural, as you have mentioned.
 
It is not simply deposing an autocrat and bringing someone else. The students who, when they're proposed and when they advance their ideas, when 
 
 they advance their demands, one of the important things that they have said is that they want to change the structural elements which creates the 
 
 autocracy.
 
But they also have raised that the discrimination within the job and the lack of opportunity in the economy, which is basically a result of the 
 
 longstanding corruption of the previous regime.
 
All these things comes together and they have the popular support because people want it.
 
So is it easy task? Absolutely not. Is it a difficult task? Definitely a difficult task. But this cannot be avoided any further. You cannot suspend 
 
 it for long because it has created, just steered an expectation that the nation needs to take forward.
 
And this is the leadership I hope they will be able to, especially Professor Muhammad Yunus. 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. As you mentioned, look, it's not going to be easy, but it should not dispel someone from trying. And we'll see the beginning of that 
 
 process. That interim government begins today, essentially.
 
Ali Riaz, thank you so much for your perspective.
 
RIAZ: Thank you.
 
JIMENEZ: Meanwhile, anti-racism protesters appear to have prevented a new round of riots in the U.K.
 
Thousands of people fanned out across more than a dozen cities on Wednesday to stand up to far-right rioters and police beefed up their presence as 
 
 well. It's still not clear if this marks a turning point after days of violence.
 
But far-right plans to target immigration and visa processing centers on Wednesday were apparently thwarted by counter protests.
 
We're going to have much more on these stories and so much more on the other side of a quick break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:29]
 
JIMENEZ: Welcome back to ONE WORLD. I'm Omar Jimenez.
 
Let's turn now to the race for the White House. CNN traveled to the battleground state of Georgia to speak with a group of women in Macon who 
 
 started the 2024 presidential election cycle as undecided voters.
 
CNN's Randi Kaye asked them how Kamala Harris' entrance into the race has impacted their choice for president. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What is this piece called?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This one is goddess of motherhood and the 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ocean.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Ocean.
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Show of hands here. Who in the group is glad that Joe Biden dropped out of the race? All of you. Kamala 
 
 Harris has raised $200 million in one week.
 
How do you feel about that? Has that energized any of you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: To see young people so energized and registering to vote in huge numbers, it feels very similar to the energy that I felt when 
 
 President Obama was running.
 
BRITNEY DANIELS, GEORGIA VOTER: I feel the same way.
 
KAYE HLAVATY, GEORGIA VOTER: But I wonder, is this a honeymoon period? Is it going to stay like this?
 
EMILY AMOS, UNDECIDED GEORGIA VOTER: I think it's going to get, you know, crazy. Like Kamala crazy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As a fourth grader wondering if a black woman would ever be president, and then now, it's something that could actually happen, 
 
 is like realizing a dream.
 
HLAVATY: I think we are ready for a woman.
 
AMOS: Absolutely.
 
HLAVATY: I think we're ready for a woman of color. I'm not sure we're ready for Kamala Harris.
 
KAY BELIVEAU, GEORGIA VOTER: I don't look at their skin color or if it's a man or woman, I want a qualified candidate.
 
And based on what she has or hasn't done so far, I'm not seeing a very qualified candidate.
 <br>[12:30:06]
 
KAYE: Some Republicans have been referring to Kamala Harris as a DEI hire.
 
AMOS: It's an easy dig. You know, it's like you can always go for the jugular instead of like you guys stated earlier what she's done, what her 
 
 record has shown and what she stands for. I think it's just an easy dig.
 
DANIELS: I think it is amazing to have her at the top. If you look at her political career versus Trump, she tromps him.
 
KAYE: The fact that Kamala Harris is a big supporter of reproductive rights, is that a big draw for you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Huge plus.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For me, having body autonomy is this we all should have, the right to choose what we do with our own bodies.
 
KAYE: How many of you think Kamala Harris can beat Donald Trump?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, yes, I do.
 
AMOS: I'm halfway.
 
HLAVATY: When it was announced that this was happening, I'm like, oh, darn. What now?
 
BELIVEAU: It's going to be close. I really feel like it's going to be extremely close. It could go either way.
 
AMOS: And if they can get our young black males out to vote, that's going to be, to me, the deciding factor which pushes her over the edge.
 
HLAVATY: Because I thought, OK. I thought we were going to have a Republican, but now, yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. It's a real fight now.
 
KAYE: Do you think it's fair that the Republicans blame Harris for the problem at the border, in part? The border crossings have dropped to a 
 
 three-year low in June.
 
HLAVATY: I don't know whether it's Harris' fault or whose fault it is, but it has definitely increased in the type of people who are crossing into the 
 
 border and the damage that they're doing to our country.
 
KAYE: Harris has become more in line with some of Biden's positions on certain issues in some cases even reversing where she stood in the 2020 
 
 race now. How do you feel about the evolving positions?
 
BELIVEAU: Is that for real or she's just saying what she thinks people want to hear? Are they rebranding Kamala to be more palatable?
 
DANIELS: I believe it. I think we've had -- her having served as VP for the past four years, things have changed.
 
KAYE: What makes you nervous about Trump running against Kamala Harris?
 
HLAVATY: Because Kamala is a great spokesman. She's a debater. She's going to appeal to a wide range of Americans, regardless of color or even female.
 
I just think people are going to like her.
 
AMOS: She's likeable.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She's very likeable.
 
AMOS: Very likable.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mm-hmm.
 
BELIVEAU: Trump, he's his own worst enemy with his ego, huge ego, and his huge mouth to match.
 
KAYE: Let's talk about the presidential debate that's supposed to happen in September. Kamala Harris is calling him out on this saying that he's 
 
 backtracking.
 
Do you feel like Trump is sort of running from this second debate a bit?
 
AMOS: Absolutely.
 
DANIELS: I think he's scared because he actually will have to come with some real -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Facts.
 
DANIELS: Facts and information.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He would have to prepare a little bit more to debate. Plus, she's argued in court.
 
AMOS: I think women from all across the board are going to really be paying attention to this debate because it's like, OK. We know your track record 
 
 with a woman.
 
BELIVEAU: If he were well prepared, he would -- he would do well, but it's going to be tough. Because, you know, she's smooth.
 
AMOS: She really is.
 
KAYE: Last time we spoke, two of you Kaye and Kay had decided, you said that you had -- you decided on a candidate and it was Donald Trump. Are you 
 
 still firm on that?
 
HLAVATY: I'm not still firm. I would love the Republican Party to win. But I think Kamala Harris has so much to offer that it could go either way. And 
 
 Trump has accomplished a lot in the four years.
 
What Kamala has to convince me of is if those things will return.
 
KAYE: Are you still firm on Donald Trump?
 
BELIVEAU: Yes. And I mean it's not Trump so much as the Republicans. And I'm not convinced that Kamala is the one.
 
I feel like she's got a lot of Biden baggage that's following her.
 
KAYE: I know the three of you, last time we talked, were still undecided. Are you decided now? 
 
DANIELS: I am.
 
KAYE: You are. You believe you're going to go Harris.
 
DANIELS: She speaks more to me. She's more likable, for one, younger. I like that, because she's going to be able to relate more to younger people.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Definitely voting for Kamala Harris.
 
AMOS: I'm definitely leaning more towards Harris. Obviously, in the honest truth is because she's a woman. And I think the country is ready for a 
 
 woman.
 
And it's not because she's black, it's because she's a female. And I personally just think a female can actually do the job better.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Time now for The Exchange. Joining me is David Hogg, a 2018 Parkland High School shooting survivor, but also a March for Our Lives 
 
 founder, and president of Leaders We Deserve. David's here to discuss America's young voters. And which candidates they seem to favor.
 
All right. A lot to talk about here.
 
I want to start with, one, you recently tweeted out a video of the crowd waiting for Kamala Harris and Tim Walz in Detroit saying, this is going to 
 
 make Trump so insecure.
 
I'm just curious from your perspective, and we're showing some of those images now.
 
From an organizing perspective, what has changed since Joe Biden was at the top of the ticket to now?
 <br>[12:35:59]
 
DAVID HOGG, 2018 PARKLAND HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING SURVIVOR: I think fundamentally what's changed is we have a candidate that's out there that 
 
 people are really, really excited about, along with a vice president to match in Governor Walz.
 
And, you know, it's funny that I posted that. Because I posted something similar yesterday and we just saw Trump post on the Truth Social about how 
 
 angry he was and how the media I think he said was lying about the size of Kamala's crowds.
 
So meanwhile, Donald Trump is out hiding somewhere and he's clearly not on the campaign trail. And J.D. Vance is, you know, not helping the whole 
 
 weird allegations by following around Kamala Harris and a lot of these swing states, even approaching Air Force 2 on the tarmac yesterday.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. That was in front of media, even though just based on how his setup. Media couldn't follow him to go over there, so he came right back.
 
Is there a particular aspect of Kamala Harris' campaign that you think is going to energize younger voters, maybe more so than other demographics?
 
HOGG: You know, I think part of what it is, is young voters, we have been waiting -- you know, most people that are between the ages of 18 and 29, 
 
 they have really never had an election in their life where they have been truly voting for somebody.
 
For the most part, we've been voting against people. We've been voting for people that a lot of the time young people felt are frankly lesser of two 
 
 evils, right, where they want it. They haven't really been excited about somebody.
 
And for the first time in my life, do I -- this is the first time where I feel like young people are really, really, really excited to vote for 
 
 somebody and don't feel like they're just picking from the lesser two evils, honestly speaking.
 
And it's incredible because we're seeing young people out there, not only voting for someone, but voting clearly against them too. So we have both 
 
 negative polarization and positive.
 
And part of what I'm doing right now is trying to make sure that those young voters, not only see at the top of the ticket, somebody that 
 
 represents them, but also down ballots in states like Georgia, where there's Ashwin Ramaswami who's running for state legislature in places like 
 
 Pennsylvania, where Anna Thomas is running for state legislature in Pennsylvania, where there's all these incredible young people running 
 
 around the country that leaders we deserve is out there supporting.
 
And if anybody wants to help with that, they can go to leaderswedeserve.com.
 
JIMENEZ: And that's, you know, that's one thing with these elections. We typically focus at the top of the ticket. We have been. But a lot of races 
 
 at the House, a lot of races at the local level, a lot of races on the Senate side as well.
 
I want to get your perspective on one criticism that's been lobbed Vice President Harris' way, that she hasn't taken questions in a press 
 
 conference setting or any sit-down interview format in any significant way since she's announced.
 
Do you think she needs to at this stage? Why or why not?
 
HOGG: I mean, look, she's certainly been pressed a lot harder over these past three years and done tougher interviews, frankly, than Donald Trump 
 
 has at all, in these past three years.
 
And she's on the campaign trail. And we need to make up a lot of ground that I think, frankly, we were losing for a long time. Voters were telling 
 
 us that they were not super excited in the polls. And she's doing the topping that she thinks that she needs to do, which is obviously to win in 
 
 November and get out there and talk to voters.
 
And I know that the vice president, when she's available, will be willing to have those interviews and have those conversations. After all, she is 
 
 the vice president. And, inevitably, those things will come. And I think she's going to be great at talking about it.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And, look, I mean, she's changed a few policy positions from when she first ran for president in the 2020 cycle. And, you know, we've 
 
 essentially learned about it through the campaign.
 
But do you think there is an added element in hearing her personally answer for some of those changes versus, again, just leaving it to us to report 
 
 out as far as what we're getting from the campaign?
 
HOGG: Yes. I think, ultimately, she's the vice president. It's a decision that she gets to make. And I know that she'll be out there. And I'm sure 
 
 that she'll be talking to reporters soon enough about, you know, any differences that she has had with the -- with this administration and 
 
 anything that she plans to be different on.
 
Certainly, you know, we are the Democratic Party. We are not known necessarily for always being completely united in our message by any means. 
 
 But I know that we are all committed, even if we have our own smaller disagreements, we are committed to defeating Donald Trump this November. 
 
 And that is our top priority. And that's what we're going to do.
 
JIMENEZ: And one of those disagreements that we saw play out, I think a little bit over that Michigan, you know, I don't know if you got to see 
 
 some of it, but there were some protesters that interrupted -- some protesters over Gaza.
 
And she had a blunt response saying, if you want Donald Trump to win, then just say that. Otherwise, I'm speaking.
 
Do you think that's the right response to what I would say has been a pretty serious set of concerns from a lot of democratic and a lot of 
 
 progressive younger voters?
 
HOGG: Yes. Well, let's be clear. A lot of the segment that is going around of that speech actually cuts out what she said before to those protesters, 
 
 which was the fact that we are a democracy and everybody is allowed to have a voice in that.
 
And, fundamentally, whether or not you completely agree with vice president or you don't, we know that Donald Trump repeatedly has talked about wanting 
 
 to throw people like that out of his rallies and calling for his supporters to beat them up.
 
What we saw with the Vice President was saying that we are a democracy. We are an open space. We are here to have that conversation. And I know that 
 
 from my understanding that she met with the different people that are part of the uncommitted vote movement in Michigan prior to that.
 <br>[12:40:14]
 
And ultimately, we are the Democratic Party. We're here to have an open conversation and that means making sure that we understand that, of course, 
 
 we don't want what's happening in the Middle East to continue, but we're here to have that conversation.
 
So I think a lot of people were taking that soundbite out of context, frankly, because they didn't talk about -- they didn't show what she said 
 
 before, intentionally so. And I think it's really important to cover that.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. Yes. And leaders of the uncommitted movement say they briefly spoke with Vice President Kamala Harris and Tim Walz backstage beforehand, 
 
 before that rally in Detroit as well.
 
One last thing I'm going to get your perspective on is, look, Kamala Harris' campaign, I think it's fair to say they've got their internet 
 
 presence down. You know, capitalizing on brat summers, the coconut tree memes, lightning quick speed of Kamala HQ. I feel like every single time 
 
 something happens, they're ready to go.
 
But more tangibly, what does that type of presence do for a young voter, maybe even a first-time voter?
 
HOGG: Well, I think what it does is it helps to move them, right? Young people, unfortunately, are not watching cable news a lot of the time or 
 
 watching, you know, traditional T.V.
 
They're getting a lot of their information from social media. And there are two types of things, really three types of things that will go viral on 
 
 social media. It's things that are inspirational, things that are outreach inducing or things that are funny.
 
And what the Harris campaign has done an excellent job of leaning into is making sure that they're creating funny content and building a joyful 
 
 movement.
 
I think people are so tired of the past eight years of, you know, living under this shadow of Donald Trump and the existential kind of just dread 
 
 that he brings and the anger and hatred that he brings.
 
And what the Harris-Walz ticket is doing is bringing a lot of that joy back and showing people like, hey, you know, it is OK to laugh. It is OK to -- 
 
 for us to have fun.
 
We have to work hard, but we're building a joyful movement to bring joy back to our country and not let people like Donald Trump dictate what it 
 
 means to be a man, what it means to be an American because what it means to be an American is to -- like Governor Walz says, mind your own damn 
 
 business and let people have their freedom.
 
Because the Republicans, they go out there and talk constantly about how they want freedom so much. But what freedom looks like to me is kids being 
 
 able to survive their math class. What freedom looks like to me is being able to make a decision between your doctor and yourself and not have a 
 
 Republican member of Congress get into that exam room.
 
And what it looks like to me is letting teachers teach and not being freaking out around stuff that is simply not happening in a lot of these 
 
 classrooms and trying to dictate what these kids can and cannot read.
 
Ultimately, you know, we are America. We have a complicated history. We have a great history. We are a great country, but we have obviously had 
 
 many flaws along the way. And we need to have a holistic understanding and educational system to address that past so that we can move forward to 
 
 create a more perfect union.
 
Because the beauty of America is that we acknowledge that we aren't perfect in the first place. And that's why we're all to make -- working to make 
 
 ourselves better.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes.
 
David Hogg, really appreciate the perspective. Thanks for taking the time.
 
HOGG: Thank you.
 
JIMENEZ: All right, man.
 
Still to come, homes destroyed in waterlogged streets. We're not talking about Florida. We are talking about Alaska. CNN's Bill Weir weighs in on 
 
 the effects of climate change on glaciers after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:04]
 
JIMENEZ: All right. Welcome back. Alaska is dealing with a flood emergency. You heard that right, Alaska. A melting glacier is causing unprecedented 
 
 flooding in the city of Juneau.
 
A rush of water unleashed by an ailing glacier caused a nearby river to overflow and flood the city, damaging more than 100 homes.
 
At one point, some streets were near -- were under nearly four feet or 120 centimeters of water. And scientists say these kinds of outbursts are 
 
 happening more often because of climate change.
 
CNN's chief climate correspondent, Bill Weir, joins us now with more.
 
So, Bill, can you just break down one, what we know in this situation and the context within this larger phenomenon in science that we've been 
 
 following?
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: Sure. Absolutely, Omar.
 
This is a new term we have to learn now on a warmer planet. That's the gloth, Glacial Lake Outburst Flood. The folks most susceptible to this 
 
 actually are in the Himalayas. There's some 8,000 glaciers that are sort of dripping time bombs in Pakistan.
 
You know, you have entire communities built high in the mountains below these glacial lakes. Well, the most vivid American example is the capital 
 
 of Alaska. Juneau is built below the Mendenhall Glacier.
 
And about 15 years ago, I went to do a story on a photographer, James Balog, who had set up time-lapse cameras around the Mendenhall because he 
 
 was trying to get people's attention that these massive mountains of ice are melting at staggering rates and receding up these valleys.
 
Well, you don't need time-lapse photography. This time around, city manager thankfully said there's no injuries reported, but they had people showing 
 
 up dripping wet, freezing cold in the middle of the night in emergency shelters because this lake up near the Mendenhall just released all at once 
 
 and came right into the city there as well.
 
As we say, this is becoming more and more common around the world. This happened last year in Juneau. You might remember a sort of a viral clip of 
 
 a house just disintegrating into a flowing river. That was a result of a gloth outburst last year up around there as well.
 
So this is again one of those things, thankfully, that didn't cost any life or injury, but is a vivid reminder that the world we live on now is we 
 
 built for something else. We did not build for a world where these permanent ice glaciers would melt with such rapid intensification there 
 
 that threatens the communities, the cities that live below them as well.
 
But thankfully, things are OK there now, but, you know, not for the folks. You could say it's cold comfort for the folks who now have to deal with 
 
 flooding in their home, no injuries there. But as you say, a really odd situation happening in Juneau.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. And just following the images, it seems real significant flooding in many parts of the city there. Bill, we are, thank you so much.
 
WEIR: You bet.
 
JIMENEZ: Meanwhile, it's been two decades since an American has been dubbed the fastest man alive.
 
Coming up after the break, we're going to take a look at Noah Lyles' next challenge at the Paris Olympics.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:40]
 
JIMENEZ: In just about 90 minutes, the fastest man alive will show off why he's earned that nickname. At least that's the plan. We're talking about 
 
 Noah Lyles, who will compete in the men's 200-meter final, the American runner won gold Sunday in the 100-meter by just five-one thousandths of a 
 
 second.
 
It's been 20 years since an American has claimed the fastest man alive title.
 
Don Riddell joins us now live.
 
All right. What can we expect here? Is he going to repeat, get another gold?
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah. I think he probably will and I think he will do it in much more definitive style.
 
Noah Lyles is one of those athletes who's easy to love, easy to hate and absolutely impossible to ignore, because he just puts on a show and what he 
 
 did in the 100 meters was incredible.
 
I mean, you've described the winning margin. It was, well, not even the width of a piece of hair, I would imagine. I mean, that's just how close it 
 
 was. And he was never ahead in that race until the moment he crossed the finish line.
 
He is a famously slow starter, but his top speed is just insane, which is why he has a much better chance in the 200 meters. It's his favorite event. 
 
 It doesn't matter if you make a slower start in the 200. You can more than make up for it because you have much more track to play with.
 
So that is what he's going for. He might even break the world record in the 200 and that would add to the one and the two that he took in the world 
 
 championships last year.
 
He's all show, as I say, he's impossible to ignore and he wants that. He wants to, of course, elevate himself to the highest possible place in his 
 
 sport, but he's just great for track and field. He is great for his sport. And he's bringing a lot of new eyeballs to the sport, especially ever 
 
 since, you know, we were left with Usain Bolt, departing the scene.
 
We spoke to him earlier this year. This is what he had to say to Coy Wire about what he's hoping to achieve.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOOAH LYLES, MEN'S 100M GOLD MEDALIST: The impossible. Truly, I mean, in my head, it's like, I think of something and it's like, OK, has somebody done 
 
 this? OK. If somebody hasn't done this, why haven't they do it? Why can't I be the first to do it?
 
That mentality goes to the idea of if I shoot for the stars, if I fall, I land on the clouds.
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Three words to describe Noah Lyles.
 
LYLES: Creative, inspirational, icon.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIDDELL: Icon. Even if he says so, yourself. You see what I mean, Omar? That's his style.
 
JIMENEZ: Look, and it's not how you start these races, it's how you finish. He's embodied that in every sense of the word.
 
Don, I just want -- before we go, I just want to ask your general impressions of what the Olympics have been the past few days, because from 
 
 the Quincy Hall finish to, of course, what we saw with Noah Lyles, it just seems that the track and field and those types of events have lived up to 
 
 the excitement that people usually have for them coming in.
 
RIDDELL: Yes, I think so. I think it's been great. I mean, we've seen some wonderful moments, too many to name here.
 
I mean, I think of the pole vault, for example -- 
 
JIMENEZ: Yes.
 
RIDDELL: -- with Mona DuPlantis winning the medal, winning the gold medal for a second time. And then with his next jump, setting Olympic record. And 
 
 then with his last jump, breaking the world record, which is his own world record. We've seen some incredible moments like that.
 
The Olympics, of course, I mean, it's an absolute smorgasbord of sport, but the track and field, I think, is always where the most people get excited. 
 
 It's always safe for the second week. And as you say, it has not disappointed once again.
 <br>[12:55:06]
 
JIMENEZ: And the best part is we've still got more to go. Don Riddell, thank you so much.
 
All right. Finally, elusive street artist, Banksy, is on a roll with a new piece of art popping up in London for a third straight day.
 
This time, it's an image of three swinging monkeys. How do people -- how do people know that this is Banksy?
 
Three swinging monkeys revealed on this bridge on Wednesday. It's a stencil style artwork, just like the other two that appeared earlier in the week.
 
They include an image of two elephants poking out of windows, which was first spotted on Tuesday.
 
Again, if I see that, I don't know immediately that that's Banksy, but I'm glad we've got people on the case.
 
And this picture of a goat on a ledge, which was unveiled the day before.
 
Now, the artist didn't write any captions, so the meaning of the work in classic fashion is up for interpretation.
 
But again, I'm glad I've got you all out there spotting these, because they are pretty impressive and they are cool.
 
And I couldn't do it, but I wouldn't be able to spot that and say, oh, that's Banksy's work as I'm walking by.
 
All right, everyone. That does it for this hour of ONE WORLD. I'm Omar Jimenez. Thank you all for watching. Hope you learned something. Thanks for 
 
 spending part of your day with us.
 
"AMANPOUR" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END