Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Putin In Vietnam After Landmark Visit To North Korea; Philippines Accuses China Of "Brutal Assault" During Clash; Growing Fears Of Israel-Hezbollah Tensions Boiling Over. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired June 20, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, HOST, "CNN NEWSROOM": Hello, and welcome to our viewers all around the world. I'm Rahel Solomon, and this is CNN Newsroom. 
 
Just ahead, Russian President Vladimir Putin is currently in Vietnam, just hours after signing a defense pact with Pyongyang. Tensions flare in the South China Sea after a confrontation between a Philippine supply boat and the Chinese Coast Guard. And U.S. President Joe Biden and Donald Trump will meet face-to-face one week from today for the first presidential debate. So, how are they preparing and prepping for the event?
 
At this hour, Russian President Vladimir Putin is in Vietnam, touting the friendship between the two nations. He arrived earlier after a whirlwind visit to North Korea. Mr. Putin's tour is aimed in part at showing that Russia has friends all over the world, despite its isolation from the West. After meeting Vietnam's leaders, he and the President, To Lam, signed a number of agreements. Putin, whose war in Ukraine is in its third year, spoke about settling differences peacefully.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (Interpreted): While discussing the Asia-Pacific region, we discussed mutual interest in building a reliable and adequate architecture of security based on non-violent methods of dispute resolutions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: Let's get to CNN's Mike Valerio, who is following the story from Seoul, and joins us now live. So, Mike, I mean, he is in Vietnam now, but it's still this trip to North Korea that has overshadowed that trip, and the fallout from that visit to Pyongyang still making headlines. What can you share with us?
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rahel, we now have the exact text of the treaty. We didn't have that the last time that we talked to you. And we've been able to confirm through reading the treaty in full that it calls for the automatic military intervention from either North Korea or Russia, if either of those countries were to engage in some armed conflict with an enemy. And you're right. That is making headlines across the peninsula right now. It's one of the top headlines in one of the major papers here in Seoul with all of the images of the pageantry in Pyongyang splashed across front pages here in Seoul today. 
 
So, we have that agreement and condemnation from South Korea's government. But, South Korea is saying, you know what, we got to have a chat with Russia because South Korea has relatively good relations with Russia. So, condemnation but we want to hear more. And at the same time, the chief of South Korea's National Security Council is saying, in the future, we may, and we stress the word may, review our policy of not sending lethal weapons to Ukraine. That is something that South Korea has had in place for a while now since the two-plus years of the war in Ukraine, but opening the door to perhaps change that policy, now that Moscow and Pyongyang have this new military alliance. 
 
But, we have more and more North Korea watchers who are saying, this could be more of a statement than real substance. The title of this treaty, Rahel, is called a comprehensive strategic partnership agreement. It is not an alliance like Kim Jong Un was saying yesterday. Vladimir Putin is not even calling an alliance. North Korea watcher saying -- are saying that Putin and Kim Jong Un may be exaggerating this a little bit because neither of them have had such a great year so far. Listen to a little bit more on that point. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YANG UK, RESEARCH FELLOW, ASAN INSTITUTE OF POLICY STUDIES (Interpreted): Kim Jong Un hasn't had notable political achievements in the first half of 2024. So, creating an atmosphere that the two countries have restored the past military alliances between the Soviet Union and North Korea would be a way to show this summit as his political victory.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VALERIO: OK. So, Rahel, two things. Where do we go from here? The first item, we are still awaiting comment from our own American National Security Council and also the Pentagon. We have requests for comment in. It'll be fascinating to see what John Kirby and the rest of the establishment from the Pentagon in terms of what they are telling the press briefings that are yet to come in the next couple of days. Now that we are beyond the Juneteenth holiday, that sort of explains why we don't have a comment from them yet. 
 
Also, this agreement between Pyongyang and Moscow opens up the door for military drills between North Korea and Russia. 
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
So, it'll be interesting to see how if at all those drills materialize, as the United States, South Korea and Japan in the next few days with their stronger alliance are expected to hold naval military drills as a new method of cooperation since they entered a strategic alliance of their own last autumn. So, watch this space. A lot going on. The dust still has not settled here on the Korean peninsula. Rahel. 
 
SOLOMON: Watch this space and watch what they say. But, to your point, watch what they do. Mike Valerio live for us there is Seoul. Mike. Thank you. Yeah. 
 
All right. Well, we are also keeping an eye on rising tensions between China and the Philippines. Manila is accusing China's Coast Guard of launching what it calls a "brutal assault". This occurred during the South China Sea clash earlier this week, and CNN's Ivan Watson looks now at how the U.S. might find itself being drawn in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A high seas confrontation that could ignite a war. In the middle is a boat belonging to U.S. ally, the Philippines, sandwiched by the China Coast Guard in the heavily contested South China Sea on Monday. Footage released by the Armed Forces of the Philippines shows its uniformed sailors attempting to fight back, some Chinese Coast Guard personnel armed with axes and knives. But, Beijing says the Philippines started it. 
 
LIN JIAN, CHINA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS (Interpreted): Law enforcement measures taken by the China Coast Guard at the site were professional and restrained. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): China says it seized guns and ammunition from the Philippines ship, which was enroute to the Second Thomas Shoal. It is in Manila's exclusive economic zone, but Beijing claims almost all of the South China Sea for itself. In March, I was on board a Philippine Coast Guard ship on one of these routine trips. Chinese Coast Guard ships swarmed the Philippine ship. 
 
WATSON: It is just after sunrise, and as you may see, there is a large Chinese Coast Guard ship directly in front of this Philippines Coast Guard vessel. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): A Chinese Coast Guard ship blasted another Philippine boat with water cannons.
 
Monday's clash marks a clear escalation with multiple Philippine servicemen injured. Just last month, the Philippine President drew this red line.
 
FERDINAND MARCOS, JUNIOR, PHILIPPINES PRESIDENT: If a Filipino citizen is killed by a willful act, that is, I think, very, very close to what we define as an act of war, and therefore we will respond accordingly.
 
WATSON (voice-over): If that happens, the United States could be called to help the Philippines, and some experts argue Manila already has grounds to invoke its mutual defense treaty with the U.S., which has increased its military presence in the Philippines, angering China. The
 
RAY POWELL, GORDIAN KNOT CENTER FOR NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION: The Philippines would be perfectly within its rights under the treaty to go to the United States and say this meets the terms of Article Three. We need your help, and enter into those formal high-level consultations about what is to be done.
 
WATSON (voice-over): In a call with his Filipino counterpart this week, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the U.S. commitment to defending the Philippines is ironclad. This simmering maritime dispute now threatens to boil over with all the potential for a much greater contract. 
 
Ivan Watson, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON: All right. Now, to the Israel-Hamas war. The Rafah crossing between Israel and Egypt has been a vital point for aid into Gaza. And now, new video and satellite images reviewed by CNN show the passenger terminal on the Gaza side has been burned and has been severely damaged. The Israeli military conducted significant bulldozing and clearing at the terminal earlier this month, causing more destruction to a main building already damaged by a fire in late May. 
 
Meanwhile, Israel and Hezbollah are ramping up the rhetoric and trading new threats of war. The Iran-backed group now threatening Cyprus, warning the European island against opening its airports and bases to Israeli forces. The militant group's leader also promising to hold nothing back against Israel. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HASSAN NASRALLAH, HEZBOLLAH CHIEF (Interpreted): If war is imposed on Lebanon, the resistance will fight without restraints, without rules and without limits. The enemy knows very well that we have prepared ourselves for the worst and most difficult days, and the enemy knows very well what awaits it, and that is why it was deterred for nine months.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: Now, Israel and Hezbollah have been trading cross-border attacks since October 7, but the strikes have ramped up more recently. Israel also issuing a fresh warning to Hezbollah after the group released this drone footage purportedly showing military and civilian sites in northern Israel. 
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
Let's go now to CNN's Ben Wedeman, who joins us live from Beirut, Lebanon. Ben, talk to us a little bit more about what we're learning about these threats from Hezbollah to Cyprus.
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this was, as you mentioned, it was in this speech he gave yesterday in which he said that Hezbollah has collected intelligence that would indicate that Israel wants to use or will use Cypriot bases and airports for attacks against Lebanon. Now, for some background, the military relationship between Israel and Cyprus has developed dramatically in recent years. They had their first joint military exercises in 2014. The latest one was May 2023. 
 
Now, of course, the President of Cyprus came out and said that their country has no intention of becoming involved in a war, and he described Nasrallah's statements as not pleasant. We also heard this morning from his spokesman of the Cypriot government, who said that Cypriot territory will not be used for any military operations. Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Ben, talk to me a little bit about the Rafah crossing passenger terminal on the Gaza side of the border with Egypt. As we saw, I mean, it looks burned. It looks badly damaged. What more can you share there?
 
WEDEMAN: Well, what we know is that when the Israelis took over that site in May, they seemed to be intentionally not harming that passenger terminal. Although, yes, we see as of the 27th, 28th of May, it seems to have been torched, and -- I mean, several buildings in that area. In addition to that, there have been videos posted on social media showing Israeli soldiers have turned a nearby mosque, the mosque that is part of the passenger complex, into a dining hall and that they had spray-painted Islamophobic slogans on the wall. 
 
Now, CNN reached out to the Israeli military for comment, but we haven't seen any yet. And this sort of video, we're seeing really dozens, if not hundreds of social media video being posted by Israeli soldiers, doing this sort of thing, either vandalizing the Palestinian homes or public institutions. Now, having been embedded with U.S. forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, I can tell you that the U.S. military would simply not tolerate this sort of behavior, but it doesn't seem that Israel seems very interested in putting a stop to it. Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: OK. Ben Wedeman live for us there in Beirut. Ben, stay safe. Thank you. 
 
Let's stay in the Middle East now. The U.S. military says that it has killed a top ISIS official in Syria. U.S. Central Command quick to add that there is no indication that any civilians were harmed in Sunday's airstrike. U.S. military continues to go after ISIS in the Middle East and Africa, saying that it is, quote, "committed to the enduring defeat of ISIS". 
 
Let's get right to the Pentagon and CNN's Natasha Bertrand. Natasha, what are you hearing at the Pentagon? What are they saying?
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Rahel. So, this was an airstrike that was carried out in Syria on June 16. And according to U.S. Central Command, it did kill a senior ISIS official, who Central Command described as a facilitator and someone who has been helping ISIS resources and planning for their operations, and this, according to Central Command, is going to help disrupt ISIS' planning, particularly when it comes to their plots against the U.S. Homeland. 
 
But, it's important to note here that the U.S. has continued to go after ISIS operatives in Iraq, Syria, elsewhere in Africa, over the last several years, just from this -- in this year alone, from January to March, over 18 ISIS fighters have been killed, according to U.S. Central Command, and an additional over 50 had been detained in Iraq and Syria. And so, the U.S. and its coalition partners here are still going after ISIS because they still deem it a threat to the U.S. Homeland, saying that ISIS operatives are continuing to plot attacks against the United States. 
 
But, it's also important to note here that as the U.S. continues to launch these airstrikes against the suspected terrorists in the Middle East and in Africa, it is not always a perfect military operation in terms of actually getting the ISIS targets that they are going after. Just last year, in May of 2023, U.S. Central Command said that it was going after an Al-Qaeda operative in Syria, when in fact that individual turned out to be a farmer with no ties to terrorism at all. And we all remember that botched drone strike in Kabul, Afghanistan, in 2021 where the U.S. said it was going after terrorist, ISIS operatives in that city when in fact they killed 10 members of a family that were civilians with no ties to terrorism. 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
And so, in this case and on that Sunday strike, the U.S. says there are no indications at this point that any civilians were harmed. But, of course, it is always important to keep asking those questions, because sometimes when they do an after action review, they determine that actually it was a civilian and not a terrorist. Rahel. 
 
SOLOMON: OK. Natasha Bertrand, keep us posted, live from the Pentagon. Thank you. 
 
And still to come, we take a look at the different ways Donald Trump and Joe Biden are both preparing for next week's debate right here on CNN. And a renewed debate over state-sponsored religion after one U.S. state decides to put the Ten Commandments in school classrooms. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back. And we're just one week out from the first presidential debate right here on CNN, and the two candidates gearing up to formally face off in Atlanta for the first time in four years. President Biden plans to spend time at Camp David, working with his closest advisors to prepare, including with full mock debates. Donald Trump reportedly doesn't enjoy debate practice, but he has been brushing up on key policy statements, working with Republican senators and his vice presidential hopefuls. He is already slinging baseless claims against President Biden ahead of the primetime showdown. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: He is going to be pumped. Joe Biden doesn't have a clue. Now, we're going to watch. Is anybody going to watch the debate? He is going to be so pumped up. He is going to be pumped up. You know all that stuff that was missing about a month ago from the White House. What happened? Somebody didn't pick up hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of cocaine. I wonder who that could have been. I don't know. Actually, I think it was Joe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: As for Biden's debate strategy, he says it's simple. He has to do is let Trump do the talking. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID MUIR, ABC NEWS ANCHOR: What do you think you need to accomplish on that debate stage?
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Say what I think. Let him say what he thinks. The things he says are off the wall: 'I want to be a dictator on day one.' I want to move in a direction where he talks about, you know, suspending the Constitution. All I have to do is hear what he says, remind people what he says and what I believe and what he believes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: All right. For more on how both camps are preparing for the debate, we bring in CNN's Arlette Saenz, who is following Joe Biden, and our Steve Contorno, who is in Florida on the Trump beat. Steve, let's start with you, and talk to us a little bit about what you've learned. How Donald Trump is preparing? In some ways, it seems like he wants to have it both ways. On the one hand, he obviously repeatedly suggests that Joe Biden is in mental decline. On the other, he almost seems to need to pump Biden up so that it doesn't look bad if Biden has a good showing at the debate. 
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
What's the thinking here?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Yeah, certainly leveling expectations in recent days. That's something we've seen from Trump and his allies, especially in conservative media. Going into, for example, the State of the Union, there were concerns from some Republicans that they had set the bar so low for Biden by preparing their, some Trump supporters, for him to be able to barely speak, for him to show him -- show that he is old and feeble. And then he gave a pretty compelling State of the Union address. And there is concern that they've done the same thing again this time. So, we're seeing some leveling of expectations going into this debate. 
 
And he is not holding mock debate sessions like Joe Biden is, but he is meeting with advisors and they are strategizing how to game plan and talk through some of these answers and questions that they expect. He has been talking with some of his potential vice presidential running mates about strategizing on policy questions, talking about abortion and crime and immigration and the border and such. And so, that's sort of what they've been doing prepping going into this, and he is also hitting the campaign trail. He'll be in Philadelphia on Saturday, holding a rally.
 
SOLOMON: Arlette, what are you hearing on the Biden side of things? I mean, how hard are we expecting him to go after Trump? I mean, does he focus on Trump's felony convictions? What are you hearing?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rahel, President Biden in the prep sessions that have already been underway has really been trying to focus on trying to hold Trump accountable on the debate stage. That's according to sources familiar with the way these things have played out so far. And really, for the Biden team, their ultimate goal is trying to paint Trump as divisive and chaotic. And for so long, advisors have said that once voters start to pay more attention, remember what the four years of a Trump presidency were look -- looks like, and then what the coming years could look like, that that is really when the dynamics of this race could potentially shift. 
 
So, for Biden, he really wants to use this as an opportunity to draw those contrasts with Donald Trump. One advisor -- campaign official said that the President has been a lot punchier in his attacks against Trump out on the campaign trail, and that is something that they hope will continue heading in to this debate. 
 
Now, Biden will depart Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, a bit later tonight to head straight to Camp David, where he is expected to have more intensive debate preparations. It's expected they'll start with some informal discussions, going over possible topics and questions, and then transition into those full 90-minute mock debates. That is something that he did back in 2020. And really, the goal of those mock debates is to run through every possible scenario of what Trump could be like on that stage, what Trump could raise on that stage, including possible personal attacks. So, for Biden, he is really viewing this high-stakes moment as an opportunity to not just present his case, but also trying to make that contrast with Trump, who they really believe is unfit to serve in the office of the presidency. 
 
SOLOMON: OK. One week away. Steve Contorno, tracking the Trump campaign, White House Correspondent Arlette Saenz, thank you both. 
 
The billionaire co-founder of LinkedIn is weighing in on the presidential race. He is warning other top business executives to be cautious of Donald Trump. Reid Hoffman tells CNN that Trump's rants about our legal system are bad for business, and he says that other CEOs agree with him, but they're scared to speak up. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID HOFFMAN, CO-FOUNDER, LINKEDIN: The rule of law is what has made America very special. It has made an environment for business that has been spectacular, a glowing beacon to the entire world. It's the trust that other countries have in us and our system and how we interact, which allows our industries to export and allows the dollar to be the reserve real currency of the world. And that's the reason why Biden is fundamentally, no matter what, more pro-business than Trump. I've literally talked to business leaders who are fearful about speaking out against this because they're fearful of retaliation. 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Are you concerned that Trump to retaliate against you? 
 
HOFFMAN: Of course I'm concerned. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: All right. Our thanks to Matt Egan for that. 
 
And a new battle over religion and the government has cropped up in the U.S. state of Louisiana. That state's Republican governor has signed a law requiring schools to put a poster-size display of the Ten Commandments in every classroom. It applies to any school that receives state funding, from kindergarten to universities. Now, civil liberties groups immediately vowing to challenge that law in court. They say that it violates the U.S. Constitution itself, which prohibits the government establishment of religion. 
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales is tracking the story for us. Isabel, just bring us up to speed. The Ten Commandments are obviously a religious text from the Judeo-Christian Bible. How do advocates say that that doesn't violate the constitutional separation of church and state?
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rahel, good morning to you. So, opponents certainly saying that this is a blatant violation of the Constitution, specifically the establishment clause because this would be promoting one religion. But, supporters say the Ten Commandments is not just a religious document, but it also has historical significance. And in fact, the state of Kentucky tried to do a very similar directive, and the Supreme Court struck it down, saying it was unconstitutional. But, Rahel, that was back in 1980. And we have a very different court today that is much friendlier to religious rights. 
 
So, let's look at what this law details, signed just yesterday by Governor Jeff Landry, House Bill 71 mandates poster-size displays of the Ten Commandments in large, easily readable font. This would be placed at all public schools, from kindergarten up until state-funded universities, and the governor are calling House Bill 71 quote, "One of my favorites" of all the education bills that he signed. He also said this. "If you want to respect the rule of law, you got to start from the original law given which was Moses. He got his commandments from God." Here is how one Louisiana teacher feels about it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JACOB NEWSOME, LOUISIANA HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER: I was raised to follow the Ten Commandments, and I think regardless of how you feel about the Ten Commandments, nobody would dismiss the fact that they are a pretty good set of rules. However, it is a clear violation of separation of church and state to enforce this. I mean, what's going to happen? A third grader is going to walk into a classroom and see, Thou shalt not commit adultery on the wall and say, well, you know, I was really planning on committing adultery today. But, since I read that on the wall, now I'm not going to do it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: And for civil rights groups, including the ACLU, vowing that they will sue over this law, saying that students here are essentially captive audiences to school-sponsored religious messages. And here is the Executive Director of the ACLU of Louisiana, which she said in part here, "Politicians have no business imposing their preferred religious doctrine on students and families in public schools." That executive director also saying that the timing of the signing of this bill just yesterday, Juneteenth, she called that deeply concerning. Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: OK. Isabel Rosales, we'll continue to follow it. Thank you. 
 
All right. Still to come for us, Kenya's government response after massive protests break out over proposed tax hikes. Plus, we'll tell you how Ukrainian civilians are coping with frequent power outages, as another massive Russian attack further cripples the country's electrical grid. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back. Russia launched a new barrage of missile and drone attacks overnight, targeting Ukraine's energy infrastructure. Ukrainian officials say that the attacks caused damage in four regions, including a thermal power plant. The surge in attacks this late March have knocked out Ukraine's energy generating capacity and force rolling blackouts. Clare Sebastian reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Blackouts turn simple daily activities like taking a toddler out to play into Herculean tasks.
 
KATERYNA SERZHAN, KYIV RESIDENT: Because we live on the 50th floor, and sometimes when Vladia (ph) wants bicycle, it's kind of complicated.
 
SEBASTIAN: It's created a situation where it's actually hard for you to leave your house.
 
SERZHAN: Yeah. Maybe it's easier to leave our house, but it's hard to come back. 
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): Starting in late March, Russia launched a series of massive attacks precision targeting Ukraine's power generating facilities. For the first time in summer, rolling blackouts are now almost a daily occurrence. I guess camping stove the only way to cook a hot dinner. And yet, Kateryna's resilience belies the scale of this crisis. By early June, the attacks had destroyed 40 percent of the country's electricity generating capacity, says DTEK, Ukraine's largest private energy company, and winter is too close for comfort. 
 
DMYTRO SAKHARUK, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, DTEK: We have 120 days left before the start of the heating season, 120 days. So, it means that the speed in which we need to whoo (ph) should be extremely high. It may not be business as usual.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): There is no quick fix, rebuild where possible, in some cases, using parts from decommissioned power plants in Europe, start building more smaller power units to spread the risk, import more from Europe. 
 
SEBASTIAN: Are you worried that it won't get done in 120 days that it's going to mean that there are still deficits going into the winter?
 
SAKHARUK: The deficits will be higher than today, and that will mean that people will not have lights in their houses up to 20 hours. 
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): Even with scheduled blackouts, the unexpected still happens. We lost the lights. That's the reality we live in, says this Ukrainian news anchor.
 
SVITLANA GRYNCHUK, UKRAINIAN DEPUTY MINISTER OF ENERGY: We called it the second frontline. Energy now is like second frontline. We understand that the winter period will be difficult for us and -- but we are doing our best and we try to be ready. 
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): And that means being ready for more attacks. 
 
GRYNCHUK: The first priority is to protect our energy facilities, to protect our energy infrastructure, and the best way, it is air defense.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): There is progress on air defense and funding. But, it's not quick enough for Kateryna and her daughter, now looking to leave Kyiv for the winter and winter house with a wood burning stove.
 
SERZHAN: We have only important here, and we understand that it will be really cold over here.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON: And Clare Sebastian actually joins us now from London. Clare, as you pointed out, I mean, it may be summer now but there is no quick fix for this. Talk to us a little bit about what you heard in terms of how Ukrainians are preparing for next winter.
 
SEBASTIAN: Yeah. It's really a race against time, and especially as we see that the attacks are continuing. There is sort of three different categories to what they're doing. One, of course, is trying to bring as much supply back as they can, be it through mending and fixing the facilities that can be fixed, some, of course, are too badly destroyed and will need to be rebuilt. And that cannot happen in the next three to four months, bringing in lots of generators, including from partners and allies. Renewables are a big thing, more imports of electricity from Europe, bearing in mind that before the war, Ukraine was a net exporter of electricity for Europe. 
 
Then we have demand, and this is a big ask, right, for the people of Ukraine, who are already going through hours-long outages every day, being asked to save more electricity. Some people are buying solar panels. We see grants from the government, increasing the availability of loans for people to buy energy equipment. Businesses are stepping in. Ukrainian railways, for example, has cut back its suburban train service a little bit to try to save electricity. Supermarkets, one supermarket chain telling us that they're stocking less goods with short sell by dates to minimize the refrigerator use. So, all kinds of things are happening. 
 
But, of course, the one thing that really matters to Ukraine is to be able to protect these energy facilities and that means more air defenses. 
 <br>[08:35:00]
 
And we're just hearing this morning via our Pentagon team that the White House -- a senior White House official saying that they are now moving Ukraine up the list of countries in terms of prioritizing them for critical air defense capabilities. That means that more air defenses should start arriving this summer. They cannot come soon enough for Ukraine. 
 
SOLOMON: Yeah. Certainly welcome news in Ukraine. As you said, time is of the essence. Clare Sebastian live for us in London. Clare, thank you. 
 
Protesters, meantime, in Kenya are demanding the government scrap a controversial tax bill. Huge crowds have been marching in several cities, including the capital Nairobi, where violent clashes between protesters and police have broken out. Now, the government of Kenya is voting on the tax bill after announcing some changes to it. They say that they would drop some of the new taxes on things like cars and bread. But, as the cost of living there soars, many Kenyans say that's not good enough. 
 
CNN's Larry Madowo joins us live from Nairobi. Larry, give us a sense of what you're seeing on the ground there. What's happening?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rahel, parts of the capital of Nairobi have been brought to a standstill with what appears to be thousands of protesters, peaceful protesters, I should add, trying to get their voices heard. They're out here against what is called the finance bill. These are a raft of proposals from the government of President William Ruto. After some public outcry, a couple of the most unpopular proposals were dropped, including taxes on bread and some other key legislative agenda items were dropped. 
 
However, the mood we see here, want the entire finance bill to be abandoned, not piecemeal changes. They're told that to their leaders. They've told that to their elected representatives. They've told that to the government of President Ruto. And this is the second time this week that they're out on the streets. What we have seen all afternoon is peaceful protesters getting completely, repeatedly, violently broken down by the police using tear gas canisters, using water cannon. And every time they disperse them a little bit, they come back again, sing the national anthem. They say we're peaceful. We're just trying to get the government to pay attention to us. I'm here with Edwin Omandi (ph), who is one of the protesters. Edwin, how old are you? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm 21 years of age.
 
MADOWO: Why are you here today?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Today, I'm here to riot because the government of William Samoei Ruto is humiliating us. When they were campaigning, they promised that this is going to be a government of hustlers, but it has now turned to be a government of tycoons. We, as Kenyans, are very tired. This morning, we have turned to protest peacefully. But, the police who have come here have come to enforce on the protest. Most of us have been injured. In fact, most of us have died. And we think that this government has come to an end. We don't want Ruto. Ruto must go. It is enough. They are coming to tax everything. They've been taxing our (inaudible). We want -- if the bill is going to be passed today, then it means that we shall be lining and rioting on the roads.
 
MADOWO: All right. So, that the thing, because we are just a few hundred meters away from the Kenya's National Assembly, where Kenyan lawmakers are currently going to vote on the finance bill, the same finance bill that the people you see out here are saying they don't want. They've had -- they've gone through a raft of amendments. They're voting on it in the National Assembly any moment now. If they do go ahead and vote for it, these people on the streets will not be happy, because for weeks now and especially this week, twice, at least, they've been out on the streets here in Nairobi, in Mombasa, in Kisumu, in Eldore, and other parts of the country, saying that life would be too expensive for them. And they're out here because they're fighting against over taxation. 
 
But, what do you see here is these running battles between police and the protesters. You see tear gas that's got deployed back there. We've been seeing that all over the city. These people have been largely peaceful, but because of the tear gas canisters, because of the water cannon, most of the businesses essentially blocked down here. You see people running back here, because what's happening is every time the police get closer, then they try and get them back. But, then they re- group, go back and sing the national anthem, despite the dramatic scene out here, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Yeah, it is. And obviously, passions are really high. Larry, any sense, we heard the protester you just spoke with there, say that many, at least according to him, that many people have been injured. Have you been able to gather? I mean, how many people have been hurt? How many people are out there? Can you contextualize this for us?
 
MADOWO: We haven't seen any actual strong casualties. We've seen a few people who've been hurt, partly because police are sometimes fighting the tear gas canisters directly at protesters. We saw journalists were hurt in the incident because the canister hit right in his head. So, a few of those have happened around the city. But, again, this is just one in the capital city. These are protests happening all around. What do you hear them saying here is Ruto must go. And extraordinary because most of them are young people in their 20s, Gen Zs who organized the social media to try and get the government to pay attention to them, the same people that elected President Ruto now telling him that Ruto must go. Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: OK. Larry Madowo, thank you for the reporting. Obviously, be safe. Thank you. 
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
All right. Coming up, too much fire and too much rain. New Mexico is dealing with twin disasters. The rain may help with the wildfires, but it's also creating problems of its own. The incredible pictures from there, coming up. Also, as the world searches for clean energy sources, some scientists are looking far beneath the surface of the Earth. We have a new report from Iceland coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back. The state of New Mexico is facing multiple weather-related disasters. Deadly wildfires there have now claimed two lives. A video show a man was found burned to death in his car. Earlier in the day, another man was found dead near a motel. Some 1,400 buildings had been destroyed, many of them homes. Meanwhile, rainfall is providing some relief for firefighters but it also brought flash flooding to some areas. 
 
And Tropical Storm Alberto continues to gain strength in the Gulf of Mexico, heading just south of the U.S.-Mexico border. Forecasters in Mexico say that it could bring winds of up to 52 miles per hour. Alberto could also possibly bring tornadoes to South Texas. 
 
Stefano Pozzebon shows us how extreme weather is affecting Latin America.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Latina America is bracing for more precipitation in the next few days, as a Tropical Storm Alberto is expected to make landfall in the Mexico's Gulf Coast between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. The storm is the first of the year and officially opens the Atlantic hurricane season, which experts predict will be heavier than normal. And for those who depend on the sea for their livelihood, a tropical storm can only mean one thing. 
 
JOSE VIRGILIO PEREZ, FISHERMAN FROM MEXICO (Interpreted): We are all at risk. When you're at sea, a squall, the wind, storms can reach you and it gets really dangerous. It's always dangerous for fisherman,
 
POZZEBON: Mexico is already recovering from intense rains that hit its southern regions as well as other countries in Central America in the last few days. For example, El Salvador has declared a nationwide state of emergency due to extreme rainfall that left at least 11 people killed this week. Extreme weather events are becoming more and more common across the region, and Latin America finds itself particularly exposed to these type of events, because most countries do not have the resources to mitigate and to prevent the worst effects of climate change. 
 
Another country that, for example, is reeling from extreme weather is Ecuador, which reported a nationwide blackout on Thursday. Hospitals in the country's capital Quito had to rely on independent power plants to maintain operations, which were instead suspended for a few hours in the public subway, in the metro transport system. The government blamed the blackout on a cut to one of the main lines. 
 <br>[08:45:00]
 
But, just this week, electricity rationing measures were announced because extreme waterfall was impacting the functioning of the main hydrological plants in the country. And that is just an idea of how this new trend of ever present extreme weather events is impacting the local economy in South America. 
 
For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON: All right. Meanwhile, Iceland's volcanoes can be deadly destructive and also beautiful. But, can they also be green? Icelandic scientists are working to harness the intense energy stored beneath the surface of the Earth, an energy which is completely clean. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): The awesome power of nature on full display in southwest Iceland. The Reykjanes Peninsula close to the capital suffering a string of violent volcanic eruptions in the past years. Iceland's massive activity, both a burden and a blessing for those who live here. The town Grindavik, close to the eruption site, evacuated, the fissure running right through the streets and the houses. Klara Halldorsdottir, one of the more than 3,000 residents evacuated last November, says she has had enough and will never move back. 
 
KLARA HALLDORSDOTTIR, FORMER GRINDAVIK RESIDENT: I get goosebumps when I talk about it because it was really, really strange. There is long lines of cars exiting town. It was like in a terrible movie or something.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): When things appear to get more calm, a few months later, another violent eruption occurs, as the Reykjanes Peninsula seems to have entered into a period of high volcanic activity that could last months, years or even centuries, experts say. Keeping the specialist at Iceland's Meteorological Office tasked with predicting eruptions, busy round the clock.
 
SARA BARSOTTI, ICELANDIC METEOROLOGICAL OFFICE: The GPS station, they are telling us, if the ground is changing, it is the forming. We are maintaining the geochemical monitoring that is telling us which are the kinds of gases that are leaving the volcanoes. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): While volcanoes often have an impact on life here in Iceland, the Icelanders have found ways to harness the power of our violent Earth. Geothermal power plants feeding off the heat, providing emission-free energy in abundance, and leaving companies from around the world to move energy-intensive manufacturing, like aluminum production, to Iceland. 
 
Our team traveled all the way to the northeast of Iceland to the Krafla geothermal plant. When drilling a new borehole here at Krafla, they accidentally hit a shallow magma chamber and now are working on harnessing the Earth's energy almost directly from the extremely hot magma. The project's director says this technology could provide clean energy for hundreds of millions of people.
 
HJALTI PALL INGOLFSSON, KRAFLA MAGMA TESTBED: We have a very big part of humanity living close to a volcano. And if we are able to harness the volcano directly, reducing the risk by lowering the pressure and lowering the tension in the volcano, then, of course, we have a win- win situation.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Using the Earth's natural energy without burning fossil fuels, the scientists acknowledge there is still a long way to go and a lot to be learned. But, they also believe the potential energy supply could be virtually limitless and totally clean. 
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Berlin.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON: Our thanks to Fred there.
 
Environmental protesters have spray painted one of the world's most famous prehistoric monuments. Stonehenge in England was covered in orange paint on Wednesday by two activists from the group called "Just Stop Oil". Both were arrested but then released on bail pending the investigation. "Just Stop Oil" wants the UK government to phase out fossil fuels by 2030. You might remember, the group also made headlines last month when protesters smashed the glass protecting the Magna Carta at the British Museum in London. Stonehenge will be open for summer solstice celebrations as normal after the orange paint that the environmental activists sprayed on the landmark was then removed. 
 
All right. Still to come, the biggest star in football is ready for the start of another major international tournament. A preview of the Copa America, when we come back.
 <br>[08:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back. Copa America 2024 for kicks off tonight when Argentina faces Canada in Atlanta, and all eyes will be on Lionel Messi and defending champion Argentina. The country has already won the title 15 times. Matches will be held across 14 cities in the U.S. Now, this is the second time the tournament has been hosted outside of South America. Ecuador was originally designated as the tournament host but then they pulled out in November 2022 due to economic and security concerns. Patrick Snell outside the stadium where the opening match will be
 
 held. So, Patrick, good to see you. Argentina the favorites here. But, who are the other contenders?
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: Hi there, Rahel. Yeah. Welcome to this wonderful spot we have, right outside the famous Mercedez Benz Stadium. This is going to be a real hub for global football over the next two or three years. The Men's World Cup, of course, coming here in 2026. Next year, we've got the FIFA Club World Cup as well. And then, this summer is Copa America. To answer your question, I would normally be saying Brazil at this point, but I think expectations are around the five-time world champs, are pretty reduced right now, especially without Neymar. I do like the look of a youthful-looking Uruguayan side as well. They also won this tournament 15 times. And of course, Columbia, "Los Cafeteros", one of the most in-form club countrysides in the world. They're on a 23-match unbeaten streak. 
 
But, of course, as you rightly say, Rahel, it is Argentina, the Albiceleste, who are absolutely expected to go on and win this tournament. Why? Well, not only are they the defending champions, not only are they the reigning World Champions, but they have a certain in Lionel Messi to their ranks. The story footballer, Lionel Messi, we think this may well be his last major international tournament for his country. He will turn 37 during this event. He would be turning 39 during the 2026 World Cup. I do think he still potentially has a part to play for his country in that World Cup. Time will tell. But, he did win the World Cup finally with his country in 2022 in Qatar. That was the one international prize he cherished more than any other. 
 
I've got some great video I want to get to you, Rahel, from the very heart of downtown Atlanta, just a couple of miles away from where we are. These are Argentina fans right in the center of the downtown district, right here in Atlanta. And you can just see, more than 24 hours out, the passion that they have around this game. Fans outside the Argentina hotel as well taking in their training sessions. Argentina in good form as well coming into this. They beat Ecuador recently and they beat Guatemala 4-1 very comfortably, with two goals from you know who, Lionel Messi. 
 
Let's hear now from the Albiceleste head coach Lionel Scaloni, Argentina, very much the team to beat. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIONEL SCALONI, ARGENTINA MANAGER (Interpreted): We are fine with clear ideas and knowing how difficult this tournament is. We will try as always to do our best and what we believe is the best for the team at this moment in time. It will be a very difficult Copa America, as it always is. So, we are prepared for what is to come.
 
ALPHONSO DAVIES, CANADA CAPTAIN: I think we prepared well for this game. And our mindset is strong. We're going out there playing against the World Cup champions, and that's motivation for us, and obviously, just to win this game and then try to move on.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) SNELL: Yeah. I think many expectations on Alphonso Davies, Rahel. Canada are tournament debutantes. I do feel goals will be hard to come by for them against Argentina. And they do want to put on a show, though, because I mentioned earlier, they are one of the three co- hosts for the 2026 World Cup, along with the United States and Mexico. 
 <br>[08:55:00]
 
SOLOMON: Well, Patrick, to that point, I mean, there is certainly a lot to watch on the field, but there is a lot to watch off the field as well, because you could argue this is really seen as or being seen as a test of how the U.S. will do as the co-host of the 2026 World Cup.
 
SNELL: Yeah. Absolutely. You're spot on. America did host this tournament in 2016. They do want to put on a show as well, because they say this whole -- the America is such a hotbed of the global game at the moment, Rahel. We've got this tournament, the Copa America, the expanded Club World Cup that FIFA runs, that is going to be next year right here in the United States, and then the World Cup in 2026. This is the place to be when it comes to the beautiful game over the next two or three years in terms of international football. 
 
I do think though, yes, America has some great generational talents like Christian Pulisic. But, they only got to the round of 16 in the World Cup in Qatar in 2022. I think for them, this time around, let's say a quarterfinal finish, getting to the quarterfinals would be an excellent achievement for this American team. We shall see. Back to you. 
 
SOLOMON: We shall see. Time will tell. Patrick Snell live for us in Atlanta. Patrick, thank you. 
 
And thank you for joining me here on CNN Newsroom today. I'm Rahel Solomon. Connect the World with Becky Anderson is coming up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)