Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Trump Says "War Hawk" Liz Cheney Should Be Fired Upon; Trump And Harris In Wisconsin; Harris And Trump Neck-And-Neck In Pennsylvania; Russia Behind Election Disinformation Videos; Spain's Flood Kills More Than 200 People; U.S. Economy Just Adding 12K Jobs In October; U.S. Election To Shape Climate Crisis; "Stop The Steal" Movement Is Preparing To Challenge Vote Results If Trump Loses; U.S. Historian Predicts Presidential Election Winner; Life In The Fast Lane For E-Scooter Brand Infinite Machine; Dodgers Parade Through The Streets Of L.A. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired November 01, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: Not China wins the competition for the 21st century.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Now, Jake, when you talk to U.S. allies, of course, they are incredibly concerned about what Trump's 
 
 foreign policies would mean for their relationships with the United States, but they also have questions about what Harris' policies would actually 
 
 look like given she hasn't differentiated herself so much from the Biden administration to date.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Not at all. Kylie Atwood, thanks so much. The news continues on CNN with Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room. I will see you 
 
 Monday morning.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE: 3:00 p.m. in Los Angeles, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And wherever you are in 
 
 the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome as always to "First Move." And here's today's need to know. Warring words. Donald Trump calling his Republican critic Liz Cheney 
 
 a radical war hawk and suggesting she might feel differently with "nine barrels shooting at her," quote. Jarring jobs report. The U.S. economy 
 
 adding just 12,000 jobs net in October, impacted by storms, strikes, and potentially slower hiring. Titans and traffic. The Dodgers parade through 
 
 the streets of L.A. to celebrate their eighth World Series title. And cybertruck style scooters. The New York based startup aiming to be the 
 
 future of urban transit. That conversation and plenty more coming up.
 
But first, it is the final weekend before election day here in the United States, and Republican nominee Donald Trump once again in the spotlight, 
 
 this time for attacking one of his Republican critics, Liz Cheney. Just take a listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: She's a radical war hawk. Let's put her with a rifle standing there with 
 
 nine barrels shooting at her, OK? Let's see how she feels about it. You know, when the guns are trained on her face. You know, they're all war 
 
 hawks when they're sitting in Washington in a nice building saying, oh, gee, well, let's send 10,000 troops right into the mouth of the enemy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Trump also calling the former lawmaker, quote, "stupid" a number of times. Cheney was part of the investigation by Congress into the 
 
 January 6th Capitol attack. Trump made the comments during a conversation actually about her father, Former Vice President Dick Cheney.
 
Now, Liz Cheney responded on X saying, quote, "This is how dictators destroy free nations They threaten those who speak against them with 
 
 death."
 
Democratic Nominee Kamala Harris also weighed in from the campaign trail, calling Liz Cheney a patriot.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT AND U.S. PRESIDENTIAL DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE: He has increased his violent rhetoric, Donald Trump has, about 
 
 political opponents, and in great detail, in great detail suggested rifles should be trained on Former Representative Liz Cheney. This must be 
 
 disqualifying. Anyone who wants to be president of the United States who uses that kind of violent rhetoric is clearly disqualified and unqualified 
 
 to be president.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, the Trump campaign issued its own statement saying in part, quote, "Warmongers like Liz Cheney are very quick to start wars and 
 
 send other Americans to fight them rather than go into combat themselves."
 
Jackie Kucinich is the Washington bureau chief for the Boston Globe and she joins us now. Jackie, great to have you with us. I think that context from 
 
 the campaign was important, but it is quite rare, let's be clear, for the former president to clarify or explain anything himself, but he seemed to 
 
 choose to do so in this case. Why? Why do you think this mattered more than perhaps other comments he's made?
 
JACKIE KUCINICH, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST AND WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF, THE BOSTON GLOBE: Well, it's the latest in a series of not great will go with 
 
 headlines for the former president. I mean, we started the week with that comedian telling, you know, what he said was a joke about Puerto Rico, 
 
 calling it garbage. And that sort of started and continued throughout the week.
 
But listen, this -- when you have incidents like this rhetoric, it is reminding people, particularly suburban women, who he needs to convince to 
 
 vote for him this cycle, of what they didn't like to begin with and -- what they didn't like and why they chose to move on the last time from Former 
 
 President Trump. When he's not talking about the economy, when he's not talking about immigration that -- and he's completely off message, that is 
 
 problematic, particularly this close to actual Election Day.
 
CHATTERLEY: Is she a warmonger, by the way, Jackie? Just to clarify that point. I mean, in the biggest scheme of things, perhaps it's not important, 
 
 but the clarification perhaps is.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
KUCINICH: I mean, that is the word that the former president used. Certainly, Liz Cheney is a hawk. But that is a -- you don't say warmonger 
 
 in a way that would -- I don't know, that is an insult, but I think we would call someone like Liz Cheney a defense hawk, someone who is very pro-
 
 military, and that's how she voted when she was in Congress.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, but I think the clarification is important. Look, we know that millions of Americans still believe that the election was stolen four 
 
 years ago. Our Donie O'Sullivan has been reporting that a number of Trump supporters are continuing to watch a diet that suggests that the only way 
 
 to the former president can lose this election is if it's stolen from him.
 
Jackie, I'm sure you're having conversations among both your colleagues and friends at this stage that we can't know the future result today. And if 
 
 certainly by looking at the polls, it's very difficult to tell one way or the other. What's the concern today? And what's the fear? And what is the 
 
 discussion about what happens if neither Trump nor Harris has a decisive victory in this election, whether it's next week or it takes a bit of time 
 
 to get to a final result?
 
KUCINICH: So, what we've heard, particularly from secretaries of states in these swing states, where we know it's going to come down to the wire, or 
 
 that is what all the polling indicates, is that they have been really trying to get the word out that we might not know Election Day, and that 
 
 necessarily isn't a bad thing because they're counting every vote.
 
In states like Massachusetts, where the Boston Globe is, in Washington and District of Columbia, where I am, the margins are so wide that they -- that 
 
 you can -- you know, CNN will call them on election night, but when you get down to these swing states, every vote counts, every vote counts 
 
 everywhere, but particularly in swing states, because you have these tiny margins that really make all the difference.
 
So, that that is going to be used certainly, particularly by the right, to sow discontent. Former President Trump and his supporters have been saying 
 
 things like this basically since he popped back into the race in 2022. But when you speak to the people on the ground and the election officials that 
 
 are running these contests at the state level, they're doing everything they possibly can to be transparent, inviting people to come see the 
 
 process and the -- and how votes are counted, really to make sure that there is a smooth and safe election night, which is, I think, what 
 
 everybody here wants.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, hear, hear. Jackie Kucinich, Washington Bureau chief for the Boston Globe, thank you.
 
Now, four days to go, four years on the line and it's still neck-and-neck in one of the most important swing states. New CNN polling suggests Harris 
 
 and Trump are tied with 48 percent of support in Pennsylvania and that's a critical battleground state with a whopping 19 electoral votes at play.
 
This week, Trump made unfounded claims of voter fraud in Pennsylvania. Officials there refute that and say they are investigating any issues. Kim 
 
 Lyons is the editor of the Pennsylvania Capital Star, and she joins us now.
 
Kim, just give us a sense, first and foremost, and we'll talk about some of the issues I know and what you're reporting on, but just what it's been 
 
 like to live and report in Pennsylvania, particularly over the last month.
 
KIM LYONS, EDITOR, PENNSYLVANIA CAPITAL STAR: It has felt like a battleground, I will say. I think people are very, very tired of all of the 
 
 political ads, all of the mailers that they get, all the sort of focus and spotlight on -- particularly in the two largest cities, Pittsburgh and 
 
 Philadelphia. People I think are -- they feel the responsibility, the weight of this responsibility, but I think people are feeling pretty worn 
 
 out.
 
You know, I've tried to encourage people, don't sort of get discouraged now. This is really the point at which you have to kind of make a decision 
 
 and step up. But I do think people are feeling quite weary and really feeling like they are in a battleground.
 
CHATTERLEY: You know, we've been talking to reporters in the battleground states all weekend, that's the consistent message. Actually, everybody 
 
 feels bombarded and exhausted. So, you're echoing what others are saying.
 
Talk to us about what's going on with mail-in ballots, because I've read a number of stories about challenges, concerns, people not understanding 
 
 what's going on. Tell us the challenges that you're facing and what the rules are.
 
LYONS: Yes. Yes. So, I think that is the biggest issue of concern right now, that people seem to have a lot of confusion over mail ballots. Now, 
 
 mind you, this is -- it dates back to 2020, that we have a law in place where you must sign and date the exterior envelope on your mail ballot. 
 
 There's been a lot of -- there's actually some lawsuits in effect or in the courts right now to determine whether if someone leaves the date off that 
 
 external envelope their -- that their ballot should be counted by state law, they're supposed to include it. But a lot of voting rights groups have 
 
 said this is immaterial to the vote. It shouldn't count.
 
So, that is something we're still battling out. And I think we're going to -- since the legislature, the state legislature did not take action to make 
 
 any adjustments to the law, they're the only ones who can do so legally, that it's still as it was in 2020. There's a lot of confusion, a lot of, 
 
 you know, back and forth about the date on the outside envelope.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
It's -- all things to be, you know, people to have a consternation about it, it would seem to be the most likely. The other thing we're dealing with 
 
 this year, particularly, and we've had several cases in Bucks County, which is right outside of Philadelphia, it's considered a purple county, could go 
 
 Democratic or Republican, really could go either way. And the issue there this week was confusion about early voting. Pennsylvania law does not allow 
 
 early voting like some other states do, where you can go in and vote ahead of Election Day.
 
In Pennsylvania, people can cast their mail ballot early. They can turn that in, but clerks in election offices around the state cannot open those 
 
 ballots until Election Day. So, people were thinking that they could -- they were voting early, you know, going in casting their vote, not 
 
 realizing that, in fact, what they were doing was sometimes will let you print out -- they'll print the ballot for you, hand it to you, you fill it 
 
 out, put it in the envelopes, give it back to them, and then they record it. Again, they can't open it.
 
So, there's a lot of confusion about what we have for early voting in Pennsylvania. It's very different than other states. And I think a little 
 
 unnecessarily confusing. There was a case that the Trump campaign actually sued and won just -- this just happened this week, where Bucks County was 
 
 allowed to extend the deadline for people to apply for a mail ballot that ended today at 5 p.m. Eastern. I suspect we're going to see more kind of 
 
 consternation about this.
 
Mail ballots are the top issue. There's many different problems. Erie County, for example, a lot of people -- it's numbering up to something like 
 
 20,000 people still have not received their mail ballots. There's a lot of issues with mail ballots. It's not just one issue. It's really sort of 
 
 confounding that we're still sort of in the same place we were in 2020 because we, you know, just sort of failed to change the law and make things 
 
 a little more easy for people to understand.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, very quickly. We've just got breaking news that the Pennsylvania Supreme Court is saying that ballots that are missing the 
 
 correct date won't be counted in this election. Any sense of the impact of that ruling, Kim, just very quickly? I have around 30 seconds.
 
LYONS: Everyone's going to be confused. I don't think anyone has really a grasp on what they're supposed to do. So, I think there's going to be a lot 
 
 of confusion on Election Day.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, good luck handling this and trying to sort fact from fiction as well, because it does muddy the picture, doesn't it? Kim, it's a 
 
 challenge. Hang in there.
 
LYONS: It certainly does.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Kim Lyons, thank you.
 
LYONS: Thank you so much.
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, as early votes are being counted around the country, the U.S. Intelligence Community once again accusing Russia of trying to 
 
 interfere with this election. In a joint statement, multiple agencies say, quote, "Russian influence actors created a series of election 
 
 disinformation videos recently, and more on the way."
 
Cyber Security Reporter Sean Lyngaas. This is on the story and he joins us now from Washington. Sean, it breaks my heart that eight years on from 2016 
 
 when we saw a lot of this that we haven't done a better job of containing it, even if we are seeing it and flagging it. Tell us more on what more is 
 
 expected, perhaps most importantly.
 
SEAN LYNGAAS, CNN CYBERSECURITY REPORTER: Well, I'm sorry that you're heartbroken, Julia. I'll try to give you some optimism here.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Thank you.
 
LYNGAAS: It is -- we do sound like a broken record here, reporting some of this stuff as if nothing has changed. In the positive column, we have a lot 
 
 of people more aggressively calling out this fake video, whether it be the Secretary of State of Georgia, a Republican, or academic researchers, 
 
 people are outraged but not surprised that Russian actors would try this on the eve of the election.
 
This is the second time in as many weeks that the intelligence agencies here in the United States have been very quick by their standards. 
 
 Certainly, you know, within a day of the video emerging on social media, platform X, they aggressively said, this is -- we have evidence that this 
 
 is a Russian actor.
 
But as you said up top, this is kind of the same old story of shenanigans on the eve of the election. And right now, in 2024, compared to 2020 or 
 
 2016, it's a lot easier to spread this stuff, unfortunately, online. You have deep fake technologies, you have social media platforms, particularly 
 
 X, that have made it easier to spread this disinformation, and you have a susceptible American electorate, many of whom unfortunately do not trust 
 
 election integrity, are yet to be convinced despite all of the evidence that it is a safe and secure election, who are buying into some of this 
 
 stuff.
 
Last night, we had a Republican official in Georgia who was spreading the Russian disinformation despite the pleas from state officials. So, Julia, 
 
 it's a very chaotic information environment. The best we can do is get on TV and tell people the truth that that was fake, that that was nonsense. 
 
 But we're probably going to see more of that in the final days of the election and in the crucial days after Election Day when votes are still 
 
 being tallied and perhaps weeks after, all the way up until certification.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
So, we're buckling up here in Washington for a very tense several days of falsehoods and viral election lies and efforts to combat them, which we 
 
 here are doing and which people across the country are doing. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Sean, very quickly, and it's OK if the answer's no, do you have any sense of how many millions of people have seen these fake videos 
 
 that have been created?
 
LYNGAAS: I don't have an exact number for you.
 
CHATTERLEY: No.
 
LYNGAAS: But unfortunately, the number is quite high. It's -- these things go viral and there was a plea with Elon Musk to take them down. I believe 
 
 some of the videos have been taken down finally, but not soon enough for many people.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, because the reason why I'm heartbroken is because Eric Schmidt, the former Google chairman, told us in an interview a while ago 
 
 that we don't know why, but when people watch misinformation, their brain changes, even if they know it's fake, their brain changes. We don't 
 
 understand why, but it's a problem. And this is why it sort of scares me.
 
LYNGAAS: I would agree.
 
CHATTERLEY: Sean -- yes. Great to have you on. Thank you. Sean Lyngaas there. Now, in Southeastern Spain, the death toll from the devastating 
 
 flash floods has surpassed 200 people, and authorities warn it is likely still to rise.
 
Rescue and cleanup operations remain underway, with the government now deploying 1,700 soldiers. It's already the deadliest flood related disaster 
 
 to hit Europe in decades. Atika Shubert went to the affected areas to take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ATIKA SHUBERT, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In a dystopian scene of Spain's deadliest floods in decades, dozens of cars and debris are 
 
 piled on top of what was a railroad in Eastern Spain.
 
With a year's worth of rainfall plummeting down in just hours on Tuesday, hundreds of people have been killed, according to authorities. And the 
 
 death toll is only expected to rise. The extreme weather has caused a surge of water to break bridges, damaging homes and cars along the way. With the 
 
 floods turning grey roads into a muddy brown, these satellite images taken less than two weeks apart show the sheer level of destruction the floods 
 
 have left behind.
 
But now, armed with broomsticks and shovels, locals have been coming in droves to clean up the streets. Some tell us how they turned up just to 
 
 help.
 
TANIA, LOCAL VOLUNTEER: We wanted to help because we know there's a lot of people suffering. So, we told to our friends and we decided to buy food, 
 
 bring clothes and everything and water.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): There have been widespread concerns about official warning systems, many residents saying they were alerted too late.
 
VALENTIN MANZANEQUE FERNANDEZ, LOCAL VOLUNTEER (through translator): The storm hit in the morning, but the water didn't get towards until 8:00 in 
 
 the evening, yet nobody warned us, nothing. Nobody cared. At 70 years old, I had to go with these old clothes to change, but I haven't even been able 
 
 to take a shower.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): This children's school was also affected by the tragedy, its interior severely damaged.
 
SHUBERT: You can see just how high the waters were, more than chest high, higher than a child. And this is a school, all of this equipment we are 
 
 told is brand-new, and it's been completely destroyed by the mud and the flooding from the river.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has called this Spain's worst natural disaster in a century. And E.U. officials warned of 
 
 the flood's wider implication.
 
FLORIKA FINK-HOOIJER, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, EUROPEAN COMMISSION ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT: A tragedy like this one is not just a Spanish one, it really 
 
 affects all of us in Europe.
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): In the wake of the destruction, the Spanish government says it has deployed more than a thousand soldiers to help the 
 
 cleanup and rescue efforts. But as more rainfall is expected in the coming days meteorologists say this human made crisis is only going to get worse.
 
Atika Shubert for CNN in Valencia, Spain.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Coming up on "First Move," jobs jumble. A disappointing but caveat filled employment report four days before the presidential election. 
 
 Traders saying ignore it, but will voters?
 
And presidential pick, a political historian is out with his final prediction on who will win the White House using his surprisingly accurate 
 
 method. Trump or Harris? He'll tell all. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." And TGIF for all our viewers in the United States, U.K., and Latin America, we made it, almost. And a happy 
 
 Saturday morning to everyone waking up with us across Asia, too.
 
In today's Money Move, stock markets splendor on the 1st of November. U.S. stocks getting a lift into the weekend as investors look past a weak but 
 
 extremely noisy U.S. market jobs report. The final piece of major economic news before Election Day showing just 12,000 jobs added to the U.S. economy 
 
 last month, net way below estimates, but dragged significantly lower, we think, by temporary factors like strikes and hurricanes. The real question 
 
 is how much the labor market slowing does that include? And for that we have to wait till next month's data.
 
Now, today's report also pretty much ensuring another Fed rate cut next week, silver linings, leaving stock investors more focused on strong profit 
 
 reports. Plus, bond yields rising, something that wouldn't happen if there was real concern about future economic weakness.
 
Also, big news for tech investors after Friday's closing bell, call it a chip change. A.I. chip giant, NVIDIA, will become a member of the Dow 
 
 Industrials next Friday, replacing another chip firm, Intel. And a mixed picture in Asia on Friday. The Nikkei falling 2.5 percent. The Shanghai 
 
 Composite pulling back a little bit, as you can see there too. And all eyes will be on China's top legislative body next week. Reports are suggesting 
 
 it's poised to approve new fiscal stimulus measures, possibly the issuance of almost one and $1.5 trillion worth of new debt. So, we'll watch for 
 
 that.
 
And back to the presidential race. It didn't take long. The stark policy differences between Harris and Trump on the critical issue of the 
 
 environment. Voters will choose between a former president who's a climate change skeptic and a vice president whose administration supports major 
 
 green energy initiatives, as Bill Weir reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): On the devastated West Coast of Florida, where back-to-back hurricanes have upended life for so 
 
 many, Susan Glickman takes stock.
 
SUSAN GLICKMAN, VP OF POLICY AND PARTNERSHIPS, CLEO INSTITUTE: Before Hurricane Helene, we had huge sand dunes here and those all washed out to 
 
 sea.
 
WEIR (voice-over): And she swirls with both worry for the future and anger over the decisions of the past.
 
GLICKMAN: In 1965, President Lyndon Baines Johnson, three weeks after his inauguration, said this generation is altering the composition of the 
 
 Earth's atmosphere by burning fossil fuels. So, in anybody's book, we have known about this for a very long time.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
WEIR (voice-over): After an early career fighting the tobacco industry, Susan now works in climate education and sees how decades of deliberate 
 
 misinformation by polluting industries has filled her neighbors with confusion and doubt.
 
SANDY DAUGHTRY, PINELLAS COUNTY, FLORIDA RESIDENT: Maybe it's just a hundred-year cycle or, you know, some kind of a cycle that we go through.
 
WEIR: Even though all the scientists are telling you this is what climate change looks like?
 
DAUGHTRY: Well, yes. Well, that's the point. I'm not sure all the scientists are in agreement.
 
WEIR (voice-over): That skepticism mirrors Former President Donald Trump.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It'll start getting cooler.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I wish -- 
 
TRUMP: You just watch.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I wish science agreed with you.
 
TRUMP: Well, I don't think science knows actually.
 
WEIR (voice-over): Two years after Vice President Kamala Harris cast the tiebreaking vote on the Inflation Reduction Act, there are tighter 
 
 regulations on polluters, and hundreds of billions of public and private investment are flowing into the climate fight, mostly in Republican 
 
 districts. Solar, wind, and storage are now so cheap that Texas leads the nation in clean energy installations.
 
But Trump is vowing to undo as much of it as he can on day one, which concerns one of the world's most active climate investors.
 
WEIR: You lobbied for the Inflation Reduction Act. How would you assess it's working now?
 
BILL GATES, FOUNDER, BREAKTHROUGH ENERGY: I'd give it a high grade so far. We need -- you know, we need some understanding of what constant policy 
 
 looks like because stop and go for things that involve 2030 or plant investments, you -- you'll just scare the whole industry away from a 
 
 country that's inconsistent.
 
GLICKMAN: It's very simple. This is about parts per million of carbon in the atmosphere and that's warming the Gulf. It's supercharging storms. It's 
 
 melting glaciers and ice sheets and raising the sea rise. And here we are.
 
WEIR (voice-over): Bill Weir, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Our thanks to Bill Weir there. We'll be right back. Stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. Israel's military said on Friday it had 
 
 struck Hezbollah targets in Beirut and Southern Lebanon. Lebanon reported that Israeli warplanes executed "intense airstrikes," quote, on southern 
 
 Beirut that had caused, quote, "massive destruction" with dozens of buildings leveled.
 
Meanwhile, a U.S. delegation returned from the region after making no concrete progress on a range of issues.
 
A federal judge sent the case over Elon Musk's million-dollar giveaway to registered voters back to state court. The case had been moved to the 
 
 federal level at the request of Musk and his Super PAC. The Philadelphia district attorney brought the case saying the program amounted to paying 
 
 people to register to vote.
 
Striking Boeing workers announced plans to vote Monday on a new contract offer. It would include a 43 percent pay rise over four years and a bigger 
 
 signing bonus. Factory workers have voted down two previous offers from Boeing.
 
Now, more than 66 million people have already voted in the U.S. presidential election and it's even not yet Election Day. Yet some Trump 
 
 supporters are worrying about voter fraud and making claims about a rigged election. Our Donie O'Sullivan looks at what that might mean next week.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's like how much theft can they get away with in order to prevent Trump from winning?
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Do you think he's going to win?
 
ENRIQUE, TRUMP SUPPORTER: If we have a fair election, yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN: There's no way he can lose fairly?
 
ENRIQUE: Fairly, there's no way he can lose.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): MAGA World is preparing its followers for a stolen election.
 
GREG STENSTROM, AUTHOR: They're just going to announce Harris is the winner. We're going to go, we win, again. And not try to stop us, again. 
 
 And what's different this time is we're going to be able to stop them.
 
MARK BURNS, PASTOR: Is there anybody here in North Carolina ready to take this nation back by any means necessary? Say yes, yes, yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): They're laying out step-by-step plans to overturn a potential Harris victory. These are not random Trump supporters, these 
 
 are influential figures in the MAGA movement.
 
IVAN RAIKLIN, MAGA ACTIVIST: It's all going to depend on what they end up doing. I have a plan and strategy for every single component of it, and 
 
 then January 6th is going to be pretty fun.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Many of them, like Ivan Raiklin and Michael Flynn, have huge audiences online, and are involved in election denying groups 
 
 that have spent millions of dollars furthering election conspiracy theories.
 
MICHAEL FLYNN, FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: And we should know, by Tuesday night, by about 9:00 or 10:00 at night, that one party won.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Election officials across the country have explained that we likely won't know the full results on election night. To 
 
 conspiracy theorists, however, that is a sign of fraud.
 
FLYNN: In this case, I strongly believe that Donald Trump, if this thing is a fair election, he'll win all 50 states.
 
RAIKLIN: Now, if it's legit, we don't have to worry, right? Well, who thinks it's going to be legit? You think they're just going to give it to 
 
 you? No. This is going to be a fight.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Raiklin has encouraged people to pressure their state representatives not to certify election results if they suspect 
 
 fraud.
 
RAIKLIN: We try to play fair, they steal it. Our state legislatures are our final stop to guarantee a checkmate. Be prepared on January 1st to apply 
 
 the maximum motivation to your state reps, state senators.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): In North Carolina, he and another right-wing activist are going as far to say there should be no election because of the 
 
 destruction after Hurricane Helene. They say the Republican controlled state legislature should decide which presidential candidates gets their 
 
 Electoral College votes.
 
NOEL FRITSCH, NATIONAL FILE BLOG: We don't have to do this popular vote in the state stuff or this federal election. We don't have to do it.
 
RAIKLIN: You got 120 House reps. How many of those are Republican? The majority. How about a significant majority? So, then how is the House body 
 
 going to likely vote with your motivation for the Republican nominee? What about the Senate? Majority?
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): The idea is fringe and it is extreme, but a Republican congressman endorsed the idea at an event with Raiklin.
 
REP. ANDY HARRIS (R-MD), CHAIRMAN, FREEDOM CAUCUS: It was, hey, look, you got disenfranchised in 25 counties, you know what that vote probably 
 
 would've been -- which of which would be if I were in the legislation enough to go, yes, we have to convene the legislation. We can --
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Before eventually walking it back. The idea that the only way Harris can win is if the election is stolen is being pushed 
 
 across hundreds of MAGA media outlets and from the former president himself.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Because they cheat, that's the only way we're going to lose because they 
 
 cheat.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): And it's convincing his base.
 
O'SULLIVAN: What if the results show that Harris won? Do you think Trump will accept that?
 
JUDY, TRUMP SUPPORTER: I don't think anybody will accept that because we know it's going to be a lie. But if that's what it is, it's what it is. 
 
 We'll go from there. We'll see what happens.
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yes.
 
JUDY: So, I just don't think that Trump's going to lose.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
O'SULLIVAN: You think he won last time?
 
JUDY: Oh, definitely.
 
O'SULLIVAN: What happens if he loses?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If he loses --
 
GINA, TRUMP SUPPORTER: We're all going down January 6th.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, if someone told you there may be a highly accurate way to predict who will win next week's all-important U.S. presidential race, 
 
 chances are I think you'd pay extremely close attention. And that's why so many people hang on to every word from Alan Lichtman. He's an American 
 
 historian who claims to have successfully called pretty much every U.S. presidential race in the past 40 years based on 13 key data points.
 
And they include whether the economy is in recession during the election cycle, whether growth is strong compared to the prior two terms, whether 
 
 the incumbent administration has made big changes to foreign or domestic policy, and whether there's been social unrest during the term, and whether 
 
 the incumbent party is embroiled in scandal. That's just to name a few, by the way.
 
Lichtman says adding up who has enough keys to win leads him to believe that Kamala Harris will become the 47th president of the United States. And 
 
 I'm excited to say Alan Lichtman joins us now. Alan, welcome to the show. Thank you so much for your time.
 
First and foremost, for viewers who may not be familiar with your keys, why are these 13 keys superior in your mind to looking at the polls, for 
 
 example?
 
ALAN LICHTMAN, U.S. PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN AND DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF HISTORY, AMERICAN UNIVERSITY: Yes. Thank you. The keys have been right 
 
 since I predicted Ronald Reagan's re-election in April 1982, when 60 percent of Americans thought he was too old to run again, and the polls 
 
 showed his approval rating was historically low. That wasn't the first time. I've many times predicted wins in contradiction to the polls, 
 
 including 2016, when I predicted Trump and when the most eminent compiler of polls, the Princeton University Consortium, had a 99 percent chance that 
 
 Hillary would win. This also shows my system is totally nonpartisan.
 
I predicted Reagan and Trump, the two most conservative presidents of our time, as well as a liberal like Obama. And retrospectively in development, 
 
 the keys go all the way back to the horse and buggy days of politics when Abraham Lincoln was elected.
 
What makes the keys different and so successful? They ignore the pundits. They're my buddies, but they have no scientific basis for predicting 
 
 elections, as we saw in 2016. I don't follow the horse race polls. They're snapshots. They're abused as predictors. Rather, my keys, which were 
 
 developed by examining every presidential election from 1860 to 1980, I developed them in '81, tap into the fundamental forces that explain how 
 
 American presidential elections really work as votes up or down on the strength and performance of the White House party.
 
They're the only system that's been right for 40 years that's based on historical analysis, going back to Abraham Lincoln, and it includes a very 
 
 wide range of indicators, 13 of them, and you hinted to some of them.
 
CHATTERLEY: And that's what's quite interesting. And you said it perfectly, I think, which is it's a snapshot in time, which is why -- and obviously my 
 
 background is a sort of business journalist, it makes me most interested in those. What allowances do you make for what has been so unique to this 
 
 administration? And we've seen it in others admittedly for the cost-of- living crisis and the inflation spike that we've seen and the impact of sentiment over the course of the administration, because some might say 
 
 some of this is subjective. I'd call it probably better a question of judgment.
 
LICHTMAN: Exactly. The keys are not subjective. They're tightly defined, like there's no recession in the election year, that's not subjective. And 
 
 I've answered every key since 1860. Look, every day I get lots of people saying, oh, we need to redefine your short-term economic key as an 
 
 inflation key or a vote of sentiment key, and my answer is always simple. I did not just pull these keys out of the air. They're consistent with the 
 
 last 160 years of American politics, and they're not individual indicators, but they've been proven along with the other indicators, 13 in all, to be 
 
 very successful, retrospectively and prospectively in predicting elections.
 
And I tell these folks, if you want to develop your own predictive system based on something else, go right ahead. But you can't take my system and 
 
 change it. If you want to use my system, you've got to stick to how the keys are defined very tightly. And by the way, none of these critics ever 
 
 developed their own system.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I was going to say, forgive me, because I'm going to try another one very quickly. You know, I'm a fundamental believer in looking 
 
 at history and what that can tell us about the future. But the world has changed so dramatically over the last decade or so with social media and 
 
 misinformation or disinformation.
 
So, how do you handle those that look at this and say, do you need to perhaps add another key for that, for the impact of social media and for 
 
 mis and disinformation in particular?
 
LICHTMAN: I have two answers. One, you can't change a prediction system that's based on 160 years on the fly. 2008, the critic said, America is not 
 
 ready to elect an African American. You've got to change your key or in 2016 people said, oh, my God, we've never had a candidate openly bragging 
 
 about sexually assaulting women, got to change your keys. Of course, I didn't. If I had, I would have been wrong instead of right about those two 
 
 elections.
 
The other point is the keys go all the way back developmentally to 1860. We had no radio, no television, no planes, no automobiles, no polls. Women 
 
 couldn't vote. African Americans were enslaved. Many of our demographic groups hadn't even gotten here yet. We're an agricultural society. So, my 
 
 big answer is, the keys have survived enormous changes in our society, our communication, our transportation, our economy, and our demography. That's 
 
 why I don't change them in response to people saying, oh, something new is cropping up this year. You know, my favorite comedian is Gilda Radner, 
 
 whose character said, there's always something.
 
CHATTERLEY: Very quickly, what if Trump wins, Alan?
 
LICHTMAN: Well, I'll have to rethink, of course. That one loss doesn't invalidate a whole system, does it? We'll see.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK.
 
LICHTMAN: Look, unlike -- 
 
CHATTERLEY: Just checking.
 
LICHTMAN: -- the pollsters who give you these bogus probabilities, you know, Nate Silver said in 2016, depending on the time of day, Hillary 
 
 Clinton had a 70 to 80 percent winning. Then when she loses, he said, look, I told you she had a 20 percent plus chance of losing. Meaningless. I tell 
 
 you who's going to win and who's going to lose, so you know if I can be wrong. I'm 77. I've been doing this forever and I still get butterflies in 
 
 my stomach every four years.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. I share those with you. Come back and talk to me whatever happens afterwards, please. We have a reconvening date on this one. Alan, a 
 
 pleasure to talk to you, Sir, thank you.
 
LICHTMAN: You know where to find me.
 
CHATTERLEY: We do. Thank you. All right. Coming up next, imagine a cybertruck, but the scooters, the company that wants to redefine urban 
 
 travel as we know it, coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." A post-car future, that's the bold ambition of the brand behind these cutting-edge electric scooters, 
 
 Infinite Machine. The scooters, channeled a similar style to Tesla's cybertruck, can reach a top speed of 55 miles an hour, or around 88 
 
 kilometers an hour. The fastest, they say, in their class. But they come with a hefty price tag to $10,000 to be precise.
 
However, Infinite Machine wants these vehicles to become the new norm on urban roads, and it seems some investors agree. The company says it's 
 
 raised more than $9 million in initial funding. Infinite Machine, CEO. Joseph Cohen joins us now. He created the brand with his brother Eddie, a 
 
 fellow lifelong vehicle lover.
 
Joseph, fantastic to have you on the show. Just give us the vision and give us the specs in your words.
 
JOSEPH COHEN, CEO, INFINITE MACHINE: Yes, so great to be here. P1 is our ultimate vehicle for New York City. Me, my brother, and a small team of 
 
 designers and engineers thought from the ground up what would be the ultimate vehicle for getting around a city, something that you can cut 
 
 through traffic with, park anywhere that would inspire you and that would make you feel amazing and really enjoy the experience of your day-to-day 
 
 life in a city.
 
And it started as a passion project. We were just building for ourselves. And then we realized, hey, this is amazing. People really love it. And we 
 
 can build a business around this. And really, that the future of transportation in cities was not cars, not even electric cars, but smaller, 
 
 smarter vehicles. And so, we decided, you know what, we're going to take the plunge. We're going to go all in. And yes, that's what we're doing.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Talk to me about charging. Talk to me about speed of charging and how it can be done. Because you can just plug it in at home, I 
 
 believe.
 
COHEN: Totally. So, the battery is fully removable. You take it out, you can bring it to your apartment, you can plug it into a normal outlet. It'll 
 
 take about four to six hours to charge. Leave it overnight. You can do that once a week and it'll last you all week. You get 50 miles on a charge.
 
CHATTERLEY: 50 miles on a charge. OK. So, who's your customer, Joseph? Who do you think's going to buy this? Particularly at $10,000.
 
COHEN: Our customer up front is someone who wants a better way to get around a city, who really appreciates amazing product. We belabored over 
 
 every single detail of this thing, the way it looks, the materials, the performance, the technology. It's a computer on wheels. It's connected to 
 
 the internet. It's got cameras on the front and the back and the ride experience is like nothing you've ever experienced in your life and we made 
 
 something that you love.
 
So, it's for the person who might be in the suburbs would save up for that Porsche or that BMW. This is the expression in a city.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. I've read that you're partnering with an experienced Chinese scooter developer. Are they going to be made in the United States 
 
 or in China? And can you give us the name of who's working on it with you?
 
COHEN: So, I don't know where you got that information, but we are working with a global supply chain to produce the vehicle. And, you know, we're 
 
 really taking the playbook from companies like Apple for how we make the best products and use the best facilities in the world to produce them.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. So, you're sort of hedging. I have my sources. Are you worried about the potential for a Trump election victory in tariffs if you 
 
 have, as you describe it, a global supply chain? What's your contingency plan?
 
COHEN: You know, we've got a bunch of plans. I mean, the way we think about it is we're an American company. We're based here in New York. And we are 
 
 going to embrace that identity as we build what we're doing. And as the economic climate changes and the geopolitical environment changes, we'll be 
 
 at the forefront of it. And, you know, we're in touch with. Folks at all levels of government to, you know, be really a great American company in 
 
 the process.
 
CHATTERLEY: Sounds good. Joseph, we're going to stay in touch. I want to ride one. I want to have a go talking about experience.
 
COHEN: Yes, come out. We're at our new facility.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. It's a date. Joseph Cohen, looking forward to it. Thank you, sir. We'll speak soon.
 
COHEN: I'll make it happen. See you.
 
CHATTERLEY: All right. Coming up, Dodgers deadlock. The Los Angeles Dodgers celebrate their World Series win in the most L.A way possible, traffic. 
 
 More on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." The Los Angeles Dodgers celebrating their World Series win just hours ago after defeating the New 
 
 York Yankees in five games, but they couldn't beat L.A.'s famous traffic jams. Shohei Ohtani among the players baking in the open top buses while 
 
 fans were left waiting at least for a while, though. Soon enough, the parade did get underway.
 
Natasha Chen joins us now from the Dodger Stadium. Never mind sweltering in that parade, Natasha. You were at the party at the Dodger Stadium. Talk us 
 
 through what you saw.
 
NATASHA CHEN, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, what we're seeing now is the confetti being cleaned up, because just a little while ago, all 
 
 these seats were filled. I mean, this stadium was packed with thousands and thousands of fans who had been just dying to celebrate this moment because 
 
 four years ago, they also won the World Series, but nobody got to celebrate because it was 2020. There was no parade.
 
So, this was a very special in-person moment for them. They got to see the team come up on the stage there, have the fans address them. Shohei Ohtani 
 
 brought his dog. So, it was a big family affair. A lot of generations coming here to celebrate.
 
We talked to a man who really went above and beyond in showing his daughter's spirit, as well as a child who said he would remember this for a 
 
 long time. Here they are.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, I also get excited coming out here to just see the smile on the people's faces, the kids, the players, the -- you know, 
 
 all the workers. They love it. They love it. And that's what brings joy to my heart, just to see everyone happy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just seeing, like, Freddie's walk off Grand Slam, like, it's never been done before. And, oh, I'll pass it down to my kids.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHEN: Passing it down to his kids. He's eight years old, by the way. And that man that you earlier saw with all of the Dodgers insignia, that was 
 
 painted onto his body by his wife. He said it took five hours, which is longer than a baseball game itself.
 
CHATTERLEY: I'm stunned into silence by that paint job. That is a wife that loves her husband and a husband that really does love baseball. That's all 
 
 I can say. And I was also, I will admit, slightly caught off guard because you said the magic word there, which was dog and Shohei Ohtani's dog. And 
 
 the dog's name is Decoy and there's no way I'm going to pronounce what the dog is because I can't. It's a Dutch breed. Natasha, it looks like 
 
 everybody had a lot of fun and there was clearly a lot of passion at that back parade and of course in the stadium as well.
 
CHEN: Yes, absolutely. Thank you so much. Everybody is going to remember this for many generations. I'm sure.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, they certainly will. And you can observe the cleanup operations in the interim. Thank you very much for joining us on that. 
 
 Natasha Chen there in Los Angeles.
 
Now, the light has barely gone out of the jack-o'-lanterns, but celebrity singer Mariah Carey, wasting no time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, my goodness. Now, glasses are smashing everywhere. And there it is, the unmistakable voice that signals Christmas time is near. It 
 
 seems Mariah Carey couldn't wait to ditch her Halloween costume and burst out in her signature Christmas couture.
 
It's been 30 years since the Queen of Christmas released the hit song that has come to officially ring in the holiday season.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: All I want for Christmas is you, we all know the words. Well, it's spent 65 weeks on Billboard's Hot 100. Is that all? Is my answer to 
 
 that.
 
And finally, on the "First Move," let the games commence. "Squid Game" is back for its second season. You are looking right now at the official 
 
 trailer, with Netflix saying the next installment will drop on December 26th. The first season of Squid Game became a pop culture sensation back in 
 
 2021. Wow, we've had to wait that long. And this season brings back some fan favorites for more edge of your seat drama. Netflix says there will 
 
 also be a third season out next year. So, it's all coming at once. But sadly, that will be the end of the games once and for all.
 
And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. Have an incredible weekend. Get some rest. Next week could be a busy one.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END