Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Passenger Plane With 67 On Board Crashes In Kazakhstan; Zelenskyy: "Inhumane" Russian Christmas Day Missile Attack; King Charles Pays Tribute To Victims Of War. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired December 25, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
ELENI GIOKOS, HOST, "CNN NEWSROOM": Good morning. Merry Christmas and Happy Hanukkah. I'm Eleni Giokos in New York. Welcome to a special holiday edition of CNN Newsroom. 
 
Now, many Americans are just waking up on this Christmas Day, but celebrations are already underway all around the world. Pope Francis delivers his annual Christmas Day message, calling for an end to conflicts in Ukraine, the Middle East and beyond. Plus, more Christmas celebrations around the world, but in some places, a little less festive than in years past. We'll take you live to Bethlehem as Christians there mark the occasion. We'll also bring you some other international news. Dozens are feared dead after a passenger plane crashes in Kazakhstan, but miraculously, there are survivors. We'll have the latest on the disaster.
 
At least 32 people survived a fiery plane crash in Kazakhstan earlier today, but authorities fear dozens of others on board the Azerbaijani airliner were killed in the disaster. Officials say the flight was en route from the Azerbaijani capital of Baku to the Russian city of Grozny when it crashed near the city of Aktau. One witness says bloodied survivors emerged from the wreckage of the plane, which burst into flames as it hit the ground. All of the survivors, including children, have been taken to hospital. 
 
Former NTSB Managing Director Peter Goelz joins us now, live from Washington. Peter, good to see you. I want to start off with the latest from Russia's aviation watchdog that's saying in a statement, preliminary information suggesting the pilots had decided to make an emergency landing after a bird strike. Given the images that we're seeing, what are you reading on that, and in terms of that being a big probability?
 
PETER GOELZ, FORMER NTSB MANAGING DIRECTOR, &amp; CNN AVIATION ANALYST: Well, in these kinds of tragedies, during the initial hours after them, there are lots of speculation, and I've heard that the bird strike supposition, and it could have been a bird strike. Clearly, the aircraft was not in control. The pilots were fighting it as it came in. We see a video clip that shows a very extreme angle coming down. And if it was a bird strike, it probably involved more than that, because an aircraft like the Embraer, which has a very good safety record, can fly perfectly well without one engine. So, there might have been other damage to the aircraft as well.
 
GIOKOS: Yeah. I mean, looking at the images, you see -- you've seen the aircraft moving erratically, also moving to the right and to the left, clearly having lost control. We've said this, miraculously, people survived. Take us through how this happened, and clearly, it had to do with the tail of the plane coming loose from the actual aircraft?
 
GOELZ: Well, it appeared to be -- it appeared to impact nose first -- 
 
GIOKOS: Yeah.
 
GOELZ: -- and those in the forward section of the plane bore the brunt of the impact. The rear section of the plane broke away and was separated from any fire and simply did not have the impact forces that the front had. So, is miraculous that you've got people in the back of the plane that are able to, in some cases, walk away, while those in the forward section really had a very difficult time. 
 
GIOKOS: Yeah, absolutely. You were talking about perhaps something else going wrong in terms of it being a bird strike, a potential bird strike, and other issues that -- mechanical issues that could have ensued as well. How do you think authorities now, and of course, investigators, are going to be looking at this scenario and wondering what kind of safety measures can be taken going forward?
 
GOELZ: Well, Azerbaijan Airways has a good safety -- 
 
GIOKOS: Yeah.
 
GOELZ: record, and it's respected. It flies into the EU, which means it meets additional safety requirements. It participates in ICAO. It's part of IATA. So, it's a well-respected air carrier. They will conduct an investigation under the guidance of an international organization called ICAO, and you will have the manufacturer of the aircraft, Embraer. 
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
You will have the manufacturers of the engine, which is GE, participating through member countries in this investigation. The key, as always, will be the data recorder and the voice recorder. The voice recorder will tell you what exactly the crew was doing, what they were facing. It will just -- you will hear their decision-making in real time. So, I think this accident will be solved in a fairly short period -- 
 
GIOKOS: Yeah.
 
GOELZ: -- of time. 
 
GIOKOS: I want to go back to this bird strike, and we've seen instances like this occurring in the past. And if you look at the footage, and you see just clearly a total loss of control, how many instances of bird strikes do you see a full-on crash, and how many do you see actually where a pilot is able to emergency land and people come out safely? Of course, we're reminded about the Hudson Miracle, for example. But, give us other instances? 
 
GOELZ: Right. Almost all bird strikes which impact an engine and causes it to be shut down, almost all of them, and without any incident. The plane circles. They declare an emergency, and they land. The crew members train for this. They -- it is part of their recurrent training. The planes are designed to fly perfectly well on one engine. As I say, if this was a bird strike, perhaps some of the engine disintegrated and caused damage to the stabilizer. We won't know until we see the data recorder, till we hear the voice recorder, but it is unusual that a bird strike would take down an aircraft on its own. 
 
GIOKOS: Yeah. Peter Goelz, thank you so much for taking the time today. Good to have you with us, sir. 
 
GOELZ: Thank you. My pleasure.
 
GIOKOS: Well, people in Ukraine endured a Christmas attack that President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calls inhumane. Ukrainian officials say a barrage of missiles and drones targeted energy infrastructure, causing blackouts in several regions and leaving hundreds of thousands of people without heat on a cold winter day. At least one person was killed. 
 
Nada Bashir has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, this is being described by Ukrainian authorities as a massive scale attack, once again targeting Ukraine's energy sector. According to officials, the attack took place overnight into Wednesday, with explosions reported across the country, including in the northeastern city of Kharkiv, where at least seven missile strikes were reported and six people injured. Ukrainian authorities say Russia launched more than 70 missiles, including ballistic missiles, and more than 100 attack drones, of which 50 missiles and a significant number of drones are said to have been intercepted. 
 
However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has confirmed that there were hits with at least one person killed. Zelenskyy said President Putin chose to carry out the attack on Christmas Day, describing Russia's actions as inhumane. 
 
Ukraine's energy operator, meanwhile, says it was forced to impose emergency blackouts in several parts of the country. This, of course, comes after a series of attacks by Russia in recent days, including an attack on the capital Kyiv, which was targeted on Friday. Ukraine's largest private energy company said, this marks the 13th time this year that Russia has carried out a major attack on Ukraine's energy sector, leaving the country in a precarious position, as the war grinds into a third winter. 
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, London. (END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GIOKOS: And still to come -- 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING) 
 
GIOKOS: -- we'll take you around the world where world leaders, religious leaders and many others are celebrating Christmas. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
GIOKOS: Christmas has returned to the cathedral at Notre Dame.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING) 
 
GIOKOS: Christmas services were held at the cathedral for the first time since the devastating fire five years ago. Thousands visited the 12th century monument to attend mass led by the Archbishop of Paris. In England, the royal family attended Christmas services at Sandringham, among them King Charles and Princess Catherine, both of whom were diagnosed with cancer this year. In his annual Christmas message, the king praised those who dedicate their lives to helping others, and sent his best wishes to those affected by war.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KING CHARLES III, KING OF THE UNITED KINGDOM: On this Christmas Day, we cannot help but think of those for whom the devastating effects of conflict in the Middle East, in Central Europe, in Africa and elsewhere pose a daily threat to so many people's lives and livelihoods. We also think of the humanitarian organizations working tirelessly to bring vital relief. After all, the Gospels speak so vividly of conflict and teach the values with which we can overcome it. The example that Jesus gave us is timeless and universal. It is to enter the world of those who suffer, to make a difference to their lives and so bring hope where there is despair. 
 
As the famous Christmas Carol, 'Once in Royal David's City' reminds us, 'Our Savior holy' came down to Earth from Heaven, lived among 'the poor and mean and lowly' and transformed the lives of those he met through God's 'redeeming love'. That is the heart of the Nativity Story.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GIOKOS: Music filled St. Peter's Square before Pope Francis delivered his annual Christmas Day message. The 88-year-old pontiff called for peace in the Middle East, describing the humanitarian situation in Gaza as extremely grave. Pope Francis also appealed for weapons to be laid down in Ukraine, again, pushing for peace settlement.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
POPE FRANCIS, HEAD OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH AND SOVEREIGN OF THE VATICAN CITY STATE (Interpreted): May the sound of weapons be silenced in Ukraine. May there be the boldness needed to open the door to negotiation and to gestures of dialog and encounter in order to achieve a just and lasting peace.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GIOKOS: Well, all of this comes as the Catholic Church begins its Jubilee Year. 
 
Christopher Lamb has the details from London.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHRISTOPHER LAMB, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Pope Francis formally began the Catholic Church's Jubilee Year in St. Peter's Basilica on Christmas Eve. The Jubilee is an ancient tradition which is focused on forgiveness and pilgrimage, and during the year, 35 million people are expected to travel to Rome. The Pope began the Jubilee with the opening of the Holy Door in St. Peter's Basilica, which is normally cemented shut, but has been opened for this special celebration. The Pope was wheeled up to the door, it opened, and pilgrims filed in behind him, touching the bronze panels, as is tradition. According to Catholic teaching, those who carry out certain spiritual, charitable acts and go through a Holy Door will receive an indulgence, which is related to the forgiveness of sins. 
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
The Pope is hoping this Jubilee can bring hope to a troubled world, and in his Christmas Eve homily, said he wanted the Jubilee to be a time where peace and justice reign. The Pope has also called for the Jubilee to be a time when richer countries forgive the debts of poorer nations and for prisoners to be offered amnesties or pardons. The day after Christmas, the Pope will travel to Rebibbia prison on the outskirts of Rome and become the first Pope to open a Holy Door in a prison, something that he hopes to sends a message to governments across the globe. 
 
Now, this Jubilee Year is likely to test the stamina of the 88-year- old pontiff, but he is determined that the message of the Jubilee should resonate across the globe. 
 
Christopher Lamb, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GIOKOS: Well, Christmas is taking on a special meaning this year in Syria. The country's Christian community is celebrating the holiday for the first time since the fall of long-time dictator Bashar al- Assad. They and other minorities have been assured by Syria's new Islamist leaders that they will be free from persecution. But, on Monday, a group of men set fire to a Christmas tree in a Christian majority town near the city of Hama. Protests broke out later in Damascus, and a video surface showing a rebel flanked by Christian priests promising to punish the perpetrators. 
 
Now, in the West Bank, the atmosphere in Bethlehem, the biblical birthplace of Jesus, is very subdued again this year amid the war in Gaza. Worshipers gathered at the Church of the Nativity for a midnight mass, but many of the festivities typical of the season have been scaled back in the tomb. Christians in Gaza city celebrated mass at the Latin Church of the Holy Family. The church has served as a shelter for the small religious minority during the current conflict. 
 
Rev. Munther Isaac is the pastor of the Evangelical Lutheran Christmas Church in -- Christian Church in Bethlehem, and that's where we go now live. Reverend, really good to have you with us. Thank you so much for taking the time. Two years in a row now we've seen Christmas celebrations really subdued as -- things are going on with the cloud of war right now that is just taking front and center. Tell me about the mood right now in Bethlehem. How are people feeling?
 
REV. MUNTHER ISAAC, PASTOR, EVANGELICAL LUTHERAN CHRISTMAS CHURCH BETHLEHEM: Yeah. It's actually a mixture of anger and disbelief that this war has lasted as much as it did. We have never thought that this war would last for now more than 14 months, and we are mourning. We're still mourning and in concern for our siblings in Gaza. Many people in our congregations, in our churches here in Bethlehem have relatives in Gaza and are still concerned for their lives, given the severity of the situation there. 
 
And so, given all of that, it's hard, really, to celebrate as if things are normal. So, we are mourning, yet defiant in our prayers. Churches this year, like last year, were empty of pilgrims that were full of believers, Palestinian Christians who have been carrying this torch of keeping the Christian witness here in this land. So, we've seen many defiant people coming and insisting that the tradition must continue, although, of course, through prayer only.
 
GIOKOS: Last year, there was an image of baby Jesus in a manger that you had put together. It was in rubble. We're seeing this image again. You've posted it again. I want you to take me through what it symbolizes and what message you're trying to get across to the world.
 
ISAAC: This is the same activity scene from last year, and when we installed it last year, we decided to keep it until the war is over. And again, it's shocking to us that this scene survived another war. The symbol is clear. Jesus was born in a time of turmoil, and he was born among an occupied family, lived under the Roman occupation, and then they became refugees themselves, displaced when there was a massacre against the children of Bethlehem. We look at that story, as Palestinians, and we see a Palestinian story. 
 
When I did this last year, and we're still doing the same today, we were troubled from the images of children pulled from under the rubble. We saw these images every day, and sadly, we still see them. And as a result, when we hear not just politicians, but to be honest, sometimes church leaders, justify and rationalize the killing of our children, my message was clear. We see the image of Jesus in every child pulled from under the rubble. And so, we said Jesus today is under the rubble as a sign of solidarity with the marginalized and oppressed, and as a message to the world that this is what Christmas looks like in Bethlehem, in Palestine today, especially in Gaza, families displaced and homes destroyed.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
GIOKOS: And the death toll, Reverend, is -- has increased quite substantially. We've also seen an eruption of violence in the West Bank. How is that insecurity affecting you?
 
ISAAC: We live in a constant situation of fear, anxiety. We look at what's happening in Gaza, and many times we wonder, are we next? The Israeli government made their plans clear about annexing the West Bank. Since October 7th, we've seen increased restrictions over our movement as Palestinians. Many roads were completely blocked and new gates were added around of our towns. Right now, all it takes is to close two checkpoints outside of Bethlehem, and Bethlehem becomes another Gaza, completely isolated from the world, and we feel this in the rest of the West Bank. Every city has become its own isolation, its own concentration camp, if you wish. And this adds a lot to the sense of fear and isolation. 
 
And again, this is why the Christmas message couldn't have been more timely to us, because we need faith to give our people resilience, and the Christmas story gives us truly that message of hope and resilience, as we see in the Holy Family that survived and Jesus out of this difficult situation ultimately brought life to the world.
 
GIOKOS: Well, Reverend, there is so much hope for a ceasefire and hostage release, which has been elusive for quite some time now, but we remain hopeful. 
 
I wish you a Merry Christmas. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
ISAAC: Thank you for having me. 
 
GIOKOS: Thank you, sir.
 
Well, coming up, the Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris has reopened its doors just in time to celebrate Christmas. Hear an exclusive performance from the cathedral's choir. That's coming up just ahead.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING) 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back. You're watching CNN Newsroom. I'm Eleni Giokos in New York. And a holiday greeting from space to Earth. The four NASA astronauts on board the International Space Station sent this festive message.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SUNI WILLIAMS, NASA ASTRONAUT: It's a great time of Europe here. We get to spend it with all of our family up on the International Space Station. There is seven of us up here. And so, we're going to get to enjoy company together. From all of us to all of you -- (ASTRONAUTS WISHING MERRY CHRISTMAS)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GIOKOS: You're going to love the hats and the hair in zero gravity. OK. So, Suni Williams and Butch Wilmore are among the Americans on board. They've been in space since June, on a mission that was only supposed to last about a week, but was extended because of problems with Boeing's Starliner capsule that was supposed to bring them home. 
 
Well, we want to bring you more scenes now from the restored Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. CNN joined the cathedral's choir for one of its very first performances since the reconstruction, with this rendition of "I Saw Three Ships." 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING) 
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
(VIDEO PLAYING) 
 
GIOKOS: Wow. And Angelic Voices, really fantastic to listen to that this morning. 
 
Well, it's not a Christmas display, but nature putting on this spectacular light show in Hawaii. You're looking at the Kilauea volcano on the Big Island. The volcano began erupting on Monday, spewing lava as high as 300 feet, or 91 meters. Crowds packed Hawaii Volcanoes National Park to see the eruption, the first in three months. Kilauea is one of the world's most active volcanoes. 
 
Well, that is it for us today. I'm Eleni Giokos in New York, wishing everyone a very Merry Christmas. Destination Qatar is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)