Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY) is Interviewed about the Strike in Israel; Texts Show Delay after Concerns Over Shooter; California's Park Fire Burns More than 360,000 Acres; Swim Canceled at Olympics. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired July 29, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00] 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: His sympathy and shock with the victims - the families of the victims of this attack, meeting with several of them. And he also vowed that the Israeli government, that its military will indeed respond, saying that "the state of Israel will not and cannot put this to rest. Our response will come," he said, "and it will be severe." 
 
The Israeli prime minister's visit to Majdal Shams comes on the heels of his meeting last night with his security cabinet to deliberate on a response. That meeting ending with the cabinet giving the prime minister and the defense minister the authority to determine the timing and the scope of an Israeli response. And that is now the question, when will this Israeli response come, first of all, and, secondly, how severe, how significant will that response be? 
 
And at this hour, it is still unclear. We know that the U.S. government, among other Israeli allies, are urging a measured response in the face of this, trying to avoid this dangerous escalation that we have feared for so many months now as this slow, simmering conflict between Israel and Hezbollah is now entering its tenth month. We know that the Israeli government will respond. We do not yet know whether this will tip the region into that all-out war.
 
But I can tell you, having just returned from the community of Majdal Shams, that this is a community that is absolutely devastated by the loss of these 12 children. Still suffering - still struggling to comprehend how this could happen, how children could be the targets of this attack. And they are still trying to put the pieces together, including the father of Alma (ph), an 11-year-old girl, who told me that he holds Hezbollah directly responsible for this attack. He called them his enemy, and he said that he wants to see a response. 
 
Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: So many children killed there. So many children killed in Gaza. That is a horrible, horrible situation that is happening there in the Middle East. And you're in Haifa, very close to the Lebanon border. 
 
Thank you so much, Jeremy Diamond. Stay safe with you and your crew. 
 
John. 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right, with me now is Congressman Gregory Meeks from New York, the ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
 
Congressman, thank you so much for being with us. 
 
What, if anything, concerns you about the possible Israeli response to this deadly missile attack? 
 
REP. GREGORY MEEKS (D-NY): Escalation. You know, let me first send out my condolences to the families that - of the - those that were killed and injured. It's horrific. And I know that what we got back from Secretary Blinken, that Hezbollah is behind it and Israel has the right to defend itself. 
 
But, you know, one of the things that have always kept me up late at night was having escalation in that area. It would be an all-out war. And I worry about the many innocent lives that could be lost on both the Israeli side, and the innocent citizens of Lebanon. And it's why I think that President Biden has been trying so hard to get a ceasefire, because I think some of this is related to what's taken place in Gaza also to get a ceasefire. 
 
You know, just last week, Secretary Blinken said we was on the ten yard line. We were about to get this deal done. So, I'm hopeful that we can get something done to prevent an all-out war in the Middle East in that regards.
 
Hezbollah has many more weapons and artilleries there and Hamas has. And so I'm very concerned and very nervous about all-out war breaking out.
 
BERMAN: On the subject of foreign policy, our friend Josh Rogin, who writes for "The Washington Post," an opinion page, says he sees a difference in Vice President Kamala Harris, her foreign policy as now the likely Democratic nominee, than the foreign policy of President Biden. Josh writes, "her words and actions as vice president tell us that she would pursue an evolution rather than a revolution in U.S. foreign policy, seeking to preserve strong U.S. global leadership but with a dose of humility. That ethos could form the basis of a winning campaign message, as well as a solid foundation for a successful strategy." 
 
I wonder what differences you see with Vice President Harris going forward on foreign policy?
 
MEEKS: Well, I think that what's going to happen, you know, President Biden has done a tremendous job on foreign policy in my - in my regards. And I think that Vice President Harris has been a part of this. 
 
But you pass the baton. And so therefore, given the circumstances that will turn up under her turn as president, she'll make accordingly the steps that she thinks are important. But I think that collectively what will happen is strengthening our
 
 allies and working together, as Joe - President Biden has done, a strong - and keeping - making sure we have a strong NATO, strong alliances in the Indo-Pacific, a strong working with allies here on our own hemisphere. 
 <br>[09:35:04]
 
And I think that you will also add, you know, and talk about more what's taking place on the continent of Africa, particularly in places where atrocities have taken place like Sudan, and what's taking place here in Haiti. So, all of those things. And so - so I think she will continue the policies and the direction of which President Biden had been moving in. And I think that she'll just, you know, notch it up and take it to another level. 
 
BERMAN: Her campaign is a week old. I mean really just a week old. So much has happened this summer it's hard to believe that it's just a week. But what has she not done yet that you would like to see her do as the presumptive Democratic nominee? 
 
MEEKS: Well, as you said, it's just been a week. So, I think that what's going to happen, going forward, there will be more press conference, they'll be more, you know, rallies and moving forward. I think that you will see that she will be, you know, the country well get to see and get a feel of who she is.
 
You know, one of the things that I think is really important that I've grown up with, you know, Dr. King said that we're going to judge a person by the - not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. And so people will see her character. We know that - that the other guy, the - her opponent, Donald Trump, his character is very bad. Has been indicated by just about everyone who has ran against him, including all of the Republicans, whether you go talk about Nikki Haley or you talk about the governor - well, the senator from South Carolina, don't want to call their names, and the senator from Florida and the senator from Texas, they all have called him unwieldy things. 
 
You see in individuals who were with - or in the Trump administration, some 24 of them, who have - did not show up to the Republican Convention. Many of them, like Vice President Pence and General Kelly, Mattis, and former Attorney General Barr outwardly speak against and say that this guy's character is not what we need to have as president of the United States. 
 
So, I think that the - you'll see on the road who and what and the character of the vice president. And that will make all of the people of America know what their choices are when they go to the polls this November. 
 
BERMAN: Congressman Gregory Meeks from New York, great to see you this morning. Thanks so much.
 
New details from the local SWAT team about the communication breakdown before the assassination attempt on Donald Trump. Text messages show concerns were raised 90 minutes before the shooter climbed onto the roof.
 
A major wildfire has now burned more than 360,000 acres, forcing widespread evacuations. And the man accused of starting it set to appear in court shortly.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:42:35]
 
BERMAN: New this morning, members of a local SWAT team assigned to protect Donald Trump the day of the assassination attempt now say the Secret Service never met with them face-to-face. They spoke to ABC News about the lack of action after a local sniper texted about someone suspicious.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SGT. GREGORY NICOL, MONACA POLICE: We had a text group between the local snipers that were on scene. I had sent those pictures out to that group and advised them of what I noticed and what I'd seen.
 
AARON KATERSKY, ABC NEWS: What do you think is transpiring once you send in what you've sent in?
 
NICOL: I assumed that there would be somebody coming out to, you know, speak with this individual or, you know, find out what's going on.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN: My friend Aaron Katersky there.
 
Text messages also reveal that the issue of the gunman was raised nearly 90 minutes before shots were fired at the former president. 
 
CNN's Zach Cohen here with the latest this morning.
 
Zach, what are you learning? 
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yes, John, members of the SWAT team describing both a failure in planning and a failure in communication. And they told ABC News that it started with this briefing. That they were supposed to have a face-to-face briefing with U.S. Secret Service snipers before the rally took place, but that never happened. 
 
Take a listen to what they told ABC News this morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON WOODS, LEADER, BEAVER CO. SWAT TEAM: We were supposed to get a face-to-face briefing with the Secret Service snipers whenever they arrived. And that never happened. So, I think that that was probably a pivotal point where I started thinking things were wrong because that never happened. And we had no communication with the Secret Service.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) COHEN: Some members of the SWAT team say they had no direct communication with the Secret Service at all on Saturday, which is amazing, until after the shooting happened. That includes warnings that they picked up and they were talking about amongst themselves about this suspicious individual who would turn out to be the would-be assassin that were raised hours in a group text with just the local snipers in it, about 90 minutes before the rally took place. 
 
I want to read some these text messages. They were obtained by Chuck Grassley, the Republican senator from Iowa, who is investigating the shooting at Trump's rally. One of them in particular, 4:46 p.m., again this is over an hour and a half before the rally started. One of the local snipers texts, "kid learning around building we are in. A little typo there. I did see him with a rangefinder looking towards stage. FYI, if you want to notify SS snipers to look out, I lost sight of him." 
 <br>[09:45:01]
 
So, this local sniper saw the would-be shooter an hour-and-a-half before the rally started, texted the concerns about the shooter, you know, an hour-and-a-half before the rally started. And it's unclear if that warning ever made it to the Secret Service.
 
BERMAN: All right, good reporting this morning, Zach. Zach Cohen, thanks so much for being with us.
 
Sara. 
 
SIDNER: This morning, new hope firefighters can make headway against the nation's largest active wildfire. Since it erupted last week, it has ravaged more than 360,000 acres in northern California. Right now it's just 12 percent contained. And evacuation orders and warnings are in place in four separate counties. 
 
CNN's Camila Bernal is in Butte County, in northern California. 
 
What have you been seeing? The scenes are just devastating.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It really is heartbreaking, Sara. Just so much destruction. And just think about the fact that thousands and thousands of acres look very similar to what you're seeing here behind me, just destruction. And what fire officials are telling me is that the center of the fire is still very active and it's still in very steep terrain, areas that are very difficult to access for firefighters. 
 
But there are two things that were very beneficial this weekend. One, better weather conditions. And, two, more and more resources. We now have nearly 5,000 firefighters here in this area. And they were able to do two things. One, they were able to put boots on the ground, to do assessments here. And so they have changed the number of structures destroyed, but they're now saying about 100 of them have been destroyed. And then the other very important thing that officials have told me is that they were able to do this direct, very aggressive attack on those flames. And that really helped that containment number go up. 
 
The other thing that they're telling me is a priority is getting people back into their homes. Fire officials are very cautious about the fact that the people of this county, Butte County, have gone through a lot. They lived through that 2018 fire, which was the deadliest in California history. And so they want to make sure that all of the people of the county are aware of what's going on and can get back home safely.
 
So, again, it's really the first time that I hear some progress, that I hear some optimism from firefighters. But there's still so much to be done here, Sara.
 
SIDNER: Yes, the devastation is wide, it's vast, and it's still just 12 percent contained. Thank you so much, Camila Bernal, to you and your crew out there in Butte County.
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, worst-case scenario, we will convert it to a duathlon. The new plan this morning from the world triathlon president as the water in the Seine remains to dirty for Olympic athletes to swim in. I'm not sure about this plan.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:52:14]
 
SIDNER: Now to France where official say vandals targeted telecom, fiber optic lines in six different locations overnight. New images just shared by the CEO of French internet provider Netalis shows the damage. This is just the latest attack being described as, quote, "major sabotage." It comes just three days after the country's high- speed railway infrastructure was targeted by vandals. It's unclear whether the same groups are behind both. 
 
And the Olympic triathlon training swim canceled again. This is the second day that's happened. It turns out the river Seine, not as clean as it needs to be. 
 
CNN's Coy Wire is live in Paris.
 
Coy, John is perplexed by the plan that it might turn into a biathlon, if that's even a thing. Is that really a thing? 
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: That is potentially going to be a thing starting as early as tomorrow, Sara. Look, French authorities have invested $1.4 billion over the last decade. But according to some locals I've talked to they said they've even pulled entire old sunken vehicles out of the river to prepare the river for this moment. But here we are, a day before the first triathlon competition, and organizers and reps of the world triathlon canceled swimming practice in the Seine for a second straight day. They met this morning after water quality tests showed bacteria levels were just too high. Two straight days of rain pummeled Paris. And that just overwhelmed the city's sewage system, sending untreated water with high levels of E. Coli flooding into the river. Organizers say with higher temps, more sunshine the next 36 hours, they are confident that they will see acceptable limits by tomorrow's competition. 
 
And as John mentioned, if they have to cancel that swim portion, they're going to go with a run, cycle, run triathlon. That would be tough news, Sara, for all the strong swimmers who've trained and who've been counting on that portion of their race. 
 
Let's go to another type of water, Sara, a shocker in the swimming pool last night. Team USA's world and Olympic record holder in the 100 butterfly, Gretchen Walsh, caught down the stretch by her teammate, Torri Huske. Walsh takes the silver with 21-year-old Stanford student Huske, who barely missed the podium in Tokyo, becoming an Olympic gold medalist. But she pulled her teammate, Walsh, up to the top of the podium to share the moment at the medal ceremony. That's cool stuff. 
 
There are five swimming medals up for grabs today with Americans Emma Weyant and Katie Grimes in the 400 IM, Luke Hobson in the 200 free, Ryan Murphy in the 100 backstroke, Lilly King in the 100 breast, and Claire Weinstein in the 200 free.
 
And the seven time defending champs, Team USA women's hoops, taking the court for their first time at these Paris Olympics, facing Japan at 3:00 Eastern. 
 <br>[09:55:03]
 
It's a rematch of the last summer Olympics gold medal game. Seven Olympians returning from that squad, A'ja Wilson, Diana Taurasi, Breanna Stewart, and Brittney Griner returning to international play on a team stacked with future Hall of Famers and WNBA all-stars. Look, two-time gold medalists LeBron James still playing at 39 is impressive, but Diana Taurasi at 42, already with five Olympic golds and a chance for another, this is going to be fun to watch.
 
SIDNER: All right, thank you, Coy Wire. 
 
John's got things to say, but we don't have time.
 
BERMAN: I don't know. I'm just so unimpressed with the plan for the triathlon. It's like the Seine is, what, it's like the oldest river in Europe. Everyone know - it's like the Seine doesn't sneak up on you, right?
 
SIDNER: No, it does not.
 
BERMAN: It doesn't sneak up on you here. They've been planning this forever.
 
SIDNER: It's true.
 
BERMAN: You've got to have a plan b. and you can't have a triathlon without the swim. 
 
SIDNER: He's upset.
 
BERMAN: I'm upset.
 
SIDNER: As an Olympian himself, he is very mad about this.
 
BERMAN: As a former Olympian myself, this outrages me.
 
Coy Wire, thank you so much for being with us today. Enjoy the day. It's going to be another great day in Paris. Except if you have to go anywhere near the Seine.
 
That's all for CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "CNN NEWSROOM" up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)