Headline: Quest Means Business
Sub-headline: Republicans Join Harris At Pennsylvania Campaign Event; Pro-Trump Groups Rake In Cash from Three Billionaires; Airbnb Looks Toward Hosting 2 Billionth Guest. Aired 4-5p ET

Aired October 16, 2024 - 16:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[16:00:00]
 
KAMALA HARRIS (D), VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We here know the Constitution is not a relic from our past but determines whether we are a 
 
 country where the people can speak freely, and even criticize the president without fear of being thrown in jail or targeted by the military.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: Where the people can worship as they choose without the government interfering.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: Where you can vote without fear that your vote will be thrown away.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: All of this and more depends on whether or not our leaders honor their oath to the Constitution. I have sworn an oath to uphold the 
 
 Constitution six times, including as vice president, as a United States Senator, and as the top law enforcement officer of the largest state in our 
 
 country.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And I have never wavered from upholding that oath, and this is a profound difference between Donald Trump and me. He who violated the oath 
 
 to uphold the Constitution of the United States. And make no mistake he who, if given the chance, will violate it again.
 
Donald Trump lost the 2020 election --
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And he refused to accept the will of the people and the results of a free and fair election. He sent a mob, an armed mob, to the United States 
 
 Capitol, where they violently assaulted police officers, law enforcement officials, and threatened the life of his own vice president, and he 
 
 refused to engage in the peaceful transfer of power.
 
Were it not for the courage and patriotism of Vice President Pence that day, Donald Trump might have actually succeeded in overturning the will of 
 
 the American people.
 
Let's reflect on that.
 
And now Donald Trump is telling us how he intends to use power if he is elected again. He has stated that one of the biggest threats America faces 
 
 is "the enemy from within."
 
(BOOING)
 
HARRIS: The enemy from within, but know where that language hearkens back to.
 
Understand and let us be clear about what he is saying. He considers any American who doesn't support him or bend to his will to be an enemy to our 
 
 country.
 
And further, he says that as commander-in-chief, he would use our military to go after them.
 
Honestly, let that sink in.
 
Use of the American military to go after American citizens?
 
And we know who he would target first, because he has targeted them and attacked them before, journalists whose stories he doesn't like, 
 
 nonpartisan election officials who refuse to cheat by finding extra votes for him, judges who insist on following the law instead of following him.
 
It is clear Donald Trump is increasingly unstable and unhinged.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And he is seeking unchecked power.
 
Consider what his closest advisers have said, his national security adviser, two Defense secretaries, his former chief-of-staff, his own vice 
 
 president, all have warned America Donald Trump is unfit to serve.
 <br>[16:05:06]
 
Or listen to General Milley, Donald Trump's top general. He has called Trump, and I quote, "fascist to the core." And said, "No one has ever been 
 
 as dangerous to this country."
 
So think about that. General Milley served in uniform for more than 40 years commanding American forces around the world. He has confronted some 
 
 of America's worst enemies, and he is saying no one has ever been as dangerous to our country as Donald Trump.
 
America must heed this warning, because anyone who tramples on our democratic values as Donald Trump has, anyone who has called for the 
 
 "termination" of the Constitution of the United States as Donald Trump has must never again stand behind the seal of the president of the United 
 
 States.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: Never again. Never again.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And to those -- and to those who are watching, if you share that view, no matter your party, no matter who you voted for last time, there is 
 
 a place for you in this campaign.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: The coalition we have built has room for everyone who is ready to turn the page on the chaos and instability of Donald Trump, and I pledge to 
 
 you to be a president for all Americans.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And I take that pledge seriously. I take that pledge quite seriously.
 
So as I've mentioned, many of you know, I spent a career as a prosecutor in law enforcement, and I will tell you, I never asked a victim or a witness, 
 
 are you a Republican or are you a Democrat? I never asked of anyone who needed help, if anyone who deserved attention, where were they registered 
 
 and who did they vote for? The only question I ever asked was, are you okay? And that is the kind of president I pledge to you that I will be.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: That is my pledge to you, because we have too much to do and too much good work to do to be relegated to -- requiring each of us to be in 
 
 some silo, disconnected from each other. There's too much good to be done, and the challenges that we face as a nation require us if we truly want to 
 
 create solutions and strengthen our nation, the approach truly requires that we understand we're all in this together. This is so much more than 
 
 rhetoric or a campaign.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: It really is about tapping into the spirit of who we are as Americans, because we are all in this together. We are all in this 
 
 together.
 
And so I pledge to be a president who actively works to unite us around our highest aspirations. I pledge to be you, to be a president who is realistic 
 
 and practical and has common sense and to always fight for the American people.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 <br>[16:10:00]
 
HARRIS: Unlike Donald Trump, who, frankly, as we have seen, cares more about running on problems than fixing problems. I want to fix problems, 
 
 which means working across the aisle. It requires working across the aisle. It requires embracing good ideas from wherever they come.
 
That is why I have pledged to appoint a Republican in my Cabinet.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: That is why I have pledged to establish a council on bipartisan solutions to recommend to me common sense solutions to some of the most 
 
 pressing issues facing our country.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: Because nobody has a corner on the good ideas. They actually come from many places, and one should -- especially if they want to be a leader, 
 
 one should welcome those ideas, and those ideas which are about, in particular, strengthening the middle class, securing our border, defending 
 
 our freedoms and maintaining our leadership in the world.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And all of this is to also say that I believe for America to be the world's strongest democracy, we must have a healthy two-party system.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: Because it is when we have a healthy two-party system that leaders are then required to debate the merits of policy and to work, yes, across 
 
 the aisle regularly and routinely to get things done, and I have experienced firsthand how important and rewarding that kind of bipartisan 
 
 cooperation can be.
 
So I'll tell you, when I was the United States senator, I served on the Senate Intelligence Committee. It was actually my favorite committee for a 
 
 number of reasons, but specifically this there. There, we dealt with some of the most pressing issues affecting national security. There we would 
 
 talk about hot spots around the world and what we needed to do to focus on keeping America safe and secure. And to do that, we would review classified 
 
 information, which required us to meet in a secure room. Adam, you know, it's called a SCIF, okay?
 
When we would go in that room, with all due respect, no cameras were allowed.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
HARRIS: No press, and we would roll up our sleeves and get to work. I'm telling you, senators of both parties would walk in that room, take off 
 
 their suit jackets, roll up their sleeves, have a cup of coffee on the table, and we would have real conversations, real conversations as 
 
 Americans, because we understood that what happened in that room, well, the stakes were so high, and therefore it could not be -- we could not afford 
 
 to let it be about whether one was a Democrat or a Republican. The stakes were too high.
 
We were in that room, and it was all about us as Americans, about doing what is in the best interest of the safety and security of our nation.
 
I love that work, and it was what we have as the theme of today. It was country over party in action -- in action.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: So I know it can be done, and that is the standard of leadership and the aspiration that I have in terms of how we will work when, with your 
 
 help, I am elected president of the United States.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: So --
 
(PEOPLE chanting "Kamala.")
 
HARRIS: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 
So we've got to get to work. We've got to get to work.
 
So let me just say an obvious point. There's a fundamental choice in this election, a very fundamental choice, a choice between the leadership that I 
 
 pledge to offer to America, leadership that brings folks together, that builds consensus and focuses on making life better for you.
 <br>[16:15:10]
 
To offer to America, leadership that brings folks together, that builds consensus and focuses on making life better for you, with the knowledge 
 
 that we have so much more in common than what separates us.
 
And on the other hand, the choice of someone who I think we can guarantee, will sit in the Oval Office plotting retribution, stew in his own 
 
 grievances and think only about himself and not you.
 
So as I have said, our campaign is not a fight against something, it is a fight for something.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: It is a fight for the fundamental principles upon which we were founded. It is a fight for a new generation of leadership that is 
 
 optimistic about what we can achieve together -- Republicans, Democrats and Independents who want to move past the politics of division and blame and 
 
 get things done on behalf of the American people.
 
And when it all comes down to it, I know we are all here together this beautiful afternoon, because we love our country.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: We love our country and -- and we are here because we know the deep privilege and pride that comes with being an American and the duty that 
 
 comes along with it --
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And the duty that comes along with it.
 
Imperfect though we may be, America is still that shining city upon a hill that inspires people around the world.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: And I do believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism to fight for the ideals of our country.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
HARRIS: So should people from across Pennsylvania and across our nation, let us together stand up for the rule of law, for our democratic ideals, 
 
 and for the Constitution of the United States, and in 20 days, we have the power to chart a new way forward, one that is worthy of this magnificent 
 
 country that we are all blessed to call home.
 
Thank you all. May God bless you and may God bless the United States of America.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Hello, I'm Julia Chatterley, and you've been listening to Kamala Harris speaking at a rally in Bucks County, 
 
 Pennsylvania, pledging to be a president that works to unite, working across the aisle. She also took the fight directly to the former president, 
 
 calling him unstable and unhinged, suggesting he's seeking unchecked power "that he will stew in his own grievances" if he wins back the White House.
 
She blasted Trump for refusing to engage in a peaceful transfer of power back in 2020. She also quoted Trump's top general, General Milley, saying 
 
 that the former president was fascist to the core.
 
The vice president holding an event alongside more than 100 Republicans who are backing her candidacy over former President Donald Trump, in a move 
 
 that's clearly aimed at winning over conservative voters.
 
A number of Republicans now posed to Donald Trump also speaking at the rally. And in a couple of hours' time, Harris is set to appear on Fox News 
 
 for an interview with its chief political anchor, Bret Baier.
 
Priscilla Alvarez is with me, and Priscilla, I know you were listening to that as well. The standout line for me to this point about the outreach, 
 
 perhaps to Republicans that dislike Trump's behavior, his past behavior or present, but are reticent to cross the aisle and vote for a Democrat. She 
 
 said, there is a place for you, and she reiterated it.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, certainly that has been a resounding message of the Harris campaign. These were very pointed 
 
 remarks about choosing country over party. That's how these remarks were billed from the get go. And what was notable over the course of that speech 
 
 that she gave there was that she didn't really talk about issues, her policy vision, her proposals, instead, this was time allotted to speak 
 
 directly to Republicans, especially disaffected Republicans, to essentially extend an olive branch and say that she, for example, welcomes Republicans 
 
 at the table.
 <br>[16:20:14]
 
She has said, for example, that she would appoint a Republican to her Cabinet if she were to win in January. She also reflected on her time as 
 
 senator and working in a bipartisan manner to try to solve whatever issue was on the table.
 
So this was a moment that her campaign and clearly the vice president wanted to use to double down on trying to reach these Republican voters 
 
 that they see as not being interested in voting for Donald Trump, but may still need some convincing, in Pennsylvania, especially that includes, for 
 
 example, those Nikki Haley voters during the primary, she still had a good chunk of voters, even though she had already dropped out of the race.
 
And so the Harris campaign sees an opportunity there to try to appeal to those voters. Those Republicans that have already essentially said that 
 
 they're not going to vote for former President Donald Trump, but that she's still trying to bring over to her side.
 
So these remarks were an extension of that, her trying to illustrate this picture of the former president being self-obsessed and not focusing on the 
 
 problems or the issues that a commander-in-chief may face. Instead, she is trying to distinguish herself as the person who is up to the task of doing 
 
 so.
 
Now remember that the symbolism here is also important. She did this in Washington Crossing. You see her there. This was near where George 
 
 Washington and his troops crossed the Delaware River, which was a major turning point in the American Revolution.
 
And not long ago, she was in Ripon, Wisconsin with Liz Cheney, also Republican, where she also tried to speak to Republican voters. Ripon, 
 
 Wisconsin, of course, the birthplace of the Republican Party.
 
So taken together, you can see how they're trying to build this argument, but especially 20 days away from Election Day, lean in to that argument, 
 
 because while she is still building her own Democratic coalition, or at least trying to strengthen and lock it down, she's also trying to reach out 
 
 to other voters.
 
I spoke to campaign officials this week who told me, look, there are some corners of the Democratic Party that they're going to be losses in take, 
 
 for example, young Black men. She may not get as many as they would have hoped. Arab Americans concerned about the handling of the Israel-Hamas war.
 
But these campaign officials tell me that if they can win over some of the White college educated voters in the suburbs, voters who may otherwise vote 
 
 Republican, that that is how they see a path to victory in some of these battleground states.
 
So this is not the last that we'll probably hear from the vice president on this and certainly perhaps more during her interview on Fox News.
 
CHATTERLEY: I was about to say certainly isn't the last. We're going to see what she says on Fox News. I'm sure the campaign acknowledge this as an 
 
 opportunity, but also a risk. So we'll see what comes of it.
 
Priscilla, great to have you with us. Thank you. Priscilla Alvarez, there.
 
Now, Elon Musk says he'll be giving a series of talks in Pennsylvania in support of Donald Trump's campaign. New disclosures show he contributed 
 
 nearly $75 million this summer to a pro-Trump super PAC he helped create.
 
The Trump campaign is also getting support from megadonors like the packaging tycoon, Richard Uihlein and the widow of Sheldon Adelson, the 
 
 casino magnet, those three billionaires alone gave more than $200 million to pro-Trump groups during the third quarter.
 
Joining us now, Sarah Bryner is director of Research and Strategy at OpenSecrets.
 
Sarah, fantastic to have you with us.
 
I look to the breakdown from Forbes actually --
 
SARAH BRYNER, DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH AND STRATEGY, OPENSECRETS: Glad to be here.
 
CHATTERLEY: Hi -- and they record 79 billionaires, in fact, supporting Harris, 50 backing Trump so far. But of course, Musk is a financial whale.
 
Just put this money and spending into perspective for us, please. And of course the method in which he's doing it via this super PAC.
 
BRYNER: What's interesting about this case, and about Musk in particular is that it actually is doing a lot of the work of the ground game for the 
 
 Trump campaign.
 
Typically, we'll see super PACs spending money, super PACs like the America PAC, the one backed by Musk, spending money on ads, television ads. In this 
 
 case, they're doing that, but they're also hitting the pavement, and that's a big deal, because that's really what, in the end, can drive people to the 
 
 polls.
 
CHATTERLEY: But it's a risk. This is a new strategy that we've seen from this kind of super PAC to sort of almost offset that campaign and let 
 
 somebody else deal with it.
 
BRYNER: Absolutely and $75 million from Musk, the super PAC has raised more than that. That puts it among the top 10 to address that context in a 
 
 little bit, but yes, it's absolutely at risk, but I think it's one that Trump is willing to take, because his campaign has struggled with its 
 
 ground game this cycle. It's also struggled to raise money at all.
 
And so Musk is a popular figure with some people, and they are taking, you know, the bet that he's going to be better able to get people in these sort 
 
 of middle of the road districts out to the polls than Trump, who's a little bit more polarizing, would be able to do himself.
 <br>[16:25:14]
 
CHATTERLEY: Just, can you break it down so that we can understand the significance, perhaps, of the 10 biggest individual donors, and what 
 
 proportion of the spending they contribute versus the sort of crowdfunding smaller players, and what percentage that is, because I think the 
 
 difference here for people to understand actually, is very important.
 
BRYNER: Yes, absolutely. So it's wild, actually. And I don't have the latest thing yet, because we just got the data yesterday. Everyone filed.
 
But the last time I checked, the top 10 individual donors had contributed over 10 percent of all of the money in American elections, which is 
 
 billions and billions of dollars we expect to be spent by the end of all of this, whereas the top or whereas anyone donating under $200.00 makes up 16 
 
 percent of the total amount.
 
So when we're talking 10 people giving roughly equivalent amounts as everybody else who gives donations, it's wild to think about the influence 
 
 that those people might have.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and that's the key.
 
I mean, we're just showing some numbers on screen there, but you're giving us the breaking news there, which is that that seven percent is now more 
 
 than more than 10 percent.
 
I mean, you've also done a projected cost of the spending of this presidential election over $15.9 billion. The previous record before that 
 
 was $15.1 billion and that's in nominal terms, so if inflation adjusted, perhaps it may not be a record, but this is just mind blowing.
 
BRYNER: Yes, and it really comes down to what is that money doing? These are political operatives who are trying to influence the way that Americans 
 
 think about the world around them, and they can do so with varying degrees of success. Right?
 
A lot of people know what they think about Trump and Harris already, but it's money that ultimately, most people are going to expect something in 
 
 return, whether it be a meeting, whether it be a policy outcome, and really, you know, when you think about it in those terms, it's sort of a 
 
 just a mind-boggling concept.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, quid pro quo, particularly when you're talking about 10 individual donors and their influences and what they require in order to 
 
 achieve this versus the rest of the world, quite frankly, even though they all only get one vote.
 
Very quickly, is there a saturation point, do you think where we just don't see more money than we're seeing today? And maybe it's a stupid question, 
 
 but I'm asking it anyway, there surely is a point, but we're not there yet.
 
BRYNER: It's not a stupid question. I have been wondering that for a decade.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, well, we're wondering.
 
BRYNER: But this seems to keep going up, we might be at it. I mean, if we're hitting the point where the inflation adjusted estimate is roughly 
 
 around the same as last, maybe we're there.
 
But I kind of don't believe it, because there's so many people making money out of this process, that I'm sure they'll find new ways and new strategies 
 
 to make sure that these, you know, political fundraisers and consultants and lobbyists and all of them continue to take their portion of the 
 
 political pie.
 
So I think the numbers could go up, yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: This is an astonishing amount of money in politics, even for a nation this size.
 
Sarah, great to get your wisdom. Thank you. Sarah Bryner there. Thank you.
 
BRYNER: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Stay with QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:31:52]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back. 
 
Airbnb on track to welcome its two billionth guest. The accommodations firm announced the milestone in its annual winter report along with a top travel 
 
 trends of the season. These were the world's most search for destinations in the third quarter. Brazil and Spain coming out on top, accounting for 
 
 seven of the top 10 cities, Australia, Mexico, and the United Kingdom also hitting that map as you can see. 
 
Jay Carney is the global head of policy and communications at Airbnb, and he joins us now from Washington. 
 
Jay, fantastic to have you on the show. I love these reports that you do and these surveys. Not only to find out where people want to go, but also 
 
 what hosts are thinking and the message seems to be that Airbnb hosts would monetize their homes better if they had some more help. And you're working 
 
 on expanding operations for co-host. Explain what that means and what impact you expect it to have on your business. 
 
JAY CARNEY, GLOBAL HEAD OF POLICY AND COMMUNICATIONS, AIRBNB: Absolutely. Thanks for having me. And yes, we have our new winter release and the co-
 
 host network is the feature of this release. And what it is, is a network of 10,000 co-hosts, the hosts who are in very highly rated, very 
 
 experienced, whom a new host or an existing hosts can tap for help in managing their property. 
 
What we've heard from existing hosts is that many of them would increase the number of nights they make their property available if they could get 
 
 help posting. You know, it's whether it's because they need to be in in town or rather they need to travel and I can't be in town all the time or 
 
 some of the sort of more administrative aspects of being a host, managing a property, they need help. 
 
And what we have done with this co-host network is created a way for either existing hosts or new hosts who are worried about whether they have the 
 
 time or the wherewithal to be a host to get help very easily. They input what they're looking for. The app provides a list of recommended co-hosts. 
 
 It fit what they're looking for including their location. And then they go straight to that person they're interested in having helped them, and 
 
 negotiate terms. 
 
We don't take a cut but what happens is we think we'll grow our supply. More hosts will offer more nights and then we'll add hosts to our business, 
 
 which is just good for guests, who want to go to all of these great places around the world. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and I read that you don't take a cut of this either. This is about you helping them to help you and it's all reinforcing. One of the 
 
 other things that stood out to me very quickly, Jay, is that over a third of Airbnb hosts say that actually they use the money that they get from 
 
 this to simply pay their bills and make ends meet just at a point where we are very sensitive three weeks out from an election on affordability, I 
 
 think in the economy. 
 
Have you seen that evolved and how sensitive our people today to that? 
 
CARNEY: Well, what we're seeing reflects what we're hearing from our hosts, which is, you know, it's important for, we think, for everybody, but 
 
 especially policymakers to remember that Airbnb in their city or their town, their community is represented by their constituents. 
 <br>[16:35:05]
 
They're property owners. People who live there vote there and are trying to get by and make ends meet in those towns. So they aren't outside companies 
 
 or in the hotel chains. They're individuals living in these communities who are leveraging their largest asset often, which is their home, to make some 
 
 extra money and they're often, what they're telling us, they're often using that extra money to be able to afford their mortgage, to be able to stay in 
 
 their home especially when costs rise. 
 
So we think that's an incredibly important point and a compelling argument. And we've seen this in cities around the world where hosts tell us that 
 
 they're worried about, for example, you know, regulation that might make it harder for them to be hosts, and what that would mean for their income and 
 
 their ability to stay in their homes. So we believe very strongly that allowing property owners to become hosts on Airbnb is a way to help with 
 
 the affordable housing challenge that so many cities have. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, you're caught at the intersection of that, whether you like it or not, as a provider of short-term housing or medium-term 
 
 housing, depending on where you go, and in certain cities, New York is a great example. There have been limits on what Airbnb hosts can provide 
 
 because you're being accused of contributing to the affordability sort of crisis or the housing crisis in some of these cities. And you can, you 
 
 know, push back at will and I know you have. 
 
I just wonder what you think of the Harris campaign's plan to tackle housing affordability. Obviously, the provision of money and handouts for 
 
 first-time buyers or building more homes. What impact for you guys -- 
 
CARNEY: Well, I think -- I mean, I've personally heard what Vice President Harris has said and her campaign has said about how they would tackle this 
 
 problem. And I think it sounds exactly right. The problem is a supply problem. Prices go up when there isn't enough supply. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. 
 
CARNEY: Where there's too much demand. I mean, that is just obvious. I mean, I didn't get far in economics, but I took enough to know that that's 
 
 how it works, and that's what we're seeing around the world. New York, I'm glad you raised that. You would think I wouldn't want to talk about New 
 
 York. New York, you know, city council passed a bill, they implemented it and a year later it's a disaster. Hotel prices have been rising more than 
 
 two or three X regular inflation. 
 
It's almost impossible to get an affordable hotel room in New York City now. There's been no increase in the availability of homes. Rents continue 
 
 to rise. Prices continue to rise. And Airbnb hosts or hosts of short-term rentals of which many were Airbnb hosts, you know, are struggling to figure 
 
 out how they're going to continue to pay their mortgage. 
 
And another result of this is that people who can no longer host on Airbnb because of these regulations are not putting back those homes, making them 
 
 available for a long-term rent or purchase, but going to the black market, which means no tax collection for New York City or New York state. And no 
 
 trust and safety regulations to ensure that things don't happen. So it's really been a disaster, I think. 
 
CHATTERLEY: It's messy. 
 
CARNEY: Probably well-intended policy. And we're hopeful, we point to that as an example of, you know, good intentions that lead to unfortunate 
 
 consequences. So, you know, what we have seen from third-party data again and again is that the perception that short-term rentals is driving this 
 
 crisis is just off base. We are simply not big enough in any city to be the cause of this housing shortage. 
 
And most of our hosts are primary homeowners who are, you know, letting out a room or their whole home for a limited number of nights per year. So it's 
 
 not -- they're not taking properties off the market for the full year. 
 
CHATTERLEY: I wanted to ask you what you think of the presidential election. I'm just reading what's over your right shoulder. And I think it 
 
 says, I miss you like I miss Obama every damn day, Kamala. 
 
CARNEY: Yes, that was a greeting card -- 
 
CHATTERLEY: Now that's a message. 
 
CARNEY: That we made in Seattle that I love. Unfortunately, you know, I worked for President Obama and, you know, I have very strong feelings about 
 
 that. I'm not as a representative of a company, but as somebody who cares about our democracy and I'm certainly focused on the fact that it's going 
 
 to be incredibly close. And I just hope everyone understands that their vote matters and they get out and vote. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Can you be clear on who you think would be better -- 
 
CARNEY: Respectfully in key states -- 
 
CHATTERLEY: -- for the company? 
 
CARNEY: Especially in key states -- say that again? 
 
CHATTERLEY: Can you can you be clear -- are you clear as a company on who would be better for business? I mean, the burden, the join away of business 
 
 is you have no choice. You deal with whoever wins and whatever the politics is that flows. But, you know, speaking as a business, can you see who would 
 
 be better or worse? Do you have a view? 
 
CARNEY: Well, I think you're right, Julia, that obviously Airbnb has been around through -- you know, survived and thrived under administrations of 
 
 both parties. 
 <br>[16:40:06]
 
As a personal view, not accompany view, I would say that, you know, maintaining the rule of law, maintaining democracy, limiting global 
 
 economic chaos, these are all desirable goals for anybody in business. And I think that my view is that Kamala Harris is the right choice for those 
 
 reasons. But again, that's a personal view, not a company view. We don't have a stated position on the election as a company. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Airbnb, it's carry on regardless because you've got no choice. 
 
CARNEY: Well, of course. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Jay. 
 
CARNEY: Yes. And I just think, I mean, Julia, I think, you know, it's shortsighted if you're in business or you're an entrepreneur to think that, 
 
 you know, a slightly more permissive regulations, you know, in exchange for the chaos caused by, you know, excessive tariff regime, or just, you know, 
 
 weaponizing the Justice Department, and, you know, that all of these things that -- and the kind of chaos that we've seen already would somehow create 
 
 a positive in this environment, I think it's just not, is not thinking this through completely in my view. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Three weeks to go. Not much more time to think. 
 
Jay Carney, great to have you, sir. Thank you so much. 
 
CARNEY: Thank you. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Thank you. All right. Wall Street ended the session high, the Dow Jones rallying 337 points to be exact. That's eight-tenths of 1 
 
 percent. The S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq recovering some of yesterday's losses. United Airlines shares jumping more than 12 percent on the back of strong 
 
 earnings. The airline offering a $1.5 billion share buyback. That's its first, by the way, since the pandemic. 
 
And that's QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. Up next, "MARKETPLACE ASIA." 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:44:45]
 
(MARKETPLACE ASIA)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to THE LEAD. I'm Jake Tapper. 
 
This hour, Jimmy Carter makes history. The 100-year-old former president fulfills his wish and casts his ballot in the upcoming presidential 
 
 election. He did so for Vice President Kamala Harris. Jimmy Carter's grandson is going to join us live to describe what this moment meant for 
 
 the entire Carter family. 
 
END