Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Armed Man Arrested Near Trump Coachella Rally; Smithsonian National Zoo Expects Pandas By Year's End; FEMA Forced To Pause Storm Recovery Operations In North Carolina. Aired 7:30-8a ET

Aired October 14, 2024 - 07:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:31:37]
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  Federal officials say former President Donald Trump was not in any danger following the arrest of a man near his campaign rally in Coachella, California on Saturday. Authorities say 49-year-old Vem Miller had several weapons, including a shotgun, a loaded handgun, and a high-capacity magazine. He was also in possession of multiple driver's licenses and passports with different names.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal is joining us now. What more have you learned about not just the suspect -- about what happened?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Sara. So this morning the man arrested is denying any claims of attempting to harm the former president. And federal officials, as you mentioned, telling CNN that there is no evidence that he was attempting to assassinate the former president.
 
But here is what we know. Vem Miller -- he's a 49-year-old man from Las Vegas and he was arrested near the rally on Saturday. And he was arrested for illegally possessing a shotgun and a loaded handgun. And now, these are state charges, but we also know he had multiple boxes of ammunition for both guns. 
 
And the Riverside County sheriff saying he had multiple passports and driver's licenses with different names. He was driving in an unregistered car with a fake license plate. And he told authorities that he was a journalist and that he had VIP passes for that rally, which authorities said they were not able to verify.
 
Now, the sheriff's department also says that he was allowed through an outside perimeter but was then stopped at the inside perimeter, which was more thorough, and that's where the deputies found the fake licenses, the guns, the multiple ID's. And this was still a distance away from the entrance of the event where the U.S. Secret Service does their checks, and it was also before the former president even arrived.
 
Now, he was arrested and then later released on a $5,000 bail. He's since posted a video online defending himself. Here's part of it. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VEM MILLER, ARRESTED AT TRUMP COACHELLA RALLY:  President Donald Trump has been near and dear to our hearts because he's one of the only individuals that I've seen have the courage to actually stand up to this tyranny against we the people. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL:  Now, the Trump campaign, on Sunday, thanked law enforcement for securing the rally site and for helping ensure the safety of the president. 
 
And a U.S. attorney's office statement said that the U.S. attorney's office, the Secret Service, and FBI are aware of this arrest and then went on to say that this did not impact any of the protective operations, and that the former president was not in any danger, Sara. 
 
SIDNER:  It's interesting in that video it sounds like he's very supportive of President Donald Trump. 
 
BERNAL:  Yes.
 
SIDNER:  We will have to wait and see what happens with this case, and I know you'll be following it. Thank you so much, Camila Bernal, there live for us from Los Angeles -- John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  All right. A scathing new line of attack from Vice President Harris on Donald Trump's health, strength, and transparency. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  He refuses to release his medical records. I've done it. He is unwilling to do a "60 MINUTES" interview like every other major party candidate has done for more than half a century. He is unwilling to meet for a second debate. 
 <br>[07:35:00]
 
It makes you wonder why does his staff want him to hide away. One must question -- one must question are they afraid that people will see that he is too weak and unstable to lead America?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  All right, with us now, CNN political commentator and Democratic strategist Paul Begala, and former Trump White House associate counsel May Mailman. 
 
Paul, I guess we're not at closing arguments yet but we're getting closer. So weak and unstable. What does the Harris campaign get out of this? This is the first time we've heard this language in this way from the stump. PAUL BEGALA, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST (via Webex by Cisco):  Oh, I think it's brilliant. It's exactly what they need to be doing. Because the other big story, what did Mr. Trump say over the weekend? He talked about the enemy within, which as you noted earlier is fraught with really evil history. He talked about using the military against American citizens.
 
Now, in a former life Democrats would have said, in my case, scalp on fire, right? Oh, he's a dictator. He's a strongman. That only strengthens Trump especially with those men where he has opened up this colossal gender gap. 
 
Look at what Vice President Harris is doing instead. Instead of saying oh, he's so strong, he's a bully, she's saying yeah, he's weak and unstable. He doesn't even want to debate me, a girl. He doesn't want to go on "60 MINUTES" -- he can't. He can't release his medical records. He can release his tax returns. That's because he's weak and unstable. 
 
So by saying that Trump uses division for diversion I just think it's -- I personally believe it's true but also, I know it's going to have a really good effect on defusing that strongman appeal that really does work with a lot of guys.
 
BERMAN:  Let me play that appeal you are talking about there -- the enemy within rhetoric. And like I said, this is language that has been used almost verbatim but autocrats over decades and decades. May, listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I think the bigger problem is the enemy from within, and we have some very bad people. We have some sick people -- radical left lunatics. It should be very easily handled by -- if necessary, by National Guard or if really necessary by the military.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  May, is that a good closing argument?
 
MAY MAILMAN, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE ASSOCIATE COUNSEL (via Webex by Cisco):  Well, you know, a lot of the big criticism -- and there are many -- of the way that January 6 was handled is that there wasn't a sufficient law enforcement presence, including why didn't you call the National Guard earlier. 
 
And I think that that's what he's saying here is that yes, our Election Day should be secure and so he's going to do the things -- or that the government should do the things that are necessary.
 
But here is the problem -- is that continuing to pick clips -- oh, he said bloodbath; oh, he said enemy within -- you know, the population -- people don't -- Trump says so many things this just doesn't swing people anymore. OK, Trump said another thing. We don't like that thing but if you actually listen to it -- oh, it's talking about Election Day.
 
And so Kamala Harris cannot continue to run on Trump saying a thing. She has to now run on why vote for Kamala Harris, and that is where she has really fallen flat. What is the thing? Why should you vote for Kamala Harris? We already have the people who are voting against Trump, but why you? And that -- I think that has to be her closing argument and it doesn't seem to be at this point.
 
BERMAN:  Paul?
 
BEGALA:  Oh, I think she will get to that. But again, I think it's really useful to contextualize what Trump's saying.
 
By the way, look at those two clips and turn the sound off next time you watch them. Kamala is energetic, she's youthful, she's forceful, she is strong. And poor Mr. Trump -- and I mean this -- he just -- he doesn't look well. He's melting down. I mean, it's a crummy makeup job but, I mean, I could be guilty of that too. But he looks awful. He -- it looks like a guy who is kind of falling apart and you kind of want to bring him a glass of water or something. I don't know.
 
But seriously, watch it. Viewers should do this. Watch those two clips back-to-back that you showed with the sound off and you tell me who is more energetic, and vital, and strong enough to lead America.
 
BERMAN:  Is -- how vulnerable is Trump, May, do you think on arguments about being weak and unstable?
 
MAILMAN:  Well, he's a very stable genius. No, I'm just kidding. So I don't know if Trump comes off as elderly even though he obviously numbers wise is. And I do think energy wise and -- you know, he's not where he used to be. 
 
But he's so high energy that actually for me and many Republicans Kamala's suggestion of why don't you go hide in the basement is actually one that many Republicans would welcome. So I don't think attacking him as too low energy -- people want that actually. They want Trump to be a little bit more low energy -- so, fine. 
 
BERMAN:  Yeah.
 
MAILMAN:  Go away. That's OK.
 
BERMAN:  We'll see. This also does seem like a little bit of setting a trap perhaps like she did in the debate. This is the type of thing that might be designed to get a rise out of him.
 
I just want to show you both. The Wall Street Journal does a survey quarterly of economists, so I don't think you have any partisan slant one way or the other.
 <br>[07:40:00]
 
And they asked this survey of 50 economists whose policies is inflation -- for whom is inflation likely to be higher. Sixty-eight percent said Trump. Sixty-eight percent of them said that under Trump inflation will be higher. Harris just 12 percent. They also said interest rates would be higher under Trump and deficits would be higher under Trump.
 
Paul, you see this. Is this something that Harris -- this idea -- can use to break through on the economy because Trump is still leading on the economy?
 
BEGALA:  Well, particularly on inflation, which politicians always should only call it cost of living because it's the real world implications. Inflation is the rate of increase of the cost of goods and services. That's not important. What's important is how much does it cost for me to buy a carton of eggs to feed my kids, right? 
 
And here's what I would do. Yes, the economists are useful, and the data are useful. I would personalize it, OK? 
 
Donald Trump is charging $300 for a pair of ugly ass sneakers. Michael Jordan only charges $200 for really good sneakers, OK? He's charging $100,000 for a watch. He's charging 60 bucks for the holy bible -- the word of God -- 60 bucks. And that money is not going to the good Lord. 
 
You know what he does with that money? He goes out and he throws it up in the air and says, Lord, take what you need and send the rest back down to me.
 
So he is like -- he charges $18.00 for a doggone hamburger at Trump Tower. You can walk three blocks away and go to Shake Shack and get a better burger for $7.99. 
 
So I would that. I would personalize it. He is the face of greed- flation and Democrats ought to be willing to say that because he gets a lot of good for this reputation as a businessman.
 
The other side of that is people are pretty ready to believe that a businessman like Mr. Trump is arboraceous, greedy, and causing inflation.
 
BERMAN:  All right, Paul, May. Thanks to both of you. Great to see you both this morning. I appreciate it -- Kate.
 
BEGALA:  Thanks.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  A CNN exclusive this morning. Panda diplomacy is alive and well once again. Preparations are underway for two giant pandas from China to arrive to Washington, D.C. A team from the National Zoo is in Sichuan province now to help with the transportation and transition of the pandas, which are always a huge draw for zoogoers.
 
And CNN is the only American media there. CNN's David Culver is joining us now. David, what's happening?
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT:  I wish I could tell you that these were real pandas behind me, so don't get confused with that, Kate. But while we're here we are actually not far -- and I should probably keep it down because they're sleeping -- from the two pandas that are going to the National Zoo eventually.
 
It's Bao Li and Qing Bao. They're about 100 yards from where we are and they're in this sectioned-off quarantine area. And they're there with some of the Smithsonian caretakers, as well as their Chinese counterparts, trying to figure out what their personalities are. Trying to get to know them a little bit better. And then eventually, they will travel with them to the U.S.
 
But our being here in and of itself -- and by the way, it's my first time back into China in two years, so what a special assignment to be here for -- we're getting a little bit more of an insight as to what that acclimation and transition from China to the U.S. will be like for these two bears. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CULVER:  We've traveled here to Sichuan, China for a rare look at preparing these pandas for their very long journey. We're in and around the city of Chengdu. It's known for spicey hot pot, its mountainous landscape, and giant pandas.
 
We're actually going to go meet now with some of the folks from the Smithsonian National Zoo from D.C. who have flown here and are part of the transition team to bring Bao Li and Qing Bao back to the U.S. 
 
We can't go back there, but that's where Bao Li and Qing Bao are. They're in quarantine. And those you saw there were the zookeepers from the National Zoo as well as some caretakers from China. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So they both have pretty different personalities. Bai Li has a huge personality, so he's very vocal and he's very energetic. And he's always kind of like up doing something. Qing Bao is his polar opposite. She can be almost always found in a tree or sleeping on her climbing structure. 
 
CULVER:  The panda pair will fill a void at the Smithsonian's National Zoo in Washington, D.C. For the past 11 months, the panda exhibit has sat empty. Now, as part of terms of the Smithsonian's exchange program with China, late last year the zoo's three pandas were sent back here to Chengdu. 
 
ELLEN STOFAN, UNDER SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE AND RESEARCH:  I don't think people realize how attached you get.
 
CULVER:  When you're here -- I mean, in this setting, what has stood out to you?
 
STOFAN:  Here, the sheer number of pandas
 
CULVER:  It's crazy.
 
STOFAN:  It's crazy. 
 
CULVER:  You turn here and you're like oh, you can go there, you can go there. Nowhere else do we have something like this.
 
STOFAN:  Nowhere else. And the scenery is obviously beautiful, and the commitment.
 
CULVER:  Pandas were on the brink of extinction but in recent years they've moved from endangered to vulnerable, but there's still more work to go. 
 <br>[07:45:03]
 
The Panda exchange, also called panda diplomacy, dates back more than 50 years now when China gifted two pandas to the U.S. following President Nixon's historic visit. Today they're given on loan, and they are a strategic diplomatic tool serving as ambassadors of hope and spreading global goodwill. Somehow pandas are able to unite nations. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BOLDUAN:  So David, that history is fascinating, which leads to my question of not only is it great that two pandas are going -- heading back to the National Zoo, but what does this signal, if anything, about relations between Beijing and Washington?
 
CULVER:  Well, I feel like, Kate, every time we're talking about the U.S. and China it's about rising tensions, it's about differences, it's about conflicts or clashes. Yeah, this is a bright spot in U.S.- China relations. And the fact that the panda diplomacy efforts can push through all the geopolitical back-and-forths -- I mean, that says something. 
 
As far as the timing for these two pandas it's going to be sometime before the end of the year. That's the promise from the Smithsonian. So it's exciting times, especially for folks in the U.S. and along the East Coast because Zoo Atlanta had to send back their four pandas just yesterday.
 
BOLDUAN:  Absolutely. And it's just great, David, as you're talking. There's, like, video of one of the pandas from the Smithsonian just like tumbling down a hill adorably. So I'm sorry I'm so distracted for her --
 
CULVER:  That's probably Bao Li. 
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes.
 
CULVER:  They say he's the most active one. I know -- it's mesmerizing, trust me.
 
BOLDUAN:  It's so adorable. 
 
Great to see you. Thank you so much -- John.
 
BERMAN:  Talk about diplomacy. What would have happened if David Culver -- what would have happened if David Culver had actually woken up the pandas? Like, what would have happened to U.S.-China --
 
BOLDUAN:  I mean --
 
BERMAN:  -- relations? I was whispering --
 
BOLDUAN:  A minimum --
 
BERMAN:  -- for fear of waking up a panda.
 
BOLDUAN:  -- diplomatic incident at maximum -- see you, David Culver. I'm kidding.
 
BERMAN:  I would have pulled ambassadors from, like, embassies because David's talked so loudly.
 
BOLDUAN:  Recalled ambassadors. David Culver is far better than that.
 
BERMAN:  All right. I'm just so glad that everyone is still asleep as far as we know.
 
All right. This morning, how about them Cowboys? They got destroyed by the Detroit Lions at home in front of Jerry Jones. 
 
CNN's Coy Wire is here with the details. This was unreal, Coy.
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Yeah, a 38-point beatdown, John. Dallas' worst home loss since Jerry Jones bought the Cowboys in 1989. Not the present he wanted on his 82nd birthday yesterday.
 
The Lions were just toying with the Cowboys -- all sorts of trick plays -- pummeling them with nearly 200 yards rushing. Jared Goff threw for three touchdowns, including this, John -- one off of a double reverse flea-flicker to Sam LaPorta who rumbles into the endzone.
 
Things got out of hand. Detroit let two offensive linemen run routes as receivers, then called a hook and ladder to 335-pound Penei Sewell. Look at him diving towards the goal line. There was a flag on the play here. 
 
But Detroit's defense -- they had Dak Prescott seeing ghosts, sacking him four times. Brian Branch intercepted him twice. They did, however, lose their star defender Aidan Hutchinson in this one to a season- ending leg injury as they win 47-9. 
 
The Cowboys embarrassed. Still winless at home. 
 
Now, the Tampa Bay Bucs were planned with some extra motivation dominating their division rival Saints 51-27. The most points by any team this season.
 
Baker Mayfield threw for four touchdowns, dedicating the win to all the fans back home, especially those still struggling in the wake of Hurricanes Helena and Milton.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BAKER MAYFIELD, QUARTERBACK, TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS:  I think today was kind of a team embodying and embracing everything that everybody is going through. Ups and downs trying to handle it the best way you can and fight through it and find a way to make it work. That's life. Obviously, a natural disaster is not easy to deal with, but you find a way to make it work and you overcome -- and you come together.
 
TODD BOWLES, HEAD COACH, TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS:  Our hearts pour out to the city. It's a tough city. It's a strong city. We don't know what we're going back to but in our small part and this time we wanted to win one for the city. And we're going to try and help any way we can when we get back.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  And to the WNBA Finals. Lynx and Liberty in the Big Apple. The Lynx took game one but this time, two-time league MVP Breanna Stewart was in her bag for New York, dropping a game-high 21 and set a new finals record for steals with seven of them.
 
The Liberty win 80-66 evening the series at one as they now head to Minnesota for game three on Wednesday.
 
And those Dodgers dominated the Mets in game one of the NLCS in L.A. Shohei Ohtani going two for four, scoring two runs, driving in another in a 9-0 shutout.
 
And these playoffs have been all about pitching for the Dodgers. Thirty-three consecutive scoreless innings, tying the all-time postseason mark set by the Orioles in 1966.
 
Game two is this afternoon. Then tonight on TBS and Max game one of the ALCS between the Guardians and Yankees in the Bronx.
 
John, back to you.
 
BERMAN:  And we are all Guardians fans this morning.
 
Coy Wire, nice to see you. 
 
It is official. I just had to say. It's actually a thing. All right, Sara.
 <br>[07:50:00]
 
SIDNER:  I just wanted to know if you could try doing this. 
 
BERMAN:  I don't even know what that means. Oh, it's the Dodgers.
 
SIDNER:  It's L.A.
 
BERMAN:  It's the Dodgers.
 
SIDNER:  Just try it. See how it fits.
 
BERMAN:  As long as they beat the Yankees if it comes to that. I don't care.
 
SIDNER:  All right. Coming up, FEMA workers forced to stop their relief work after receiving reported threats from armed militia who the White House blamed for the harassment of those aid workers trying to just do their jobs.
 
And how you can get your hands on never-before-heard tracks from legendary guitarist Jimi Hendrix. 
 
We'll have those stories ahead.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMI HENDRIX, GUITARIST, SONGWRITER:  Singing "Purple Haze."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[07:55:00]
 
SIDNER:  New this morning, FEMA disaster relief had to be temporarily halted in North Carolina after the agency received several reports of threats against their responders. In one county, FEMA workers had to stop working after National Guard troops reported seeing armed militia threatening them nearby.
 
CNN's Arlette Saenz is in Wilmington, Delaware for us this morning on this story. What do we know about when these services might resume? I mean, this is really disturbing and distressing for those who need this help so desperately.
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  It really is, Sara. So many communities still need to get assistance. But there are reports from over the weekend that some of these FEMA operations were paused in the state of North Carolina due to some threats against FEMA response workers. It comes at a time amid high misinformation regarding the federal government's response to these hurricanes.
 
Now, one of those impacted counties, Ashe County, up in the northwest corner of the state -- they said they were pausing some operations out of an abundance of caution. They did anticipate that some in-person applications for aid would be able to resume today at some locations, but there are questions about what the extent of this pause could be.
 
It comes at a time when the White House has gone to great lengths to warn of the misinformation that's been spreading about the federal government's response to these hurricanes. They have warned that this misinformation that's been spread really complicates the work of workers on the ground trying to get aid into these impacted communities. At the same time, the administration is also trying to assess how much money they will need going forward to address disaster relief efforts. 
 
Officials have stressed that right now they have what is needed in the immediate need after Hurricane Milton and Hurricane Helene, but they warn that there could be other disasters around the corner. And President Biden has pushed for Congress to make this a top priority to get additional funding.
 
Now, last week the FEMA administrator had warned that they had already run through about $9 billion of the $20 billion that Congress had recently approved for disaster relief. They had done that in just one week, which really highlights the stakes for this agency as they are trying to respond to these two hurricanes while also preparing for any other disasters that could come.
 
Now, House Speaker Mike Johnson, so far, has held firm, saying he's not going to bring back the House early to address additional disaster relief potentially leaving this until after the election. But it does come at a time when officials have warned that more money will be needed to deal with disaster relief down the road.
 
SIDNER:  Arlette Saenz, thank you so much for that report there from Wilmington, Delaware -- Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  So a manhunt is underway this morning for one of two murder suspects. And this story -- it's so disturbing. Police say two men posed as utility workers in Michigan, claiming to be investigating a gas leak in order to get into the home. Ring cam video at their home shows the suspects.
 
Police say the 72-year-old homeowner eventually allowed them in and led them to the basement where one would investigate a gas leak. That is when police say the men attacked and killed the homeowner and tied up his wife. 
 
The first suspect, Carlos Hernandez, was caught in Louisiana now waiting to be extradited back to Michigan. He's been charged with felony murder and unlawful imprisonment. 
 
And as I mentioned, the county sheriff though -- the county sheriff's office is still searching for the other man.
 
Kenya's Ruth Chepngetich shattered the women's marathon world record at the Chicago Marathon yesterday. She raced across the finish line in two hours, nine minutes, and 56 seconds -- 26.2 miles in two hours and nine minutes. That's like roughly a five-minute mile or less -- becoming the first woman in history to break the two-hour, 10-minute barrier and shaving almost two minutes off the previous record. And she's still standing, which is truly a remarkable feat. 
 
SpaceX with an impressive and successful landing to tell you about. The company flew a 233-foot rocket booster back to its launch site catching it out of the air with two arms. They call them chopsticks. Yes, that is what they call those big giant metal arms. 
 
This is all part of SpaceX's goal of being able to recover and reuse their equipment quickly and efficiently in order to get their rockets and people into space faster and cheaper -- John.
 
BERMAN:  All right. This morning, for the first time, never-before- heard unreleased Jimi Hendrix tracks can be yours. Rare recordings, along with personal items from the man who might be the GOAT of all guitarists will be auctioned next month.
 
CNN's Anna Stewart is here, and all I can say is excuse me while I kiss the sky. ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Clearly a fan. Maybe you should be taking part in this auction next month.
 
This is extraordinary. This is an artist whose career lasted, of course, just four years because he died tragically at age 27 years old. 
 
And actually, the story behind how we've got all of these lots that will be sold is also really interesting. The P.A. of the manager managed to rescue it from the offices just after I think the bailiffs had gone in and ransacked unreleased demos.