Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Adams Calls for Sanctuary Policy Change; Rep. Greg Meeks (D-NY) is Interviewed about Immigration; Hunter Biden to Testify Today; Impact of Marijuana Use; Pope Home from Hospital; Treasury Uses AI to Combat Fraud. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired February 28, 2024 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:07] 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: This morning, New York City Mayor Eric Adams is calling for major changes to the city's sanctuary policies. He publicly endorsed the shift that could send undocumented immigrants who are accused of a crime into the hands of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officers. 
 
CNN's national correspondent, Athena Jones, with us now with the details here.
 
Athena, what's the context and what exactly is he proposing? 
 
ATHENA JONES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, John. 
 
Well, some of the details. The context is growing concerns about public safety and immigration at top of mind for a lot of voters, and certainly a lot of Democratic mayors of big cities who have been dealing with this crisis of a huge influx of migrants since about the spring of 2022. And so now Mayor Adams, who has been calling the migrant influx into New York City a crisis for more than a year. The city is now sheltering some 65,000 migrants in shelters. Many, many more have already been through this system. But now he's responding to growing concerns about crimes where migrants have been accused, for instance, a high-profile shooting in Times Square were a tourist was hit and a 15-year-old Venezuelan migrant is accused of that crime. 
 
So, this is why he's publicly now endorsing, for the first time, a shift in the city's sanctuary policy that could mean more cooperation. So, for instance, someone who is accused of a crime could be handed over to Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officials, otherwise known as ICE. 
 
Here's what he had to say about this at a press conference yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS (D), NEW YORK CITY: I don't believe people who are violent in our city and commit repeated crimes should have the privilege of being in our city. There's some people that feels that they should be able to remain
 
 here, keep doing the actions, until they eventually convicted. I don't subscribe to that theory. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JONES: So, you heard that language there. That language, until they're eventually convicted. That's one of the things that's causing concerns among immigration advocates and also just general people who are concerned about civil rights because of the lack of due process there. He said at a town hall just the day earlier on Monday, Mayor Adams said, the overwhelming number of migrants are coming to the city. They want to work. They're law abiding. But he said, "we need to modify the sanctuary city law that if you commit a felony, a violent act, we should be able to turn you over to ICE and have you deported." But, again, the concern is that only being accused, not convicted of a crime, is going to lead to a lot of trouble in the community of migrants.
 
And I should note that this is -- you know, he's also tried to respond to this problem that Democrats have been facing, both in Congress, in big cities, as I mentioned, and, of course, the Biden White House, because immigration is so important to so many voters. We've seen that in recent special elections and we know that for President Biden it is the issue upon which he scores the lowest when it comes to approval ratings. So, this is probably another headache for them.
 
But we should mention that Mayor Adams has not specifically outlined exactly what changes he wants to make and he'll need the cooperation from a majority of New York City council to make any changes. It doesn't look like he's likely to get that anytime soon. But still very interesting to hear him speak this way. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, Athena Jones, thank you for explaining it all so well. Appreciate it. 
 
Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: And joining us now to talk much more about this is Democratic congressman from New York, Greg Meeks. He's the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
 
Congressman, thank you so much for being here. 
 
Let's start with what Eric Adams says he's trying to do here in New York City. What do you think of his move? 
 
REP. GREG MEEKS (D-NY): Well, I can understand the frustration of the mayor, especially, you know, when you talk about individuals that are being bussed here out of Texas. I do believe in due process. I think that you also know that sometimes people are accused of a crime who have not committed the crime and so therefore I do believe that there needs to be due process an individual. Once they are convicted of a crime, then they should be removed. But I do believe that the due process is important and necessary act to happen but first because, you know, I've heard folks, oh, that must have been a migrant, he did it, and then you find out that it has not taken place. 
 
So, due process should be in place. Understand the frustration of the number of individuals who are being sent to New York, who should not be sent to New York, particularly from the state of Texas. 
 
You know, I just came back from the border. I went to Arizona. I wanted to see what Governor Hobbs did versus what Governor Abbott does in Texas. And I found a profound difference in that regard, particularly as individuals are sent to New York. One with its cooperation, a notification, working with other NGOs as what's happening in Arizona with Governor Hobbs, others make sure there's no cooperation, make sure the New York does not know, just send them in the middle of the night. So, to me, one system seems to want to really do something that is effective and is humane, and the other is just playing politics, trying to make an issue of it.
 <br>[08:35:04]
 
BOLDUAN: Overarching all of this, and some of what is the point of Mayor Adams, is that something's got to give. And that you could also say, just broadly for the border crisis that you went to see in Arizona and in Texas and what is being debated amongst -- amongst you all in Congress right now. I mean we heard that there's a big meeting at the White House between the top four -- the top four leaders with President Biden. Speaker Johnson came out yesterday and said that border security is priority number one. We hear Democrats -- you have talked about that this is an issue that is priority for you all as well. He makes the case once again just yesterday that he thinks -- and he wants President Biden to take executive action. 
 
Do you think that is the case, that is the solution while you all cannot seem to agree on where to move?
 
MEEKS: I think that it is ridiculous for Speaker Johnson to say just that when we know that we've seen presidents, President Trump and President Biden, when they've taken executive order, that generally it ends up in the court. And we should not be avoiding the responsibility that we have as members of Congress. And we've seen, in a bipartisan manner in the Senate, where there was a bill that was put forward by Senators Sinema and Lankford and Murphy. 
 
And when I talked to the Border Patrol, when I was an Arizona, they all said that it very much would help. And, you know, when I talked to the people of Arizona who seemed to go back to the McCain days -
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
MEEKS: And talk about how he was working with immigration, a different form. But what Johnson is doing, and the MAGA Republicans that are there, and I say even the so-called moderates because they're not standing up to say let's do something, let's fix this.
 
BOLDUAN: Well, there's some Republicans that are trying to come together to put some - to -- have tried to come together to try to put them - do you -- do you accept, at this point, just looking purely at the politics, that nothing is going to happen with border security until after the election? 
 
MEEKS: Well -
 
BOLDUAN: Do you think that's -- even though you - you're going to say, Kate, I don't want that to happen, we need do our jobs.
 
MEEKS: That's right.
 
BOLDUAN: But.
 
MEEKS: I - but it appears if Johnson allows Donald Trump to say, don't do anything on the border, don't do anything to fix immigration until after the election, and he adheres to that, then nothing will happen, which is why I say my colleagues, who are Republicans, but say that they're not MAGA, need to join with us and let's fix this. We can fix this for the benefit of our country if we do it together. 
 
BOLDUAN: I mean -
 
MEEKS: Democrats showed that we're ready to move. And we have moved.
 
BOLDUAN: Though -
 
MEEKS: We need them. And I think that --
 
BOLDUAN: In a way that you haven't in the past, you definitely have seen.
 
MEEKS: That's correct.
 
BOLDUAN: So, let - let me ask - can I -- I'm going to lean on your -- your ranking it -- with - with foreign affairs, because President Biden, this week, he -- he caught Israeli officials by surprise, he caught them off guard, that is what our reporting is, when he said that he was hopeful by this coming Monday that there will be a ceasefire agreed to in the war between Israel and Hamas.
 
Do you realistically share that optimism? 
 
MEEKS: I know how hard the Biden administration is working to make that happen. There's two parties, though, when you're trying to make this happen. It's Israel and it's Hamas. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. Well, that's why I think -- I asked you if you share the optimism.
 
MEEKS: Right.
 
BOLDUAN: It's not saying that they - that people aren't trying, but, again.
 
MEEKS: Well, when I talk to -- you know, I was recently at the Munich Security Council. And I've had opportunity to talk to King Abdullah of Jordan. I've had an opportunity to talk to the foreign minister of Saudi Arabia and talk to the foreign minister of Qatar. They are actively working very hard and they feel that it is extremely important that we do get something done between now and before even Ramadan, which is just a few weeks away. 
 
And so, you know, my concern right now, from what I've heard recently, and have read, you know, some of the reports that you've had, the reports that I get back is that, you know, Hamas has disagreed on a ceasefire. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
MEEKS: And so, therefore, we've got to have both sides on it. 
 
So, yes, I want the Biden administration -- and I know that they're working very hard. I know sometimes what comes out of Prime Minister Netanyahu's mouth does not help at all. But I know that we've got to stick to it because I don't think that we want greater war in the Middle East. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
MEEKS: We don't have any other alternative but the continued to move hard. And I thank the administration for doing what it's doing. 
 
BOLDUAN: That's why it's tough for people to be optimistic that it's going to happen by Monday. 
 
We're out of time, but I do want to ask you, on the heels of this Michigan primary, this is a huge issue. This was a huge issue for Democrats. More than 100,000 voting uncommitted. That is significantly more than we have seen in the past in Michigan primary. Does that make you nervous for President Biden?
 
MEEKS: No, I think that it is still early. I think that the people don't know -- I wish folks knew what I know when I know how hard he's working behind the scenes. 
 <br>[08:40:06]
 
Diplomacy is hard. And just having the status quo, just having a ceasefire and going back to what was is not good enough for President Biden. What President Biden wants to do is to have a different Middle East where you have a two-state solution, where the people of Israel can live in peace and the people -- the Palestinians can live in peace and have their own governing boards. That's not easy. It doesn't happen overnight. It takes hard work. And I think that that's what he's trying to accomplish. And I think that's what the people of Michigan really want. They want -- they don't want occupation in Gaza. They want to have an independent state side-by-side. That's hard work. It's not a quick fix. And that's what the Biden administration is not trying to just do a quick fix, they're trying to make a change that will benefit both the people of Palestine, the people -- the Palestinians, as well as the Israelis. 
 
BOLDUAN: Congressman Greg Meeks, thank you so much for coming in today. It's always great. Thanks for taking the questions. MEEKS: Thank you for having me.
 
BOLDUAN: John.
 
BERMAN: We have new reporting just into CNN. How the U.S. government tracked down hundreds of millions of dollars in stolen money using artificial intelligence.
 
Hunter Biden due to arrive on Capitol Hill any minute after months of back-and-forth. Highly anticipated testimony to Republicans trying to impeach his father.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:45:50]
 
BERMAN: Very shortly the culmination of months of negotiations, not to mention several episodes of high drama. Hunter Biden is set to arrive on Capitol Hill to testify in the impeachment inquiry into his father.
 
CNN's chief legal affairs correspondent, who has been here for every twist and turn, is with us this morning.
 
Hunter Biden set to arrive shortly, Paula, correct? 
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: That's exactly right. We expect him to arrive within the next hour.
 
And this deposition is make or break for GOP lawmakers who so far have not provided any clear evidence to support their allegation that President Biden benefited from his son's foreign business dealings. And Hunter's deposition today comes just two weeks after a federal informant who alleged the Bidens received millions of dollars in foreign bribes was charged with false statements, with fabricating those allegations. 
 
Now, John, Republicans brushing that off today as they head into this deposition. Now, there are two interesting concessions that Republicans made to Hunter Biden and his attorneys in order to make this appearance possible. This will not be videotaped, and the transcript will be released to both parties simultaneously and we expect it to be released pretty quickly. While these concessions were meant to allay concerns from Hunter Biden and his lawyers that GOP lawmakers could selectively leak portions of his testimony. 
 
Now, Hunter and his lawyers, Abbe Lowell and Kevin Morris, we've seen over the past year they have taken a much more aggressive approach to Republicans, to Hunter's detractors. So, it will be really interesting to see how this deposition plays out over the course of the day. 
 
We'll keep you posted.
 
BERMAN: Yes, it will be very interesting to see how many questions Hunter Biden chooses to answer. Remember, he is under federal indictment. We will be watching for so much. 
 
All right, Paula Reid, thank you very much. 
 
REID: Two federal indictments.
 
BERMAN: Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: A new study is raising some warning signs now about marijuana use and the risk of heart attack and stroke. Key here is that there's a significantly higher risk even if a person has no existing heart condition. And the study's lead author also notes that cannabis smoke is not at all -- not all that different from tobacco smoke, except for the psychoactive drug THC versus nicotine. 
 
CNN's Jacqueline Howard has much more on this. 
 
Jacqueline, tell us about this. What are the researchers really finding here? 
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: It is really interesting. What the researchers did, they looked at data on adults, those who use cannabis, those who use it daily, and those who do not use it. And what they found is that daily cannabis use is associated with a 42 percent increased risk of stroke and 25 percent increased risk of heart attack. So, these are the heart health risks that we're talking about here. 
 
Now, this is just an association, not a causation, but these findings do parallel what's been seen before, looking at heart disease and heart health risks and marijuana use. 
 
And it's also interesting that this study seemed to point out data that's especially important for people who might have a history of heart attack and stroke and they use cannabis. So, these findings just, again, kind of confirm what's been found before about the impact that daily cannabis use can have on your heart health, and using more frequently, how more frequent use can really impact your health as well. 
 
BOLDUAN: And clarify for everyone, is this only smoking marijuana? Is this vaping? What does this mean in terms of edibles? And is there an -- is there a demographic that is most impacted with this? 
 
HOWARD: Yes. So, really, this is for the general public, older adults, younger adults, this association was found. And I thought it was interesting that the findings were similar as far as risks for men under the age of 55 and women under the age of 65. So again, this is no matter your age group. 
 
And we are talking about smoking and vaping. And it is interesting how the researchers specifically pointed out that smoke itself, whether you're smoking cannabis or tobacco, can really have these impacts that oftentimes we think about the impact on your lungs, but it can have impacts on your heart health as well.
 <br>[08:50:08]
 
BOLDUAN: All right, Jacqueline Howard, thanks so much for pulling it together for us. Appreciate it.
 
John. 
 
BERMAN: All right, Kate, new health concerns surrounding Pope Francis after he was taken to the hospital. New information in this morning.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN: All right, developing this morning, Pope Francis, we are told, is back at the Vatican now after he was taken to the hospital overnight. 
 <br>[08:55:03]
 
Our Ben Wedeman is in Rome this morning. 
 
Ben, what is known about this hospital visit and the reasons behind it? 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it wasn't really overnight. It was actually in the middle of the day here in Rome. 
 
What we know is that he was taken to the Gemelli Hospital on the Tiber Island around midday. And there, according to a statement put out to the Vatican -- by the Vatican, he underwent, in their words, some diagnostic tests. The visit to this hospital apparently lasted less than an hour and then he returned to the Vatican. 
 
Now, this morning, he did attend a meeting with Armenian bishops, followed by a general audience, where he spoke briefly and said, I have a slight cold and I'm going to let my colleague deliver him my address for me. 
 
And what we've seen is that of late he does seem to be under the weather. On Saturday, all his public appearances were canceled. Then on Sunday, he did hold the usual Angelus prayer from the apostolic apartments overlooking St. Peter's Square. But then on Monday, once again, the Vatican announced that all his appointments, or rather audiences, had been canceled because of flu-like symptoms. 
 
But then again today, he did appear and it doesn't appear that he's going to - he's canceling anything for the rest of the week. In fact, after the news came out that the pope had gone for this brief visit to the hospital for these tests, it was announced that on Saturday he will be meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.
 
However, there are persistent concerns about his health, keeping in mind, of course, that back in March he under -- he went to hospital because of a lung inflammation. And in June of last year, he went -- underwent abdominal surgery. So, there's persistent concerns about the pope, keeping in mind, of course, that he is 87 years old.
 
John.
 
BERMAN: Eighty-seven years old. Keeping a busy schedule, but clearly dealing with something, at least right now.
 
Ben Wedeman, thank you so much. Keep us posted.
 
Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: So, we have new CNN reporting in that the Treasury Department has quietly deployed a new tool to help combat fraud, artificial intelligence.
 
CNN's Matt Egan has this new reporting and he's joining us now. 
 
Matt, is this -- do we have Matt Egan? We have Matt Egan now. Good to know. 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: You do, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Good.
 
Matt, is this working? What are you learning? 
 
EGAN: Kate, I am told that this has been a game changer for the federal government. Now, CNN has learned that starting around late 2022, Treasury quietly started using AI powered fraud detection methods. All of it designed to try to catch bad guys. Essentially fraudsters who are trying to steal from the federal government. 
 
And this strategy is paying dividends, especially when it comes to detecting check fraud. Treasury officials tell CNN that just in fiscal 2023 alone these AI powered methods, they helped the government recover $375 million and they lead to multiple arrests. 
 
Now, this is the first time that Treasury is publicly acknowledging that it is using AI to try to fight financial crime. And this is a strategy that banks and credit card companies and others in the private sector, that they are using. 
 
The IRS is also turning to AI. Last September the IRS announced that it is deploying AI to try to find tax cheats. 
 
Now, we should note that this is a bit of a different kind of AI than what gets all of the headlines, right? Generative AI is what powers Googles' Gemini. It's what allows ChatGPT to craft song lyrics and it's also what is letting OpenAI create movie quality video. 
 
This is a little bit different. This is more like big data and machine learning. Still clearly the federal government, it really needs all the help that it can get because fraud is a massive problem, especially since Covid. We know that fraudsters really seized on the fact that the federal government was handing out hundreds of billions of dollars of aid. Check fraud in particular has been a problem. It is up by 385 percent since Covid. 
 
And here's what AI can really help. AI is very, very good at combing through vast amounts of data, spotting red flags and doing that all with lightning-fast speed. One security CEO told me that once you train an AI model, it's able to spot problems in milliseconds. And so, Kate, that means that in some cases, Treasury has been able to
 
 find anomalies, alert banks, and prevent the checks from ever being cashed. 
 <br>[09:00:05]
 
And the crazy thing here, Kate, is all of this is really just getting started.