Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Microsoft-CrowdStrike Issue Causes Largest IT Outage in History; A Defiant Biden Planning to Resume Campaigning Despite Several Calls from Democrats to Step Aside; International Court of Justice Rules Against Israeli Occupation of West Bank; Donald Trump Accepts Nomination At Republican National Convention; Tel Aviv On Heightened Alert After Deadly Drone Attack. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired July 19, 2024 - 14:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT:  A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, complete cyber meltdown across the globe 
 
 today. A software glitch stops flights, trains, banks, hospital, shoppers and more, and the pain continues for many.
 
Also ahead, a defiant President Biden says he will campaign next week. Right now, he's resting due to COVID, but the number of Democrats calling 
 
 for him to go is growing this hour. And the top U.N. court says Israel's occupation of West Bank and east Jerusalem is illegal. We are live in the 
 
 region with the reaction. 
 
But first, a mass tech outage is causing chaos right across the globe today. Travelers, businesses, hospitals, broadcasters and more have all 
 
 faced major disruptions after a glitch stemming from a software update for Microsoft Windows issued by cyber security firm CrowdStrike. 
 
We are told it's not a cyber attack. Airline customers are especially hard hit as we've been showing you here on CNN, from Asia to Europe as well as 
 
 the Americas, thousands of flights have been canceled and even more are delayed. The tech outage is also slamming banks and markets, including 
 
 right here, the London Stock Exchange website. 
 
At least, one expert says this could be one of the largest cyber outage in history. CrowdStrike meantime is apologizing and says it's working with 
 
 customers to try to resolve the issues. Our Fred Pleitgen has a look at this global IT meltdown. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Thousands of frustrated passengers grounded from Delhi to Berlin to Los 
 
 Angeles. A global cyber outage pressing pause on the world. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Nobody was around to tell us where we could check in when we arrived. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm frustrated, people keep cutting in the queues.
 
PLEITGEN:  Airlines facing what is known as B-S-O-D, blue screens of death. With supermarkets, banks, stock exchanges, TV networks, even some hospitals 
 
 also at the mercy of the widespread IT malfunctions. The major disruption is set to stem at least partly from an antivirus software update issued by 
 
 the cyber security firm, CrowdStrike. The company assuring customers that it is not a cyber or security attack. 
 
GEORGE KURTZ, CEO, CROWDSTRIKE:  The system was sent an update and that update had a software bug in it. We identified this very quickly and 
 
 remediated the issue, and as systems come back online, as they're rebooted, they're coming up and they're working. 
 
And now, we are working with each and every customer to make sure that we can bring them back online. 
 
PLEITGEN:  Microsoft, among the clients impacted says it is investigating the crash, which is preventing its clients from accessing its apps and 
 
 services. The global scale of the outage became clear as the world began to wake up on Friday. Airports across Europe, Asia and the U.S. forced to a 
 
 standstill. 
 
Healthcare services from Israel to the U.K. facing admin glitches. While the Paris 2024 Olympic organizers also reported issues a week out from the 
 
 games. World leaders and businesses are now grappling with how to untangle the critical services from the outage.  
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, CHANCELLOR, GERMANY (through translator):  Germany's security institutions are in close cooperation with those from many other countries 
 
 across the world. 
 
PLEITGEN:  The crash quick to show just how deeply reliant all aspects of daily life are in the tech world. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES:  Well, we are tracking the global outage right across the globe. Our Anna Stewart is at Heathrow Airport right here in London, and our 
 
 Isabel Rosales is at the world's busiest airport, Hartsfield-Jackson in Atlanta, Georgia. Isabel, let me start with you.
 
I mean, the world's busiest airport, just to -- give us a sense of how it's impacting passengers and flights. I see the long queue just behind you. 
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN REPORTER:  Yes, Isa, hey, we've been here since 5:00 in the morning, about nine hours now, and a little bit of positivity is that 
 
 the line is not all the way to the back. We've seen a considerable lessening of passengers here. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
However, I've been told by an airline employee that may be due to the fact that so many people have been rebooked for flights tomorrow. So, maybe a 
 
 sign of what's to come tomorrow, more headaches. People have been understandably anxious. They've been irritated by this entire situation. 
 
 More than 600 flights delayed or canceled at this airport alone today, not only the world's busiest airport, but the airport with the most 
 
 cancellations in the entirety of the United States at least for right now. 
 
Passengers, a lot of them with sensitive places that they need to get to, trying to make birthdays, family reunions, a marriage and a funeral as 
 
 well. I spoke with so many people today, here's what they told me. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Nobody was really giving us answers. They just said our system's down, our system's down.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It's been really wild as crazy, it's crowded, and I have anxiety right now.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No, send a person going up and down just shouting, oh, Boston here, flight number here. I have no idea where we're going to 
 
 get called next, and I'm just -- I'm beyond frustrated.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ROSALES:  Yes, and a lot of these people, what they're doing right now is essentially waiting to check in, because even if flights have resumed, the 
 
 booking check-in process is still a mess. We're seeing airline staff coming up and down with a bullhorn, essentially telling people, hey, if you're 
 
 going to New Orleans or this particular flight, prioritizing them based on departure time. 
 
That is when they're moved along and can hopefully make it over to TSA. But a lot of frustrations out here, Isa, and no immediate solutions quite yet.  
 
SOARES:  Yes, frustrations and the anxiety very visible indeed. Stay with us, Isabel, let me go to Anna. And Anna, what we have heard in the last few 
 
 hours from CrowdStrike, is that this outage could be in their words, a long and arduous process. They can't be done automatically, it has to be like 
 
 fingers on keyboards here. 
 
How -- what have you seen? Because it's 7 O'clock in U.K., 8 O'clock in Central European Time. Are we seeing any sort of improvement?  
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:  I'm going to let this plane take off so you can actually hear me. Let's give it some time there. We go -- you can see 
 
 some planes are taking off, Isa, in Europe, things are getting better for certain airports, systems are being rebooted, some airlines are managing to 
 
 get everything back online. 
 
But of course, the disruption that we're going to see for the next few hours or days will be considerable. Let's just put this into context. We've 
 
 had IT outages before. There was a big one for Delta, I think in 2017, there was one in 2016 for British Airways. The difference here is, this is 
 
 an outage that it doesn't just impact airlines, but certainly, it does impact airlines and airports right across the world. 
 
The disruption is huge, two hours ago, 5 O'clock in the U.K., 4,300 flights have been canceled worldwide. That number will have ticked higher since 
 
 then. And there's the flights being canceled. You've got to imagine all of the hundreds or thousands of flights that have been delayed. Some severely 
 
 delayed. 
 
And you could see what Isabel, so many people have spent the whole day sitting around and waiting in airports. So, the disruption here is 
 
 something that we haven't really seen on this scale for what is an IT outage, a single point failure having such a big knock-on-effect for 
 
 people. And this is really one of the busiest days of travel in Europe. It's the beginning of the Summer holidays.  
 
SOARES:  Indeed, it is, as kids break up for school today, it is important, many families trying to get away. Isabel, let me go back to you. I wonder, 
 
 I mean, you're saying some people are able to check in. What of airlines? I know it depends on the airline that you're traveling with, but what are 
 
 airlines recommending? What are they advising passengers to check before you travel? What are they saying?
 
ROSALES:  Right, Isa, exactly that. Before you head to the airport, check on the app, check on -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ROSALES:  The website, make sure your flight is still good to go before involving yourself in this chaos. But what's also interesting, Isa, is very 
 
 different experiences that passengers are having depending on the airline that they chose to book with. 
 
So, we know that Delta has the most cancellations in the United States so far, but things like Southwest and JetBlue, zero impacts they're saying. 
 
 So, I saw two friends today, two moms trying to get back home, one booked on Spirit, had to go through this entire line, still no answers, still 
 
 waiting around, her friend headed to the same city, no problems, made it right through security. Everything was fine.  
 
SOARES:  And Anna, if I can just go back to you very briefly. I mean, what is the pictures -- Anna still with us? What is the picture, Anna, that 
 
 you're getting because I know that you and Marc Stewart are both up at the same time, roughly throughout the day, or is the picture in Asia, how have 
 
 they been impacted or is it more of the same?  
 
STEWART:  It's really been more of the same. When a big -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  Like Isabel was saying, some airlines impacted more than others, really depending on who was exposed to the specific software update, 
 
 essentially, from this big cybersecurity firm. So, depending on how exposed we were to that, it didn't really matter where you were in the world. 
 <br>[14:10:00]
 
SOARES:  Yes, and I suppose if you're a big company -- you probably can't hear me, Anna. But if you're a big company and you have invested in IT 
 
 departments, then you can probably get this done quicker, right? So, I know you'll be watching -- both will be watching the developments. Thank you 
 
 very much Isabel Rosales, Anna Stewart, very noisy there in Heathrow, appreciate it. 
 
It's a good sign it's noisy anyway, at least some flights are taking off. Turning now to our other major story today, the Democratic floodgates 
 
 appear to be opening. Thirty House lawmakers and three senators from his own party now say it's time for President Joe Biden to exit the race. 
 
But the calls are not just from -- coming from Capitol Hill, a newly formed Super PAC called Pass the Torch is launching a television ad campaign 
 
 against the president. Well, have a look at this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  President Biden, you saved democracy in 2020. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Now, you have a chance to do it again.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's time to pass the torch and let us choose a new nominee. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  One who can bring new energy, new hope -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And make sure Donald Trump never gets near the White House again. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Our country's future is in your hands.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So, please, be the leader we know you are. Pass the torch, Joe.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Pass the torch.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Pass the torch.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Pass the Torch is responsible for the content of this advertising.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  But President Biden remains publicly defiant. And in a new statement issued by his campaign today, he says, quote, "I look forward to 
 
 getting back on the campaign trail next week to continue exposing the threat of Donald Trump's Project 2025 agenda."  
 
Camila DeChalus is tracking the Biden campaign for us and joins us from the -- from the White House in Washington D.C. And Camila, I mean, it has been 
 
 -- let's be very honest here, pretty grim 24 hours for the Biden campaign as, you know, more Democratics -- more Democrats, pardon me, call for him 
 
 to step down. But he is pushing back as we just saw there. So, just give us a sense of what you are hearing. 
 
CAMILA DECHALUS, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  That's right, President Biden is in Rehoboth, Delaware, where he's self-isolating and recovering from 
 
 COVID. But that has not stopped him from putting out a statement just as you mentioned, reiterating how he hopes to join the campaign trail next 
 
 week to really talk to voters and still make the case of why he deserves to be re-elected for a second term, and how former President Donald Trump 
 
 poses a great threat to democracy.  
 
Now, his campaign team and his advisors have gone out talking on TV shows and really reiterating this message that there is no plan at this time for 
 
 them to support an alternative nominee, and that Biden continues to remain on the top of the ticket. 
 
But as you mentioned also, that there are a number of Democratic lawmakers that are coming out, just saying that he should step aside, and that has 
 
 become a real big challenge for Biden and his campaign, is that the time where he really needs to coalesce and gather the support behind him. 
 
You have these people that are stepping aside, stepping out of the way and saying that they are looking for a possible -- another person to be 
 
 nominated in this process. And so, what you're seeing behind the scenes as a lot of his campaign is making calls to Democratic mayors and Democratic 
 
 elected officials to really shore up support for Biden in this time where he needs it the most. 
 
SOARES:  And really, look, the campaign can say whatever they want, but the reality is, as we've just said, is that 30 Democratic lawmakers are now 
 
 calling on him to step aside, and that our needs as well as anxiety perhaps extends to donors. What are we hearing from the donor front?  
 
DECHALUS:  There's a lot of mixed messages when it comes to that pool of Democratic donors who -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
DECHALUS:  Have done the support around Biden, but after his first presidential debate performance, they have expressed their concerns of 
 
 whether he is fit to continue to run for office. And so, in the upcoming days, we're always going to be checking in, and we kind of are hearing that 
 
 they want to see how this plays out.
 
I've actually talked to some civil rights leaders just that -- I was just with President Biden this past week. And I asked them how they thought how 
 
 he was doing even before he would announce that he had COVID. And their message was this, that he seemed like his normal self. 
 
And that they still want to throw their support behind him. And so, you're going to see, at least, days ahead that Biden, his campaign team are going 
 
 to be reaching out to donors, Democratic officials and lawmakers to just reiterate how they feel that Biden, what he has done in the last three 
 
 years, and how he should be fit for office and be re-elected for a second term. 
 
And that most importantly, they need their support so they can go back to their constituents, and really make the argument and the case for him, but 
 
 the donor compulsion of this is a really big deal. How Biden is going to keep shoring up campaign funds, to keep -- continue to be on the campaign 
 
 trail and really effectively convey this message. That will be a key component here.  
 
SOARES:  Camila, appreciate it, thank you very much. Indeed, let's continue this conversation. I want to welcome in David Rothkopf; columnist for "The 
 
 Daily Beast" and host of "Deep State Radio", and Democratic campaign consultant, Tim Hogan, the former spokesperson for Hillary Clinton's 2016 
 
 campaign. 
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
Gentlemen, welcome to the show. Look, I'm not sure about you, but I feel that there's a lot of reading tea leaves, at least, has been the last kind 
 
 of 48 hours, reading, trying to read the tea leaves. Today, we have up to 30, I think, lawmakers now, including one senator, I think calling on 
 
 President Biden to step aside, and that includes Texas Congressman Mike Quigley, the first member of the congressional black caucus to publicly 
 
 call for Biden to step aside.
 
Tim, to you first. I mean, where are we right now? How do you frame this moment? Is this a question of if, or is this a question of when? How do you 
 
 see it?   
 
TIM HOGAN, DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN CONSULTANT:  Well, I think right now, you're continuing to see from the Biden campaign, and you saw it this morning from 
 
 their campaign manager. You saw it in this statement from President Joe Biden himself. You haven't heard from the White House, the campaign, 
 
 President Biden that there's any indication that there's movement that he's stepping down. And they have to say that, so, for the time being -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
HOGAN:  The President is the nominee, and they're going to continue to reiterate that statement.   
 
SOARES:  And that's something we've heard time and time again, it will be interesting to see how that, you know, how many lawmakers we need to see 
 
 before that -- he changes his mind, perhaps. David, let me go to you, CNN understands -- from CNN sources that the President is listening on that, he 
 
 is receptive, but he doesn't agree on the polling.
 
So, perhaps, some stubbornness here. But let's assume for a moment that he does stay in the race, and I want to take you -- get your viewpoint here. 
 
 How politically-damaged is he by the divisions, by his fellow Democrats?   
 
DAVID ROTHKOPF, COLUMNIST, THE DAILY BEAST:  Well, I think he can recover from it. I think he and -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ROTHKOPF:  Vice President Harris can have a successful convention that can be used to bring the party together. I think it will be very smart if the 
 
 campaign then went out with not just one voice or two voices, but with the entire deep Democratic bench, supporting the message of the President, the 
 
 Vice President.
 
And I think, you know, that can work because everybody, regardless of which side of this issue they are on, shares the belief that Donald Trump 
 
 represents an existential threat to American democracy. And that therefore, the Democrats must win. And you know, this is true. 
 
Both of the Biden supporters and of those who like and love Biden, and admire what he's done, but think it's time for a change.   
 
SOARES:  And Tim, you know, we have seen today this week in the last three days of the RNC, pretty much unity or at least, it seems like unity to us 
 
 within the Republican Party. But -- and what we are seeing, it seems some sort of division within the Democratic Party. 
 
But Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, I'm not sure well, if you call -- what she said today. She has gone further. She's been blaming the 
 
 elites. I want you to listen to this and we can talk off the back of that. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY):  If you think that there's consensus among the people who want Joe Biden to leave, that Kamala -- that they will 
 
 support Kamala, Vice President Harris, you would be mistaken. A lot of them are not just interested in removing the President. They are interested in 
 
 removing the whole ticket. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  Tim, what do you make of that? I mean, does she have a point? Is this a donor coup to replace the entire ticket here?   
 
HOGAN:  Well, I think just on the unity question very quickly -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
HOGAN:  Look on the Republican side with the Republican Convention, yes, in that hall, they were energized and unified. But it's also worth noting who 
 
 wasn't there. We didn't have Mitt Romney there, former President George W. Bush was not there, Vice President Mike Pence was not there. 
 
I wonder if J.D. Vance called him and asked why the position was available, something that you do in a job interview. In addition to a bunch of his 
 
 staff, from Defense Secretaries to National Security advisors. So, yes, he re-made the Republican Party in that hall, but he also shrunk it. 
 
On the Democratic side, I agree that look, there are a bunch of motivating factors for Democrats. They were going to bring them together at the 
 
 convention, no matter what happens because we are a party that doesn't have sacred cows, we're not built around a cult or a personality. 
 
We care about protecting healthcare and making sure the economy is growing and helping the middle-class. And so, at the end of the day, wherever we go 
 
 at this conversation, and it's a conversation that has started in a healthy way. It's grueling, it's difficult. I think the Democratic Party will 
 
 emerge more unified.   
 
SOARES:  OK, let's try and then push this forward, David, because you have written today about Joe Biden's challenge. If he quits, how does he quit? 
 
 So, just explain to our viewers right around the world, how does he do that? How does he do that without further fracturing this party?  
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
ROTHKOPF:  Well, you know, I mean, if he makes a gracious statement, says, look, I'm thinking of the future of the party and that's why I'm doing 
 
 this, and I'm thinking of the future of the country. I think it's going to generate a great  deal of goodwill. Many people love him. I think in fact, 
 
 across the party, there's very high regard for him.   
 
But the immediate question then becomes, who replaces him? And if he leaves that question open for too long, I think that could lead to more fractures 
 
 within the party. There's one other person who was elected by the entire country in 2020, one other person who served by his side, who has been as 
 
 responsible for the agenda as he is, and somebody who's got enormous support across the country, across the Hill, who has really found her own 
 
 voice in the past year and that's Vice President Harris.  
 
And I think the only option for moving gracefully to a unified party that carries forward the Biden-Harris agenda is handing the torch to Kamala 
 
 Harris. 
 
SOARES:  And David, as you're talking, we're seeing the Vice President Kamala Harris just moments ago actually, getting ice cream, I think was 
 
 with her nieces. On that point then, David, just -- do you think the majority of Democrats -- is there unity in that -- in Kamala Harris. What 
 
 have you been hearing on that?
 
ROTHKOPF:  I see a lot of support for Kamala Harris. I've heard -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ROTHKOPF:  Other people say, well, an open convention could be very interesting and exciting. But by far, the predominant support -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ROTHKOPF:  That I've heard and seen is for the Vice President. 
 
SOARES:  And Tim, our CNN colleague Isaac Dovere said this today in a piece for cnn.com, I'm just going to bring it up, "multiple-leading Democrats 
 
 tell CNN they feel caught in what one described as a doom loop. With every move to keep President Joe Biden in or push him out, further destroying 
 
 their chances against Donald Trump." 
 
I suppose, you know, given what we've heard and what we keep hearing, and there seems like, you know, winds taking us one way, step forward, two 
 
 steps back. How damaging, if it -- well, damaging your view, has this week been for the Democrats? And how do you see it shaping up in the days ahead?   
 
HOGAN:  Yes. There's no question that over the last three weeks we've had a really painful conversation in the Democratic Party, but I do think that's 
 
 an indication of a healthy party. Look, the other -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
HOGAN:  Side has someone, and they nominated him officially last night, someone who has been convicted on 34 felony counts, and this discussion is 
 
 not happening on their sites. So, I think regardless of what happens, Democrats emerge as a functional political party, and a party that has a 
 
 platform not based on a person's retribution or revenge, but a platform that is based on helping working people.
 
And I think that message framing in this election, no matter what happens going forward, is a good contrast for Democrats and will keep them 
 
 extremely competitive in November up and down the ticket. 
 
SOARES:  Can I just ask very quickly, do you think Tim -- and I'll go to you, David, as well? Do you think that President Joe Biden will step aside?   
 
HOGAN:  I don't think any indication that we are getting right now from him -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
HOGAN:  Is that he's going to step aside. Look, to your point earlier, it is a little bit of tea-leaf reading, but we're hearing now he's going to 
 
 emerge, he's going to go on the campaign trail on Monday, and until he makes a decision to not be the nominee, he holds all those cards. So, I 
 
 would say right now -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
HOGAN:  He's the nominee moving forward.   
 
SOARES:  Yes, and David, what is your -- I mean, what is your take? How do you see this playing out? Do you think he will step aside?   
 
ROTHKOPF:  Well, you know, as an expert appearing on TV, I'm not supposed to say I don't know, that I have no idea. 
 
SOARES:  And anyone who says it -- hasn't -- is not speaking the truth unless they're inside that White House and speaking to -- 
 
ROTHKOPF:  Yes, and I think that -- 
 
SOARES:  Right? 
 
ROTHKOPF:  I think that's right. 
 
SOARES:  And just before -- 
 
ROTHKOPF:  That's right -- 
 
SOARES:  I leave you, boys -- just before I leave you guys, both of you very quickly, we're hearing now the Vice President Kamala Harris is going 
 
 to join a call with donors this afternoon. This is according to a source telling CNN. So, Harris, the Vice President to join a call with donors amid 
 
 of course, the ongoing concerns. 
 
So, clearly, they are listening and they're trying to appease those concerns and those worries. Gentlemen, thank you to you both, Tim, thank 
 
 you very much, David, appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
ROTHKOPF:  Thank you. 
 
SOARES:  And still to come tonight, the Republican National Convention has ended up with Donald Trump officially becoming the nominee for president. 
 
 We'll take a look at the final night's events and what's next?  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
SOARES:  Well, Donald Trump officially accepted the Republican nomination for president on the final night of the Republican National Convention. 
 
 Thursday featured a variety of speeches as well as entertainment, not typically seen at political conventions. This is not typical though, Trump 
 
 then gave his acceptance speech, which broke a record for the longest in American history. 
 
At times, his speech was muted, other times more of the Donald Trump we've seen before. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE:  We are bound together by a single faith and a shared destiny. We rise together or we fall apart. I am 
 
 running to be president for all of America. 
 
I stand before you in this arena only by the grace of Almighty God. 
 
They should drop these partisan witch-hunts to launch the largest deportation operation in the history of our country.
 
They used COVID to cheat. We're never going to let it happen again. 
 
Have people that are a lot less than fierce, except when it comes to cheating on elections.
 
If you took the ten worst presidents in the history of the United States, think of it, the ten worst, added them up, they will not have done the 
 
 damage that Biden has done. 
 
For the rest of the world, which is laughing at us. They think we're stupid. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  Well, for more on the final night, and what's really next? I'm joined by CNN's Eva McKend. Eva, great to see you.  Look, we were told 
 
 yesterday, days before that, there was going to be a unified speech, and I think initially, the first kind of 20-25 minutes, his tone was definitely 
 
 more subdued, right?
 
And then it became disjointed, divisive and back to the old Trump. So, give us a sense of what -- how it was received, what the campaign is saying, 
 
 they felt, how did they do it?   
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  You know, Isa, they're really trying to steer the conversation back to the show of unity 
 
 that Republicans illustrated at the convention all week long. They're comfortable that overall, it illustrated a real contrast with the 
 
 Democratic Party right now who continues to be mired in chaos as it seems with each passing hour. 
 
Another member of Congress calls for President Biden to step aside. Now, some of his advisors were telegraphing, he would maintain a forward-looking 
 
 message and giving address that was unifying, but he quickly descended into his familiar talking points, calling immigrants, invaders, and belittling 
 
 former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. What that showed is that he really couldn't resist those instincts. 
 
SOARES:  And now we have heard in the last what? Hour and a half or so either from President Biden, and he gave us his kind of 2 cents really on 
 
 what he made of Trump's speech. Just give us a sense of what he said. 
 
MCKEND:  So, President Biden blasted Trump for having no plan to unite the country and make life better for working people. 
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
And, Isa, this is going to be a stick -- a theme that they stick with. I was on a campaign trail yesterday with Vice President Harris and she argued 
 
 that this idea that Trump and Vance are sort of casting themselves as people who are principally concerned about the working class is just not 
 
 true. 
 
So I expect that Biden and Harris are going to continue to poke holes in that argument. Biden also arguing today that Trump has a dark vision for 
 
 the future that doesn't illustrate who we are as Americans. 
 
He also said that he looks forward to returning to the campaign trail next week. You know, of course, he said that he has COVID and so that has 
 
 stopped his momentum a bit. He can't be out there making the case for himself, though Vice President Harris will be out on the trail next week as 
 
 well in Milwaukee, and Biden hopes to be back out making the case doing the same. 
 
ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR: Eva, can I just pick your brain? Can I just pick your brain? You're on the campaign trail with the VP. I mean, what are 
 
 American voters telling you? How worried are they about this conversation? Are they concerned about this conversation about President Biden? As we 
 
 see, like you said, hour by hour, more Democrats calling for step aside. Is that what you're hearing from Americans? 
 
MCKEND: So I've been with the Vice President, I would say at about six events in the last two weeks, and many of these events include invited 
 
 guests. But even they have some concerns right now about this conversation. Ultimately, many of them, especially older black voters, they feel as 
 
 though it's too risky for President Biden to pass the torch at this late juncture. 
 
And what I'm hearing from them is no matter what happens, if he stays or if he goes, if Harris ascends to the top of the ticket or if it's another 
 
 Democrat, they are most worried about the former president not getting reelected. 
 
I don't see this clamoring, though, for him to step aside from the base of the party and his core supporters. That may, of course, be different in 
 
 independent voters that don't show up to these type of rallies that I'm at. But that same sort of fever that we see from members of Congress is not 
 
 illustrated in the base of the party. 
 
SOARES: Absolutely fascinated, Eva. Thank you very much. Really appreciate it.
 
And still to come on the show tonight, the U.N.'s top court says Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories is illegal. Have all the reaction to 
 
 that landmark opinion. That is next. That was really interesting. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
[4:36:08]
 
SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. In a landmark opinion, the U.N.'s top court has said that Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem are 
 
 illegal. 
 
The International Court of Justice opinion, which is not legally binding, stated that Israel should end its presence in the occupied Palestinian 
 
 territory as soon as possible. The Palestinian Authority welcomed the news, calling, "a watershed moment." Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIYAD AL-MALIKI, PALESTINIAN SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE: All states and the U.N. are now under obligation not to recognize the legality of Israel's 
 
 presence in the occupied Palestinian territory and to do nothing to assist Israel in maintaining this illegal situation. They are directed by the 
 
 court to bring Israel's illegal occupation to an end. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES: Meanwhile, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu rejected the court's finding, saying that, "The Jewish people are not conquerors in 
 
 their own land."
 
I want to get more on this story from our Jerusalem correspondent Jeremy Diamond, who tonight is for us -- with us from Tel Aviv. And Jeremy, let me 
 
 start with that ruling from the ICJ. We know it's not legally binding, but it does carry, I think it's important to point out, political and legal 
 
 weight. So give us a bit more insight into what we've heard from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, there's no question that there have been recriminations in the Israeli government, in Israeli 
 
 politics as it relates to this ICJ ruling, the latest ICJ ruling, which the Israeli government, of course, vehemently disagrees with. 
 
You mentioned the fact that the Israeli prime minister said that the Israeli people are not conquerors in their own land. He also said that no 
 
 false decision in The Hague will distort what he calls a historical truth, just as he says the legality of Israeli settlements in all of the 
 
 territories of our homeland cannot be contested. 
 
We're also getting reaction from far-right members of Netanyahu's government, like the finance minister, Bezalel Smotrich, who took to 
 
 Twitter to say sovereignty now, which is effectively a call for annexing the entirety of the West Bank, what he would refer to as Judea and Samaria. 
 
 This ruling by the International Court of Justice, unrelated, we should note, to that South Africa's case accusing Israel of genocide, that case, 
 
 in that case, we've seen that the rulings are considered legally binding. 
 
This, though, is an advisory ruling. It stems from the U.N. in 2022, the U.N.'s General Assembly asking the court for a ruling on how it considers 
 
 the legality and the consequences of Israel's occupation in the West Bank. And so the court here not only saying that it believes that these 
 
 settlements that Israeli control, Israeli presence in the West Bank and East Jerusalem is illegal, but also calling on Israel to immediately 
 
 withdraw from that area and also to make reparations for any damage that has been caused. 
 
SOARES: And I know you'll stay across the reaction from that, but I want to turn our attention, because you are, of course, in Tel Aviv. And earlier in 
 
 the day, I saw that you were on the scene of a deadly drone attack in Tel Aviv, an attack that the Houthi rebels, from what I understand, in Yemen 
 
 have claimed responsibility. What more can you tell us about that? And critically, the number of people would be injured as a result of this, 
 
 Jeremy. 
 
DIAMOND: Yes, that's right. And this is the first time we should note that a Houthi drone attack has successfully hit Tel Aviv. And it happened in the 
 
 early hours of this morning, around 3:00 in the morning, without any warning sirens going off, without the drone being intercepted by Israel's 
 
 aerial defense. 
 
One man in his 50s was actually killed. He was found in his bed suffering shrapnel injuries and pronounced dead on the scene by paramedics. 
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
Eight other people were hospitalized, though all of them have now been released. I was on the scene, and what you could see was shrapnel damaging 
 
 the windows, the apartment buildings nearby, as well as multiple vehicles. 
 
I spoke with several residents who told me what they heard, including one man who was on his balcony just seconds before impact.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And as soon as I turn around to close the door behind me, my friend yells, what's that? I hear this sound like an F-35 or an F-
 
 15, but it was 40 meters above sea level. It didn't make no sense to be that close. And I hear, boom, red, orange blasts, heats on the back of my 
 
 neck. I would get pushed forward. The doors blast open. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The windows were, you know, broken, shattered. A lot of glass, ceramics, a lot of things were on the floor. And we realized that 
 
 it was just outside the door. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
DIAMOND: And the Israeli military says that this was an Iranian Samad-3 drone that the Houthis upgraded to be able to travel longer distances and 
 
 reach Tel Aviv. 
 
Now, as for why this drone was not intercepted, why sirens did not go off in Tel Aviv, the Israeli military says that it is investigating why it 
 
 didn't identify, attack and intercept it, although earlier today, an Israeli military official said human error was to blame, Isa. 
 
SOARES: Jeremy Diamond for us this hour in Tel Aviv. Appreciate it. Thanks very much, Jeremy. 
 
Well, the U.K. has announced it will restart funding for the UN Relief Agency for Palestine Refugees. 
 
The new foreign secretary, David Lammy, spoke earlier about why. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID LAMMY, BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY: This has been a priority from day one because of the desperate situation in Gaza and the serious risk of 
 
 escalation in Lebanon in particular. And I have to be frank, Britain wants an immediate ceasefire. 
 
The fighting must stop. The hostages must be released. Much, much more aid must enter Gaza. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES: And the previous U.K. government, like many other countries, paused funding in January following allegations by Israel that 12 UNRWA staff 
 
 members were involved in the October 7 attack by Hamas. 
 
In a statement, the U.K. Foreign Office said, "We are reassured that after Catherine Colonna's independent review, UNRWA is ensuring they meet the 
 
 highest standards of neutrality and strengthening its procedures, including on vetting." 
 
Still to come tonight, outrage and sadness after a Russian court reaches a verdict in the espionage trial of an American journalist. We have the 
 
 reaction from the White House. That's just ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:45:42]
 
SOARES: While in a trial, U.S. officials have called a sham. Russian courts have found an American journalist guilty of espionage and sentencing him to 
 
 16 years in prison. 
 
Wall Street journalist, reporter, general reporter Evan Gershkovich has been held in Russia for 15 months accused of spying for the CIA. He has 
 
 vehemently denied the charges. The White House says Gershkovich was targeted by the Russians simply because he's an American and a journalist. 
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says the United States is working, "quite literally" every day to bring him home. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Ahead of the verdict in the Russian courthouse, cameras jostled for a glimpse of 
 
 the U.S. journalist in his glass cape. After finding him guilty of espionage, the judge asked Evan Gershkovich if he had any questions about 
 
 the 16-year prison sentence he'd been handed.
 
Looking thin and tired, the Wall Street Journal reporter answered no. The critics say his guilty verdict was inevitable and underlines how 
 
 politicized Russia's judicial system has become. A strongly worded statement from Gershkovich's employers called it a disgraceful and sham 
 
 conviction that comes after his 478 days in prison, wrongfully detained and away from his family.
 
CHANCE: You can see Evan Gershkovich is in there. Hi, Matthew from CNN. Are you holding up all right? 
 
CHANCE (voice-over): It's been a saga which has seen Evan Gershkovich, now 32, make several tightly controlled court appearances since being detained 
 
 and accused of gathering secret information on a Russian tank factory for the CIA, allegations denied by Gershkovich and the U.S. government.
 
There are other U.S. citizens held in Russia, like Paul Whelan, a former Marine, sentenced in 2020 to 16 years for spying and also designated by 
 
 Washington as wrongly detained. 
 
Dual citizens Ksenia Karelina, an amateur ballerina from L.A., and journalist Alsu Kurmasheva are also in custody. As are Gordon Black, a 
 
 staff sergeant in the U.S. Army, and U.S. schoolteacher Marc Fogel. Critics suspect the Kremlin has been collecting U.S. citizens as bargaining chips 
 
 for a future deal. 
 
But even now, that deal could still be months or perhaps years away. Matthew Chance, CNN London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES: And still to come tonight, travelers are missing life events like funerals and birthdays, whilst stuck in a holding pattern after a global 
 
 tech outage grounded tens of thousands of flights right around the world. We'll have the very latest for you after this very short break. You are 
 
 watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:50:55]
 
SOARES: Returning now to our top story, a massive tech outage that one expert says is set to be the largest in history, causing chaos worldwide, 
 
 especially as we showed you at the top of the hour. At airports, the outage crippled facilities across the globe.
 
It's grounded flights. It's left hundreds of thousands of passengers in limbo, still in limbo, many, as we showed you. Flight cancellations have 
 
 climbed over 3,700, with more than 33,000 flights delayed worldwide.
 
Travelers are understandably anxious as their plans are upended. In Houston, Texas, therapy dogs are making the rounds, you can see there, 
 
 offering support for travelers, where nearly 100 flights have been cancelled already. Our correspondent Tom Foreman joins me now from 
 
 Washington, DC.
 
And, Tom, I was seeing flight cancellations into or out the U.S. of 2,000 flights. I think this was in the last hour or so. And this, as we hear from 
 
 CrowdStrike, recovering from this process could be long and arduous.
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, the interesting thing is fixing the basic problem. It didn't take them a terribly long time to figure out what 
 
 it was. They say the patch is in place.
 
In some cases, though, it really is having to be manually installed to fix the basic problem. And then there are these problems that have been baked 
 
 into the system now. People stranded at airports.
 
That means planes didn't take off. Those planes weren't somewhere else they need to be. The crews are in the wrong places. That's the kind of thing 
 
 that automatically drags on a long time. 
 
But the other thing, Isa, is when you look at the footprint of Microsoft products and CrowdStrike, which had this bit of corrupted software that 
 
 interacted badly with these Microsoft products, you get a sense of how much of the world is being touched by this in so many different ways. That's why 
 
 it would take long to recover, even if the computer systems right now were perfect.
 
SOARES: Yes, it is astounding to think that a common software update could cause this level of chaos. But it does perhaps give us some insight into 
 
 but perhaps we shouldn't be putting all our eggs in one basket, right? 
 
FOREMAN: Yes, that's one of the concerns here. People are saying, look, this company is well known as a great cybersecurity company. Some are 
 
 beginning to say maybe that's the problem. You can't have one company that is that much relied upon or you can have this kind of impact. And honestly, 
 
 Isa, if we looked at all of these results and somebody told us this was a result of a cyber attack or a malicious attack, everyone would believe it 
 
 because this is what we've always imagined it to be.
 
And yet this was a mistake by a company that tries to protect people from that. That's why cybersecurity analysts are beginning to say maybe this 
 
 should be a real warning for everybody. 
 
SOARES: And what we are hearing, we spoke to two of our correspondents, one in the London airport, one in Atlanta, in Hartsfield airport as well. And 
 
 different airlines, I know it's impacted health industry, it's impacted pretty much across the board, banks, et cetera. But what we are hearing is 
 
 that certain aspects of airlines are being -- are resolving the issue much quicker, Tom. And I think that has to do with how much money, how many 
 
 resources, how big your IT department is.
 
I mean, some people perhaps don't even have an IT department. Maybe it's outsourced. I mean, that's also part of the problem for this delay, is it 
 
 not? 
 
FOREMAN: Sure, sure. And how much you rely on, for example, Microsoft products. You may have a company that relies on Microsoft products. If we 
 
 said by percentages, oh, 10 percent of what they do counts on Microsoft. Well, maybe they can regroup a little bit faster. 
 
But you really point out a real key there. The more companies rely on automated robotic systems, AI, whatever it is, when you reach moments where 
 
 you probably actually need people to do it, you just do not have the people.
 
And at so many of these airports, what people are saying is, look, we're not mad at the airport workers from the airline. There are just a handful 
 
 of them. And there are thousands of us. They just can't do it. 
 
SOARES: Yes, and when you need fingers on keyboards, that explains really the challenge ahead. 
 <br>[14:55:02]
 
Tom, really appreciate you breaking it all down for us. Great to see you. Tom Foreman. 
 
FOREMAN: Nice to see you too, Isa.
 
SOARES: Thank you. 
 
Now, the pandemonium, I know, is building at the San Diego Zoo in California. The zoo just shared the first official video of the panda duo 
 
 on loan from China. There we are. But the public will finally be able to see the pandas live on August the 8th.
 
The guests will be able to make reservations for a 60-minute panda walking tour, get a time ticket or wait in standby line for their chance to view 
 
 the pandas. 
 
And you may want to turn your heads to the cosmos this very weekend. According to NASA, the next full moon is arriving just in time for the 
 
 Apollo 11 lunar landing anniversary. The Buck Moon, as July's full moon is known, will make an appearance for three days starting tonight and through 
 
 Monday morning. 
 
It is expected to reach its peak around 6:00 a.m. Eastern time on Sunday. It apparently tells me, my producer, it's a good sign for Capricorns. If 
 
 you're a Capricorn like me, read into it. Let's make the most of it. 
 
Have a lovely weekend. Thanks for your company. Do stay right here. "NEWSROOM" with Jim Sciutto is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END