Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Harris Accepts Nomination with DNC Speech; Adam Kinzinger is Interviewed about DNC Speech; Undecided Voters in Pennsylvania Weigh in on Harris Speech; Fact-Checking Harris's DNC Speech. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired August 23, 2024 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: A historic night for Kamala Harris and Democrats here in Chicago. The vice president embraced by her family, her running mate, and her party after accepting the nomination to be president of the United States. A packed house cheering Harris on as she closed the Democratic convention with the most consequential speech, certainly, of her political career, sharing her personal story, diving into policy, and vowing to be, quote, "a president for all Americans who leads and listens."
 <br>[00:01:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: On behalf of Americans like the people I grew up with -- people who work hard, chase their dreams, and look out for one another -- on behalf of everyone whose story could only be written in the greatest nation on Earth, I accept your nomination to be president of the United States of America. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COOPER: On a night in which Democrats stressed country and patriotism, Harris drew a stark contrast between her vision and Donald Trump's, arguing there would be chaos, calamity, and grave consequences if Donald Trump returns to the White House.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HARRIS: Just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails, and how he would use the immense powers of the presidency of the United States, not to improve your life, not to strengthen our national security, but to serve the only client he has ever had. 
 
America, we are not going back. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COOPER: She's also said that, in many ways, Donald Trump is an unserious man, but the consequences of putting him back into office would be serious. 
 
Our political team is here, breaking down Harris's speech, the convention message, what's next in the campaign. Let's start with M.J. Lee in the convention hall. 
 
So, Vice President Harris's speech is behind her. What is next as this campaign moves forward? 
 
M.J. LEE, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Anderson, the past four days have been a jubilant celebration here in Chicago, culminating with the vice president officially accepting her party's nomination for the presidency.
 
But Anderson, despite all of this around us -- the confetti, and the balloons, and all of the parties that are going to take place later tonight -- we do know, based on people who have spoken to the vice president in recent days, that she actually remains clear-eyed about what could come next. 
 
I'm told by one person who spoke with the vice president in recent days that they've actually not heard the vice president using the word "honeymoon," but that that's really the idea: that the period between President Biden dropping out and tonight has resembled a honeymoon, and that there is recognition by the vice president herself and others on down in the campaign, that the level of enthusiasm and the excitement that we have seen, the momentum that we have seen, that all of those things could wane for reasons that are, or are not, under the vice president's control. 
 
But Anderson, for at least right now, at least for tonight, the partying and the celebration is going to continue. And that includes the vice president, who is currently headed to, we are told, the Queenie's Supper Club here inside the United Center, where she is going to be greeted by excited supporters.
 
And also keep in mind that this is going to be a night of celebration, hopefully, for the vice president and second gentleman, Doug Emhoff. They are celebrating their 10th wedding anniversary tonight -- Anderson. 
 
COOPER: M.J., thanks. 
 
Want to go to Kaitlan Collins on the convention floor -- Kaitlan. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, Anderson, thank you. 
 
I am standing here with someone who has known Vice President Harris for decades. Lateefah Simon is running for Congress in California, but also worked with her very closely four and a half years, not four years in the -- when she was in the D.A.'s office. 
 
What was it like for you to watch her on that stage tonight? 
 
LATEEFAH SIMON (D), CALIFORNIA CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATE: I've got to tell you, I -- I was weeping. I know how hard Kamala works. I know what her goals are. She wants the American people to be good. She wants us to have housing and childcare and healthcare. 
 
Working for her and being a mentee of hers for over 20 years, I know that she wants nothing more but to do the right thing for the American people. 
 
So, my -- my tears were tears of joy for what young people, what our elders, what our veterans deserve. We're going to get closer to it with Kamala Harris as our president. 
 <br>[00:05:02]
 
COLLINS: And you were there, you know, when she ran in the 2020 Democratic primary and after she suspended her campaign. She came home. You had a -- you had a gathering with you that you all kind of rallied around her. 
 
What's it like to see her from that moment when she dropped out of the 2020 race before even the Iowa caucuses started, to seeing her on stage saying, you know, "I'll accept your nomination" and everyone on their feet here in the hall? 
 
SIMON: She's worked for this. And her loyalty and love for our president, Joe Biden, their partnership, the ways in which she's grown as a leader, an international leader. She's ready. She is ready. 
 
And the woman that I know, I'm so happy that the American public, they're learning who we know. She comes early, and she leaves late. She reads everything. She is the child of academics, meaning that she wants the truth. She's a data-driven person. 
 
We're going to have somebody who not only loves us but is going to work so hard to make sure that we're good. 
 
COLLINS: Lateefah Simon, thank you so much for sticking around.
 
SIMON: Thank you so much.
 
COLLINS: Braving the balloons with us to --
 
SIMON: I love the balloons.
 
COLLINS: -- to talk about your friend, Kamala Harris. 
 
SIMON: Thank you.
 
COLLINS: It's great to have you. 
 
SIMON: Thank you so much.
 
COLLINS: Anderson, back to you. 
 
COOPER: Kaitlan, thanks.
 
One of the primetime speakers tonight was a Republican, former congressman and former January 6th Select Committee member, Adam Kinzinger. He made an appeal to members of the GOP to make the right choice between Donald Trump and the preservation of democracy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ADAM KINZINGER (R), FORMER CONGRESSMAN: Democracy knows no party. It's a -- it's a living, breathing ideal that defines us as a nation. It's the bedrock that separates us from tyranny. And when that foundation is fractured, we must all stand together, united, to strengthen it. 
 
If you think those principles are worth defending, I urge you: make the right choice. Vote -- vote for our bedrock values and vote for Kamala Harris. God bless you. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COOPER: And former Congressman Adam Kinzinger is with us now. He's a -- senior CNN political commentator.
 
For other Republicans, independents, people on the fence who are undecided who were -- who were out there in the television audience listening, what you think the impact of her speech is tonight? 
 
KINZINGER: Look, I thought her speech was good. Here's -- actually really good. But here's what I thought was interesting, is Donald Trump has ceded so much ground that used to be traditionally Republican ground. 
 
So, let's talk about national defense. Ukraine. This is all stuff Donald Trump should have been talking about at his convention if he was a little more of a traditional Republican. 
 
Kamala came in and took that ground. I mean, she wasn't scared to do kind of the -- we don't want to get too -- She took the ground on immigration. She reminded people that he tanked the immigration bill. She took the ground on Ukraine.
 
And I think, if you're an undecided Republican out there, you look, and you're, like, It's going to be tough for me to not vote for Kamala now, because she literally gave me the things that I was concerned about. 
 
COOPER: In terms of the border, obviously, that has been the thing that a lot of Donald Trump supporters believe is her biggest weakness. Do you think she did enough on it? I mean, she said she would, you know, bring back the bipartisan border deal that Donald Trump encouraged all the Republicans to kill, and that she would sign it. 
 
KINZINGER: I think it depends who the audience is. Look, she's never going to appear as hawkish as Donald Trump, because he's made that his whole thing. 
 
But if you were concerned about Kamala Harris and the border, and you're like, boy, she's just going to open it up and, you know, let anybody come in here, I think she did a lot to alleviate that concern. 
 
And it became, No, look, I'm going to -- I'm going to put some strength in the border there. And -- and I think it gave people some breathing room. 
 
And again, it goes after Donald Trump for -- very importantly, for having tanked a very serious bill on the border, one that James Lankford created and was endorsed by the Border Patrol. 
 
COOPER: Yes. 
 
DAVID AXELROD, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Adam, you -- this was hard. I mean, it may not have been hard -- it was not a hard choice for you, but you've taken a lot --
 
KINZINGER: Yes.
 
AXELROD: -- of guff, let's say, for purposes of the wholesome audience we have, for making the decision you made. 
 
You have a lot of colleagues who you served with and a lot of friends in the Republican Party who share your views. Why is it -- what is it that binds them still to Trump? 
 
KINZINGER: Well, because -- specifically, people that were in elected office, the second you make a decision to go outside of the party, you've basically killed your chance at elected office again. And every politician loves to think that they're somehow going to be -- you know, make this grand return into elected office. 
 
And the other thing is the first time you actually turn against your party or, in this case, turn against Donald Trump, who has basically owned the party, that's the hardest, the first time. 
 
After that, you recognize, like, OK, this is actually not as scary and hard as I thought it would be. 
 
But it's whole thing -- look, especially if you're in politics, it becomes your identity. You and I were talking about this. Like, this becomes your identity. And the idea of giving up your identity, it's really tough to do. 
 <br>[00:10:08]
 
VAN JONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: But I do think you deserve a lot of credit. 
 
KINZINGER: Thanks. 
 
JONES: A lot of people criticize Republicans for not doing what you've done. But you know, we don't criticize our own either, often, on the Democratic side.
 
And what happens is when you do criticize your own party, your phone is your enemy. Because you'll have -- four years ago today, you'll see a whole bunch of people you used to be friends with that are not friends now.
 
KINZINGER: Yes.
 
JONES: And so, you deal with that more than anybody I know and yet, you still stood up there, and you -- I think you showed real courage and leadership. 
 
KINZINGER: Thanks.
 
JONES: And I think the country owes you a big -- not just the Democratic Party, but anyone trying to raise a kid. You're an example of what integrity looks like. 
 
KINZINGER: That's nice. That's nice.
 
COOPER: What do you think Kamala Harris and Tim Walz have to do now, moving forward? 
 
KINZINGER: Look, I think it's continue with this message, honestly. I mean, I think Tim Walz has been a great addition to be kind of this Midwestern regular dude. Right?
 
I mean, he -- like, for me, as a guy from Illinois, this is the kind of guy, like, I relate to. He can get -- I mean, who's seen a vice- presidential candidate draw the crowds he has? This is incredible. 
 
I mean, J.D. Vance has shown up, and there's 30 people. This guy is filling a stadium.
 
So I think keep doing that. And she needs to keep -- look, be true to your Democratic values. I don't think any of us are asking for her to become a Republican. Stay true to that.
 
But on the areas where you can find common cause with Republicans, continue to talk about that. I do think 15 to 20 percent of Republicans is a reasonable goal to get, and that would put her way over the top, by the way, if she does do that. 
 
AUDIE CORNISH, CNN ANCHOR: There remains this gap, gender gap people have talked about a lot. Also, we know with low-propensity white male voters, that's not been, obviously, an area of growth for Democrats. 
 
But can it harm her? What sense do you have about the hill or obstacle to climb with men, with white men? 
 
KINZINGER: Look, I think there was a time where the left was talking a lot about things like toxic masculinity. And they were overusing that. Any time a man was a man, it was like, that's toxic masculinity. And I think that really hurt the left. 
 
We didn't see a lot of that here. You know, I think the whole woke thing of the Democrats was not on display here, which was noticeable. That's how you win back middle America. 
 
Again, it's not saying change your values and become something you're not. But it's saying, look. Look at where the voters are. And if you want to win elections, you have to go where the voters are. 
 
So, I think they made a good step in that. 
 
It's also important for Republicans to wake up and say having some emotions, especially if you're a kid and your dad was out there, speaking as vice president --
 
AXELROD: Yes.
 
KINZINGER: -- is actually something we should honor.
 
JONES: Yes, we should.
 
KINZINGER: Especially if you claim you're family values. I am just -- it was despicable to see what they said about Gus, you know, Walz this week. And it's going to hurt them, I think. I hope. 
 
JONES: Yes, look, I mean, for me, that was the most powerful thing. Look, I -- I've got three boys. And, you know, even just saying their names, I get choked up. 
 
KINZINGER: Yes.
 
JONES: And if they're -- if they're ever proud of me, or they ever liked me, or if they ever stopped laughing at my dance moves, or do anything at all positive towards me, it's the most meaningful thing. And for that child to be able to do that, everybody should get around that father and son bond. And yet, people were making fun of it. It's wrong. 
 
KINZINGER: Cruelty has become the point for some Republicans -- not all of them -- and it's gone too far. 
 
And look, masculinity is not about being a jerk on the Internet. It's not about tweeting in all caps. It's not about -- you know, it's about, like, defending -- as I mentioned up there, defending families, defending values. That's what true masculinity is, is standing for those that need somebody to stand for them. 
 
COOPER: Congressman Kinzinger, thanks very much. 
 
KINZINGER: Of course. Yes.
 
COOPER: Appreciate it. Thanks. 
 
Jake, back to you.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Thanks, Anderson.
 
So, one of the things -- there were a few policy issues that we heard from -- from Vice President Harris this evening. One of the ones that was really interesting had to do with her contrasting herself with Donald Trump when it came to autocrats and dictators. And let's run some of that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: I will not cozy up to tyrants and dictators like Kim Jong-un, who are rooting for Trump. Who are rooting for Trump. Because you know, they know -- they know he is easy to manipulate with flattery and favors.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) TAPPER: There are people who served with Donald Trump in Donald
 
 Trump's White House who agree with that assessment, even people who aren't necessarily supporting Kamala Harris. People who say that he has been susceptible, Abby Phillip and Dana Bash, to the praise and manipulations of people like an extraordinarily crafty and evil former KGB operative named Vladimir Putin. 
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN ANCHOR: Yes. Vladimir Putin, Kim Jong-un, Xi Jinping, who you know, you can describe as an adversary or a rival, however you want to describe it. 
 
I mean, I think Trump's record is there. 
 
When I -- when I listened to that, you could tell that it came from really deep within her. She was very convicted in that moment. 
 <br>[00:15:03] 
 
And I thought that whole section of the speech was probably one of the strongest parts of the speech for her. She was incredibly forceful. And she addressed, head on, some key issues.
 
I think some of what we're seeing tonight from her on foreign policy is a lot the work that she's been doing for three and a half years. 
 
Vice [SIC] President Biden basically sent her out to the Munich Security Conference, to all of these different global confabs and said she's the representative. And she's been studying this stuff.
 
And I think that one of the tasks today was to take someone who spent, basically, two years as a United States senator and say to the American people, she's ready to be commander-in-chief. That's why we have a whole part of the program tonight that was focused on that. 
 
And I thought it was really effective. 
 
The other part that I thought was really effective was taking on the Israel-Gaza conflict, which has really --
 
TAPPER: Yes.
 
PHILLIP: -- kind of torn this convention apart quietly, honestly. But -- but it's simmering in this convention. 
 
TAPPER: I don't know just -- I don't know if it tore it apart. It certainly caused some issues. 
 
PHILLIP: Look, I think that are -- there were not very many things that were disagreements at this convention. That was one of them.
 
There were protesters outside who were doing a sit-in. There were complaints that they were not on the podium. You had people like AOC saying they should be on the podium giving a speech. 
 
She took the issue on very forcefully, I thought, and didn't shy away from it in any way. She was strong in her defense of Israel, but she gave a lengthy -- a lengthy plea to see the Palestinian people and their right to live alongside Israeli people, as well. 
 
TAPPER: And a key -- and the key note there also, just to -- just to -- and obviously, Dana, you jump in. But one of the things she said, in addition to a safe and secure Israel, she called Hamas a terrorist group and all that. 
 
She also said that the Palestinian people deserve dignity, security, freedom, and self-determination. 
 
PHILLIP: Yes.
 
TAPPER: Self-determination, which for people who aren't, you know, steeped in this conflict, that means self-rule. And that is an issue that Netanyahu is not in favor of.
 
In fact, very few Israeli leaders, even the rivals of Netanyahu, don't think a Palestinian state is in the cards. 
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, and I think that -- yes, I think simmering was -- was the way to describe what was going on here. 
 
We did think it could've torn apart this convention. 
 
TAPPER: Oh, we thought it was going to be Chicago '68.
 
BASH: And I -- and I think, now that it's over, we can say that the protests, the -- you were talking to Governor Pritzker. I watched it earlier -- was that today? Today.
 
TAPPER: It was today, and thank you for watching. 
 
BASH: Always, Jake.
 
TAPPER: I appreciate it.
 
PHILLIP: Loyal viewer Dana Bash right here.
 
BASH: The -- and the fact that there weren't those -- these mass protests. 
 
The idea that they didn't get a speaking slot, the name of the movement is Uncommitted. 
 
TAPPER: Right.
 
BASH: This is a political party in which it is rare, not -- not out of the question. It's not like it hasn't happened before.
 
PHILLIP: Yes.
 
BASH: But it's rare that you give a speaking slot to somebody who is -- whose name is Uncommitted. 
 
TAPPER: Has it ever happened before?
 
BASH: Not committed to you. Well, I mean, like, Ted Cruz spoke, and he had -- in the Republican convention in 2016. And he wasn't, like, totally committed to Donald Trump at the time. I mean, I just can't think.
 
But I guess the point I want to make is not that. The one I want to make is that the way that she handled these two issues, which -- which is quicksand, political quicksand and has been for Joe Biden -- was the most deftly handled that we have seen from a Democratic politician so far, hands down. 
 
TAPPER: On the subject of quicksand, I'll just say, as a child, I was under the impression that quicksand was just everywhere. And Gen X, you kind of were raised to believe that quicksand was -- I've never seen any quicksand in my life. 
 
Anyway, coming up next, how Vice President Harris's speech played in the crucial battleground of Pennsylvania. CNN is there in that lovely Keystone State, talking to undecided voters. Are any of them decided now? 
 
Hi, there, Pennsylvanians! Good to see you. We're going to talk to them next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:23:04]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: We were underestimated at practically every turn. But we never gave up. Because the future is always worth fighting for. And that's the fight we are in right now: a fight for America's future. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COOPER: Democratic presidential nominee Kamala Harris, portraying herself as an underdog candidate and a fighter. She addressed her party's convention on this closing night here in Chicago. 
 
Right now, we're getting reaction to the vice president's speech from some undecided voters in the crucial battleground of Pennsylvania. 
 
CNN's Gary Tuchman is in Allentown. So, Gary, who's with you, and what are they saying about the speech?
 
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anderson, we do come to from Allentown in the heart of the beautiful Lehigh Valley in Eastern Pennsylvania.
 
And we are with eight residents of the Lehigh Valley, who have been watching television with us tonight and watching Kamala Harris's speech. 
 
I do want to say, they all have something in common, as you said, Anderson. None of these people before tonight have made a decision about who they will vote for in November. And at least one person here, before tonight, wasn't sure she was going to vote at all, because she doesn't like either of the candidates. 
 
Also, what they have in common: five of these people, they're all five of them loyal union members from the UAW local, United Auto Workers here in the Lehigh Valley. 
 
So, thank you all for being here. The first thing I want to ask you, I want you to grade the speech. OK? "A" is excellent, "B" above average, "C" average, "D" below average. We all know what "F" is. 
 
Let's start with you. How do you grade the speech? 
 
SCOTT, LOCAL UAW PRESIDENT: I gave her a "B+." 
 
LINDSAY (ph), UNDECIDED VOTER: "B."
 
ANDY, UNDECIDED VOTER: "B+." 
 
DONNA, UNDECIDED VOTER: "A." 
 
PATRICK, UNDECIDED VOTER: "B+." 
 
SEAN (ph), UNDECIDED VOTER: "A."
 
SABRINA, UNDECIDED VOTER: "A." 
 
BRIAN (ph), UNDECIDED VOTER: "C." 
 
TUCHMAN: "C." So mostly "A's" and "B's," with one "C." I want to ask we made the decision you made.
 
First of, we start with Scott, who is the president of the UAW local here in the Lehigh Valley. Scott, what grade did you give it again? "B+."
 <br>[00:25:02]
 
SCOTT: "B+."
 
TUCHMAN: How come?
 
SCOTT: I gave her the high grade, because I thought she looked very confident. I liked how she spoke from her heart. I liked her message of unity; end the division that we have in America. I like her fight for the middle class and families. 
 
The reason I didn't give her an "A" was I thought she needed to go into a little more detail in some of her plans.
 
TUCHMAN: OK.
 
SCOTT: Of how she would, you know, do some of the things that she envisions.
 
TUCHMAN: OK, Lindsay (ph), you're in sales. You're the person who wasn't sure she was going to vote for anybody, because you don't like either of these two candidates. I'll ask you more about that in a minute. But first, what grade did you give the speech? 
 
LINDSAY (ph): I gave it a "B."
 
TUCHMAN: How come?
 
LINDSAY (ph): I thought it was a good speech. I mean, she did what she was supposed to do. I liked that she was -- talked about her upbringing, made it feel a little more, like, personal. But yes, I thought it was a good speech. 
 
FOREMAN: OK. Andy, you're also with the UAW, make cars and trucks for us Americans, so thank you for that, along with the rest of you. Your grade again was? 
 
ANDY: "B+."
 
TUCHMAN: How come "B+"?
 
ANDY: I liked her plan for the middle class. Like, my wife's a nurse. I'm an autoworker. I'm as middle class as you can get. I just felt like she should go a little more in-depth. But I understand you can't really go as in-depth in these speeches, but a little bit more would've been nice. 
 
FOREMAN: OK. Donna is your mother.
 
DONNA: Yes.
 
FOREMAN: Donna's a retired dental hygienist. Donna, what grade did you give it again? 
 
DONNA: I gave her an "A." 
 
TUCHMAN: And how come an "A"?
 
DONNA: Because she hit all the points that I wanted to know about. I wanted to know more about her, her economic policies, her foreign policy. I know she couldn't go into depth about that, but I mean, I felt that she looked very presidential. She sounded presidential, and I think she's going to be a unifier. 
 
TUCHMAN: By the way, going into tonight, Andy was 60-40 with Kamala Harris. 
 
ANDY: Yes.
 
TUCHMAN: You were 50-50, which is interesting. We'll talk more about that in a second.
 
Patrick also with the UAW. The grade you gave it again?
 
PATRICK: A "B+." 
 
TUCHMAN: How come "B+?
 
PATRICK: Well, she was very confident and what she was saying, she showed leadership ability and understanding of the topics at hand.
 
But again, she didn't go in depth. I did like what she said about she's going to try to do for the middle class, about a tax break for us, which will be very nice. But still, a little bit more information on some of the things that she planned on doing. 
 
TUCHMAN: Sean (ph), also with the UAW. The grade you gave it again?
 
SEAN (ph): I gave her an "A."
 
TUCHMAN: How come?
 
SEAN (ph): I was looking for policy information. I really wanted to see some substantive policy information, and I thought she did give enough. I like what she gave on military, what she wants to do for our veterans, and with border control. I just think that she has a lot of good ideas, and she's very well-spoken. I think she was very professional.
 
TUCHMAN: Sabrina is your daughter and also a UAW member, helping to make cars and trucks for America. Your grade again? 
 
SABRINA: "A." 
 
TUCHMAN: How come an "A"?
 
SABRINA: I think she was very well-spoken. She was very clear on what her policies were and elaborated on them with the time given. And the fact that she's -- wants to bring back rights for women. 
 
TUCHMAN: And Brian (ph), you're -- you're in real estate. You're a nice guy, too, like everyone on this panel. You gave the only "C." How come you gave a "C"? 
 
BRIAN (ph): She wasn't clear enough on her -- on the policies. She did speak a lot of her personal history -- on her personal history, which was great. But I -- I still don't feel like she's ready. I feel like, more so, she should wait. I don't want to personally vote for someone that is a backup. 
 
TUCHMAN: All right. Well, I'm going to ask you shortly. You're obviously not ready to vote for Kamala Harris. 
 
BRIAN (ph): Right.
 
TUCHMAN: I'm sure about that. 
 
BRIAN (ph): Right.
 
TUCHMAN: But what I want to ask all of you all together at this point. Like I said, none of you were ready to make a commitment to any candidate in November. 
 
Please raise your hand right now if you're now ready to make a commitment after today. Wow. I'm kind of surprised by that. We haven't rehearsed this. I'm going to make that very clear. Seven of you are now ready. Scott. 
 
SCOTT: Yes. I'm going to vote for Kamala Harris. 
 
TUCHMAN: Andy.
 
ANDY: Yes. Kamala Harris, yes.
 
TUCHMAN: Donna.
 
DONNA: Yes, I'm voting for her also. 
 
TUCHMAN: Sean (ph). Sean (ph).
 
SEAN (ph): Yes. I'm Kamala.
 
TUCHMAN: Sabrina.
 
SABINA: Kamala.
 
TUCHMAN: Patrick.
 
PATRICK: Kamala.
 
TUCHMAN: Brian (ph). 
 
BRIAN (ph): Trump. 
 
TUCHMAN: Trump. And finally, Lindsay (ph).
 
LINDSAY (ph): Still probably not voting. 
 
TUCHMAN: To the point you don't like either of them. 
 
LINDSAY (ph): Nope.
 
TUCHMAN: OK. What led to you all making the decision? Was it that decisive of an evening? Scott.
 
SCOTT: Yes, I -- I really -- as I said before, I really liked her confidence. She really seemed presidential. She seemed very confident. Like I said, she spoke from her heart. I like how she filled you in on her background, that she struggled, her mother struggled.
 <br>[00:30:03]
 
TUCHMAN: All right.
 
SCOTT: A middle-class family. 
 
TUCHMAN: Donna, you were 50-50 going into the evening. What made you make a decision? 
 
DONNA: Well, I -- I've been doing research since she was, you know, the nominee. And I like what I'm reading. And here -- I've been watching the convention, and her speech was just -- you know, that just sold me. TUCHMAN: And Brian (ph), you decided on Trump. What about tonight,
 
 because when we met last week, you were undecided. 
 
BRIAN (ph): I'm decided.
 
TUCHMAN: What about tonight made you decide you were going to vote for Trump? 
 
BRIAN (ph): You know, her -- her speech was great. I like how she went into her personal history, again. It was just not moving for me. 
 
TUCHMAN: But it made you think that Trump's a better candidate than her? 
 
BRIAN (ph): He -- he's here for it. He's a little bit more aggressive. She's aggressive in her way, but I think she will be aggressive in the next term. 
 
TUCHMAN: So Trump over Harris for you. Harris over Trump for most of you. 
 
What I will tell you: 75 days now until election day. So, Lindsay (ph), you have a few more nights to sleep on it. 
 
Thank you all for coming and joining us. We appreciate it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
 
TUCHMAN: Anderson, back to you. 
 
COOPER: Gary Tuchman, thanks. That was fascinating. 
 
CORNISH: It was fascinating because, instead of talking about the Trump curious we often talk about, we have Kamala curious. There are some people who still want to know more. They're not all the way there. And I think, you know, that that is going to be an interesting dynamic in some of these battleground states where there are still swing districts. 
 
I don't necessarily believe we can have wild swings the way we used to, given gerrymandering, et cetera. But there are people who want to know more. 
 
AXELROD: You know, one of the things that was said -- there's no doubt about that, that you know, one of the disadvantages she has -- you know, and Scott's talked about it a lot -- is she's the vice president. So, what did she do as vice president? 
 
The advantage she has is people don't know a lot. And they're getting new information. And that new information, certainly, the way she told her story tonight, the way she shared her views, was I think important. 
 
The two things that I want to mention is, I think that the line that probably tested best in this whole speech was "I will be a president for the whole country." Because that's such a contrast with the way Trump presents himself. 
 
And the whole end of the speech was a paeon to America and basically going after the idea of denigrating the country, which has been so part and parcel of Trump's attacks. 
 
I think people like to think of America --
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
AXELROD: -- as a positive place. And that was the tenor of the end of her speech I think it was powerful. 
 
COOPER: I also want to bring in John King. 
 
John, just in terms of, you know, moving forward, I mean, tomorrow you've got RFK Jr. probably dropping out, perhaps endorsing Trump. Talk about what's ahead.
 
JOHN KING, CNN ANCHOR/CORRESPONDENT: So, the conventions are over. What is the next phase of the campaign? The next huge night for both Trump and Harris will be that debate on September 10. 
 
But let's look at where we are. Consider this sort of a bench line, benchmark. Where we came into the convention. And then watch where we are in the polling a week from now, two weeks now and when we get to that debate. 
 
First, let's just start where Gary just was, Allentown, Pennsylvania, Lehigh County, as he mentioned: 53-46 when you round out, last election. Right? So, Kamala Harris needs to win Lehigh County, and she needs to win it by a margin roughly around there if she wants to carry the commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 
 
Was what we just heard there -- that was anecdotal, right? Eight people in a room. Was that what the country's going to do after tonight? That is the question. Is it anything like that after this?
 
So, let's just look at a couple of benchmarks. This was a "New York Times"/Siena poll in the battle -- sun -- this is the Sun Belt battleground states. It's not the whole country. Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, North Carolina. But what type of change will you bring?
 
I'm telling you, from my travels, the country wants change. Democrats and Republicans, they want something different. Forty to 36, good change versus bad change. Not bad but not great. 
 
Even, Donald Trump: 44, 44.
 
A week or two from now, three weeks from now, after the debate, is that number better for Kamala Harris? That's the challenge. I'm the agent of change, the preferred agent of change that you want. 
 
One more to look at as we go, and again, this is coming into the convention. All right. And so, what does it look like after the American people heard her, heard the other guests here tonight? Donald Trump right now, in these critical Sun Belt battleground
 
 states, viewed more favorably by a dozen points on the economy. Did what voters heard from Harris tonight change these numbers? Absolutely essential. She's in a good position now. To be in a great commanding position, she has to improve that. 
 
She had the lead on abortion rights. Absolutely critical in the suburbs with women voters and other progressive voters to keep the base excited. She had it coming in. Can she stretch it? That would play into the gender gap and with suburban voters.
 
And here again, down by almost 10 points there on the issue of immigration. Right? And so, nine points there. Can she improve that number? 
 
The immigration and the economy are the weaknesses when you look at the map. 
 
I can tell you, though, Democrats are leaving this hall excited. But as M.J. Lee was reporting, everybody inside the Harris campaign says, Let's not tamp that excitement down, but let's have a realistic, pragmatic look that we've got 75 days of a very tough fight. 
 <br>[00:35:10]
 
COOPER: Yes. And it's likely going to be a very close race -- Scott. 
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes. I -- John, the issue of change, I think you're exactly right. People do want change. And I think this is her great challenge, is how do you change when you're already in there? 
 
And one thing I did not hear in her speech tonight was really an ounce of humility about any of the failures of the current administration. 
 
I mean, the polling is pretty clear. They're down on a lot of the big issues that people really care about. I'm wondering what you think about that. 
 
In order to get away from Biden, would it be better to show a little humility and say, Hey, we tried some things. I cast some votes. I've learned from my mistakes? Or is it better to ignore it and hope people forget about it? What's your opinion? 
 
KING: Well, here's a question. I don't have opinions. I don't have opinions. I'm very careful about that.
 
But she had choices. Does she deal with that now on this stage with this first big moment with the American people? She chose not to. 
 
She will have to deal with it when Donald Trump is standing next to her on the debate stage and Donald Trump is saying you're a part of Biden this. You're part of Biden that. You are part of Biden this.
 
You're right. This is the president's job approval rating. If he were the incumbent, 56 disapproval is a horrible number to win reelection. He's not anymore, but she is his vice president. So, you're right that that will be an issue. The Republicans are going to try to give her, quote unquote, "Biden baggage." And she's going to have to have answers for it if she wants to win the election. 
 
But her argument, clearly, they decided we're not going to deal with that tonight, but that will come up at the debate. 
 
JONES: I'm sorry. David. Go ahead.
 
AXELROD: No. John, you've been traveling all over this country. You've been talking to these voters. Do you think the way she presented herself, and particularly the way she talked about, first, the economy and some of these other issues -- immigration and national security -- do you think what -- those themes are resonant with the voters you were talking to? 
 
KING: She talked about the issues they raised. She talked about some of the things they said they had questions about. A lot of them said she's the vice president. I don't know a lot. That happens to every vice president, at least in my 40 years of doing this, to every vice president. Yes, that's the case.
 
Before I go, I want to make one point about Democrats leaving optimists. I don't say this to be critical of Vice President Harris. The Democrats had a usually successful convention. 
 
But this is why inside her campaign they're saying ride this momentum but be careful about it. She will have momentum coming out of this. There's no doubt about that. How much, in these polarized times? We don't know.
 
But this was my first campaign, 1988. Michael Dukakis only won 10 states. He left his convention 17 points up in the national polls. Seventeen points up, and then he lost 40 states. 
 
Seventy-five days is a lot of time. 
 
COOPER: All right. John, thank you.
 
We'll be back with much more reaction to the vice president's speech as we look ahead to the next phase of this historic campaign. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:41:46]
 
TAPPER: Vice President Kamala Harris just delivered the most important speech of her career. She accepted the Democratic Party's -- Party's nomination for president of the United States. 
 
Let's go back to CNN's Kaitlan Collins on the increasingly empty convention floor. Kaitlan. 
 
COLLINS: Increasingly empty. Still a lot of balloons here, Jake. And I'm here with two people who know Vice President Harris well: Congresswoman Jasmine Crockett of Texas, and also Ashley -- our own Ashley Allison, who worked with her as her coalitions director in 2020 with President Biden. 
 
Great to have you both here. What did you make of Vice President Harris's speech when you were listening to it? 
 
REP. JASMINE CROCKETT (D-TX): I thought was excellent. I mean, she exuded the confidence that the American people, and frankly, the world needed to see to know that, yes, she is woman, but yes, hear her roar. And roar she did.
 
She made it clear that she also has a vision, a vision that is one where the middle class will absolutely be able to realize the American dream.
 
And I thought that she also just wove in her story so well to basically say, I am the American dream standing in front of you. And letting everyone know that it is possible here, despite all of the ugliness that we see going around. This is someone who believes in who we are in this country, and she will fight for that. 
 
COLLINS: Ashley, what did you think?
 
ASHLEY ALLISON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: So I'm going to talk about it from a political perspective. I was sitting in the seat, thinking about the voters who don't know her yet or don't know her story, as well, and how they probably interpreted it. 
 
And if I had never heard her speak before and heard that speech tonight, I would wonder what country she was leading because she spoke like a boss. 
 
She talked about not just America in isolation. But she talked about it in terms of how we can lead on the globe, how we know that there are conflicts going around all over the world. 
 
She didn't shy from them. She took them head on. The tough ones like Israel and Gaza that are tenuous in our coalition right now. And that's what leaders do. 
 
And then, she drew the contrast, and she was like, this is who Donald Trump is, and this is who I am. And she did it through her story of self, which we learn as organizers. And I thought it was awesome. 
 
COLLINS: Ashley Allison, Congresswoman, thank you for stopping by. We were a late snag, so thank you for stopping here.  That's the benefit of being on floor, Jake. You can just grab lawmakers and -- and try to do interviews with them.
 
TAPPER: It's cool that you guys all coordinated your outfits. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. We're all in white. Jake said it's cool that we coordinated our outfits.
 
TAPPER: CNN's Jeff Zeleny.
 
COLLINS: They did. Here I was.
 
TAPPER: Jeff Zeleny is getting some new information for us. Jeff, what are you learning? 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Jake, just a short time ago, Vice President Harris was addressing some donors and supporters right here in the convention hall before leaving for her hotel in Chicago. And she thanked her donors. 
 
But her husband, Doug Emhoff, said, We haven't won anything yet. And I am told that that is the mindset going into the next 74 days of this campaign. 
 
If you look ahead at what is next for the Harris campaign, she'll be back out on the road after catching her breath a bit after this. 
 
But that debate, that first debate with the former president is just 19 days away in Philadelphia. So, she has already been doing debate preparation. 
 
She was at Howard University just a couple weeks ago beginning the debate preparations. We know that her debate team is in place. Philippe Reines is playing the role of the former president, like he did in 2016 for Hillary Clinton.
 
But Jake, as we end this convention time here, talking to Democrats, it is that 2016 race that infuses the Harris's campaign thinking going forward here: to not repeat the mistakes of 2016; not believe that they have this won. 
 <br>[00:45:08]
 
Yes, the enthusiasm is a good thing, but they know that they have work to do. So, she'll be back on the road.
 
The question: will she do an interview before that debate on September 10? Her advisors say she likely will -- Jake. 
 
TAPPER: So much. You know, one of the issues that the Democrats hope will really help them, Abby and Dana, in the election -- not only because of what happened at the U.S. Supreme Court but also because of ballot initiatives across the country -- is reproductive rights, or abortion. 
 
And Vice President Harris, who has really, I think it's fair to say, found her voice for any administration and the Biden administration on this issue ever since the overturning of Roe v Wade, made a big issue out of it tonight, as well. Here is part of that excerpt of the speech. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: And get this. Get this. He plans to create a national anti- abortion coordinator and force states to report on women's miscarriages and abortions. Simply put, they are out of their minds. 
 
And one must ask -- one must ask, why exactly is it that they don't trust women? Well, we trust women. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAPPER: So interesting framing of the issue there, obviously, trying to boost her numbers, particularly with women voters but also with individuals who agree with her on the issues. 
 
BASH: Yes. Obviously, when she's talking about the fact that we trust women, she's talking overtly about women and their reproductive systems and health care and so forth. 
 
Listening to it a second time just then, it -- I was thinking about our conversation earlier, about the fact that she didn't lean into the fact that she was a woman. And we trust women was also, I was thinking, well, people should trust me. And it was maybe one of the very veiled references to her gender, as well. 
 
PHILLIP: Yes. I mean, I think that's right. And also, remember,  leading up to all of this, I mean, if you were watching -- maybe a lot
 
 of people weren't -- but there were a lot of stories about her work as a D.A., fighting for the survivors of -- of sexual abuse and prosecuting their abusers and all of that. 
 
And I think that this is part of the biography piece that fits in with the policy piece that works for Democrats in this election. 
 
She also, I noted, in the speech tonight, she was very clear. She -- she called Trump out for his -- you know, the case with E. Jean Carroll where he was found liable for rape. 
 
She was very forceful in the description of Trump's convictions and liability on those fronts. 
 
So, I think all of those things are very much connected, where what she's trying to say is that, you know, Trump himself has both -- you know, the Project 2025 stuff, what she was saying there, I think, was very linked to Project 2025. So, you can say about that what you will.
 
But she's presenting it as Trump's plan; presenting him as an unreliable leader on these issues and the Democratic Party in complete contrast to all of that. 
 
TAPPER: They're definitely -- the Democrats are definitely hoping to get the turnout based on this issue quite a bit, especially in places like Montana, where they are getting a referendum on the state ballot; hoping to drive out turnout; hoping that will help Democrats not just -- well, I don't think they have any hopes of -- any aspirations of winning Montana for Kamala Harris. But hoping Jon Tester, the incumbent Democratic senator --
 
PHILLIP: And in Florida and in other places.
 
TAPPER: In Florida and other places, as well.
 
Coming up, a fact check of tonight's speeches as our convention coverage continues. Stay with us. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:53:06]
 
TAPPER: An historic night here in Chicago. Vice President Kamala Harris capping the Democratic National Convention with a truly historic acceptance speech. 
 
Let's bring in CNN senior reporter Daniel Dale for a fact check of her remarks. Daniel, what did you find? 
 
DANIEL DALE, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Jake, there weren't a lot of fact-checkable claims tonight, period. But let's look at some comments Vice President Harris made in her big speech. First, this claim about former President Donald Trump and abortion. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS: As a part of his agenda, he and his allies would limit access to birth control, ban medication abortion, and enact a nationwide abortion ban, with or without Congress.
 
And get this. Get this. He plans to create a national anti-abortion coordinator and force states to report on women's miscarriages and abortions. Simply put, they are out of their minds. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DALE: This is kind of cleverly framed, Jake, as a prediction, which I cannot definitively fact check. But V.P. Harris at least left out some important context here. 
 
What she did not explain is that Trump has either not taken those positions during this campaign or explicitly rejected those positions. He has not called for an anti-abortion coordinator. He hasn't called for states to report miscarriages and abortions. He has explicitly said he will not restrict birth control. He has not taken a clear position on abortion medication. 
 
He has said he will not sign a national abortion ban. And has, at least, haltingly said he won't enforce an old law called the Comstock Act to ban abortion without Congress. 
 
So where is the vice president getting this stuff? Well, almost all of it is in Project 2025, a conservative think tank's list of policy proposals for a next Trump term. 
 <br>[00:55:00]
 
It's true, of course, that dozens of former Trump officials were involved in Project 2025, but it is not Trump's own document. 
 
Now let's play something Vice President Harris said about the Supreme Court's recent decision on presidential immunity. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HARRIS: Consider -- consider the power he will have, especially after the United States Supreme Court just ruled that he would be immune from criminal prosecution. Just imagine Donald Trump with no guard rails. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)         
 
DALE: I call -- I call this a "needs context," too, Jake. It's fair for Vice President Harris to generally warn that the Supreme Court ruling gave presidents more power.
 
But it did not grant Trump or anyone else total immunity from criminal prosecution. What the court did say is that they have absolute immunity for acts within their core constitutional powers; presumptive immunity for other so-called official acts. But also ruled there is no immunity for unofficial acts.
 
And so, Trump can theoretically be prosecuted as president, after a future presidency, and in fact, is still being prosecuted right now, of course. The court hampered but did not kill that federal election subversion case that's still ongoing against him -- Jake.
 
TAPPER: All right. Daniel Dale, thanks so much.
 
The Democratic convention is history, and now the sprint to election begins, with the Trump-Harris debate just a little over two weeks away. We're following it all on CNN.
 
Laura Coates picks up our coverage after this quick break. Thanks for watching.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)