Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Interview With Erwin, Tennessee, Mayor Glenn White; Justice Department Battles Foreign Election Interference; Conviction of Menendez Brothers Under Review. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired October 04, 2024 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:02]
 
BETH SANNER, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST:  Yes, so a month ago -- this comes almost exactly a month ago, where the Department of Justice swept up this thing called Doppelganger, which means two faces. 
 
And, in that operation, they were setting up things like fake CNN sites, fake "Washington Post" sites, fake FOX News sites, and also using influencers, Americans who were unwitting, to put out their propaganda and to make things look more authentic. 
 
And so this is the problem that Americans have, is that it's really hard for Americans to be able to see the difference between what is real and coming from a trusted source and what is being put out by the Russian government. And the Iranians do the same thing. 
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN HOST:  So -- and I want to talk about the Iranians in just a second, but in terms of comparison, what we're seeing now from the Russians compared to 2020, how does it stack up? 
 
SANNER:  So, in 2020, the Russians really did start this whole idea of trying to infiltrate our system and use Americans to put out their message. 
 
Now they are expanding that in order to look like Americans and use Americans. And so we are seeing a lot more sophistication and certainly is being aided by A.I., in that they can create more authentic-looking sites. And when they phish someone like you, they can research you and figure out messages that will make you think that you know or are somehow acquainted with this person who is e-mailing you. 
 
BROWN:  And what about other countries that are also interfering, like Iran and the different objectives there? 
 
SANNER:  Yes. Yes. 
 
So, it's so interesting because Russia and China, we see this whole thing right now where we talk a lot about Russia and China and Iran and North Korea all being in the same group. But, in fact, in this election, Iran absolutely wants to defeat Donald Trump. 
 
I mean, they are trying to influence Americans to vote against Donald Trump, just like they did in 2020. And the Russians are continuing, just like in 2016, to undermine the Democratic Party candidate and preferring Donald Trump. 
 
So that juxtaposition is kind of interesting. So you have two kind of things working together, but at cross-purposes. Russia is still the most sophisticated and the most active of all of the parties. Iran is less sophisticated, but they are more aggressive and more daring.
 
And they don't care at all about whether they get caught. The Chinese are involved, but they tend to be involved more at the state and local level and then really big picture, like putting out A.I. advertisements or out on social media these images that make people in the United States and other countries think that our democracy isn't working and that we are the source of all problems in the world. 
 
BROWN:  Really important information. 
 
Beth Sanner, thank you so much. 
 
SANNER:  Thank you. 
 
BROWN:  Still ahead on this Friday:  It was the case that captured the nation's attention 35 years ago. Why prosecutors are now reviewing the murder convictions of the Menendez brothers -- next.
 
You are in the CNN NEWSROOM. We will be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:37:44]
 
BROWN:  Los Angeles prosecutors say they are reviewing new evidence involving the Menendez brothers' murder trial. Their case captured the nation's attention over 35 years ago. 
 
Erik and Lyle Menendez were convicted of killing their parents. The renewed interest in their case is particularly due to a recent Netflix series. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Lyle was the only person that had ever protected me. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  What happened that night is very well-known, but so much hasn't been told. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN:  Well, this new review by the L.A. District attorney could potentially change the life sentences both brothers are currently serving. 
 
Joining us now is CNN's Veronica Miracle.
 
So, tell us more about this, Veronica. VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well Pam, this was a high-
 
 profile case when it happened 35 years ago, and it still continues to shock people. 
 
Jose and Kitty Menendez, they were shot to death in their Beverly Hills home. Jose was a successful record executive, and the brothers -- their sons rather, Lyle and Erik Menendez, admitted to killing their parents, but they said they did so in self-defense. They said they were worried that their parents were going to kill them for potentially exposing Jose's long-term sexual abuse of Erik. 
 
Now, at the time, prosecutors said there was no evidence of incest, molestation. They said in fact the brothers were after their parents' multimillion-dollar estate. Now, Los Angeles County district attorney George Gascon says there's no question that the brothers killed their parents, but what is potentially up for review is two new key pieces of evidence. 
 
The first piece of evidence is a letter written by one of the brothers to a cousin that details the sexual abuse, and another is a declaration from another alleged victim of Jose.
 
And so here's what district attorney George Gascon has to say about this review. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEORGE GASCON (D), LOS ANGELES COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  We have not decided on the outcome. We are reviewing the information, but I think it's also important that we recognize that both men and women can be the victims of sexual assault. 
 
We have a moral and an ethical obligation to review what is being presented to us and make a determination. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:40:04]
 
MIRACLE:  And, Pam, a little background on district attorney George Gascon.
 
He is up for reelection. He also has said that, under his leadership, his office has resentenced 300 people. Four of those people have recommitted crimes. A hearing in this case is going to be scheduled for late November, so we will just have to see what happens -- back to you, Pam. 
 
BROWN:  We will be watching it. 
 
Veronica Miracle, thank you so much. 
 
Let's turn now to country singer Garth Brooks, who is being accused of sexual assault and battering a lawsuit from a hair and makeup artist who worked for Brooks. The woman says Brooks raped her in a hotel room during a work trip in 2019. Brooks denies the allegations and says the woman is trying to extort him for hush money. 
 
Well, still ahead this hour, heartbreaking updates in that Tennessee plastics factory that washed away in flooding after Hurricane Helene. One of the surviving employees took this video moments before he was rescued. 
 
We're going to speak to the mayor of the city where that factory is located. 
 
So, be sure to stay with us for that interview. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:45:24]
 
BROWN:  New this morning, a review of National Weather Service alerts shows flood warnings in Erwin, Tennessee, went out nearly a day before a plastic company there says they did. And now a second investigation has been opened into that factory after 11 of its workers were swept away in Hurricane Helene's raging floodwaters. 
 
The workers claimed they were not allowed to leave until it was too late, leading to this terrifying scene. Overall, two workers died and crews are still searching for four others. And now, the company is responding. 
 
Gustavo Valdes joins us now. 
 
So, what is the company saying, Gustavo? 
 
GUSTAVO VALDES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Pamela, last night, the CEO of Impact Plastics released a video in which he denies the claims by many employees that they were not allowed to leave the factory until it was too late. 
 
He says that nobody was forced to stay, nobody's job was threatened if they left. And he also released a timeline that basically starts around 10:35 a.m. on the day of the hurricane hit. And that's when the water started to rise. He said that, within about 15 minutes, they got the alerts going on the cell phones and they told people they could leave. 
 
The whole process, according to him, ended around 11:45. And they also have video evidence that some workers linger about 45 minutes later. That is in contradiction to what we have heard. 
 
So we have the mayor of Erwin, Tennessee, with me to give us a little idea of...
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
VALDES:  Mr. Mayor, thank you for joining us. 
 
GLENN WHITE, MAYOR OF ERWIN, TENNESSEE:  Sure. 
 
VALDES:  But what is the timeline from the city? You told me that you guys were aware of what was happening around 8:00 a.m. 
 
WHITE:  Well, basically, the night before, I called my city administrator and my public works director. 
 
We have had rains before and we have had heavy rains before. So what I was concerned with at that time was just the flooding within our city. And so I said, make sure we got our drains clear and so forth. So the next morning, probably 8:00, 8:30, somewhere around that time, I received a call from my building co-inspector saying that the river was rising. 
 
That was not a major concern at that time because our river has always risen during the large rains that we have had for years. And so when I got to the central office, my city administrator, my police chief, my fire chief, they were already out on the scene there.
 
VALDES:  So, this is around 8:00. And you told us...
 
WHITE:  No, this is probably -- I would say, by the time I got there, I -- you're catching me on times now. Come on, help me here, because we're all...
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
VALDES:  So, when we were talking earlier, you said that 8:00 is when you started getting the alerts. By 10:30, the first priority, you said, is about the hospital. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITE:  You got to talk about alerts. It wasn't an alert. 
 
VALDES:  It wasn't -- they -- wasn't alerted.
 
WHITE:  It wasn't alert.
 
It was just I had my office say that, hey, Mayor, the river is getting high. 
 
Well, we have had that before. So it wasn't an alarming situation for me at that time. And then by the time I got to the office and by the time that I had talked to my city administrator, the water was getting high, higher. 
 
VALDES:  And you say that around 10:30 is when the hospital became the first priority. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITE:  Well, I didn't say it was. 
 
VALDES:  Well, your city manager. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITE:  OK, so, so -- well, no, not that the hospital was the first priority. 
 
They -- all of the area was the first priority. And -- but -- but, again, the water hit so fast that, of course, we were at the industrial zone, where our plant is at. And we were looking -- we were viewing that road. The road was getting washed out, and we did all that we could to alert those people. 
 
But then I think our -- as far as the personnel, the police chief, we were wanting to make sure that we was protecting the patients at the hospital and the people in the industrial zone. 
 
But, of course, they have their own evacuation plans, and they have their own supervisors. 
 
VALDES:  So...
 
WHITE:  So, what I'm trying to say is that you can't pinpoint me on what we did, because it was a chaotic...
 
VALDES:  No, not you. I'm just trying to...
 
WHITE:  It was a chaotic situation. And it hit so fast that I'm not here to blame anyone. 
 
We did the best that we could. And we're still in that recovery phase of the whole situation. So, you pressed me on a timeline. I don't have an official timeline. 
 
Now, if the -- if the officials of their businesses have their timelines, then that's their responsibility to talk to you. I can't talk for them. All I can talk to you about is what we tried to do as a city government. And we did not put a special emphasis on the hospital and not on -- and not on the private industries. 
 <br>[11:50:04]
 
We were trying to do both at the same time.
 
VALDES:  Before we were talking, the 10:30 came from city manager right here.
 
WHITE:  Right. Right. Right. OK.
 
VALDES:  And we...
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
VALDES:  ... 10:30 went to the hospital.
 
WHITE:  OK. That's fine. OK.
 
VALDES:  And that's where we started the point.
 
WHITE:  All right. So, that's...
 
(CROSSTALK) VALDES:  But I appreciate it. And we're trying to work out -- and we see that the community...
 
WHITE:  Yes.
 
VALDES:  You had a nice candlelight vigil last night for the families.
 
WHITE:  We did.
 
VALDES:  And it was a nice unity moment.
 
WHITE:  And, basically, what we want to tell our Hispanic citizens is that they're part of us. We are one people. And that's what I tried to explain to them. 
 
And I know that they understand that. They're part of us, and we love them. And our country's motto is out of many come one. And that's exactly what I'm trying to do as mayor. And that's why I'm here.
 
VALDES:  Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We got to go.
 
WHITE:  OK.
 
VALDES:  Pamela, so this is what we're hearing.
 
One side is the company. The city, obviously, they also have their timeline. We're going to have to wait for the state investigation.
 
BROWN:  All right, Gustavo Valdes, thank you.
 
And We will be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:55:03]
 
BROWN:  And finally this hour, I'd like to shine a light on a community in Winder, Georgia, about an hour outside of Atlanta, and Apalachee High School, the scene of a mass shooting a month ago. 
 
Tonight will be a very emotional night there. The football team will be taking the field in their first home game since that shooting. One of the victims was the football coach, Ricky Aspinwall, known as Coach A. 
 
Aspinwall is survived by his wife, Shayna, who is also a teacher, and their two daughters, Addie and Emery. What a beautiful family. Apalachee's head football coach, Mike Hancock, said Aspinwall was a girl dad. He loved being a girl dad. They had T-shirts that he wore every week that his wife made. And you could tell they loved him. When he came over, their faces lit up. They loved dad. 
 
Well, tonight will be a night to remember, but it will also be a night to heal. And we wish the Wildcats of Apalachee the very best of luck as they play under the lights. 
 
Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Pamela Brown. You can follow me on Instagram, TikTok and X @PamelaBrownCNN.
 
And be sure to stay with us. "INSIDE POLITICS WITH DANA BASH" start after a short break. 
 
Have a great weekend.