Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Biden Slips Into Shadows Amid Shutdown Shambles; Trump Calls For "Ridiculous" Debt Ceiling To Be Extended To 2029; U.S. Officials Make First Visit To Syria Since Assad Regime Fall; U.S. Ends $10M Bounty On Syrian Rebel Leader; U.S. Kills ISIS Leader And Operative In Airstrikes In Syria; Russia Launches Deadly Missile Attack On Kyiv; Snow & Rain Causing Travel Headaches For Great Lakes, Northeast. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired December 20, 2024 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: But he is purposefully staying out of the spotlight, an absence that the White House hopes draws more attention to what it sees as chaos within the Republican Party as they are scrambling to try to reach a deal to avert a shutdown. 
 
Here's how the White House press secretary explained that strategy to CNN's Arlette Saenz just a few moments ago. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: The president really has not been a player at all in these negotiations. I know you said he spoke with Schumer and Jeffries today.
 
But what exactly is the strategy behind that? Is there a sense that perhaps having him involved at this moment would do more harm than good? 
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The president knows how to deal with Congress. He's been around for some time, as you all know. And this is not the first time that we've had this strategy where we have said it is Congress' -- one of their number one jobs is to keep the government open. 
 
In this particular instance, you saw what Republicans did, with Speaker Johnson, obviously leading us to this mess to where we are right now, and they need to fix it, period. It is their mess to fix. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TAUSCHE: Now, for weeks, the White House has sought to stay out of the fray here. Senior administration officials, either not responding to requests on what the White House was doing to try to negotiate with leaders on Capitol Hill. And one senior administration official telling me, point blank, it's in the Hill's hands. 
 
Now, the White House is confident in that strategy because it's worked for them before. Notably, in September 2023, House Republicans were able to reach an 11th-hour deal very close to midnight, where they did avert a shutdown in that moment, where the White House had similarly sought to pin the blame squarely on Republicans for failing to reach an agreement. 
 
So they're essentially ripping a page from the same playbook here. But while they're saying that their main priority is to avert a shutdown, they're also quietly preparing for the possibility of one.
 
Karine Jean-Pierre saying that the White House has begun notifying employees of the federal government that they would be furloughed at midnight if a deal is not reached. 
 
So of course, they are saying that they're optimistic, there is still time for Republicans to reach a deal, but also preparing for that possible worst-case scenario -- guys? 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Kayla Tausche, live for us from the White House, thank you so much. 
 
Let's discuss with CNN's senior political analyst and senior editor of "The Atlantic," Ron Brownstein, and Catherine Rampell, "Washington Post" columnist and CNN economics and political commentator. 
 
Thank you both for being with us. 
 
Ron, first to you. 
 
What do you make of this approach by President Biden to sort of let this play out and potentially shut down? 
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Yes, look, in the narrow sense, as you know, our White House reporters explained, it does kind of extend his usual -- his frequent approach to dealing with Congress. 
 
I mean, there really isn't a lot of reason for him to insert himself directly into this. We know what he would say. He would say the same thing as Jeffrey -- Jeffries and Schumer, which is that Republicans had a deal and they walked away from it.
 
And we know how much impact it would have, which is essentially none on the Republican decision making. But I think also it is clearly an extension of what we have seen, really, since he announced he was not running, you know, last summer.
 
Which is that he has been extraordinarily recessed and stepping away from direct engagement with many of the issues the country is facing in a way that is an odd kind of coda to his presidency. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Yes, it really is. And as we look towards this deadline, Catherine, what would the effects be on the economy? What is really a critical time for Americas economy? 
 
CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS &amp; POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, first of all, it will cost taxpayers more money. It costs money to wind down government operations and to ramp them back up again. But it will also affect the rest of the economy, writ-large. We saw
 
 this back in 2018, 2019, when there was a five week partial shutdown, which is -- which is a baby version of what we're talking about here, when the Congressional Budget Office estimated that it robbed GDP of about $3 billion, that we never got back, that's even after everything was turned back on. 
 
But beyond that, you know, some examples that consumers might see, well, first of all, if you have 875,000 federal workers who are furloughed, that will affect their spending. They're their consumers, too. That will affect their spending, particularly around Christmas. 
 
Not only that, but some essential services will have to continue. So TSA, for example, those workers still have to come into work, but they're not getting paid. 
 
So you might imagine that you'll have more frequent call outs for being sick and greater delays for travelers, again, through a very busy holiday time.
 
And other basic services, things like if you need a new social security card replaced, that's going to be hard to come by. And you know, the IRS is operating on a skeleton staff. 
 
So all of those things do touch American's lives, whether we're talking about the services they rely on from their -- their government or the rest of the economy that's essentially a punching bag, because Republicans can't get their house in order. 
 <br>[13:35:02]
 
SANCHEZ: There's another sort of looming threat for the economy, and that is the debt ceiling. It was part of these negotiations. The original plan had sort of a raise -- or didn't include raising the debt ceiling, but President Trump wanted it to be included. 
 
We're learning that, as far as the latest effort goes on Capitol Hill, it doesn't actually address the debt ceiling. 
 
And Congressman Dan Meuser just told Brianna that there is some discussion of including a $1.5 trillion increase in a reconciliation bill in February but, obviously, we could fall off the fiscal cliff before that. 
 
RAMPELL: So, to be clear, the debt ceiling technically gets -- gets hit in early January, January 1st. But the government has these, like, special accounting measures that they can take.
 
SANCHEZ: Extraordinary measures.
 
RAMPELL: Extraordinary measures, yes. U.S. Treasury, in particular, is well-practiced at doing this because they've had to go through this many times before where it's not like we actually lose the ability to pay our bills right away. 
 
They can move money around, essentially. So it's not like it's a firm deadline. But there's always a little bit of uncertainty about when those extraordinary measures run out. Is it after, you know, a month, several months?
 
And we have even more uncertainty, potentially, right now, because interest rates are high. And so the mix of debt that we would be able to roll over is a little bit more challenging to manage. 
 
So, you know, if -- if, in fact, something comes through in February that would be great. And in fact, I was a fan of -- of Donald Trump's proposal to eliminate the debt ceiling altogether. Sadly, not too many other Republicans believe that. 
 
You know, if, in fact, there is an increase in February, that would be fine. The fear is that if we have enough chaos going on right now, if there's -- there's enough turmoil and disagreement about these more basic things, it seems very unlikely that they're going to get their act together and decide on an increase by February 1st. 
 
KEILAR: And, Ron, the debt ceiling being in play, how -- how would that look? How would that manifest itself into chaos for Trump in his early days of his incoming administration? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, historically, as you know, Republicans in Congress have leveraged the debt ceiling when a Democrat is president to try to insist on major spending cuts as the legislative price for raising the debt ceiling. And there are many -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: I'm so sorry to interrupt you. One moment. 
 
Let's go to Manu Raju. He is walking with Steve Scalise on the Hill. Let's listen in.
 
REP. STEVE SCALICE (R-LA): -- to get spending under control --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCALICE: -- and to secure the border. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCALICE: We can stave that off. Obviously, we took a vote. 
 
(TECHNICAL PROBLEM)
 
KEILAR: Problems with our connectivity here.
 
Ron, sorry. Can you pick it up where you left off? 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: I apologize for interrupting you. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Yes. Usually, it's been Republicans in Congress who try to leverage the increase in the debt ceiling against Obama or Biden to demand cuts in spending as the legislative price of doing that. 
 
And there are conservative Republicans in both chambers who are always reluctant to vote for increasing the debt ceiling. Democrats have tended to go along with it more quietly when there's a Republican in office. 
 
So, you know, Trump -- Trump's plans obviously involve a major increase in federal debt, extending the Trump tax cuts, which expire at the end of 2025, is a hugely expensive proposition, which has grown even more expensive from his various promises on the campaign trail. 
 
So it will be interesting to see whether Democrats take a different posture. I mean, certainly, as we saw again, Elizabeth Warren last night on with Kaitlan Collins on "The Source," was saying Democrats would be happy to end the debt ceiling completely, to eliminate it completely, as I think Catherine was alluding to. 
 
But whether they whether they are now going to try to employ some of the tools that Republicans have in the past and try to leverage their vote to raise it for some policy gains, you know, I would have to think they may move in that direction after watching what Republicans tried to do to both Biden and Obama. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Ron, Catherine, thank you so much. It is a busy day on the Hill. We appreciate your insights. 
 <br>[13:39:14]
 
Still ahead, a team of American diplomats in Syria, for the first time since the fall of the Assad regime and meeting with the de facto ruler, who's rebel group just overthrew it. We have new details on that meeting next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: New developments out of Syria. Top U.S. State Department officials just met with the rebel leader of HTS, the group that is now effectively running the country there. 
 
The U.S. announced that it's dropping the $10 million bounty on the head of the leader there after securing his commitment to prevent terrorist threats in the region. 
 
Let's bring in CNN chief national security correspondent, Alex Marquardt. 
 
That's a big move. Alex. A lot of changes here. 
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and that was one of the headlines out of a briefing that just ended moments ago with these U.S. officials who went to Damascus, that they're dropping this $10 million bounty on a man who they have been calling Abu Mohammad Al-Jolani. 
 
That his was his nom de guerre as he led this group that has been designated a terrorist group. Now his name that -- that he's going by and that that the U.S. is calling him is Ahmad Al-Sharaa. 
 
And we just heard from Barbara Leaf, who is the top Middle East official for the State Department. She said that they had a lengthy, productive, interesting meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Damascus. 
 
She said that she found him pragmatic and moderate in his answers when it came to the things that the U.S. is concerned about, a representative government, one that respects the rights of minorities, women and different sects. 
 
She said, overall, it was very positive. But at the end of the day, it's going to be the deeds, what he actually does. And so this was the first step in an ongoing conversation. 
 <br>[13:44:59]
 
Boris, Brianna, one of the major priorities that these U.S. officials had while in Damascus is also the investigation, the search into Austin Tice, the journalist who disappeared some 12 years ago.
 
Some interesting new details from Roger Carstens, who's in charge of hostage affairs. He said that they are focusing primarily on six facilities where Austin Tice is thought to have been held. 
 
He said that they were quite surprised at the number of secret prisons that had been discovered, believed to have been around 10, but actually 40. 
 
So for right now, they're focusing on these six prisons. They're looking for any shred of evidence they can find. Still hoping to find him, but for now, sadly, no news -- Brianna? 
 
KEILAR: All right. We'll keep looking for that. 
 
Alex, thank you so much for the update.
 
Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Let's get more perspective now with retired Air Force Colonel Cedric Leighton. 
 
Colonel Leighton, great to see you as always.
 
As this delegation arrives in Damascus, we're also learning about a U.S. airstrike that killed an ISIS Leader. Tell us about that and about the broader concerns regarding ISIS in Syria. 
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, Boris, this is Abu Yusuf, who is also known as Mahmoud. He was killed in the Deir Ezzor Province in Syria. So that is in an area that is right about here, in this -- in this general area. 
 
So with his with his death, that really brings us into an area where we've conducted strikes on a bunch of ISIS camps and operatives, basically more than 75 targets. And this is part of a major campaign because the U.S. knows that ISIS
 
 is going to be trying to break out of those detention camps that exist in Syria. About 8,000 of those troops, as General Kurilla, the CENTCOM commander, has mentioned. 
 
And that means that we really have to be quite vigilant, as you know, we have U.S. troops there --
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
LEIGHTON: -- 2,000 now reported there. That makes a real difference when it comes to our ability to project force in that particular area. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, that that announcement of 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria is more than double the previously disclosed number of 900. Tell us about their mission more broadly. Obviously, they're there to counter ISIS, but they do a lot. 
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, they do a lot of things. And you know, you see them here in armored personnel carriers going through, you know, different areas. 
 
One of the key things that they are supposed to be doing is basically securing areas around here. This is the U.S. base at Al-Tanf, right on the Iraqi-Jordanian -- and Jordanian borders, but still within Syria. 
 
They're also present in this area. This is the area where the Kurdish forces are located. And we have a presence throughout here. So those 2,000 troops are basically designed to keep a lid on things, make sure that ISIS doesn't, you know, get out of hand in this particular area.
 
But also to make sure that the rebel forces don't turn on U.S. forces or don't go up and attack our Kurdish allies in this part of Syria. 
 
SANCHEZ: They're keeping a lid on things in a situation like this. Not an easy mission. 
 
Colonel, I want to pivot to talk about Ukraine because we're getting close to entering 2025, entering a new administration with President Trump set to retake the White House. 
 
And we just saw Russia launching a deadly barrage of missiles in Kyiv. Where do you see this war going as we approach an anniversary in late February? 
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, so this is going to be a very difficult time for the Ukrainians because, right in this particular area, the town of Pokrovsk, right at the -- basically the junction of the eastern and southern fronts for the Ukrainians, the Russians are making some progress. 
 
So this is putting pressure on the eastern front and basically the southern front. So areas that potentially are threatened are the city of Zaporizhzhia. There's always a threat to Kharkiv, which is the second-largest city for the Ukrainians. And of course, with Kyiv being attacked -- and this is the aftermath
 
 of the latest attack where one person was killed -- that is something that becomes a critical factor.
 
Because when you look at the broader map, you see that there are going to be a lot of possibilities where the Russians are going to try to keep this territory, and they're going to try to get the Ukrainians out of this area right here. 
 
And when we go into a more detailed map, this shows where the Ukrainians have Russian territory. They're going to use that as leverage to try to get some of their territory back, on the larger map right here. 
 
And if they can get some of this back, that will allow them to hopefully maintain their freedom and their independence as a sovereign country. 
 
SANCHEZ: We should note Vladimir Putin yesterday, during an hours long press conference, saying that he was open to discussions with President-Elect Donald Trump about a ceasefire deal in the future. We'll see what comes of it. 
 
Colonel Cedric Leighton, appreciate you as always. Thanks so much. 
 
LEIGHTON: Thanks, Boris. 
 <br>[13:49:33]
 
Still plenty more news to come on NEWS CENTRAL, including holiday travel getting into full swing this weekend. Could the weather potentially ruin your plans? We've got your forecast in just moments.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Today is the start of a huge holiday travel weekend, and the weather is going to play a big part, as we are learning
 
SANCHEZ: Right.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: -- right here on our show.
 
AAA estimating that a record 119 million people will be traveling starting tomorrow for the yearend holidays. And 107 million of those travelers will be driving, many of them facing cold, snowy weather or storms while they're on the road. 
 
SANCHEZ: Joining us now is Meteorologist Chad Myers to help navigate the busy holiday travel weekend. 
 
Chad, literally, got an alert just moments ago that my flight tonight to Florida is delayed. 
 
I imagine there's going to be a lot of folks on the same boat. CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: There will be. Absolutely. Delays are
 
 going to be the rule, not the -- I just hope you didn't say canceled. 
 
So, yes, I mean, a lot of people will get there. They may just not get there on time. You may miss some connections. That's certainly the case. 
 
One overachiever snow event right now is in Boston. Also seeing some snow now in Detroit and also Buffalo and even Cincinnati had some snow earlier.
 <br>[13:55:03]
 
Winter weather advisories are in effect in the mountains. And there are planes in the sky right now. Many of them are getting delayed because so many of these flights are headed toward the northeast. And that's where the weather is the worst. 
 
Yesterday, it was Minneapolis, five inches of snow there. But the visibility is coming down in some of these areas, especially Harrisburg, only one mile. That means that you're not seeing through that snow very far. 
 
But one thing, this is a takeaway event for today, please clean your windshield. The sun is at the lowest angle of the year. It is going to drive right into your vision. Clean the inside and the outside. 
 
That is the news you can use from me. I did it before I left for work today. 
 
KEILAR: Love it. 
 
SANCHEZ: Good advice. 
 
KEILAR: Love the news you can use. 
 
SANCHEZ: So does this mean that now the sun is going to start going back up and then, therefore, there's warmer weather eventually on the way?
 
KEILAR: And I don't have to clean my windshield. 
 
MYERS: April and May look really good. 
 
SANCHEZ: All right. Chad Myers in the Weather Center.
 
KEILAR: April and May. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SANCHEZ: Thanks, Chad. 
 
KEILAR: Chad, oh.
 
SANCHEZ: Got to wait a bit longer. 
 
KEILAR: Well, yes.
 
SANCHEZ: We may also have to wait a bit longer to find out if the government is going to remain open. Time is running out to avoid a government shutdown as Republicans scramble to get their party on the same page. 
 
And we're waiting to see exactly what is in a new plan, Plan C, that Speaker Mike Johnson has come up with, and whether House Democrats might actually support it. 
 
Stay with CNN NEWS CENTRAL. We're back in just a few minutes.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:00]