Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Arizona Supreme Court Revives Civil War-Era Abortion Ban; Severe Storms Threatening 30 Million-Plus Across the South Today; Now, Six Former Mississippi Goon Squad Officers Sentenced. Aired 10-10:30a ET

Aired April 10, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning. You are live in the CNN Newsroom. I'm Jim Acosta in Washington.
 
And a busy hour of news just ahead, the Biden White House preparing to welcome the Japanese prime minister, the president will hold a news conference shortly. He will likely be asked about the bombshell decision on abortion out of Arizona. We'll bring that to you as it happens.
 
Also breaking this hour, the former financial chief at the Trump Organization who admitted to lying to prosecutors, he is getting jail time. We'll go out live to that as well.
 
Plus, we're live in a Mississippi courtroom, where six former law enforcement officers members of a self-described Goon Squad will soon be sentenced for brutally torturing two men.
 
And severe weather to tell you about flaring up across the Deep South, we have those pictures, we will go live to that in just a few moments as well. So, stay with us for that.
 
But, first, the president and first lady are hosting an official arrival ceremony for Japan's prime minister and his wife. It comes ahead of the two leaders' bilateral meeting and joint press conference being held in the coming hours over at the White House. You can see the secretary of state, secretary of defense, the vice president, Kamala Harris, all standing by as the prime minister will be showing up on the south lawn of the White House at any moment at that news conference that I mentioned this afternoon.
 
President Biden will almost certainly be asked about Arizona's controversial Supreme Court decision on abortion. He's already called the abortion ruling cruel and dangerous.
 
CNN White House Correspondent Priscilla Alvarez joins us now. And, Priscilla, I mean, women across America this morning are waking up to reproductive rights being taken away and state after state, it seems. And this morning, it's Arizona. It's another flash point in this cultural war we've been seeing happening all across the country. PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  And it's more fuel for the White House and for President Biden to tie these unpopular abortion bans that are happening across the country directly to former President Donald Trump.
 
In fact, in the moments after we received this ruling yesterday, the White House released a statement. I'm going to read you some of that. This from President Biden, quote, millions of Arizonans will soon live under an even more extreme and dangerous abortion ban, which fails to protect women even when their health is at risk or in tragic cases of rape or incest.
 
It goes on to say, quote, this ruling is a result of the extreme agenda of Republican elected officials who are committed to ripping away women's freedoms.
 
Now, of course, the Biden campaign has been seizing on this issue, seeing it as one that will galvanize voters, particularly in the very critical swing state of Arizona. And when I spoke to a Democratic strategist this morning, they said, look, this is another data point in what has already been the argument for Democrats in this election and framing it and continuing to frame it as going after freedoms, personal freedoms and health care.
 
And the vice president also weighing in on this. She, of course, has been on a reproductive freedoms tour, kicking that off in January. And she said that we're essentially going back to a time when women couldn't vote, that is what this abortion ban stems from, and then also going on to tie it to former President Donald Trump. And she's going to take that message to Arizona on Friday.
 
ACOSTA:  All right. Priscilla Alvarez, thank you very much on this fast-moving morning.
 
Let's discuss with former assistant special assistant to President Biden, Meghan Hays, and CNN political commentator and Republican strategist Shermichael Singleton.
 
Meghan, I mean, we've seen the president put out a statement on abortion. Priscilla just referred to it a few moments ago. It's likely maybe it won't happen. Maybe it will happen, but he probably will be asked about abortion in Arizona.
 
And I'm just wondering what's on your mind when you see what's happening in this country right now, women across America. It seems like almost every week another state, there's another very hard line law taking place, chipping away at reproductive freedom in this country.
 
MEGHAN HAYS, FORMER SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Yes, I think this is a really big issue, an important issue for Democrats. I think that they need to be able to capitalize this in November. It's a huge fundraising issue for them as well. It's also a good voter turnout issue. I mean, like that's one of the things that we've talked about a lot is what's going to turn out voters, and this is an issue that's going to get women and men and mostly moderates to the ballot to vote in November.
 
And I think that the president will capitalize on that. It's an issue we've spoken a lot about. The vice president is very passionate about this, but also it's just -- again, like Priscilla said, it's drawing the contrast between former President Trump and the President Biden on taking away freedoms and health care for women.
 
ACOSTA:  And, Shermichael, I do want to have you weigh in on this in just a moment, but, first, you're seeing some pictures out of Phoenix, obviously, where this abortion issue has been flaring up, but I also want to show you some live pictures right now of the president with the Japanese prime minister.
 <br>[10:05:04]
 
He is right now welcoming the Japanese prime minister here to the White House. They will be, within the next few hours, holding meetings.
 
Meghan, you're used to all of this. They'll be having some bilateral meetings behind closed doors. But then we will see the two leaders out in front of the cameras taking questions. Of course, they'll be asked about a range of issues, like China, maybe the war in Ukraine.
 
But, Shermichael, this issue of abortion, once again, flaring up, this time in Arizona. I mean, this is going back to a law from the Civil War-era.
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  1864, before it was even a state.
 
ACOSTA:  And you're a Republican strategist. Do you really want states going back to Civil War-era laws on reproductive freedom? I mean, women didn't even have the right to vote at that point. This sounds like kryptonite. This sounds toxic for Republicans across the country.
 
SINGLETON:  Jim, I don't want states going back to pre-Civil War for obvious reasons here, right?
 
ACOSTA:  Point taken. Good point.
 
SINGLETON:  But I will say this. Remember 10,457 votes, Meghan. That's how many votes President Biden won the state of Arizona. There is not a path for Donald Trump to the White House without winning the state of Arizona.
 
Now, President Biden struggled a little bit on the economy, struggled a little bit on the issue of immigration. This was a gift, an early gift, to the president. This is an issue where Democrats will fundraise on, they will target Republicans in tight districts, they will target Republicans down ballot. And my question to a lot of my Republican friends, Jim, what are we doing here?
 
And I have a lot of respect to my evangelical friends. I spent a lot of time working and talking with them when I worked for Dr. Carson in 2016. I'm all about convictions. But convictions with no power are a pipe dream. You have to have power in a lot of things (ph). If you can't win anything, there's nothing, Meghan.
 
HAYS:  But are there convictions? I mean, the current Senate Republican who's running in Arizona literally flip-flopped and said, this is not what we want. This isn't what we stand for.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes, you're talking about Kari Lake. I mean, her condemnation of the this was a far cry from her stance on it less than two years ago. I don't know if we have the sound on this, but let's listen to that.
 
SINGLETON:  It's a good point.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARI LAKE, ARIZONA REPUBLICAN SENATE CANDIDATE:  We have a great law on the books right now.
 
It will prohibit abortion in Arizona, except to save the life of a mother. And I think we're going to be setting the -- paving the way and setting course for other states to follow.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  I mean, at least she's not going back and forth on the 2020 election. But, you know, this -- yes, I mean, this is going to be tough.
 
SINGLETON:  I mean, Jim, we're not winning on this issue. Kansas, Wisconsin, Supreme Court, Ohio, and even the idea of 15 weeks, Lindsey Graham came out and said, we should do 15 weeks. And my governor in the state of Virginia, Youngkin, ran on, well, let's do 15 weeks.
 
Not only did Democrats keep their majority in the state house, they also won the state senate. We're not winning because women are clearly saying, and even some men, even some Republicans, and we don't believe the government should use compulsory force to dictate what people should do with their bodies. And I understand that.
 
ACOSTA:  The genie is out of the bottle. I mean, Meghan, the vice president is going to Arizona on Friday. Here's -- about the decision.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT:  Understand, to stop bans like this, we need a United States Congress that will restore the protections of Roe v. Wade. And when they do, President Joe Biden will sign it into law. And let's always remember, it does not have to be this way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  And, Meghan, if this ruling is upheld, 15 states, I don't know if we can show this on screen, but 15 states will have a near- total abortion ban. And, I mean, for all the talk about democracy being on the ballot in the fall, it sounds like Dobbs is very much on the minds of voters, is going to be on the ballot in a range of states, battleground states this fall.
 
HAYS:  Yes, absolutely. I mean, I think this just goes to show this is drawing the contrast between former President Trump and President Biden of what -- where your freedoms lie. And this is, again and again, going to be a major issue. People, I mean, in Arizona, they're working to get a ballot initiative on, which is going to drive voter turnout, which is going to be huge for President Biden and Vice President Harris to win in November.
 
ACOSTA:  But, I mean -- but Shermichael, I mean, at the same time though, it's Donald Trump. I mean, by his own admission, he has said he is the one who took down Roe versus Wade. So, as much as you can say to the party, hey, guys, we got t knock it off.
 
SINGLETON:  Well, listen to me, Jim. They're not listening on this. I mean, the president, the former president, I get it, he's trying to appeal to evangelicals. And then he came out with a statement and said it should be a state's issue.
 
I would have wanted him or I would have advised to go a step further. Meghan, I would have said it's a state issue that voters in the state should decide, because that way, we know, based on history, so far, voters are deciding to keep it. And that I think would have given him an out. It also would have taken away the question if he was signed a national ban, which a lot of people still have lingering out there.
 <br>[10:10:01]
 
We're not winning on this.
 
And if I could tell Republicans, guys, we got to step away from this, there's a lot at stake beyond just a presidency. You're talking about the House. You're talking about how many seats potentially could be won at the Senate.
 
And, again, all of those down-ballot seats are now at jeopardy because we have allowed evangelicals to own this issue when most Americans saying we don't like what you guys are giving.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. And we want to remind our viewers, we are showing you some live pictures periodically throughout this hour. The president, the prime minister of Japan, they're going to be holding a joint news conference just a short while from now.
 
You can see the pomp and circumstance of the official visit. They're calling this an official visit of the Japanese prime minister, not a state visit because, technically, the state of Japan is run by an emperor, I guess, ceremonially. But they're calling this an official visit. But in a couple of hours from now, the president will also hold a news conference.
 
We do think the president may make some remarks here in just a few moments. Typically, that's the case, right? Meghan, he will welcome the prime minister to the United States and make some comments about the strong relationship between the United States and Japan. We'll dip into that when that takes place. But, Meghan, I mean, one of the things that obviously is on the minds of people inside the White House is just how the president is going to thread the needle, politically speaking, heading into this November cycle. And is there much of a debate right now as to what should be the lead issue?
 
I mean, Politico has this audio, apparently, of Ron Klain, the former chief of staff, your former boss, saying that the president is out there talking about bridges too much. But it sounds as though bridges are out the window at this point. I mean, it sounds as though the White House has found its issue.
 
HAYS:  Yes, I think so, absolutely. But I do think it is important to remind folks of the infrastructure bill and some other things. I think that does affect just not only Democrats, but Republicans in these places. I mean, we've had a lot of we just had a bridge fault a couple weeks ago in Maryland. So, I do think it is important.
 
I wouldn't probably, you know --
 
ACOSTA:  Might not have said it the same way as Ron?
 
HAYS:  Maybe. But Ron, just like the president says, all he means and means what he says. So, you know, and he stood by it when asked about it when Politico contacted him. So -- but I do think that abortion is the issue that the Democrats are going to need to lean hard into right now.
 
SINGLETON:  I think it's a number one issue. I would say abortion. President Biden announced yesterday at an interview that he's looking to take some type of action on immigration, so he's trying to regain control there. That's important.
 
And then I also think on the issue of the economy, I think instead of saying everything's great, the president should say things are getting better. Those three things, the president appears to have an advantage thanks to Republicans, thanks to people like Marjorie Taylor Greene. I just don't get it, Jim.
 
ACOSTA:  Thanks, Meghan, Shermichael, we appreciate it. Shermichael said it. Not us. All right, guys.
 
Let's discuss more now with Democratic Congressman Robert Garcia of California. He's a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. Congressman, thanks so much for being here.
 
I know your California and abortion rights, reproductive rights. I mean, they're pretty safe there in California. I mean, unless, of course, the president loses in the fall, Donald Trump becomes president and you have a Republican Congress, then I suppose things are different.
 
But what is your reaction to this ruling in Arizona, and what do you hope the president says if he's asked about it at this news conference coming up soon? REP. ROBERT GARCIA (D-CA):  I mean, first of all, it's obviously a horrific, horrific day and week for everyone in Arizona. And we're going to be impacted in California as well, obviously, as we will face women and folks that really need this service, these supports.
 
I mean, abortion, we know is health care. We know that Donald Trump is directly responsible through his actions, through what he's done through the court, through his comments, through his pushing the Republican conference here in conference, here in Congress, for what's happening across the country, not just in Arizona, but just the denying of access of reproductive health care, the moving back just generations in these rights.
 
And so we have a real choice here. Joe Biden is the person that's going to help restore national abortion rights. Vice President Harris is going to Arizona here, as we know. And the president will continue to be clear and loud that this is a choice between women and their doctors and that we need to stop Donald Trump from continuing this march of moving our rights backwards.
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. Congressman, I mean, you did bring up an interesting point, and I guess I hadn't thought about it. But I suppose there might be spillover effects for some of these states bordering, and we were showing this to our viewers earlier, these states down south and heading out west where abortion is being banned in all sorts of places.
 
I suppose in many of those cases, you have women who are going to be going to neighboring states or states that are somewhat far away, like California, to get that health care. And that might put a tax on the healthcare system in places like California.
 
GARCIA:  Well, absolutely. I mean, we know this already to be true. We've seen what's happened in the effects in the south, for example.
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
And as abortion rights have been restricted in certain states, folks are actually going to other states. And the impact is real. It's happening right now, as we know, in places like Florida. And so we for a fact that what's happened right in Arizona is going impact California, it is going to impact our own health care system. And we're, of course, ready to stand for anyone that needs access to abortion rights in our state. But the bigger issue here is this is happening state after state after state.
 
And regardless of the courageous actions taken by the attorney general in Arizona, who, of course, is a Democrat, this is very serious issue and it's going to be the defining issue going into November. We are going remind the public every single day that Donald Trump and the Republican Party want to roll back abortion rights.
 
ACOSTA:  And do you believe former President Trump when he says he just wants to leave it to the states?
 
GARCIA:  I mean, how can you leave anything Donald says? First, let's be really clear, he's said time and time again that he's responsible for what happened at the court as it relates to Roe v. Wade. He has said multiple times what his thoughts were about abortion. He said, essentially, that the doctors possibly could be prosecuted before in forums, that women shouldn't be getting abortions. And so he, first of all, has multiple positions, as we know, on this issue.
 
But what we do know are what his actions are, which is appointing extreme extremists to the court. It's ensuring and supporting the Republican caucus here in Congress on their actions. And so his record is clear. He wants to roll back abortion rights. He wants to continue this march to remove rights away from women and we're going to continue to fight him and the Congress here and majority here at Congress.
 
ACOSTA:  And just finally, very quickly, Congressman, I did want ask you about Israel and Hamas. The defense secretary, Lloyd Austin, was up on Capitol Hill yesterday. He was asked about whether Israel is committing genocide in Gaza. Let's listen to that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE:  We don't have any evidence of genocide being created.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  So, that's a no, Israel's not committing genocide in Gaza?
 
AUSTIN:  We don't have evidence of that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA:  I mean, Congressman, but what's your take on all of that?
 
GARCIA:  I mean, look, I think I have been calling for a ceasefire in the Israel-Gaza War back since November. I think that we are beyond time now. We need to have a resolution to this war. The hostages need to be released. I support the efforts for an immediate ceasefire. We need humanitarian aid into Gaza immediately. And I think that right now what we're focused on is ensuring that the ceasefire that is currently being negotiated happens.
 
Now, the loss of life, of civilian life is horrific. The Netanyahu government has failed in their efforts in trying to actually resolve this conflict. And so I think the president needs to continue to put as much pressure as possible to end the war immediately.
 
ACOSTA:  Would you like to see put more pressure?
 
GARCIA:  Absolutely I mean I think those of us here in Congress, particularly the Progressive Caucus are continuing to address the president. We just sent him a letter actually just a couple days ago outlining kind of what we see as how we resolve this conflict. I think the pressure needs to continue. ACOSTA:  All right. Congressman Garcia, thank you very much for your time. We appreciate it.
 
We're following severe weather moving across the south with the threat of tornadoes. Water rescues are underway. You can see some of the video right there. Please be very careful in these kinds of flashfloods. You have to be careful. Don't try to cross any roads if you're in situations, conditions like this.
 
More on all of this, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
ACOSTA:  All right. This morning, more than 30 million people across the south could face dangerous flooding and tornadoes as a severe storm system stretching from Texas to Georgia continues to batter the region in Kirbyville, Texas.
 
Major flooding overnight shut down the town and prompted emergency high water rescues. And officials are warning cities, including New Orleans and Jackson, Mississippi, could see intense tornadoes as storms move through the region.
 
Allison Chinchar is tracking the system. Allison, this is a dangerous system. What more can you tell us?
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  All right. So, we're getting video in now, some photos here to kind of explain some of the damage we're starting to see out of Port Arthur, Texas. Again, here you can see this brick building that entire wall taken out. We also know of trees down, some power lines down, some significant roof damage to some of these areas and obviously some barns and sheds taking on some damage as well.
 
But that's just one component. The other has been the flooding. Again, this video, this is actually shot from the inside of a fire truck. And you know those are very high-profile vehicles. You can see the flooding that they are going through in the water actually still coming into the vehicle. That fire truck took that video near the town of Kirbyville, Texas.
 
Now, this is an area that's under that flash flood emergency until at least 11:30 A.M. Central Time, and it's because of the amount of water that has really come through this area just in the last few hours. The Pine Oak Creek, which is in Kirbyville, rose ten feet in just six hours, bringing that creek up to major flood stage. And it's not the only spot. Again, you can see here on this map. You've got a lot of these areas here. Look at that pink color. That indicates at least ten inches of rain has fallen in just the last 48 hours. So, that ground is saturated. Now, we're adding more rain on top of it, so the flood threat is going to be ongoing.
 
We've also had several severe thunderstorm warnings right now. We've had tornado warnings off and on throughout much of the morning today. That's going to continue and that's why they have this tornado watch here valid until 1:00 P.M. Central Time today. That's for portions of Eastern Louisiana, as well as a good chunk of Mississippi.
 
That's all part of that broader system that's going to continue to transition to the east as we go through the day today. So, tornadoes are still expected for the rest of the day. Some could be strong. You're talking EF-2 or stronger. We're also looking at significant damaging winds and also some large hail, could be larger than golf ball size in some of these cases.
 <br>[10:25:03]
 
And it's for all of these areas you see here shaded, even the green area still has the potential. But, obviously, the big focus is going to be much closer towards the Gulf Coast. We talked about that threat for the very significant tornadoes. That, again, is also going to be really focused around the gulf coast region.
 
Timing-wise, you've got a lot of these areas that are going to dealing with it just a different time. So, say, around lunchtime, the peak really hits for places like Jackson, Mississippi, and New Orleans. By the time we get to the evening commute tonight, the focus really is around Alabama, so Huntsville, Birmingham, Montgomery. And then by tonight, it begins to move into Atlanta and eventually into Charlotte, North Carolina by the morning.
 
ACOSTA:  All right, very dangerous stuff. All right, please keep us posted, Allison. If anything changes, we'll go back to you. Thank you so much.
 
In the meantime, some breaking news to tell you about, the state sentencing for six former Mississippi law enforcement officers happening right now. Here you see some live pictures from the courtroom in Jackson, Mississippi. The officers coming in one-by-one to be sentenced after they pleaded guilty to torturing and sexually assaulting two black men they were sworn to protect in their community, one of whom was shot in the mouth.
 
This group of officers called themselves the, quote, Goon Squad, and the case has garnered national attention and horror, frankly. Our teams have been covering this for months now from the overt racism and inhumane acts committed in this 2023 incident.
 
CNN Chief Law Enforcement and Intelligence Analyst John Miller joins us now. And CNN's Legal Analyst Joey Jackson, both joining me now. Gentlemen, thank you so much.
 
John, this is just one of the most horrendous police brutality cases I've ever heard of. I know you've covered and dealt with these sorts of things so many times over the years. Your reaction to what we're seeing in court this morning and the importance of this case.
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Well, the importance of this case just surrounds the unspeakable nature of the acts of these police officers that were premeditated. They planned much of it before they arrived on the scene. You're talking about brutality, torturing people with tasers. You are talking a sexual assault against one of those victims. And then, if all of that isn't shocking enough, a team of police officers, one of whom put a gun in one the victim's mouth and fired it, we heard him today saying, they killed me that day. I just didn't die. I'm a musician and a singer, but they shot me, and I am unable to carry that on. It actually belies belief that people who took an oath would do something like this.
 
And what we're seeing now, the sentences 15 years, 20 years. These are concurrent with the federal sentences they already received. So, in some measure, this is symbolic, but it's an important symbolism. It shows that the state of Mississippi is engaging in justice even after the federal government has.
 
ACOSTA:  Absolutely. And, Joey Jackson, I mean, if you could weigh in on this, we're expecting to hear some victim impact statements. I mean, judging by what John was just saying a few moments ago, these should be some very, I guess, emotionally wrought statements. I mean, I this is just the worst of the worse when it comes to police brutality. I mean, what's your reaction to all of this?
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST:  Yes, without question, Jim. This is what accountability looks like, and it looks that way with respect to federal sentencing as well as state sentencing. Remember, there's a role for the federal government. That role was played, each of these six receiving different sentences, consistent with the activities they engaged in and the misconduct and illegality, really, that they were involved in.
 
These are officers who were sworn to protect. Instead, they're terrorizing these two African-American men, and by all accounts, with respect to prior bad acts, terrorizing an entire community. And so the federal government certainly that has a place charged them deprivation of rights and conspiracy, et cetera, and they were sentenced on that already.
 
To what John Miller was saying, this is now a state court proceeding. The state, of course, also has a place as it relates to ensuring accountability, and that's what we're seeing.
 
In addition to the thing John Miller has mentioned, let's not forget the name-calling, the urinating in the closet of the home that they invaded at the time to show further degradation, and to think that something like this can happen in 2024 is remarkable. It's shocking. You know, it's just despicable.
 
And so now, the state court, state judge will issue these sentences to be served concurrently. But, certainly, it is appropriate that the judge do so and it's appropriate they be found to account for what it is that they did, which was horrific.
 <br>[10:30:01]
 
ACOSTA:  Yes. And I should note, our Ryan Young, who is in the courtroom right now.