Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Netanyahu Asks Hostage Families For Forgiveness; Kamala Harris's Labor Day Message; Biden on the Trail; Pope Arrives In Indonesia For 12-Day Asia-Pacific Tour. Aired 5-5:30a ET

Aired September 03, 2024 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:39]
 
PAULA REID, CNN ANCHOR:  It's Tuesday, September 3rd.
 
Right now on CNN THIS MORNING:
 
And protesters are demanding a hostage release deal, once again flooding the streets of Israel, bringing the country to a near halt.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  You may not be a union member. You better thank a union member.
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN), VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  It was labor that built this country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  And Kamala Harris and Tim Walz ignite their fall campaign blitz with a Labor Day pitch to union members. 
 
And --  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Are you ready to elect Kamala Harris our next president of the United States?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  President Biden emerges on the campaign trail as a top surrogate for Harris, traveling to pivotal swing states.
 
(MUSIC)
 
REID:  It's 5:00 a.m. here in Washington. Here's a live look at Capitol Hill.
 
And good morning, everyone. I'm Paula Reid, in for Kasie Hunt. It's great to be with you. And protesters filling streets across Israel in an act of defiance
 
 against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Demonstrators angered by the Israeli governments failure to secure a hostage deal. Just days after the bodies the six hostages, including one U.S. citizen, who recovered in Gaza.
 
Netanyahu dismissing the criticisms and asking for compassion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  I told the families, and I repeat and say this evening, I'm asking for your forgiveness that we didn't manage to bring them back alive. We were very close, but we couldn't make it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  Joining me now, CNN international correspondent Paula Hancocks. 
 
Paula, what can you tell us about where things stand today? 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Paula, despite the fact that hundreds of thousands of protesters were on the streets of Israel pushing the Israeli prime minister to sign a ceasefire hostage deal, he is still acting defiant. The speech on Monday where he said that it is up to Hamas to make the concession. 
 
So despite the immense pressure on him at this point, he is digging in and saying he will not change his mind. Now what he has said is that there needs to be Israeli military stationed on the border between Egypt and Gaza, the Philadelphi corridor, saying that would prevent Hamas re-arming and smuggling arms in. It is something that has created difficulties within his own cabinet, his defense minister even saying this is not necessary.
 
Sources close to these negotiations say that he is changing conditions when it comes to this particular deal. 
 
And we know that it is something that Hamas will not agree to. So despite the immense pressure that is building inside Israel, as well as outside the Israeli prime minister is really doubling down at this point. Now, we've also heard the U.S. President Joe Biden criticizing him fairly publicly when asked whether or not it was believed that he was doing enough Netanyahu to get this deal done. The president said simply, no one word speaking, 1,000 volumes there. The frustration from the Biden administration has been very clear when it comes to the Israeli prime minister and the lack of this hostage ceasefire deal. The Bide administration is still continuing to try to get this deal done. 
 
We know that discussions have been ongoing. There have been meetings with the U.S. president and his security officials in the Situation Room on Monday to try and hammer out what they are calling a final proposal, a final deal that they will put to both Israel and Hamas in the hope of getting a deal done -- Paula.
 
REID:  Paula Hancocks, thank you. 
 
And President Biden joined Vice President Harris on the campaign trail yesterday, well, he didn't address the Israel-Hamas conflict in his remarks as Paula Hancocks just reported, he did have a quick response for reporters who asked him to weigh in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REPORTER:  Do you think it's time for Prime Minister Netanyahu to do more on this issue? 
 <br>[05:05:00]
 
Do you think he's doing enough? 
 
BIDEN:  No.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  Later in the day, President Biden also said he would, quote, eventually speak with the Israeli prime minister.
 
Joining me now to discuss how the ongoing wars impacting the race this here at home, Mychael Schnell, congressional reporter with "The Hill", and Reese Gorman, political reporter at "NOTUS". 
 
All right. So obviously the Israel-Hamas war remains a hot button issue, especially in Michigan, one of the key states in this race, and also home to the largest Arab American population in the country.
 
Now, one Republican backed groups seems to be leaning into this divide in the Democratic Party and just released this ad.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AD NARRATOR:  So when Netanyahu came to D.C., Harris hosted the prime minister up the White House. And when supporters of a Free Palestine stood up for Gaza, Harris put them in their place and supporters of Free Palestine, they hate her.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  So, Reese, I want to get your reaction to this ad.
 
REESE GORMAN, POLITICAL REPORTER, NOTUS:  Yeah, this is just kind of just normal campaigning, right? I mean, you have Michigan, which is a pivotal swing state. And this Arab American vote is one of the biggest blocks, is a huge block in the state. 
 
And Harris needs to win these people in these votes. And she can't afford to lose very many  votes, just like Trump can't afford to lose very many Republican votes. And these voters and usually swing Democratic and so this kind of ad that they're playing is kind of playing towards the fact that she is -- her administration, they have kind of backed Israel. They have been supportive of Israel and this is playing into that, trying to get these people not to show up. You saw the -- Michigan is also state where you had a huge block of
 
 uncommitted voters when Biden first ran, when Biden was originally running to the primary. And a lot of that uncommitted vote was because of his stance on the Israel-Hamas war. 
 
So that's kind of what we're seeing is Republicans playing into this and trying to get these voters, this voter block just not, not even to vote for Donald Trump, but just not to show out and not to vote. And that would hurt Harris in the election there. 
 
REID:  And, Mychael, do you think that this -- this kind of ad, this kind of attack will be effective in Michigan?
 
MYCHAEL SCHNELL, CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER, THE HILL:  I mean, it could be. This is, as Reese noted, one of the most pivotal matters among Michigan voters. We saw that uncommitted vote, it was a sizable part of the electorate back during the Democratic primary. 
 
In short, that was for President Biden. But really it's been the Biden-Harris administration that has come under criticism from some folks for their approach to the Israel-Hamas war. I also think that this is just continuing to see what reason I both see you on Capitol Hill frequently is that Republicans like to play into this division, this is a well-known division within the Democratic Party where you have staunchly pro-Israel Democrats going up against pro-Palestinian progressives who are really frustrated by the mounting humanitarian deaths in the Gaza Strip. 
 
This has been an effective attack line for Republicans because it shows this -- this difference and variation among the Democratic Party. And right now, we're in the final stretch of the elections. I think that Republicans know that this is an effective attack line for them. They've seen that on Capitol Hill, they've seen that on the campaign trail. They're going to continue to play into that division for their political purposes. 
 
REID:  And while we know there is this divide within the Democratic Party, here's what Vice President Harris said. She would do on Israel conflict. And last week CNN interview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  I'm unequivocal and unwavering in my commitment to Israel's defense and its ability to defend itself. This war must end. 
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  In the meantime --  
 
HARRIS:  And we must get a deal that is about getting the hostages out. Ive met with the families of the American hostages. Let's get the hostages out. Let's get the ceasefire done.
 
BASH:  No change in policy in terms of arms and so forth? 
 
HARRIS:  No, we have to get a deal done.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  And, Mychael, is that enough? Is that going to be enough to sort of unite the factions inside her party? 
 
SCHNELL:  Probably not because she's backing President Biden's approach to the war in Gaza, which has been the subject of this controversy and of this criticism, particularly among those Arab- Americans, progressives, folks like we've seen the uncommitted vote in Michigan. 
 
So Vice President Harris standing by President Biden, not showing any parity in terms of their stands and how they approach the war probably not going to help with that criticism, but I think the main question here is that the Harris campaign is betting that this block of uncommitted voters and progressive voters, are going to at the end of the day, vote Democratic and side with Vice President Kamala Harris because the alternative, former president Trump, and their eyes is worse for the situation in Gaza.
 
Now, will -- you know, they're rolling the dice and betting that they will -- they will show up because they think that the alternative is worse. That's sort of what we saw with the DNC last month where a Palestinian American did not speak at the convention that came under very sharp criticism from progressives. 
 
But again, Democrats plowed ahead and did not give them a speaking slot, likely because they figure that at the end of the day, they will show up despite this divide. 
 <br>[05:10:01]
 
It's a very large bet to make especially among this very dedicated and uncommitted vote group, and in a key swing state of Michigan. 
 
But this just seems to be how the campaign is playing this issue, about two months out from Election Day.
 
REID:  Reese, what is your reaction to the campaign's message here? 
 
GORMAN:  So the campaign is basically mean to Michael's point. They are kind of making a bet here. The fact that these voters are going to come back to them at the end of the day but that's a big bet to make this. These voters are extremely angry. You saw there protest out the DNC in Chicago. 
 
And so they're very upset. They're angry and I think it is kind of a bet to make and its risky to take on because if these people don't show up for you and don't show out and don't vote for you. That's a voter block that you're losing. And in this tight election, this smallest of margins really can make a difference, especially in key pivotal states such as Michigan. And I think it's a big risk that they're taking absolutely. 
 
REID:  Absolutely. Like you said, all about Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, can't afford to lose any votes there.
 
GORMAN:  Not at all.
 
REID:  Mychael Schnell, Reese Gorman, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
And coming up on CNN this morning, Pope Francis embarks on his longest trip, yet, a 12th day journey that highlights the Catholic Church's pivot towards Asia.
 
Plus, a full sprint, just shore up blue wall support, President Biden joins forces with Kamala Harris on the campaign trail and Tim Walz touts his union roots in a labor day pitch for the working class, as the campaign pushes to court the critical voting bloc for 2024.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALZ:  If you want to attack me for standing up for collective bargaining, for fair wages, for safe working conditions, for health care and retirement, you roll the damn dice, I'll take my chances on that. I'll take my chances.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:15:58]
 
REID:  It is 15 minutes past the hour. Here's your morning roundup. 
 
Take a look at the moment two U.S. Marines were attacked in the Turkish city of Izmir on Monday. A small crowd of attackers chanting "Yankee, go home" as they put a bag over the head of one of the Marines. Both Marines escaped uninjured, and 15 suspects were taken into custody by local police.
 
And the U.S. seizing Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's airplane in the Dominican Republic and sending it to Florida. The U.S. says Maduro's acquisition of the plane was in violation of the U.S. sanctions, among other criminal issues.
 
And nearly 159,000 children in Gaza have now been vaccinated against polio in the first two days of a U.N.-led campaign, the vaccinations are expected to continue today and the U.N. hopes to vaccinate 640,000 children in Gaza for September 12. 
 
And still to come on CNN this morning, 20,000 miles away from his home in Vatican City, Pope Francis is embarking on his longest trip yet. 
 
Plus, unrest in Israel. How Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is responding do outrage over his handling of the hostages in Gaza.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:21:31]
 
REID:  The Eastern U.S. is seeing a hint of fall while parts of the southwest are forecasted to experience triple digit temperatures. Let's go to meteorologist Derek Van Dam.
 
Derek, what are you seeing? 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  Good morning, Paula. 
 
Yeah. That's -- that's the dichotomy of both sides of our country today. It's the heat and summer-like temperatures over the west. And it's the cool autumn like temperatures across the Northeast. 
 
We're going to try and break it down for you, as you start your Tuesday morning. This is just picture perfect, lots of comfortable temperatures across the Northeast, with low humidity values as well. A little bit of warmth across the Deep South as expected. 
 
But I want you to see what's happening across the Southwest. This is where the heat is going to build too dangerously high levels through the course of this work week, 106 today for Las Vegas, Phoenix at 108. 
 
So you can see the contrast between below and above average temperatures across the Western and Eastern half of the country. 
 
But we do have the National Weather Service issuing some excessive heat warnings as well as advisories. And this is just away from the coastline across south and central portions of the state of California. 
 
And this is just an extraordinary. We know it's hot here. But look at this: we're talking about Los Angeles topping out at 100 degrees by the end of the week. That is well over 20 degrees above average. So that's dangerous heat. We call that extreme heat. 
 
So they're putting in a lot of precautionaries to combat this excessive heat that will build through the Southwest this week, including an opening, some cooling centers -- Paula.
 
REID:  Derek Van Dam, thank you. 
 
And Pope Francis is kicking off his 12-day visit to Southeast Asia and the South Pacific. Earlier this morning, he touched on in Indonesia after 13 hour flight from Rome. This trip underscores a shift taking he place inside the Catholic Church a tilt toward Asia and the people of Singapore are embracing it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUNYOTO, INDONESIAN WORKER (through translator):  Frankly, I have a different religion, but I like it. It means being together, the union. It means mutual respect. That's what I like. I'm okay that he's coming to Indonesia. I like it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  And over the next 12 days, the 87-year-old pontiff make stops in Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, East Timor, and Singapore.
 
Now, CNN Vatican correspondent Christopher Lamb is traveling with the pope. He joins us live now from Jakarta.
 
Chris, you're traveling with the pope. He actually spoke to reporters aboard his plane. What did he say?
 
CHRISTOPHER LAMB, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Paula, the pope was in good spirits and sharing quite a lot of energy at the back of the plane when he greeted reporters, he always come to the back of the plane to greet, talk to briefly, each reported traveling with him. 
 
He was making some jokes. He was saying he was looking forward to the trip, he thanked journalists for accompany him and he said is the longest trip of his pontificate. He's going to need that energy if he's going to get through the next 12 days because he's got a lot of events including here in Jakarta. He's going to the Istiqlal mosque, the largest mosque in Southeast Asia, because right at the heart of this trip is the importance of interfaith dialogue. 
 
Pope Francis wants to show to the world how important it is for religions to talk to each other, to have friendship, to have dialogue, and he's hoping that that message will resonate more finally, at a time of growing religious extremism, global conflicts.
 <br>[05:25:07]
 
Indonesia is a good example of that coexistence between faith. I was speaking to a Catholic priest earlier who said that in many Indonesian families, you have people of a lot of different faiths. You have Buddhists, Muslims, Christians. 
 
So he's going to be here in Jakarta for the next few days. He's going to be underlying the importance of inter-religious dialogue, and interfaith friendship. And then he is going to Papua New Guinea, East Timor, and Singapore. It's the longest trip, as I said, that this pope was undertaken, it's the longest trip that any pope has embarked upon. 
 
The fact that Francis is doing it at 87 is sending a message that he's still have a lot of gas left in the tank -- Paula. 
 
REID:  That is remarkable, especially at his age. Christopher Lamb, thank you. 
 
And still ahead on CNN this morning, we'll bring you the latest from the massive protests rocking Israel, as outrage over the killings of six hostages Gaza spills over into cities nationwide. 
 
Plus, both campaigns are making a push for organized labor to back their candidate.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  Let's not pay too much attention to the polls. Let's know like labor always does, we are out here running like we are the underdog in this race because we know what we are fighting for.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)