Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Supreme Court May Announce At Least One Opinion Tomorrow As US Waits For Word On Trump Ballot Case; Diplomatic Source: Ceasefire Agreement Unlikely Within 48 Hours; Biden Prepares For High Stakes State Of The Union Address. Aired 3-4p ET

Aired March 03, 2024 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:00:51]
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN HOST: All right, everyone. Thanks for joining me today. I'm Omar Jimenez, in for Fredricka Whitfield.
 
We start with breaking news. The Supreme Court announcing it may hand down a new ruling tomorrow. There is growing speculation that justices could weigh in on Colorado's decision to remove former President Donald Trump from the ballot.
 
Now, voters in that state are set to head to the polls this week for the Super Tuesday primary. Colorado challenged Trump's presidential eligibility under the Constitution's 14th Amendment Insurrectionist Clause. So here now for more on this breaking news, former US Attorney, Harry Litman.
 
Now, harry, thanks for jumping on with us.
 
HARRY LITMAN, FORMER US ATTORNEY: Sure.
 
JIMENEZ: We don't yet know officially what this ruling will be on by the Supreme Court, but why does it make sense to you that this is what the justices could rule on tomorrow?
 
LITMAN: You know, Omar, it is a cloistered and very traditional institution. So when they do things a little different, it really stands out here.
 
There are two things they've done different. First, they've made an abrupt announcement, we're going to release opinions Monday. Typically, they would have said the last time they were on the bench that this is the next time we will announce opinions. Second, they are not going to be there. It is not one of their scheduled hearing date. And that too, is quite unusual for the release of opinions.
 
So those are pretty glaring facts and departures from normal practice and you add to that that March 5th is Super Tuesday, as well as the date in Colorado and their desire perhaps to clear up any uncertainty before voters go to the polls, and it all states a very strong, you're right, of course we won't know until 10:00 AM. But a very strong case that tomorrow the Colorado opinion is coming. JIMENEZ: And look, throughout the appeals process, we knew there were efforts to try and get this resolved before the actual primary day, which again, is on Tuesday, and this also has implications for other states that have tried and in some cases failed already to get Trump kicked off the ballot because of the 14th Amendment Insurrectionist Clause, but I'm curious just from your perspective, based on what you've seen from these arguments, how do you think justices will rule tomorrow, if again this is what they are ruling on.
 
LITMAN: You know, I was at -- right. I was at the oral argument and it seemed quite clear to me and to most observers, they are going to reverse Colorado. They are going to say Trump remains on the ballot and you're exactly right, there is a whole bevy of states, this influences including Illinois just a couple of days ago said, he is off the ballot, but well wait to see what the Supreme Court says.
 
So I think they're looking to clarify, especially in Colorado, but really across the country and bring an end to what has been a very interesting, but I think ultimately not productive challenge, or it is not going to succeed to his remaining on the ballot based on his activities as of January 6th.
 
JIMENEZ: And you know, what's interesting about this is, again, if this ends up being the case, this would be an example of the supreme court ruling in a timely fashion in  regards to the politics of the election. We know in regards to claims for his presidential immunity of things -- of what he was doing -- that ruling is pushed back to April as we understand, which could then throw off the timeliness of any sort of trial for those particular claims.
 
And I'm curious for you just because we have so many legal cases and delays and delays and appeals and appeals that are happening, I mean, how much more complicated could we get at this point? And does the Supreme Court take timeliness into consideration when making rulings of these magnitudes?
 
LITMAN: You know, it is a great question because they certainly seem to be doing it here. They could have taken the stance we are indifferent to what is happening in the political process, but obviously, if they're doing it tomorrow, it is with an eye on Super Tuesday and you're exactly right about the immunity case.
 
They've issued a schedule that is expedited, but nowhere near the sort of warp speed of this, of previous cases, like the Nixon case, like Bush v. Gore.
 <br>[15:05:10]
 
So they can do it quickly when they want and they know its exigent. They are not slow walking the immunity case, but they're not going so fast either, and the weeks tick off in ways that as we pointed out, everyone did last week, really has implications for whether that case will be heard in 2024.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. We will see. Harry Litman, appreciate you jumping on short notice for us. Always appreciate the insight. LITMAN: Thanks so much. Have a good day.
 
JIMENEZ: Of course. We are also following key developments in the Middle East.
 
Right now, a delegation from Hamas is in Cairo for urgent ceasefire talks. Now, Israel has not sent a delegation, but the US says Israel has basically accepted a six-week ceasefire proposal in Gaza, but a highly placed diplomatic source is telling CNN that a deal is unlikely to be reached in the next 48 hours because of a few key issues that are still outstanding.
 
CNN's Jeremy Diamond is in Tel Aviv for us. So Jeremy, just what are some of the issues that are holding up an agreement here?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Omar, listen as the Hamas delegation arrived in Cairo today, there was some sense that Israel would also send a delegation there as well. But an Israeli official telling us this evening that the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, decided not to do so because Hamas has refused so far to provide a list of the hostages who would be released under this initial agreement.
 
They also say that they are still waiting for confirmation of the number of Palestinian prisoners that Hamas would be demanding in exchange for the release of those Israeli hostages being held in Gaza. That's how the United States and Israel broadly see the impediments to making more progress going forward. They basically see the ball as being very much in Hamas' court.
 
But a senior Hamas member telling us, offering a different perspective tonight, telling us that they believe that the major sticking points going forward are questions about whether or not a permanent ceasefire can be agreed to as part of these talks. Questions about the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza and also allowing displaced Palestinians to return to their homes in Northern Gaza.
 
So all of these issues need to be worked out and we know that we are very much on a time crunch. The Holy Muslim holiday of Ramadan begins in a week, and that has been laid out as kind of the deadline for these talks to see if a deal can happen. Otherwise, Israel has vowed that it will press ahead with an offensive into Gaza's southernmost city of Rafah.
 
But in the background of all of this, we are getting a clearer picture of the dire humanitarian situation inside of Gaza. We have seen as hunger in particular has become a major issue in Northern Gaza, 15 children have now died of dehydration and malnutrition, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health.
 
And Kamal Adwan Hospital in Northern Gaza is warning that six more children could soon face the same fate if urgent action is not taken. And so, you're getting a whole host of  humanitarian agencies calling for more to be done to get aid into Gaza. In particular, allowing aid to get directly into Northern Gaza. Right now, there are just no crossing points allowing aid to go directly from Israel into the northern part of the Gaza Strip and that is one of the enormous challenges of getting aid there. In light of that, we are seeing the United States and other countries stepping up their efforts to airdrop aid.
 
Yesterday, the US conducting an airdrop with three military aircraft directly into the Gaza Strip. But that is costly, it is inefficient. It can also be risky. Aid agencies say the US would be better positioned to focus on pressuring Israel to allow more aid directly by land.
 
Hundreds of trucks are needed to alleviate the situation in Northern Gaza -- Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, we will see how that develops.
 
Jeremy Diamond in Tel Aviv, thank you so much.
 
Now the Israel-Hamas War and the US push for a ceasefire will likely be a major topic on Thursday when President Biden delivers his annual State of the Union speech in a high-stakes primetime address.
 
And tomorrow, Vice President Harris will meet with Israeli War Cabinet member, Benny Gantz at the White House, and as the administration continues to push for a ceasefire.
 
For more, I'm going to bring in CNN White House reporter, Priscilla Alvarez.
 
Now, Priscilla, it does appear Biden may not be able to tout a ceasefire deal at his State of the Union Address, but what can we expect to hear from him?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, Omar, advisers would certainly like to see that because of course, the president has been under immense pressure from voters who have arrived at some of his campaign appearances, protesting and calling for a ceasefire and from Democrats who also want to see a temporary ceasefire in Gaza.
 
This has been something that has consumed a lot of the president's time. And so it is unclear to your point, whether they can actually reach that agreement by Thursday, but that would certainly be something that would be to their advantage to tout if it were the case.
 <br>[15:10:01]
 
In absence of that though, the president is expected to lay out his vision for his domestic agenda, and also reflect on his accomplishments so far, that includes, for example, talking about economic populism and higher taxes for corporations and the wealthy, as well as border security, lowering healthcare costs, reproductive rights and preserving democracy, trying to draw a stark contrast from the Republican frontrunner former President Donald Trump. Now, this is also an important moment for the president to do this, not only because it is the State of the Union, but it is probably his biggest TV audience until November, so he can appeal to more voters and try to make the case amid those sagging approval rating.
 
So this is something that the president and his advisers are working around the clock on while he is in Camp David this weekend. They took a similar approach last year and he is rehearsing. They are putting the final touches on this, but it is clearly a very highly anticipated address amid the conflicts abroad, and also as the president tries to reassure voters and his base that what he is doing on the domestic front is helping them.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, Priscilla Alvarez, thank you so much.
 
With me now to talk about all of this and more is Mara Liasson. She is a national political correspondent for NPR.
 
Short of announcing a ceasefire or an end to the war in Gaza, what can the president say in his State of the Union address to ease some of that mounting pressure from some of his fellow Democrats, urging him to change course on the war.
 
MARA LIASSON, NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT, NPR: Yes, this is an issue that has caused deep, deep divisions inside the Democratic coalition. You saw that big uncommitted vote in Michigan. Young people, Arab-American voters in the key battleground state of Michigan are saying they want Biden to change the policy now. If he can't announce a ceasefire, he can certainly show that he is trying to put more and more pressure on the Netanyahu government to conduct the war in Gaza differently and also get to a ceasefire as soon as possible.
 
This is the best thing for Joe Biden's re-election campaign, would be for the war in Gaza to be in the rearview mirror and it is not.
 
JIMENEZ: And last week, I mean, we saw more than a hundred thousand Democratic voters in Michigan. They sent Biden a pretty strong message about their unhappiness with his handling of the Israeli war by voting uncommitted. And yesterday, his wife, First Lady Jill Biden, got a rough -- a pretty rough reception at a speech in Arizona. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(PROTESTER shouting.)
 
DR. JILL BIDEN, FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES: We are going to need this moment.
 
(PEOPLE protesting.)
 
PROTESTER: Your husband support the genocide of the Palestinian people.
 
Free Palestine.
 
(PROTESTER shouting.)
 
JILL BIDEN: And so, he does all this while expecting a new baby herself, so he is just --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: And we've also seen the president face similar receptions at other campaign stops. But bottom line, how concerned should the Biden campaign and Democrats be about the war costing Biden support, especially with Arab, Muslim, and even some young voters.
 
LIASSON: I think they should be very concerned. I think they are very concerned.
 
What you saw there has become a kind of feature of Biden campaign events. Hecklers come. Pro-Palestinian demonstrators come. What is unclear is how many of the people who voted uncommitted, for example, in Michigan would stay home, vote for a third-party candidate, or maybe even vote for Donald Trump as a protest.
 
So this is something that really matters. He cannot win re-election without winning the state of Michigan. It is kind of the linchpin of the three blue wall states -- Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan. It happens to have the highest number of Arab-American voters, and it is a big problem for them.
 
They're trying to address it, but this is not completely in Biden's control. Bibi Netanyahu is -- he is the one in control here and he doesn't want to stop conducting the war the way Israel is conducting it.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, and considering Biden took the state by around 150,000 votes...
 
LIASSON: Yes.
 
JIMENEZ: ... in 2020, and then it is over a hundred thousand voters uncommitted, you see a picture.
 
LIASSON: Now, some of them will come back, of course.
 
JIMENEZ: Exactly.
 
LIASSON: But don't know how many. Yes.
 
JIMENEZ: Exactly. Exactly.
 
Now, look, staying on that front, but for Vice President Harris, she is going to be meeting with Israeli Minister Benny Gantz tomorrow at the White House.
 
Now, as the administration continues to push for a ceasefire, what do you make of Vice President Harris taking on a more high profile role in the administration particularly in high-stakes talks such as these in recent weeks. LIASSON: Well, what would be the best thing for the Biden White House is if she could come out of that conversation with Benny Gantz and say, the Israelis have agreed to do X or the ceasefire is closer for these reasons or we have some kind of progress on releasing the hostages. That would be the best thing for him.
 
I don't think it is Harris herself, it is the results that she can get.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes. And look, Thursday is going to be the major test. It is the State of the Union speech. It also gives Biden a chance to showcase what he has done in some ways really, a moment to jumpstart his campaign and try to convince voters to give him another term in office.
 <br>[15:15:09]
 
From your perspective, what is at stake for him as he tries to make the case that he deserves to be re-elected?
 
LIASSON: Oh, everything is at stake. This is the highest profile set piece that an incumbent president gets running for re-election. The State of the Union address, biggest audience ever, the most -- the bottom line is that he can show people that he looks vigorous. He can try to address those widespread, very deep concerns among Democrats and Republicans that he is too old to be an effective in the job, but the big question is, even if he performs really well on Thursday, remember last year's State of the Union, he was great, vigorous.
 
He ad-libbed, he played off the House Republicans as a foil. He could do all of those things. But last year he did not get a bump after the State of the Union address.
 
JIMENEZ: All right.
 
LIASSON: So, but he has to do as much as he can.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. We will see -- we will see what happens.
 
Maria Liasson, thank you. I mispronounced that earlier. Thanks for still being nice --
 
LIASSON: You did great just then now. You did great.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. Yes. Thanks for still giving us some great insight. Really appreciate it.
 
LIASSON: Thanks a lot.
 
JIMENEZ: Thanks for your time. Of course.
 
All right, and a quick programming note, Super Tuesday, 16 races, one consequential day. Don't miss our special coverage. It begins Tuesday at 6:00 PM on CNN and streaming on Max.
 
Still to come today though, wildfires still raging at the Texas Panhandle as local ranchers grapple with the devastating loss of land and cattle.
 
And college basketball legend, Caitlin Clark making history today. Her incredible achievement, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:21:21]
 
JIMENEZ: All right, everybody. Big breaking news: A historic moment on the hardwood.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SPORTSCASTER: For college basketball history.
 
(CHEERING)
 
SPORTSCASTER #1: He another foul shot. Caitlin Clark becomes the all- time leading scorer in major college basketball history.
 
SPORTSCASTER #2: Three-point line. She got to go in on both sides.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: The Iowa Hawkeyes' Caitlin Clark just became the all-time leading scorer in all of Division One college basketball history, breaking the record held by Pete Maravich for more than 50 years.
 
Here with us now, CNN sports analyst and sports columnist for "USA Today," Christine Brennan.
 
All right, Christine, what is your take on this major moment in not just college sports, but just sports. Period.
 
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, CNN SPORTS ANALYST: Yes. Sports history, Omar, yes. Well, the person who now has the most points in the history of major college basketball is a woman and Omar, I never thought I would be able to say those words.
 
This is up to me right up there with Billie Jean King beating Bobby Riggs back in 1973. The women's soccer team winning the World Cup in 1999, the packed Rose Bowl with Brandi Chastain and Briana Scurry, Mia Hamm, that group and what they meant to the nation. Venus and Serena and that incredible sister rivalry that went on and on in major tennis tournaments, and this. These are the stepping stones in women's sports.
 
You know, Title Nine was signed by Richard Nixon in June of '72, so we are approaching the 52nd anniversary of that important law that opened the floodgates for girls and women to play sports and, this is the result, Caitlin Clark and the fact that in a sport that you know well, there has been focus on men for generations.
 
We are now talking about a woman. We are not -- you know, we say bracket singular when there are, of course, are two brackets, and I think, Caitlin is having a lot of us look at this sport that is such an American institution in a different way.
 
And of course, the dads and daughters and so many other pieces of this, Omar, is truly is an historic cultural moment in American history to celebrate, for sure.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes, and look, you went to Northwestern. I went to Northwestern, so I'm going of course incorporate some Northwestern to this.
 
I've got a few career stats from my time playing in Northwestern and I am emphasizing few. Look at the difference here. Seven points, five rebounds, three assists on the career and then Caitlin Clark, you see the incredible amount that she has got there.
 
I just want to point out, I averaged two minutes a game, so maybe I would have gotten more, but nowhere close to this.
 
How difficult is it to accomplish what Clark has been able to do? How can we put this into perspective for folks?
 
BRENNAN: Omar, I think you need a little more eligibility and the maybe there is a shot for you. And of course, you know, Go Cats always and Medill as well, so proud of you.
 
You know, the eyes of the nation have been on her over these  many months and she has handled herself beautifully. I mean, if you were to draw up a role model for girls and boys in our country and men and women, you'd pick her. You know, from the heartland.
 
So fun to watch and she has her moments with the refs and you putting her hand to her ear, you know, I hear you and hear the crowd roaring for her.
 
It is fun, but the serious stuff. Handling yourself beautifully, and just being an incredible role model and having guys who, Omar, might -- we know some of these guys. They might not be so in love with women's sports and might be a little -- you know, begrudge the success of women's sports.
 
So even this conversation about passing Pistol Pete who now are looking at her and saying, okay, I get it. It is okay that a woman now has this incredible record and it is wonderful to see because this is what we've created in this country, and the nation has fallen in love with it because of course of Title 9.
 <br>[15:25:21]
 
JIMENEZ: It has been incredible to see the trends in recent years. I mean, Sabrina Ionescu going to the New York Liberty, her high-profile run in the finals, and of course, the three-point contest against Steph Curry in the NBA all-star weekend, which was incredible and historic.
 
I want to shift real quick though to the NBA for a little bit, because we also saw another major milestone, this time with LeBron. Take a look. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SPORTSCASTER: ... ready to take a shot of this. James against Porter. Drives, Spence gets inside. It is good. It is 40,000 for LeBron James.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: I mean, that is also unbelieved. I remember I was in the arena with him, he broke Kareem's record. Now he is surpassing 40,000 career points.
 
What does this mean for not just his legacy, but the NBA's legacy of what he has been able to do over now, two decades?
 
BRENNAN: Well, longevity, right? He is turning 40 at the end of the year. And the fact is, as you know, Omar, very well, that he has just been such an excellent player. Four championships, three different teams, including bringing one to Cleveland, which of course, Northern Ohio, his home, and the charitable work that he does in Akron and Cleveland. It is extraordinary around the country.
 
And I think also, you know, I was just mentioning what a role model Caitlin Clark is, but what a role model LeBron James says.
 
You know, he was 18 years old. He is going into the NBA and that's really hard and we have seen a lot of people flame out in many sports, Olympic sports, you name it, and to see the success and the class and the grace that he has played with and as a role model for kids as well, extraordinary.
 
And 40,000 points, it is a number we've never seen before. He passed Kareem, as you said, a little bit more than a year ago. On he goes, and it is again, what a weekend in basketball and what a joyous story to be talking about in the midst of obviously so many other things in our world.
 
Sports gives us that great escape and Caitlin Clark and LeBron James are two of the best at that, for sure.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, and look I'm not going to get you in trouble and ask who the GOAT is after LeBron's milestone. We will save that for the next conversation. But right now, we've got two GOATs, Caitlin Clark and LeBron James, and I'll add a third, Christine Brennan, thank you so much for being with us.
 
BRENNAN: Right back at you. Thanks, Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: All right, everybody, Coming up, Nikki Haley is walking back her pledge to support Donald Trump if he is the GOP nominee. Her uphill battle ahead of Super Tuesday, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:32:11]
 
JIMENEZ: More than a dozen states will hold their primary contests on Super Tuesday and despite racking up losses to this point, including in her home state of South Carolina, Nikki Haley is vowing to stay in the nomination race against former President Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I've always said this needs to be competitive. As long as we are competitive, as long as we are showing that there is a place for us, I'm going to continue to fight. That's always been the case.
 
KRISTEN WELKER, NBC NEWS: Would you see yourself as competitive if you didn't win on Super Tuesday any state?
 
HALEY: Well, usually, you all are the ones that decide what's competitive and what's not.
 
So were going to continue to just keep pushing through.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: Joining me now to discuss is CNN's Eva McKend. She is traveling with the Haley campaign in Burlington, Vermont.
 
And I remember, Eva, you asked Nikki Haley herself, is there any state she can realistically win? Do you have any indication from them at this point that there is a state that they can win even on this Super Tuesday?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: You know, Omar, that is the key question. That is the main question and I still have not gotten a definitive answer from her campaign on that.
 
She is just charging forward, so she just wrapped up a rally here in Vermont. She is on to Maine and then Texas tomorrow. She also made a bit of news today by suggesting on "Meet the Press" that if she isn't ultimately the Republican nominee, she won't necessarily endorse former President Donald Trump.
 
Let's listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HALEY: I have always said that I have serious concerns about Donald Trump.
 
At the time of the debate, we had to take it to where would you support the nominee? And you had to, in order to get on that debate stage, you said yes.
 
The RNC is now not the same RNC. Now, it is Trump's daughter-in-law.
 
WELKER: So you're no longer bound by that pledge.
 
HALEY: No, I think I will make what decision I want to make.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) MCKEND: You know, Omar, this perhaps is not all that surprising because the RNC has all but abandoned her. They didn't stay neutral in this process, so she is now telegraphing that she does not feel beholden to this pledge to necessarily get behind Trump.
 
The problem for Haley is that this is ultimately a delegate fight, a delegate battle. Here in Vermont, in Massachusetts, where she was over the weekend, in Maine where she is headed shortly, you know, these are winner take all states here in New England. That means that if Trump gets above 50 percent in any of these states, that means he gets all of the delegates.
 
She perhaps could win any of these states and get all of the delegates, but ultimately, this is a delegate fight and many political observers say that the former president could have enough delegates to wrap up this contest by the middle of this month -- Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: Of course, and yes, as we know, more than a third up for grabs right here and many of them, winner take all states.
 
Eva McKend, thank you so much.
 
When we come back, thousands of cattle could be lost in the aftermath of the largest wildfire in Texas history. We are going to tell you how local authorities are dealing with the devastation, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:39:52]
 
JIMENEZ: Some 9.5 million people across the Central US are under red flag weather alerts right now, including the Texas Panhandle where the largest wildfire in state history is still burning.
 <br>[15:40:04]
 
The Smokehouse Creek Fire has killed at least two people and thousands of cattle. It has also destroyed some 500 structures since it broke look out six days ago, and it is still just 15 percent contained.
 
Meteorologist, Allison Chinchar has the latest on the challenge facing firefighters.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: One more day of red flag warnings and another day of fire risk, not just for Texas, but you can see here, over half a dozen states looking at the potential for that increased fire threat today.
 
Now, the three main fires we have been focused on the Texas Panhandle here, not really making much improvements so far, the Smokehouse Creek, but through the weekend, the other two fires we did see at least somewhat of an increase in the containment numbers and that is what you like to see.
 
Now here is a before image of that larger fire in Northern Texas. This is what it looked like roughly a few weeks ago. Now, fast forward to today, you can clearly see that burn scar area from where that fire has spread across the northern tier of the panhandle.
 
Now for the rest of the day today, the elevated and critical fire threat areas, this is where were going to see most of that focus of those very strong winds. The hot temperatures and the extremely dry air and yes, that does include areas of the panhandle of Texas, as well as Oklahoma.
 
Here you can see as we go through the day Sunday, those wins do start to tick back up, 30, 40, even as much as 45 miles per hour.
 
But finally, Monday and Tuesday, we do start to see those wind beginning to calm back down and that will allow those firefighters to hopefully make some advancement in those containment numbers.
 
Humidity levels expected to stay low today. We will see at least a little bit of improvement late Monday, but the big improvement comes Tuesday and especially Wednesday of this week, that will also help the firefighters tried to make some advancement in containing that fire.
 
But in terms of actual  moisture, rain, or snow or anything like that, the bulk of it is going to either remain east or farther north of where they really need to see that moisture.
 
JIMENEZ: All right, Allison Chinchar, thank you.
 
As we mentioned, the so-called Smokehouse Creek Fire has been burning for nearly a week, scorching more than a million acres in the Texas Panhandle, which is home to 85 percent of the state's cattle industry.
 
Now the blaze has already killed thousands of cattle and other livestock while destroying crops, power lines, and equipment.
 
Here to discuss the impact is Hemphill County extension agent, Andy Holloway. So Andy, I really appreciate you taking the time.
 
How are the ranchers that you've spoken to and heard from? How are they holding out?
 
ANDY HOLLOWAY, HEMPHILL COUNTY AGRILIFE EXTENSION AGENT: Well, Omar, first of all, thank you to you and your colleagues and CNN for giving me a chance to share about our situation. It is a very difficult situation. Our ranchers and our homeowners are hurting deeply. We've had many wildfires in many years in the past, but we've never had one that's caused near this amount of destruction.
 
So, the answer to your question or the short answer is, it is going to take a long time to get over this and our people here are still hurting greatly.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, I mean, look, I think some people might look from the outside in and say it is only a few hundred structures that have burned. A lot of this is in maybe not so populated areas, but the impact of the fires on livestock, crops, wildlife has been really, really enormous here and peoples' livelihoods, I want to make sure I get that in there, too.
 
To you, what is the impact on the livestock, crops and wildlife that you have seen to this point? Just put it in perspective for folks who maybe aren't familiar with the Texas Panhandle and don't really understand what you all are going through.
 
HOLLOWAY: Well, thank you for asking that question. You know, 28 percent of the nation's beef supply comes from where I am, the Texas Panhandle and, I am in a county that's called Hemphill County, Canadian, Texas county seat. It is about 30 miles by 30 miles. The county is perfectly square, so 900 square miles and a little over 600,000 acres in our county alone, over 450,000 acres has burned up.
 
And the way this affects the nation and affects people is the cattle that these ranchers have greatly been burned up and so this is going to hurt our beef supply, going forward in the nation to go along with other catastrophes around the nation, a lot of major droughts that's been going on the last 10 years in the west, that's going to diminish our beef cattle supply.
 
You know, one of the things, Omar that people need to understand is are cattlemen, they are the best stewards over their land and their animals of any people on planet earth and these cattle are not just cattle. They are like family to our ranchers.
 <br>[15:45:12]
 
And so the ranchers feed their cattle before they feed themselves and it is a real tragedy for our ranchers. It is not only their income and their way of life, but it is going to take maybe decades to get over this and it is going to greatly affect our rural way of life here.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, yes, and that is what we have some reporters on the ground, that's what one rancher told one of our reporters that this isn't going to snap back overnight. This is going to take a long time to rebuild from.
 
And just before we go, because I want to make sure we get this in. For people watching and seeing the images and listening to what you're saying, how can people help here?
 
HOLLOWAY: Omar, thanks for asking that question.
 
We have a 501 (c) (3) under our Canadian Volunteer Fire Department here, where people can send in their contributions to P.O. Box 300, Canadian Texas, 79014 and make your checkout to the Canadian Volunteer Fire Department and in the memo part of your check, please be sure to write "Rancher Wildfire Relief Fund" and I would greatly appreciate people.
 
Omar, we had a fire in 2017 and we had some little four-aged kids in Kentucky that sent $9.00 to our fund, so no contribution is too small or too great, we need it all and we would appreciate people's assistance.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes, well, Andy Holloway, appreciate you taking the time to share with us. I know it has been incredibly busy and hopefully, people send what you all need your way. Thank you.
 
HOLLOWAY: We thank you, Omar. We're going to work hard to get over this and we appreciate your prayers.
 
JIMENEZ: Of course. Of course. All right, talk to you soon.
 
You can also, for people watching, you can check out cnn.com/impact to help as well.
 
Still to come, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas is pushing back on Texas Governor Abbott -- the Texas Governor Greg Abbott's demand that President Biden use executive authority to control the border crisis. What he told CNN, just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:51:51]
 
JIMENEZ: There is more fallout from last week's dueling border visits by President Biden and former President Trump. Now, the Biden Cabinet official bearing the brunt of GOP criticism for the crisis is now pushing back.
 
Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas says Republicans calling for executive action by the president, including Texas Governor Greg Abbott are flat out wrong. Mayorkas sat down with CNN's Dana Bash. Here is part of that interview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR AND POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: That bipartisan solution is tabled, and I think that's probably a generous way to put it right now because of deep Republican opposition.
 
Given that, CNN is reporting last week that the administration is considering executive action that would block migrants claiming asylum if they illegally cross into the United States.
 
Can you tell us exactly what's on the table?
 
ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS, US HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: Dana, we consider options at all times. That's the responsibility of good government, but an administrative action is no substitute for an enduring solution.
 
When we take administrative actions as we have done a number of times, we are challenged in court. Legislation is the enduring solution. And by the way, we cannot, through administrative action plus the United States Border Patrol, Customs and Border Protection by 1,500 personnel like this legislation proposes.
 
We cannot through administrative action add 4,300 asylum officers so that we can work through the backlog and turn the system into an efficient and well working one, which it hasn't been for more than three decades. BASH: I want you to listen to what Texas Governor Greg Abbott told me on this show about the idea of whether or not legislation is needed. Take a listen.
 
GOV. GREG ABBOTT (R-TX): The fact of the matter is, there are laws on the books passed by Congress of the United States right now that authorize the executive branch to deny illegal entry.
 
The president does not need new laws. The president needs a backbone to make sure that he enforces the immigration laws that are already on the books.
 
MAYORKAS: Couldn't be more wrong. Couldn't be more wrong. And as a matter of fact, former President Trump tried to close the border and was enjoined in the courts and never saw the light of day.
 
This coming from an individual who is purposefully refusing to coordinate, communicate, collaborate with other officials, and trying to wreak havoc in other cities and states across the country. That is not a model of governance. And he couldn't be more wrong.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: And that's an issue that is not going anywhere in this election cycle for the Biden administration or from the minds of voters.
 
Thank you to Dana for that interview.
 
Also, lies corruption, bribery, prostitution. I am talking about a new CNN original series. Don't worry. "United States of Scandal," CNN anchor and chief Washington correspondent, Jake Tapper dives into some of the most sensational political controversies and talked to some of the most infamous political figures of the modern era to separate truth from spin.
 
Here is a preview.
 <br>[15:55:02]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Thanks Omar, tonight were going to bring you the story of Eliot Spitzer, the hard-charging sheriff of Wall Street who rode a wave of unmatched popularity to the New York Governor's Mansion before it was revealed that Spitzer also known as Client 9 had been soliciting sex workers in a prostitution ring, bringing his time in office to a screeching halt.
 
I talked to members of Spitzer's inner circle, including his former Lieutenant Governor David Paterson, who had this insight into Spitzer's thinking.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAPPER (voice over): In a telltale sign of his hubris, Spitzer was so confident he would become governor, he started staffing his administration years before the election. DAVID PATERSON, FORMER NEW YORK LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR: One time, Spitzer said to me, there is someone I'd like to interview to be lieutenant governor, but I wouldn't want to be rejected.
 
Now, I realized he is talking about me and he was right. I didn't want to be lieutenant governor. And at the time, Hillary Clinton was the junior senator from New York. So I said to Spitzer, if Hillary Clinton becomes president, you pick the new senator. I would be your guy.
 
And spitzer said something to me at that point. It was very prophetic. Stay out of trouble and you're my guy. And all I can say to that was physician, heal thyself.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAPPER: Clearly, Spitzer should have heeded his own advice. What adds to the hypocrisy here is that one of his very first acts in office as governor was to pass one of the toughest sex trafficking laws in the entire United States.
 
We are going to have more on how hubris and ego took down the man who was very well possibly going to become a president of the United States. That's tonight on "United States of Scandal" -- Omar.
 
JIMENEZ: All right, thank you, Jake.
 
Be sure to tune in, the all-new episode of the CNN Original Series, "United States of Scandal" with Jake Tapper airs tonight at nine Eastern and Pacific only on CNN. We will be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)