Headline: Inside Politics
Sub-headline: Dana Bash To Interview VP Harris And Gov. Walz Tomorrow; Harris & Trump Make Plays For Swiftie Voters; Harris & Biden To Campaign In Pittsburgh On Labor Day; Foo Fighters, Beyonce And Others Tell Trump To Stop Playing Their Songs. Aired 12:30-1p ET

Aired August 28, 2024 - 12:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:30:06]
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: What would be your advice for her at this key moment? Obviously, whatever she says is just going to make a ton of news. She has not done this type of sit- down yet since becoming a candidate. You're in the room -- if you are in the room, what qwould you be telling her?
 
JAMAL SIMMONS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Manu, it is important to remember that when you are choosing to do an interview, you are not just doing it to make Dana Bash happier or Manu. You're doing it because you think it is -- you think that it is going to advance your topic and someone is going to advance your campaign. 
 
You got an idea, so it is important to see that she is doing this camp -- she is doing this event while she is in Georgia, right? Down in Savannah. I went to college in Georgia (inaudible). I know Shermichael did also at Morehouse College -- I just dropped that dime right there.
 
(LAUGH)
 
SIMMONS: But it is also important -- it is important for her to speak to those rural counties where she's going to be speaking and that bus tour is going to be going through because if you're in Georgia, you can win that state by just increasing the African-American performance and Democratic performance in enough of those states to shrink the margins that you're going to lose with those counties and then blow out the numbers that land in the metro market.
 
So, I'm sure she's doing that there to show people she cares about those rural counties. And then also, they're talking about housing and creating 3 million more housing units over the course of her administration. So she's got an idea to push, so I think as long as she's talking about that, that is going to give that interview some punch that I think the campaign will benefit from because she's moving it forward.
 
RAJU: What do you make, Shermichael, of her decision to sit down with her running mate and again, give an interview with Tim Walz, not just do it one-on-one?
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: For the first interview, I think it makes sense, right? Maybe you're a little worried, how will she do one-on-one? She hasn't really set down with anyone since become the top of the ticket for Democrats. You want to get her sort of comfortable back into the swing of things. 
 
So I methodically get it. But it is going to give Republicans the ammunition to say, well, wait a minute here. When is she going to do what our guy is doing, which is taking a ton of questions from adversarial journalists who are constantly attacking him on every single issue, to showcase that she can lead the country forward. And I suspect that that will come.
 
I want to touch on something quickly though. I think Jamal had an excellent analysis on why the vice president is focusing on Georgia, particularly the rural parts of Georgia. We oftentimes dismiss the fact that there are a lot of people of color who live in those rural areas. 
 
And if you can get those low propensity rural area black voters to turn out, it certainly makes a difference marginally speaking. Does it mean she'll win the state? Maybe not, but it does make the state more competitive, which means you make your opponent have to spend more resources there.
 
RAJU: Which explains a big reason why she is going there today --
 
SINGLETON: Absolutely.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
RAJU: -- bus tour through (ph) tomorrow they believe. Clearly, agree with that analysis as well. Now, I want to turn both of your attention to one of the last big interviews that Kamala Harris did do, at least (inaudible) she first started in this administration, back in June of 2021, talking to Lester Holt of NBC News, something that has Republicans still talking about to this day.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LESTER HOLT, ANCHOR, NBC NEWS: Do you have any plans to visit the border?
 
KAMALA HARRIS, (D) VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I'm hearing in Guatemala today. At some point, we are going to the border. We've been to the border. So this whole thing about the border, we have been to the border. We've been to the border.
 
HOLT: You haven't been to the border?
 
HARRIS: And I haven't been to Europe. And I don't understand the point that you're making. My focus is dealing with the root causes of migration. There may be some who think that that is not important, but it is my firm belief that if we care about what is happening at the border, we better care about the root causes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) RAJU: Now, Jamal, you are not with the Harris (inaudible) at that time, but you came in afterwards. When you look back at that moment, that coup (ph) was not one of her best moments. Republicans are still talking about it. What is your takeaway from that and what lessons do you think she has learned from that episode?
 
SIMMONS: It wasn't one of her best moments and I think if you go back and look at some of my moments from a year ago when I first got back on CNN, I wouldn't want to have to answer for those either. I made my own mistakes. Here is the thing, that was three years ago. And if all of us are judged by something we did in the first six months of our job, we probably never would be able to move forward. 
 
In the last three years, she had also talked to 'Face the Nation.' She's been on 'Meet The Press.' She's been on '60 Minutes." She's done all these other really big high-profile interviews, but nobody wants to play those clips. I think this is just Republican point to try to make some argument, but I want -- and just last point, Shermichael made a point a minute about Donald Trump during contentious interviews.
 
I'm not sure where he's doing these contentious interviews. He's on Fox News, right? He's talking to Dr. Phil. These aren't contentious interviews. So now that the vice president is going to talk to CNN, I want to see Donald Trump on CNN. I want to see Donald Trump on some of the big major networks, talking to them 'The New York Times,' talking to some of the major outlet. I don't think he's doing that. I don't think he has the guts to do it, but we'll see if he does.
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
SINGLETON: I definitely don't agree with my dear Morehouse (inaudible) Jamal on that one. I think Donald Trump actually enjoys the back-and- forth with journalist who challenges him. I think its --
 
RAJU: I think he's right, he has talked to Dr. Phil. He goes --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SINGLETON: Manu, I think a part of the strategy there is to reach a different sector of low propensity voters, specifically men under the age of 40 and 18. And I get that strategy. I think you're going to see him sit down with some journalists, maybe at CNN for a town hall, something we typically do here as you get closer to the race. 
 
However, I think the reason Republicans keep jumping on that particular interview is because what it suggests is that the vice president doesn't necessarily have a good enough command over certain topics that are critical for the American people, such as immigration and such as the economy.
 
One of the reasons why this interview tomorrow with Dana Bash is going to be so important for so many voters, does the vice president answer why she's had this transformation on critical issues from fracking, from wanting to provide healthcare to illegal immigrants to (inaudible) wait a minute here, maybe we should look at something different, from supporting the police to wanting to defund the police. I mean, there are a litany of other issues that Republicans have pointed out to say she's a moderated on this. But why?
 
RAJU: Yeah.
 
SINGLETON: Is it because she just wants to win, or has she actually seen some data that suggests, wait a minute here, being vice president for three-and-a-half years has taught me that I need to govern a little different.
 
RAJU: It will be fascinating to see how she responds to changing her positions here. And Jamal, I got to end it there. I'm so sorry.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
RAJU: I'm sorry. You guys will have plenty of time to (inaudible) this out.
 
SIMMONS: Very quickly. Kamala Harris is part of a coalition that goes from AOC and Bernie, all the way over to Liz Cheney. That means sometimes there are going to be some issues that things are going to change on. I think she's leading a coalition that is going to be wide and governing. Republicans will try to govern, and not just make (inaudible).
 
RAJU: And we'll see if she says that. We will see if she says that, if she says what you said. All right. Jamal Simmons and Shermichael Singleton, thank you so much for both for joining me. And coming up, is Trump or ready for it? Democratic Taylor Swift fans organized to make sure America doesn't vote red this November, with several special guests to help out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, (D-NY): (Inaudible) is a relaxing thought, but for Donald Trump it is not.
 
CAROLE KING, SINGER: I'm just going to shake, shake, shake, shake. I shake it off, shake it off.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:41:40]
 
RAJU: Taylor swift has yet to endorse in the presidential race, but that does not mean the two campaigns aren't doing everything they can to win over her massive and young fan base. 'Swifties for Kamala' hosted Democratic lawmakers on a kickoff call last night to speak about their anti-hero Donald Trump and their superstar Kamala Harris.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN, (D-MA): Do you know how to be your most authentic, most joyful selves? And that's what the Kamala Harris campaign is all about.
 
SEN. ED MARKEY, (D-MA): Instead of clowning about the release of reputation Taylor's version, we should all be pounding on doors to get out the vote.
 
REP. CHRIS DELUZIO (D-PA): If Taylor's music gives you that jolt, gives you that sense of community, which I know that it does for so many on (ph) here, channel that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Now, the group is not affiliated with Swift, but our fans mobilized anyway to raise $138,000 last night in donations, of course, $19.89. My next guest was on that call, Congressman Chris Deluzio, who is a Pennsylvania Democrat. Congressman, thank you so much for joining me today. 
 
So obviously, Taylor Swift fans, they make up a large number of young people, my daughter included, although she is not of voting age. But Trump is trying to tap into that same base of young voters. He's posting about Swifties for Trump and the like. So, what is your level of concern about Trump successfully tapping into this voting bloc?
 
DELUZIO: I don't think he's going to. I think the numbers speak for themselves. You saw the call last night, more than 30,000 people I think were on that thing, raised as you said more than $130,000. And there is real energy, enthusiasm, and look, what I heard and what I continue to hear, not just on calls like that, but all over my district, people want to have their freedom protected. They want to have a shot to afford their life and Democrats up and down the ticket are offering real answers there.
 
Donald Trump is completely the opposite for so many folks. He has attacked women's reproductive freedom, did nothing but give handouts to big corporations and the ultra-rich. That is not something that I think most young people have any interest in and certainly not folks who are fired up to take that enthusiasm and do the work that you saw on a call like last night.
 
RAJU: So, Taylor Swift has not endorsed any candidate yet, though before the 2020 election, she said she did not like Trump. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Taylor Swift comes out against Trump.
 
TAYLOR SWIFT, SINGER: I don't care if they write that. I'm sad that I didn't two years ago, but I can't change that. I'm saying right now that this is something that I know is right. And you guys, I need to be on the right side of history. And if he doesn't win, then at least I -- at least I tried. I need to do this. I need you to just -- dad, I need you to forgive me for doing it, because I'm doing it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: So, what would be the impact, Congressman, if she decided not to endorse a candidate and sat out this election?
 
DELUZIO: I don't know that (ph) much of an impact in that direction because I think the facts and the nature of these candidates speak for themselves. When you've got someone like Donald Trump who didn't just take away women's freedom, didn't just pass tax handouts to big corporations, but actively tried to overthrow our democracy, rip our constitution to shreds, I think he's going to lose.
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
And I say that as a guy who represents the competitive districts in western Pennsylvania. I see the enthusiasm on the ground. I saw it with Governor Walz and Vice President Harris in Beaver County, in the West Hills of Allegheny County last week or so. There is real energy to make sure that Donald Trump gets nowhere near the White House and the nuclear codes ever again.
 
RAJU: So, let's turn to the Harris impact down ticket. You mentioned that you are one of the party's frontliners, most vulnerable members, you hail from a swing district in western PA. What do you -- would you consider yourself a Harris Democrat?
 
DELUZIO: I consider myself a Western Pennsylvania, a rust belt Democrat, and I'm doing everything I can to make sure that Donald Trump doesn't win the White House, to make sure that we got a Democratic majority in Congress. I've been in Congress now almost two years. And Manu, you cover it, you know Republican majority has bungled this thing. They have gone from crisis to crisis of their own making. They've barely kept the government funding -- the government funded.
 
They only got it done because Democrats were willing to do what was necessary to govern. I know there are Republicans who are happy to be back in the minority, which I think is where we are going to send them, where the American people are going to send them in November. They have not been up to the task of governing and it is the basic things like funding our government, avoiding a shutdown. And as you know, every chance they've had with the spending bills, they're tacking on anti-abortion language --
 
RAJU: But, I -- Congressman, just to be --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
DELUZIO: I didn't hear you say if you thought you were a Harris Democrat? Is it because she -- does she not align with voters in your district?
 
RAJU: Well, look, I think most people don't define themselves in what kind of Democrat they are based on a single candidate and so that's certainly not what I've done. I don't really where a label, but I think the values you see coming out of Western Pennsylvania Democrats -- yesterday, John Fetterman and I launched a make stuff here agenda. 
 
It was all about American manufacturing, union jobs, getting out of these lousy trade deals, and those are things that really mattered my constituents in western Pennsylvania and I know the Biden-Harris Administration had shared that vision with us. I'm confident that a Harris-Walz Administration will be there too.
 
RAJU: OK. And just as we wrap up very quickly, there is going to be an expected big rally next week in Pittsburgh with Harris and Biden, a Labor Day wet rally. Would -- do you plan to be there?
 
DELUZIO: I do not miss Labor Day in Pittsburgh and this is union country in western PA. President Biden was in town two years ago with the steelworkers around Labor Day. We will be ready and we'll be fired up.
 
RAJU: OK. All right. Well, Congressman Deluzio, thank you so much for joining me. Really appreciate it.
 
And up next, why is the Trump campaign fighting with the Foo Fighters and some other high-profile artists?
 
ANNOUNCER: Tomorrow, the most anticipated interview of this election, Kamala Harris and Tim Walz sit down with Dana Bash for the first interview. Harris and Walz, a CNN Exclusive, tomorrow at nine.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:52:20]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MY HERO - SONG BY FOO FIGHTERS)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Recognize that song? Well, the Trump campaign is in a fight with the rock band Foo Fighters, not to mention megastars Celine Dion, Beyonce, and others, who want him to quit blasting their music at his rallies. But, can they stop him?
 
CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister has been following this fight. So Elizabeth, Trump as you know, has had similar battles in the past with Rihanna, Guns 'n' Roses, and even The Rolling Stones.
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this is certainly not the first time that a celebrity or a musical artist has spoken out against Trump and his campaign. But it seems like it is really hitting a breaking point right now, because in quick succession, we've had a lot of stars speak out. 
 
So before we get to the Foo Fighters, I want to talk about Beyonce. I don't know if you saw this, Manu, but last week, the Trump campaign, his lead spokesperson posted a video of the former president getting off a plane and it was set to Beyonce's song 'Freedom.'
 
Now, that may sound a little weird to you. And if it does, it is because Beyonce, I reported, gave her sign-off to the Harris campaign, not the Trump campaign, to use the song 'Freedom.' So reportedly, Beyonce sent a cease and desist to the Trump campaign, and shortly after the video was taken down. Now, here is a statement that we have obtained from the Trump campaign. A spokesperson tells us, "The purpose of the post just proved the point that Democrats are all about banning things, including freedom. They fell for it, hook, line and sinker."
 
Now, I have to tell you as much as I may be appreciate the humor that was the intention perhaps of that statement, this isn't about banning things, this is about music rights and clearances which, Manu, is a very complicated and litigious business. It takes a lot of work to get the clearances for music, whether you're using it in a movie or in a commercial, or certainly if you are aligning a celebrity's music with a political campaign. Now, I have reached out to Beyonce's team. We have not heard back.
 
But Celine Dion, her song was also used at a Trump rally. He played, "My Heart Will Go On" and shortly after, this is what Celine's team had to say, "In no way is this use authorized and Celine Dion does not endorse this or any similar use." They ended their statement by saying, and really, that song. Now, let's wrap up by talking about the Foo Fighters. I reached out to Trump's spokesperson yesterday. He tells me that they did license this song, but the Foo Fighters' representative says that the band did not give their permission whatsoever.
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
Where this can get complicated is you could theoretically get a license from the publisher, but it is possible that the artist hasn't given sign off.
 
RAJU: So much to work through there, just great reporting. Elizabeth Wagmeister from L.A., thank you for that.
 
And another reminder to tune in tomorrow night at 9:00 p.m. Eastern for the most anticipated interview of the year, Vice President Harris and Governor Walz sit down exclusively for their first joint interview with Dana Bash.
 
And one more thing, when Dana wasn't busy moderating debates or interviewing presidential candidates or anchoring this show, she co- wrote a book. It's called " America's Deadliest Election: The Cautionary Tale of the Most Violent Election in American History." It is by Dana Bash and her co-author, David Fisher. It is out next week and you can pre-order it today. I got one in my office and I can't wait to read it.
 
All right. Thanks for joining "Inside Politics." "CNN News Central" starts after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)