Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: CNN's New Year's Eve Live. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired December 31, 2024 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00]
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN ANCHOR:  And, Julia, you got something special cooking up for New Year's Eve? 
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR:  Always. But the good news for our viewers, Kristie, is I'm not actually cooking because that would be a firework display of a whole different kind and probably not a good one, quite frankly. But if you're in New York City and you fancy some fabulous Indian food, then bungalow restaurant different kind and probably not a good one, quite frankly. But if you're in New York City and you fancy some fabulous Indian food, then bungalow restaurant is one of the hottest tickets and the hardest reservations to get. 
 
Now at the helm is author, film director and Michelin star chef himself, Vikas Khanna. He's also one of my dear friends. And the good news is he actually helped me rustle up a dish for New Year's Eve. No reservation required. Watch this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VIKAS KHANNA, CELEBRITY CHEF:  Good to see you guys. Amazing to be at bungalow. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  So, what are we cooking? 
 
KHANNA:  We are making a very interesting, very quick dish. But this sauce is where the magic happens. It's a sauce which you're going to make in one minute. You're going to heat some oil. One minute sauce, one minute sauce. That's simple. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow.
 
KHANNA:  And here, of course, you can see this beautiful spice. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, it looks beautiful. Am I going to be let loose on the sauce? 
 
KHANNA:  Yeah. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Uh-oh. 
 
KHANNA:  Two teaspoons of turmeric. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  This is flat teaspoons or this is good or too much. KHANNA:  It's a very forgiving sauce. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Just good. Just go for it. 
 
KHANNA:  One more.
 
CHATTERLEY:  One more? 
 
KHANNA:  This is the trick which I've learned in working in so many Indian kitchens. That's it. You just need hot oil and turmeric. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  The smell already. 
 
KHANNA:  And now it's cooled down to this. I'm going to add labneh, which is like honey yogurt. 
 
You can use Greek yogurt now. You can add lemon juice to it. It's right there in the bowl. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Am I going to do that? 
 
KHANNA:  Yeah. That's yuzu lemon juice. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Straight in. 
 
KHANNA:  Straight in. Now I'm going to add a little salt and sugar. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  It's good. 
 
KHANNA:  That's good. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  See? Look at that. 
 
KHANNA:  That's it. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  I was a born -- born to be a chef's assistant. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KHANNA:  That's it. The sauce is ready. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  It looks yummy. 
 
KHANNA:  It's just one minute, and then it becomes even better when you eat it next day. Now you see this? 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, yes. Yes. 
 
KHANNA:  It's rich, creamy. It's totally so different. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  I want some more. You should have given me a bigger spoon.
 
KHANNA:  Right there. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Give me that one now. Now we're talking. KHANNA:  See how amazing it is. You know you also added turmeric is
 
 amazing. It's also very auspicious, especially on New Year's time that our grandmothers gave us a glass of turmeric with milk. It is for health and well-being. 
 
My grandmother, who was the best chef I've ever known. She said that Indian kitchen is a dispensary. It has remedies for everything. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, let's step back. Wow, it's getting spicy. 
 
KHANNA:  Once the scallops are ready, I'm going to sprinkle a little bit of zaatar spice mix. You're going to add one dollop of butter. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  And what is here. Are you going to talk us through it when we do it? Yeah. The decoration/
 
KHANNA:  All the garnishing. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  I like the decoration, especially since its sort of I was clearly dressing for the occasion. Look at that. Out they come. 
 
KHANNA:  That's it. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  I can already taste how good this is going to be with the lemon and the yuzu. It's so easy, she says, watching someone else do it. Ta-da! We get to try it now. Ready? 
 
Mhm. Wow. 
 
No, I'm keeping it.
 
KHANNA:  Okay. Happy New Year. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Happy New Year. 
 
KHANNA:  Happy New Year. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Congrats. 
 
It's just the beginning. 
 
Happy New Year, everybody. 
 
Can I have some more? 
 
KHANNA:  It's all yours. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Good. Good answer. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Vikas knows me well enough to know my skill set. Suited far more to eating than to cooking, Kristie. But I'm definitely ready for breakfast. Now, you're ready for the canapes? Of course you are. Happy New Year! I tried. STOUT:  The sous-chef there in your beautiful sequined gown. It was that lemon juice you added that made all the difference. That looked gorgeous. I need to try that. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  True skill. True skill. 
 
STOUT:  True skill.
 
Julia, thank you so much.
 
CHATTERLEY:  He's nervous laugh said it all. 
 
STOUT:  The countdown -- you need that butter to everything in this New Year 2025. Thank you. Julia. We'll talk again soon. 
 
We are also closing in on 2025 very closely in Tokyo. And that's where we're going to find CNN correspondent Hanako Montgomery.
 
Hanako, we are inching ever closer to midnight there. Can you describe the mood? And also, can you introduce us to a hometown hero? 
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Kristie, the party is getting started once again. I don't know if you can hear this music behind me. Take a listen. We have exhilarating, traditional Japanese drumming right now, collaborating with actually that DJ that you saw earlier. I mean, just such fantastic music. 
 
I was excited for New Year's, but now my heart is truly, truly racing. Now, this Taiko group is known for performing all across the world, in Japan, in the U.S. and in Europe. 
 <br>[09:35:05]
 
And actually, speaking of the world and global events, this year was, of course, a huge global event for sports. We had the Paris Olympics and Japanese athletes did so well. But one athlete in particular really stands out. 
 
Yuto Horigome, he is the only athlete ever to actually have won two Olympic gold medals back to back, once at the Tokyo Olympics and then again at the Paris Olympics. 
 
Earlier this year, I got to sit down or I should say, skate with Yuto Horigome. Here's what he had to say about his year. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  For skateboarding legend Yuto Horigome, these ramps aren't just where he struck gold at the Tokyo Olympics. 
 
YUTO HORIGOME, OLYMPIAN:  Super special, like the place to me. You know, I growing up in this Koto City, in Tokyo.
 
MONTGOMERY:  Now, the world is his playground.
 
From California to Paris to Brazil, Horigome is picking up medals and breaking records. 
 
The two-time Olympic medalist is the name in skateboarding right now, and he has the tricks to prove it.
 
During Horigome's recent trip to Japan, I challenged him to a showdown at live door Ariake Urban Sports Park, where he first won Olympic gold.
 
And then here, right? 
 
Okay, maybe not, but he's a good sport about it. 
 
Horigome lives in L.A. now, and every trip back to Japan reminds him of how different the skateboarding culture is here.
 
HORIGOME:  In Japan, like when you skating on the street, like if people doesn't like get it. Skateboarding an Olympics is obviously sports, but like skateboarding, more like culture and street. It's still very important. And I'm growing up like that. So like I don't want to forget. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  So how do you want to change skateboarding culture in Japan? 
 
HORIGOME:  Definitely. I wanted to make more big. Maybe like if I can skate like more like free in Japan, like streetskating. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Add that to his to do list for the New Year. 
 
HORIGOME:  Next year is the Tampa Pro. That contests like super special because it has like a lot of history back in the day. So no one had three in a row, so I want to try like three in a row. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Okay. Like a hat trick. 
 
HORIGOME:  That's super important to me, actually, even tricks, too, like, you know, I wanted to do like, the trick. Like no one does. Maybe 2026, like, Trasher has skater of the year. That's like, everyone want to get it. Like, that's my dream too. So -- 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MONTGOMERY:  And, Kristie, I'm making a promise to you right now. By this time next year, I will have some skateboarding tricks to show you -- Kristie. 
 
STOUT:  Yes, yes, because I know you can do it. I got to know you really well this last year. Hanako, you can set your mind to do anything. And that includes an ollie. So I expect you to learn and to perform an ollie, especially when you have the ultimate teacher right there in Japan. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  I can disappoint you.
 
STOUT:  Hanako Montgomery -- thank you so much, Hanako. Take care. We'll talk again soon. You're watching CNN New Year's Eve live. I'm coming to you live from
 
 Hong Kong. 
 
And still to come, it's time to get organized in 2025, the Marie Kondo way. My conversation with her, straight ahead. 
 
Also, the Japanese dance troupe, Avantgardey. You may have seen them on social media. They have caught fire. They are ones to watch in 2025.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:43:09]
 
STOUT:  Live imagery from Tokyo. An epic Taiko drum performance. Did you see the size of that one drum? All set to ring in the New Year? 
 
Meanwhile, here in Hong Kong, we're about an hour and 20 minutes or so away from what promises to be the most spectacular firework musical to date. 
 
And joining me now are a couple of revelers. Hey there, Erica and Jackson, your brother and sister? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yeah. 
 
STOUT:  This is your first time being out here to see the fireworks? Yes. You grew up in Hong Kong, but this is a first experience for you. What are you looking forward to? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, I'm so looking forward to the countdown. Everyone just counting together. It's going to be a great atmosphere.
 
STOUT:  Because the countdown is going to be projected on the convention center, and everyone's just going to be yelling out the numbers as we go, right?
 
And so are you looking forward to 2025? Do you have goals in 2025? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I have a goal and 25. I want to perform a drama show. 
 
STOUT:  Oh.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, and maybe some card tricks in terms of card tricks and performing in front of in front of our classmates or my sister or my family. 
 
STOUT:  You're the older sister. You're already in drama school, right? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes. 
 
STOUT:  Do you have New Year's resolution for 2025? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, yes. We're doing a "La La Land" medley. I hope that goes well. 
 
STOUT:  Oh, my gosh, that sounds fantastic. You mentioned card tricks. Can you show me a card trick right now? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Oh, okay. 
 
STOUT:  All right. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Here is a very normal. 
 
STOUT:  He carries his own cards. Yeah. Very normal. Okay. Bicycle cards? Yeah, I know the brand. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Can you help me pick the card? 
 
STOUT:  Okay. I'm just. You're trying to make me pick that one, so I'm going to go for this one. All right, there we go. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Just memorize it. 
 
STOUT:  Yeah, it's easy to memorize. Yeah.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Okay. And then, is it okay? I put it right over here. 
 
STOUT:  You have my permission? Yes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes. Okay, good. I'll put it right over here. 
 
And it's a very simple thing that if I flip this card, it wouldn't be yours, right? 
 
STOUT:  No, it's not my card. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Okay. And then when I do this, this is your card?
 <br>[09:45:01]
 
STOUT:  Show it to the camera. That is my card. It was the ace of hearts. Oh my gosh.
 
Jackson and Erica, thank you so much. Happy New Year. That was fantastic. 
 
I love it. The New Year is already getting good vibes. I'm already getting the good vibes. 
 
We're also going to get good vibes now with our next guest. You may have heard of spark joy. That's the mantra from Marie Kondo for organizing our closets, organizing our lives. Now she is the decluttering guru. She has inspired millions, including myself, to tidy up with a book, with a Netflix show, with a consulting business. 
 
Earlier, Marie joined me from Japan and I started by asking her, how can we spark joy in 2025? 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARIE KONDO, ORGANIZATION EXPERT, KONMARI FOUNDER:  In Japan, we do the end of the year cleaning. It's called Osoji. 
 
Japanese want to make sure that their home are spotless before the New Year. We believe that luck easily comes into our home when everything is tidy. 
 
STOUT:  Marie Kondo, you are the queen of decluttering. You make it sound so serene, but really, how do you do it? How do you tidy up your home? Especially when you have three children running around the house? 
 
KONDO:  Yes, I agreed that it is difficult to tidy my home with three kids. However, to make things easier, I recommend three points. 
 
First, make the habit of tidying with kids. And second, designate spot for things. It is important for kids to know and to see where the items are. It makes it easier for them to tidy up by themselves. And finally, be relaxed when tidying.
 
STOUT:  And looking ahead to 2025, what is a goal that any person can commit to in the New Year? 
 
KONDO:  If you have not tidied your home yet, start now. How to clean up your belongings. You will take natural steps on. Tidy your work, your mind and your relationships and all aspects of your lives, and you can then transform your lives and surrounding yourself with only what sparks joy for you. 
 
STOUT:  Marie Kondo, thank you so much. Thank you for spending time with us here at CNN and happy New Year. 
 
KONDO:  Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for having me and happy New Year. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
STOUT:  Marie Kondo makes it sound so easy, but it is so hard to get rid of that moldy teddy bear. 
 
Now we are a few minutes away from the New Year in Tokyo, and CNN will bring you the energy, the festivities, as Japan rings in 2025 in style. Now the current pride of Osaka, Japan comes in the form of a dazzling dance troupe called Avantgardey. Now they wowed the judges at Americas got talent in 2023, and since then they have toured Asia, gaining millions of fans. 
 
I recently got a chance to meet up with them during a break in their now very busy schedule.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STOUT (voice-over):  Eccentric energetic and always in sync, they may look like bob hair dolls, but Avantgardey is a show-stopping dance troupe that is ready for world domination. In 2023, the Japanese dance crew stunned the judges at "America's Got Talent". Yes, and have toured across Asia, including a stop in Hong Kong. 
 
Oh my gosh Avantgardey, they're in the building. They're in the building. 
 
At the city's M+ Museum of Contemporary Visual Culture, we meet nine of the 17 dancers. 
 
Welcome again to Hong Kong. 
 
AVANTGARDEY:  Yay! 
 
STOUT:  First, we need to talk about your look. What inspired the concept? 
 
SONO, AVANTGARDEY:  All of these decisions are made by our producer, Akane. By having everyone wear the same uniform and perform the same movements in this way, I think we're able to deliver a strange and unique performance. 
 
STOUT:  How involved are you creatively in coming up with your dance moves? 
 
NONA, AVANTGARDEY:  Our producer, Akane, comes up with the choreography. And when we have our live performances, we come up with ideas and work together to create the piece.
 
STOUT:  In 2024. It has been a big year for Avantgardey. What was it like managing that touring schedule and also the fame. 
 
KOHANA, AVANTGARDEY:  We were very happy to be able to actually meet he fans from all over the world. The fans cheered in a different way compared to Japanese fans and we were very surprised and happy to see their enthusiasm. 
 
SIMON COWELL, JUDGE, AMERICA'S GOT TALENT:  That was genius. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Wow. 
 <br>[09:50:01]
 
STOUT:  That moment when you stunned the judges, incredible. What was that like?
 
NAGANO, AVANTGARDEY:  At first, they thought we were a very strange team, but by the end of our performance, the audience and the judges, everyone was smiling, and we were very honored to know that we could move people's emotions just by dancing even though we couldn't speak the language. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I love you girls. 
 
AVANTGARDEY:  Thank you. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes. 
 
STOUT:  What are your hopes and dreams for 2025? KOHANA:  It's our dream to have a show in Las Vegas in the United
 
 States one day.
 
STOUT:  Avantgardey, it's been so cool to hang out with all of you. Thank you so much and happy New Year!
 
AVANTGARDEY:  Happy New Year!
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
STOUT:  Avantgardey is genius and it was so much fun to hang out with them at the museum. Now the start of 2025 is just minutes away for the Japanese capital. So do stay with us as we bring you all the festivities live. 
 
Thank you so much for joining us. I'm Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong. Do stay with CNN. I'll be back as our New Years eve live special rolls on. 
 
(MUSIC)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:55:50]
 
STOUT:  Welcome back. 
 
You're looking live at the festivities in Tokyo, a massive light projection that's only going to get even bigger because we are just minutes away from midnight there. We want to welcome you to CNN's special coverage of New Year's Eve Live. 
 
I'm Kristie Lu Stout, live in Hong Kong. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR:  And I'm Brianna Keilar at the Marriott Marquis in New York's Times Square. 
 
And all day long, CNN is taking you around the world as we welcome 2025 with you in style until everyone everywhere rings in the New Year, Kristie. 
 
STOUT:  Brianna, it's so great to party with you this evening. Hong Kong time, and let's bring up the clock. You can see it right here. Excitement building over in Japan, where it is on the cusp of midnight. 
 
So it's time to check in once again with CNN's Hanako Montgomery. She joins us live in Tokyo. 
 
Hanako, we've done this before. Last year, you introduced us to a New Year's Eve treat in Tokyo. And it involves slurping. 
 
Bring on the food. 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Hi, Kristie. Yeah, you're absolutely right. I mean, last year, I think I introduced you to something called Toshikoshi Soba, which is a traditional dish that we eat here in Japan. Honestly, its one of my favorite foods to eat during the holidays. And I actually got to try some myself nearby at our Illumination Market near the venue. 
 
Here's what it tasted like.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(SPEAKING JAPANESE)
 
MONTGOMERY:  So I just got my hot bowl of steaming soba noodles. This is a traditional dish that we eat here in Japan. It's called Toshikoshi Soba and it's made of soba noodles or buckwheat noodles. And because they're long, they're supposed to represent having a healthy life. They're supposed to represent longevity. 
 
And also because they're easier to cut than other types of noodles, it's supposed to represent cutting yourself off from all the bad vibes of the previous year. This looks delicious. I'm so excited to dig in. 
 
Itadakimasu. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MONTGOMERY:  And, Kristie, I already feel like I am rid of all the bad vibes of 2024. I am so looking forward to welcoming 2025 in less than five minutes -- Kristie.
 
KEILAR:  I love that, cutting off all of the bad energy. I think something we should all aim for, Hanako. 
 
So I know a lot of people are there ready to party behind you. How do folks normally ring in the New Year in Japan? 
 
MONTGOMERY:  Brianna, I'm so glad you asked that. Normally in New Years, right around New Years holidays in Japan, we celebrate it at home with our families. We eat as much good food as possible, trying to spend as much time on the couch as possible. So it's really great to actually see hundreds of people.
 
In fact. In fact, thousands of people really ringing in the New Year. They are looking at this beautiful projection mapping that we have here on the skyscraper right behind me. And I'm just seeing here now, we have less than two minutes to go. We have about a minute 30 to go until 2025. 
 
And Brianna, there are young people here, old people, families, partners, couples. I mean, just such a wide range of people. And they are all looking forward to all the joy that 2025 is sure to bring. 
 
STOUT:  And, Hanako, once the clock strikes midnight, which is just over one minute away, what are you going to be looking out for? 
 
HANAKO:  Well, I will be looking out for, Kristie. People just jumping up and down out of excitement because 2025 is yet to be the best year yet. I will also be looking out for just some of these musical events that were going to be having here in Tokyo. Again, this is the first time that the Tokyo metropolitan government has been doing this kind of event, and it is just so exciting right now. I think you can see on the skyscraper here, these different blocks moving about. 
 
We also had a dragon, I think moments ago, representing the year of the dragon in 2024 and of course, 2025, Kristie, I'm sure, as you know, will be the year of the snake. 
 
And this will of course be another year of excitement for Japan. For many people here across the country, also travelers and tourists who are here.