Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Soon: Trump Criminal Hush Money Trial Resumes; Trump's Attorney To Resume Questioning Of Pecker Friday; Blinken: Russia's War On Ukraine Would Struggle Without China. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired April 26, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
SARA SIDNER, HOST, "CNN NEWS CENTRAL": Something, this twist that was brought up first by reporter and author Ronan Farrow, who has done extensive reporting, and wrote a book on how Harvey wants scenes operated. He argues that this appellate case could actually have some impact on Donald Trump's case. How? 
 
MISTY MARRIS, DEFENSE &amp; TRIAL ATTORNEY: Sara, it's the first thing I thought of because we're covering Trump gavel to gavel. Keep in mind --
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, HOST, "CNN NEWSROOM": Hello, and welcome to our viewers all around the world. I'm Fredricka Whitfield, and this is the CNN Newsroom. 
 
Just ahead, Donald Trump will be back in court today, as his criminal hush money trial continues in New York. We've got details on the so- called catch and kill schemes allegedly carried out on behalf of the former President. Plus, America's top diplomat meets with China's President. What we're learning about that high-stakes meeting? And then, pro-Palestinian protests spread on college campuses across the U.S. Why police arrested protesters, protesters rather, at this Georgia rally?
 
All right. We're just about 90 minutes away from what's expected to be more explosive testimony in Donald Trump's criminal hush money trial. On Thursday, former National Enquirer publisher David Pecker was back on the stand, testifying about the so-called catch and kill scheme in which he says he bought and buried negative stories about Trump ahead of the 2016 election. Pecker said he questioned the legality of buying a story concerning a political candidate then killing it. He adds he would not have done it were it not for Trump's benefit. 
 
Katelyn Polantz is joining us live from Washington with more on this story. All right. So, Katelyn, it could be potentially another revealing day of testimony.
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Another revealing day of testimony with David Pecker on the stand being questioned first this morning by the defense team. But, he has already said a lot because he has sat for testimony for more than six hours or thereabouts for prosecutors' questions. And when they had him on the stand, they used him to lay out the full arc of the scheme of the 2016 campaign of Donald Trump to make sure that negative stories about Trump related to alleged affairs he may have had with women would be buried, would not see the light of day to protect him as a candidate. 
 
And also, Pecker has highlighted the motivations. The way he has done this is explained three catch and kill schemes or three catch and kill situations, two of which the National Enquirer paid for. So, a doorman that came to the National Enquirer with a story about Trump that they paid for, took that story and made sure it did not see the light of day during the 2016 election. And then, Karen McDougal, a model actress who alleged a year-long affair with Trump, the National Enquirer bought the rights to her story and then made it. So, it was never published during 2016. 
 
Then, the third, Stormy Daniels, the National Enquirer didn't end up publishing that story. But, they also didn't end up buying that story from Stormy Daniels or the rights to it. But, David Pecker testified he was in touch with Donald Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen, who was deeply involved in the campaign, so that Cohen was able to take on the Stormy Daniels story himself. That's the core of the charges here. And Pecker has given quite an ark, put Donald Trump in the room and in conversations with him, talking about how he wanted these things to be buried during the campaign that that was a key motivation for him, as well as Pecker testifying that Donald Trump told Michael Cohen that he was furious or that Cohen told Pecker that Trump was furious when the National Enquirer didn't purchase the Stormy Daniels story. 
 
So, a lot for the jury to think about and to sue (ph) over as they look at this. But, we get the cross-examination now, Fred, and that's where the defense team is trying to highlight how often the National Enquirer was purchasing rights to negative stories about people and burning them. And then, also that the National Enquirer had a long history of giving Donald Trump a heads up in advance of negative stories that could be coming about him. 
 
WHITFIELD: Right. And Katelyn, before cross-examination today, also at issue was the motivation about why these catch and kills were happening. It wasn't necessarily to protect Trump and his family. But, Pecker established that it was to protect Trump and his campaign. Why is that significant? 
 
POLANTZ: Yeah. He has testified to that many times, and that's something that prosecutors really want to make sure the jury understands that this is not just Donald Trump wanting to have these stories buried because he was embarrassed generally or because he wanted to protect his family, but because things shifted once he was running for President. And this was something much different. 
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
Pecker testified and said in his own words he did believe that these stories would be embarrassments for the campaign and that the relationship he had with Trump and Michael Cohen changed so that there was a motivating factor of the campaign here. That's important because it makes the charges more serious. Prosecutors are able to claim that -- through the jury that this is more of a campaign finance violation that Trump was benefiting from these pay-off schemes, these hush money schemes. 
 
And at one point, Pecker even testified, Fred, that in the Karen McDougal situation, he had a lawyer at AMI, his company, look at the what was going on there and what that agreement would be, and he became aware that an expenditure like this paying off Karen McDougal and potentially getting reimbursed from the Trump Organization, he ultimately wasn't there. But, he believed that that could be something that was problematic for campaign finance.
 
WHITFIELD: So, is it significant that this will be day three of testimony from David Pecker? I mean, we know on the list will be Michael Cohen, will be Stormy Daniels, all of whom will be called. The prosecutors have made it clear they're not going to give the order because they're trying to protect these witnesses from any kind of harassment. But, is it the feeling that this is a build-up to more, or is David Pecker becoming kind of a star witness here?
 
POLANTZ: He is a star witness because he has a lot to say. He is really interesting. He has an interesting background. He has all of these pieces of the puzzle that he is putting together for the jury at the start. But, Fred, trials build. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah.
 
POLANTZ: They build from the start the whole way to the end. There could be days that are about transactions and things that are a little bit dry or the technicalities, getting evidence into make sure that the prosecutors believe that they're putting the right evidence in to prove their case paper, phone records, things like that. But, there are going to be multiple star witnesses in this trial, and we just don't know who is next yet.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. OK. Katelyn Polantz, keep us posted. Thank you so much. 
 
All right. Let's take an even closer look at the case so far from a legal angle. We're joined now by defense attorney Misty Marris. Great to see you, Misty. So this former media executive, David Pecker, on the stand three days now. You heard Katelyn. This is a build-up, even though he really is a star witness. So, in your view, how damaging to Trump has his testimony been? Has he established that there were indeed exchanges of money information to keep these negative stories out of the paper for Trump's political benefit?
 
MARRIS: Well, that was exactly what he testified to, Fred, and his testimony is absolutely key, and that's because, as Katelyn pointed out, everything is a building block from the prosecution's perspective. David Pecker, it makes so much sense that he was the first witness called, and that's because he is setting the tone for everything. He is explaining what the catch and kill was. He is speaking directly to Donald Trump's intent. On the stand, during direct examination, he said that Donald Trump never mentioned his family. He never mentioned his daughter. He never mentioned his wife. He never mentioned his business. He was directly worried about the election, and that was the purpose behind these payments. 
 
So, that's a critical piece for the prosecution to prove. And therefore, David Pecker's testimony, really, really important to lay that foundation that will serve as those building blocks for the rest of the case.
 
WHITFIELD: Why is that so important, in your view, because it isn't necessarily illegal for this publication to pay people, but it's an issue of establishing that this was done in furtherance of a crime? So, where is the prosecution going here? 
 
MARRIS: Correct. And it is a little bit complicated. So, first, it's the falsification of business records. That's qualifying these expenses as a legal expenses. Now, that has to be in furtherance of another crime. The question then becomes, what's the other crime? Well, the district attorney during the examination of David Pecker said it relates to this New York election law, which says you can't conspire to impact an election through unlawful means. So, what's the next step to that? What are the unlawful means? Well, that's likely going to be this violation of campaign finance rules, meaning that these payments should have been identified as campaign contributions. 
 
So, David Pecker's testimony directly relates to that because the argument against that from the defense perspective is that these payments were done for any other reason other than the election. Well, David Pecker testified that this was directly related to Donald Trump wanting to be in the White House and his election efforts. So, you can see, it's a little bit of chain of logic --
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah.
 
MARRIS: -- but it's really important for that foundation to be laid.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
WHITFIELD: I mean, these jurors have to follow all these nooks and crannies here in order to kind of connect these dots. Dots being established. So, Pecker may reportedly be asked about porn star Stormy Daniels today. What questions will need to be asked to link the payments to Trump's 2016 campaign, even though you mentioned they haven't been established as campaign donations?
 
MARRIS: So, right now, Pecker is going to be on direct examination, a lot of the questions related to the why. Why are we doing all of this? Why are we buying these stories relating to Stormy Daniels? Now, in the cross-examination, the defense is going to try, and number one, go after Pecker's memory. They're going to talk about that he has a non- prosecution agreement. So, there is an element of self-interest. And they're going to try and say that meant much of what Pecker testified to in his direct examination related to conversations that he had with Michael Cohen. So, they're going to try and take Trump and have him a million miles away from these conversations. That's going to be the defense goal. 
 
Now, keep in mind, prosecution gets the opportunity to do a redirect where they will clarify some of those points specific to Stormy Daniels because that payment, the timing, was at a time when prosecutors, as per their opening statement, the Trump team was in damage control mode because the Access Hollywood tape had just come out. So, they would do anything and everything to suppress the story because of the election, and that's why Pecker's testimony is so critical to the prosecution's case. 
 
WHITFIELD: And then, quickly, as for court matters, is it problematic at all that Judge Merchan has yet to rule on the prosecutors' allegations of gag order violations? Like for how long should Trump be able to say what he says, according to the prosecutors, continuously violating the gag order?
 
MARRIS: Well, you know what? Four more allegations by the prosecution have just been added via order to show cause. So, now --
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah.
 
MARRIS: -- we're up to like 15. I think he'll rule soon. But, he really is being cautious because he does not want to tread on the First Amendment right. It's a limited gag order. And I do think that he wants to have a very reasoned decision, which is why you're not seeing a decision from the bench or seeing him reserve decision, go through each and every one of the prosecution's claims that the gag order was violated, and ultimately a decision. I think we're going to see it soon. I'm surprised we haven't seen it yet. But, I think we're probably going to hear about that either this week or early next week. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Misty Marris, thanks so much. Good to see you.
 
MARRIS: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: Have a great weekend. 
 
All right. On the final day of a crucial trip to China, the big meeting came for America's top diplomat. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken sitting down a short time ago with Chinese President Xi Jinping. And later, during a news conference, Blinken addressed one of Washington's key concerns, Beijing's support for Russia. Blinken says, in his words, "Russia would struggle to sustain its assault on Ukraine without China's support" end quote. He went on to say that Beijing's help for Putin also threatens European nations.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: As we told China for some time, ensuring transatlantic security is a core U.S. interest. In our discussions today, I made clear that if China does not address this problem, we will. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: CNN's Marc Stewart is in Beijing, and joins us now. Marc, high-stakes meeting. What more are you learning?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Indeed, Fredricka. I think over the day, we saw a mix of clearly diplomatic speak, but also would have been framed as tough conversations. Let's start with that meeting that just happened hours ago here in Beijing between Secretary Blinken and Chinese President Xi Jinping. As you reported, Secretary Blinken delivered this administration message expressing concern of China's support of the Russian war machine, particularly how it relates to Ukraine. Some very firm language there. Yet, we also heard some conciliatory language with Xi Jinping saying quote, "It's probably better or it is better for the United States and China to be partners rather than adversary." So, we saw that mix. 
 
A big part, though, of this meeting here today in Beijing was a five- hour meeting between Secretary Blinken and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. They tackled a very long list of conversation points. First of all, of course, Russia, China and defense support, but also touched upon things such as the Taiwan Strait, the South China Sea, as well as concern about escalation in the Middle East, as well as with North Korea. Both sides agreed that the conversations were both substantive and constructive. 
 
But, let's not forget, there are some very profound differences between these two nations. And China certainly articulated that with Wang Yi telling Blinken, the issue with Taiwan, that is still and it remains to be a red line in this relationship between the United States and China. 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
It's a line that cannot be crossed. He also expressed some dissatisfaction, saying that the United States has been overhyping concerns that China is flooding the market with its prices, making it less competitive for other nations to do business and do trade. We also heard some reservations from China about America's role in the Asia-Pacific, perhaps alluding to some of the relationships, military relations that have formed between the United States and many other nations in this part of the world. 
 
There were not -- there was not a lot of pressure for the United States or for China to come through with any deliverables. This was seen as an ongoing set of discussions after what have been some very frosty months between these two nations. Fredricka, as one analyst put it yesterday, perhaps these two nations realize it's better to be talking than not talking at all.
 
WHITFIELD: Absolutely. All right. Marc Stewart, thanks so much, Beijing. 
 
All right. Now to the Israel-Hamas war. An Egyptian delegation is in Israel for talks. An Israeli source says the group will continue negotiations over a potential new framework for a ceasefire and hostage deal. Meanwhile, a ship with aid and humanitarian workers that was set to depart from Turkey has been delayed. Organizers of the aid, Flotilla, blame Israel for the delay. This as a high-stakes construction mission is underway off the coast of Gaza. The Pentagon says the U.S. has started building a temporary pier to get more humanitarian aid into Gaza. They hope to get the pier operational by early May. The U.S. says the ultimate goal is to deliver up to 150 trucks of aid per day. CNN's Scott McLean is in Istanbul, Turkey, and joining us live now.
 
 Scott, what are you learning about the delay in the ship?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fredricka. Yeah. So, this is actually an effort that was first announced back in November with the aim of setting sail by either the end of last year or the beginning of this year. Here we are now five months later. The ships have finally been purchased. They're in the water, loaded up, ready to go. But now, another delay. They say it should only be a few days. But, this is something that's been delayed several times this month already. So, we just don't know. 
 
This Flotilla is planning to carry more than 5,000 tons of aid to Gaza, which of course is desperately needed. But, what will likely not be welcomed by the Israelis, at least, is a ship carrying hundreds of international pro-Palestinian activists from 30 different countries, 40 of them are Americans. The goal on paper is to deliver that aid. But, of course, in order to do that, they'll have to get past the Israeli naval blockade of the Gaza Strip, and doing that will either require permission or perhaps some kind of confrontation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): At a port in southern Turkey, this cargo ship is being loaded with aid that may well never be delivered. The ship will be part of a small flotilla soon bound for Gaza, along with this ship being tuned up in Istanbul. Neither have permission from Israel to enter the blockaded Gaza Strip. 
 
MCLEAN: This is a passenger ferry. It's not meant to carry aid. It's meant to carry people, and there will be hundreds of them on board, mostly activists, because as much as this is about sending aid to Gaza, it is also very clearly about sending a political message. 
 
ANN WRIGHT, FREEDOM FLOTILLA COALITION SPOKESPERSON: And if we can get our little ship in, it will be a drop in the bucket of what's needed. But, hopefully, it will put pressure on other countries to put pressure on Israel, and it could be diplomatic isolation, economic isolation, to make them stop this genocide.
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): Ann Wright is a former American soldier and diplomat-turned pro-Palestinian activist and was on board an ill-fated aid flotilla to Gaza in 2010.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mavi Marmara, you are approaching an area of hostilities which is under a naval blockade.
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): The ships were boarded by Israeli troops in international waters, and on the Mavi Marmara, carrying hundreds of international activists and journalists. Soldiers were greeted by slingshots and with bars and chairs after rappelling down onto the deck. The resistance was futile. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have one person has just been hit in the head by bullets. WRIGHT: I was at the boat next to them, and we heard the shots hitting
 
 the Mavi Marmara, and we saw people falling. Nobody expected that. We didn't expect that the Israelis would start killing people and killing 10 of them. 
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): Nine Turks and an American were killed. Israel initially defended the deadly raid, but then years later, apologized and paid a multi-million dollar settlement to the victims' families. One of the victims was Cengiz Songur, whose son Ismail has spent the last six months organizing this latest effort. 
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
MCLEAN: Why are you doing this again? 
 
ISMAIL SONGUR, PRESIDENT, MAVI MARMARA ASSOCIATION: That's very simple, to break the siege of Gaza. It's not because of my father. Right now, we are standing for the children of Gaza. According to Islam, if a person is dying while going for the good mission he is becoming a Shaheed, a martyr. That's why it is not a kind of loss for us. It's kind of gain for us.
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): The flotilla has not been coordinated with the Israelis, nor is it attempting to use the established maritime corridor to Gaza used by the World Central Kitchen before seven of its staff were killed by Israeli strikes. Flotilla organizers say they will not allow Israel or any Western country to inspect the cargo. Israel declined to comment. 
 
SONGUR: We are sure that Israel is not authority in the region to check our humanitarian aid. That's why it's very clear for us. We have the green lights from the international conscience to move with the flotilla. 
 
MCLEAN: And if they block you? 
 
SONGUR: That's the problem of Israel. We will go there. If Israel tried to block it again, same or similar scenario can happen in the Middle East.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCLEAN: So, we asked, Fredricka, the Israelis how they plan to handle this flotilla once it reaches that blockaded zone. They said, no comment. We also don't know from the flotilla organizers how they plan to react to any encounter with the Israeli Navy. They wouldn't say if they would try to keep them off the ship if they tried to board. They just stress that they're going to be using nonviolent techniques, which they say means they're not going to attack anybody. They're not going to throw at anything at any Israeli troops. 
 
They also will not say on the very remote chance that they actually are allowed to approach Gaza. How they would actually offload their cargo? Because chances are their ships are far too big to use the jetty that was created by the World Central Kitchen. I also asked if they would accept an offer from Israel to unload on an Israeli port and take the aid in by land to Gaza. They said very clearly, no. They're not interested in going to Egypt with the aid either because they say that the land route there takes far too long, which is why they're going by sea anyways. 
 
They also would not accept a circumstance where the aid ship is allowed into the blockaded zone to unload, but the ship carrying mostly activists is not, because as much as this is about aid, it is also they make very clear about the principle of challenging that naval blockade, which they disagree with, though it's been in place now for more than 15 years. Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. Very complicated. All right. Scott McLean, thanks so much. 
 
All right. Meanwhile, in Gaza, authorities say they have recovered nearly 400 bodies from mass graves at a hospital in Khan Younis. A warning, the video you're about to see is graphic and disturbing. The Palestinian Civil Defense said on Thursday they concluded their search of three mass graves at Nasser Medical Complex. Some of the bodies were still wearing surgical gowns or hospital wristbands. Some allegedly had their hands and feet tied up. The IDF denies it buried Palestinian bodies in mass graves and said Palestinians had dug a grave at the complex several months ago. 
 
The Gaza Civil Defense acknowledged around 100 bodies were buried at the complex before the IDF operation there. Some Palestinians at the scene said they had buried family members on the premises in January but later returned to discover the bodies had been dug up and placed in a collective grave. 
 
All right. Still to come, people in parts of Nigeria are being told to be on alert, as dozens of inmates break out of prison. We will reveal how they escaped, next. Plus, protests over the war in Gaza boil over on campuses across the U.S., leading to hundreds of arrests, including arrest of college professors. The story, after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Tensions are boiling over on college campuses across the U.S. as pro-Palestinian protests sweep the country, leading to hundreds of arrests. At Emory University in Atlanta, 28 people were arrested, including two professors. A CNN crew witnessed police using a stun gun on at least one protester, who authorities say was resisting arrest. At least 33 people were detained at Indiana University after they refused to take down a tent encampment and disperse. And at Columbia University in New York City, the school says talks with protesters are ongoing and showing progress. 
 
Joining me right now from Columbia University is CNN's Polo Sandoval. Polo, great to see you. So, what is the mood like there on campus today? What do we know about these protests that have been turning violent, and now these talks? POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So, Fred, what we have heard from our colleague, Abby Washer, in some of the reporting is that some of those students, the pro-Palestinian students that are participating in that encampment, were told overnight by some of their group leaders there that what the university has offered, Columbia University has offered as part of these days-long negotiations, has fallen short of their demands, which remind our viewers really focused on divestment and on amnesty for the students and faculty that have been disciplined for participating in these protests. 
 
According to Abby's reporting, the students were also told that as part of these negotiations or conversations that are happening about a statement that would presumably come from Columbia University President, Minouche Shafik, in which we're told by the students that she would potentially address the incident from last week, which is when she turned to the NYPD and asked for assistance on campus to help clearing out a previous encampment. Last Wednesday, officially what we have heard directly from Columbia University and from the heads of these groups is that they are in fact making progress. So, these negotiations are certainly not at a stalemate. However, they are still far from over, according to what we've heard. 
 
Now, in terms of what the university is seeking, for starters, they really are hoping to -- for this encampment to be to be taken down, dismantled, if you will. So, I think that that's part of the longer conversation that is still continuing to happen. Well, we also heard from the university, they saying, look, they're making very clear, Fred, they have their demands, referring to the students, and we have ours. This is -- several people familiar with these negotiations have told me these are friendly and focused negotiations are happening, that the campus, the university, really hopeful that this will be -- this will come to a successful conclusion. However, they are also prepared to explore other options too, as they describe it, restore calm on campus, Fred. 
 
I have to tell you that we have been on campus. I've been allowed two hours at a time every day to be able to see for ourselves, and during the time that we have spent there, it has been calm. You do have that encampment that continues to grow. And just yesterday, there was also some shows of solidarity with Israel that was set up by some Jewish students. So, certainly evidence of a campus very much divided at this hour. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval at Columbia University in New York, thanks so much. 
 
All right. In France, students are also holding a pro-Palestinian demonstration right now at one of the country's highest ranked universities. Sciences Po in central Paris also has strong ties to Columbia and New York. 
 
Our Melissa Bell is there, and is joining us live. What's happening, Melissa?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fredricka, you mentioned those ties with Columbia University and what one of the student leaders here a short while ago told me was that there is this joint diploma between Paris' very prestigious Sciences Po University and Columbia, and they've been keeping a close eye on what's happening there. Certainly, what students here are saying is that they've been inspired by what's happening on American campuses, even if they're solidarity is, of course, for the Palestinian people. 
 <br>[08:30:00]
 
This are the scenes here at Sciences Po this afternoon, and not that like the dynamic that you saw at Columbia these last 10 days or so. What has really brought the students out today to this particular campus site was the fact that another protest also at Sciences Po in another of their buildings on Wednesday was cleared out, evacuated forcibly by the police. What students here today at this site are saying is that that's unprecedented here in France. Police just shouldn't be invited into university by the administration to force students out. And that's really added another layer of their anger. But, they say that they're going to continue with this protest, occupying now this site. There are tents set up inside. They've been here all night. 
 
Fredricka, they're going to stay here, they say, until the administration of their university meets their demands. And again, very similar to what you've heard on American campuses, the end of the war in Gaza, but also the calling for a boycott by their university of any companies that continue to do business with Israel. So, very similar demands and very much a movement that has taken its inspiration from what's been happening over at the United States, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: And so, the makeup of the people who are there, Melissa, I mean, this is central Paris. That's mix of business, educational campuses and everything. Are these mostly students who are there, or have there been people who have joined, I guess, some of the students there at Sciences Po?
 
BELL: No. Let me show you a little bit more, in fact, of what's happening. As you can see, the crowd is not that big, but it really is made up of students. Now, Sciences Po is a very prestigious school that focuses on political science, geopolitical studies. And a lot of these students have been telling us that they've been protesting on and off the war in Gaza now ever since it began back in October. But, it was events in the United States that inspired them to make much more forcible occupations of their campus buildings, this one, as I say, the one that was evacuated on Wednesday. 
 
So, certainly, they're keeping a close eye on what's happening in the United States and taking their lead from the fact that so far the university administrators there don't seem to report the protests under control. Their hope here is that by keeping up the pressure on their university, they're going to go -- what they told us is that, as their negotiations were ongoing Wednesday, and until they were forcibly evacuated, they had been negotiating with the administration of the university and that they have been making progress. What their hope is that by keeping up this pressure, they're going to get their university to accede to their demands that they're able to accede to, which is a boycott of companies involved with Israel, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Melissa Bell, thanks so much, in Paris. 
 
And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. A familiar sight right there, the former President Donald Trump, leaving Trump Tower on his way now, into his limousine, and then his motorcade there just moments ago, before that motorcade making its way downtown, now to Lower Manhattan for day four of testimony in his criminal hush money trial. And today, again, back on the witness stand, David Pecker, the former publisher of the National Enquirer. He has been revealing secrets all week long about the so-called catch and kill deals involving a former porn star and Playboy Playmate. 
 
Meanwhile, Donald Trump's immunity claims are now in the hands of the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C. While the justices appeared ready to reject claims of sweeping immunity, they also signaled that Trump's federal election subversion case could be delayed until after the November election. 
 
My next guest is a criminal defense attorney and a former New York Prosecutor, Bernarda Villalona. She is joining me live from New York. Great to see you again this morning. So, let's zero in on the hush money trial. In your view, how is the prosecution doing in establishing that there was falsification of documents in furtherance of another crime?
 
BERNARDA VILLALONA, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY, &amp; FORMER NEW YORK PROSECUTOR: Well, the prosecution has yet to actually lay out what documents were falsified aside from what they stated to in opening statements. Remember, David Pecker is only the first witness. So, they wouldn't have been able to establish and get those documents in through him. But, what David Pecker did was set the stage about this conspiracy, set the stage how we got to Stormy Daniels, set the stage about this catch and kill scheme, and also give us some insight as to the mindset of Donald Trump and engaging in this catch and kill scheme, which later they'll be able to tie up when Michael Cohen, how we eventually got to the falsifying of business records.
 
WHITFIELD: How do you think the jury is holding up in this? Because there was a lot of minutiae about the business of the catch and kill, the relationship between a David Pecker and Trump. Do you believe they are understanding this is about building the case right now, and this is just the beginning?
 
VILLALONA: Yes. They understand that because of the opening statements, because of how the prosecutor laid out what they believe they're going to prove and how they're going to prove it. That's why the opening statements are so important because it gives them a preview of the evidence and also shows them why each witness is relevant and what they should be looking at. Look, right now, the juries entertain in terms of David Pecker. Later on, down the line, they're going to get some boring witnesses. 
 
But, in terms of David Pecker, the head of the National Enquirer, at least the ex-head of the National Enquirer, where we used to go into these supermarkets and see all these tabloids and be entertained by, now they're getting background information about how these stories really came about, and it was about at the highest payer, the highest bidder, how to get your story out there about good stories about you, and bad stories, trying to keep it out of the news. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. And among the other witnesses to be called, Stormy Daniels, Michael Cohen. They're familiar with their names, but they're going to hear the minutiae of the dealings involving them. Cohen has, by the way, said on X that he will no longer be saying anything about Trump or the case until he takes the stand. Meantime -- isn't that what you want all of your witnesses to do? 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Right. Don't jeopardize the case, right, is what the attorneys and the prosecutors are hoping. So, the prosecutors in this case, they have not -- one of the -- to give the defense attorneys the order of the witnesses that will be called. But, what do you think -- who do you think logically will be next and why, after David Pecker?
 
VILLALONA: So, I think that's David Pecker. I don't think it's going to be Stormy Daniels. And the reason why I say that is because there are going to be some boring witnesses that are going to testify, and you want to try to keep the jurors awake. So, in order to keep them awake, you want to put some boring witnesses with some witnesses where their ears will be perked up and they'll be listening and much more understanding of what's going on. 
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
So, I think you'll probably start getting into some background information as to Donald Trump, what was going on during that time, the business dealings, the business records themselves. But, I don't see Michael Cohen testifying, definitely not today. I don't see Stormy Daniels testifying after David Pecker today. I think maybe into next week, if not next week, the following week, because next week, the schedule is still a little bit murky with short days given to Jewish holidays.
 
WHITFIELD: I got you. OK. And like you said, they got to keep to the jury's attention, and I guess they're going to have to use the weekend to allow all this to ruminate. It has been a lot of information, entertaining and informative as well. All right. Bernarda Villalona, good to see you. Thank you so much. Have a great weekend. 
 
VILLALONA: You too. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. To Ukraine now, where the Foreign Minister has been talking to CNN, and he is expressing Kyiv's gratitude for America's renewed support, as Ukraine fights to fend off Russia's invasion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DMYTRO KULEBA, UKRAINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: It's good to have America back. It's better when good things happen later than did not happen at all. We all know what follows when we lose, and therefore, we will keep fighting. What we do need is our partners to believe, firmly believe that Ukraine's victory is attainable, and second, to have no fear towards Putin, because Putin is a political animal who can sense fear, and when he does, he becomes more aggressive. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Desperately needed ammunition is now headed for Ukraine after the U.S. approved a new batch of military aid for Kyiv. We're told the ammunition is being shipped out rapidly. And the possibility of sending more Patriot air defense systems to Kyiv could be up for discussion this hour at a virtual meeting of the Ukraine Contact Group. For more on all this, check out the Ukrainian Foreign Minister's full interview on the Amanpour hour. That's this Saturday at 11 a.m. in New York, at 4 p.m. in London. 
 
All right. Right now, around 100 prisoners are on the run in Nigeria after heavy rainfall destroyed part of the prison complex. Officials are urging the public to be on the lookout for inmates who escaped the facility in Suleja in Niger state, and some of the inmates have now been captured and taken into custody. 
 
Stephanie Busari is in Lagos, Nigeria, with the very latest. Stephanie, some of the inmates have since been captured. But, what is the latest on the search for others?
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA: Yes, a remarkable story. And what we are hearing is that some -- that manhunt is still underway, and 108 prisoners are still being looked for in this -- for this -- in this prison break. And residents have also been speaking up because this prison is actually in a residential area, and they described hearing gunshots as the prison authorities chased after the inmates in what we are learning is a medium correctional facility. We don't know the makeup of the inmates, but some of them may be categorized as dangerous criminals. So, that's what we're learning so far. 
 
And we're in the height of the rainy season here in in Nigeria, and heavy downpours and a storm weakened the perimeter fence and parts of this building, which led to the collapse of the building and allowed the inmates escape.
 
WHITFIELD: Stephanie, what's the forecast now, and does the forecast threaten more potential damage flooding, the kind of compromising of structures just like that?
 
BUSARI: Yes. I mean, it is rainy season here. Much torrential rain and storms are expected in various parts of the country. But, the fact of the matter is that many of Nigeria's prisons are very old and dilapidated. And even their Interior Minister has been speaking out about this. Many of them suffer from overcrowding, and he has been at the site himself. But, the Interior Minister Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo saying that he needs something needs to be done. Take a listen to what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OLUBUNMI TUNJI-OJO, NIGERIAN INTERIOR MINISTER: If I look at the environmental, it shows that we need to relocate a lot of our correctional centers and we need to relocate them away from city center. This was a facility that was built to have 250. Before the incident that happened, we had 499. This goes to what we keep talking about, about overcrowding in our correctional centers.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[08:45:00]
 
BUSARI: The minister there talking about overcrowding in that prison. And this is a common feature across correctional facilities in the country. Some of the prisoners are waiting on remand for years without convictions as well. So, it's possible that some of the people that escaped are not even convicted criminals. So, a lot needs to be done. Prison breaks have been very common here. We've reported on at least 10 in the past couple of years. So, Nigerian authorities really having to get to grips with that, Erica (SIC)?
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. All right. Stephanie Busari, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Still to come, it was a moment of groundbreaking history for South Africa and the world. But, 30 years after the landmark election that brought Nelson Mandela to power, how does the Rainbow Nation fare now? We'll take a closer look.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Saturday marks 30 years since the historic election that brought Nelson Mandela to power in post-apartheid South Africa. It was a time of great hope for the future. But, 30 years later, economic inequality still plagues the country, and crime and corruption are major problems. 
 
CNN's David McKenzie reflects on the state of affairs ahead of next month's critical elections.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SETH MAZIBUKO, SOUTH AFRICAN LIBERATION HERO: It was actually a corner of death. 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Liberation icon Seth Mazibuko lived the painful history of this country.
 
MAZIBUKO: Students were coming from that direction and police were coming from direction. That morning of June 16, 1976, this was where the students who were marching peacefully. They were raising their hands and fingers of peace. They were given bullets.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Protesting the apartheid state and its racist education system.
 
MAZIBUKO: I still feel guilty today that I led students and children out of the classroom to be killed.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Their sacrifice and the sacrifices of later generations helped topple the violent apartheid state, birthing a peaceful democratic South Africa, the Rainbow Nation, where everyone can vote. But, for Mazibuko, 30 years on, the rainbow has faded. 
 
MCKENZIE: Has the leadership of this country respected the sacrifices that you made?
 
MAZIBUKO: Sold out. 
 
MCKENZIE: Sold out. 
 
MAZIBUKO: Many of the leaders that were supposed to be leading, they left this community. They left the very people that they're fighting for.
 
MCKENZIE: When thousands of students were bravely marching down these streets, they were fighting for a better future for South Africa. But, decades later, here is a staggering statistic. 
 <br>[08:50:00]
 
More than 80 percent of grade fours cannot read. 
 
Has it gotten worse over the 18 years of you being at the school? 
 
PRINCE MULWELA, TEACHER, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: Yes. It's becoming worse and worse. 
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): At Morris Isaacson High School, famous for its role in 1976, teachers like Prince Mulwela say that jobs in education are given to the politically connected and corruption is rife. Primary students now come to his classes unprepared, he says. Corruption watchdogs call it a silent crisis. 
 
MULWELA: We're living in a world in South Africa where it's all about politics. Everything is being politicized. So, the education system is also being politicized. So, that is the reason why probably we're experiencing such problems. 
 
ATLEGANG ALCOCK, STUDENT, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: I feel honored being in the school because then I get to learn about history. 
 
MBALI MSIMANGA, STUDENT, MORRIS ISAACSON HIGH SCHOOL: Some put their lives in danger for a better future, for better education.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): I spoke to two leading students at Morris Isaacson. They are proud of their school, but acutely aware of the challenges that lie ahead. 
 
MCKENZIE: Is there enough opportunity for young people like yourselves in this country? 
 
ALCOCK: Right now? No.
 
MSIMANGA: It's going to be a struggle. Yeah, and it is scary for us to be sitting at home and doing nothing.
 
ALCOCK: Especially when you know that you went to university for so long, and you have a degree a qualification but you're still struggling to get a job because of the unemployment rates.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Those rates are some of the world's highest, an uncertain future despite the bitter struggles of the past. 
 
David McKenzie, CNN, Soweto
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Moments ago, former U.S. President Donald Trump arriving at the courthouse in Manhattan for day four of testimony in his criminal hush money trial. First up on the stand when court resumes in about 30 minutes from now, former National Enquirer publisher David Pecker. 
 
All right. You could call it love at 35,000 feet. It's not every day you hear a pilot make an announcement like this one. Here is CNN's Jeanne Moos.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is your captain speaking, to the woman he loves, prepare for turbulence, the emotional car.
 
CAPAIN KONRAD HANC, LOT POLISH AIRLINES (Interpreted): On today's flight, there is a very special person. 
 
MOOS (voice-over): LOT Polish Airlines pilot Konrad Hanc was referring to his flight attendant girlfriend, Paula. A year and a half ago --
 
HANC (Interpreted): I met the most wonderful person that completely changed my life. 
 
MOOS (voice-over): -- met her on a flight to Krakow, Poland. So, on a similar flight to Krakow, the pilot with eyes brimming let fly the question. 
 
HANC (Interpreted): You are my greatest dream come true. This is why I have to ask you a favor, honey. Will you marry me? 
 
MOOS (voice-over): It had all the trappings of a rom-com. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Will you marry me? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, yes, yes. She will marry you.
 
MOOS (voice-over): And yes, the flight attendant will marry the pilot.
 
PAULA, FLIGHT ATTENDANT, LOT POLISH AIRLINES (Interpreted): Of course I will. I don't know if this is the right hand for this. 
 
MOOS (voice-over): In the golden age of flying, flight attendants once parted the waters. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I should've been a pilot. 
 <br>[08:55:00]
 
HANC (Interpreted): She said yes.
 
MOOS (voice-over): LOT Polish Airlines posted the video on Facebook, commenters posted romantic gifts, "love is in the air", although the plane was actually on the ground the entire proposal, but these two are walking on clouds with or without the airplane. 
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
MOOS (voice-over): Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, I love it. Beautiful. Congrats to them. But, of course, when it does take off, I surely hope it was the pilot who was flying, just a little too emotional and didn't fly to pull it together. 
 
All right. Thank you so much for joining me here in the CNN Newsroom. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. CNN's special coverage of Donald Trump's hush money trial is up next with Paula Newton in New York and Lynda Kinkade in Atlanta. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)