Headline: Quest Means Business
Sub-headline: EU Leaders Agree On More 50 Billion Funding For Ukraine; Farmers Across Europe Take To The Streets; Austin: It's A Dangerous Moment In The Middle East: Michigan School Shooter's Mother Testifies In Her Own Defense; Items From "The Crown" Up For Auction In London. Aired 3-4p ET

Aired February 01, 2024 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:00:20]
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: We have an hour to go before the close of trade on Wall Street. The markets, very different mood from the 
 
 last couple of days.
 
We are now up quite sharply nearly one percent for the Dow. The other major markets are also higher. We'll get to reasons and possibilities in a 
 
 moment.
 
The markets and the events of the day, the main events of the day: EU chief encourages the US to do its fair share for Ukraine after Europe approves 50 
 
 billion euros in new funding.
 
Outside of that meeting, raucous protests from farmers, the discontent is finding a voice across the continent.
 
And the closest outcome to riding in a royal coach, a tour of Bonhams auction of memorabilia from "The Crown." Absolutely.
 
Live from New York, Thursday, February 1st, new month. I'm Richard Quest on February, as elsewhere, I mean business.
 
Good evening.
 
We begin tonight, President Zelenskyy has welcomed as a clear signal of support, Europe's decision to approve 50 billion euros in aid. That's about 
 
 $54 billion.
 
The current plan is to use the interest on the income from frozen Russian assets to fund the package. More than $200 billion worth of assets are 
 
 within EU jurisdiction.
 
All 27 members agreed, Hungary lifted its veto and President Zelenskyy said the unanimous decision is crucial in making it clear that Europe is behind 
 
 Ukraine in a united way.
 
Krisjanis Karins is Latvia's foreign minister, he joins me now.
 
In the run up to the vote, I got an indication it was going to happen, but what did you do to buy off Viktor Orban's opposition?
 
KRISJANIS KARINS, LATVIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: Well, I don't think there's any talk of buying off opposition, I think the Hungarian prime minister is very 
 
 clear that all of Europe was united, insisting that we come together and he joined everyone else. And one could say that in the European Union, we have 
 
 gotten our act together. It is a very clear decision, a unanimous decision, a very clear signal for Ukraine that they will have our undivided financial 
 
 support over the next four years.
 
It's a very good signal to Europeans that we are back on the same page and it is a very clear signal to Russia that Europe is not only standing behind 
 
 Ukrainian words, we've now made a clear commitment for the next four years to provide the necessary funding as well.
 
QUEST: The attention will turn to the United States, which has got its own funding difficulties. Zelenskyy says tonight, this is a clear signal of 
 
 support, one which the US can take, and indeed, President von der Leyen says, we've done our bit, now it's time for you to do yours.
 
Why should Europe be confident that the US will provide their funding when everything we've heard so far suggests they won't?
 
KARINS: Well, I think if American politicians take a hard look at their own self-interest, their self-interest is, of course, in making sure that 
 
 Russia does not win this war. Russia is trying to overturn the rules based system that the US has, in a sense underwritten since the end of the Second 
 
 World War. In a sense, this is the direct challenge to the system that they've set up and the way to make sure that that system holds is to 
 
 provide the support to Ukraine.
 
QUEST: I often -- you know, I'm familiar with the argument that if Ukraine, God forbid, were to fall, then, you know, Russia's line moves ever closer 
 
 towards the EU and of course, to your own country. How realistic is this idea that Putin would threaten an EU country? I mean, obviously, there's 
 
 the NATO aspect, but would actually saber rattle against an EU country such as your own?
 
KARINS: Well, I think it must be understood that Russia will not stop of its own accord. It can only be stopped.
 
Ukraine is now in the frontline. Ukraine is fighting. Ukraine has the will and the ability. They simply need the funds and the ammunition in order to 
 
 do the job that they're already doing.
 <br>[15:05:00]
 
If the EU has come through, we're expecting and hoping that the US will come through as soon as well with their commitments. But if Ukraine were to 
 
 fail, this would be a danger, actually a potential threat to all of Europe, and indeed, to the broader world, because Russia would have learned the 
 
 lesson, might can make right, might makes right and let's continue.
 
How they will continue? We don't know. That's why we have to make sure we stop them now and it is cheaper to stop them now than to do that sometime 
 
 in the future.
 
QUEST: Lord Cameron, the foreign minister, your counterpart in the UK, he said it was all rather reminiscent of the 1930s for foreign ministers, as 
 
 you face this threat and the idea of preventing the aggression from escalating. Do you subscribe to that view, as you look at the scene in 
 
 Europe?
 
KARINS: Well, certainly one reads history, and one starts to think that's what it must have felt like back then, but it really is right now a pretty 
 
 clear good versus evil. It doesn't get much starker than that.
 
And we on the democratic side, the side of the world that adheres to and understands the need for the rule of law, we need to band together, now is 
 
 the time.
 
QUEST: Sir, all right, last question, Minister, and I know this is going to sound mealy mouthed to you. Bearing in mind you've just provided 50 
 
 billion, which is a fortune. But I guess the question because when that runs out, the issue becomes, are you prepared to provide more?
 
KARINS: Latvia's answer is absolutely. We are already at one percent of GDP. The 50 billion is a naught point something percent of Europe's GDP, so 
 
 we have a lot of room to expand.
 
So this is not the final, and compared to what a country such as Latvia is doing, this is only a small part of actually what we could ultimately do.
 
QUEST: Minister, I'm grateful to you. Thank you, sir.
 
Let's go to Fred Pleitgen, who is with me. Fred is in Kyiv.
 
Fred, before we talk. Listen to what von der Leyen -- President von der Leyen says about this relationship. Now Europe has provided its funds, it 
 
 is time for others.
 
Have a listen, Fred, and will come to you after.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
URSULA VON DER LEYEN, EUROPEAN COMMISSION PRESIDENT: The European Council reconfirmed Europe's unwavering commitment to stand with Ukraine. We all 
 
 know that Ukraine is fighting for us, so we will support them with the necessary funding and provide them with the much needed predictability they 
 
 deserve.
 
And I think these 50 billion euros for four years also sent a very strong message to Putin.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: A message to Putin, a message to the United States. How is it all being received in Kyiv, Fred Pleitgen?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I'd say it's being received very well and I think there's a big sigh of relief that 
 
 we can hear echo throughout basically, the entire capital of Ukraine.
 
It came today from the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy who sent a video message thanking the European Union, and then also from the foreign 
 
 minister who said, look, Ukraine fatigue, as he put it is a myth. But I think there were several important things that Ursula von der Leyen said 
 
 there.
 
On the one hand, she was talking about the United States, she said how important it is for the United States to now get its house in order and 
 
 come on board and okay that military aid for Ukraine, which of course, is at least equally important, if not much more important to the Ukrainians, 
 
 then the big aid bill that came through today from the European Union.
 
If you go on the battlefront, into the frontlines here, Richard, in this country, you'd be surprised at how much American equipment, how much 
 
 American gear is on the ground there. That is certainly something that the Ukrainians really cannot do without if they're going to stay in this fight 
 
 in the long run.
 
But the other thing that I actually picked up from that soundbite from Ursula von der Leyen, which I think is really important, also for the 
 
 Ukrainians, is the word "predictability." And because of the fact that this Ukraine aid, the 50 billion euros is stretched over a four-year period 
 
 until 2027, that gives the Ukrainians a good piece of predictability in the coming years of aid that they're going to get.
 
They don't have to go from summit to summit from aid meeting to aid meetings to try and get new aid from European countries, from the European 
 
 Union. They know what they're going to get in the next couple of years.
 
And you know, one of the things that the European Union has really made a staple, they want to make a staple of their military aid to Ukraine is 
 
 ammunition and that certainly is something where the Ukrainian say it's the thing that they lack most, 105 millimeter artillery ammunition they say is 
 
 lacking on almost every battlefront.
 
The Russians have a lot more of it. The Europeans have promised a lot of artillery ammunition, have so far not delivered to the extent that they 
 
 said they would and certainly, it seems as right now with production ramping up in the European Union, with these funds now being okayed by the 
 
 European Union, that the Ukrainians can look forward to getting a lot more of that aid, a lot more of that ammunition coming from Europe very soon -- 
 
 Richard.
 <br>[15:10:16]
 
QUEST: Good to have you, Fred Pleitgen, thank you.
 
Outside of the Parliament in Brussels, the farmers hurled eggs, horns were honked and roads were blocked. There were tractors galore, protesting over 
 
 rising costs, stricter rules and what they say now unfair competition and that includes from Ukraine.
 
It followed protests in France more today and resting concessions from the government. CNN's Melissa Bell is our correspondent in Paris.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): From Italy to Greece, Portugal and France, the anger of farmers has grown and spread, reaching 
 
 now all the way to the heart of the EU, too restrictive they say in terms of regulations, but with little to protect them from unfair competition, 
 
 especially from duty free Ukrainian meat.
 
Calls for action forcing themselves onto the agenda of leaders gathered in Brussels to discuss aid to Ukraine.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We are asking the leaders to review their laws. They talk about being greener, but if that happens, then there 
 
 will be land which isn't worked anymore and it is difficult enough, as it is.
 
BELL (voice over): Concerns echoed by farmers in France who've reached the edge of Paris where the police have drawn a line.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We can't earn a living. We are subject to enormous constraints and there are products coming in from 
 
 outside Europe that compete with us without having to apply the same rules that we're obligated to in order to produce.
 
BELL (on camera): Scenes like these have been playing out across the European Union, and whilst the grievances are fairly distinctive from 
 
 country to country, what unites the farmers across the EU is in the end, frustration with Brussels, the red tape, and bureaucracy regulations that 
 
 it imposes and the facts say the farmers that it doesn't protect them sufficiently from competition from outside the EU.
 
SEBASTIAN ABIS, FRENCH INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AND STRATEGIC AFFAIRS (through translator): Why is it that we tell a European farmer that he 
 
 cannot produce like this, but we allow food products to enter the European market which cost less. They have to produce food and increasingly, they 
 
 have to offer bioenergy, and bioeconomy.
 
They have to keep in mind, the environment, the landscape and sometimes regulations and standards. Not all measures are compatible or convergent.
 
BELL (voice over): The anger has spread across the EU and beyond the disruption now represents a political threat. With European elections just 
 
 a few months away, and leaders rushing to announce concessions.
 
GABRIEL ATTAL, FRENCH PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Our livestock farmers need specific support. That's why I'm announcing that we're 
 
 allocating 150 million euros to them in tax and social support starting this year and continuing on a permanent basis.
 
BELL (voice over): Yet so far little has calmed the farmers, united across Europe in their anger at Brussels which they say is killing their 
 
 livelihoods.
 
Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST: As we continue tonight, the mother of a high school gunman has told us -- has said she denies the allegation she neglected her son's mental 
 
 health issues. Jennifer Crumbley was taking the stand in her own defense in her manslaughter trial.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:16:10]
 
QUEST: The US Defense Secretary has admitted he mishandled the news of his prostate cancer diagnosis. Lloyd Austin said he should have been 
 
 transparent with his boss, the president.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, US SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: But I want to be crystal clear, we did not handle this right and I did not handle this right. I should have 
 
 told the president about my cancer diagnosis. I should have also told my team and the American public, and I take full responsibility. I apologize 
 
 to my teammates and to the American people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Now, he also discussed the Middle East, saying that it's time to take away even more capabilities from Iran's proxies after the drone attack 
 
 on US soldiers.
 
Oren Liebermann is with me from the Pentagon. Lots to talk through here. Let's quickly dispense if we may with prostate-gate cancer. The speed with 
 
 which the president made it clear he has full confidence in Lloyd Austin suggest this has gone away now. Everybody's played their role. He said 
 
 sorry and this has now gone away.
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: I would agree with that, effectively, yes, it was a fairly powerful apology, a very straightforward 
 
 apology that he began with in his opening statement and that is that's something we all kind of felt in the press corps asking him questions.
 
He was then asked repeatedly about his motivations for not coming forward and he basically reiterated what you just heard there. He said he was 
 
 shaken by it, it was a gut punch and his initial instinct was to keep it private and he acknowledges that was a mistake.
 
He was not asked to resign, he won't be resigning. And then there is a 30- day review that should wrap up here soon, which will give any sort of further guidance on how this plays out. But from the perspective of has 
 
 Austin taken responsibility? And have we moved on? I think both answers there are yes.
 
QUEST: So let's get to something more pressing. How long can  President Biden tell us, I've made my decision on Houthis in Iran and I'll do it and 
 
 Blinken saying it'll be sustained and onwards and upwards, and Austin today, but at some point, put up or shut up?
 
LIEBERMANN: The realistic answer is he probably can't wait that much longer, not only because of political pressure here, but also he has to 
 
 send the message the administration has promised to Iran, to its proxies, to the Iran-backed militias in the region that the US is serious.
 
And Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin wouldn't say when it's coming, but he did finish this press conference by saying they (they -- being the Iranian 
 
 backed groups) have a lot of capabilities. I have a lot more.
 
The response is coming, but you're right, Richard, the question now when and what does it look like? How powerful is it?
 
QUEST: But how much of all of this is just a recognition of the reality that you can keep -- I mean, and I'm not being disrespectful to those who 
 
 are dead or injured as a result, but it's a bit whack-a-mole, isn't it? You know, they're firing over there, hit them, they're firing over there, hit 
 
 them.
 
But these are people who have been well used to being hit from the air by the Saudis over many years.
 
LIEBERMANN: I think that's been one of the points that we've heard several times, not only from those who are calling on the US to do more here, but 
 
 also from experts and analysts who have pointed out, if your response is proportionate to these attacks on US forces, then all you're doing is 
 
 inviting these militias to sort of figure out where the US red line is.
 
The administration now trying to say, look, we're going to go further than we've gone before and send a more powerful message. But I don't think 
 
 there's the expectation that this ends it once and for all.
 
We have spoken with US officials who say Iran is becoming concerned by the level of the attacks they're seeing by the militias they back, but how much 
 
 influence or will they have to scale those attacks back, we'll find out after the US makes its move.
 <br>[15:20:01]
 
QUEST: Thank you very much, Oren Liebermann there.
 
Now the seven-time Formula One champion, Lewis Hamilton has announced that he is moving teams. He is joining Ferrari for the 2025 season.
 
He has had an amazing 11 years with Mercedes. He's proud of what they achieved together, he said, and now of course, he shares the record for the 
 
 most Formula One titles with Michael Schumacher.
 
He joined Mercedes, what -- 11 years ago.
 
Don Riddell is with me. Why is he going? I mean, Amanda Davis suggests it's because he hasn't been winning. But is a bad driver blaming his car or his 
 
 team?
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT HOST: You need a good car in Formula One, Richard, there is no doubt about that.
 
QUEST: Right.
 
RIDDELL: And Mercedes have been struggling, there is no doubt about that. Of course, what's interesting, whilst Mercedes has been really struggling 
 
 to keep up with Red Bull for the last couple of years, Ferrari have not been able to compete with either of them.
 
So arguably, that is why he's making a change. It's certainly a romantic move. Ferrari is the most kind of storied team in the history of Formula 
 
 One. It's something that I think many, many drivers at some stage in their careers will think about, wouldn't it be nice to drive for Ferrari one day, 
 
 and I guess Lewis Hamilton has come to that point.
 
He's got one more year with Mercedes, he will drive for them in 2024. He'll be 40 years of age by the time he gets behind the wheel of a Ferrari next 
 
 year, in 2025, and I think a lot of people are really, really excited about what this relationship could lead to.
 
It is being described by people who cover Formula One exclusively as the biggest driver transfer they can think of in the history of the sport. 
 
 That's how big a move this is. That is how excited people that follow this sport are about it and it is going to be fascinating to see what happens.
 
QUEST: So if you look at the Team Ferrari for next year, for '25, Charles Leclerc and Lewis, Hamilton, if you're the other guy, I mean, are you 
 
 delighted that he's joining? Are you worried that he sucks the oxygen from it? Do you fear --
 
Because I've always been fascinated, by the way that the two drivers in any team, essentially, are teammates and arch rivals.
 
RIDDELL: Yes, you're right. I mean, Charles Leclerc was the big dog in the relationship he's had for the last few years. Now, he won't be.
 
I guess, you have to kind of look at it in several different ways. Competition between drivers is surely a good thing. Bringing an experienced 
 
 hand as Lewis Hamilton clearly is a proven winner, arguably the greatest driver in the history of the sport. Surely bringing him into the team is 
 
 good for the team, and therefore good for everybody.
 
But of course, these guys all have massive egos. And so you know, whatever Charles Leclerc is saying about it right now, what he thinks privately 
 
 might be slightly different.
 
QUEST: And the other thing about, you know, it's not as if Hamilton has been promiscuous in his career. I mean, he was with McLaren for a good six, 
 
 seven years. He has been with Mercedes for 11 years. So it's not --
 
He is sort of, hasn't he?
 
RIDDELL: Yes, I don't think anybody would begrudge him this move. I mean, he's been associated with Mercedes since he was a kid. I mean, it's what? 
 
 Seventeen-year association with Mercedes. So yes, by some standards, he has been a very, very loyal servant, working hard and, you know, exclusively 
 
 committed to and devoted to the teams that he's driven for, but he has been with Mercedes a long time. And clearly, it is time to do something 
 
 different.
 
QUEST: Good to see you, oh, that's an important message. Thank you very much, Don Riddell, either that or get some more milk on the way.
 
RIDDELL: It's the latter, unfortunately.
 
QUEST: Thank you, Don Riddell, good to see you.
 
Now, it is not exactly a Formula One. But on my recent travels in Mongolia, I traded a steering wheel for stirrups. One of my favorite journeys of the 
 
 past year.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: This is gorgeous. Look at those mountain crags right ahead of me and the scenery. I mean, it doesn't get much better than this.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Absolutely, and far away from those rolling green hills, that is one of the most remote places on earth, the Gobi Desert in Mongolia, home to 
 
 the largest dinosaur fossil reservoir in the world, and its famous flaming cliffs.
 
You can see them for yourself. You'll need a guide like the one we hear from today in our "Spirit of Mongolia."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): An hour flight from Mongolia's capital, Ulaanbaatar plus another our car journey through the desert where animals 
 
 greatly outnumber people and horses roam wild, we arrive at our destination.
 <br>[15:25:13]
 
BUYANDELGER "BUYA" GANBAATAR, NOMADIC EXPEDITIONS INC.: I used to go to my grandparents, where they used to have livestock like sheep and goats and 
 
 camels. You know yaks and horses.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): For a decade, Buya has been leading tours here in the Gobi and across Mongolia.
 
GANBAATAR: Well, there are no road signs, so it's quite feasible to get, you know, the last in the Gobi Desert.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): Today, after a scenic detour to an array of sand dunes, we arrive at one of the most important dinosaur fossil sites 
 
 in the world.
 
GANBAATAR: You know, the paleontology is the central part of the Gobi Desert. Yes, the flaming cliffs is actually a really important place.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): Here, explorers discovered the first scientifically recognized dinosaur eggs a century ago.
 
GANBAATAR: So 70 million years ago, it used to be an oasis that's surrounded by the, you know, open water, spring and streams and the 
 
 dinosaur used to nest there, because it has, you know, three percent of iron ore in the soil content, and that's why during the sunset, it glows 
 
 orange, so that's why the name was given, the flaming cliffs.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): Buya's way of hospitality is his ability to show his guests the best of Mongolia's rich history and its diverse 
 
 landscapes.
 
GANBAATAR: Every day is different, and the good thing is I find the joy of what I'm doing. Sometimes I pinch myself to wake up.
 
The people always say to me, they said you are really proud of your country. So that gives me the motivation to work and present more and show 
 
 them more.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Oh, come on. You think, what a -- what a sunset, a beautiful sunset. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:31:05]
 
QUEST: More Richard Quest. More QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. As we continue together, the mother of the Michigan school shooter said her husband was 
 
 responsible for storing guns in their house if he testifies in her own defense. Will bring you the latest. 
 
And the auction house in London that's offering items from the series "The Crown." We're going to have a look at exactly behind the curtain. 
 
Only after I've given you the news headlines. This is CNN, and here on this network, the news always comes first. 
 
The U.S. is announcing sanctions on Israeli settlers in the West Bank. Officials said in response to increased violence by Jewish settlers against 
 
 Palestinians. This rally was held on Jerusalem on Sunday where several cabinet ministers were there from Israel. Washington says it's had frank 
 
 discussions about Israel, about the settler violence, and asked the authorities to take action against it. 
 
U.S. Central Command says it's destroyed in Houthi drone station in Yemen on Thursday. Officials say they carried out airstrikes on the station as 
 
 well as 10 drones. It's the latest in a series of attacks on Iran-backed groups. Weaponry have been targeting vessels in the Red Sea. Excuse me. 
 
Elon Musk says Tesla will ask shareholders to incorporate in the company in the state of Texas. It follows the Delaware court striking down his pay 
 
 package worth more than $50 billion. Musk responded by asking users on X whether Tesla should move its registration out of Delaware. 
 
The Bank of England held interest rates steady. Officials split on the right course of policies. Some members voted in actually raising rates, 
 
 while others were in favor of cutting. It's the first time since 2008 these policymakers have disagreed on the direction in which to move. 
 
The mother of the teenage gunman has taken the stand in the U.S. state of Michigan. She's been charged in connection to her husband's -- to her 
 
 son's, I beg your pardon, school shooting. Ethan Crumbley pleaded guilty to killing four classmates in 2021. The prosecutor say Crumbley's parents 
 
 ignored his warning signs and bought him a gun, and they've charged Jennifer and James Crumbley with involuntary manslaughter. Jennifer 
 
 Crumbley said she didn't think her son needed professional help. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENNIFER CRUMBLEY, MOTHER OF ETHAN CRUMBLEY: There's a couple of times where Ethan had expressed anxiety over taking tests, anxiety about what he 
 
 was going to do after high school, whether it was college, military, so he expressed those concerns to me but not to a level where I felt he needed to 
 
 go see a psychiatrist or a mental health professional. 
 
That's my son and Dexter, his kitten. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Dexter is mentioned in one of the tapes. Is that correct? 
 
CRUMBLEY: Yes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What -- how's Dexter mentioned? 
 
CRUMBLEY: When we're at the substation, I asked my son why. And he said because I just didn't take care of Dexter for me. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So when he said take care of Dexter, he's -- 
 
CRUMBLEY: Kill his kitten. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Jennifer Rodgers is with me. From what we've heard so far, what is the mother coming across as? 
 
JENNIFER RODGERS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Well, Richard, it's interesting because she has two goals, right? They're trying to humanize her in front 
 
 of this jury. And then they're trying to knock down some of the powerful evidence that's come in that demonstrates how many signs there were that 
 
 she should have known that her son was a danger. I think she's doing just OK. I think she could be doing a lot better to be honest. 
 
Her testimony, her affect is very flat, and while she has come up with explanations for text chains that have been introduced, they don't ring 
 
 particularly true to me, at least. 
 <br>[15:35:13]
 
Of course it only matters what the jury, but comparing her testimony so far at least to some of the prior testimony from people who were not the parent 
 
 of the shooter, you know, school counselors and others who were very, very emotional about what had happened, we haven't seen that from the mother at 
 
 least thus far. And so I think she's not doing particularly well. 
 
QUEST: Right. But the jury, many in the jury will be asking themselves either fairly or unfairly, if I had been in her situation, either I would 
 
 have done this or I wouldn't have known any more than she did about my child. How -- I mean, they got to stick to the evidence, but the evidence 
 
 as put forward will lead them to compare it to their own lives. 
 
RODGERS: Thats the jury system. That's why we have 12 regular citizens deciding cases. Jury of your peers, right, instead of a judge. They're 
 
 supposed to bring in their life experiences. Of course, as you said, they need to evaluate the evidence and the judge will instruct them on the law. 
 
 But in terms of things like, you know, what would I have done, it's hard to keep those thoughts out I think when you're deliberating for sure. 
 
QUEST: There's a high bar here, isn't there? Because to find guilty a mother of the child on involuntary manslaughter, the level of negligence 
 
 would have to be so much greater than what is reasonable? 
 
RODGERS: That's right. It's gross negligence. She's not being charged with being a bad parent. She's being charged with actually causing these deaths. 
 
 And the standard is gross negligence. The prosecutors have to prove that she knew of the danger, that she did not take ordinary care, and that it 
 
 was reasonably foreseeable that people would be hurt because she didn't take ordinary care and doing something about what she knew about the 
 
 danger. 
 
In other words, that her son would harm somebody. So it is a high standard. That's why we haven't really seen cases like this before. But there's a lot 
 
 of evidence that she did know the extent of her son's troubles and of course she knew about the gun and didn't notify anyone in authority about 
 
 that. So, you know, we'll see how the testimony continues, particularly cross-examination I think will be really instrumental as prosecutors probe 
 
 her and what she did and didn't know and what she should and shouldn't have done here. And then ultimately it'll be up to the jury. 
 
QUEST: And a conviction here to an extent, to come here obviously that's up to the jury. But a conviction here would add quite considerably to the body 
 
 of jurisprudence of what parents are should and could have done. And I know it's a matter of evidence. And the law is relatively straightforward in 
 
 terms of have you met that evidentiary burden, but a conviction here would certainly send a very strong conviction that's not overturned on appeal, on 
 
 legal grounds, would send a very strong message of what the duty of a parent is.
 
RODGERS: Well, I think it would give prosecutors in future similar situations, school shootings and other mass crimes like that, the thought 
 
 that it could be done. Right now each state has its own set of laws, different elements for the offenses and so on. And of course, every case 
 
 would be different on the facts. But I think if they get a conviction here and it sticks I think that that will give prosecutors another tool in 
 
 circumstances where they think that the parents were also liable. So, yes, I think everyone is watching it in part for that reason. And we'll see what 
 
 they do. 
 
QUEST: Glad to have -- good to have you with us. Thank you very much, Jennifer Rodgers joining me. Thank you very much. 
 
We will continue, it's QUEST MEANS BUSINESS, in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:41:44]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIAN SUMERS, FOUNDER AND EDITOR, THE AIRLINE OBSERVER: Hi, Richard, and everyone who works on QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. Congratulations on an amazing 
 
 15-year run. I'm Brian Sumers, one of your airline industry experts and I have to tell you there is no show in the world that better covers the 
 
 global airline industry than QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. 
 
And Richard, I have a message for you. You have to be the number one aviation geek in all of television news. Keep up the great work. 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR, "CNN THIS MORNING": Richard Quest, congratulations on 15 years, my friend. To the most magnetic person on 
 
 television, the most creative person on television, the only reporter I think to report from the slopes in Davos, but in all sincerity a shoulder 
 
 that I could always lean on. 
 
One of the first if not the first people here at CNN 15 years ago to believe in me, to give me a shot, to tell me hard truths when I need to 
 
 hear them, I love you so much as a friend and a colleague. I admire you deeply, and I cannot wait for the next 15 years with you. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: How wonderful. Thank you both. I'm very grateful. 
 
Now, fans of "The Crown," of which I am most certainly one, can take home a piece of the show if you're successful at the auction. Bonhams is 
 
 auctioning off props and costumes from the Netflix series. There's an already an online auction underway. The live auction takes place next week. 
 
 There are six seasons and there's plenty of which to choose. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST (voice-over): as I wonder through the collection from the series "The Crown," I can't but help feel a sense of deja vu. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: God save the Queen. In days of disillusion. However low we've been. To fire us and inspire us. God gave to us our Queen. 
 
CHARLIE THOMAS, HEAD OF PRIVATE COLLECTIONS, BONHAMS: What's so brilliant about this, it does work. If you've got some horses you can strap them to 
 
 it and off you go. It's under good authority. This is far more comfortable and you know why. 
 
QUEST: Oh. Did the rituals right now. Here we go. 
 
THOMAS: So it's very well sprung. 
 
QUEST: Yes. So this is -- oh, it's a bit bouncy, isn't it? Which is a lot more than the original. Now who is going to buy this? And for what purpose 
 
 do you think? 
 
THOMAS: Yes. I mean, I can imagine this in a theme park. I can imagine it as an exhibition in a museum. I can imagine it going to Las Vegas. 
 
So the costumes play a really, really important part in the sale and the exhibition. And this is, this costume here, for example, is possibly one of 
 
 the most popular in this exhibition. It's of course the dress inspired by the revenge dress. 
 
QUEST: The estimate? 
 
THOMAS: 8,000 to 12,000. But it's just an iconic, iconic dress and, you know, the real one is unlikely coming to market. So why not buy this one? 
 <br>[15:45:04]
 
So this is rather lovely. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She recovered quickly for one last wave. 
 
THOMAS: This is bigger. 
 
QUEST: So it's wider. 
 
THOMAS: They scaled it up because John Lithgow, who played Winston Churchill, is so much taller than Winston Churchill was. So that is the 
 
 level of detail that they went. 
 
So I think this is one of the important in auction sales. So this is the model that Imelda Staunton comes in in season six, and when she comes face-
 
 to-face with her funeral model. 
 
Her scene, I hope it's great to museum. I mean, it is -- you know, this is true to life as well. It was in the show. But this was made after the 
 
 Queen's royal funeral. 
 
QUEST: The sale of the crowns, artifacts, knick-knacks, and memorabilia will be another test of just how successful and popular was the TV show. 
 
 Now we have the chance to own our own little bit of royal and television history. 
 
Richard Quest, CNN, on their way to Buckingham Palace. Drive on. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST: Auction houses of course they have that air of distinction and elitism. But of course like the rest of us, everybody has to go for a wider 
 
 demographic. U.K. managing director of Bonhams told me how she's trying to bring in this fresh audience. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
INDIA PHILLIPS, U.K. MANAGING DIRECTOR, BONHAMS: Well, I think the fact that you said the series was so iconic kind of hits the nail on the head. 
 
 It's the whole history of the royal family, the emotional connection that people feel for them, that has translated from the television series over 
 
 to the auction. 
 
QUEST: How important are the celebrity auctions? 
 
PHILLIPS: They're very important increasingly so actually. I feel like the way that our market is moving, people are increasingly interested in 
 
 provenance and they want to own part of the magic of a collection or a celebrity, a movie star. So to take an example of something like Roger 
 
 Moore's cufflinks or Michael Caine's cigarette lighter, it's not the object itself that is particularly of value. It's the sheen that that name, that 
 
 person, their history has kind of attached to that object that makes it so valuable. 
 
QUEST: Do events and sales like this help you and the industry in a sense show that auctions can be for everyone? 
 
PHILLIPS: I think that's the beauty of this new era in the auction world is what we've seen in the demographic of buyers that we have coming through, 
 
 totally different demographic, different geographies, are much younger audience and really interacting with auctions. So a sale like this is 
 
 really interesting because we've had that kind of post-pandemic in the digital side. But for example, the exhibition for "The Crown" has brought 
 
 in so many people into the rooms who would normally not feel, I don't know, able to come into an auction house. 
 
We want people to come in and interact with auctions, to understand that it's actually a really transparent, welcoming environment. 
 
QUEST: The new younger people coming to you online, you have also had to learn therefore how to market to them. In other words, you couldn't carry 
 
 on sailing majestically on as this and nailed it, could you? 
 
PHILLIPS: Absolutely not. Absolutely no. 
 
QUEST: So what changes did you make? How does it feel different? 
 
PHILLIPS: We have marketed our sales in totally different ways, much more heavily reliant on social media, for instance. So we've changed that. We've 
 
 changed the way we form our sales. So having many more online only sales, so allowing people to kind of hop between lots to look back, refer, see 
 
 what material they want to buy in a much more relaxed way than kind of hanging on the phone waiting for your lot to come up, which has its 
 
 qualities and is very exciting. 
 
So I think it's about giving those two different experiences that really elevated, very exciting, nerve wracking, possessive live sale with an 
 
 auctioneer, but also making it much more approachable, democratic, through the online only sales. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST: And with a scratch of his nose, he bought the coach, or something like that. Apparently it is a myth that if you scratch your nose you bought 
 
 something. 
 
Fifteen years you and I have been talking to each other. My goodness gracious, how we've managed it. There have been thousands of profitable 
 
 moments along the way. We look back at the first and what makes a good, profitable moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:52:34]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TED WEISBERG, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT, SEAPORT SECURITIES: Congratulations Richard Quest and CNN for 15 years of trying to explain the crazy world of 
 
 Wall Street to the public. He's done a great job. Richard and his team are at it every day and they help make whatever we're doing in Wall Street more 
 
 understanding, though I would say 15 years, he's just getting started. This will be my 63rd year. So he's got a long way to go. 
 
Congratulations, Richard, for a job well done. 
 
ALLAN KILVUKA, CEO, KENYA AIRWAYS: I'd like to wish Richard Quest and Richard means business, happy 15th anniversary. Well done. Keep it up. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: I think I've still got in my office the blanket that I nicked from one of their flights. Thank you very much to both of those. 
 
Now you know very well at the end of the program, we often have or usually have a profitable moment. For 15 years it's always more than just the 
 
 money, the dollars, cents, euro and yen. And it always has been more about what's going on since the very start. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST: The profitable moment came about because we wanted to end the show with a thought, something you could take away with. 
 
This time of night on the program, we're going to leave you with a thought. It's going to be a chance for basically to look forward to the day ahead, 
 
 wrap up the day that we've had. 
 
It's not a grand thought. Sometimes it's a silly thought, sometimes it's an important thought. 
 
We've thought about calling it a bonus moment, a profitable time. In the end, we've decided it's simple called a profitable moment. 
 
We called it the profitable moment, and people have constantly, constantly berated me when I say whatever you're up to, I hope it's profitable. And 
 
 they say, ah, you're all about money, Quest. We always knew it's about money. No. The word profitable is used to describe money. But as I wrote to 
 
 one viewer once, you can have a profitable day in the garden. You have a very profitable afternoon decorating. It merely means you have made gains, 
 
 and that's really important because we are not about money. We are about that which improves your life. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: That which improves. We'll have a profitable moment in just a moment after I've shown you what's happening on Wall Street. What a sort of week 
 
 it's been. So strong gains now with the Dow up nearly 1 percent. (INAUDIBLE), it's been climbing pretty much all day. 
 <br>[15:55:02]
 
And if you look at the underlyings you'll see why. Don't often see Merck on top but it's had strong earnings. Apple is reporting after the bell, the 
 
 shares are also higher. Honeywell is at the bottom of the list. Again, you know, just get the tone of the market. I always think when we show you the 
 
 30, it's not how much any one or others done? Here you clearly see tech is having a better day than it did yesterday. 
 
Boeing hasn't given up much of its 5 percent gain from yesterday, but the overwhelming preponderance of gains and you end up with a good strong 
 
 session over the course of the day. And as always, we will have a profitable moment after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
QUEST: Tonight, profitable moment. What makes a good profitable moment? And it can't be too much of a grand thought that we lose ourselves in the way, 
 
 and it can be so simple and obvious that you think, oh, don't waste my time with that on old nonsense. 
 
For instance, tonight, we have a really good one. Ukraine and the decision by the E.U. So they managed to get Viktor Orban to not oppose or veto that 
 
 $50 billion and that can now go to Ukraine. It's a very strong message from Europe. But, you know the old line, it may be necessary, but it's not 
 
 sufficient because until the United States signs on with its own, then to use that phrase here a day late and a billion short, the United States has 
 
 to come in with its own plan, its own increased aid for Ukraine if only because it's the United States that will provide the bulk of the arms and 
 
 indeed the support. 
 
Can the U.S. do it? Well, if it doesn't, then Europe is going to be looking at providing even more support. After all, this war is on Europe's 
 
 doorstep. So when President von der Leyen says today that the Europe has done it's bit the United States quite rightly will say, well, so you 
 
 should, it's on your doorstep. About whether the U.S. can now follow on will indeed be a far trickier problem enmeshed in U.S. politics as far as 
 
 the eye can see. Now that's what makes a good profitable moment. 
 
And that's QUEST MEANS BUSINESS for tonight. I'm Richard Quest in New York. Whatever you're up to in the hours ahead, I hope it's profitable. 
 
 Literally, whatever you're up to. Have a good day on the Dow. Leave with that. 
 
END