Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Talks Underway in Cairo for Ceasefire despite Israel's Absence; Schiff is Front-Runner to Fill Feinstein Senate Seat; France makes Abortion a Constitutional Right; Moscow: China & Russia Discuss Potential Military AI Use; Archeologists Unearth Part of Egyptian Pharaoh's Statue. Aired 9- 9:45a ET

Aired March 05, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this is the scene at the U.S. State Department. Secretary of State Antony Blinken meeting with the 
 
 Qatari Prime Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani. Progress on hostage negotiations will be high on the agenda there. It is 9 am in 
 
 Washington, 6 pm here in Abu Dhabi. I'm Becky Anderson, and this is "Connect the World".
 
Also happening right now, voters around the United States are hitting the polls for a Super Tuesday showdown. The results of today's voting could 
 
 solidify Donald Trump and Joe Biden as the presidential candidates for November's election. We will be keeping you up to date with these two major 
 
 stories with live reports over the next two hours.
 
And the markets in New York will open in about 30 minutes from now and if these are any indication see futures markets, suggesting a mixed pretty 
 
 flat open. Will we begin with a close look at events around the world designed to find a solution to suffering on the ground in Gaza.
 
There is a real sense of urgency on the part of the U.S. evidence in the Secretary of State's agenda today. Right now, Antony Blinken is meeting 
 
 with the Prime Minister of Qatar, a key broker in these hostage and ceasefire talks. Later, he will sit down with the Israeli War Cabinet 
 
 Member Benny Gantz whose presence in Washington is causing controversy in Tel Aviv.
 
While at the same time, we have an update just in to CNN on talks happening in Cairo, these events are not happening in isolation. So let's look at 
 
 them are all. Jennifer Hansler following Blinken's busy day and Alex Marquardt is covering talks in Cairo. Let's start with you, Jen in 
 
 Washington. What will Blinken hope to achieve with these meetings today? Let's start with the meeting with the Qatari Prime Minister.
 
JENNIFER HANSLER, CNN STATE DEPARTMENT REPORTER: Well, good morning, Becky. We will see Blinken sit down with his Qatari counterpart in just a few 
 
 minutes to kick off these key strategic dialogue talks. We know that these talks are going to focus a lot on the ongoing discussions over that hostage 
 
 deal.
 
However, we expect them to address a whole range of issues that Qatar has been a key partner to the U.S. on, be it Afghanistan, other hostage issues. 
 
 But of course front and center will be how to resolve this situation in Gaza. 
 
How to get that ceasefire in place, that six weeks ceasefire that will allow aid to get in and to get the hostages out. We know that these talks 
 
 are ongoing and thus far have yet to yield a progress aid result to get to that ceasefire.
 
ANDERSON: That's right. Now Alex, we are getting word out of Egypt. We know that there have been delegations from Hamas, Qatar and the U.S. in Cairo 
 
 this week. What are we hearing?
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: And notably, not the Israelis, Becky, the Israelis have been insisting that they need from 
 
 Hamas a list of the hostages who remain in Gaza who are alive and those who are dead. So those who could be expected to be exchanged in a ceasefire 
 
 deal.
 
Hamas has not yet provided that list. And so Israel in a form of protest did not show up to those talks in Cairo. Now these talks in the past few 
 
 days in Cairo come after discussions in Paris among senior officials from Israel, Egypt, Qatar and the U.S. of course, those are followed by talks in 
 
 Doha.
 
So these are ongoing negotiations, Becky, they appear to be progressing but slowly it is clear that the negotiators are still struggling to get a 
 
 ceasefire deal across the finish line. We heard from the Egyptian Foreign Minister. He spoke with the press last night saying that we have not yet 
 
 reached a point of where a ceasefire can be achieved.
 
State media in Egypt today, denying that the talks have broken down, but admitting that there are some difficulties. Now, on this notion of Israel, 
 
 demanding a list of the remaining hostages held by Hamas, held in Gaza.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
CNN has heard from a senior Hamas official who said that there is no way to know the fate of these Israeli hostages except after agreeing on a 
 
 ceasefire and starting the implementation. That is something similar to what we heard during the first pause in the fighting ended hostage releases 
 
 back in November, where essentially every single day Hamas would come up with a new group of hostages to be released.
 
The following day, we have reported for a long time that these hostages are spread out across the Gaza Strip perhaps held by different groups, not just 
 
 Hamas. And so what Hamas is saying here is that they need this ceasefire to get into place in order to come up with that list.
 
That is something that Israel is likely to reject. So here with there are still some major sticking points, Becky, among them, not just the question 
 
 of this list, but also the question of this ratio, how many hostages will be released for every Palestinian prisoner, who is going to be released?
 
There are also questions about the IDF presence in Gaza. Will they pull back during a temporary ceasefire? And that is what we are talking about 
 
 right now. Israel is refusing to talk about a longer term or permanent ceasefire. And what the U.S. has been insisting on increasingly the past 
 
 few days is what they're calling an immediate ceasefire for at least six weeks, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Jennifer, what is Benny Gantz doing in Washington and why is this causing controversy in Tel Aviv?
 
HANSLER: Well, this is a big move for Benny Gantz to come to Washington to meet with these key Biden Administration officials when he is the political 
 
 rival of Benjamin Netanyahu, the Prime Minister there in Israel. He is seen as perhaps the leading opponent to Netanyahu.
 
And we know that Netanyahu likes to have control over these meetings. He likes to know what is going on. We have seen him convene group meetings 
 
 when Biden Administration -- such as Secretary Blinken have gone to Israel in the past. So it is a big deal for him to have come here to the United 
 
 States to hold these unilateral meetings on his own.
 
We know that Israel took the extraordinary step to block their own ambassador from coming to these meetings with any gods. Now the U.S. was 
 
 asked why it was still important to meet with Gantz at this moment, given the controversy we are seeing in Israel. And they say that his role on that 
 
 war cabinet is what makes these meetings important.
 
They say he has a significant voice on that cabinet that he has influence on that cabinet. And that is crucial right now as the U.S. presses the 
 
 Israeli government to allow more humanitarian aid into the Gaza Strip. We know that is going to be the top focus of that meeting with Blinken in just 
 
 a few hours.
 
He is expected to press him on the need to open more crossings for that aid, particularly in the north to ensure that safety is for those convoys 
 
 that are going into Gaza with that crucially needed aid. So we will see if he is able to actually bring that influence back to Israel with him, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you both really important stuff, a very, very big week. Lots of talk about trying to get a ceasefire deal short term done by 
 
 Ramadan. That is likely to be March the 10th Sunday this week, a lot going on ahead of that. A United Nations team has found "clear and convincing" 
 
 information that hostages in Gaza have been sexually abused.
 
The U.N. special envoy on sexual violence said her team has also found reasonable grounds to believe that sexual violence against hostages by 
 
 Hamas fighters is continuing to happen. Well it comes as U.N.'s main agency in Gaza UNRWA is accusing Israel of detaining and mistreating its staff 
 
 members.
 
The agency's spokesperson said on Monday that staffers had been coerced by Israeli forces into giving, "false confessions" about the organization's 
 
 alleged links to Hamas. CNN's Paula Hancocks is with me, and Paula, let's start with this U.N. report. It found clear and convincing information that 
 
 hostages in Gaza have been sexually abused. What more do we know at this point?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, this was a U.N. team that visited the region at the end of January for two weeks they spoke to survivors of 
 
 the attack. They spoke to hostages that had been released already from Gaza also witnesses and they say they viewed about 50 hours of footage of the 
 
 October 7th attack.
 
They say that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there was conflict related sexual violence on that day within the Hamas attack 
 
 itself.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
And also that some of the hostages within Gaza have been sexually abused and reasonable grounds to believe that it is still ongoing. Now the team 
 
 did say that they found some resistance in trying to gather this information. They said there was a lack of trust in some institutions, 
 
 including the U.N, so some of the victims themselves did not want to speak to them.
 
But this is what they found at this point. Hamas has denied its militants carried out any attacks on October 7th saying they're unfounded lies. But 
 
 this is certainly something that we have heard before in the U.N. team. This is really the most definitive report we've seen so far that this 
 
 happened as in and is continuing to happen potentially.
 
ANDERSON: The U.N. team also heard allegations of sexual violence perpetrated against Palestinian detainees in the occupied West Bank again. 
 
 What more do we know at this point?
 
HANCOCKS: So the team also went to Ramallah in the occupied West Bank, and they said they spoke to Palestinian men and women who had been incarcerated 
 
 and they said that there are allegations of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment.
 
So they say they had many allegations of both men and women saying that they had beatings, including in genital areas, threats of rape against 
 
 women, threats of rape against female members of a family for men and other allegations as well that we've reached out to the IDF to find out if they 
 
 have any comment about these allegations. And we're waiting to hear from them at this point.
 
ANDERSON: Paula Hancocks here with me in Abu Dhabi, following the story. Thank you. Well, the biggest most impactful voting day of the U.S. primary 
 
 season is happening today. It's Super Tuesday, with contests in 16 states and one U.S. territory. It is also a day that while indications will move 
 
 President Joe Biden and Donald Trump closer to cementing the Democratic and Republican presidential nominations.
 
It is important to note that just a fraction of eligible voters normally cast ballots in what are known as these American primaries, that small 
 
 percentage ultimately deciding their party's nominee for the most powerful office in the world. And there's more to look at today, beyond the delegate 
 
 count.
 
For Democrats, will there be any spillover from that uncommitted protest vote in last week's Michigan Primary? And for Republicans, how many voters 
 
 disenchanted with Trump will cast ballots for Nikki Haley and will she stay in the race beyond today? Let's break this down with Stephanie Elam who is 
 
 in Santa Ana in California.
 
The state with the most delegates on the line, of course today and part of the Super Tuesday contests for just the second time, Stephanie good to have 
 
 you. This the second most important day in a presidential year effectively for America, what's the view from California, traditionally, one of the 
 
 bluest states, more Democratic leaning states in the presidential race, and how might today's votes also impact the Senate?
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And Becky, that's the big question here. While a lot of people, like you said don't necessarily turn out for these 
 
 primary votes. What's really important here today in California, is that there is an open Senate seat. That is because Senator Dianne Feinstein 
 
 passed away in September.
 
So there's actually two votes that people come in to cast their vote have to answer. One, who do they want to finish out the end of Senator 
 
 Feinstein's term. And then two, who do they want to fill a full six year term beginning in January 2025. Right now, there are three U.S. 
 
 Representatives who are vying to take on that role that would be Adam Schiff, Katie Porter, as well as Barbara Lee.
 
Then on the Republican side, there's Steve Garvey, who does not have the name recognition that perhaps the other three do, except for in the world 
 
 of sports because he played for the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Diego Padres. So he is a baseball star here in California.
 
But what you were seeing in California, only the top two winners of today's contest will move on to the contest in November, meaning Adam Schiff, who 
 
 by far has raised the most money has the broadest support from the California Democratic Party. He is looking to try to narrow it down between 
 
 Democrats and Republicans.
 
So he's actually been targeting Steve Garvey in his ads hoping that Republicans come out and vote for him and thus getting rid of having to 
 
 deal with a very tough Democrat on Democrat battle come November here.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
So this is all to figure out who's going to take on this powerful position Adam Schiff did gain a lot of recognition during the first Trump 
 
 Impeachment Trial because he was the face of that trial. So a lot of people outside of California know him. So there is support. And you're right, 
 
 Becky, here in California, Democrats out way Republicans 221.
 
That is the reason why he is trying to go after this vote in this way. California is traditionally a very strong -- stronghold. So while no one's 
 
 really concerned or worried about who's going to win for the presidential primaries, there's a lot at stake when it comes to who's going to be the 
 
 new senator here from California replacing Dianne Feinstein, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, this is fascinating. It's good to have you, Stephanie. Thank you. Well just head on "Connect the World", CNN sees for itself for 
 
 outgunned Ukrainian forces are enduring on the front line, but Kyiv says it is having more success against Russia in the Black Sea. We'll explain after 
 
 this, plus celebrations in France where abortion is now a guaranteed freedom in the Constitution.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Ukraine's military is claiming another successful attack on a Russian warship. Kyiv says its drones hit the Sergey Kotov patrol ship the 
 
 latest in what Ukraine calls a string of defeats for Moscow's Black Sea Fleet. While at the same time a more challenging picture is emerging on 
 
 land where Kyiv's forces are being forced to ratio or ration ammunition.
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh has been reporting from the Ukrainian frontline and joins us now from Eastern Ukraine. And while Kyiv is reporting more success 
 
 against Russia in the Black Sea, Nick, you've been with Ukrainian forces on the front line on the ground. What have you been seeing?
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, look at this a bleak picture here you refer, rightly, Becky to the sort of 
 
 outlying events that marked success for Ukraine in areas they never would have thought they'd be hitting Russia hard in taking out the Sergey Kotov 
 
 patrol boats.
 
According to Defense Intelligence this morning, in the -- straight using some maritime drones, President Zelenskyy talking about 15 fighter jets of 
 
 Russia shot down in February 7 in the last week alone and then hitting a bridge 500 miles inside of Russia that these are things that are taking 
 
 Russia by surprise and changing the calculus.
 
But it does not distract from frankly, how bleak the picture is on the front lines. That is because they do not have Western aid and it is 
 
 something which Ukrainian troops very clearly say is likely to cost them their lives if not rectified immediately and to some degree it may be too 
 
 late.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
We're talking about a defensive line here that Ukraine tried to hold after they pulled out of Avdiivka, two weekends ago, and they're struggling badly 
 
 to do that. Here's what we --
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (voice-over): It's a lonely path ahead. The Russians have never been louder or closer. Occupied Bakhmut is just up the road. But now some 
 
 Ukrainian tank guns are silent just when they're needed most here, they don't have enough shells.
 
WALSH: Sometimes they just won't fire at all for a whole day, other days they'll be shooting constantly. And it is loud on the other side of that 
 
 hill, and it's sort of surreal to hear that sort of noise over there and see this tank unit having a ration --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have people, but without weapons. This is not a war you can win with a sword.
 
WALSH (voice-over): We -- they didn't fire a tool that day, or the day before or the next day. The silence here is what losing sounds like -- is 
 
 what these soldiers had to say.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If the American s don't give money what's going to happen? I think we're all going to die. Everybody who is here, we will be 
 
 no more.
 
WALSH: Is this the worst you've seen it?
 
GARRISON FOSTER, U.S. VOULTEER FIGHTER: Yeah, definitely. I think this year is going to be the worst year in the war. Oh, I do know that there are 
 
 certain units that they're running out of tanks.
 
WALSH: Oh, angry doesn't make you.
 
FOSTER: Yeah, I'm pissed. I'm absolutely pissed off. There's no point in trying to paint this in any sort of light where it's good for us. The 
 
 Russia takes Ukraine that's going to be very, very, very bad for us geopolitically.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (on camera): Yeah, I mean, obviously two disastrous for ordinary Ukrainians here just a glimpse of some of the international reaction to the 
 
 brutality we've seen from Russian occupation. Over the past two years now, the International Criminal Court has just issued warrants for the arrest of 
 
 two Russian commanders.
 
That's the first Russian military commanders to be accused of crimes in this way since the start of the war, and Vladimir Putin and his children's 
 
 rights ombudsman, Maria Lvova-Belova were also charged on the ICC. But these two Russian commanders are accused of firing essentially from the 
 
 Black Sea.
 
The Black Sea commanders, Admiral Viktor Sokolov and Lieutenant General Sergey Kobylash, they're accused of firing repeatedly against civilian 
 
 infrastructure and endangering civilian life over the past years or so marks I think frankly, an extraordinary moment where the crimes we see 
 
 against ordinary civilians who are committed on a daily basis appear to be finding some sort of international jurisdiction for their prosecution. So 
 
 that's a breaking story. We'll bring you more on later, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Nick Paton Walsh is on the ground. He has been on the frontlines. Nick it's good to have you. Let's get you up to speed on some of the other 
 
 stories that are on our radar right now and the Philippines and China blaming each other for a pair of skirmishes in the South China Sea.
 
Manila says the Chinese Coast Guard ship caused the minor collision causing some damage and used water cannon against another vessel. China it says the 
 
 Philippine ships illegally entered disputed waters. Iran is reporting record low turnout and its elections held last Friday.
 
Official numbers show 41 percent of Iran's 61 million eligible voters cast ballots that is despite Iran, extending voting three times and a PR 
 
 campaign to boost participation. The elections took place as Iranians deal with a struggling economy and a widespread crackdown on dissent.
 
Jury selection begins today in the trial of James Crumbley he is the father who bought the gun that his son lately used in a deadly school shooting. 
 
 James Crumbley is charged with involuntary manslaughter. His wife Jennifer was convicted of the same charges last month. Their son Ethan used that gun 
 
 to kill four classmates at Oxford High School in November 2021.
 
Well relief from jubilation in France as it becomes the first country in the world to explicitly make abortion a constitutional right. This was the 
 
 moment the decision was made in parliament on Monday night.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, the vote easily cleared the three-fifths majority needed to amend the French constitution. The issue was raised in France as a direct 
 
 response to the U.S. Supreme Court decision overturning Roe v. Wade. One lawmaker said the vote was a win for women around the world. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATHILDE PANOT, LAWMAKER, LA FRANCE INSOUMISE PARTY: We are celebrating a historic victory. Our vote is a promise made to the future never will our 
 
 children, our grandchildren, our great grandchildren have to relive the torment that has preceded them. Our vote is also a promise to all women 
 
 around the world who are fighting for the right to have control over their bodies. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Melissa Bell has more reaction to the vote from Paris for you. 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Celebrations here at the Trocadero in the heart of Paris just after the joint session of 
 
 parliament took place in Versailles. And that was shown on that giant screen there voted overwhelmingly in favor of a woman's freedom to get 
 
 access to abortion. And what the French government had said as he tried to push this bill true was that in light of the reversal of Roe v. Wade in the 
 
 United States in June of 2022, but also the reversal of women's access to abortion elsewhere. 
 
It was important that this become a constitutional right. What the French government had argued was that it was important that future government is 
 
 not be able to wall these rights back in that this debate should at least in this country, be settled once and for all. So a celebration here at 
 
 Trocadero as France becomes the first country to place into its constitution is that crucial freedom. Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris.
 
ANDERSON: Well, China sets an ambitious target for economic growth. As the National People's Congress gets underway in Beijing, we will talk about the 
 
 challenges China faces in achieving that target. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, we are out of the gate and live on Wall Street, the New York Stock Exchange open for a new day of trading. Welcome back. I'm Becky 
 
 Anderson in Abu Dhabi and you are watching "Connect the World" on CNN. The markets well they are not doing much, it has to be set. We are looking for 
 
 a relatively flat open Bitcoin no hit an all-time high on Monday. 
 
It almost reached $68,800 exceeding 2021's record before dipping back a little bit today. You can see it there 67,000 and change the price hike 
 
 follows U.S. regulators approve exchange traded funds pegged to Bitcoin allowing retail investors to jump on the bandwagon. 
 
So if you're seeing a little bit of a sell off well, perhaps not a surprise today China targeting economic growth of 5 percent that was announced to 
 
 nearly 3000 delegates at the country's important annual political meeting in Beijing. 
 
Now leaders are vowing to and I quote here, transform the growth model, while economic development is facing challenges. China's 5 percent target 
 
 is similar to last year's however, economists believe that level will be tougher to hit. CNN's Marc Stewart is in Beijing with the very latest on 
 
 what is this week long political event. 
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This gathering here on the edge of Tiananmen Square is a symbolic way for the ruling Chinese party to show its 
 
 strength and superiority to Chinese people as well as the rest of the world. So it's no surprise, we heard announcements about an economic target 
 
 as well as military spending. 
 
Speaking inside the Great Hall of the People, Premier Li Qiang telling some 3000 delegates from across the country, China hopes to see a growth rate 
 
 this year of around 5 percent. This is despite some strong economic barriers, including a crisis with the property sector and falling prices on 
 
 everyday items used by families. The stock market has also seen hefty declines. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LI QIANG, CHINESE PREMIER: Achieving this year's targets will not be easy. So we need to maintain policy focus, work harder and mobilize the concerted 
 
 efforts of all sides. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: And then there's the military spending, another increase of 7.2 percent same as last year. An investment at a time when U.S. China 
 
 relations are still fraught, while geopolitical tensions remain high across the Taiwan Strait and in the South China Sea. While the premier was doing 
 
 the talking, make no mistake, this is Xi Jinping's China. 
 
The news conference with the premier after the Congress a tradition for the past three decades now canceled. It is the latest reminder this nation of 
 
 1.4 billion people, Xi is the one calling the shots. And as many analysts have pointed out, they'll have a hard time blaming others when things go 
 
 wrong. Marc Stewart, CNN, Beijing. 
 
ANDERSON: Well staying with China, and there is growing concern about how Beijing and Russia could cooperate or incorporate AI into their military 
 
 capabilities. Now Moscow says officials from the two countries recently met to compare notes on the technology. Will Ripley has more on what that could 
 
 mean given the state of Global Affairs. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Two nuclear superpowers forging what some call a dangerous alliance that could 
 
 reshape Modern Warfare. China and Russia longtime U.S. rivals meeting in Beijing is strategizing a new battleground, the military use of artificial 
 
 intelligence. 
 
Detailed discussions the Russian Foreign Ministry says potentially delving into AI powered weapons systems, a top military priority of Russia, China, 
 
 and the U.S. Autonomous submarines and warships, fighter jets and ground combat vehicles, even testing swarms of AI powered drones as shown in these 
 
 Chinese state media video, weapons that could deliver increased firepower. 
 
Experts say AI could even influence military decision making, analyzing vast amounts of satellite radar and online data, giving commanders better 
 
 and faster understanding of the battlefield. President Joe Biden and Chinese leader Xi Jinping are agreeing to hold talks on AI in the spring at 
 
 their San Francisco summit last year. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: We're going to get our experts together to discuss risk and safety issues associated with 
 
 artificial intelligence. 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): The world's major military powers all investing heavily in AI. The U.S. State Department warns there are risks and military 
 
 AI use has to be done responsibly, a warning in the West and the Far East.
 
SENIOR COL. WU QIAN, CHINESE DEFENSE MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: China is opposed to using AI advantages to undermine the sovereignty of other 
 
 countries.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Chinese state media picking up reports on Open AI's policy change, potentially allowing cooperation with the U.S. military. The 
 
 report says beware of the U.S. military's collusion with tech giants. Moscow and Beijing conspicuously absent from a U.S. led coalition promoting 
 
 responsible military use of AI and autonomy, raising questions about their intentions at a critical time.
 
Military experts warn the risk of a major global conflict no longer a distant threat, but a looming crisis, ongoing wars in the Middle East and 
 
 Ukraine, threatening to spill over highly sensitive technology moving at lightning speed. 
 
QIAN: China pays close attention to security risks posed by military applications of AI technologies. 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): China's military capabilities expanding at an unprecedented pace, simmering tensions over Taiwan and the South China Sea, 
 
 setting the stage for a catastrophic showdown as the world teeters on the brink of a new era of warfare machines making life and death decisions on 
 
 the battlefield. Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, we reported at the "Top of this Hour" that the U.S. Secretary of State and the Qatari Prime Minister were meeting. They spoke 
 
 just a short while ago in a meeting in Washington take a listen to what Blinken had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: And here, we have an opportunity for an immediate ceasefire that can bring hostages home, that could 
 
 dramatically increase the amount of humanitarian assistance getting into Palestinians who so desperately needed, and can also set the conditions for 
 
 an enduring resolution. It's also urgent irrespective of ceasefire, to dramatically increase the humanitarian assistance that's getting to people 
 
 inside of Gaza. 
 
The situation for children, for women, for men were caught in this crossfire Hamas is making inside of Gaza is unacceptable and unsustainable. 
 
 Israel has to maximize every possible means, every possible method of getting assistance to people who needed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: The U.S. Secretary of State speaking just moments ago. We will be back after this quick break, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Amazon Founder Jeff Bezos is now the world's richest person, again surpassing Elon Musk. Bezos's net worth is $200 billion according to 
 
 the Bloomberg Billionaires Index that is 2 billion more than Musk. Bezos has gained 23 billion over the past year, while Musk lost about 31 billion. 
 
 Bernard Arnault, the CEO of LVMH, is the third richest person in the world with a net worth of $197 billion dollars. 
 
Well, a joint Egyptian American archeological dig found a buried depiction of one of ancient Egypt's most powerful Pharaohs. The mission discovered 
 
 the upper part of a huge statue of King Ramses II; the limestone block is about 3.8 meters high also called "Ramses the Great". 
 
The statue depicts him seated wearing a double crown and a headdress topped with a real Cobra. When combined with the statues lower part which was on 
 
 earth decades ago, it would extend to about seven meters. 
 
Well, an Australian cricket stars disruptive batting came with an unexpected cost on Monday. Have a look at this. That is something you do 
 
 not see every day. What do you make of that? Amanda Davies joins me now. I'm sure the sponsors car if that's what it was, which was, which was 
 
 sitting so neatly on view there, wasn't supposed to have its windscreen taken out, what a shot.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: I think howzat is the phrase isn't it to be used in this moment, Becky. It was really funny. At least Perry said 
 
 she's not sure she's got the insurance to pay for it. But actually it might be one of these opportunities where she gets free cars for life because the 
 
 sponsors probably couldn't get any better and advertising. 
 
She's not somebody who's afraid to be making headlines. At least Perry is a player who actually represented Australia at football as well as cricket. 
 
 But yeah, it was a brilliant moment that was in the penultimate over. 
 
She actually scored four sixes in that game for Royal Challengers Bangalore. But if this isn't too bad, a little segue. We are going from 
 
 broken windows to damage limitation with Bayern Munich, that's what we're talking about in just a couple of minutes in "World Sport". 
 
ANDERSON: I'm going to chore that up to a producers cliched line, but it's all good. Amanda is up with "World Sport" after this. We are back top of 
 
 the hour for you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END