Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Pro-Palestinian Protesters Briefly Interrupt University Of Michigan Commencement Ceremony; College Brace For Pro-Palestinian Protests Ahead Of Graduations; Bodies Found In Mexico After American, Two Australians Go Missing; Longtime Trump Aide Hope Hicks Wraps Blockbuster Testimony; Blinken: Hamas Is The Only Thing Standing In The Way Of A Deal; The Reality Of Life In Rafah; Red Lobster Considers Filing For Bankruptcy; Caitlin Clark Makes WNBA Debut. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired May 04, 2024 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:00:39]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. And we're following new developments in the college campus unrest we have seen across the country.
 
Today, pro-Palestinian protesters interrupted the commencement ceremony at the University of Michigan. The event was briefly delayed as police guided those demonstrating graduates away from the ceremony.
 
It is the latest in weeks of unrest gripping America's colleges. Protesters have been calling for an end to the war in Gaza and for schools to divest from Israeli linked entities.
 
So far, police have arrested more than 2,100 people on about 40 university campuses.
 
CNN's Whitney Wild is on the University of Michigan campus where there was a disruption at the ceremony there.
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT: Well, it was interesting. When we were here earlier at -- before the ceremony began, we walked around the entirety of Michigan Stadium, and we did not see any indication there would be protests. We did not see protesters. We didn't see any flags. We didn't see any signs. And it was only once the ceremony got underway about 15 minutes in, as the Secretary of the Navy Carlos Del Toro spoke, that protesters made their presence very clear.
 
I'll give you just a sense of how close those protesters got to the stage. So, to my left, here is the stage where a long list of speakers was speaking. And again, this happened during the Secretary of the Navy speech.
 
And then, if you come to look over my shoulder to the right here, it was right in the center of this field -- that Michigan Field where a group of protesters, between a dozen and two dozen protesters made a very vocal protest.
 
They were chanting, they had flags. What was apparent though, was Michigan State Police were not going to allow those protesters to get any closer to the stage. More than a dozen police officers on top of those protesters immediately.
 
The clash was not at all violent. It was very peaceful. And after -- I'd say about five minutes, police guided those protesters outside. And we heard very little after that. There were no disruptions. But the -- but the Secretary of the Navy did take a moment during his speech. And it's not clear if this was adlibbed, or this was pre planned, but did take a moment to acknowledge the ROTC members who are graduating today, and made a point of saying that their service is to protect speech.
 
So, certainly acknowledging the protests that was going on around him even though his speech was disrupted. It was a very brief disruption. The rest of the ceremony went off smoothly. We have reached out to the Michigan State Police to find out if any of those students were detained.
 
Whitney Wild, CNN, and over Michigan.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thanks so much, Whitney.
 
Let's go to Tallahassee now, where we find CNN's Rafael Romo. He is live from the campus of Florida State University. So, Rafael, what precautions are school officials there, taking as commencement ceremonies get underway?
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Fred. Well, let me tell you, first of all, for the most part here in Tallahassee, what we've seen, it's a lot of excitement about the commencement ceremonies and graduating students and their families gathering here on campus for the occasion.
 
Between Friday and Saturday, a Florida State University here in Tallahassee was expected to hold six commencement ceremonies. And according to the university, FSU is awarding degrees to more than 7,800 graduates.
 
Yesterday, we were also at the University of Florida in Gainesville. About two hours away from here, where another 10,500 students were graduating. It was a tense week there at UF, although, probably not as much, Fred as what we have seen in places like Columbia University, and UCLA.
 
And nine pro-Palestine protesters were arrested Monday evening on the University of Florida in Gainesville, at the campus there.
 
We spoke with a leader of the same group of pro-Palestine protesters Friday, a group that has published the list of very specific demands for the college administration.
 
This is what one of the students have to say. Let's take a listen. And what he told us, Fred, is that what they want the college to do is to divest some of the funds that they have, according to them, from some of the company's weapons manufacturers, that in their own words, are using that to afford the war in Gaza for the war in Israel.
 <br>[13:05:05]
 
And also, they are demanding that the University of Florida publicly denounced what they called violence and discrimination against pro- Palestinian students, as well as a call for a ceasefire in Gaza. We have heard very similar demands made by pro-Palestine protesters at campuses across the nation.
 
On the other hand, we also spoke with graduating Jews -- Jewish students, I should say, who told us some of the protesters seem unable to understand how hurtful and offensive some of the things protesters are chanting can be.
 
These students say that those words and the protests over the last weeks have created hostile environments in colleges and universities across the country. So, it's been very difficult for them for them as well.
 
Meanwhile, back here in Tallahassee, commencement ceremonies will go on as schedule here at Florida State University, the College of Law, Fred will award degrees on Sunday, 321 of them. And the College of Medicine, an additional 110 degrees on May 18th. That's exactly two weeks from today.
 
Fred, back to you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Rafael Romo, thank you so much, there in Tallahassee.
 
The Biden administration is also ramping up its response to the campus protests. On Friday, Education Secretary Miguel Cardona sent a letter to college and university presidents, condemning incidents of anti- Semitism on campus.
 
CNN's Kevin Liptak joining us now with more on that side of the story. Kevin, so, this letter comes after we also heard from President Biden, who addressed some of the unrest really, for the first time this week.
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, and you have seen administration officials really watching with a level of concern as these protests unfold on campuses.
 
And that letter from the education secretary really spelling out the degree of concern inside his department, but also, telling these colleges that there are resources from the Biden administration that they can provide, if requested, when it comes to this issue of anti- Semitism and battling some of the hate speech that we have been seeing on campuses.
 
And so, you really are seeing the Biden administration and President Biden himself really trying to thread a needle here. And you heard the president in that short speech that he delivered on Thursday, really talked about one: the necessity to allow free speech and to allow protests on campus; but two, to make sure that the free speech doesn't cross over into hate speech.
 
And you heard him say very directly that while dissent is essential to democracy, it cannot spill over into discord. And at the end of the day, the president really is caught in some pretty strong political crosscurrents here. On the one side, he doesn't want to alienate some of these young people who are protesting, he will rely on them if he has to win reelection in November.
 
But on the other hand, he doesn't necessarily want to be seen as provide -- a presiding over chaos in the streets. That's never a good look for an incumbent president. So, he did kind of strike the balance in that speech.
 
Now, today, and over the next several days, what the president is doing is preparing for quite a significant speech on anti-Semitism. It's scheduled for Tuesday on Capitol Hill. It's part of Holocaust Remembrance Day, and he will speak about this issue that he has spoken about pretty strongly before he has set up a task force to combat anti-Semitism.
 
What this speech will really be a sort of an expansion of the themes that the president was talking about on Thursday. But when you talk about college commencements, college graduations, the president is also gearing up to look -- to deliver his own commencement address, two weeks from tomorrow at Morehouse College.
 
His presence there on campus has generated some controversy at the campus down there in Atlanta. Some students, some faculty wanting to discuss his presence there. At the end of the day, it was very interesting what the president said.
 
As he was leaving the room on Thursday, he was asked whether these protests would cause him to reconsider his stance towards the Middle East. He said no. And I think that really does boil down some of the predicament that the president is in.
 
While he is very eager to say that these students have the right to protest, he also says he isn't changing the stance, which some of them are protesting. So, the president sort of caught in a bind here but very eager to demonstrate that he is on top of it, and that he isn't allowing free speech to cross over into hate speech. Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Kevin Liptak in Washington. Thanks so much.
 
All right. So, classes at UCLA are set to resume in full on Monday, after police dismantled a protest encampment there on Thursday.
 
And that followed violent clashes between pro-Palestinian and pro- Israeli demonstrators.
 <br>[13:10:02]
 
Police arrested more than 200 people as the encampment was cleared. The school says campus operations remain limited this weekend.
 
Joining us right now is Dylan Winward. He is a student and news editor at UCLA's Daily Bruin. Dylan, great to see you.
 
DYLAN WINWARD, STUDENT AND NEWS EDITOR, UCLA DAILY BRUIN: Thank you for having me on the show.
 
WHITFIELD: So, what is it like on campus now, a few days after that encampment was dismantled, 200 students -- or 200 people arrested, many of whom were students, some who were not students on campus, but collectively, a lot of people arrested. So, what's it feel like on campus today?
 
WINWARD: Yes, it's been a strange couple of days with classes being online on Thursday and Friday. We know as well that lots of student organizations are beginning to put out statements. We have seen over 50 statements put out so far by student clubs and organizations, many of them have nothing to do really with the conflict.
 
We're looking at theatre clubs, science clubs and clubs like that putting out statements condemning the university, and the policing response over the last couple of days. We have seen on the faculty side that a number of academic departments have already put out statements critical of the university as well.
 
So, we know that there is a lot of anger within both the student and faculty community what's happened in recent days.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, would you say that the campus -- there is a feeling that the campus felt very divided, leading up to the encampment and the demonstrations? Or is it feeling more divided as a result of now, the dismantling or, you know, post demonstration days?
 
WINWARD: Yes. Well, there is definitely been a feeling since October of a divided campus, we know that we've had rallies, both supporting Israel and supporting Palestine that we've been covering. Since October. We know as well, in recent days that a lot of that division seems to have disappeared slightly. Lots of students who previously weren't making statements in support for the encampment have now done so since both the attacks by counter protesters and the policing response as well.
 
So that's definitely something that we've seen over the last couple of days as well.
 
WHITFIELD: So, what about for you? I mean, you're a student, you are also a budding journalist. You are working for the campus' newspaper. You are the news editor at UCLA's Daily Bruin. So, you are reporting on it.
 
Give me an idea of what it's been like for you, because you are interacting with your fellow, you know, colleagues and students, some of which have very strong opinions either way, you know, at the same time, as a budding journalist, you are also you know, trying to traverse what it is to, you know, be impartial. So, how are you managing it?
 
WINWARD: Yes. It's been a difficult couple of days. We're trying to speak to really as many people as we can to see what's happening on the ground.
 
I know, it's been difficult reporting as well, because we've had reporters who have been in harm's way, and who've been put into danger through their reporting over the last couple of days. So, we've been working really hard to try and keep our reporters safe, and in a position where they on the ground can carry on giving updates to the campus community about what's been going on in and around the encampments.
 
WHITFIELD: So, Dylan, while we are seeing, you know, schools today, and even last night, they are having and celebrating their commencements. UCLA's ceremony is still about six weeks away.
 
Have there been any discussions about what people are anticipating for those ceremonies, how they may be -- how it might be different, you know, this year, I mean, a very sizable campus that you have there and things will be, you know, probably parsed out based on school.
 
But what are people expressing they have anxieties about or their worries, or, perhaps, no worries, or anxieties.
 
WINWARD: Yes. I mean, commencement still a very long way off at UCLA. So, it's not really something that's entered the discourse here yet on campus.
 
We know that there is already planned disruptions to the rest of the quarter. I have a class that's been moved to online instruction for the remainder of the quarter.
 
So, for the next five weeks of instruction, it's going to be taught online and synchronously instead of in person. We're hearing an increasing number of classes that are having some form of disruption for next week as well.
 
But we're still tracking how widespread that is on campus.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Dylan Winward, a UCLA, a student, and news editor. Thank you so much for your time, your perspective, and keep up the good work.
 
WINWARD: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still to come. We are learning police in Mexico have recovered three bodies and found a burned-out pickup truck that an American and two Australians were driving before they all went missing days ago.
 <br>[13:14:46]
 
Plus, new details on a potential ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. This just in. Sadiq Khan has just won a third term as London's mayor. He won with nearly 44 percent of the vote. His victory caps around of local elections across England that confirm the political supremacy of Khan's Labour Party over Britain's governing conservative candidates, ahead of a looming general election.
 <br>[13:20:01]
 
All right, turning now to Mexico in the search for missing American and two Australian brothers. Authorities there now confirmed three bodies were found on a cliff, Friday, near where the trio of surfers went missing. But a forensic exam is now underway to identify the remains.
 
We are also learning police discovered a burned-out truck that family says the brothers were driving. The brothers were on a surfing trip with their friend near Ensenada, when a family member says they lost contact in late April.
 
journalist Stefano Pozzebon is covering these developments for us.
 
Stefano, what more are investigators saying?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN JOURNALIST: Well, the focus of the investigators, Fredricka, is dedicated to those three bodies that were found yesterday, Friday morning in the area of Santo Tomas. So, that is about -- it's a cliff area by the ocean at about 50 miles south of downtown Ensenada. Still part of the Ensenada municipality, but a little bit out of downtown, a little about of the urban area.
 
And these are cliffs, so, that go directly onto the ocean. So, there is maybe some speculation by the -- by the investigators that is an area where the surfers were trying to get to access the sea. Remember that they have been missing since at least the 29th of April. So, almost a week now that they have been waiting.
 
Unfortunately, because we are talking on it on a Saturday, Fredricka, we still have to wait a few more hours, and hopefully, not a few more days before those identification have been completed those forensic examination, which are essentially are DNA checks.
 
We know that the families of both the American Tourister and the Australian surfers have arrived, are traveling towards Mexico, to be around this investigation, to provide how whatever help they can with that, especially the forensic examination.
 
But at the same time, Fredricka, I think this is a moment also to step back and understand the context where this appearance has occurred that like, we're talking about three theories there.
 
But there are a hundred -- more than 116,000 people that are missing. in Mexico right now.
 
These are Forster disappearance in the majority of these cases, some families haven't seen their loved one for years, and still do not want to give up the hope, of one day, being able to find them.
 
Just this week, an NGO in the city of in southern Mexico -- in Mexico City. So, the capital. And discover that a mass grave that was meant, they believe, that is where some of these bodies could have been could have been taken.
 
So, I don't want to mix the two stories. But it's important to point out that there is a security crisis going on all around Mexico, partly since 2006, with an increase of the war on drug in the country.
 
And that while we don't see these levels of violence directed at tourist, sometimes, well, you still are in a country that is going through a very traumatic time, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, boy. Still have lots of unanswered questions in this case, but still, one can't help but feel very heartbroken for all involved.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
POZZEBON: Exactly.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Stefano Pozzebon, thank you so much.
 
All right. Up next, former President Trump's former campaign press secretary Hope Hicks breaks down on the stand as she testifies in his hush money trial.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:27:47]
 
The second week of testimony in Donald Trump's hush money trial wrapped up with a day of dramatic testimony.
 
Hope Hicks, who was one of Trump's most trusted aides took the witness stand. The former White House Communications Director looked noticeably uncomfortable as she avoided eye contact with her former boss.
 
And after a key moment in her testimony, she began crying. CNN's Brian Todd has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Hope Hicks was visibly nervous during her testimony. CNN reporters inside the courtroom said, teared up at one point, and rarely looked at her former boss.
 
Observers say taking the stand for the prosecution had to have been difficult for the 35-year- old, who's said to be fiercely loyal to Donald Trump.
 
ALICE STEWART, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Look, she's not a political operative by nature. This is more of a personal situation for her. So, it's got to be really hard for her to go out there and make her case. TODD (voice over): Hope Charlotte Hicks, a former teenage model, first worked in the world of media and communications after graduating from Southern Methodist University.
 
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: She did not come up in politics. She came up in P.R. in New York working with Ivanka Trump, and then was brought onto the campaign. And, in many ways, she was seen as like an extension of the Trump family.
 
TODD (voice over): In testimony, Hicks said of working with Ivanka Trump, "I was enjoying it so much that I was offered a position at the Trump Organization, and jumped at the opportunity to join the company full time. Hicks says that when Donald Trump told her she'd be the 2016 campaign press secretary, she thought it was a joke because she had no experience.
 
TRUMP: I said, what do you know about politics? She said, absolutely nothing. I say, congratulations, you're into the world of politics, right?
 
TODD (voice over): At that event, Trump teased Hicks about her shyness.
 
TRUMP: Hope, say a couple of words.
 
HOPE HICKS, FORMER WHITE HOUSE DIRECTOR OF STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: Hi. Merry Christmas, everyone, and thank you Donald Trump.
 
TODD (voice over): Hicks rose to become White House communications director and was a consummate insider, known as a staunch defender and gatekeeper for the president.
 
GRIFFIN: Hope was someone that, in the West Wing, if you needed to get through to Trump and you were struggling to, you would go to.
 
TODD (voice over): But it came at a cost. During the Russia investigation, Hicks told a House committee she occasionally had to tell white lies on Trump's behalf, according to a source with direct knowledge of her 2018 testimony.
 <br>[13:30:06]
 
After the 2020 election, according to multiple books about that period, Hicks was criticized by Trump loyalists for not believing the election had been stolen.
 
HICKS: I lose. 
 
TODD: She said this to the House committee investigating January 6th, about a conversation she had with Trump about his baseless claims of election fraud. 
 
HICKS: I was becoming increasingly concerned that we were damaging -- we were damaging his legacy. 
 
TODD: Hick's relationship with Trump is said to have cooled after reports of texts Hicks sent to another White House aide about Trump's actions on January 6th. 
 
Quote, "All of us that didn't have jobs lined up will be perpetually unemployed. I'm so mad and upset. We all look like domestic terrorists now." 
 
TODD (on camera): Prosecutors have not accused Hope Hicks of taking part in Donald Trump's alleged scheme to influence the election and cover up the hush money payments. 
 
"Politico" has reported that since leaving policy politics, Hicks has been running a small communications consulting firm with a variety of clients, including the fashion retailing company, Shein.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: The CIA director is in Cairo right now as negotiators meet in hopes of finalizing a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas. What that deal could look like. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:36:04]
 
WHITFIELD: At least nine people, including two children, were killed when Israeli airstrikes hit residential buildings in Gaza earlier today. That's according to Gaza civil defense officials. 
 
They say one strike hit a home in northern Gaza. Another was on a building in an area east of Rafah, a city where more than one million Palestinians have been sheltering. 
 
Israel Defense Forces said the strikes were aimed at dismantling Hamas capabilities in the area. 
 
The strikes come as Hamas negotiators arrived in Egypt for new talks on a possible ceasefire in Gaza. U.S. and Israeli officials are saying progress is being made, but any deal finalizing a ceasefire framework could take several more days to put together. 
 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken says, at this point, it's up to Hamas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE: We wait to see whether, in effect, they can take yes for an answer on the ceasefire and release the hostages. And the reality in this moment is the only thing standing between the people of Gaza and a ceasefire is Hamas.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Aaron David Miller is a former State Department Middle East negotiator and a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment. 
 
Great to see you.
 
So this is a conversation that you and I have had a few times since the beginning of the war. What might make this time, in terms of negotiations, different?
 
AARON DAVID MILLER, FORMER STATE DEPARTMENT MIDDLE EAST NEGOTIATOR: Thanks for having me, Fred. 
 
It turns, as it's turned on our previous conversations right now on the decision of Yahya Sinwar, the architect of the October 7th terrorists, who is ensconced in a tunnel, maybe below Khan Younis, Rafah, maybe in a tunnel structure in Sinai. 
 
The question is whether Sinwar -- or there's any more urgency in Sinwar's calculations right now. There could be.
 
The Israelis are threatening a significant ground campaign in Rafah, destroy the last four brigades of Hamas' organized military structure.
 
Plus, the Americans are putting pressure on the Qataris if -- or reported pressure on the Qataris, that if Sinwar doesn't agree to this deal, Hamas' external leadership is going to be expelled from Doha in Qatar. 
 
So it's possible. I don't think Sinwar is interested in a comprehensive deal. I think we're talking about a first phase here. 
 
Which would be roughly, if the press reports are true, 33 Israeli hostages. That wouldn't be the women, the elderly, and the infirm, in exchange for an undetermined number of Palestinians, probably nearing 600, 700, 800. And a temporary ceasefire of about 40 days. 
 
The Egyptians put a far more comprehensive proposal on the table for a second and third stage. 
 
But I think there are significant differences between the Israelis right now and Hamas in order to finally get a comprehensive ceasefire, which, right now, I think is -- is not on the table. 
 
WHITFIELD: So when Secretary Blinken says it's now up to Hamas, what do you read in that? Because Hamas can make its demands and, of course, Israel then has to agree to it. I mean, it is a two-way street.
 
So is the pressure on Hamas to really come up with a better deal, a deal that both sides will agree on? 
 
MILLER: I mean, there is pressure. The question is whether there's enough urgency. And, frankly, you know, it's urgency, pain accompanied by the prospects of gain that usually determine why any negotiation succeeds.
 
My sense though is that neither the Israeli nor Hamas are really the ones that are in a hurry. For understandable reasons.
 
I think it's the Biden administration that's pressing. CIA Director Bill Burns is in Cairo. I think that's a very good sign. He's established a very close working relationship with David Barnea, the head of -- the head of the Israeli Mossad. 
 <br>[13:40:03] 
 
But again, it's not done until it's done. And this is a very strange kind of negotiation. But in my experience, these negotiations usually have two speeds, slow and slower.
 
At the same time, I think we're probably closer now than we've ever been before. But as I mentioned, is not done until it's done.
 
WHITFIELD: Israel is asking for the release of up to 33 hostages as part of a ceasefire deal. 
 
And then just yesterday, a body was found of a man in Israel that was believed to have been in a hostage in Gaza. And it's now believed at least 34 October 7th hostages are dead out of the 128 in Gaza.
 
So not really knowing the status or the number of hostages must have an impact on -- on these negotiations. How much more complicated is it becoming? 
 
MILLER: I think it's huge. I think you're absolutely right. Broke the code on this. I mean, you're 100 percent right. The Israelis calculate 131 hostages living and dead are in -- Hamas said 30 have already died, either killed on October 7th and their bodies taken to Gaza to trade or they died in captivity. 
 
And the longer they are in these extraordinarily fraught conditions, the greater the danger that more -- more will perish. The Egyptian proposal, assuming that it even got to the second stage, would obligate Hamas to provide a detailed list of every living hostage. 
 
And then I think is the problem Hamas may not control them all. Which raises serious questions about -- about the fate of those that are not in Hamas' hands. 
 
So again, there's -- there are some fundamental decisions that need to be made right now. I think the pressure is on -- on Hamas.
 
The secretary state characterized the Israeli offer, quote, "as extremely generous," unquote. Which raises the complication, of course, if Hamas' responses is yes.
 
But the question is whether the administration is prepared to place additional pressure on the Israelis if Hamas has -- has further demands. I think will no one way or -- one way or another within the next 24 to 48 hours.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Aaron David Miller, thanks so much. Good to see you. 
 
MILLER: Good to see you, Fred. Thanks. 
 
WHITFIELD: Israeli airstrikes have been targeting the southern city of Rafah for weeks ahead of an anticipated ground offensive. Daily life for parents there is a constant effort to protect their children from the cruel violence of this conflict.
 
CNN's international correspondent, Paula Hancocks, reports on the reality of life in Rafah.
 
A warning. It contains graphic images that may be disturbing for some viewers.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(CRYING)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A grandmother kisses her young grandchildren. Their small bodies share just one body bag.
 
Four-year-old Kareem and his 2-year-old sister, Mona, were killed on Tuesday by an Israeli airstrike.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
HANCOCKS: Their aunt says, "They are innocent. The babies went to bed last night and never woke up. Our hearts are broken forever." 
 
The doctors tried to save Mona but could not. 
 
The children's parents were seriously injured in the same strike.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
HANCOCKS: But Rafah is not home for these children. Their grandmother says the family were displaced multiple times by the Israeli military, ending up in a tent on the southern border, alongside hundreds of thousands of others who have nowhere else to go.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
HANCOCKS: Speaking of the Israeli military, she says, "This is all they want. This is their goal." 
 
The IDF referred to a previous statement when asked about this strike, saying, "They are operating to dismantle Hamas." Adding, quote, "Remaining in an active combat zone has inherent risks." 
 
But despite months of threatening a major ground offensive in Rafah, the military has not told civilians to evacuate. For many here, there is no other option.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HANCOCKS: At the start of this weekend in Rafah, 22 people were killed in an Israeli airstrike, including at least one infant and a toddler.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) HANCOCKS: A 1-year-old killed is carried in their uncle's arms. 
 
He says, "This is who they are targeting. This is the 'safe Rafah' they talk about."
 
It is the area the Israeli military has pushed civilians towards for months, an area well over one million Palestinians are barely surviving. And food, water, shelter are scarce. Disease is rising.
 
But amid such misery, some adults are trying to remind children of their previous life, just seven months ago, where they could play and learn safely.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HANCOCKS: This volunteer teacher says the children's mental state is distressed. 
 
"They have no stability. They're distracted and they lose focus. So we work twice as hard to try and grab their attention and help them learn."
 <br>[13:45:04]
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HANCOCKS: Mohammed says he's happy he can play and study here. He says, "We lost our schools, we lost everything." 
 
Attending school may not see much --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HANCOCKS: -- but even this pretense of normality for these children will be lost if they're forced to move yet again.
 
Paula Hancocks CNN, Abu Dhabi.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: More than a dozen Russian drone strikes overnight caused massive fires throughout the city of Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine. At least four people were injured, including a child. 
 
Ukrainian forces say the city was struck with four guided missiles and 13 drones. Multiple residential buildings were destroyed. First responders are assessing the damage.
 
The break from the rain may only be brief for residents in many parts of Texas. Several communities experiencing heavy flooding. And more is on the way.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:50:41] WHITFIELD: Bottomless seafood is hurting Red Lobster's bottom line. The popular seafood chain restaurant lost millions of dollars on all- you-can-eat deals after misjudging just how hungry customers were. 
 
Red Lobster is now reportedly considering filing for bankruptcy. Say it ain't so. 
 
Joining me right now is CNN consumer reporter, Nathaniel Meyersohn.
 
Nathaniel, what went wrong before -- I mean, besides so many hungry customers?
 
NATHANIEL MEYERSOHN, CNN CONSUMER REPORTER: Yes, I hate to break this news to you, Fred, because I'm told you're maybe going to Red Lobster for dinner this evening with your --
 
WHITFIELD: I know.
 
MEYERSOHN: -- with your family? I just had an intuition here.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
MEYERSOHN: So, Fred, so first, let's --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
MEYERSOHN: Lt's let's talk about this -- this endless shrimp deal last year that went really, really poorly for Red Lobster. Great deal for customers. But it was terrible for Red Lobster because they lost all this money with -- with people loading up on cheap shrimp. 
 
But it's not just the deal last year for endless shrimp. This is part of a long decline for Red Lobster. 
 
You look back at its sales in 2013, they were about $2.6 billion in sales. That's dropped last year to $1.9 billion in sales. So a long decline here.
 
Part of it also has to do with mismanagement. I spoke to former executives at Red Lobster. The company's recently been owned by a Thai seafood supplier. 
 
And the Thai company just didn't really know what to do with Red Lobster, according to these former executives. So the brand has really struggled. 
 
And then also competition. You think about all of them, the fast, casual restaurants, like Chipotle and Panera. A lot of people switching to there instead of Red Lobster. 
 
WHITFIELD: So then where does Red Lobster go from here? 
 
MEYERSOHN: So, Fred, they're reportedly considering a bankruptcy filing. Red Lobster didn't respond to our requests for comment.
 
But look, a bankruptcy would not necessarily be the end of the line for Red Lobster. They still have about 650 restaurants. 
 
So in a bankruptcy, they may have to close some of those restaurants. But that doesn't mean that necessarily all of them are going to go away. 
 
But it certainly is kind of a sad tale of this brand --
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
MEYERSOHN: -- that was, brought kind of seafood to the masses and now it's fallen on hard times. 
 
WHITFIELD: Right. OK. Well, let's hope there are better days ahead because you don't let hungry folks out there who loved their seafood who would hate to see Red Lobster go away. 
 
All right. Nathaniel Meyersohn, thank you so much.
 
All right. Still ahead. Caitlin Clark's WNBA career is now off and running. We'll show you the highlights from Indiana Fever, her debut, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:58:10]
 
WHITFIELD: Caitlin -- Caitlin Clark, rather, is officially a pro. She made her WNBA debut for the Indiana Fever last night in Dallas, and she did not disappoint.
 
CNN's Andy Scholes has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Well, Fredricka, yes, a lot of people excited to watch Caitlin Clark in the WNBA. And in game one, she already had all the step-back three moves going. 
 
Her WNBA debut was in Dallas Friday night. And this was the first ever sold-out crowds to the Dallas Wings. And Clark did not disappoint all the fans in attendance. 
 
Just one minute in, she hit her first three. And then, moments later, it's a crossover step-back three, Clark made five three pointers in this game for 21 points. The Fever would lose their pre-season opener, 79 to 76. 
 
But Clark was happy with the start.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAITLIN CLARK, INDIANA FEVER GUARD: Just a great atmosphere for women's basketball. I think it's a good check off to the WNBA season.
 
I think the way we played, you know, there are some things we could have executed a little better. I thought we could have gotten our offense a little bit better. The pace was amazing. That's bombast that people like to watch. But overall, definitely what I expected. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: All right, the NBA's Kyrie Irving just going off in the second half of the match against the Clippers in game six. Gave tied entering the third quarter. But that's because Kyrie takes over sports. 
 
And 28 points in the second half, as Kyrie was doing Kyrie things in the fourth. Look at this, crossover, step back for B. And it's fouled. That has the whole crowd in Dallas going crazy.
 
Massive win, 114 to 101, to win the series in the sixth game as we're now going to paste this down in round two.
 
Meantime, game one between the Timberwolves and Nuggets is tonight. Tip off on that one, 7:00 Eastern in Denver. And you can watch it on TNT.
 <br>[13:59:48]
 
And finally, get your mint juleps and fancy hats ready. It's Derby Day. The 150th running of the Kentucky Derby is tonight. Fierceness is the betting favorite right now after winning the Florida Derby back in March. It's Trained by Todd Fletcher, who has won the Derby twice before.
 
Sierra Leone, the second favorite. But it's in the number-two post, a spot no horse has won the derby from since 1978.