Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Obama Urges Americans To Embrace Harris And Reject "Bumbling And Chaos" Of A Second Trump Term; Republican Mayor John Giles Calls On Moderates To Put Country First, Applauds Kamala Harris At DNC; Day 2 of Democratic National Convention. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired August 21, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[01:00:29]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIL JON, AMERICAN RAPPER: We're not going back. We're not going back. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We proudly cast our 482 votes for the next president, Kamala Harris.
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: And together, we will chart a new way forward.
 
LIL JON: V.P. Harris, give it wild.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Take it from an actual billionaire. Trump is rich in only one thing, stupidity. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Behind closed doors. Trump mocks his supporters. He calls them basement dwellers. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know that laugh? I love that laugh. I love you so much. 
 
MICHELLE OBAMA, FORMER U.S. FIRST LADY: Something wonderfully magical is in the air, isn't it? America, hope is making a comeback. 
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: I'm feeling fired up. America's ready for a new chapter. America is ready for a better story. We are ready for a president, Kamala Harris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAURA COATES, CNN ANCHOR: All right, it is midnight here in the shy as night two of the DNC has come to a close. I'm Laura Coates inside the United Center with CNN continuing coverage of a Democratic National Convention, and we've been hearing it for days now that the Harris campaign has those 2008 yes, we can vibes. There's only one man who can really vouch for that and tell you if it's true. 
 
And tonight, the party, the country, well, they heard from him directly. But this time it was yes she can. The 44th president of the United States, Barack Obama, delivering an electrifying speech before his hometown Chicago crowd. 
 
Look and of course, not to be forgotten, his first lady. These crowed because the love of their life. We'll talk about her speech in just a moment, but look at Biden got a hero's welcome. This may have been the main street parade with the fireworks as well, because he warned that when it came to a Trump administration, we've seen this movie before, and the sequels he warned are always worse. 
 
He told them, America is ready for a better story, one written by you guessed it, Vice President Kamala Harris. His speed and endorsement was a true full circle moment. 
 
You see, then-District Attorney Harris was one of his very first supporters during his 2008 run. In fact, here she is a New Year's Eve in a cold Iowa campaign office before going to knock door to door for who then-Senator Barack Obama. Well, tonight, he returned the favor. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OBAMA: We are ready for a president Kamala Harris, and Kamala Harris is ready for the job. She won't just cater to her own supporters and punish those who refuse to kiss the ring or bend the knee. she'll work on behalf of every American. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: Now you heard Obama there not really pulling any punches when it comes to Donald Trump. The comparisons were quite clear, and the split screens intended to be evident, but it was his wife, the former First Lady Michelle Obama, who delivered what might arguably one of the most powerful and one of the most blistering speeches against Donald Trump. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OBAMA: If we bankrupt a business, if we bankrupt a business or choke in a crisis, we don't get a second, third or fourth chance. If things don't go our way, we don't have the luxury of whining or cheating others to get further ahead. No, we don't get to change the rules. So we always win. If we see a mountain in front of us, we don't expect there to be an escalator waiting to dig us to the top. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: Well, it seems quite clear what she wanted to say. I want to bring in CNN political commentator and former deputy assistant to President Joe Biden, Jamal Simmons is here this. Distinguished Professor of African American and Diaspora Studies at Vanderbilt University, Michael Eric Dyson.
 <br>[01:05:04]
 
CNN political commentator Karen Finney and deputy campaign manager for Governor Ron DeSantis is presidential campaign, David Polyansky. I'm so glad all of you all are here. 
 
Look, it might be empty behind me, but there are still vibrations going through this hall. I mean, this was a moment that people were waiting for. There was nostalgia, there was a palpable energy, but there was also an intention to more than pass this torch, Jamal. It was intended for people to remember, obviously, the hometown kids, so we say, but also to pass that torch to Harris. How effective was tonight in getting that job done?
 
JAMAL SIMMONS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I think that President Obama did exactly what he was supposed to do, which is to set up Vice President Harris as the person who is going to be the one to carry this party forward. 
 
You know, as well as he did, he connected it to policy. He went after Trump. He connected to policy, talked about the Vice President's policies. But Michelle Obama, though, Michelle Obama, I mean --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
I mean Michelle Obama, though, I mean, she just came in, and I don't think we've seen her throw that kind of shade at anybody before, and she just kind of put Trump apart, like brick by brick by brick and she talked about her own feelings. She talked about, you know, still wrestling with loss of her mom. So she let people know, sort of wrestling with where we are with democracy. And she really laid it out. 
 
And I got to tell you, as a former communications director to the Vice President, I think they did a good job in scheduling, because they have the vice president coming on Thursday night. So we got a night off, right? So we had a night to have some blistering commentary, then we got another night coming, and then we'll see the vice president get up and do what she does, which will also be great, but you won't have to be compared to what happens. 
 
COATES: Well, speaking of scheduling and nights off, let's talk about black jobs. And in fact, let's hear what the former first lady had to say about how she felt about a phrase like that undermining the success of some.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OBAMA: For years, Donald Trump did everything in his power to try to make people fear us. See his, limited narrow view of the world made him feel threatened by the existence of two hard work and highly educated, successful people who happen to be black. Who's going to tell them that the job he's currently seeking might just be one of those black jobs?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL ERIC DYSON, DISTINGUISHED PROF. OF AFRICAN AMERICAN AND DIASPORIA STUDIES, VANDERBILT: Yes, she had more shade than your night curtain. When I look at the Obamas, a kind of double headed fountain of black oratorical genius, each in their own way, pace and cadence. Michelle Obama was James Baldwin indicting the system with searing poetry. I think Keffer Burns (ph) texted me and said, the great poet that she gave it wasn't a speech, it was an epic poem, that she laid out and she did.
 
But if she was James Baldwin, then her husband was Thurgood Marshall, he's got to prosecute the case. He's got to lay it out. That's not as exciting as what she did, but you got to carefully deconstruct what happened. Or, if we change musical terms, she was, you know, Louis Armstrong, a blistering, brilliant solo, and he was Duke Ellington trying to bring together the various parts of the symphony in order to represent a whole. 
 
But at the end of the day, they just cold blooded with their black, oratorical genius, and to see that on display for the nation and to be free of the encumbrance of office. There was something free about them, not having the obligation to toe the line to when they go low, we go high. She just said, I'm going to do what I got to do. And he laid it out in such beautiful terms that it was good to breathe the air of their freedom, because they help liberate us as well. 
 
COATES: You know, that's really striking to make that comparison. Because remember, OK, last night, you heard from Secretary Hillary Clinton, who spoke about shattering a glass ceiling.
 
DYSON: Right.
 
COATES: And that she saw what on the other side, she saw freedom. And what you're talking about, there is something that we saw that was freeing, I think, for both of them, no longer to be tethered to their political roles, although their roles within the party are still quite, quite influential. 
 
KAREN FINNEY, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Oh, no doubt Absolutely. And look, they both acknowledge that they are willing to get out there and do the work. And part of the assignment tonight, which they both did beautifully. She, I have to be honest, a little -- she was just brilliant. I mean, just drop the mic brilliant, in part because she made it personal. I think this goes with Dr. Dyson is talking about Dyson, sorry, just brilliantly made it part. 
 
I mean, when she said they tried to make people afraid of us, that is how I felt all four years of Donald Trump that he was trying to make white people afraid of me because of my skin color.
 <br>[01:10:06]
 
And so many and thinking about friends of mine who are Latino who felt that way, when or Muslim Americans, and just the divisiveness and the rhetoric and the fact that he's gone back to it just with reckless abandon in ways that are dangerous. 
 
I mean, he put her children in danger with that rhetoric. And you could just feel, it felt to me, she was like, if I'm going to get dressed up and get my makeup on and put my shoes on and come out here, I'm going to tell you what I think. But both of them, the last thing, I'll just say, President Obama, yes, he prosecuted the case, he laid it out. But they both, in their own way, said, but don't be fooled. We got work to do. This is not going to be easy, and we can't get caught up on, we can't let perfect be the enemy of the good. And we got to, you know, just straight talk. We got to focus on the end goal. 
 
COATES: Let me ask you, because yesterday, we were having a conversation, you know, I remember you were critical of President Biden and being able to accomplish a mission of understanding and completing the assignment that his tone did not necessarily match the enthusiasm of joy going forward. What did you make of the combination of these two speeches? And frankly, let's not forget about second gentleman Doug Emhoff also spoke to.
 
Although, I mean, I don't know what to say. I mean second gentleman and first lady, I just did -- did hold older.
 
DYSON: You know what? He married to a black genius. 
 
COATES: What did you say? A double headed fountain of oratorical genius. I turn to you, what did you think about that collective? Did you feel as though they understood the assignment? Or are there some shortcomings that you think can be exploited by the Trump campaign and counter programming? 
 
DAVID POLYANSKY, FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF TO SENATOR TED CRUZ: Well, both, look, they're both incredibly talented. We saw that here tonight. They were the right messengers driving the right message for this crowd and this audience and the base.
 
And so, you know, not only talking about and painting a picture for people that were in this audience or back at home that want to go out and door walk for Democrats, that was an incredibly powerful message today. 
 
Will it impact undecided voters in the seven swing states? I don't know. I mean, at the end of the day, I think President Obama did a good job recognizing that people will still hurting economically. I think we saw that missing yesterday. 
 
But at the end of the day, people are still worried about feeding their kids, putting food on the table, sending them to school. They're still worried about crime in the border and everything that comes in between. And I'm not sure pointing the finger at Donald Trump for what's happened over the last four years is going to fly. 
 
And so, I think they understood their mission. They did an incredible job. But at the end of the day, when we all go home, at the end of this week, it's going to be a tied race, and it's going to be up to the Vice President and Donald Trump to make that case to voters in those seven states. 
 
COATES: Well, fear mongering, as you know, I want to get into one second. Fear mongering is obviously not a policy. Complaining about fear mongering is also not sufficient policy. But they both are two sides of a coin. I think many voters are thinking about. 
 
But just to further talk about a famous phrase, I want you to weigh in on this. Of course, Jamal, that President Obama spoke about the circular firing squad. He was warning back just several years ago about Democrats not eating their own how often have you heard this phrase? Well, the former First Lady, Michelle Obama, was also urging Democrats in the speech tonight not to undermine their own potential success. Listen what she said, Jamal.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OBAMA: We cannot get a Goldilocks complex about whether everything is just right, and we cannot indulge our anxieties about whether this country will elect someone like Kamala instead of doing everything we can to get someone like Kamala elected. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: I have to laugh a little bit at busy, Phillips, her face was kind of like, right? We saw you busy. We got it. Jamal, what do you think of that? 
 
SIMMONS: And that was Lacey Schwartz, who was next to her was having a very good time the Lieutenant Governor New York sweat. So this is exactly what I want to pick up on, because Karen started to say this, and I think it was very important about making the perfect enemy of the good. 
 
And one thing that's been happening over the last few weeks, I think those of us who are watching this maybe get a little concerned about there is this euphoria that has come around the Vice President, and it is excitement, and everybody's into it. 
 
But one thing that number, we saw a number she had an economic number that gained before she ever put an economic plan out. This is telling you that people have something they're really invested in about her, and they see her as something that's there for them. 
 
So many people may be reading something of their own into her before they actually hear her speak, which is a great place to be in politics.
 <br>[01:15:04]
 
The nervousness is when somebody says something that counters that, when the Republicans drop an avalanche of an -- avalanche of negative media on her, and we start to hear things that maybe don't line up with what we thought we were going to get when we got Kamala Harris, then people start to move away from that. 
 
And I think what they said tonight was very important. You're going to hear things. They're going to come for her. They're going to try to make this about her and make it negative. We can't fall for it. Don't make Goldilocks decisions. This is about sticking to the plan. Do the work. Just get her elected. COATES: We have more to talk about this. And of course, a lot of that
 
 is kind of synonymous with don't judge me by against the Almighty, but by the alternative. It's so funny how, what do they say? It's only like really seven plot lines in the history of all storytelling. Similar for politics. Everyone stand by now. 
 
I want to bring in CNN Harry Enten, he is live at the CNN/POLITICO Grill. Harry, what is going on at that grill tonight?
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: It is absolutely bonkers, even more filled than last night. And of course, we have the celebrities coming on in. I got my friend over here. Come over here. Chris Witaske. For those of you who don't know, is on The Bear he plays, Pete. Now I will say The Bear is a little strong for me, but my girlfriend makes me watch it, so I have watched it. 
 
Pete, we're in Chicago, right here.
 
CHRIS WITASKE, ACTOR: Chris. You called me Pete.
 
ENTEN: I called you Pete because I get confused. I get confused sometimes characters and the people that they play.
 
WITASKE: Yes.
 
ENTEN: Or the people that play the characters. So what are you thinking about what's going on here in the DNC night number two, Chris?
 
WITASKE: Well, so I'm here on behalf of the Creative Coalition. We're fighting for better funding for the arts and schools and stuff. But I got to tell you, Harry, it is an honor to be talking to you, because you are my -- by far favorite guy on CNN. 
 
ENTEN: Oh.
 
WITASKE: Yes. And I'll tell you why, because you got good shtick. 
 
ENTEN: Oh, thank you. 
 
WITASKE: This guy has great shtick. OK, and that goes -- that's going to get you far in this business. Tapper, be damned. Blitzer, get lost. Harry's the guy. 
 
ENTEN: Laura. Laura, I think I got to put that on my resume. So let me ask you.
 
WITASKE: Yes.
 
ENTEN: You're in Chicago. 
 
WITASKE: Yes.
 
ENTEN: We're all enjoying the time. I am especially enjoying this segment so far, Mr. Witaske. How's the energy feeling here? WITASKE: Huge. I was -- I had the honor of being in there tonight, and
 
 man. Michelle, Barack, they tore the roof off of that place. There hasn't been that kind of energy in the United Center since Jordan and Pippin and Rodman were running up and down the court. It was awesome. 
 
ENTEN: Well, let me just say we've got Jordan and Pippin right here.
 
WITASKE: That's right.
 
ENTEN: And I am going to toss it back to maybe Rodman? I don't know you want to play Dennis Rodman, Laura. 
 
WITASKE: She could be Rodman.
 
ENTEN: You could be great rebounder. You can take that.
 
COATES: No, actually, you know what fellas. Fun fact. United Center, I was the first president of Sky Fan Club, just saying.
 
ENTEN: Wow.
 
COATES: What? Yes.
 
ENTEN: How that turn out?
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COATES: But shout out to you BJ Armstrong. I like you. Harry Enten, thank you so much. What several Republicans tonight crossing into what should be hostile territory and criticizing their own party for bowing to Donald Trump, one who spoke on the DNC stage, Mayor John Giles of Mesa, Arizona, Republican is my guest next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:21:51]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR JOHN GILES (R) MESA, ARIZONA: I have an urgent message for the majority of Americans who like me are in the political middle. John McCain's Republican Party is gone, and we don't owe a damn thing to what's been left behind. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: That was the mayor of Mesa, Arizona, John Giles, a lifelong Republican, criticizing his own party and telling the screen on crowd and the audience worldwide that he is voting for Kamala Harris. He's one of many Republicans said to speak this week. And of course, along with the former Georgia Lieutenant Governor Jeff Duncan, former Congressman Adam Kinzinger and former aide to Mike Pence, Olivia Troy. 
 
Mayor John Giles joins me now. Mayor, thank you for joining. Very strong and passionate speech that you gave this evening. I do wonder what the response has been over time. This is not the first instance we heard you describe your disaffection in part with the party that now is. What has been the response from your fellow Republicans about your position now? 
 
GILES: Well, it's been mixed. Certainly, folks that are in the leadership of what's now the Republican Party have been very critical, and I've been officially censured by the party. But I've been also taken back by the positive response I've gotten from my friends and neighbors who very much identify with this notion that the political middle is no longer represented by the Republican Party. 
 
People like Kari Lake, you know, literally are telling us to get the hell out of the room in Arizona. So the Republican Party is shrinking. The tent is getting smaller and smaller. And I think everyone, with the exception of maybe some of the party leadership, sees that that is a spiral that is not healthy for the future of the Republican Party. 
 
COATES: If the Republican middle is without a home, do you find that home in the Democratic Party, or do some find that home on the couch? 
 
GILES: Well, that that's the fear, and that's really my message is to tell people that feel maybe a little homeless politically, that sitting this out is not an option. If you come to the determination that you can't support Donald Trump for president, you really need to look very seriously at voting for Kamala Harris. Sitting it out is really a vote for Donald Trump. 
 
COATES: There was somebody else, former Trump White House press secretary, Stephanie Grisham. She also spoke the DNC and she blasted her former boss. Listen to what she had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHANIE GRISHAM, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: Behind closed doors Trump mocks his supporters. He calls them basement dwellers. He has no empathy, no morals and no fidelity to the truth. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: When you hear that, of course, I do wonder, is that going to be something that will resonate with voters who are wondering where their home is, wondering whether they should support Donald Trump. Would hearing that from someone like her change or influence their mind? 
 
GILES: Yes. I mean, like I say, I'm getting an overwhelming response from rank and file, middle of the road, politically middle people. But of course, Donald Trump, as we know has this hardcore base that will hear that nothing will phase them. 
 <br>[01:25:05]
 
And so that's right now the direction of the party. More and more mainstream people, more and more politically middle people are just choosing to not swim upstream in the Republican Party, and they're becoming independents. In Arizona, for example, there's as many independents as there are
 
 Republicans or Democrats. And that's the phenomenon that Donald Trump has created with the exodus from the Republican Party. 
 
COATES: That's striking, given the swing state nature and, of course, all eyes on Arizona. What's also striking, of course, is there are some who are voting on issues, whether it's from productive rights or health care, or the more broad economy, or the issue of immigration, which I know is very important in your state, and frankly, more states across the country.
 
Would the policies of the Harris-Walz administration that might be anticipated, linking back to the Biden Harris ticket. Do you think that that policy will serve the Arizonans that you have spoken to who are concerned about their future?
 
GILES: I think they can. She has won me over on the border and immigration policies. 
 
COATES: How so?
 
GILES: Well, I think people need to understand that executive orders are no substitute for congressional action when it comes to immigration reform, things like DACA and the asylum seeking, you know, changes that the Biden administration has made recently. They're great, but you know, the first time they go to court, they're likely not to withhold with stand up to scrutiny. 
 
So, the real answer is the bipartisan immigration and border package that was negotiated by our senator Sinema and Senator Lankford, that was the once in a generation opportunity to have meaningful progress at the border. Donald Trump, for his own political personal gain, killed that because he wanted to have that divisive wedge, emotional issue to run on as president of United States so -- and Kamala Harris has already said that she still endorses that plan, and if she's elected, she'll work hard to get that adopted. 
 
So for a border state mayor like me, that's music to my ears, and Donald Trump is the opposite of that. 
 
COATES: We'll see what the voters. Thanks Mayor. A pleasure to have you here. Thank you for joining. I appreciate it.
 
GILES: Thank you.
 
COATES: Much more from tonight's blockbuster speeches, what former President Barack Obama had to say about his Vice President, Joe Biden. After this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:30:39] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I can say without question that my first big decision as your nominee turned out to be one of my best and that was asking Joe Biden to serve by my side as vice president. 
 
History will remember Joe Biden as an outstanding president who defended democracy at a moment of great danger and I am proud to call him my president, but I am even prouder to call him my friend.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAURA COATES, CNN ANCHOR: Former President Barack Obama, giving his tribute to the current president of the United States, Joe Biden in tonight's keynote DNC speech. 
 
My panel is back with me along with Marc Caputo, national political reporter for "The Bulwark: as well. 
 
I mean, listen, we knew yesterday was a day of flowers being given -- political flowers being given to President Joe Biden. I do wonder, given the backstories that we'd all been hearing a bad reporting on, did that strike you that he made a point to suggest that he had confidence in his decision.
 
MARC CAPUTO, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, "THE BULWARK": I mean, he had to say it after all and he's right that Joe Biden was his first decision. Joe Biden helped him get elected. And then ultimately from all of the reporting we've seen, Obama was among those who didn't want Biden to run for reelection. 
 
And this is -- this Democratic Party is the house that Obama built. And you really saw that tonight.
 
COATES: You know, interestingly enough, we talk about from Mayor Giles in those (ph) conversation that many feel the Republican Party that they knew does not exist. 
 
Is the same true for Democrats? Or is it doubling down? And there is a recognition that these passing of the torches, whether it's from Biden to Obama to Harris, shows some continuity that will actually inure to their benefit?
 
MICHAEL ERIC DYSON, PROFESSOR OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN DIASPORA STUDIES, VANDERBILT: Yes, I think so. Look, I mean, it is the house that Obama built, but a hell of an addition added by Kamala Harris is pretty remarkable now. She's expanding the party in interesting ways. She's more forthright on issues. 
 
Look, Obama is Jackie Robinson. His greatest strength was his ability to keep quiet in the face of white hostility, so that he wouldn't undermine the policy in civic piety (ph). That's a genius in its own right. 
 
But Kamala Harris has the potential to become Willie Mays, that figure who was able to swing for the fences with joy to say, hey kid catching a ball. She's able to invest a level of joy in the whole political process that's pretty remarkable. 
 
So I think she's bringing some kind of joie de vivre that is remarkable in its own right. 
 
COATES: Yet her laugh is so triggering for so many, especially one person. And you heard the second gentleman, Doug Emhoff tonight, talk about that laugh and that he loves it. 
 
I know we heard from the Obamas but we heard from him too. Listen to what he had to say about that moment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DOUG EMHOFF, SECOND GENTLEMAN OF THE UNITED STATES: I got Kamala's voicemail and I just started rambling. Hey, it's Doug. She called me back and we talked for an hour and we laugh. 
 
You know that laugh. I love that laugh. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES: Hey, it's Doug. I know that was really endearing and humanizing when we often see the role of a first lady. But we're hearing it more and more in the historic nature of a second gentleman.
 
KAREN FINNEY, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Absolutely. And he was perfectly comfortable admitting that he's a big dork. I mean, that's what we so on the stage, right? Because he's right. A guy leaves you a message at 8:30 in the morning. You're getting to I don't know that I would have called him back. I got to be honest
 
So this is part of what spouses do and they give you particularly in politics, people are looking for another entry point into understanding who you are. What your values are. What you like as a part -- as if you're part of a family. What do you like as part of that family? 
 <br>[01:34:48]
 
FINNEY: And I thought he did a beautiful job talking about that. But also grounding her in family, grounding her in core values. 
 
But also as someone who is part of -- in a modern America -- this is a modern American family, a blended family. And he didn't shy away from talking about that. And that, you know, it's not always easy and that it's complicated.
 
And also I have to say panning to his daughter and she was so excited and his -- it was a really lovely moment and that's what you want in a speech from a spouse. You want to feel that sort of warmth and get a sense of who they are. 
 
COATES: Yet we didn't -- and we heard from family members of Donald Trump for the RNC. We didn't hear from the former first lady Melania, although she's certainly made an appearance and she was there.
 
Given what Karen says, does that impact the way voters might see Trump in his quest to be more humanized? 
 
DAVID POLYANSKY, FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF OF SEN. TED CRUZ: Oh, I don't think so. I look, I've been -- 
 
COATES: But then, why is that? 
 
POLYANSKY: I think one of the best -- because I think one of the best speeches at the RNC was his granddaughter. It's one thing to talk about your spouse. It's another to talk about your granddad and what he means to you. 
 
And I thought that was one of the most -- not just the most humanizing moments that we saw at the RNC itself, I think it's one of the most humanizing moments in Donald Trump's, you know, professional, political career that we've seen. 
 
And I thought she did an incredibly effective job as did, you know, as did the first gentleman tonight. Again, it's about humanizing, you know, their partner or their family member and doing it in a way that look at the end of the day, people are going to vote about immigration and the economy and they're going to vote on abortion and everything in between. But they also want to like somebody and feel that they're relatable. 
 
DYSON: But isn't there a difference between you granddaughter and your spouse and the -- 
 
COATES: One would hope so.
 
(CROSSTALKING)
 
DYSON: But I mean -- I mean in terms of the -- 
 
POLYANSKY: I'm going to ask Marc that.
 
CAPUTO: I'm from Florida, I'm not going to -- 
 
(CROSSTALKING)
 
CAPUTO: I'm not going to say -- 
 
(CROSSTALKING)
 
DYSON: But what I'm saying is there's a difference -- the stereotype. 
 
I'm saying the difference is this. Is that the lack of Melania's presence there indicts the hypocrisy of a Donald Trump who continually speaks about familial intimacy and yet he lacks it. Who talks about religion and yet he doesn't adhere to some of the basic tenets in terms of family.
 
So I wouldn't let him off that easily. That's an evasion that speaks to the fact that the glaring absence of your own wife who doesn't want to kiss you, who doesn't want to be intimate with you -- that says something to voters as well.
 
POLYANSKY: Yes.
 
DYSON: About what kind of man he is or he isn't. POLYANSKY: I'm not comfortable going there. Look, I think -- I think the first lady stood next to him for four years in the White House by his side every step of the way and has been a champion, not just for him, but for their family and the privacy of their son as he's grown up.
 
Look, I'm not going to speak to who's -- who goes on a stage doesn't matter. Who stands with somebody through the tough times does. And we all experienced that in our own way and in our own lives. I'm not going to do that.
 
CAPUTO: I think -- I think what you're getting at though, is one of the problems that Donald Trump is starting to face is Harris is being defined as a personality. And this used to be a race where he was dominating on issues and issues are starting to take a backseat And personality is starting to take a front seat and he loses on personality. 
 
He was winning on the two biggest issues -- 
 
POLYANSKY: For now.
 
CAPUTO: -- inflation and immigration.
 
(CROSSTALKING)
 
CAPUTO: Losing, not lost.
 
FINNEY: But he was -- in 2016 though he did make it about personality. And here's a little secret about politics. It is not a rational exercise. People rarely vote with their head. They vote with their heart. 
 
And it is, you know, yes, we talk about the issues and they matter. But at the end of the day, it's do I trust that person? Do I feel a connection? Do I feel like they share my values.
 
And again, that was part of why Doug's speech was so important. The Obamas were so important because again all this credentialing and talking about who this person is from a value perspective, is about something deeper and it's about saying trust, what you are feeling right now. 
 
The joy that we were talking about last night, that people were -- this night was about telling people trust that feeling. You can trust that feeling in your gut and trust it all the way to November. 
 
COATES: Well, you know, Steve Kerr made that point about what we -- what we note and compare for whether it's a coach or a teacher or anything else. What is the criteria for one who leads the country? Voters have to decide that very issue. 
 
Thank you so much, everyone. Great talking to you. 
 
There are tons of star power at the DNC tonight from the Obamas to Common to Little John (ph) and a host of other celebrities, including none other than Anthony Anderson, who I caught up with at the CNN Political Grill. Our conversation and our duet is next.
 <br>[01:39:34]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COATES: Well, earlier tonight I caught up with someone special. Ever heard of a little show called "Blackish"? Well, the star of that show, Anthony Anderson was at the CNN Grill tonight.
 
And here is our conversation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COATES: Now, look who we found in the CNN Grill if it's not Anthony. Oh, my goodness. I'm so glad to see you today. 
 
ANTHONY ANDERSON, ACTOR: Yes. I just came over here for a (INAUDIBLE) and got sucked into an interview with Laura Coates. Some dude was sitting at my table wearing your socks. 
 
COATES: That was Harry Enten.
 
ANDERSON: Yes.
 
COATES: It's a whole thing, but I mean -- what do you have my socks on? 
 
ANDERSON: I don't have your socks on, but I'm going to wear them tomorrow. I'm going to go find some. 
 
COATES: Well, you know what I don't even have anymore.
 
ANDERSON: No? Ok.
 
COATES: So I'm going to get a different swag. Would a root beer float (ph) work?
 
ANDERSON: No. We'll see.
 
COATES: We'll see. 
 
But listen, you are here at the DNC. History is being made. 
 
ANDERSON: Yes.
 
COATES: I'm looking at your pin "Men for Choice". One of the big issues of course, reproductive rights, health care more broadly.
 
Tell me why do you think people should really lean in right now about the election?
 
ANDERSON: you know, I think this road is a crazy place that we live in. And you know, a lot of people who sit at home and don't vote are making a mistake because mistake because by not voting, they are voting for the opposition, whoever that opposition may be. 
 
And I think we all need to get out and vote and make a change and have a say in whatever it is that we're doing. 
 
"Men for Choice", women's reproductive rights health care -- all of that. You know, we all have a voice and we need to express that.
 
COATES: It's so important to think about the way in which people have to stand up for what they believe in, even if it does not immediately and obviously impact themselves.
 
You have been somebody who has been an advocate, outspoken on issues of health care, outspoken at issues of justice more broadly.
 
A lot of people who are in the entertainment space and are of your stature and your talent will want to stay away from all politics. You don't feel that way. Why? 
 
ANDERSON: No. We -- you know, we all have a platform and we should speak from that platform and voice our opinion. You know -- good, bad, or indifferent. And that's what it is.
 <br>[01:44:51]
 
ANDERSON: You know, I'm here with the creative coalition and we are lobbying for, you know, the National Endowment for the Arts. You know, sometimes they want to zero out that on the balance sheet for us. 
 
But yet the political world turns to us as artists to help, you know, bring people to the table to talk, to vote, to galvanize people, to get them out in the streets and fight for rights, you know, on either side of the table. 
 
So I'm here for that. I'm here to raise money for that and raise awareness for that. Most people turn to artists to escape their reality. So why don't we have anything? Why -- why do we need to fight for an endowment, for things that people use to escape. And art is -- art is something that's universal and its speaks to the world. 
 
We speak about politics. We speak about religion. We speak about health. We speak about all those things. So it's important for us to be here.
 
COATES: And through all the roles you've played, you have really been somebody that people relate to. You've become the every-man. You've become somebody. People respect your talent and your mind. 
 
And I was reading somewhere, it said fiction is alive. It tells the truth. And maybe art is one of the ways to explore our politics in a safe space. 
 
Do you ever feel though that the way in which artists are being brought into politics is too late for the conversations to start. 
 
ANDERSON: It's never too late for any conversation to start.
 
You know, art imitates life. And that's what it is. It's a reflection and a microcosm of the world in which we live. And you know, we get up there. You may not agree with what I have to say. I may not agree with what you have to say. But it creates dialogue.
 
And hopefully we have a better understanding of each other's points of view at the end of that dialog. That's what it's about for me. 
 
COATES: Well, what it's about for all of us is fandom because we all were feeling -- when you walked in the room, everyone was so excited to see you. People got up from their chair and may be offered you their food.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. Somebody -- yes.
 
COATES: That always happens?
 
ANDERSON: Yes -- not always but you know -- somebody did offer me a root beer float. I'm a diabetic but I can't take it.
 
COATES: Oh. That was Jake Tapper who did that. That was Jake Tapper. Jake Tapper asked me to say that to you. 
 
ANDERSON: OK. Cool. Thank you, Jake. 
 
COATES: I knew better.
 
ANDERSON: That's ok. 
 
COATES: I knew better.
 
ANDERSON: I will still drink it.
 
COATES: Oh, OK.
 
ANDERSON: I got my insulin. I'm cool. 
 
And you know what, now the campaign would like you to talk about insulin on behalf of them. 
 
I'm going to leave you right now. But I'm so glad to have you on. I want to thank you so much. 
 
ANDERSON: Thank you. It's a pleasure seeing you.
 
COATES: Thank you. Always great to have you. 
 
ANDERSON: Next time, have me in the studio. 
 
COATES: What do you -- what do you mean.
 
ANDERSON: I'm always in the background? 
 
COATES: What do you mean? You don't -- you don't want to have to scream at me? Real quick. 
 
ANDERSON: No, I want to scream at you from across the desk. Got to beat on something.
 
COATES: That can be arranged. (CROSSTALKING)
 
ANDERSON: We'll have a serious political debate. I could learn something from you. 
 
COATES: You want to debate. We can do it right now. 
 
ANDERSON: Whatever. I am a fan. 
 
COATES: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: I just want to say I'm a fan of you.
 
COATES: Oh wow.
 
ANDERSON: You know, when you started your tenure, the way that you have, I was like, oh congratulations. I can't wait to meet that sister one day. And here we are. 
 
COATES: Thank you so much.
 
ANDERSON: I like you. 
 
COATES: The feeling is very mutual. We all still watch your shows on (INAUDIBLE), on Loop and love every minute. And it's always great when you meet someone that you think you like on television and you end up loving them. So nice to meet.
 
ANDERSON: OK. What are your kids names again? 
 
COATES: Their names are Adrian and Sidney. 
 
ANDERSON: Adrian and Sidney. I'm here with your mama. I know you guys are a fans of a show, so thank you. Love you guys.
 
COATES: Don't tell their daddy. 
 
ANDERSON: That's ok. I might be their new daddy. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COATES: That's another special treat from the CNN Grill. Our Harry Enten is there with comedian and impressionist Matt Friend, whose impression we'll get -- we get tonight? We're going to have to find out in just a moment.
 <br>[01:48:46]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COATES: Well, the VIPs are out in force tonight at the CNN Grill. Harry Enten has been tracking them down for all of us. 
 
Harry, I think you have a familiar face there. Is that comedian Matt Friend. Hey Matt.
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: It is Matt Friend. He is here with me. And I'm a familiar face, Matt's a familiar face. 
 
Matt Friend, what are your thoughts on the evening so far? 
 
MATT FRIEND, COMEDIAN: Well, first of all, thank you for having me. I love being on CNN late at night. It's -- we're all a little bit delirious. The DNC has been highly energetic. 
 
Obama was in the room, surreal for me as a Chicago kid to see that. There's definitely an energy happening here. I love that we're filming in this bizarre venue, the CNN -- the CNN Grill but I look like I'm Jack Schlossberg's intern or something. I'm not sure what's happening. But insane vibes here tonight.
 
ENTEN: Insane?
 
FRIEND: And Doug was great and Michelle Obama brought the house down. It was phenomenal. 
 
ENTER: So what would be Barack Obamas thoughts on the evening? 
 
FRIEND: Well actually, I'm so glad you asked. Because if you notice, actually, I spent a lot of time talking about what Donald Trump is going to do if he wins. He is going to tear this country down.
 
And we must remember that this election is about being your brother's keeper, being your sister's keeper. Get out to the polls, make your voice heard and realize that in America, we have a choice. And that choice is to defend our democracy. Thank you so much. 
 
ENTER: Thank you. Thank you, former president Barack Obama. 
 
Now, what would Donald Trump's response be to Barack Obama?
 
FRIEND: Well, I will tell you, it was a pathetic DNC. Excuse me, stop laughing. You're a pig, ok.
 
FRIEND: I would tell you that Barack Hussein Obama -- Hussein Obama, he gave a nasty speech. He was talking a lot about various things. It's totally natural. 
 
You have Kamala Harris, I talked about this at the National Association of Black Journalists. We don't even know what she is. Is it Black Indian? Nobody knows.
 
But it's a sad thing what's happening with this country. You have to go out to the polls and make should that I win. Thank you very much. 
 
ENTEN: Well, thank you. I believe my dear friend, Matt Friend -- 
 
FRIEND: Yes.
 
ENTEN: -- that you have a new impression you want to break out. We've got a surprise for the audience here. I believe it is going to be the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, Governor Tim Walz. You ready for this. FRIEND: I mean J.D. Vance, this is just a crazy guy and I can't wait to debate the guy. I got to tell you. I'm a football coach. I know a thing or two about winning. And I got to tell you as soon as I win this damn thing pour the Gatorade on me, bring out Kamala and let's celebrate. 
 <br>[01:54:51]
 
FRIEND: Needs work. It needs work. I'm going to work on it. I'm going to work on my Tim Walz impression on my couch. And that is not a J.D. Vance reference. Yes.
 
ENTEN: It's not a J.D. Vance reference. And you said -- 
 
FRIEND: Too much to work with.
 
ENTEN: -- who do I remind you of?
 
FRIEND: You kind of remind me of like a young Chuck Schumer or something. 
 
ENTEN: I thought you said I was Chuck Schumer's nephew.
 
FRIEND: You might be Chuck Schumer's nephew. I don't know. I like the Harry Enten thing going on, but the one thing the DNC was mentioning was a little Mitch -- to toss (ph) a commercial, this is Mitch McConnell and so thrilled to be back on America's finest network, CNN. I've always loved it. And it's -- the DNC has been great and you're a wonderful young reporter.
 
Yes, anyway.
 
ENTEN: well, from this crazy place, the CNN Grill, Laura Coates -- 
 
FRIEND; I love you, Laura and I love CNN. And thank you for having me back on. It truly is just to recap, it's electric here. 
 
CNN is at the front of it and it's hard to articulate though. 
 
ENTEN: There's just -- there's just a lot of energy.
 
FRIEND: Lot of energy.
 
ENTEN: A lot of energy, a lot of -- 
 
(CROSSTALKING)
 
ENTEN: -- a high-energy person in Laura Coates. Thanks.
 
FRIEND: Thank you. We love you Laura. 
 
ENTEN: Isn't our anchor sweet? Laura -- 
 
COATES: Love you guys -- Harry Enten, Matt Friend. This is what happens when you give people some root beer floats and a microphone.
 
Love to have all of you guys there. So glad to see you all. 
 
And everyone, make sure to check out Matt's new podcast. It's called "Friend in High Places".
 
Much more of our special coverage of the Democrat National Convention coming up next.
 <br>[01:56:23]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)