Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia: 60+ Killed, 100+ Wounded In Concert Hall Attack; Catherine, Princess of Wales, Reveals Cancer Diagnosis; Blinken: Israel Risks Further Isolation With Rafah Offensive; Russia Strikes Ukraine's Power Grid. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired March 23, 2024 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[01:00:27]
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company. 
 
We're following two big stories this hour.
 
ISIS claiming responsibility for a terror attack inside of concert hall near Moscow that left dozens dead and wounded more than 100 others. 
 
And then -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CATHERINE, PRINCESS OF WALES: This, of course, came as a huge shock.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Princess Catherine reveals she's been diagnosed with cancer following weeks of speculation about her health.
 
ANNOUNCER: CNN breaking news.
 
HOLMES: The death toll from the terror attack on a concert hall near Moscow is now at least 60. ISIS says it was behind the attack and we're going to take you through some of the disturbing video that shows the attacks, the gunman, and people trying to escape.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(GUN SHOTS)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Other video shows the panic moments when gunman opened fire inside the auditorium where a concert audience was gathered. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(GUN SHOTS)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And from another angle, you can see what appears to be for gunman firing into the crowd. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(GUN SHOTS)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Now, there's a still image you see it there that appears to show the people who attacked the venue. Russian state media says they later left the scene in a white Renault.
 
CNN's Ivan Watson has covered Russia extensively. He joins me now from Hong Kong. 
 
First of all, let's start with the lightest on what you're hearing about what happened. 
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, this was a terrifying night on the outskirts of Moscow. The firefighters were still battling the blaze at the Crocus City Hall shortly before dawn, bringing in helicopters to try to put it out. We had calls coming from senior Moscow City official for blood donations for some of the more than 100 people who were wounded in what -- bears all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack, at least 60 people described as being a seriously wounded this official saying that the blood donations are, quote, a matter of life and death for dozens of people.
 
Let's take a listen to what one eyewitness had to say to Russian television in the aftermath of this attack.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I was sitting in the hall upstairs where the balconies were. We heard gunshots. At first, we didn't understand what had happened. Then I personally saw how them terrorists came in, started shooting everyone. In the end, they throw Molotov. Everything was set on fire. 
 
We were led to the exit. Turned out the exit was locked. We ran all over Crocus City trying to find the exit, but to no avail. We went into the basement of a Crocus City Hall and waited for the emergency services and got out.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WATSON: If exits were, in fact, locked as this survivor describes, it's not clear why, whether that was because of the venue organizers or because of the militants themselves, Michael.
 
We've heard from other people who were looking for missing loved ones in the aftermath of this attack. Now, the organization ISIS, the Islamic State, has claimed responsibility on an ISIS-affiliated telegram account, but provided no evidence to back that up. So we have not really heard from the Russian government who they believe could have been behind this incident, still very much focused on putting out the fire and dealing with the mass number of casualties of this terrible incident, Michael.
 
HOLMES: Yeah. Yeah. I wanted to ask you about how significant do you think it is that upon from a written statement in his name. We've not yet heard from Vladimir Putin, no leader reassuring the nation and so on. 
 
What do you make of that? 
 
WATSON: Right. I mean, there have been statements from his spokesperson says saying that he is appraised of this, that he's issued all of the orders to deal with this attack, and that he has expressed congratulations to the doctors who've been treating some of the wounded. 
 
But no, we have not seen the Russian president himself, who has been celebrating his election victory over the course of the last week, and who had given an address to the successor agency to the KGB, the FSB earlier this week on Tuesday, where he had played down and basically slammed warnings from the U.S. embassy in Moscow on March 7, which had warned U.S. citizens to stay away from large gatherings of people from concerts. 
 <br>[01:05:21]
 
In fact, saying that there was evidence of extremist planning, some kind of a terrorist attack in Moscow. And just this month, Michael, the Russian state news agency, RIA Novosti, had reported at least four incidents of Russian anti-terrorism agencies and law enforcement, cracking down, carrying out deadly operations against suspected militants, ISIS militants in Russia, including allegedly foiling a plot to attack a synagogue in Moscow. 
 
So this is very strange to have just days ago seeing the Russian president on camera of trying to dismiss warnings about potential extremist activities in Russia. And then we have an attack on a scale like this that has killed at least 60 people. 
 
And Michael, I recall other terrible acts of violence in Russia in past decades. Chechen militants who took over an entire theater in Moscow in 2002 for three nights, the death toll enormous as a result of that incident. 
 
There is a long history of violence act in Russia. And I'll just draw you to just last June, a Russian mercenary commander, Yevgeny Prigozhin, launched the dead march on Moscow and made it halfway there from the Ukrainian border until he was stopped. And then he was later -- he later died in a plane that blew up. 
 
There is a long history of deadly violence in Russia from different political actors and sometimes, it's very, very murky, Michael.
 
HOLMES: Yeah, absolutely, to say the least. Ivan Watson in Hong Kong -- thanks, Ivan. Jill Dougherty is an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. She's also former CNN Moscow bureau chief.
 
Good to see you, Jill, as always.
 
Now, early this month, it's interesting, the U.S. warns the Russians of the risk of an attack by ISIS in a public place, including concert venues. And Vladimir Putin early this week in a speech called those very warnings, quite provocative and outright blackmail. 
 
How does that look now? 
 
JILL DOUGHERTY, ADJUNCT PROFESSOR, GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY: I don't think it looks very good, obviously. I think the Kremlin is going to have real difficulty in explaining exactly how this happened, because, you know, if you look at the reports coming out of Moscow right now, they're actually apparently were not very many police around the response, the slow and it leads you to this question of what does Putin think he is going to be doing with this? I mean, they have to -- they have to explain it to their people and that to me is going to be very, very difficult. Hence, we haven't heard very much from them over the past few hours. 
 
HOLMES: Yeah. 
 
DOUGHERTY: And they have come up with an answer. 
 
HOLMES: Ukraine, of course, denies any involvement in this, and it'd be hard to see their motivation for something like this. If it indeed is ISIS-K, why would Russia would be a target for them? How might Russia respond? 
 
DOUGHERTY: Well, they have been to target over the years, you know, going way back to the late '90s. And recently, there were some reports that Russia was saying that it had foiled some type of possible attack. I believe it was on his synagogue. So there is concern and that does play into this.
 
Now, of course, there will be people who will say this is a provocation by the Russian government, that it wanted an excuse to do something. But we still don't know that precisely right now. I think the big thing Michael will be to look at who did they blame? Is it Ukraine? Is it ISIS? Is it something else that we simply don't know? 
 
HOLMES: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. The plenty of social media chatter about false flag. But who knows what the grandma is going to say. What -- what are the risks? What are the chances that this could particularly if its ISIS, be the start of something wider internally in Russia?
 
Moscow's mayor canceled all public events for the weekend, which would suggest at least a concern about that.
 
DOUGHERTY: I think they're going to be very concerned about that sincerely, if it is ISIS and even if they say it is not, but it actually is, that's another concern. Realistically, I think they have to be concerned.
 
But then it's -- you know, it's a political problem for Putin, too.
 <br>[01:10:00]
 
I think it looks bad for him, just days after an election where he presents himself as the protector of Russia. And then, all of a sudden, you have this really major attack, brutal killing. That undercuts any idea that he is the great protector. 
 
HOLMES: Yeah, that was actually got to be my next question. I mean, 87 percent of the vote to Putin, his message, he's not going anywhere. He's the only one who can provide security for Russia. 
 
So, what happens to that messaging especially so soon after the election? 
 
DOUGHERTY: That's the conundrum, isn't it? I think again, we have to go to who they blame because that will show what their communication strategy is all about. You know, if they blame, Ukraine, then it could be an excuse to even now were increases if its not increased enough, they attacks on Ukraine. If it is internal, maybe they say there were some internal forces, even some Russians, which we know there are some Russians within Russia who are carrying out attacks, then that could be a reason for cracking down internally. 
 
It could be, you know, an excuse justification for almost anything. But again, the lynchpin, the crucial thing is who do they blame and then how do they go after whoever that person or group is? 
 
HOLMES: Jill Dougherty, always good to see my friend. Thank you so much. 
 
DOUGHERTY: Thank you, Michael.
 
HOLMES: Now to the other major story we've been following, the cancer diagnosis of Catherine, princess of Wales. Messages of support are flooding into the future queen of England after she released a video message on Friday explaining her situation.
 
The princess didn't disclose what kind of cancer she has, but did say she's in the early stages of chemotherapy treatment. The news coming after weeks of speculation about her health. Since the announcement, well-wishers have been pouring in from around the globe, from heads of state and celebrities to regular people on the streets.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We just saw it and was very surprising and shocking. And we hope she's fine and she gets all the treatment. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's quite sad really. I feel very sympathetic for the family. First, the king, now, now Kate, been quite shocked really.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's a shame though to scrutiny around kind of, I guess, why she wasn't making appearances. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: U.S. President Joe Biden, among those expressing his support, saying in a social media post that he and the first lady joined, quote, millions around the world in praying for your full recovery, Princess Kate.
 
And the French President Emmanuel Macron also expressing his hopes for a full recovery and praising Kate's inspiring display of strength and resilience.
 
The princess has appealed for privacy in the coming weeks as she focuses on returning to full health. Social media has seen weeks and sometimes wild conjecture about Catherine and why she's been out of the public eye. 
 
CNN's Richard Quest with that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRINCESS KATE: It has been an incredibly tough couple of months for our entire family. 
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): After weeks of speculation, the princess of Wales dispelled the rumors and gave us the facts. 
 
PRINCESS KATE: In January, I underwent major domino surgery in London and at the time, it was thought that my condition was non-cancerous. The surgery was successful. However, tests after the operation found cancer had been present. My medical team that for advice that I should undergo a course of preventive chemotherapy. And I'm now in the early stages of that treatment.
 
QUEST: Suddenly, so clear why Kate's recovery after leaving the London clinic had taken so long and why she avoided the public eye.
 
PRINCESS KATE: This, of course, came as a huge shock. And William and I have been doing everything we can to process and manage this privately for the sake of our young family.
 
QUEST: The diagnosis is still visibly raw. But CNN understands the princess is and has been in good spirits.
 
Kate and Prince William are focusing on how to explain the diagnosis to their young children. The three last seen with their mother in the now infamous and doctored Mother's Day photo. The many edits fueling the rumors about the princess's health. That's all seems irrelevant now.
 
With King Charles also recovering from cancer, the princess's PR nightmare came with a delicate time for the royal family. 
 <br>[01:15:01]
 
It left William and Queen Camilla to hold the fort. Now as she heels, Princess Catherine is asking for privacy and time.
 
PRINCESS KATE: My work has always brought me a deep sense of joy and I look forward to being back when I'm able. For now, I must focus on making a full recovery 
 
QUEST: Britain has seemingly rallied behind its princess, Prince Charles, saying he was proud, praising Kate's courage. Under British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, wishing her a speedy recovery, promising the love and support of the entire country.
 
PRINCESS KATE: I am well and getting stronger every day by focusing on the things that will help me heal, in my mind, body, and spirit. And now, the princess of Wales hoped to be left alone to focus on her family and her recovery. 
 
Richard Quest, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: And CNN royal historian Kate Williams joins me now from London. 
 
Thanks for doing so, Kate. Devastating news for Kate and her family, such a young, energetic, vibrant woman. What was your initial reaction when you heard the news? 
 
KATE WILLIAMS, CNN ROYAL HISTORIAN: Well, it was shocking. It was heartbreaking. And as you say, it was just such a devastating surprise because we knew Kate had had surgery, very major surgery, but I think most of us, including me, thought that the medical matter had been dealt with and she was now in recovery. 
 
So, to hear this news was a real shock. And I think she said herself in her statement, if she said it was a huge shock, I mean, it must have been huge for her, she thinks that she's had the surgery, big surgery. She's feeling much better. 
 
And then a month later, she's told -- well, actually, there's cancerous matter here and you have to have chemotherapy. So, your heart goes out to her. 
 
HOLMES: Yeah, the family's motto is always been, what is it? Never complained, never explain. In a historical sense, how unusual is this kind of public announcement on video such candor in a way. I mean, the family in decades past has played health issues in a very private sometimes, secretive way. 
 
WILLIAMS: Oh, yes. The family have never really told us anything in the past. Example, the queen's father, George VI, he had cancer. There was an operating theater in Buckingham Palace that no one would know, even the queen, then the princess, didn't know herself, so she went off on tour and then he died while she was in Kenya and she didn't know. 
 
And, you know, also with the queen's health, also with Prince Phillip's health, we really weren't told that anything was wrong until the very end, and we are seeing totally unprecedented openness, telling us everything from the -- first, the king who said, not just he had an enlarged prostate, but then he said he had cancer and now, Kate, who has told as she's had cancer and she's also telling us what kind of treatment she's having with preventive chemotherapy.
 
So, really, we are in these new waters about whirl engagement. And I think it's so important because for two reasons. You know, the royals do want people to get checked, to encourage as because the earlier you catch cancer, the better, but also when a different world is not George VI was anymore. It's not 1952. There's social media, there's speculation and there's all kinds of possibilities. 
 
I mean, hospital records are hacked. That Kate's hospital records also, we understand someone in the hospital tried to get at them at least parts three the people. 
 
So, you know, they are I think being -- they want this openness, but it is also a product of the society we live in today with as Max was just saying, there's wild, wild speculations about Kate's health, which must have been a very upsetting to her. 
 
HOLMES: How much pressure will they be on the sometimes notorious British press to give her that that spec -- that space, respect what she's going through? I mean, I guess reality is presumably even if the British mainstream press does give her space, the independent paparazzi might not.
 
WILLIAMS: You are right? There's the press and there's paparazzi, and there's also the difference between the British press, which can -- despite what people say about the tabloids, often be quite deferential towards the royal family, and then there is international press. And it is very problematic because Kensington Palace has said, we don't want speculation on the cancer. 
 
When we -- when you see Kate out and about, whether its with her family or perhaps going to an appointment, she's obviously doing outpatients at the moment, having chemotherapy, don't photo her, don't video, and that's all very well, even to the world photographers. 
 
But, you know, people have camera phones now, they take snaps, they take photos. And this is -- the world has changed. So although I think I think that if people -- I don't think that these peoples who buying the footage, I think people don't want to see it. This is huge surge of sympathy for Kate and everything I see on social media saying leave her alone. 
 <br>[01:20:01]
 
You know, she shouldn't have to be out speaking about this. Let's give her some space. So I do hope she is given some space.
 
But there is also the other point that simply royals are never given any space anywhere. As the queen's governor said, in the 1930s, royals are only private in the womb. And that was in the 1930s. 
 
HOLMES: Yeah. Kate Williams, really appreciate it. Thanks so much, very early in the morning there for you. Thanks for making the time.
 
WILLIAMS: Good to see you 
 
HOLMES: And we'll have much more on Kate, princess of Wales and her cancer diagnosis, as well as more on the terror attack in Russia throughout the hour.
 
But coming up next, the latest diplomatic efforts to reach a ceasefire in Gaza. And the war's heavy toll on Palestinian women and children.
 
Also, U.S. senators making final moves to prevent a partial government shutdown. We'll tell you about the votes being taken right now.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Preparations for a partial us government shutdown have stopped now according to a White House official. The word came after senators announced just over an hour ago that they reached the last minute deal to approve a set of funding bills. Majority Leader Chuck Schumer making the announcement on the Senate floor.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), MAJORITY LEADER: We have just reached an agreement to complete the job of funding the government. It is good for the country that if we have reached this bipartisan deal, it wasn't easy, but tonight, our persistence has been worth it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And these are live images coming to us from the U.S. Senate as senators taking a series of votes on amendments and will then vote to approve a $1.2 trillion funding package to keep the government open. The White House official says President Joe Biden will sign the funding bill on Saturday if the Senate gives it the final going.
 
After vetoing prior U.N. resolutions on Gaza, the U.S. saw its own draft resolution rejected by the Security Council on Friday. The measure received 11 votes in favor, but Russia and China use their veto powers to dismiss the proposal. It called for an immediate and sustained ceasefire, but tied it with the release of all remaining hostages. It used language the U.S. has previously not been willing to use before, but went too far for others.
 
The Biden administration had this response after the vote.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: Russian and China simply did not want to vote for resolution that was penned by the United States because it would rather see us fail than to see this council succeed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Meanwhile, America's top diplomat met with Israel's prime minister and war cabinet in Tel Aviv on Friday, all part of an intensive diplomatic push towards a ceasefire, along with the ongoing hostage negotiations. 
 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken says they had candid conversations about the war against Hamas.
 <br>[01:25:07]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE: A major military ground operation in Rafah is not the way to do it. It risks killing more civilians. It risks further isolating around the world and jeopardizing its long- term security and standing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: On the ground in Gaza, the ministry of health says the wars death toll surpassed 32,000 people on Friday, more than 74,000 have been wounded. Many thousands more are missing, beneath the rubble. The U.N. data shows around 70 percent of the victims in the war have been women and children.
 
I want to go live now to Jerusalem and Dominic Allen, the U.N. population fund representative for Palestine. 
 
And thanks for making the time. 
 
There are a million women and girls in Gaza. You were recently in Rafah and said doctors in Gaza are seeing, quote, nearly double the amount of complicated cases of births, more stillborn babies and neonatal deaths. 
 
What is life like specifically for women and girls in Gaza, right now? 
 
DOMINIC ALLEN, UNFPA REPRESENTATIVE FOR PALESTINE: Well, thanks, Michael. Thanks for having me on. 
 
And indeed been you from Jerusalem, I returned from Gaza last week and with us, UNFPA team on the ground, the situation is beyond catastrophic for women and girls and for UNFPA. And our focus, I left Gaza and remain terrified for the 1 million women and girls in Gaza, most especially those 180 women giving birth every single day, and we're in a race against the clock because famine is imminent. And half of Gaza's population faces catastrophic food insecurity. 
 
And that includes the pregnant women and breastfeeding women who are at higher risks. And, of course, their babies, which you spoke about when I was there from the women, the children, the heroic doctors and heroic midwives that I met with their exhausted, tired they face these unthinkable challenges and they report. And I can speak more about the doctors and midwives that I met with the different hospitals I visited. But indeed they describe because of the challenges for malnutrition, dehydration, they're seeing linked of course, with stress because of the fear, they're seeing more cases of stillbirths, of neonatal deaths, and complicated births, which means more complicated needs for them. 
 
So they're facing again, these unthinkable challenges. 
 
HOLMES: Yeah, we see, we see the videos, we see horrific image just women, children in Gaza, but I heard you say, and I'll quote you back to yourself. It's worse than I can describe, or that the pictures can show or that you can imagine, explain what you mean by that. 
 
ALLEN: I mean, not the emotions that you feel when you're visiting, when you're -- when you're -- when you're -- when we visited the Gaza City up into the north, we did this mission to deliver medical supplies to the only functioning maternity hospital in Gaza City, at Sabah (ph) hospital, and as we drove north, having coordinated the people that we passed, were gaunt, frail, emaciated -- I mean, the looks in their eyes or indescribable, Michael. 
 
I can't do justice of that and I'm sorry, the pictures don't do it either. To see a five-year-old as we drove through the military checkpoints to be able to move north, to see if a five-year-old what seemed like a five-year-old boy walking with a tank next to him and guns trend and holding his hands in the air with his sister behind him, holding a white flag, it -- again, its indescribable, the level of annihilation in Gaza City, a city which I visited many times over my time that I've served with Palestine. It's indescribable because it's unrecognizable to me, roads that don't function and buildings that a lot longer standing for me.
 
HOLMES: Yeah.
 
ALLEN: So, for me, the challenges are so big for women and girls. 
 
HOLMES: Yeah. I think you describe Gaza as being largely turned to dust. 
 
I can't -- I can't imagine how helpless doctors feeling in these situations, saying these things, being unable to help even doing caesarean sections without anesthetic. And then there's the issue of girls, women of menstruating age, and the issues they face with sanitation and so on. 
 
ALLEN: Indeed, I think I mean, we sat with in some of the camps I call them camps loosely because some of them are just plastic sheets with wood strewn together, standing on the sand and meeting and listening to women directly for what their needs are, aside from their concerns of being a mother and listening to the concerns of the pregnant women. 
 
Also, they have their own their own needs for dignity because there's no dignity in Gaza right now. They have their own needs for, as you said, sanitary products and menstrual hygiene management. But the broader needs are very clear in terms of the fear that their field, that's why they call and everybody we spoke to continues to call for the ceasefire. 
 <br>[01:30:01]
 
That they need help, that they need -- they needed to be able to take a moment of pause and collect themselves. So the challenges are unique for women and girls. They are the most vulnerable right now in Gaza. But it's also the doctors and midwives that you mentioned that they're doing heroic work when I visited the Sabah hospital, the north of the Emirati hospital in the south, you know, the big maternity hospital. They themselves are exhausted. They're working tirelessly. 
 
The health system is hanging by a thread and Dr. Haider (ph), who I spoke to said doctors right now are scared about the potential for a ground incursion and he seemed doctors leave the Emirati hospital, which is causing problems for his ability to be able to service the needs for pregnant women in Gaza right now. Dozens and dozens of women giving birth every single day.
 
I got to leave it there. Unfortunately, Dominic Allen in Jerusalem, thanks for your time and the work that you do. 
 
ALLEN: Thank you, Michael.
 
HOLMES: Coming up here on the program, we'll have the latest on the health of the princess of Wales and the attack in Russia.
 
Also, still to come, Ukraine's power grid takes a hit in one of Russia's largest attacks since the war began. You'll hear from people who were on the ground when drones and missiles came down.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:33:37]
 
HOLMES: You're watching. CNN NEWSROOM with me, Michael Holmes.
 
Returning now to one of the two big stories we're following this out. The revelation from Catherine, Princess of Wales, that she has cancer. There has been an outpouring of well-wishes from around the world since Catherine released a video on Friday afternoon explaining her condition, the news comes after weeks of speculation about her health in her message, the princess asked for privacy as she focused on chemotherapy treatment and returning to full health. 
 
And she took a moment to send a message of hope to people around the world who were also battling cancer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCESS KATE: At this time. I'm also thinking of all those whose lives have been affected by cancer. For everyone facing this disease, in whatever form, please do not lose faith or hope. You are not alone 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: ISIS, who's claiming responsibility for a terror attack in Russia that's killed at least 60 people, there is stunning and disturbing video of the attack showing gunmen opening fire on a crowd gathered for a concert.
 
Other video shows people taking cover inside the concert hall when the shots were fired. People whose loved ones were inside the hall say they are devastated.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[01:35:02]
 
SEMYON KHRAPTSOV, WIFE WAS IN CONCERT HALL (through translator): I'm in complete panic. My whole body hurts, even my heart. Blood pressure rose and all that. I don't know what to do. Complete hopelessness.
 
IGOR BOGODAYEV, WIFE WAS IN CONCERT HALL (through translator): I'm scared. I try not to panic to control myself, to think soberly. I do know what to do were standing here just waiting 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Now, there's still image also appears to show the people who attack the venue, Russian state media says they later left the scene in a white Renault vehicle.
 
In the aftermath, part of the concert hall was engulfed in fire and surrounded by emergency crews. 
 
The U.S. says it warned Russia weeks ago about the possibility of a terror attack. Our Oren Liebermann with more on that from Washington 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack according to a statement posted on an ISIS-affiliated news organization. But crucially, they have not provided any evidence to support this claim and although it's early in the investigative stages here, it's so soon after the attack itself. We haven't seen the U.S. or Russia weigh in here. Russia, of course, announced they were launching a criminal investigation, and the U.S. has been watching this space, but no corroboration yet from us officials.
 
According to two sources familiar with the intelligence, the U.S. had seen a steady stream of intelligence since back in November, warning that ISIS Khorasan, otherwise known as ISIS k, was playing to carry out a large-scale attack within Russia, one that would lead to a mass casualty incident here.
 
It was fairly specific intelligence according to one of those sources. And the U.S. felt that had a duty to warn here. So, some of that intelligence, at least was passed on to Russian counterparts and to the Russian government to warn them that an attack like this might be possible. What was done with that information on the Russian end of that, at least at this point, is incredibly difficult to know. 
 
It's also worth noting that on March 7th, the U.S. embassy in Moscow warned us citizens in the country to avoid large gatherings in polluting concerts because of the potential for an imminent attack by extremists. 
 
Now, we don't know yet if there is a connection between that steady stream of intelligence and that March 7 warning, but it is two data points that are worth keeping an eye on.
 
Its also worth pointing out that that March 7th warning was only for 48 hours and this attack came two weeks later.
 
Russian President Vladimir Putin dismissed that March 7 warning earlier this week in a speech to the FSB or at least to a presentation to the FSB. He called it provocative and dismissed it outright. So it's difficult to know how seriously the Russians took U.S. warning of a potential attack here. 
 
Now, the U.S. is still very much looking to see how this plays out and where the intelligence lead. But this is a space the U.S. was watching very closely. 
 
Oren Liebermann, CNN, in Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: The White House has condemned one of Russia's largest attacks on Ukraine's power grid. Washington says Fridays strikes show congressional Republicans need to approve the next round of military aid for Ukraine. Kyiv says the Kremlin five more than 150 drones and missiles going after power facilities across the country, at least three people were killed, more than a dozen others wounded. 
 
Fred Pleitgen with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): A Russian cruise missile firing off flares right before hitting Ukraine's largest hydroelectric power plant. The massive explosion, part of an early morning blitz, the Ukrainian say targeted areas across the entire country. 
 
The destruction massive, like in this town in the Zaporizhzhia region.
 
There were a lot of explosions after the first one, this woman says there was so much flying around, one couldn't realize. I had only one goal, to ensure that my child is alive. I rescued him from the rubble.
 
More than 1 million people are without power in what Kyiv calls one of the largest attacks in recent times. The Russians call this morning strikes retaliatory, also releasing video of their jets dropping aerial glide bombs near the front lines. 
 
Russia's defense ministry saying it targeted military facilities as the Kremlin steps up its war against Ukraine while trying to blame the U.S. and its allies for the escalation.
 
DMITRY PESKOV, RUSSIAN PRESS SECRETARY (through translator): Legally, it is a special military operation, but de facto, it has turned into a war for us after the collective West has started to increasingly raised the level of its involvement in the conflict. 
 
PLEITGEN: The latest Russian attacks come just a day after the Russians fired more than 30 missiles at Ukraine's capital Kyiv, the Ukrainians believe Moscow was targeting Ukraine's military intelligence headquarters as source tells CNN.
 
The Russians have tried to assassinate its leader, Carrillo Budanov, at least ten times. Kyiv says. Budanov's wife also recently fell ill with what the Ukrainian say was poisoning by a heavy metal, which he survived.
 
The Ukrainian say, delays in western military aid are costing them dearly on the battlefield. And in cities as civilians come under Russian missile and drone attacks.
 <br>[01:40:01]
 
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy seemingly taking a swipe at House Republicans holding up us military aid to Ukraine in Congress. Russian missiles do not suffer delays in the way aid packages to our country do, he writes. Shahed drones are not affected by indecision like some politicians are. 
 
And the Ukrainian say they need decisively more Western air defense systems to fend off Russia's missile attacks on the country's urban areas.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Berlin.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: For more analysis, I'm joined by Mick Ryan, retired general of the Australian Army, also author of the book, "War Transform: The Future of 21st Century Great Power, Competition and Conflict".
 
Always good to see you, Mic. Thanks for your time. 
 
I wanted to stop before we move on to Ukraine with the Moscow attack, ISIS claiming responsibility. Your thoughts about the attack, how it was executed and the ISIS claim of responsibility? 
 
MAJ. GEN. MICK RYAN, AUSTRALIAN ARMY (RET.): Good day, Michael. This is clearly a terrible attack on civilians, which is always appalling. It was clearly well blamed. And unfortunately, the Russian authorities don't appear to have taken seriously the warnings had received from U.S. intelligence agencies.
 
HOLMES: U.S. intel seem to indicate it was ISIS-K planning something. That's a group primarily operating out of Afghanistan, of course. What might that mean in terms of the group's capability, planning, targeting, particularly concerning Russia?
 
RYAN: Well, it means we can't take a terrorism problem. I think we might have done that after the withdrawal from Afghanistan. From the Russian perspective, they may use it as a rationale to perhaps an ounce further mobilization on further crack bans on internal security inside Russia itself.
 
HOLMES: Yeah. Turning to the war on Ukraine, a massive wave of Russian missiles in the last day or so, sometimes it was the biggest of the war. What's your take on Russia's strategy with that tactic? 
 
RYAN: Yeah, it's not quite the largest of the war we saw on first January, even more missiles and drones fired. But it is a significant pulse of missiles striking Ukraine. This is a continuation of the Russian approach to economic warfare and attacking power stations and distribution centers is something that off and on since October 2022.
 
HOLMES: So what are they trying to do with the targeting of power infrastructure in a strategic sense? 
 
RYAN: But there's a few different reasons for this first and foremost is to put pressure on the Zelenskyy government. It's also about terrorizing people. But as part of their economic warfare approach, it's about decreasing the confidence that foreign investors might have investing in new crime because of their three years of safety. So, there's a variety of reasons why the Russians undertake these attacks 
 
HOLMES: Ukraine and also ration rebels operating from Ukraine have taken plenty of actions lightly inside Russia, including -- well, now, there have been events in Moscow targeting of Russian oil refinery being -- a refining capabilities. Even the U.S. is not happy about that, and Ukraine rejecting the U.S. criticism.
 
What's your read on that disagreement, if we can call it that? 
 
RYAN: Well, certainly, the Russians have saved these latest attacks are revenge for the Ukrainian texts on all distribution centers at the end of the day, I've been doing this for much longer. But the Ukrainians have decided to play the Russian game and economic warfare and degrade the ability to export oil and gas until there is some resolution of the stalled bill in Congress. It's unlikely the Ukrainians are going to listen to any concerns from America on this particular issue. 
 
HOLMES: Yeah. And on that point, the House of Representatives going on recess again for another two weeks which again delays that 60 billion in promised funding. How does every delay, and the Republican blocking of aid translate to the battlefield?
 
RYAN: Well, there's already evidence that this might played a role in the withdrawal from Avdiivka that we've seen for some time now, a very acute shortage of artillery ammunition, but were also starting to see, we think shortages of interceptors for air defense networks in Ukraine, which is one of the reasons that Russians may also have pushed these missiles and drones in to have the Ukrainians run their main missile stocks. 
 
HOLMES: All right. Mick Ryan, always good to see you, Mick. Thank you so much. 
 
RYAN: Thanks, Michael.
 
HOLMES: Coming up here on the program, why there is an investigation into allegations around baseball superstar Shohei Ohtani, and his interpreter.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:47:03]
 
HOLMES: Major League Baseball is investigating allegations surrounding superstar pitcher Shohei Ohtani and his long-time translator. Reports say Ippei Mizuhara is accused of stealing millions and placing bets with a bookmaker under federal investigation. 
 
A statement from the MLB says, quote, Major League Baseball has been gathering information since we learned about the allegations involving Shohei Ohtani. And Ippei Mizuhara from the news media. Earlier today, our department of investigations began their formal process investigating the matter.
 
Meanwhile, the U.S. Department of Revenue, Internal Revenue, says that its also investigating Mizuhara along with a California resident with a history of gambling debts.
 
CNN's Hanako Montgomery has more now from Tokyo on how Ohtani's fans are reacting to the news.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Japan's dynamic duo, broken overnight. Ippei Mizuhara, the longtime interpreter and friend of baseball legend Shohei Ohtani, fired suddenly amid allegations by the athlete's lawyers that he stole millions from the star to cover gambling debts, ESPN reports.
 
In Japan, he is a living legend, but now fans must grapple with the news that their favorite athlete has been plunged head first into a murky scandal. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): It's unfortunate. I personally want them to be a team again. So, I'm really disappointed.
 
MONTGOMERY: Ohtani, a national hero at home --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): It makes me proud to be Japanese. I'm the same age as him and he inspires me to work harder. He is like the son.
 
MONTGOMERY: -- and a celebrated legend around the world. He is the first two-time unanimous MVP of Major League Baseball, but he is in a league of his own, recognized as the first two-way player in our lifetime. 
 
But, Ohtani didn't get here on his own. Mizuhara, his loyal interpreter and friend, has worked with him since 2013. The pair moved to Los Angeles six years ago when Ohtani first made the move to Major League Baseball. The two hardly ever spotted without each other, but their shared future now uncertain.
 
MONTGOMERY: In an interview with ESPN on Tuesday, Mizuhara said he didn't know his gambling was illegal, and said Ohtani agreed to pay his gambling debts, bills that swelled to at least $4.5 million. 
 
But, just a day after that interview, Mizuhara walked back much of those revelations, saying instead that Ohtani didn't know about the gambling activities or the debts, and said Ohtani didn't make the payments.
 
Best friends one day, and out the next. But, Ohtani's fans still unwaveringly faithful to the star.
 <br>[01:50:02]
 
Hanako Montgomery, CNN, Tokyo.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: CNN reached out to Ohtani's agent, the Dodgers team and the Orange County sheriff's office for further comment, but we didn't hear immediately back. We've also sought a response from Mizuhara.
 
Well a, victorious yet somber return for the world women's number two, Aryna Sabalenka. That's -- she is near the top of your screen. The Australian Open Champion dressed in black for Friday's Miami Open match against the good friend, Spain's Paula Badosa. It was Sabalenka's first match since the death of her ex-partner, former pro- ice hockey player Konstantin Koltsov. Koltsov died just days before the match in what police are calling an apparent suicide with no foul play expected. Sabalenka released a statement on Wednesday calling her ex's death an unthinkable tragedy.
 
When we come back, news of the Princess of Wales has cancer diagnosis, has people around the world sending well-wishers coming out? A closer look at the woman who one day will become queen.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, that seemed to be the cost for awhile, but she recovers and also the king as well, I hope he recovers. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hung in the air. But maybe because there royal family there will be most awareness about this, or maybe they will do more research regards to female health because there's a lot because I'm going -- I know what she's going for because I have my own stuff that go right now. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think we should be supportive of these people are going through this. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah. Respectful of what they're going to through. I mean, we've probably all been through family members that have had cancer.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're all told these days to respect everyone.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Be kind. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And be kind and (INAUDIBLE) do that for them.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Now, as people in the U.K. and around the world react to the news that the princess of Wales has shared about her cancer's diagnosis, CNN's Nick Watt gives us closer look at Princess Catherine's journey before and after the crown.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRINCESS KATE: It has been an incredibly tough couple of months for our entire family. 
 
NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A lady alone on a bench, a princess who will be queen, having to explain her health issues to the world.
 
KATE: Tests after the operation found cancer had been present. 
 
WATT: How did she get here? 
 
Catherine Elizabeth Middleton wasn't born into this.
 
She was -- well, pretty ordinary. Born in 1982 outside London. Her dad, an airline pilot, her mom, a flight attendant. 
 
Later, they launched a party supplies company. They made their money. Many among the British upper classes who tend to inherit not earn can look down upon self-made. 
 
Kate met her prince at St. Andrews University, long favored by well- to-do young Brits. William was already a global heartthrob. Apparently, Kate caught his eye modeling in a student fashion show, recreated on "The Crown".
 
2004, they were spotted skiing together in Switzerland, a couple.
 
They dated nearly seven years with one very brief break. 
 <br>[01:55:05]
 
Kate was disparagingly dubbed weighty Katie. William was off in the military. She worked briefly as a fashion buyer. 
 
William finally proposed on a trip to Kenya in 2010. 
 
WILLIAM, PRINCE OF WALES: The timing is right now and I'm very, very happy, and I'm very glad that I have done it.
 
WATT: And the wedding in 2011 was actually a fairy tale. The commoner marrying the prince and actually a love match, love was never a priority for some previous royal generations.
 
Middleton family had to create a coat of arms for the huge step state occasion. As I said, she wasn't born for this.
 
In 2012, Princess Catherine gave her first official speech.
 
PRINCESS KATE: I feel enormously proud to be part of East Anglia Children's Hospices and to see the wonderful life-changing work that you do. Thank you.
 
WATT: This has been a job ever since along with producing an heir.
 
(INAUDIBLE)
 
PRINCE WILLIAM: Very emotional.
 
PRINCESS KATE: Very emotional and it's a special time I think any parent will know what this feeling feels like. 
 
PRINCE WILLIAM: It's very special.
 
WATT: George, first of the three kids, born in 2013. Kate has suffered the scrutiny and intrusion that these days goes with the job. William has fought for her, spurred by the intrusion his mother suffered right up until her death. 
 
Kate seemingly adopting the late queen's mantra, never complain, never explain. A glaring counterpoint when the Harry and Meghan show played out in public and threatened to pull the royal family apart. 
 
Kate has continued with quiet, smiling service -- a good egg, as the Brits might say.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WATT (on camera): And from out here in California, a statement from Prince Harry and Meghan, we wish health and healing for Kate and the family and hope they are able to do so privately and in peace. 
 
Buckingham Palace has asked for privacy for Kate. They don't want any photos. We shouldn't expect any detailed updates on her health for now. Kate and her family want to deal with this on their own. And I don't think anybody could begrudge them that.
 
Nick Watt, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
HOLMES: Thanks for watching CNN NEWSROOM, spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes.
 
The news continues on CNN with Anna Coren, right after this.