Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Voters Casting Ballots in Battleground Pennsylvania; Two PA Polling Places Operational after Experiencing Delays; Voting Underway in Unprecedented Presidential Election; Voting Underway in all 50 States in Remarkably Close Election. Aired 12-12:30p ET

Aired November 05, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: It is Election Day in America. I'm Wolf Blitzer. And after a chaotic and historic presidential campaign, it all comes down to today at this hour, polls in all 50 states are now open, and already we have seen long lines at polling stations. There is certainly a lot of energy on the ground right now. Tens of millions are out and now deciding whether to send Vice President Kamala Harris or Former President Donald Trump to the White House. Erin over to you.
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: All right, Wolf and good afternoon to you and to all watching on this historic day. I'm Erin Burnett, let's show you some of these new images we have. This is Philadelphia. These are lines, this particular line stretching for blocks as our photo journalist is showing you. 
 
Harris, of course, needs a very strong turnout in Philadelphia, in the must win State of Pennsylvania. In North Carolina, let's show you some images there from that crucial battleground state. Voters telling CNN they have never seen anything like the lines they've seen today. 
 
And by the way, just something to consider this is after you could early vote for 10 days, two weeks, in some of these cases, and still this turnout, we'll see what it all portends. But just a short time ago, both Harris and Trump had a message for voters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S., (D) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We got to get it done. Today is voting day, and people need to get out and be active.
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: It's been very honored to find out that the lines are long and the conservative lines, Republican lines are very long. I hear we're doing very well.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER: And now the first poll is closing in just six hours, as for the all-important battleground states, Georgia is first. Polls there close at 07:00 p.m. Eastern 30 minutes later, polls will close in North Carolina at 08:00 p.m. Eastern. Pennsylvania, polls will close, and then at 09:00 p.m. Eastern Michigan, Wisconsin and Arizona will close finally, at 10:00 p.m. Eastern Nevada will close its polls. 
 
And of course, as we're watching all of the returns come in, we're watching specifically the two candidates race to try to cross that 270 Electoral College threshold. We have a team of reporters standing by from the crucial battleground states to the campaign headquarters, and we just showed you the very long lines in Philadelphia.
 
And I want to go to Danny Freeman. He's on the ground for us right now he's live in the battleground State of Pennsylvania. Danny, tell our viewers, what are things like where you are? 
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, I'll be honest with you, there's a lot of energy out here right now. We're in Lancaster County. It's kind of in the central part of the state right here. We're in Millersville specifically, and we're at a polling place, which is a funeral home right here. But nevertheless, people are excited to be voting. 
 
We're actually very close to a university, Millersville University, so there are a lot of students who are kind of coming out right at this immediate lunch rush, let's say -- see if maybe some of these folks might want to chat with us. Are you first time voter? Would you want to chat with us for a second? So, we're live on CNN right now. My name is Danny. What's your name? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Savannah (ph).
 
FREEMAN: Savannah? Savannah, tell me what's bringing you out here today.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is time for a change.
 
FREEMAN: What do you mean by that?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm just here for women rights and stuff like that. And just, I really really like to talk about it like in depth --
 
FREEMAN: Sure. Are you a first-time voter?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I voted in -- not a presidential. I'm a first- time presidential voter.
 
FREEMAN: Tell me, how are you feeling about voting in your first presidential election?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm a little scared, but it's exciting. I mean, it's definitely surreal, almost, to just like, be here -- you know be able to do this. It's -- I'm excited to be able to have a voice and stand up for what I believe in.
 
FREEMAN: Would you mind sharing who you're going to vote for in there?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Kamala. FREEMAN: Kamala Harris? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
FREEMAN: Did you ever expect to be casting your first vote in a presidential election at a funeral home?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. No.
 
FREEMAN: Well, thank you so much for time really. Can -- your name one more time?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Savannah. 
 
FREEMAN: Savannah, thank you so much. Nice to meet you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nice to meet you.
 
FREEMAN: So again, that's kind of some of the stuff that we're seeing out here, especially in this particular voting spot. Like I said, Wolf, because it is so close to this university. But I'll note here that right now, here in Lancaster County, this is actually the largest red state, really, in Pennsylvania, and that it's one of the -- excuse me, one of the largest red counties in Pennsylvania. 
 
It's gone for Former President Trump twice before, but we're watching it closely, because Democrats are trying to make a play at least to close that margin as much as they can here. So, seeing the results here in Lancaster County, that may be indicative of just how close the Commonwealth ultimately is when we see these results. Wolf, back to you.
 
BLITZER: All right. Danny Freeman, thank you very much, and thanks Savannah for us as well.
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
BURNETT: Yeah, certainly it's so wonderful to see when it's someone's first time voting that they can have that feeling, that feeling that is so special to Americans, but to remember that feeling of your first presidential vote. I remember it. It was all the way back in 1994. Let's go to Josh Campbell, in the swing State of Wisconsin, in the state -- in the City of Madison. So, Josh, what are you seeing?
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, you know, Erin, the energy here is strong, a steady flow of voters. I was once a precinct captain. I was a poll worker. This is really special to see the volunteers coming out and the people coming to cast their votes. I want to get straight to a voter. This is Rachel (ph). You can step on over here. She is a nurse at the Veterans Hospital. First, thank you for what you do.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
 
CAMPBELL: I have a question. I've lived in a lot of places around the country. I've never lived in a battleground state. What's that like knowing that you have this outsized impact on the future of this race?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah, I think it's it means a lot to me. I'm from Minnesota originally, so I've moved here for college, and I've been living here for a while. And I see more of a division living in a red state. But I just think it's important that everyone you know, like you educate yourself on your vote, and then you go out and you make your vote so.
 
CAMPBELL: And what issue is top of mind for your issues? What's driving you to the polls?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I feel like it's a lot of things. Reproductive rights being one, you know, I'm a young woman, so I feel like -- you know I have a younger sister. I have so many people in my life that have struggled with these issues and these topics, and I just think it's important that you educate yourself about it, and you go out there and you make your decision so, yeah.
 
CAMPBELL: Are you comfortable saying, who you're voting for? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah, I'm voting for Harris.
 
CAMPBELL: OK. Can I ask you because people have a lot of questions, especially this cycle.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
 
CAMPBELL: When you look at the two candidates, are you voting more for the person that you like, or are you voting against the person that you might not like?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Um, I obviously everyone will have their own like opinions about the issues. I mean, I tried to educate myself more. I'm not a big like -- I'm not -- I don't really support the person that the opposite candidate is, but I tried to -- you know educate myself more and not let that affect it. It kind of does, though -- you know morals are involved. So, I would say yes and no.
 
CAMPBELL: OK.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You know, I'm voting for what I believe in, but also, I'm happy that, you know, she supports, like, going forward with life, valuing others, kindness -- you know, yeah.
 
CAMPBELL: OK. Well, it's a pleasure meeting you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah.
 
CAMPBELL: Thank you for what you do.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you.
 
CAMPBELL: I come from a family of nurses, so thanks.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah. CAMPBELL: Thanks for everything. And Erin, just to tell you one last thing here about with -- Wisconsin itself, one thing we continue to hear from officials is that it is going to take time that's for many reasons chief among them. All of those early votes that were cast before Election Day, they weren't able to start counting those until today, and so officials continue to say that that look, just because it's going to take time, that doesn't mean that there's mischief at play. They got to count the votes, Erin.
 
BURNETT: Yeah. Yeah, so great to hear from those voters across the country. Josh, thank you. Wolf?
 
BLITZER: Erin, thank you. I want to bring in Phil Mattingly right now. He's over here at the Magic Wall, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, two of the key battle ground states right now give us a little sense of what's going on. 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CHIEF DOMESTIC CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So, this is the map right now. You'll notice it hasn't filled in with red or blue yet, as you know, to the top of the show, in about six hours, that's going to start to change. So, what we're looking at is what happened in 2020 if we can draw some analogs or comparisons. 
 
Let's start with where we saw Josh Campbell. Josh Campbell in Dane County. This is not a swing county; this is not a battleground county. This is a Democratic stronghold county Wolf. This is second largest county in the state. Almost 10 percent of the voting population is right here. 
 
And you look at the margin in 2020 Joe Biden winning it by almost 53 points. If you're a Democrat right now, if you're the Harris campaign, you're looking at this county and you're saying, let's bump that up. Let's bump that up. You need to do better in Dane County to offset some of Trump's strength in the more working-class white regions of the state. 
 
What will be interesting to watch and why Dane matters so much as you move over here to Milwaukee County, it's largest county in the state. It is a Democratic stronghold and a Democratic driver of votes, but this will be a sign as to whether the former president has made some inroads in more urban areas, particularly among black men. And if he does, the votes in Dane become all that much more important.
 
Let's swing over quickly to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. That's Ohio. It's a great state, by the way. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania down to where Danny Freeman was over here in Lancaster County. The reason why Lancaster is -- Lancaster is so important is to Danny's point. This is also not a battleground county. 
 
This is not Erie; this is not North Hampton. But for Donald Trump, these are the places that he actually lost ground in 2020. So, in 2016 what happened in Lancaster County? He won with 57.2 to 37.8. What happened in 2020 he still won it handily, both almost 16 points. But Joe Biden 8 away at the margins. These are the types of places that Trump needs to bump his margins back up again. And the reason why is pretty simple. We saw it in 2020 play out in
 
 vivid fashion, particularly here in Montgomery, but across the collar counties that bump out the suburban regions outside of Philadelphia, where Joe Biden was running up huge vote, winning Bucks County, winning Montgomery County by a huge amount, winning Delaware County as well, winning Chester County by a huge margin. 
 
So, for Democrats, you're looking at Philadelphia pushing out into the suburbs. You're obviously looking at Allegheny County over here, the home of Pittsburgh. 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
But for the Trump campaign, it's places like Lancaster up through this area, right here, but also outside of Pittsburgh, outside of Allegheny County, where the Trump campaign knows they're going to win those counties. But it's how much that will tell the story of the night Wolf.
 
BLITZER: Very interesting indeed. We'll be watching these states, all these battleground states, very closely. You're going to be a busy guy. Thanks very much. Erin, over to you.
 
BURNETT: All right, Wolf. Let me just -- you know that's all we want to see is that map and how this is coming in, where we're going to be looking in these hours as the polls will be closing in a few hours? We heard from President Trump just moments ago. You saw him there with Melania Trump. 
 
He was talking about the long lines he's been hearing about. And I want to go now to Broward County in Florida, another crucial one, of course, in presidential electoral politics, that's where Randi Kaye is tonight. And Randi, what are voters there telling you?
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well Erin, more than 23,000 voters have already voted here in person, here on Election Day in Broward County. About 650 at the polling place where we are in Parkland, Florida, and they've been pretty evenly split. We spoke to 18 voters, 10 for Trump, 8 for Harris, and one woman told me she's actually voting for Harris. 
 
But just a couple of weeks ago, she said she was voting for Donald Trump, and in the last couple of weeks, she's heard from his rhetoric. She did not like it. She thinks that what he's been saying has been -- has just not been, something that's in line with her views. And she doesn't like what she's hearing from him. So now she is voting for Harris. She came here today and brought her mom to vote for Harris as well. Here's what a couple of other voters here told us as well.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I voted for Harris. I'm excited to give woman a chance to be represented. I want to get back to just being able to respect each other's viewpoints and to get back to common decency.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He's amazing. I think he really does good for the economy, and he's a great president. KAYE: You're 25 years old, right?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
KAYE: And so why Trump? Why do you think he would be better for you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Um, I just don't trust Harris. There's many reasons. I don't like to get into it, but I think Donald Trump is -- he's just true. He really speaks what is on his mind. Sometimes he doesn't say the right things, but he does do the right things for the United States.
 
KAYE: Nothing he says offends you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You can't really let this world offend you, honestly, like if you let like, I watched Simpsons and Family Guy, they say everything every race, but you have to laugh. If you don't laugh, you're not going to be happy in this world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAYE: And Erin, I spoke to one Haitian man here, and he said for a long time he was pretty undecided, but then when he heard those comments that he said Donald Trump made about Haitian migrants allegedly eating people's pets in Springfield, Ohio, which we've learned from officials, is not true. 
 
That is when he made up his mind and said, no more, and he decided to vote for Kamala Harris. So, what Donald Trump has been saying seems to be resonating as well as what Kamala Harris has been saying among the voters that we've been speaking with, Erin.
 
BURNETT: Right. Yeah, absolutely -- another just to hear from that 25- year-old woman that you just interviewed. Randi, thank you for that and for sharing it so we all could hear it. But we have seen some minor issues, minor I mean, you heard Trump just say when he was giving that press conference that the voting is safe and seems to be going smoothly. 
 
Well, that's the case across the country. There have been some minor issues in Pennsylvania at the polls, though, and we are following all of that very closely. So, if there's anything you need to know, you're going to hear it here. Let's go to Paula Reid at the voting desk. And Paula what did you see there? What happened?
 
PAULA REID, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, of course, Pennsylvania one of the most critical states for both candidates. And we've already seen a few issues at polling sites this morning. Let's start in Cambria County. Here, a court has just ordered that the election sites have to stay open until 10:00 p.m. This came after a software malfunction disrupted voter's ability to scan their ballots. 
 
Now, officials say they learned about this issue this morning. They called a specialist, and they're working to resolve it. But they tell voters that all completed ballots will be accepted, secured and counted by the Board of Elections, and they urge residents to continue to vote. Now, our colleagues report some people did leave the polling site as these issues are being sorted out, but the polls in that county will now be open until 10:00 p.m.
 
Then in Allegheny County, two polling locations experienced delays after a judge of elections was late to one location and a different judge of elections never showed up to his site. But now election workers are in place, and both sites are up and running. 
 
Then if we go to Philadelphia County, the district attorney there says there have not been any election related arrests, but they are seeing behavior that is, quote, a little bit more aggressive than what we have seen in the past. It had roughly a dozen calls this morning. Erin, I've spoken with legal teams for both campaigns. These are the kinds of issues that they expected today. 
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
But even these smaller issues could result in additional legal challenges as the campaigns want to make sure that every vote is counted.
 
BURNETT: All right. Paula, thank you very much. And our special coverage of Election Day in America continues as we are all here watching the vote soon, waiting for the results. We will take you to the Harris and Trump campaign headquarters to see how they are feeling at this moment this afternoon.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLITZER: Election Day in America, less than six hours until the first poll closings in parts of Indiana and Kentucky. We have CNN Correspondents covering the Harris and Trump campaigns very, very closely. First, I want to go to CNN's Alayna Treene, she's in West Palm Beach, Florida for us. Alayna, you have some new reporting on Trump's plans for today and tonight, and how they're feeling inside the Trump campaign?
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: That's right, Wolf. We've learned that Donald Trump's campaign has been having some behind the scenes conversations about how tonight will go. And one key question, and they say they just don't know the answer to this yet, is when and if he will leave his Mar-a-Lago Resort, that is where he's going to be watching some of this election night coverage and head over to the convention center to address the press. 
 
Now, when I talked to them, they said that they recognize that the election is likely to be very close. It will not be called tonight. But they do have a sense that some critical swing states will be called tonight, and that is the question of whether or not Trump will actually go out there and talk to people reminiscent of what we saw back in 2020.
 
One source said that there have been discussions on Trump coming out to speak after some of these critical battleground states are called. Another source told me it's still a question, even if he comes out there at all to address the press. 
 
Now, one thing is, we did just see Donald Trump moments ago vote here in Palm Beach with his wife, Former First Lady, Melania Trump. A reporter asked him, do you plan to declare victory this evening? This is what Trump said. He said, quote, yeah. I mean, I'm hearing the same things that you're hearing. I'm hearing states where I'm up by a lot, but they won't -- long time. 
 
He essentially said, I don't know if something happens. I don't know what's going to happen in terms of declaring victory, but in normal times, I would go over to the convention center, let's say at 10 o'clock. Normal times, meaning he was railing against that it's not just paper ballots and in person voting, but kind of criticizing the process of mail-in voting and noting that this is going to have to take a much longer time. 
 
Now, one thing I do want to be very clear about and discussing all of this Wolf is to remember what happened in 2020 when Donald Trump went out there the morning, late into the morning, right after the election, and preemptively and falsely declared victory, despite us not knowing the election results yet, and also him ultimately not winning. 
 
That is the key question that I think a lot of people have anxiety about is whether or not he will do that this evening. But as of now, his team says unclear if that's even a plan, or even if you'll see him at all, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: All right. Alayna Treene, over at Trump Campaign Headquarters in West Palm Beach, Florida for us. Thanks very much. I want to go to Harris Campaign Headquarters right now CNN's Priscilla Alvarez is on the scene for us. Priscilla, what's the latest from the Harris Campaign Headquarters?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, what I'm being told Wolf by a Harris advisor, is that the mandate to staff is to, quote, knock until the very end. That is what they have been told, essentially, to continue this mobilizing push. Now the vice president, she's not on the campaign trail. She concluded that yesterday, crisscrossing the battleground State of Pennsylvania.
 
But she is participating in a spate of radio interviews where she is continuing to press for people to vote and also outlining her own vision, especially targeting those people who may still be on the fence as to who they're going to vote for. And in doing so, she's also previewing a little bit about how her day is going to go. 
 
She says that she has a tradition of having dinner with family on election night, so that is exactly what she plans on doing later tonight. But behind the scenes, Harris advisor certainly working around the clock to try to bring in as many votes as they can, especially working with the ground game infrastructure that they have been so bullish on over the last year. 
 
Now, of course, tonight is also a test of many strategies that they put into play over the last several weeks, which was building out their coalition. It wasn't just locking in their base, but it was also trying to reach those disaffected Republicans, those who were fatigued by foreign President Donald Trump.
 
And also using issues like reproductive rights to really galvanize voters. And over the course of the morning, they, like us, have heard from voters who have continued to cite reproductive rights, so they're hoping that that strategy of using that issue and leaning in on it could pay off for them in the end. 
 
But the Harris team has also said that they recognize it could be a lengthy process as these votes come in later tonight, they said that they are going to remain, quote, calm and confident as that happens. But certainly, they are not letting their foot off the gas as they contribute -- continue to mobilize voters who are still heading to the polls, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: All right. Priscilla Alvarez over at Harris Campaign Headquarters at Howard University in Washington, D.C. Thank you very much. Erin, over to you.
 
BURNETT: All right, Wolf. So, let's go to Rosa Flores. She's in Houston, Texas. And Rosa, you know, Texas getting a lot of attention. And you know, you've got a crucial Senate race there as well. What are voters telling you? 
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I have a voter here. This is Chuck Southerland (ph). And of course, Erin, one of the big questions in Texas is, will Republicans actually vote for Harris? Chuck -- you want me to call you Chuck, right?
 
CHUCK SOUTHERLAND, VOTER: Yes.
 
FLORES: You're a Republican.
 
SOUTHERLAND: Yes.
 
FLORES: You just voted.
 
SOUTHERLAND: Yes. 
 
FLORES: Who did you vote for?
 
SOUTHERLAND: Kamala Harris.
 
FLORES: And tell us why?
 
SOUTHERLAND: Because I cannot forget January the 6th, when that happened, it just stayed ingrained in my mind, and I just couldn't go the other way. So, and then I'm starting looking at Harris's policies.
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
Did I totally agree with the Biden Administration on things? Not really. But right now, I look at what Harris is doing. I look at what inflation is doing right now. It's looking much better now. I'm looking at my investments for the past four years, my investments have done really well. And so -- and then the housing market -- you know, I own a home, and the value of that house has gone up, so my net worth has gone up.
 
FLORES: Now you're a dentist?
 
SOUTHERLAND: Yes.
 
FLORES: And you're a father of four girls?
 
SOUTHERLAND: Yes.
 
FLORES: Did reproductive freedom as an issue was that important for you?
 
SOUTHERLAND: Being the father of four girls, definitely. And I've got four strong daughters, and they probably would just shoot me if I did not vote for their rights.
 
FLORES: Now, Erin right before I toss back to you. I want to ask Chuck, if you have other Republican friends who are doing the same thing you are.
 
SOUTHERLAND: I've got some Republican friends that are doing that, but I've got a place in the country and a place in the -- in the city and the country. It is mostly Republicans, staunch Republicans in the city. I've got it both ways, but then we have our certain group in the country that we kind of hang together, and we're all like, OK, we were Republicans, now we're Independents.
 
FLORES: And so, they might vote for Kamala Harris.
 
SOUTHERLAND: They'll vote for Kamala Harris.
 
FLORES: Wow. Chuck, thank you. Erin, back to you.
 
BURNETT: Yeah, really, really fascinating. And thanks to Chuck for being willing to share all of that so openly with everybody. I know that takes courage for anyone. Well, Former President Trump is speaking right now at his Campaign Headquarters in West Palm Beach. Let's just listen to what he's saying at this moment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: You actually, we did ladder rallies, and they're big ones. We did full rallies, as opposed to so we got in about five o'clock in the morning. We left Michigan. I think Michigan is going to be great, especially since we killed the biggest factory that ever going to auto factory that I think, anywhere at any time, which would have -- you know, destroyed them.
 
And we did that without being president. So that was a big thing, but I think Michigan is going to be good. They were all looking really good. Susie, I can't think of anything. What do you think of Susie? Would you say good? Well, we just wanted to come over. Paris, Texas is really great. And we're going to see it tonight, and hopefully they'll be able to get these expensive computers going. You know, the reason you use computers is to make time so that it's like, fast you don't use them, so that you have to come up with an answer three days later. And that's a little scary. when they say, what are they doing? 
 
You use a computer because it calculates quickly, and you use paper because you save costs, but the paper turns out to be much quicker than the computer. There's something wrong with that, so we don't like that. But there are a lot of things that are happening in our country that have to be changed, and we'll do it, and we'll do what's right for the country.
 
And I think that's why we're doing well, but let's see if we can close it out. But it would be -- I just asked about it. Wouldn't it be nice if, after spending billions of dollars that they could have a computer give an answer by like, 10 o'clock? It doesn't make sense, does it? It doesn't really make sense. It's crazy. Thank you very much. We'll see you later. Have a good day, and you're going to be watching, and they're going to be watching, make sure there's no cheating, right? Thank you, everybody.
 
BURNETT: Yeah, it's Former President speaking in West Palm Beach, where his campaign headquarters are tonight. All right, here with everyone. Governor Pawlenty obviously is making a joke there and cheating for many. Of course, it doesn't seem a joke, and it isn't a joke in the context of what happened on January 6th and last time. What are you hearing from Republicans right now about how they feel on the ground right now?
 
TIM PAWLENTY, FORMER MINNESOTA GOVERNOR: I think they're still hopeful, but I'm sensing a little pessimism this is anecdotal. Anecdote can get you in big trouble in elections and predictions and a lot of this early stuff. Doesn't mean much. People are desperate to look at a tea leave, and I do sense the bullishness on the Harris side.
 
As to President Trump's point. If you have a major population state like Florida that can get their results done by a reasonable time on election night. I don't believe his conspiracy theories, but we do need to do a better job of speeding this up, and Florida can do it and do it accurately.
 
BURNETT: Then other states can do.
 
PAWLENTY: They should. He's got a good point. What the hell excuse my language? You know, why does it have to take days? It doesn't need to.
 
BURNETT: These days hell is not really a bad word.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BURNETT: Not all gone a lot further than that. All right, are you feel -- I know. Let's just contextualize this Governor Ashley said on the town hall night when Anderson was talking to Kamala Harris.
 <br>[12:30:00]