Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Noem Pushes Back Against Book Criticism; Biden Condemns Surge in Anti-Semitism; Geoff Duncan is Interviewed about Saying He'll Vote for Biden; Stormy Daniels Testimony in the Hugh Money Trial. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired May 08, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:30:27]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHEN COLBERT, HOST, "THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT": Noem can't seem to escape the story that she killed her puppy, mostly because she won't shut up about it. Last night she went on the Fox News and was asked whether she regretted including the story in her book.
 
GOV. KRISTI NOEM (R-SD): Everybody's known that story for years. That's what most people don't realize is that in South Dakota they've used that story to attack me in my political campaigns for years. I wanted people to know the truth.
 
COLBERT: So let me get this straight, everyone who's heard this story has used it to attack you. So, you make it the centerpiece of your book?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: South Dakota Governor Kristi Noem still taking heat for those excerpts from her new memoir. And now we're getting the sense she doesn't seem so happy about it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. KRISTI NOEM (R-SD): I was President Trump -
 
STUART VARNEY, HOST, "VARNEY &amp; CO." ON FOX BUSINESS NETWORK: Did the dog story come up in your conversation with Trump?
 
NOEM: I talk to President Trump all the time -
 
VARNEY: About the dog?
 
NOEM: About a lot of things. 
 
Yes.
 
VARNEY: Did you bring up the dog with Trump?
 
NOEM: Enough, Stuart.
 
VARNEY: With Trump? Did you bring up the dog with Trump?
 
NOEM: This interview is ridiculous what you are doing right now. 
 
VARNEY: I'd say -
 
NOEM: You need to stop. It is.
 
ELIZABETH VARGAS, HOST, "ELIZABETH VARGAS REPORTS" ON NEWS NATION: Did you meet with Kim Jong-un?
 
NOEM: And some - some of them are in the book and some of them are not in the book.
 
VARGAS: Clearly, if you're taking it out of the book it's because it's untrue.
 
NOEM: Well, I've given you my answer. No, and that's not the answer. 
 
VARGAS: When you recorded your own audio book, you didn't notice this passage?
 
NOEM: I'm not going to discuss about my meetings with world leaders. 
 
VARGAS: I'm not asking you to. I'm asking you about recording the audio book. 
 
NOEM: Did you want to talk about something else today? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: OK. 
 
Matt Gorman, clearly, she has had enough of this. She's on a book tour. 
 
MATT GORMAN, FORMER SENIOR ADVISER TO TIM SCOTT'S PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN: Still talking about this book. I mean, really, its, you know, it's - one of the things was, there was a - there was a lot of - see a lot of talk around the dog. But I think among conservatives, what is really kind of opened up was the Kim Jong-un meeting, non- meeting thing. 
 
And one of the things I took note of was, she had a very tough interview on the conservative network News Max. And the host, who I know, he's a conservative, but he's not some sort of like lackey. And so he was obviously unconvinced with our answers and really pressed her on it. And it was, I think, another one of those clips. 
 
Look, there is a difference between bending the truth and not true. There's a difference between spin and not true. And I think what she simply can't explain is, where that falls in it. And it's becoming kind of clear. HUNT: Well, and, again, just remind everyone what she claims in the book. 
 
GORMAN: Yes.
 
HUNT: Versus what actually happened.
 
GORMAN: Yes. 
 
No, sorry, sorry. Yes, so - so she, in the book, in her audio book, she read that she met and essentially stared down Kim Jong-un and -
 
HUNT: The North Koreans dictator -
 
GORMAN: The North Korean dictator.
 
HUNT: Who is very reclusive and, you know, famously, yes. 
 
GORMAN: And it was a big deal.
 
HUNT: Doesn't randomly show up in the United States and meet with governors.
 
GORMAN: And it was a big deal when the president met with him.
 
HUNT: Right.
 
GORMAN: Let alone a delegation that she claims in the House. And now, after there's been some scrutiny on it, she took it out of the book, even though she read it in the audio book, and now she's kind of hiding behind this veneer of, well, I don't discuss conversation about conversations, implying there's some sort of national security confidentiality around it and not really addressing whether it actually happened. 
 
ZOLAN KANNO-YOUNGS, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: So, she'll often say that, I went to the DMV (ph), but then when somebody follows up and asks, yes, but did you meet with the leader, she will - 
 
GORMAN: Yes.
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: She will pause and say, I don't have conversations about conversations that I've had.
 
And, you're right, I mean, this goes towards - I mean these questions are pretty straightforward that she's being asked. You have to wonder, and be a little bit surprised that, did she not expect to get asked these questions by going on TV and doing all these interviews? But it's straightforward, did you have a conversation that you said you had in your book, or did you not? 
 
REP. SETH MOULTON (D-MA): And let's be clear, this isn't any old dictator. 
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: Right. MOULTON: This is a dictator who's spent an enormous amount of his country's resources building nuclear weapons, which he says are designed to incinerate our cities.
 
HUNT: Right.
 
MOULTON: Incinerate parts of America. And if you're someone who's competing to be a vice presidential candidate, you better be able to tell us whether you've simply met with this guy.
 
GORMAN: And, look, and I think one of the things is what - the reason we see folks like my old boss, Tim Scott, JD Vance, Doug Burgum do all these shows, they're really - look a part of any VP, certainly Trump's - but really any VP, you've got to be able to defend the top of the ticket and be an attack dog. You've got to be effective at it. And so, in a way, this was quite a trial balloon for her as she does this, and not really going well.
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: A little bit of an interesting choice of wording there with attack dog. 
 
GORMAN: Yes. 
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: I mean, yes, (INAUDIBLE).
 
GORMAN: Yes. That's a good point. No, no pun intended. 
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: Right. Right.
 
HUNT: Oh, poor Cricket. I'm so sad for Cricket still. 
 
I mean, Congressman, like, can you just take us inside - I mean what - you're - you're a politician. You think about how to present yourself in a book, right? That's what these books often are, right, you're selling yourself to people. I mean what would lead to the set of decision-making that we are seeing from Kristi Noem?
 
MOULTON: I don't know. I mean I've never written a book, but you would think a book would be a way to open yourself up, be a little bit more honest, tell people who you're really all about. 
 <br>[06:35:04]
 
So, the whole point is, tell the truth. Tell the truth that people not - might not be able to see behind the political facade. But then if you go behind the facade and you're making up things and you're not willing to be honest about what you've written yourself, it doesn't go so well.
 
GORMAN: The biggest testing, I think, in many times, whether it's nascent vice presidential campaigns or actual presidential campaigns are what you can control. A presidential announcement should go well. You can control almost all aspects of that. A book tour relatively should go well. You can control as much of it as you possibly can. It's when you don't - and you wake (ph) and you can't control things, that's when obviously things can turn for the worst. She can control what she writes in the book.
 
HUNT: Right. And it really underscores the sort of - that mistakes were made, shall we say?
 
GORMAN: Yes.
 
HUNT: All right, let's turn now on a more serious note to this.
 
In a speech marking Holocaust Remembrance Day, President Biden left no doubt that he stands by Israel despite tensions with Prime Minister Netanyahu over Israel's invasion of Rafah, and, of course, amid the pro-Palestinian protests roiling American college campuses. The president recalling the horror of the October 7th Hamas attack and denouncing anti-Semitism in all forms. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: To many people denying, downplaying, rationalizing, ignoring the horrors of the Holocaust. On October 7th, including Hamas' appalling use of sexual violence to torture and terrorize Jews. It's absolutely despicable, and it must stop.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: All right. 
 
Zolan, I mean, this was a significant moment for President Biden, who often, as I know you cover the White House, often uses addresses like this, or this is kind of a preferred way of going about things, but this was a serious moment. And the conversations that I was having with some more moderate Democrats ahead of time, I'm going to get the congressmen to weigh in on this in a second too, was that he needed to not both sides it was how some people argued it in that he needed to take on the left of his own party and the way in which there is anti- Semitism brewing there. 
 
What was the thinking behind the scenes in the White House about how to frame this?
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: I think those concerns from some of some of the more moderate Democrats are exactly the concerns that the White House has really been worried about leading up to this, and leading up to the president's comments also last week. 
 
You basically - look, I think it's worth reminding folks, this has been an issue that the president - and he talked about it yesterday - sort of has - it kind of traces his career, both through the Senate, but also with his upbring in Delaware. He talked about dinner table conversations with his father, talking about the significance of the Holocaust and the need to not forget it as well. 
 
I know that White House officials, after some of the criticism they were getting last week around, where is the president sort of on this issue of the rise of anti-Semitism and protests on college campuses, they were definitely paying attention in terms of the calls to have him speak out. But also the reaction to the speech shows just sort of the tricky political situation here. You know, you had some Republicans saying that it didn't go far enough. Yes. Of course, it was praised by those who have been concerned about the rise of anti- Semitic acts that are happening around the country. But you also had some on the sort of more progressive wing, far left flank, and pro- Palestine protestors saying that, you know, criticism of the Israeli government shouldn't be conflated with anti-Semitism.
 
So, it just shows how difficult this situation is politically. But that speech is, I think, exactly what the White House - what White House officials and many Democrats want to hear yesterday. 
 
HUNT: Was it what you wanted to hear, Congressman? 
 
MOULTON: Yes. I mean, I think Zolan is right, this has becomes such a polarizing issue that we're losing sight of what should be shared principles. One shared principle that everyone in this debate should acknowledge is that Hamas is evil, they have the destruction of Israel written into their charter. And what they did on October 7th is despicable. Let's start there. 
 
Then we can say, in this conflict, at the end of the day, both peoples deserve rights. They both should be free. And, frankly, neither Palestinians or Israelis are going to be safe until both are free and both have independent states. 
 
And then the third point that I think we should all agree on is, hate has no place in this discussion. And that's really what the president focused on. If we could start with those shared principles, we can have a real serious debate about what exactly Israel should or should not be doing in Gaza. But instead, so many people just retreat to their corners and have made this such a polarizing issue that they deny basic facts, and we do have this sort of both sides-ism going on, where there's - they 're not - there are no both - there are no two sides to Hamas.
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
Matt, how do you - how do you see what the president did yesterday and in - especially how it relates to - I mean, honestly, this is going to be a major issue in November.
 
GORMAN: Yes. I mean I think it's kind of finally. I mean, you're right, he had kind of a very fine people on both sides moment, you know, two weeks ago when he equivocated. And you had statements coming out -
 
HUNT: I don't know if I would go that far. 
 
GORMAN: It was -
 
HUNT: It mean he was not talking about neo-Nazis, OK. That was the -
 
GORMAN: No, you -
 <br>[06:40:00] HUNT: The very fine people on both sides in Charlottesville, there were neo-Nazis there. I don't think that President Biden went so far as that.
 
GORMAN: It - but it was - it was that sort of moment where he was equivocating. And instead of making a statement condemning, like he did yesterday, about the people who were anti-Semitic, he was trying to - but I also feel for these other groups. I think it was where he equivocated where he didn't have to. 
 
And I think the other part of this is - I mean look what we saw in the reader (ph). You have folks torching police cars, right? There's a general sense of lawlessness and where the burden in this country right now, in certain areas, with certainly college campuses, are on people not follow - on the people following the law, not the people in - people who are encamped illegally or criminally protests or making anti-Semitic threats. I think that's where those values are flipped. And I'm glad he's finally addressing it.
 
HUNT: I mean I will say, Congressman, does it seem like the - what - obviously you have the war itself and the suffering of people in Gaza as a political issue that's a problem for Democrats, but these protests that have degenerated into violence, that does seem like something that could potentially impact it negatively for Biden, no?
 
MOULTON: No, that's right. That's right. But again, like, this is pretty simple. We start with a foundation of free press, freedom of speech. You're allowed to protest in America. It's one of our foundational values. But there are certain places where if your protest goes over the line, like you're intimidating or threatening Jewish students, or a university says, we simply can't operate. You know, thousands of kids are paying to go to school and a few hundred or presenting them - 
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
MOULTON: Preventing them from actually getting an education. That's a problem. But that's pretty clear. You know, yes, you have freedom of speech, but not if you do these things. 
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: And it -
 
HUNT: Go ahead.
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: And it is worth, just on a last note, noting that on the backdrop to this speech, you do also have this situation overseas, where we now in - are having tanks going into Rafah. It looks like that military operation is more probable, and this will become more tense as that incursion goes on. There are many Arab Americans as well that are a part of the Democratic Party in the United States that are also hoping for the same kind of attention on the plight of Palestinians, you know, overseas as well. So, this is going to become even more challenging moving forward. 
 
HUNT: Yes. All right, coming up next here, Georgia's former lieutenant governor, Geoff Duncan, who, of course, has been a conservative Republican, he's going to be here to tell us why he's voting for Joe Biden in November.
 
Plus, RFK Jr. challenging Donald Trump to a debate.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:46:44]
 
HUNT: All right, 46 minutes past the hour. Here's your morning roundup. 
 
Protesters arrested this morning at George Washington University as police cleared a pro-Palestinian encampment. Some of those arrested charged with assaulting a police officer and with unlawful entry. The D.C. Police Department also confirmed at least one officer used pepper spray near the campus, but it was not at the encampment site.
 
Democratic Congressman Henry Cuellar of Texas refusing to resign after he and his wife were indicted last week on bribery and money laundering charges. Cuellar says he never accepted $600,000 in bribes in exchange for influencing U.S. policy.
 
Georgia's Republican Governor Brian Kemp signing a bill that changes the rules for challenging voter eligibility, along with a measure that would make it easier for an independent candidate to qualify for the presidential ballot. 
 
And, RFK Jr. challenging Donald Trump to a one-on-one debate. Both men will be speaking at the Libertarian Party's national convention later this month. Kennedy says he's spoken to the event organizers about adding a debate to the schedule.
 
All right, this morning, former President Donald Trump is waking up at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida after that dramatic day of testimony at his hush money trial in New York. The adult film actress, Stormy Daniels, is set to return to the stand tomorrow after describing, in lurid detail, her alleged sexual encounter with Trump in 2006. 
 
Court is not in session on Wednesdays, and this is the first time that Trump has taken the one-off day during the week to return to Florida. 
 
While he is back home, President Biden headed to battleground Wisconsin to make his economic pitch.
 
Joining me now is former Republican lieutenant governor of Georgia, and CNN political commentator, Geoff Duncan.
 
Geoff, good morning to you. Thank you so much for being here. 
 
I really want to dig into what you had said and written earlier this week, was that you would come out and vote for Joe Biden. Can you - just walk us through your decision and what you're urging others to do. GEOFF DUNCAN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes, I didn't get here lightly. I've been a lifelong Republican. In fact, when I ran for lieutenant governor in 2018, I was - I was accused of being too conservative to even be the Republican nominee. And - but I think there's a distinct difference. Being conservative or being angry are two separate things, but Donald Trump has conflated that for Republicans.
 
And look, I'm one of those Republicans that want our party back. I want to make a difference. I want to use conservative policies to make a difference all across the country. But Donald Trump's not the right person to do it for us. And the quicker we take our medicine, the better off we're going to be. And to do that, we've got to beat him. 
 
And I've tried everything, right? I've tried to support Nikki Haley. I even considered running as a third party No Labels candidate for president. But now we've just got to get Donald Trump out of our system, take our medicine. And if that takes voting for Joe Biden and trying to work with their administration to adjust their policies, to focus on the border, to focus on inflation, then that's what I'm going to do for the next seven months. 
 
HUNT: Why do you think so many people are still with Donald Trump after all this?
 
DUNCAN: Yes, look, they'll do some sort of post-mortem analysis to this. I think some of it's stardom. Some of it is confusion. Some of it is, you know, kind of a blood sport for some, just like to see the ten seconds of chaos play out on their social media. 
 <br>[06:50:06]
 
You put all that together, you get about 45 percent support. And that's what Republicans keep missing. I mean, yes, Donald Trump is ahead in some of these polls and whatnot. But as these grizzly details continue to flow out of these, you know, porn star payments and hidden documents and all the other just nasty stuff that plays out, it does not help him win the suburbs. And at the end of the day, this election is going to be all about the suburbs. Whether it be Michigan or Georgia or Florida or Wisconsin or Pennsylvania, it's going to be about the suburbs. And the suburbs is - does not want to hear any more about Donald Trump sleeping with a porn star and trying to use hush money payments to keep it quiet. 
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
Well, so let me get your reaction to what we heard at the trial yesterday. I mean, the details. Look, the judge said, we're at - he said at the top, I don't need that many details, right? And then he said, partway through the middle, like, we're getting too many details here. But, I mean, the silk or satin pajamas he was wearing, the way that, you know, he was dressed when Stormy Daniels came out of the bathroom in a t-shirt and boxers, the details I don't really want to repeat myself about what played out in the aftermath of that, I mean, what was going through your mind as you heard that and what was going through your mind? DUNCAN: Well, other than wanting to vomit. Yes, look, you can tell a lot about a person, how they act in private, right? And just watching this unpack for Donald Trump, how he conducted himself behind the scenes in his personal life, whether it be is personal finance, whether it be his personal relationships, whether it be inappropriate relationships, that tells me what somebody's going to do in a real job. And Donald Trump's not prepared to be an authentic leader. 
 
I got - I - you know, I got tricked into it. I voted for him in 2016. I voted for him in 2020, begrudgingly. And I made a mistake both times. I should have found somebody other than him to put on the ballot. But we did, and we learn from our mistakes. 
 
But, look, this does not play out well for Donald Trump. He is not prepared to lead. And think about this, if you're a serious-minded person that genuinely is concerned about the border, genuinely concerned about inflation, Donald Trump's not your guy. He's a fake Republican. We spent years listening to this talk about building the wall. What he built was a 20-mile-wide selfie station for Republican governors to show up at, take pictures at. But he didn't actually build a wall. 
 
We talked about inflation. He spent $8 trillion of additional debt just to do what? Just to get us in debt. Just to - just to pay off, you know, the American public to try to get votes. It's a dangerous proposition to think Donald Trump is a real Republican for us.
 
HUNT: What do you say to people who say, I mean, and I think that's sort of the big distinction in terms of your - your kind new position here is that you do say you are going to vote for Biden. Because, I mean, look, I've talked to plenty of Republicans who are anti-Trump but who will, you know, write in someone else. They'll write in another Republican candidate. They'll write in, you know, I - some people, you know, they'll - they'll pick their favorite, you know, Republican of the moment, or their friend in Congress to vote for. You are saying, vote for Biden. 
 
Do think that - like - like, how do you get over the hurdle with your friends and neighbors about that particular piece of it?
 
DUNCAN: Yes, look, I'm voting for Joe Biden because I want to beat Donald Trump, right? Not voting for somebody or writing somebody else's name in does not do what we need to get done, and that's to beat Donald Trump. 
 
And, yes, it's intense. I mean just - you know, go look at my social media. Go look at the names that they call my family. Go - you know, have the conversations around my kitchen table with folks being violent, visceral around. I mean, look, this - this - this feels, you know, un-American for somebody to attack somebody just because of who they're going to vote for. I should never do that as a Republican. Somebody should never do that as a Democrat. But that's the spot we're in. Donald Trump has confused and hijacked this Republican Party, or at least an element of it, to just create so - you know, chaos and hatred and visceral. It's not - it's not fair, but it is what it is, and I'm willing to stand up and do what I need to do to get this party back in - back in place where it needs to be. And I think it's going to take a number of bold, you know, courageous leaders to step up and do it. 
 
I call on other folks of influence. I call on Republican governors to stop trying to tow the party line and just say what needs to be said to save your personal politics. Stand up and do what needs to be done. Defeat Donald Trump. Send him back to Mar-a-Lago forever, not just for the weekend, but forever because he's absolutely dangerous and he's destroyed our Republican Party from start to finish.
 
HUNT: Wow. 
 
Lieutenant Governor, would you speak at the Democratic Convention if they asked you to? 
 
DUNCAN: I haven't even entertain the idea. I'm sitting here focused on trying to beat Donald Trump. I'm trying to focus on trying to win Republican majorities in the Congress. Look, I encouraged folks to wake up to the brutal realities that Donald Trump has absolutely bankrupted the Republican Party.
 
HUNT: All right, Geoff Duncan for us this morning. 
 <br>[06:55:01]
 
Geoff, thank you. I really appreciate it. I hope to see you next time you're up in D.C.
 
DUNCAN: Thanks, Kasie.
 
HUNT: All right, let's turn back now to Stormy Daniels' testimony, which we were discussing there, in Donald Trump's hush money trial yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHEN COLBERT, HOST, "THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT": It was an historic day in the annals of American law because this morning Stormy Daniels took the stand to do what she does best, and that's spank Donald Trump. 
 
JIMMY KIMMEL, HOST, "JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE": Stormy testified for three hours and 44 minutes today. Her testimony got off to an awkward start. The bailiffs swore her in on a rolled-up "Forbes" magazine.
 
SETH MEYERS, HOST, "LATE NIGHT WITH SETH MEYERS": Adult film star Stormy Daniels testified today in former President Trump's criminal hush money trial. So, Trump technically slept with her again. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: The former president's legal team is trying to convince jurors that the adult film star had a vendetta against Trump and was trying to extort him. Trump's lawyer asked her, "am I correct that you hate President Trump?" "Yes," Daniels replied. The lawyer followed up, "you want him to go to jail, right?" Daniels replied, "if he is found guilty, absolutely."
 
After court, Trump, yesterday, aired his now familiar grievances.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: In the meantime, I'm stuck. I'm here instead of being in Georgia, instead of being in New Hampshire, instead of being in Wisconsin, and all the different states that we wanted to be in, we're not able to be there because we're stuck in this trial.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: And court resumes tomorrow 
 
Matt Gorman, it does seem as though on the - and this, again, she's in the middle of cross-examination. They did get her to acknowledge she said that she does hate Trump. What impact do you think that has? 
 
GORMAN: Again, I think it goes to that point at the top I made where if, the more we talk about, not the business records aspect of the case, which is that with the actual crux of it is, and more about this kind of titillating, sexual aspect of it, and more we kind of get into the politics of it, it does - could possibly make him into a martyr, which certainly Donald Trump feels comfortable playing that role. And it could be advantageous for him politically. 
 
KANNO-YOUNGS: You also saw the judge get pretty frustrated about it yesterday, too. You were mentioning this in your interview with Geoff. But some of these, I mean, additional details, while obviously we're going to talk about them, they captured the attention of those in the courtroom and the public, the trial is about sort of the money, right? It's about whether he falsified these records. It's about the payment. And, you know, you saw the judge, usually a stoic judge in this courtroom, really start to get frustrated around what he seemed to describe as additional detail outside of the scope here.
 
So, I would watch that going forward too.
 
And there is a question as well of, what impact will that have as well on the jury to hearing all those additional details and seeing the frustration of the judge in this case. 
 
HUNT: Yes. 
 
Congressman, when you talk to the women in your life, what do they think of this? 
 
MOULTON: I mean, this is just so pathetic. I mean - I mean how - how do people continue - how do colleagues of mine continued defending this guy? You know, what we just saw from the lieutenant governor of Georgia is actual political courage because there is a choice in this election. And you may not like the choice, but it is a choice between Joe Biden and Donald Trump. And let's put the legal details aside. You're seeing Donald Trump's character on display here. What the lieutenant governor said to you publicly on CNN this morning
 
 is what a lot of Republicans say about Trump in private. They just don't have the courage to come out and say, yes, we need to make the right choice here. We need to elect Joe Biden.
 
HUNT: Final thought, Matt?
 
GORMAN: I thought it was interesting, though, he went after Trump, not on stuff that happened after 2020, but on the border and immigration and was seemingly kind of siding with Biden on those things. I've never heard that among a Republican kind of voting for Trump before. Essentially saying, it was ineffective. Where you - you heard the argument -
 
HUNT: Well, some of the Republicans criticized Trump for that during the primary campaign.
 
GORMAN: A little bit, but it -
 
HUNT: That he didn't build - that he didn't build the law.
 
GORMAN: True, but to Congressman Moulton's point, right, it's a choice between Biden and Trump. The record is - is stark. And so that was the first time I've heard, not a democracy argument, nothing like that, but more of an immigration and others argument. 
 
MOULTON: Yes.
 
HUNT: All right, well, can we finish - we'll be having more conversations about Stormy Daniels here in the future.
 
So for today, I will leave you with this.
 
(VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Get ready for a trillion of these guys to take over the U.S. It is the - one of the largest arrivals of periodical cicada's in centuries. But it is this social media posts from DuPage Forest Preserve that's getting a lot of love and attention after its low tech informational video and cicada reenactment was released.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The males will go - will crawl up to the tops of the trees and start singing to attract mates. If they want to show that a male is, you know, worthy on her, she will flick her wings at him and they will mate.
 <br>[07:00:05]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Say, girl, if I was a fruit fly, I'd land on you first.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Oh God. Comments ranged from, wasn't expecting a cicada rom (ph) com (ph) today, to, are those actors or real cicadas because I can't tell. 
 
Even the president isn't immune from these bugs. Oh, dear. 
 
All right, on that note, thanks to our panel, thanks to you for joining us. Don't go anywhere. I'm Kasie Haunt. But CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)