Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Usha Vance Defends Husband's Childless Cat Ladies Comment; New Prime Minister Starmer Vows to Quell Riots with Army of Police; Google Loses U.S. Lawsuit Over Search Engine Dominance; Brazil's Rebeca Andrade Wins Olympic Gold in Women's Floor Exercise. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired August 06, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
HASAN ALHASAN, SENIOR FELLOW FOR MIDDLE EAST POLICY AT INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES: Also a risk of catastrophic success, where Iran proves too successful at penetrating Israel's and other Western air and missile defenses and landing too many casualties and thereby prompting an all out war. 
 
The other chance of miscalculation is on the part of Iran's groups and allies in the region where an attack, for example, on Iraq base, like the attack we saw last night could lead to the deaths of U.S. troops. Again, dragging the U.S. into the conflict.
 
Again, high risk brazen Israeli attacks and assassinations like the one we saw back in April on the Iranian consulate or against Hamas's political leader in Tehran. That obviously also raises the risk of the spiraling out of control. So there are a very large number of risks here on the table. The chance of miscalculation always exists in cases such as these.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Dr. Hasan Alhasan, thank you so much for your insights today. Appreciate it. 
 
Now, after weeks of violent protests, Bangladesh prepares to dissolve its parliament and form a new government.
 
What student demonstrators want to see for the next group of leaders just ahead on CNN.
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: And Donald Trump's running mate is facing huge backlash after saying, quote, childless cat ladies shouldn't be running the country. Coming up, why his wife says people are taking it all too seriously.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:35:10]
 
MACFARLANE: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. Here are today's top stories. 
 
U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris is expected to appear with her running mate at a rally in Philadelphia later today. We're still waiting to find out who it is. But multiple sources tell CNN Harris focus on two Democratic governors in the final hours of her search. Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania and Tim Walz of Minnesota.
 
Financial markets in the U.S. are on track for a positive start when trading gets underway later today. The Dow, Nasdaq and S&amp;P 500 are hoping to recover from their worst percentage drop in nearly two years. 
 
And New York and Philadelphia can expect heavy rainfall throughout the day thanks to tropical storm Debby. In fact, a flood watch is now in effect for both northeast cities through Wednesday morning.
 
FOSTER: Well, Donald Trump's vice presidential pick, J.D. Vance, has a wife and she is defending her husband after outrage in the U.S. over his childless cat lady's comment. Usha Vance is making it clear that she's firmly in her husband's corner. Tom Foreman reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
USHA VANCE, WIFE OF SEN. J.D. VANCE: The reality is, he made a quip in service of making a point that he wanted to make.
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Usha Vance is on the trail and on defense for her husband J.D., the Republican vice presidential nominee, under sharp fire for in 2021, calling Democratic leaders --
 
SEN. J.D. VANCE (R-OH), VICE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: A bunch of childless cat ladies who are miserable at their own lives and the choices that they've made, and so they want to make the rest of the country miserable, too.
 
U. VANCE: What he was really saying is that it can be really hard to be a parent in this country, and sometimes our policies are designed in a way that make it even harder.
 
FOREMAN (voice-over): Team Trump has been eager for Usha to speak up for the Republican ticket and share her story ever since her husbands stumbled out of the gate. Born to Indian Hindu parents in California, Usha studied law at Yale, clerked for Supreme Court justices, and met J.D. who wrote in his memoir, after a single date, I told her that I was in love.
 
They married, started a family with three kids, and even though Usha was once a registered Democrat, she is now firmly on message for the Republicans.
 
U. VANCE: The J.D. I knew then is the same J.D. you see today, except for that beard.
 
FOREMAN (voice-over): It's been rough as e-mails have emerged from years ago of J.D. saying, I hate the police, I hate Trump and what he represents. I really see the racially offensive views of Trumps supporters.
 
And old friends have questioned the couple's integrity. SOFIA NELSON, J.D. VANCE'S FORMER YALE CLASSMATE AND FRIEND: Well, I don't think anyone knows what J.D. or Usha believe because they have literally changed their principles and every imaginable issue.
 
SEN. VANCE: I love you. I wouldn't be here without you and I will never forget where I came from.
 
FOREMAN (voice-over): Through it all, Usha Vance has dug in for her husband, for Donald Trump, and for whatever that may bring.
 
U. VANCE: If I didn't feel that the ticket, you know, the Trump-Vance ticket was able to do some real good for the country, then I wouldn't be here supporting him. And J.D. wouldn't have done this.
 
FOREMAN: Her job for the next few months could be a real tightrope, because while it is clear the campaign wants her to help walk back things like that cat lady matter, it is also clear that some other parts of the Trump base love that sort of thing and just want to hear more of the same. 
 
Tom Foreman, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Now, here in the U.K., Prime Minister Keir Starmer is vowing to end the riots sweeping the country with what he calls a standing army of police ready to bring violent protesters to justice. Facing his first major crisis since taking office, Mr. Starmer chaired his first emergency response meeting known as Cobra on Monday.
 
FOSTER: He says far-right agitators have seized upon the deadly stabbing of three young girls in Southport, England, last week, using that tragedy to spread anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim disinformation. 
 
Salma's been following this. I mean, he's been saying for a few days they're going to come down hard, they're going to stop this happening, but every night there's more, and they're spreading to different cities. I'm not saying they're spreading widely, they're quite isolated, but they're spreading geographically.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: They are spreading, and I think it is interesting to see how well organized they are, right? Multiple town cities, multiple centers. We've seen mosques attacked, we've seen Muslim communities in the crossfire, we've seen police officers injured, and Keir Starmer says, I have no tolerance for this.
 
I want you to take a listen to how he described it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: We've seen Muslim communities targeted. Attacks on mosques. Other minority communities singled out. Nazi salutes in the street. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
Attacks on the police. Wanton violence alongside racist rhetoric.
 
So no, I won't shy away from calling it what it is. Far-right thuggery.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ: So what's the prime minister's plan? Well, he's looking at potentially expanding the hours for the court system to prosecute people as quickly as possible. He's vowed to the country he's going to find every single individual involved.
 
There's 370 people arrested. They say that number will go up. They have also found extra prison places in order to house or imprison people who have violated rules in this.
 
Does this silence the violence? Does this quell the violence? It might for now, but we have to point to social media, where the misinformation is spreading and the government has no control.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, and you mentioned, you know, this is very organized. Social media has a large part to play in that. And we know that the prime minister has hit back at comments from Elon Musk in the last 24 hours.
 
It seems like they are taking very seriously the act of trying to bring social media to heel. But is that even possible? We've seen this in so many different scenarios that that just isn't the case.
 
ABDELAZIZ: I mean, what does it say to you that the head of X, Elon Musk himself, is fanning the flames? Is himself engaging in a tit-for- tat back and forth with the British prime minister while he's trying to stop violence on the streets?
 
FOSTER: He's saying it's a civil war.
 
ABDELAZIZ: He was saying it's inevitable for the U.K. to enter a civil war. And he went on to say, with Keir Starmer's response, went on to say, shouldn't you take care of all communities with an asterisk mark around all communities? Again, this stokes the flames of this fury. This makes that hate spread more quickly. It is not just Elon Musk. 
 
So, yes, Keir Starmer can put more police on the streets. He can clamp down on the violence. He can get a hold of what's happening on the streets of Britain, but he's not going to get a hold of what happens online without those social media companies agreeing and stepping in. And it's very difficult to imagine that taking place when, again, Elon Musk is one of those fanning the flames.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, big test for the prime minister, isn't it? First month in office, Salma. Thank you.
 
Now, Bangladesh is moving towards a new interim government and Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus is now planning to return to the country to lead it. That's according to a source with the Yunus Centre, the think tank which bears his name. FOSTER: Yes, this follows the ousting of the long-time prime minister, Sheikh Hasina, who stepped down on Monday after weeks of deadly anti- government protests. The country's president has since announced the release of detained protesters and opposition leaders. Student protest leaders say their goal is now to abolish what they call fascist systems with the people of Bangladesh, not the military government deciding the way forward.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUHAMMAD ISLAM, ORGANIZER, STUDENTS AGAINST DISCRIMINATION (through translator): We have given our blood, we have been martyred. Our vision of forming a new Bangladesh will now have to be realized.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Well, the president has urged everyone to come together in communal harmony in the wake of the protests, but he also said anyone involved in violent acts would be tried under neutral investigations.
 
FOSTER: Now, for decades, Google has dominated the Internet search market, now handling about 90 percent of the world's online searches. But that dominance has been dealt a serious blow in a U.S. district court because it ruled on Monday that Google has violated antitrust laws, acting as a monopoly to stifle competition. The landmark ruling is a stinging rebuke and could reshape how millions of Americans get their information online.
 
MACFARLANE: Google has spent tens of billions of dollars on exclusive contracts to make itself the world's default search provider. 
 
U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland hailed the ruling, saying quote: This victory against Google is a historic win for the American people. No company, no matter how large or influential, is above the law.
 
No comment yet from Google, which is expected to appeal any penalties it may face.
 
FOSTER: Now, a new day of Olympic competition underway. We'll take you live to Paris next.
 
MACFARLANE: Plus, Banksy strikes again. The mysterious street artist is taking credit for this goat that suddenly appeared in London. Details on that ahead.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Another day of Olympic drama unfolding in Paris. It comes after four different world records were shattered on Monday.
 
MACFARLANE: Today's schedule will see 15 medal events. Those include finals in the women's skateboarding and athletics and the team sprint final in the men's track cycling. Here to discuss all of that is Amanda Davies from Paris. But first, Amanda, just reflecting on yesterday, we talk a lot, don't we, about the most iconic images of the Games every day. There's a new contender. But I think the women's floor gymnastics image of yesterday definitely takes some beating.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yes, very much. I mean, what are we on? We're on day 11. Yesterday was day 10. And for all the other windsurfing in Tahiti and Celine Dion on the Eiffel Tower, yesterday is the image that is being talked about as the most iconic photo of Paris 2024 so far. I'm dubbing them the ABC.
 
Rebeca Andrade, Simone Biles and Jordan Chiles. Not only the first all-black Olympic gymnastics podium, but a true show of love, support and respect between the trio. They're all game-changers in their own right, with Biles and Chiles bowing down to celebrate Brazil's Andrade as she celebrated her first Olympic gold at this, her third Games, after coming back from not one, not two, but three ACL tears. And she won. She took the victory in that floor competition. It is really women supporting women in the best possible way.
 
Biles, though, signing off here in Paris with three goals and a silver overall. What she's described as more than her wildest dreams. 
 
And speaking of iconic pictures, a fair few produced 10,000 miles away from here in the French territory of Tahiti, venue of the surfing competition. You might have missed while you were sleeping that Team USA's Caroline Marks took the gold, the 22-year-old World Surf League champion, upgrading her fourth-place finish from Tokyo in the best possible way. 
 
Or maybe we should be talking about the best possible way, the way that Mondo Duplantis did it in the pole vault. The world champion successfully defending his gold from Tokyo by setting a new world record. The 24-year-old just keeps on rewriting the record books. He's raised the record six centimeters in the last four and a half years since he first broke it. And to put that in context, it previously took 23 years to move it that distance.
 
But he joined us here on the rooftop a short while ago. It's fair to say he's enjoying the celebratory party. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MONDO DUPLANTIS, POLE VAULT GOLD MEDALIST: When I was just a kid jumping in my backyard, I feel like I always visualized the moment of world record height Olympic final. And it's just me against the bar. And then it's like it's the moment and it's actually there and it feels like I've prepared for this for my whole entire life.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
So I feel like I have this feeling of, like, peace and confidence that is, you know, yes, hard to explain really. But for it to work out the way that it did, it's just, like, unbelievable really.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) DAVIES: You can tell what last night and the party has taken out of him. He said he's got nothing left to give. He was really struggling with his voice.
 
But I hope you noted there was only one glass of champagne on that table, not two. 
 
MACFARLANE: Very much is.
 
FOSTER: Your job isn't over yet.
 
MACFARLANE: We spotted it. Glass of champagne on the table. Love it.
 
FOSTER: More professional as ever.
 
MACFARLANE: Amanda, thanks so much there, live from Paris. 
 
Now, the spirit of competition isn't limited to the Olympics. Ahead, some four-legged athletes hit the waves off California for a good cause.
 
FOSTER: Does he need sunglasses?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
[Speaker 12] CHAPPELL ROAN, POP MUSIC SINGER: H-O-T-T-O-G-O H-O-T-T-O-G-O 
 
 You can take me high to go H-O-T-T-O-G-O 
 
 You can take me high to go 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:55:04]
 
MACFARLANE: One of the biggest rising stars in pop music there, Chappell Roan. She was truly hot to go last week in Chicago where her performance drew record crowds at Lollapalooza.
 
FOSTER: The festival posted this picture online of the massive crowds. Look at it. A representative tells CNN it was their biggest daytime set they've ever seen.
 
MACFARLANE: The singer was originally supposed to play on a smaller stage but demand was so great she was moved to the main stage.
 
FOSTER: Now, a new work by the anonymous street artist Banksy has surfaced here in London. This mural showing a mountain goat on a ledge with falling rocks appeared in Richmond in London. It was on Monday.
 
MACFARLANE: What does it mean? What does it mean? The artist posted the picture of it on Instagram, thus confirming it as a Banksy. But there's no caption to the post, leaving people to interpret the artwork however they see it. FOSTER: I think we should try and interpret it. So the thing with Banksy, you've got to sort of say what you see and it's a goat. It's crumbling, isn't it, that pillar?
 
MACFARLANE: Peering over the precipice.
 
FOSTER: And crucially, what's on the bottom right? CCTV camera.
 
MACFARLANE: Ah.
 
FOSTER: So it's either him saying he's a goat, which I don't imagine he'd say, or it's something saying the world is crumbling and we're watching it crumble.
 
MACFARLANE: Oh, I like it. And, you know, he's a social commentator, right?
 
FOSTER: Yes.
 
MACFARLANE: So I imagine that probably would have been the intention.
 
FOSTER: I have no idea, by the way. I'm literally just making that up as we go along.
 
MACFARLANE: No, I know, but this is the beauty of Banksy, isn't it?
 
FOSTER: Yes.
 
MACFARLANE: This is what he does.
 
FOSTER: Gets us talking.
 
MACFARLANE: I know. This one is in Richmond.
 
FOSTER: Yes.
 
MACFARLANE: No, it's not your neck of the woods, is it?
 
FOSTER: No.
 
MACFARLANE: Anyway, I'll swing by Richmond. Finally -- oh, I love these stories.
 
It's the dog days of summer. Yes, it is. And these pooches are celebrating. Dozens of pups hit the waves at the World Dog Surfing Championships in California.
 
FOSTER: I have a different view. I think it's ridiculous.
 
MACFARLANE: I love it. No, I love it.
 
FOSTER: Contestants, judge. 
 
MACFARLANE: You've got three dogs. 
 
FOSTER: I know. MACFARLANE: I love this content. 
 
FOSTER: I think they would hate me making them do that. That one's got a shark fin. I saw one with glasses earlier.
 
MACFARLANE: He does look pretty miserable.
 
FOSTER: So, is a -- there is a judging process, would you believe, and it's based on the length of their ride, their technique and the size of the wave.
 
MACFARLANE: Give them all tens. I love it. I'd be there in a heartbeat with my dog.
 
That's it for us. Thanks for joining us. The Dog Channel.
 
FOSTER: I'm Max Foster. She's Christina Macfarlane. CNN "THIS MORNING" --
 
MACFARLANE: CNN "THIS MORNING."
 
MACFARLANE: -- is up next.
 
FOSTER: It's up next.
 <br>[05:00:00]