Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Israel Vows Response to Iran's Attack; Trump in Court for Day Two of Jury Selection; Olympic Flame Begins Its Journey to Paris; Process of Finding 12 Jurors and 6 Alternates in Trump's Hush Money Case Expected to Take Up to Two Weeks; Supreme Court to Hear Oral Arguments Next Week Over Presidential Immunity; Sydney Police Say Knife Attack in a Church Was a Terrorist Act; China's GDP Growth Quickens to 5.3 percent in Q1 2024; Copenhagen's Old Stock Exchange Building Goes Up in Flames. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired April 16, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:00:25]
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR OF "CNN NEWSROOM": Hello and welcome to our viewers from all around the world. I'm Max Foster. This is "CNN Newsroom" just ahead. Israeli officials say they are determined to respond to Iran's attack. But how and when remains -- remain major questions. We are live in Israel and Beirut to help answer them for you. Plus, in a few moments, Donald Trump is expected to leave Trump Tower for a second day of jury selection in his historic criminal trial. We will have full coverage for you this hour. And an epic journey to Paris begins, the Olympic torch is lit in the ancient home of the games.
 
Well, Israel is vowing to respond to the first ever direct Iranian attack on its territory, as governments around the world urge restraint and caution. Israel's war cabinet is meeting again, right now, to weigh its options. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is urging the world to stand united against what he calls Iranian aggression. Iran launched some 300 drones and missiles at Israel -- at Israel over the weekend in retaliation for the bombing of Tehran's consulate in Syria two weeks ago. The Chief of Staff of the IDF says, Israel's retaliation is only a matter of time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HERZI HALEVI, CHIEF OF THE GENERAL STAFF OF ISRAEL: We are closely assessing the situation. We remain at our highest level of readiness. Iran will face the consequences for its actions. We will choose our response accordingly. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Meanwhile, Iran's president warms any action against Iranian interests would be met with a "severe, extensive, and painful response." Ebrahim Raisi says the weekend attack on Israel was an act of legitimate defense.
 
Meanwhile, the Gaza ceasefire and hostage release talks appear to be stalled once again, and Israeli source close to the negotiations tells CNN that Hamas is now offering to release fewer than 20 hostages. In the first phase of a proposed deal, Israel and the U.S. had been expecting 40. And a U.S. official says, Hamas is making unreasonable demands and is now asking Israel to release more Palestinian prisoners. 
 
Nic Robinson joins us with the latest from Jerusalem. Nic, the war cabinet currently meeting and we have heard, haven't we, that they want to find some sort of response to the Iranian attack quickly.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: They do. Certainly, there was that pressure over the weekend, Sunday night, as it was Sunday night, Israel time, as it became clear that Iran had already got weapons in the air. Those slow moving drones where under several hour-long journey to Israel, and there was a push inside the war cabinet to respond. Then the prime minister, we understand, pushed back, but the deliberation goes on two-and-a-half hours into the meeting today.
 
This is the fifth war cabinet since Iran's strike. The intent to respond, that is clear, we understand that. The question we understand that is being discussed is precisely how to respond and what the scope and scale of that could be. I think one of the interesting things we have learned in over the past 24 hours is from the U.N.'s nuclear chief, the IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi, who said that his inspectors in Iran who inspect nuclear facilities there were told over the weekend that, on Sunday, all nuclear facilities in Iran would be closed for security reasons, which gives the understanding that Iran also thought that there could have been a very quick response coming from Israel and that it might have targeted their nuclear facilities.
 
Why? Because that's something Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been long telling the international community that there needs to be action, has been at odds with the United States, certainly Democrat presidents for well over a decade on that issue. But, where does that leave us today? It does seem to leave the Iranians considering the possibility of a far-reaching strike from Israel. We've seen Israel very capable of doing that. 1981 hitting the Osirak nuclear reactor in Iraq; 2007, hitting a nuclear reactor in Syria that had been purchased from North Korea, both of those were word deep strikes, covert, more obviously huge secrets, even in the minutes before and immediately after they were taking place. In fact, it took more than a decade before Israel actually admitted to that strike in Syria in 2007.
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
ROBERTSON: So, the secrecy that's going on around what the war cabinet will do perhaps is not surprising. There is I think a diplomatic component to what Israel -- Israeli officials are trying to do here. They're aware that there is this broader international support at the moment over Iran strike, that there is criticism of Iran internationally, and there is hope that they can perhaps build on that to put greater sanctions on Iran.
 
But I think perhaps what we heard last night from the Army Chief of Staff telling troops at an air base was, look, we are looking forward. We are considering our next steps and there will be a response, and I think that is the expectation here that Israel will respond with force in some way, potentially to avoid civilian casualties. There may be a diplomatic component. But, as for the situation right now, the fact that Israeli schools are all open and operating and there are no controls over large gatherings of people tells you, at the moment, Israel is not expecting anything to come (inaudible) from Iran. They can turn that situation around very quickly.
 
I don't think -- if the war cabinet decides action, I don't think they're going to come out of the cabinet and tell us what it's going to be. Max?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: OK. Nic, thank you. Iran's attack on Israel has set off a flurry of diplomatic activity across Europe and the Middle East, so all aimed at holding (ph) off a wider conflict. On Monday, Italy's prime minister spoke on the phone with Jordan's King Abdullah. Italy currently holds the presidency of the G7, which held an emergency meeting on Sunday. Giorgia Meloni stressed to the king that Italy condemned the attack, the two also discussed the importance of ending the crisis in Gaza, where Jordan has had a leading role in providing humanitarian aid.
 
Let's bring in Ben Wedeman with a look at the regional diplomatic efforts because Jordan particularly vocal in its concern about all of this escalating, but you do wonder when you hear Nic there, how much diplomacy will play into the decision made by the war cabinet in Israel.
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, you have to question how much Jordan's situation is going to figure into those Israeli discussions. Now, because Jordan is in a very, very difficult situation. On the one hand, it has a very large population, a large percentage of its population that traces its roots back to historic Palestine. And we've seen particularly at the beginning of the war in Gaza, but also recently, massive protests either outside the Israeli embassy or the American embassy, really strong condemnation of the war in Gaza.
 
And of course, over the weekend, Jordan did shoot down some of the Iranian drones that entered Jordanian aerospace. And of course, the Jordanian government is saying that they were doing it simply to defend Jordan. But the criticism being leveled by many Jordanians against the government is that they're doing far more to defend Israel than they are to defend the people of Gaza.
 
Now, of course, Jordan has led the way in having airdrops of humanitarian goods into Gaza. But in terms of actually doing something more concrete to put pressure on the Israelis to stop their war in Gaza beyond talk, they haven't been able to do much. So I think when Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni spoke with King Abdullah, it was really a means to reassure Jordan that the West, the G7, the United States, Europe has Jordan's back. But the monarchy has to keep an eye on the street where opinion isn't necessarily so positive when it comes to Jordan's role in stopping those Iranian drones over the weekend. Max? FOSTER: Ben, obviously worked in that region for such a long time, America saying it won't support a counter attack from Israel towards Iran. It would be unprecedented, wouldn't it, if Iran went ahead without American support?
 
WEDEMAN: You mean if Israel were to go ahead with American support, yes, yes, yes. I mean, it would and I think the Americans have made it clear, they don't want Israel to do this. They're telling the Israelis, look, you had unprecedented support -- hate to reuse that word over and over again -- for Israel from not only its western allies, but Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the UAE. They are telling them don't risk losing that support by basically starting a back-and-forth between Iran and Israel that could easily go out of control.
 
FOSTER: OK. Ben Wedeman, thank you so much for joining us from Beirut.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
FOSTER: Iran has said all along that its aerial assault on Israel was perfectly legitimate. Tehran called it a necessary and proportionate response to what it considers enemy aggression. And if Israel crosses Iran's so-called red lines, Iran's leaders warn the next assault will be even more severe. CNN's Fred Pleitgen has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Iranian combat drones fired into the night sky. This new video shown on Iran's state media. Part of the country's massive aerial attack for the first time targeting Israeli territory. Hundreds of drones, cruise missiles, and ballistic missiles, and yet Iran calls this measured action and vows things could get much worse for the Israelis.
 
NASSER KANAANI, IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): We have carried out this action in the framework of deterrence. If another action is taken by Israel, our actions will be more serious.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): On the streets of Tehran, some hardliners celebrated with fireworks, calling for even harsher action even the destruction of Israel.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We hope this attack continues to the point that Israel is destroyed. With this attack, we can have some of that strong revenge.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): The punishment is for the bombing of a building in their embassy compound in Damascus, killing several top Revolutionary Guard Commanders.
 
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, a rifle by his side, calling for retribution during a speech one day before the strikes. And the Commander of the Revolutionary Guard saying, from now on, they will hit Israel every time it strikes their forces, a strategic shift. HOSSEIN SALAMI, ISLAMIC REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS (through translator): From now on, if the Zionist regime attacks our interests, our properties, our personalities, and our citizens, we will retaliate against them from the territory of the Islamic republic of Iran.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): With the help of the U.S. and its allies, the Israelis were able to take out nearly all of the drones and missiles the Iranians fired at them. But Israeli strikes on targets inside Iran, like the country's nuclear facilities as some U.S. hardliners have called for would be a major challenge. And Iran already warning the U.S.' assets in the Middle East would also become a target if America helps Israel attack Iran.
 
MOHAMMAD BAGHERI, CHIEF OF STAFF, IRANIAN ARMED FORCES: The American bases' personnel and facilities will not have security in the region. And we see America as an aggressor and will deal with them as well.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Berlin.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Up next to the streets of New York, where the first-ever criminal trial of a former U.S. president has begun. We'll check in on the difficult task of seating a jury when we come back. Then, a severe and painful response, Iran is warning Israel against taking action as Israel makes what could be a monumental decision. A live report coming up for you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:15:30]
 
FOSTER: Well, we are just days away from -- hours even away from day two of jury selection in Donald Trump's historic hush money trial in New York City. Any moment, we could expect to see him leave his residence at Trump Tower, travel to the courthouse in lower Manhattan. It's a journey that he is expected to take almost daily during what could be a two-month-long trial. Day one of the trial saw a series of motions by both sides, followed by the start of jury selection. The process of finding a jury is already off to a slow start as more than half of the first group of prospective jurors were eliminated right off the bat. We'll get more now from CNN's Kara Scannell.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: (Inaudible). Nothing like this has ever happened before, has never been anything like it.
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Donald Trump speaking out on a day that saw 96 potential jurors passed through magnetometers to enter the courtroom with Trump. They were sworn in and questioning began. A few minutes later, at least 50 perspective jurors were excused because they told the judge they could not be fair and impartial. Of those who remained, three questions by the judge listed the New York Times and CNN as their sources of news. None said they had read any books by Michael Cohen or Trump, and none of them said they worked or volunteered for any pro-Trump or anti-Trump groups. Just nine members of today's jury pool were questioned and not dismissed by the time court adjourned.
 
Trump faces 34 felony counts of falsifying business records. The Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg says the former president attempted to cover up payments made to adult film actress Stormy Daniels just before the 2016 election, trying to stop her from speaking out about the alleged affair with Trump. Judge Juan Merchan started the day by denying a motion from Trump's lawyers to recuse himself. As attorneys debated, Judge Juan Merchan said he would not allow the infamous Access Hollywood tape to be shown, or video of Trump's deposition in the E. Jean Carroll lawsuit that found him liable for defamation.
 
Karen McDougal, a model who says she had an affair with Trump in 2006 and was paid $150,000 to keep quiet about it, will be allowed to testify. Attorneys also argued about how much the jury can be told about Michael Cohen's crimes.
 
MICHAEL COHEN, DONALD TRUMP'S FORMER ATTORNEY: I did it at the direction of, in concert with, and for the benefit of Donald J. Trump.
 
SCANNELL (voice-over): The credibility of Trump's former fixer who admitted he orchestrated the hush money payment to Stormy Daniels will be one of the most fought-over elements of the case. Trump for his part, entered very few words into the court record. He could sometimes be seen leaning back in his chair with his arms folded and his eyes appeared to be closed for several minutes. When he was introduced as the defendant, Trump turned around and gave the potential jurors a tight-lipped smirk.
 
Once jury selection began, Trump was active, at times conferring with his lawyer and holding the questionnaire up to read as a judge question jurors. Prosecutors also asked the judge to fine Trump for social media posts attacking witnesses involved in the case, saying he violated a gag order. The judge scheduled a hearing for next week to settle that matter. The trial is expected to last six to eight weeks. It may be the only case against Trump to face a jury before the 2024 election. The presumptive Republican nominee complaining about the judge as he walked out of the courtroom.
 
TRUMP: The judge, of course, is not going to allow us. He is a very conflicted judge and he is not going to allow us to go to that. He won't allow me to leave here for I have to go to D.C. and go before in (ph) the United States Supreme Court because he thinks he is superior.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Kara Scannell reporting for us there. Let's go to the courthouse right now, there for preview of day two. Joining us is CNN's Brynn Gingras. And will today, Brynn, be a repeat of yesterday with the same sort of challenges?
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, for the most part, Max. And yeah, we really did see the challenges, how difficult it is going to be to pick a jury for this case, which was fully expected. Why jury- selection is actually expected to take up to two weeks, they think. But yeah, you just heard it there from Kara. There were 96 jurors who were brought in, more than half were immediately dismissed. At this point, when we start the court today, 32 jurors will be inside the courtroom, continuing to tick through that questionnaire, trying to figure out who can actually sit on this jury.
 
Not one person has yet been picked, and there were a number of reasons why people were excused. Most people just said they couldn't be impartial or fair.
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
GINGRAS: Another person said they had strong views about Trump. Another person had a wedding for their child coming up in June. So, there is a variety of reasons why people have decided to excuse themselves or get excused from this jury. So, court is going to start sharp 09:30. That's what the judge wants to do. We are fully expecting, of course, the former president then to be inside the courtroom. He is expected to be here every day of this trial. The judge also making that very clear, and we'll see how he reacts.
 
This is going to be a tedious but, obviously, important part of this trial is picking this jury. So, we'll see how the former president acts inside the courtroom. Does he follow along with the questionnaire? Again, does he sort of weigh in with his attorneys, sort of his reaction to sitting there through another long day of jury selection? Max?
 
FOSTER: He is accused of violating the judge's gag order, isn't he, and prosecutors want him to be sanctioned for that.
 
GINGRAS: Yeah.
 
FOSTER: How do -- how will that work?
 
GINGRAS: Yeah. So even before they could get to the jury selection process, they spent a whole day, both the prosecution and the defense kind of going through some motions, and one of those was brought up by the prosecution saying that Former President Donald Trump has violated that gag order three times, they allege, on different tweets that Trump has put out, one of them calling his Former Fixer Michael Cohen a sleazebag.
 
Now remember, part of that gag order, he cannot disparage witnesses, jurors, members of the judge, or prosecution's family. And so, the judge has not decided if that is in fact a violation of the gag order. He is going to hold a hearing next week on that. The prosecution though was asking that at Trump be fined $1,000 for each of those three tweets. So $3,000. And remember, Max, Trump is not a stranger to violating gag orders. He did several times in fact during the civil fraud trial that happened last year. So, we'll see how the judge rules on that. But a hearing is scheduled for next week.
 
FOSTER: OK. Brynn, thank you very much indeed for bringing us that, ahead of that appearance. While our attention is focused on the New York courthouse, right now, we shouldn't forget that there are significant developments happening at the Supreme Court regarding Trump's legal troubles too. Trump's lawyers have filed their final brief into the question of whether the former president has blanket immunity from any criminal prosecution. And there is a key case being heard today that could impact the charges against Trump. For more on all of this, let's bring in CNN Senior Crime and Justice Reporter, Katelyn Polantz. A lot of explaining to do, Katelyn, what's all about?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, what we received yesterday in the Supreme Court was the final written word from Donald Trump and his attorneys before this all important argument before the Supreme Court next week. The context here, he is facing these criminal charges in Washington, D.C., and the courts are working out whether there is any level of immunity around the U.S. presidency that should protect Donald Trump from prosecution, and whether these charges should be dismissed.
 
Trump's team says they should. The courts so far and the prosecutors, the Justice Department, the special counsel's office that has brought this case against Donald Trump related to the 2020 election, they say that that is not the case. And so, Trump now is making this argument, mustering everything his team can, looking back to the framers of the U.S. Constitution, the words of Alexander Hamilton, George Washington, trying to put that on his side of the argument, saying presidents should be protected. That it's too politicized.
 
And one of the statements that they make in this argument to the Supreme Court is that if presidents don't have protection, even after they leave office, for anything that they say and do while in office, if they can be prosecuted for things they do while president, even if they are blatantly against the law, that sort of idea could be wielded with the threat of prosecution as a cudgel against a president while they're in office. It could be used by people on the other opposing side in politics.
 
And so, there is an argument here also to be made where Donald Trump is looking back at the presidency of Richard Nixon, where Nixon was being investigated for crimes and then was pardoned by his successor, Gerald Ford in the presidency. And he is saying in this brief that, that shows that Gerald Ford, a former U.S. president, believed that presidents shouldn't be prosecuted and the Supreme Court should go with that side of the arguments. Now, the special counsel's office, the Justice Department, they say that's not at all the case. Every American president, including the people that wrote the Constitution and founded the country believed that this was a powerful important thing that presidents believed that they could be prosecuted for breaking the law after they left office.
 
But, all of this is going to come down to those nine justices on the U.S. Supreme Court. They are not expected to rule when they hear the arguments next week, but they will be very likely issuing a decision in the coming months, to determine if Donald Trump can go to trial.
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
FOSTER: It is a lot, isn't it, for Trump's lawyers to juggle right now, as is usually the case, but particularly right now, when he has to appear every day during the New York court case as well. How are you seeing them juggle these separate cases?
 
POLANTZ: Well, they've used it as part of their strategy in a lot of ways. There are courtroom lawyers that are at trial and those lawyers in New York at the trial, they're not the people that will be arguing the Supreme Court case next week, even though Donald Trump is the common defendant in those two matters. But, these lawyers that are working on the New York case, they are also working on his other cases at the trial level in D.C. and in Florida, the federal cases, and have said two courts, well, we can't do anything while he is in trial in New York and also we need to be able to consult with him.
 
Yesterday, Donald Trump took a lot of issue with that, saying that the court in New York in this hush money trial where he is now on trial, they're not letting him go to attend the Supreme Court arguments next week related to presidential immunity and his January 6 case. But, it's very atypical for a criminal defendant to sit in a Supreme Court argument like that. It's a question of law, not a question about the defendant himself, and he would never be asked to speak before the U.S. Supreme Court whenever this is being argued next week.
 
FOSTER: OK. Katelyn, thank you so much for that. We are going to have much more on Donald Trump's legal troubles a bit later on. I'll be speaking to a former federal prosecutor about the challenges of charging and convicting a former president. But before that, the world is watching and waiting to see how Israel will respond to Iran's direct attacks over the weekend, as the international community calls for restraint.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: It's not a question of if, but when and how, Israel is making it clear there will be a response to last weekend's direct attacks by Iran, but the timing and the scope remain unclear. The Israeli war cabinet is meeting right now for the third straight day, but international pressure is building on Israel to exercise restraint. CNN's Nic Robertson has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): In heated debate, Israel's war cabinet facing their toughest decision since October 7th. How to respond to Iran's unprecedented air assault over the weekend? Differences over how and when, not if, dividing them, looking to allies for help.
 
BENNY GANTZ, ISRAELI WAR CABINET MINISTER: Faced with the threat of Iran, we will build a regional coalition and exact a price from Iran in a way and at a time that suits us.
 <br>[08:30:00]
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): At stake, escalation have already inflamed tensions, even regional war, the U.S. urging restraint and recusing itself from retaliation.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: We have been coordinating a diplomatic response to seek to prevent escalation.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): According to Israeli officials, Iran launched more than 350 drones, cruise and ballistic missiles late Saturday, early Sunday, 60 tons of explosives, most intercepted by Israel and allies. In a paradigm shift of decades of proxy shadow war with Israel, Iran claiming it has established deterrence following Israel's deadly attacks on its Damascus consulate two weeks ago and warning Israel and the U.S. against retaliation.
 
KANAANI (through translator): Instead of making accusations, the western countries should appreciate the (inaudible) of Iran's restraint and responsible actions towards stability and safety in the region.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Even Israel's putative ally Jordan, which helped bring down some Iranian missiles Sunday, is wary of Israel's next move.
 
AYMAN SAFADI, JORDANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: Israeli prime minister has always wanted to invoke some sort of confrontation with Iran. Now, as the international pressure on Israel to stop the aggression on Gaza continues, invoking a fight with Iran is something that we believe he thinks could dilute that pressure.
 
ROBERTSON: In Gaza, after months of mounting international pressure, Israel appearing to delay plans for an offensive in the densely populated southern city of Rafah and established aid deliveries directly into the malnourished north. For now, how hard to hit back at Iran and not blow up relations with allies dominating Israel's political agenda. And then perhaps the strongest indication that the clock is ticking down to a decision, Israel's Army Chief of Staff, Herzi Halevi, told troops that they are thinking ahead and there will be a response to Iran's attack.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Where do things move, right now, CNN's Alex Marquardt has some new reports going on what the U.S. expects Israel's response to be. Alex?
 
ALEXANDER MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Max, the U.S. officials that we've been speaking with agree with what Nic was just saying there, that it's not a question of if, but when and how. Now, I'm not sure whether it's much comfort, but Israel has told U.S. officials, according to one person I've been speaking with, that what they are planning, what Israel is planning would be limited in scope. What that looks like, we still don't know, but a second source is telling our colleague Natasha Bertrand that there are indications that Israel wants to carry out some kind of kinetic military action which would be a response, of course, to that Iranian retaliation on Saturday night with more than some 300 projectiles.
 
Another thing we are told, Max, is that there has been no warning yet by Israel to the United States about an imminent attack. The Biden Administration certainly hopes that there would be some kind of warning because should there be an Iranian response to that, that could certainly threaten U.S. assets, U.S. personnel, military and diplomatic in the region.
 
For now, the Pentagon says they are maintaining some of those assets that they had moved out to the Middle East in anticipation of the Iranian attack on Saturday night, perhaps the surest sign that things are not yet over. So while the U.S. does believe that Israel will take some kind of action, there is certainly a hope that Israel will, as officials have been telling us, take the win, that they will realize that some kind of balance has been re-established.
 
There was the Israeli attack against the Iranian consulate in Damascus, Iran then responded to that. And in the U.S.' view, because Israel did so well at repelling the Iranian attack, that equilibrium has been re-established, but it does not appear that Israel sees it that way. They see it as that they have a need to respond. But what that response looks like, we will have to wait and see you, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK. Alex, thank you for bringing us that. To Sydney, Australia now. The city is still reeling from two knife attacks over just a few days. The latest caught on the church's live stream, during a sermon on Monday. Police are calling the ambush a terrorist act. They say the knife wielding suspect is 16-year-old boy. A bishop and a Parish priest were both injured, but are expected to recover. Worshipers were able to restrain the attacker. Police say he was not on any terror watchlist.
 <br>[08:35:00]
 
FOSTER: Authorities also condemned an eruption of violence outside the church after the attack, a crowd of people turned on police and medics. Dozens of people were hurt in the clashes. Emergency responders had to hide in the church for at least three hours until things calmed down.
 
China's economy picked up speed at the start of 2024. First quarter Gross Domestic Product was up 5.3 percent from a year earlier. Analysts were expecting 4.6 percent, so that is good news, isn't it, Marc Stewart?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Max, it is the headline that Beijing certainly wanted. Let me give you some context here. It was earlier this year, in fact, just one month ago that government leaders gathered here in Beijing and Xi Jinping outlined an economic growth target of around 5 percent for 2024, seen as ambitious by some. But from what we are hearing from the data dump that we saw today, expectations were met in this first quarter.
 
The real question is, is this sustainable? Is it something that can be maintained in the future? In fact, if we look at the growth, a lot of it has to do with China's robust ability to manufacture goods at a very fast and competitive rate. And here in China, I can tell you as someone who reports on the economy, there are really three big industries, electric vehicles, solar powers, and batteries. So much success in those areas that it can be argued that China is perhaps flooding the market, putting so much merchandise that it's creating an unlevel playing field, especially when it comes to pricing and it's a concern that we heard from Secretary -- the Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen when she was in China last week. It's also some themes that we have heard from the German Chancellor, who has also been spending time here in China.
 
The real question is, will manufacturing be the future of China? Because there are some other issues that need to resolve, including the housing sector which has created problems, and so many other areas including unemployment and just consumer confidence. In fact, today, we heard from one economist for Moody's Analytics, Harry Murphy Cruise. He said, "There is a growing mismatch in China's economy. Manufacturers are doing the heavy lifting while households are on the sidelines."
 
So the real question is, how do you get people confident to spend money once again? China is certainly making appeals to the west. In fact, as part of this visit by the German Chancellor, a number of executives, heavy hitters from some of Germany's most recognizable brands are here in China, trying to alleviate concerns about government crackdowns and trying to get these nations enthused about the fact that there is a very large spending population here.
 
Max, I should point out that while there is so much skepticism about the Chinese economy, it's not stagnant. It's just slow growing compared to what we've seen in the past.
 
FOSTER: And how reliable are the numbers because there have been questions about that in the past?
 
STEWART: Well, we always raise an eyebrow when we look at these -- at these data points from China. That's certainly a natural thing to do. But based off of what we are hearing from the economists, it seems like there is some credibility attached to it. I mean, China has to be careful, while it may want to inflate things or distort the numbers, it also realizes that the global marketplace, it's pretty sophisticated and can perhaps see through some of that.
 
FOSTER: OK. Thank you so much, Marc, for bringing us that. Now, emergency crews in Denmark have been battling an intense fire, the historic Old Stock Exchange building, which is in the heart of the capital Copenhagen. People watched in horror as nearly half of the 400-year-old landmark was destroyed. The city's fire chief says, firefighters have been doing all they can to save valuable artifacts from the flames. He spoke with us a little earlier.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKOB VEDSTED ANDERSEN, DIRECTOR, GREATER COPENHAGEN FIRE SERVICE: Everybody is saved, nobody is hurt in this fire. We have tried to rescue a lot of historic paintings that was inside the building and the historic furnitures. So, we have been working very hard this morning to rescue out old paintings, old valuable paintings, and historic furnitures.
 
(CROSSTALK) FOSTER: Thankfully, we can see all of the scaffolding around the building. It was clearly undergoing some building work. Do you suspect that might be the cause here?
 
ANDERSEN: It's way too soon to speculate on the cause of the fire. But as soon as we have the fire under control, we will together with the police start the investigation of the cause of the fire.
 
FOSTER: (Inaudible) probably mentioned as well the irony of this fire that there were these dragon tales, weren't there, wrapped around the spire, which legend has it protected the building from fires. And this is because this is a building that's been up since 1625, as you say, and survived multiple fires over the centuries in surrounding buildings.
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
ANDERSEN: Yeah. That's right. It's a very, very old building and I also know the tale about the dragons. But unfortunately, this time, the dragons couldn't say the building but the heroic firefighters are doing their very best to save the part of the building that's still possible.
 
FOSTER: Modern day dragons. Jakob Vedsted Andersen, thank you so much and good luck with your work today.
 
ANDERSEN: (Inaudible).
 
FOSTER: And as he said, it's too early to speculate about what started the fire, the stock exchange was built-in 1620s under Denmark's King Christian IV.
 
The 2024 Olympic torch relay is underway. The torch was lit early on Tuesday morning in Olympia, Greece, as is the ancient tradition. It will be carried by 600 torch bearers on a three-week journey to France, where it will mark the start of the games on July 26. Elinda Labropoulou joins us from Olympia with the story. It came around quickly, didn't it? But it was a pretty spectacular event.
 
ELINDA LABROPOULOU, CNN JOURNALIST: It was a really spectacular event. And in fact, it started right behind me. This as the Temple of Hera. This is where the dance and the high priestess lit the flame before taking it into the stadium in front of the spectators who were gathered there and waiting. It's a remarkable moment when this happens because you have to remember that this is the birthplace of the Olympics. This is where the first games to play -- at the 776 BC. So were looking at a history dating back almost three millennia.
 
So, the crowds cheer. The first torch bearer took the torch out of the stadium, and from then, it will be passed on to hundreds of people in Greece and eventually the thousands of people before it reaches its final destination in Paris, France. A number of people were also here from the boat that will transport the flame. It's a beautiful boat. The Belem, it's a historic French boat. A three-masted wonderful old cargo ship that will take the flame from Greece's Panathenaic Stadium, the first place where the modern Olympics were held, to Marseille, to the Port of Marseille, and from there, thousands of people will carry it all the way to Paris in what the French are promising to be is going -- is going to be a spectacular ceremony.
 
We've understood now that the French President Emmanuel Macron has said that possibly, there may be some changes to this initial plan to have the flame come in all across the Seine due to security reasons. And much like any people here today, he has made an announcement to support the Olympic Truce.
 
The Olympic Truce used to be what the ancient Greeks practiced. It used to be a cessation of all kinds of hostilities during the time of the games, so the athletes and spectators could have free passage. This has been a call from the U.N. It has been ongoing since 1993 with, of course, until now, very limited results, Max, but still afloat (ph).
 
FOSTER: Absolutely, Elinda, thank you so much for joining us for that historic site. Up next on "CNN Newsroom," Donald Trump is now en route to a New York court for the second day. I'll be talking to a former federal prosecutor about the challenges of picking a jury in Trump's hush money case, when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:45:30]
 
FOSTER: Donald Trump has left Trump Tower and is now on his way to the courthouse in downtown Manhattan for the second day of his hush money trial. Today, it will once again be dedicated to finding a jury, as the judge and lawyers try to identify people who can be unbiased as they sit in judgment of the former president. So far, more than half of the initial group of prospective jurors was eliminated on day one.
 
For some analysis of all of this, let's bring in Former Federal Prosecutor Michael Zeldin. He is the host of the podcast, "That Said with Michael Zeldin." Thank you so much for joining us. I mean, it is an incredibly difficult thing to do, isn't it, finding anyone in New York who doesn't have an opinion about Donald Trump?
 
MICHAEL ZELDIN, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Correct. But having an opinion is not disqualifying per se. The question is, can you listen to the evidence with an open mind? Can you follow the judge's jury instructions and then render a verdict on the basis of that evidence, and on that evidence alone?
 
So if you are asked the question, can you render a verdict based on the evidence fairly? And you say, no, you get dismissed immediately. That happened to 50 people yesterday. If you say, yeah, I have a position about Trump. I like him or don't like him, but I believe I can follow the evidence and listen to the jury instructions and make a verdict on that basis, then they're still on for now.
 
FOSTER: You also have to know that they're telling the truth as well, don't you? Because it's such a sensitive case, as many of them are. But if something appears later on, how much damage would that do to the case? Does it undermine it completely? ZELDIN: Well, it could, depending on the nature of the untruthfulness, but these prospective jurors are all swearing to tell the truth and answering these questions. And so, where they to lie in answer to these questions, they themselves would face criminal prosecution possibly. I think jurors try very hard to be honest in the answer to these questions. But in a case that's as politically fraught as this, you just don't know whether you are going to get a juror or two who might try to sneak their way onto the jury for some ulterior motive.
 
And the problem with that, of course, Max, is that in our jury system, you need a unanimous jury in a criminal case. So if you get one person who has snuck onto the jury and hangs the jury, meaning they can't get the unanimous verdict, then they have to do it all over again. And if they have to do it all over again, that's not going to probably happen before the election in November.
 
FOSTER: So in cases like this, where it is very sensitive to select the jury, how long do you expect this phase to go through -- go for?
 
ZELDIN: Well, the predictions are one to two weeks. What we are hearing so far from the people who are watching the court, is that Trump and his lawyers are really trying to slow this process down. They are not quick to pick a jury. They want, again, more time to pass in the hopes that perhaps this trial just lingers on and on, and we don't get a verdict. Or if there is a mistrial, a hung jury, there won't be enough time to re-try the case. So with them trying to slow it down and the amount of questions, there was a 42-question questionnaire that has to be answered by each juror, I expect about two weeks will pass before we have a final jury selected.
 
FOSTER: So as you say, it is a long period. Is this a signal of what we are going to see throughout this trial? That it's going to be very long-winded.
 
ZELDIN: I think so. Again, I think that the Trump team particularly wants to do everything they can to delay the ultimate outcome in this case and I also think that their -- to their credit, in the sense, trying to protect the record should he be convicted and they want to appeal, they want to make sure that they've done everything they can to preserve his best interests on appeal. So, it is the normal give- and-take between prosecutors and defense attorneys, just that this is not a normal defendant.
 
FOSTER: OK. Really appreciate that. Former Federal Prosecutor Michael Zeldin, thank you for insight today.
 
Still to come, as Donald Trump makes his way to the New York court for a second straight day, we look at why the hush money trial may be Manhattan D.A. Alvin Bragg's toughest case yet.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:51:30]
 
FOSTER: Donald Trump arriving at the courthouse in Manhattan. You can see his security there holding the door, so he is about to arrive. Very tight security, as you can see, the public are not being allowed anywhere near this in a very secure building. We are told as well, even has his own lift inside to get up and down the building. And he is about to go into the building. This is the second day of the trial. It's all about jury selection. And as were just hearing from our guests there, the Trump team very much doing this very much by the book. So it is a very long process.
 
Trying to find people who can be impartial as they make their own judgments about Donald Trump as he goes through this hush money trial. Big team as well, he has also got teams working in Washington for separate cases, but this is the criminal trial where he does have to appear for each day the court is sitting. So, all focus on him right now and getting through these weeks.
 
As Manhattan's top Prosecutor, Alvin Bragg, has it's had to suffer slings and arrows and some harsh rhetoric from Donald Trump. Last year, he indicted Trump on 34 felony counts in the hush money case. CNN's Jason Carroll introduces us to the man who is the first to ever criminally prosecute a former president.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Alvin Bragg could be described as a man with a few notable firsts behind his name.
 
ALVIN BRAGG, MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY: Good afternoon.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): He's 50 years old and in 2022, he became the first black Manhattan district attorney. And now, he is the first to prosecute a criminal case involving a former U.S. president, Donald Trump.
 
Bragg had a prestigious early start. He attended Trinity School, an elite private school on Manhattan's Upper West Side. But back in his neighborhood, he says he was often wrongly stopped by police as a teenager. He gave insight into his experiences during his campaign for office.
 
BRAGG: When I think about police accountability, I think about the NYPD stopping me three times a gunpoint as a kid. When I think about violent crime, I think about having a knife to my neck, a semi- automatic weapon to my head, and a homicide victim on my doorstep.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Bragg's interest in law started early. He graduated from Harvard Law. A 1995 article in "The Harvard Crimson" credited him for moderating a discussion between black and Jewish students, calling him the "anointed one" for his ability to reconcile diverse people and clashing views. Bragg's resume lists a series of prestigious offices. He served as assistant attorney in the southern district of New York, a top lawyer in the New York attorney general's office, a professor of the New York Law School racial justice project.
 
That's where he represented the family of Eric Garner. The family sued the city after a plain-clothed officer put them in an unauthorized chokehold after he was caught selling loose cigarettes. Garner's death in 2014 sparked outrage and protests nationwide. Bragg credits his interest in police reform to his years growing up here in Harlem, where he says once again, he was unfairly stopped by police as a child.
 
His mother was a teacher, his father a social worker according to "The New York Times." And Bragg now taking on his highest profile case to date, his case against the former president underway.
 
BRAGG: These are felony crimes in New York State, no matter who you are, we cannot and will not normalize serious criminal conduct.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Bragg who was a Democrat making good on a campaign promise to make Trump a priority.
 <br>[08:55:00]
 
BRAGG: I'm ready to go wherever the facts take me. I believe we have to hold him accountable.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Trump has called his trial political persecution and has repeatedly directed his anger at Bragg, someone he has called an animal and a degenerate.
 
TRUMP: The racist Manhattan District Attorney, Alvin Bragg, who is presiding over one of the most dangerous and violent cities in the United States -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Jason Carroll brought us that fascinating report. Thank you for joining me here on "CNN Newsroom." I am Max Foster in London. Up next, my colleagues Erica Hill in New York, Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi will have all the latest on Donald Trump's second day in court. And of course, the latest from the Middle East as well. Do stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:00:00]