Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: CNN Projects: Republicans Will Keep Control Of The House; Biden And Trump Meet, Reaffirm Peaceful Transition; Trump Tells House Republicans He's "With Johnson All The Way"; Sen. John Thune Elected New Senate GOP Leader; Sen. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) Discusses About House And Senate Leadership. Aired 3-3:30p ET

Aired November 13, 2024 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:01:39]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Breaking news into CNN, the Republican trifecta is official. CNN is now projecting the House of Representatives will remain in Republican control after the GOP won two House seats in California and Arizona. The races were called just moments ago, and it come as Donald Trump makes his triumphant return to Washington. President Biden hosting President-elect Trump in the Oval Office earlier, the White House saying that Trump brought a detailed set of questions to that meeting. They described the talks is very cordial, very gracious and substantive. Trump also visited with House Republicans today, where he backed Speaker Mike Johnson bid to retain his leadership position. A secret ballot vote in that race is expected at any moment.
 
Now, Trump did not weigh in on who he wanted for Senate leadership, but their Republican senators elected South Dakota's John Thune to replace Mitch McConnell as their new leader, Thune, declaring that they have a mandate to pursue Trump's agenda. CNN's Manu Raju is on Capitol Hill.
 
Manu, a lot happening. Start with the Senate leadership race.
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that is Senate majority leader, John Thune. He's the incoming Senate Majority Leader after this race that had been going on for roughly nine months or so happening behind the scenes in the aftermath of Mitch McConnell stepping aside the longest serving Senate leader of any party in history, dominating his Republican conference for 18 years, but stepping aside and leaving - paving the way for John Thune, who edged out John Cornyn, another rival in the Republican conference, by a vote of 29 to 24 Rick Scott, who was favored by some folks on the - in the MAGA wing of the party. Scott did not make it to a second ballot of voting.
 
So now John Thune has to implement Donald Trump's agenda. He and Donald Trump just spoke on the phone and Thune has promised to be in line with Trump, even though he has sparred with Trump over the years and criticized his efforts to overturn the 2020 election and also endorsed Tim Scott for the presidency. But now Thune says that things will be on the same page, including over Donald Trump's call to push through his nominees. Trump had called for using recess appointments, essentially bypassing the Senate confirmation process and putting his appointments in during extended Senate recesses. Thune was asked about that at a press conference earlier.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): We will do everything we can to process his noms quickly, get them installed in their position so they can begin to implement his agenda. We expect a level of cooperation from the Democrats to work with us to get these folks installed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Okay, then I'll just do the House now.
 
So meantime, the House Republicans are going to elect or nominate their next speaker of the House in a matter of moments this afternoon. That's going to be Mike Johnson, who does have the support of Donald Trump. But there's a catch though here, Boris. Now that the House Republicans are projected to have a majority, they will have a razor thin majority. That means that while Mike Johnson will be nominated by the House Republican Conference to be the next speaker of the House and be favored to retain the gavel, he can't afford much dissension on the House floor in order to get the 218 votes he will need on January 3rd to be elected speaker.
 
So the work will still be cut out with them from some folks on the far right, some will try to push him out of the speakership earlier this year.
 <br>[15:05:04]
 
People like Marjorie Taylor Greene and the like, try to limit the dissension. But Johnson is leaning very much on Donald Trump, who wants Johnson in that position, as now Trump will have unified Republican control of Washington to push through his agenda. Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: We're going to keep a close eye on that contest and bring you the latest as we get it. Manu Raju live for us on Capitol Hill, thank you so much. Brianna?
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: President-elect Trump got a warm welcome from House Republicans during his trip to Capitol Hill this morning. Let's turn to CNN's Alayna Treene for the latest on this. What do you know? This was behind closed doors.
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: It was, although some of it we got to hear a little bit of Donald when he - Donald Trump addressed the group, and then they went behind closed doors. Look, one of the things that's really interesting is what Manu was just talking about how House Republicans have this razor thin majority. Donald Trump brought that up. He was, you know, really taking a victory lap with this visit on meeting with the House Republican Caucus today. And he said he was like, Look, I won really big in all of these states. It's crazy that you guys have a slim margin kind of making fun of them.
 
But I think the point really of that entire meeting and from my conversations with those who were involved with the planning on this is that Donald Trump wanted to go and claim what she did that he had won the popular vote. I know there's still millions of votes being counted, but he claimed that he has a mandate and that the popular vote would give him a mandate and that really he wants all of Washington, particularly Republicans, to line up behind him and really to hit the ground running on his agenda, particularly once he takes office in January.
 
Now, I want to read for you some of what we know he said behind closed doors. First of all, I think Manu mentioned this, but he did show his support for Mike Johnson. A source in the room had told us that he basically said he was with Johnson all the way. He did not weigh in on the Senate Republican meeting, but he did give Johnson that backing. But this was interesting as well.
 
A source in the room told our own Dana Bash that he was joking that he couldn't get rid of Elon Musk, saying that Musk loves Mar-a-Lago. The reason I bring this up is because, one, we know that Musk has had an immense amount of influence on Donald Trump, particularly in the weeks leading up to the election in the days after.
 
And he actually traveled with the President-elect this morning. He rode with him on his plane from Palm Beach. He attended that meeting. He was sitting front row watching Donald Trump give his remarks. And so I think that's just another sign of how really powerful Elon Musk is. And I can tell you as well, I know from my conversations with people working for lawmakers, but also those close to Trump that Elon Musk has been calling up lawmakers, and they have been calling up him trying to jockey and really to boost their profiles in Donald Trump's eyes. And so I thought it was fascinating that he joined him today.
 
KEILAR: He's the guy next to Donald Trump. They're trying to get his ear. It's really interesting. Alayna Treene, thank you so much for the report. Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Joining us now is Republican senator, Kevin Cramer of North Dakota.
 
Senator, thank you so much for being with us.
 
First and foremost, congratulations on your reelection last week. I want to start asking you ...
 
SEN. KEVIN CRAMER (R-ND): Thank you.
 
SANCHEZ: about John Thune as Senate majority leader. You endorsed him for majority leader. I found it interesting that a number of Republicans endorsed Rick Scott, including some like Elon Musk, who slammed Thune by calling him a top choice for Democrats. What did you make of that?
 
CRAMER: Well, Elon Musk has never been in the United States Senate. I don't know that he knows John Thune or John Cornyn or Rick Scott or you know how many senators he knows. But one thing about senators we're all - we all got elected as well as everybody else, right? And we all have our own responsibilities and we have these personal relationships. We know everybody very well. I don't think senators are easily persuaded by somebody that doesn't have - you know, that's not a constituent.
 
And Elon Musk is an entertaining fellow, and I appreciate his willingness to step out there and express himself. I applauded. I even enjoy it, but I don't think it's real persuasive with senators who - I don't - I've not met my first wimpy senator, if you know what I mean.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, I think it comes, Senator, from a place of apprehension among those who see themselves as MAGA acolytes about someone like ...
 
CRAMER: Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: ... Sen. Thune because he's seen as someone who's criticized Donald Trump in the past. And so there's some apprehension there, specifically on the potential for dissent when it comes to appointments to Trump's cabinet. We heard Thune say that he would do everything possible to get Donald Trump's picks through. I'm wondering what your thoughts are on the potential to see recess appointments to get folks through ...
 
CRAMER: Sure.
 
SANCHEZ: ... folks like Pete Hegseth for defense secretary.
 
CRAMER: Well, first of all, I'm - starting with Pete Hegseth - I'm on the Armed Services Committee, and I'm going to do everything I can to have a successful Pete Hegseth, you know, hearing and to get a markup and pass them the old fashioned way. And the reason it's important, I think, that we do everything we can, Boris, within the advice and consent responsibility of the Senate, as per, by the way, the Constitution, is that I think it makes for stronger secretaries.
 <br>[15:10:09]
 
If you go in to run the Department of Defense and you have the backing of the United States Senate and the president of the United States, it's much better than a recess appointment. Having said that, a recess appointment is valid. It can be done and it has been done to great effect in previous administrations.
 
However, the first thing we need doing when we have a united government like this, when you have a Senate and a president on the same page, and we are, I think it's much better if we just get to the job quickly, stay late, stay through longer weeks and confirm as many of these people as we can with the full advice and consent of the United States Senate.
 
SANCHEZ: Senator, despite your enthusiasm for Hegseth, he is seen as somewhat of an unorthodox and controversial pick, given his previous statements about women in combat. Also, a reporting that's indicated that he has been a driving force in Donald Trump pardoning people who have been accused and suspected of war crimes. I wonder if you agree with him on the idea that women should not be serving in combat roles in the U. S. Armed Forces, and whether you think getting him confirmed is going to be an uphill battle.
 
CRAMER: You know, I don't, Boris. I mean, they're going to be policy disagreements here and there for sure. But I think that most Republicans and frankly, a lot of Democrats and I know Republicans have supported Democratic nominees that they didn't agree with because they think that's the president's prerogative, and they want to respect that as much as they can.
 
In the case of Pete, this is like the perfect face of peace through strength and somebody who, as a warrior, has gotten his hands dirty in battle. That carries a lot of weight, and it ought to. Now, he's going to need a lot of help around him. Obviously, a great leader surrounds himself with even greater people, and that's what I would advise him to do. But no, I think we can get - I think Pete can get at least the 53 Republicans to vote for him and maybe some more.
 
The sense of the past, we - I think we're well past that being a disqualifier anymore for public office, and rightfully so. Everybody likes a redemption story.
 
SANCHEZ: I'm also curious about your thoughts for DNI. As you were speaking, Senator, I got word from my producer ...
 
CRAMER: Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: ... that President-elect Trump has announced his choice of former Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard as the direction - as the director of National Intelligence. She's also a controversial figure, someone who's been accused of being a Russian asset. Are you comfortable with her and her track record having access to some of the nation's most sensitive secrets?
 
CRAMER: Well, first of all, I - Tulsi and I were classmates in the House. I know her pretty well. She's also a warrior. She has donned the uniform. And frankly, as a member of the House of Representatives, Tulsi had access to the deepest secrets in the in the country as well. And by the way, the only thing she had to do to earn that was get more votes than her opponent. It's kind of a funny system that we have here.
 
But having said all of that, I think once again, Tulsi is a - is an illustration of peace through strength with an understanding of populist view, a mega view, if you will, that I think is what the American people elected. She's very articulate. She knows who the enemy is. I have full faith in her, and I think most of my colleagues in the United States Senate will. And frankly, I think when you take Tulsi and Pete and Mike Waltz as the National Security advisor, you're seeing the picture.
 
This is the president who wants to deter the enemy not simply by better weapon systems, but by attitude and by reputation. Kristi Noem, frankly, for DHS, similarly, you might argue about particular experiences or, you know, credentials, if you will. But at the end of the day, they're all strong leaders who I think represent that that peace through strength attitude, not just the weapon system. And I think it's a perfect picture of what Donald Trump, I think, has been talking about throughout the campaign.
 
SANCHEZ: Senator, I have one more question for you about how ...
 
CRAMER: Sure.
 
SANCHEZ: ... certain generals might fit into the picture that you're describing, because The Wall Street Journal is reporting ...
 
CRAMER: Sure.
 
SANCHEZ: ... that Trump is weighing this executive order that would establish a warrior board to review high ranking generals and their fitness for service. The Trump campaign was asked about this. They didn't deny that it was being considered. In your mind, what would be the criteria to determine the fitness of certain generals for service and are there any three or four star generals that you believe are currently unfit to serve?
 
CRAMER: So I know a lot of three and four star generals, obviously, being on the Armed Services Committee, I don't know of any that are unfit, at least, I don't know why they would be unfit. I get that there's this woke thing going on in our military. But I don't blame the generals for that.
 <br>[15:15:01]
 
Generals - even a four star general salutes up to the Secretary, who salutes up to the Secretary of Defense who salutes up to the President of the United States. I think blaming political policy positions and decisions on the generals is the wrong direction. Having said that, the president has a prerogative if he sees somebody that he doesn't like or he, you know, he puts some criteria forward that they don't meet, he can fire people.
 
The idea of putting a board together, I think sends a bit of a wrong message to the generals and frankly, to those warriors that would aspire to become a general. So I'd want to - I'd caution them on that and have - but having said that, again, he's the commander in chief, what I'd rather do is I'd rather have him personally or his, you know, his pick to be Secretary of Defense, to talk to the generals themselves, ask pointed questions about their views on DEI and ESG.
 
But to blame, for example, an admiral for the attitude of the Secretary of the Navy, Secretary Del Toro, I think is grossly unfair. On the one hand, you have a guy who thinks that climate change is more important than China as a threat. You just can't reconcile that, I don't think, with somebody who's actually wearing the uniform. So I'm not going to judge that. I would just caution the president.
 
The other thing is, it also wanders a little bit over into a separation of powers issue with me. Generals are confirmed by the United States Senate after they've been recommended by the leadership, you know, again, up the ladder. Let's get the Republican Senate in place and the House in place. And let's get President Trump in place and start working on those things, you know, in a more somewhat traditional way, if you will. And I think you're going to find that we have a lot of great generals that have been poisoned, if you will, in reputation by the people that they salute up to.
 
SANCHEZ: Senator Kevin Cramer, we appreciate you sharing your point of view with us. Thanks for the time.
 
CRAMER: Always a pleasure. Thanks, Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: Thanks.
 
Still to come, Donald Trump is back in the White House. Less than four years ago, he left under a cloud and today he returned as president- elect. We have much more on this historic meeting with President Biden. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:21:34]
 
KEILAR: Turning back now to our breaking news, President-elect Trump has named former Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard as his pick for director of National Intelligence. This is a controversial choice and not the first for the new or the incoming administration. CNN's Kristen Holmes' here with us now.
 
Kristen, tell us more about what you're hearing.
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. And we expect this to set up a major confirmation battle. There's going to be a lot of back and forth over Tulsi Gabbard. Just a little bit of background on her. She served in the House for a number of years as a Democrat from Hawaii. Earlier this year, she transferred parties. She joined the Republican Party. She has been out there slamming Democrats, saying that they are pro-censorship, they're anti-freedom and also essentially campaigning for Donald Trump.
 
Now, it's not that surprising that she got a position in the administration. We know that she had been helping behind the scenes with the transition in terms of intelligence, helping with personnel, helping with policy. But again, we expect this to be a very controversial pick. And the other thing to point out, and one of the things I reported yesterday is that Donald Trump is doing a lot of his picking based on how people present on television. Tulsi Gabbard, she has been a fill in anchor on Fox. She also has been on the airwaves for months talking about Donald Trump's talking points, trying to articulate his message.
 
He is a - she is a known entity when it comes to articulating that message on television. It just goes to show you with the announcement of the secretary of defense yesterday, who is also a television personality that this is something Donald Trump is weighing heavily. And just quickly, I want to read part of the statement that Donald Trump put out.
 
He said, "Over the past two decades, Tulsi has fought for our country and for the freedoms of all Americans as a former candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination," which I didn't mention. She did run for president in 2020. "She has broad support in both parties. She is now a proud Republican. I know Tulsi will bring fearless spirit that has defined her illustrious career to our intelligence community, championing our constitutional rights and securing peace through strength."
 
She maybe will have some people on both sides of the aisle, which is also going to have a lot of detractors, Brianna.
 
KEILAR: And then there's DOGE.
 
HOLMES: Yes.
 
KEILAR: It's kind of more of a commission on government efficiency, I think, than a department of government efficiency.
 
HOLMES: Right.
 
KEILAR: But this is what Donald Trump is tapping Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy to run. Tell us about it.
 
HOLMES: Yes, I think you could look at this. Yes, they put a name on it, but it looks more like a presidential commission. And we knew that Elon Musk was not going to join the administration. He was not going to give up a lot of his lucrative contracts. He was not going to leave X or leave Tesla. But this is a way of Donald Trump giving him oversight into something.
 
Now, the big question, of course, is how much power is Elon Musk actually going to have in this position?
 
Just one other thing, it seems very hard to imagine Vivek Ramaswamy getting confirmed for any administration post, which is likely why he also got slated into this section. Can't say he wouldn't, obviously, Republicans have control of both the Senate and the House. But this is an opportunity to give them some power in Washington, some say in Washington. They both have been very loyal to the former president and now President-elect without actually having to go through Congress for any of this.
 
KEILAR: All right, Kristen Holmes, thank you so much for the insights. Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Right now, we're learning new details on President Joe Biden and President-elect Donald Trump's historic Oval Office meeting earlier today. The White House says that Trump brought, quote, a detailed set of questions to the two hour long face-to-face. Let's take you live to the White House now with CNN's MJ Lee.
 <br>[15:25:02]
 
MJ, what are you hearing about this meeting?
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this was a meeting that in the end ended up lasting just about two hours. Just four people were in the room: Donald Trump, President Biden and Susie Wiles and Jeff Zients, their chiefs of staff. And Karine Jean-Pierre, the White House press secretary, just told reporters, as you said, that the former president had brought a detailed set of questions for President Biden, though she didn't elaborate on what some of those questions might have been and said that the meeting had been cordial and gracious and that the two men spent their time discussing a number and a range of domestic and foreign policy issues and that President Biden, for his part, reiterated to President Trump in this private setting the importance of a peaceful and smooth transition of power.
 
Donald Trump, for his part, actually, after leaving the White House, told The New York Post in an interview that the two men really enjoyed seeing each other and that we got to know each other again, is what he told this reporter. So, you know, as for President Biden, this was clearly a moment where he decided to at least briefly set aside some of the harsh criticisms and words that he has used to describe the former president, including calling him a fascist, obviously, for a number of years. He has talked a lot about how he sees his predecessor and now the incoming president as being a threat to democracy.
 
And as for just the scene here at the White House, you know, this was a day when a lot of the staff and the aides working here were really still reeling from the Election Day results from last week. And I was told by a number of people that their focus really was to try to keep everything as business as usual, even though, of course, the man that was visiting the White House today is the person that they would rather not see coming back to the White House for another four years, Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: MJ Lee live for us at the White House. Thank you so much.
 
Still ahead, Sen. John Thune selected as majority leader, beating out the MAGA choice. What this could mean for how the Senate and White House work together.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)