Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: New York Primary Showdown; Dr. Vivek Murthy is Interviewed about Gun Violence; Protesters Breach Kenya Parliament; Brigitte Bandit is Interviewed about Lobbying Congress for LGBTQ+ Protections. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired June 25, 2024 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:35:05] 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: Today voters in New York, Colorado, and Utah are heading to the polls for primary races in special elections. 
 
CNN's Harry Enten, our chief data reporter, is here with us.
 
What's the - what's the top race that you're really focusing in on watching? 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I've got to tell you, there is no race that I've been more excited for, trying to get as many Google alerts this entire cycle than this one, New York 16 Congressional District. A big reason why is, if you know anything about me, you knew - 
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
ENTEN: Know that this is where I grew up. So, I have an intense interest in this one. Intense interests, just because of the local angle. 
 
And, look, there's a lot going on here. Jamaal Bowman, who's the incumbent congressman, a lot of trouble tonight. He's in a lot of trouble. Why? Well, it just starts off with his words and his voting record. Very critical of Israel. 
 
You know, this is something that's been a long time coming, especially after the events of October 7th, right? He called the initial reports of rape that occurred in Israel, quote/unquote, propaganda. He has since apologized for it. But it really lit a fire under pro-Jewish groups, pro-Israeli groups. They got behind George Latimer. A record amount that is being spent in this primary on behalf of Latimer and against Bowman. 
 
George Latimer, if you know anything about Westchester politics, is a longtime politician from there. He is a no thrills type of guy. He's built a lot of allegiances over the years, has picked up a lot of local endorsements. And as you head into tonight, if you're being honest, it be, to me, a little bit surprising of Jamaal Bowman won. We'll, of course, wait and see. There's still a lot of votes to be counted. But those early votes looking quite good for this gentleman on the right. And the fact is, yes, a lot of folks have made this about Israel, but Latimer has built a lot of local connections. A lot of those folks would say that Jamaal Bowman didn't spend the time to build those bridges. 
 
SIDNER: And Hillary Clinton putting her thumb on the scale, also backing Latimer.
 
ENTEN: Exactly right. 
 
SIDNER: All right, what's another House race that you are really interested in, besides the one from your hometown? 
 
ENTEN: Right. This one - this one makes a lot of sense, right? Let's go out west. Let's go to California - Colorado's fourth - Fourth District, the Republican primary there. Lauren Boebert. If you know anything about Colorado politics, and if you go back a year or two ago, you'd say, wait a minute, Lauren Boebert, Fourth District? She's from the Third District. She's actually moving from the Third District for an easier general election. Of course, Ken Buck retiring from the Fourth District.
 
Here's the big thing you need to know about here. Lauren Boebert has absolutely dominated the fundraising here. Can you move from a third to a fourth and extend your political life? We'll have to wait and see. But the fact that she's dominated fundraising, helped build up that name ID, especially against five other Republicans, makes that job considerably easier.
 
SIDNER: A lot easier. We don't know where all the fundraising is coming from. I'm sure it's coming from a whole bunch of different places. But that is a real humdinger right there for the other candidates.
 
ENTEN: Yes.
 
SIDNER: All right, in the Senate you've got an interesting situation because Mitt Romney, who only did one term, says he is not running for re-election. So, what's happening in Utah that you're watching? 
 
ENTEN: Yes. So, this could be a real chance that a Trump-back candidate, Trent Staggs, could get knocked off. He has Trump's endorsement. But John Curtis, a local congressman from there, considerably more moderate. You know, I'm going to be very interested to see if Curtis does, in fact, appear and win this evening, does he try and keep up sort of this not exactly pro-Trump record going on. You know, Trump has only been defeated once in this primary season so far. Tonight could be number two. 
 
SIDNER: All right. Well, we all will be watching. And I know you'll be looking at those Google alerts as they come in too.
 
ENTEN: Oh, I will be. 
 
SIDNER: All right, Harry Enten, thank you so much.
 
ENTEN: Thank you.
 
SIDNER: John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Most of his Google alerts are for Koalas. I'm just saying.
 
ENTEN: It's true.
 
SIDNER: True. 
 
ENTEN: I love the cute little bear.
 
BERMAN: New this morning, a first of its kind advisory from the surgeon general's office declaring firearm violence an urgent public health crisis. The new advisory spells out just how pervasive firearm violence is and calls for the, quote, "collective commitment of the nation to stop it. 
 
With us now, Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy. 
 
Thank you so much for being with us, sir. 
 
Why now? 
 
DR. VIVEK MURTHY, U.S. SURGEON GENERA: Well, John, gun violence is a public health crisis in America. And I've seen this for years as a doctor who's cared for patients who have struggled with the mental and physical impacts of gun violence. People have seen this in their communities. We've seen it in mass shootings as well. 
 
But in recent years, over the last decade or two, this problem has been worsening. And we have now reached the point where gun violence is the leading cause of death among kids and teens. The leading cause of death. That is something that we should never take as the new normal. There's nothing normal about that. 
 
But I also want people to understand through this advisory that the impact of gun violence is far more far reaching than we may think. Six in ten Americans are worried about a loved one being shot. Half of our kids are worried about a shooting in their school. And that's because as powerful and as painful as the toll of gun violence is in terms of lives lost, nearly 50,000 a year, we also have millions of people who are either shot and who survive, who witnessed gun violence incidents, who lose family members, or who are - who are constantly reading about gun violence in the news and hearing about it on the radio. 
 
The reverberating trauma of gun violence in our country, the infiltration of gun violence into the psyche of America, should increase the urgency of this issue. 
 <br>[08:40:05]
 
And the good news is we can take action. I lay out a number of strategies that can help us reduce this terrible toll of gun violence. BERMAN: You lay out strategies and you say we can take action. In and of itself, what does this advisory change?
 
MURTHY: So, the - it changes a few things. 
 
Number one, when our - the Office of the Surgeon General declares an issue to be a public health issue, not only does that put it squarely in the realm of public health, but it also increases - elevates it on the priority scale. This is what we saw happen half a century ago with tobacco. When the first surgeon general report was issued on that subject, it catalyzed a series of actions in communities, in schools, in lawmaking, you know, bodies all around the country that ultimately helped us reduce smoking rates from 42 percent in 1964 to less than 12 percent today. So, it prioritizes the issue. 
 
But the other two things this advisory does is it lays out the impact of this issue, particularly on our kids. Many people may not be aware that this is now the leading cause of death among kids and teens. As a parent, I strongly feel that that should increase their prioritization of this issue as well. 
 
But finally, the strategies I lay out show us that there are, in fact, solutions. Many people I've talked to around the country worry that this may be an intractable problem, that there's no way to solve it. That is not true. Thankfully, we have a series of steps we can take as a country to address it. And my hope is that this advisory will help increase the urgency of us doing so.
 
BERMAN: You don't look a day older, but - but I'm old enough to remember how when you were first nominated to be U.S. surgeon general in the Obama administration, the confirmation process was anything but easy. It was hard. It took a while. And there was opposition to you based on what you had said about gun safety and gun violence. 
 
So, you know politically how challenging this is. So, just reflect to me on this - this battle that you've been waging for well over a minute here, I mean for decades now.
 
MURTHY: Well, you know, I certainly know that the issue of gun violence has been politicized and polarized over the years, but my hope is with this advisory is that we can actually take it out of the realm of politics and put it into the realm of public health, which is where it belongs. 
 
I also think, John, that are country is in a different place than it was ten years ago. We've experienced so many mass shootings, so many incidents of gun violence in our neighborhoods and communities that it has really pervaded the psyche of our country. It has induced fear in people about regular day-to-day activities, like going to the grocery store, going to school, going to work. I hear about this all the time when I travel and talk to people. 
 
But finally, I'll tell you why I'm hopeful, John. It's because in the last few years we've seen some signs of progress. Five, six years ago, for the first time Congress allocated some modest funding for gun violence research for the first time in several decades. Two years ago Congress passed the bipartisan Safer Communities Act, the first federal legislation in 30 years to help address gun violence. These are important first steps. They can't be our last step, though. There's more that we can do. And the strategies that I lay out for Congress to consider are ones that I think can help us ultimately address the deaths and the mental health toll of gun violence.
 
BERMAN: It is a landmark action on something you have been focused on for a long, long time. 
 
U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy, thank you so much for being with us.
 
Kate.
 
MURTHY: Thanks so much, John.
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: And we do have some breaking news coming in. 
 
We're going to show you new pictures coming out of the Kenyan capital of Nairobi. What you're looking at right there is protesters have breached the parliament building, advanced, we're told, inside the building. There's also been tear gas and live rounds being fired by police - by police as these protests have been unfolding. 
 
Let's get over to CNN's Larry Madowo. He's on the ground there. 
 
Larry, bring us up to speed. What are you seeing? What's happening?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Kate, we're outside Kenya's parliament, and protesters breached the wall of the national assembly. This is what you see here that's broken down. 
 
And after that happened, we saw police using live rounds to fire at protesters who were lodged (ph) and armed (ph). You still see them back there holding firearms. 
 
And this went on for several minutes. But protesters still did make their way inside parliament, made their way inside the floor of Kenya's parliament and stole the mace. We saw them make out of the parliaments with a mace of the national assembly. And they said, if they pass this controversial finance bill, then they should sleep inside parliamentary, referring to Kenya's lawmakers.
 
There's been an extremely, extraordinary scene here with police battling protesters using water cannon and using tear gas. But the protesters kept pushing that back closer and closer. Their intention was to occupy parliament. These mostly youth protesters had declared seven days of rage. And today they had declared it a day of a total shutdown. And that's what you see here. 
 
You can still hear tear gas in the air. 
 <br>[08:45:00] Canisters getting fired repeatedly. But the protesters made it all this way. They burnt down this police truck here, which they only managed to put out a short while ago. But this is still the scene outside the national assembly with police. Lots of them in the hundreds trying to beat back the protesters. They retreat briefly and then they make their way back here. And so that's been the sound of Nairobi all day.
 
This - blasts throughout the day. It has made it sound almost like a war zone. A heavily militarized response to what is essentially peaceful protests that's protected under the Kenyan constitution. And that is the anger you see from the people here. 
 
We did see at least two bodies lying here on the floor, on the ground, outside parliament. We're waiting for an official police conformation of how many people have been killed in this, how many people have been wounded. But CNN has seen two bodies lying on the floor. And this, the sign of the dramatic day we've had outside Kenya's parliament today. And this shows no signs of stopping.
 
Kenya's interior ministry said all these protests have to end by 6:30 p.m. So we're about just under three hours away from that. But these people are determined, beating back police, bringing banners. They say they are peaceful protestors. All they want is for President William Ruto to listen to them and to avoid over taxing them.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. And I want you to remind people what is at the core of these protests. 
 
MADOWO: All right.
 
BOLDUAN: How it has escalated so - how it has escalated to this - to this point. 
 
You also spoke with the half-sister of former President Barack Obama, who was there protesting.
 
MADOWO: That is right. And that was extraordinary because she generally stays away from politics, Auma Obama. But today she said she needed to join these young people of Kenya who are protesting. 
 
I want you to listen to what she told me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AUMA OBAMA, HALF-SISTER OF FORMER PRESIDENT OBAMA: I'm here because, look at what's happening. Young Kenyans are demonstrating for their rights. They're demonstrating with flags and banners. I can't even see anymore. We are being teargassed. We are being tear -
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: That was an extraordinary scene to see Auma Obama out here on the streets with these young people. We're back here on the streets. And you see that tear gas getting fired here. And so many of these protesters not intimidated by that. Some of what we hear sound like live rounds here outside parliament. We're not exactly certain that there's a distinctive sound between what is tear gas and what is live ammunition. 
 
And we have seen police used live ammunition here using rifles, and AK-47. And protesters saying, we are peaceful, stop shooting us. Stop killing us.
 
We've seen one man - one young man lying on the ground there. And some of them even getting very close to the police. That's what happens, tear gas getting fired again and again trying to beat back these peaceful protesters who do not seem to be moving too far away from that. As it happens, they keep coming back and daring the police to make sure that the government of President Ruto hears what they're saying about how difficult life has become for them because of the high cost of living. And they fear that if this finance bill passes, it's going to be even more expensive for them.
 
BOLDUAN: My goodness. 
 
Larry, please continue reporting. Please stay safe. The situation completely unfolding still as Larry is on the ground and watching it altogether, 
 
Larry, thank you very much.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:52:52]
 
BERMAN: All right, new this morning, officials in New Mexico say more than two dozen people are still missing in the city of Ruidoso following the fires there. Recovery teams and cadaver dogs are now combing through miles of charred debris. At least two people died last week. Hundreds of homes and businesses were destroyed. 
 
So, this morning, a temporary election worker in Arizona has been arrested for allegedly stealing a security fob and keys for a voting tabulator in Maricopa County. Court documents show the suspect, Walter Ringfield, was captured on surveillance video grabbing the security fob and keys and placing them in his pocket. They were later found in his home.
 
So, lawyers for Hunter Biden are once again seeking a new trial citing a procedural issues. This is weeks after his conviction on federal gun charges. The move does come one week after a previous motion was quickly withdrawn by his defense team without explanation. 
 
This morning, a dam in southern Minnesota is on the brink of collapse after heavy rain caused major flooding. Authorities say the dam is under pressure from all the water and the debris, which you can still there. Residents living downstream have been put on notice. And in Iowa, severe flooding has led to evacuation orders for two towns. Officials were worried a levy on the Little Sioux River might break. One levy along the river has already been breached.
 
And an update on a story were first reported last hour. The Florida Panthers are still the Stanley Cup champions after a dramatic game seven win over the Edmonton Oilers. Florida initially looked like they would sweep the series easily after racing to a 3-0 series lead, but it was not easy, though ultimately they did it. It is really hard to come back from a 3-0 deficit unless you are playing the New York Yankees.
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER: And you've just upset them all. Thank you so much, John.
 
Three drag performers are headed to Capitol Hill today to advocate for greater protections for LGBTQ people. Their visit comes as several state legislatures have passed or are considering bills that are targeting their communities. The ACLU is saying its tracking 523 anti- LGBTQ bills across the U.S., 39 of which were already passed into law. 
 <br>[08:55:06]
 
The queens are calling on lawmakers to pass a national equality act. It could amend the 1964 Civil Rights Act to provide explicit protections for LGBTQ individuals. 
 
Joining me now is drag queen and activist Brigitte Bandit. 
 
Thank you, darling. Wow, what a wonderful look you have this morning. I know that took you some time. 
 
BRIGITTE BANDIT, DRAG QUEEN: Thank you so much.
 
SIDNER: I'm curious, for you, first of all, what this day means to you, and, second of all, have both Democrats and Republicans agreed to meet with you? 
 
BANDIT: Yes. We will be meeting with both Democrats and Republicans. And I'm really excited to go speak with all of our lawmakers about the attacks that we're seeing on our LGBTQ community. It's so important to talk about and to discuss protections for our queer community. 
 
SIDNER: Can I let you listen to the current sentiment that's being shared by former President Donald Trump, who, of course, is running for re-election.
 
Here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I'm going to take care of our Capitol. On day one I will sign a new executive order to cut federal funding of any school pushing critical race theory, transgender insanity, and other inappropriate racial, sexual, or political contents onto the lives of our children. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: In those three things he mentions what he calls transgender insanity. If he's voted in as the next president, what will that mean to you?
 
BANDIT: We already see so many attacks on our queer community. I already don't feel safe in my own hometown just dressed in drag like this. And it's very scary for queer people to exist in a time where we see this kind of rhetoric being pushed by our lawmakers and the people who should care about other issues that actually affect the American people other than attacking our community, our LGBTQIA+ community. It's very disappointing and I hope for better for our country.
 
SIDNER: I want to go to the states now, because a lot of states are considering bills, or have passed laws, that have taken away some of the protections that the LGBTQI community had. In Kentucky, in particular, there is a bill aimed at drag queens. The bills authors says it's only to regulate sexually oriented businesses and protect children from seeing sexually explicit things. 
 
Here's what one Kentucky legislator said about that move.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS FUGATE (R), KENTUCKY STATE REPRESENTATIVE: How can we be for somebody dressing up like a lady, or like a woman, and reading books to our kids? What in the world are we thinking?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: What would you say to him and the author of the bill there? 
 
BANDIT: I would say that drag is not inherently sexual. I could be in a full length, long-sleeved hot pink gown reading a book about Dolly Parton and they'll still think that something is inappropriate, although it is absolutely not appropriate. We exist as actors do in movies where they can do rated R movies and they can also do rated G movies. But you don't take content from the rated G movies to say that the rated R movies are inappropriate for the actor who has been in both, right? And drag and art exist on the same level of appropriateness. And we don't deserve to be attacked like this. 
 
SIDNER: I want to ask you about some of the history of this. The USO and the Red Cross hosted drag shows during World War II to help boost the troops. Thousands of black and white New Yorkers attended drag balls in Harlem in the '20s. They were really popular in the '50s and '60s. They were called female impersonators. 
 
And we also have this from the '90s. Rudy Giuliani dressed in drag and Donald Trump not seeming to mind as they took part in a skit between the two of them. There's Donald Trump back in the day. 
 
What do you think the catalyst has been for the sentiment to change? Do you think that it is something that's happened, like the fear of transgender kids in bathrooms, or transgender athletes in sport? Have those things changed the sentiment where you have some people saying this is just too much to accept?
 
BANDIT: Well, trans people and trans kids have always existed. We've existed for decades. And we haven't seen this kind of rhetoric be amplified until right now. When we see that things like gay marriage is more widely accepted by Americans, they're looking to target more marginalized queer people, and so they're targeting transgender people because they are more of a minority group that they can use to push misinformation and this rhetoric to gain their own political power.
 
SIDNER: Brigitte Bandit, thank you so much for dressing up for us this morning and coming on the show. Appreciate it.
 <br>[09:00:00]
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts now.