Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Death Toll Now 5, 200 Plus Injured By Car Attack In Germany; Trump Taps "The Apprentice" Creator To Be UK Special Envoy; Some Starbucks Employees On Strike Ahead Of Christmas; The Last Surviving Traditional Pasta Factory In Naples. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired December 22, 2024 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN HOST: Welcome to all of you watching us around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom. Mourners grieved victims of Friday's Christmas market attack in Germany, as police released the name of the lone suspect. 
 
After a U.S., government shutdown is narrowly averted, Washington braces for what's next as Donald Trump prepares to begin his second term, and it's not always quantity, but quality. We'll take you inside an Artisanal Pasta shop in Italy. Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber. 
 
We are learning more about the man accused of driving a car into a crowd at a Christmas market in Germany. A U.S. based activist group called Rare Foundation USA has identified him as Taleb Al Abdul Mosen. Germany's Interior Minister says he's an Islamophobe. Police say he was in court late Saturday, where a judge ordered him held in pretrial detention. Meanwhile, police have increased security at Christmas markets across the country, and some Germans say they won't let Friday's attack keep them away from holiday events.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UWE PAUL, CHRISTMAS MARKET VISITOR: Personally, I'll say no, because I'm convinced that we've been living with situations like this since the bright side market attack at the latest, or even if we think back further, Al Qaeda Madrid, or whatever else there has been. We have been living with this risk for decades, and that's why we should certainly be more vigilant, but not let it spoil our fun. 
 
RENATE PAUL, CHRISTMAS MARKET VISITOR: I see it as a positive thing, because it naturally increases the feeling of safety, but I agree with my husband that we shouldn't allow ourselves to be restricted, because if we did the will of the other person would basically prevail, and we don't want that. We want to go on with our lives and live our culture the way we want to. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNHUBER: CNN's Barbie Latza Nadeau joins us live from Rome with -- Barbie, I understand we have some new information coming in about the suspect. What more can you tell us?
 
BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: Yeah, you know he was sat in front of a judge last night. Was remanded into pre detention -- pretrial detention, charged with five counts of murder and several counts of attempted murder. We know there are several people who are still very seriously injured, and we're waiting some details about their condition. 
 
You know, we also are learning a little bit more as the investigators peel back the layers about this particular attack. You know, it was very much not the usual suspect. He was, as you said, an Islamophobe, as described and you know, let's listen to for a minute to what the public prosecutor had to say yesterday about him. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HORST NOPENS, MAGDEBURG'S PUBLIC PROSECUTOR: As per the current information we have, it would seem that the backdrop to this attack is, might be, how can I put this dissatisfaction with the way that Saudi Arabian refugees in Germany, it could be that possible. But what is sits behind that, anything more deeply rooted is the subject of the investigation. We need to examine that and ascertain it more thoroughly. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NADEAU: And you know, one of the other things that's been -- that has emerged, let's say, in the course of this investigation, is that Saudi Arabia actually warned German officials about this man. Let me tell you a few of the details of that. There were multiple warnings to German officials since 2007 about this man. 
 
He had radical views of varying kinds, including anti-Islamic and he was known to have harassed Saudi's abroad who opposed his own views. And he was considered a fugitive by Saudi Arabia. In fact, they asked for his extradition in 2007 in 2008 Germany refused that concern for his safety, if he would have gone been sent back to Saudi Arabia. 
 
So, as we learn that about him, the man who lived in Germany, worked as a doctor -- you know investigators will be looking at -- you know his social media postings about the warnings he may have -- you know given, you know, he rented this car that ploughed through this Christmas market. 
 
And you know, one of the big concerns now is it could have been prevented, and if so, why wasn't it prevented? And all of those things are part of the ongoing investigation, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, so many questions. Barbie Latza Nadeau thank you so much. Appreciate it. Well, immigration is expected to be a key issue in Germany's snap election scheduled for February. These anti- immigration protesters were in Magdeburg on Saturday in Germany's anti-immigration, far right alternative for Deutschland, or AFD Party, has had strong performances in recent regional elections. 
 
The AFD is currently second in national polling. Germany's center right alliance is first, and that's a pairing of Germany's two dominant political parties, the Christian Democrats and Christian socialists. Jan Philip Burgard is Editor-in-Chief of Germany's Welt TV, and he joins us now via Skype from Hamburg. 
 <br>[03:05:00]
 
Thank you so much for being here with us on this sad day. Before we get to the political implications of the attack, I know people around the world are sending their condolences to Germany. The mood in the country must be -- must be summer. Anytime anything like this happens, of course, but even more so, so close to Christmas. 
 
JAN PHILIP BURGARD, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, WELT TV: Yes, absolutely Kim. So, for the vast majority of Germans, sadness prevails at the moment, and it's overshadowing the anticipation of Christmas. But when Chancellor Scholz came to Magdeburg and spoke of an insane act yesterday. 
 
There were shouts of, get lost, and this might be symbolic for a rising anger within the German society as a whole, because hour by hour, as your reporter has said, more details come to light that show that the crime could have been prevented. 
 
On the one hand, there were the posts on the internet in which he had virtually announced an act, and there was the fact that he had already been convicted in 2013 for threatening to commit crimes in public, and yet he was recognized as an asylum seeker in 2016 so this makes many people angry because they see it as a failure of the state. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah. So, some of that anger is targeted against authorities, some of the anger against immigrants, and we've heard German President Olaf Scholz saying that Germany can't let hatred win. But I was struck by some of the people that CNN interviewed after this, who were already calling for Germany to close its borders. So, take us through the political reaction that you've been seeing in Germany. 
 
BURGARD: Yeah, so I think we will see a debate on migration. Since the start of the migration crisis in 2015 the majority of German society has been very open minded and helpful. But part of the truth is that the country is reaching its limits, and after attacks such as those at the Christmas market in Berlin in 2016 and now in Magdeburg, about many Germans are asking themselves, do we even know who exactly we have let into the country? 
 
Do our police even have the means to monitor potential threats? And have Chancellor Merkel and Charles done everything they can to protect our country. And these questions will also play a role in the heated face of the general election. 
 
BRUNHUBER: So even though the alleged perpetrator in this case was an avowed Islamophobe, he actually supported the far-right party. The motive was totally different from that attack you mentioned in 2016. But that attack kind of shifted the debate on asylum seekers, because the attack in the -- in that case, the attacker was an unsuccessful asylum seeker from Tunisia. So, what effect might that have this time around, specifically now
 
 when there's a debate in Germany on the future of so many Syrians who sought refuge from the Assad Regime. 
 
BURGARD: So, as you're talking about the political debate so far, most well-known politicians have been reluctant to comment and have only expressed their condolences, presumably because much of the background is still unclear. But in the next days, I think either side could try to instrumentalize the attack for themselves. 
 
The right-wing populist party, AFD could see the attacker as a migrant who has become radicalized for everyone to see on the internet and to whom the security authorities have not taken out of circulation. And the left could see the attacker as a critic of Islam who even sympathize with the right-wing populist party, AFD. So, I think this attack therefore has the potential to further polarize the country. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, certainly we'll wait to see what the political implications are, but certainly from a human point of view, just such a tragedy. We really appreciate you speaking with us. Jen Philip Burgard in Hamburg, Germany, thank you so much. 
 
BURGARD: Thanks for having me, Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: The U.S. military says it launched strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen's capital on Saturday. The attacks hit missile storage and command-and-control facilities operated by the Iranian backed group. The U.S. also took down several one-way drones and anti- ship cruise missiles over the Red Sea for Houthis of targeted U.S. warships and merchant vessels. 
 
The strikes are part of ongoing efforts to disrupt and degrade Houthi operations in the region that comes after Tel Aviv was hit by a ballistic missile fire from Yemen early Saturday. An Israeli military official is now confirming that several attempts to shoot down the missile failed Israel's Emergency Service says at least 16 people suffered minor injuries from broken glass. 
 
Protesters are turning up the pressure on Israel's government to free hostages in Gaza and quit. Hundreds of people rallied in Tel Aviv on Saturday demanding a comprehensive deal to bring hostages back. Officials have touted progress in ongoing talks, but also said a deal is far from guaranteed, but a family member of a hostage who died in captivity said time could be running out. 
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZAHIRO SHAHAR-MOR, NEPHEW OF HOSTAGE WHO DIED IN CAPTIVITY: We are hearing various reports over the -- over -- from officials saying that a hostage deal will be reached any day, any -- moment later, we hear the opposite report from those same officials saying no break-through is in sight, and placing the blame on Hamas. We must make this point clear. Our hostages do not have time for these games. They will not survive the winter in their weakened state. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Protesters also called on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government to resign, with some saying it has made terrible decisions for Israel. Netanyahu is currently embroiled in a corruption trial which has divided Israel.
 
Ukraine is showing that its military drones can do damage deep inside Russia. So that was the moment there a Ukrainian drone hit the city of Kazan Saturday according to Russian state media, eight drone strikes were reported, including six in residential areas with no casualties. The attack temporarily closed a local airport, which is now back up and running. 
 
Kazan is located about 800 kilometers, or nearly 500 miles East of Moscow and even further away from the Ukrainian border. Kyiv didn't acknowledge the strikes, but it did say there is an essential military factory in Kazan. 
 
CIA Director Bill Burns will soon bid farewell to his job, but before that, he is doing the same to his partners in Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announced on Saturday that Burns paid him a visit during his final trip as Head of the Agency, Zelenskyy said he will likely meet Burns again when there is a lasting peace in his country. 
 
The CIA official told CNN that Burns has been in Ukraine more than a dozen times, but those trips are usually undisclosed. Donald Trump takes over as U.S. President next month, and he's tapped John Ratcliffe as the next CIA Chief. 
 
The dust is settling on Capitol Hill after U.S. lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle scrambled to reach a deal to avoid a government shutdown, but a source says Donald Trump seemed frustrated yet resigned that a deal left out a key demand. CNN's Julia Benbrook has more. 
 
JULIA BENBROOK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's been a chaotic week here in Washington, with a lot of uncertainty surrounding the stop gap funding bill. The House passed it just hours before the deadline on Friday, and the Senate passed it shortly after avoiding a shutdown that would have had a widespread impact just before the holidays.
 
President Joe Biden signed the bill into law Saturday morning, calling it good news for the American people. In a statement, Biden said, quote, this agreement represents a compromise, which means neither side got everything it wanted, but it rejects the accelerated pathway to a tax cut for billionaires that Republicans sought, and it ensures the government can continue to operate at full capacity. 
 
This solution comes after a lot of back and forth on Capitol Hill. Earlier in the week, President-Elect Donald Trump came out against the initial bipartisan deal in response to Trump's opposition House Republicans dent that deal, frustrating Democrats both here at the White House and on Capitol Hill. 
 
The GOP led House then tried and failed to pass a Trump backed plan that would have included a two-year suspension of the debt limit. That's something that received pushback from members on both sides of the aisle, with Democrats arguing that effort would help Trump pass his tax plan in the future. 
 
So, what's in the bill that was signed into law on Saturday? It will fund the government until mid-March, March 14th, to be exact. It includes 100 billion in disaster relief and 10 billion in farm aid. It has not addressed the debt limit. Now following the vote in the House, both House Speaker Mike Johnson and Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries framed this final agreement as a win. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): I was in constant contact with President Trump throughout this process. I spoke with him, most recently about 45 minutes ago. He knew exactly what we were doing and why? And this is a good outcome for the country. I think he certainly is happy about this outcome as well. 
 
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): House Democrats have successfully stopped extreme MAGA Republicans from shutting down the government, crashing the economy and hurting working class Americans all across the land.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENBROOK: In the New Year, Republicans will hold a trifecta with control of the White House, the Senate and the House. But the outcome of this funding fight gives us a glimpse at some of the challenges they will still face as they try and enact part of Trump's agenda. At the White House, Julia Benbrook CNN.
 
BRUNHUBER: Donald Trump is adding yet another television figure to his administration, and this one helped make Trump a household name. Reality TV Producer Mark Burnett has been tapped to be the president- elect's special envoy to the United Kingdom. Burnett created Trump's hit show "The Apprentice". He's also behind programs like "Survivor and Shark Tank". Trump says Burnet brings a quote unique blend of diplomatic Acumen to the role. 
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
Well, we're now in the final stretch of Joe Biden's Presidency, and with that comes questions about his legacy. CNN's Senior Data Reporter Harry Enten runs the numbers on how Americans are viewing the outgoing leader's job performance. And spoiler alert, they're not good. 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: It's a sad end to a very long career, is the way that I would put it. You know, we can see it. You know quite well. Here look approve of Joe Biden's job performance. Fox News is the best of the group at 41 percent you got Quinnipiac at 38 percent Monmouth at 35 percent that's a record low for Monmouth polls of Joe Biden's approval rating.
 
And you look at Marquette at the bottom of this list, at 34 percent. This just isn't good. This is not the way I think anyone would want to go out. But the numbers are the numbers, and right now, Joe Biden is hovering near the lowest approval point of his presidency. In fact, the lowest if you believe Monmouth or Marquette.
 
BRUNHUBER: And President Biden has about four weeks left in office. Police in Texas say a man drove a pickup truck into a shopping mall after leading officers on a 30-kilometer car chase. At least five people were injured, four of them hit by the truck as it traveled through this J.C. Penney Department Store, a state trooper shot and killed the suspect. Police had attempted to pull him over on the highway because they suspected he was driving while intoxicated. 
 
Now, with the holiday season in full swing, large corporations are facing growing push back from employees. Just ahead a look at the latest worker strikes. See you after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: All day season, labor strikes are expanding across the U.S. The Teamster's Union is looking to pressure online retailer Amazon for concessions. Warehouse staff at a facility in Staten Island New York walked out on Friday, joining fellow union members on the picket lines at seven other Amazon locations. And some Starbucks employees are also taking a stand, trying to leverage the impact of a walk out. CNN's Camila Bernal reports.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: One of the things that these Starbucks employees are saying is no contract, and no coffee. There are a number of locations that are currently closed here in Los Angeles, in Chicago and in Seattle, but what union members are saying is that if they don't have a contract negotiation and agreement by Christmas Eve, then there are more stores that could potentially close from coast to coast. 
 
Now, Starbucks has been negotiating with the union since February, but the union just wanting to get this contract finalized before the end of the year. A lot of the employees saying that they are the face of Starbucks. Take a listen to what one of the employees told me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAI KRAWCZENIUK, STARBUCKS BARISTA: When you think about Starbucks, you think about your Barista, you think about the person who you talk to every morning, who makes you smile, who makes your drink and says, hey, I hope you have a wonderful day. We are the face of Starbucks. But we aren't treated like it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
BERNAL: And Starbucks saying that they are disappointed about this strike, but also saying there is minimal disruptions. It's similar to what you're hearing from Amazon, where some of the workers there are also on strike, but Amazon saying your packages will get delivered. 
 
Now it is a very different scenario at Amazon, because some of these employees, according to Amazon, are considered third party contract workers. So, these employees at Amazon are fighting to be recognized as employees are fighting for better wages and they're fighting for better working conditions. 
 
Of course, they're asking Amazon to come to the table, but Amazon saying they don't need to come to the table because they don't see them as those employees. Now, what you're also having is other people join in on the strike. So, on Saturday, employees from one of the warehouses in Staten Island joining the strike. They are Amazon employees. 
 
But what Amazon is challenging is the idea that they are part of this union. So, there sort of this back and forth on whether this union is recognized or not. Of course, the workers wanting to be recognized. And in a similar fashion as to the Starbuck's employees saying they want to get people's attention during the holiday season, Camila Bernal, CNN, Bourbon, California. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Dozens are dead in Southeastern Brazil after a crash involving a passenger bus and truck on Saturday. The 45 people on the bus, 38 are confirmed dead, including the bus driver. The rest were transported to a local hospital and remain in critical condition.
 
Officials are investigating the cause of the crash, but witnesses say a granite block hit the bus, causing the driver to lose control and hit the truck. When the bus erupted into flames, the truck driver reportedly fled the scene. Authorities said the crash is the worst to occur on Brazil's federal highways in nearly two decades.
 
Well, on baseball no one could touch the uncatchable Ricky Henderson, the 10-time all-star and two-time World Series Champion, died Friday at 65. Henderson holds the career record for stolen bases with more than 1400. He also hit 297 home runs. With this combination of speed and power he's considered the greatest lead-off hitter in the game's history. Henderson's family called him legend, on and off the field. 
 
Played for nine teams four times with his hometown, Oakland A's. When he broke Blue Rock stolen base record, he proclaimed himself the greatest of all time. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: What could be a very happy holiday for some lucky lottery ticket owner or owners here in the U.S., the Mega Millions Jack Pot for Christmas Eve has soar to $944 million or 429 million, if it's taken as a lump sum, and that is the largest prize the lottery has ever offered. In December, the Mega Millions organization has had a series of enormous jackpots this year, including one of more than a billion dollars. Now chances of winning the top prize are about one in 300 million. 
 
A group of Santas in Argentina revved up for a worthy cause, dozens of Santas traded in reindeer hooves and a slave for two wheels this year, a procession of around 100 bikers cruise down the streets of Buenos Aires, bringing joy to kids celebrating Christmas in the hospital. They stopped at various hospitals in the capital to deliver gifts and spread Christmas cheer to the kids. 
 
They also broke out into song and dance with the children, creating an unforgettable holiday for the young patients and their families, that's great. All right. Thanks so much for joining us. I'm Kim Brunhuber here in Atlanta. Show time is Next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: Well, that beloved staple pasta is often made lovingly by hand at home by many people in Italy and around the world, but mass- produced pasta is threatening the smaller shops that cherish the old methods. CNN's Antonia Mortensen went to Setaro, a nearly centuries old factory in Naples, to learn more about the craft. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANTONIA MORTENSEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This was Italy's first pasta production hub where pasta producers, known as Pastafici started making artisanal pasta commercially and exported it all over Italy and made it famous across the world. 
 
VINCENZO SETARO, THIRD-GENERATION PASTAIO: On this photograph, you can see the main street of Torro Annunziata.
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
You can notice the wide sidewalks. They weren't built for people to walk on but for drying pasta, as pasta in those days was dried out on the street of the town or on terraces. My grandfather bought this establishment in 1939. Torro Annunziata was the capital of pasta in those days. There were more than 110 Pastafici at the time thanks to the microclimate and due to its geographic location.
 
MORTENSEN (voice-over): Setaro Vincenzo still uses the same technics passed on from his grandfather. First Setaro is mixed through the water it then flowed through a funnel and then into mould to form the pasta shape. The pasta is then placed on racks and moved through a furnace, after which it is taken to special drawing rooms. SETARO: They make 200 kgs of pasta in one hour. A modern machine makes 40,000 kilos of pasta. 
 
MORTENSEN (voice-over): Today, Setaro is the only past producer that survived here. Industrial mass production in other parts of Italy forced the rest to close.
 
SETARO: We use quality ingredients, Italian durum wheat and whole artisanal process of making the pasta.
 
MORTENSEN (voice-over): Setaro pasta is exported and eaten all over the world at gourmet establishments by preserving their family's artisanal techniques Vincenzo Setaro has been able to keep their art of making pasta alive. Antonio Mortensen, CNN Naples.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: What could be a very happy holiday for some lucky lottery ticket owner or owners here in the U.S., the Mega Millions Jackpot for Christmas Eve has soar to $944 million or 429 million, if it's taken as a lump sum, and that is the largest prize the lottery has ever offered in December. The Mega Millions Organization has had a series of enormous jackpots this year, including one of more than a billion dollars. Now chances of winning the top prize are about one in 300 million. 
 
A group of Santas in Argentina revved up for a worthy cause, dozens of Santas traded in reindeer hooves and a slave for two wheels this year. A procession of around 100 bikers cruise down the streets of Buenos Aires, bringing joy to kids celebrating Christmas in the hospital. 
 
They stopped at various hospitals in the capital to deliver gifts and spread Christmas cheer to the kids. They also broke out into song and dance with the children, creating an unforgettable holiday for the young patients and their families, that's great. All right. Thanks so much for joining us. I'm Kim Brunhuber here in Atlanta. Show time is next. 
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over): Formula One is a global spectacle. It is an incredible Motor Sport Series. It is the Championship. It is the pinnacle of motor sport.
 
PHIL DUNCAN, F1 JOURNALIST: There are 10 teams, 20 drivers, and only one of those at the end of the day gets to win, and only one at the end of the year gets to take the World Championship. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is on top of the pyramid of all motorsport. It's the best racing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 21 countries, 24 races, as many as 4000 people traveling to all the different races. How they managed to transport all the people around the world and all the hardware, the cars, the machinery, the parts. It's quite a remarkable achievement. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Formula One is the fastest car, the best drivers, the most incredible locations, the most incredible circuits, cities, entertainment, music, celebrities. It's just wow. It's fast, it's furious. It's not to be missed. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, it's one red light, two red lights, three red lights, four red lights, five red lights, and then a pause, and then bang. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over: So, this week we're in Qatar for the penultimate round of the season. Last week we were in Las Vegas, and then obviously, next week, we go to Abu Dhabi for the final race of the season. We've had three races in a row. 
 
DUNCAN: So, I think for the for the teams, it's just about being able to, you know, get all of the bits that they need from one event to the other. Vegas is 8000 miles away from here, so in just a matter of days, they've had to fly all of that over. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Please, ladies and gentlemen, please put your hands together for Lewis Hamilton. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wednesday in Qatar there'll be obviously the teams will start arriving from Las Vegas. 
 
LEWIS HAMILTON, FORMULA ONE CHAMPION: I mean, the biggest adjustment is the journey here, and it's the quick turn-around. So just think, like we finished the race on Saturday. The guys in the garage worked so hard to strip the car completely to just the cockpit. 
 
DUNCAN: This will be the third edition of the Formula One Championship here in Doha.
 
LIAM PARKER, CHIEF COMMUNICATIONS &amp; CORPORATE RELATION OFFICER F1: We've done a 10-year deal here, which shows the commitment from us, but also the promoter. And it's a great circuit. It's one of the best palettes in the sport. The infrastructure here is incredible, but the tracks also great for racing. 
 
HAMILTON: The track is very smooth, but it's all medium and high speed, so you're pulling that G force constantly throughout the lap. So, it's very challenging. 
 
ABDULRAHMAN AL MANNAI, PRESIDENT, LUSAIL INTERNATIONAL CIRCUIT: Our goal was to set a new standard when it comes to motor sports facilities, as you can see here, the way we designed it. We made it more home, we made it more sustainable, we made it greener, and we knew what teams wanted when they come to circuits. 
 
NEIL HANLEY, TRACKSIDE OPERATIONS MANAGER: Yeah, all good, yeah. I'm Neil Hanley I'm the Trackside Operations Manager for Money Grand as well Fun Team. I'm effectively in charge of the operation of the team, moving it from the UK to track and around the world on a weekly basis. 
 
So, when we arrive at track, the hospitality building behind you as a shell. And same as the garage, the garage is an empty shell with a painted floor, the air, F8 the sea F turns up, and then it transforms into what you can see today. 
 <br>[03:35:00]
 
From Thursday night, obviously, then that's the pit stop practice on Thursday night. Cars are complete. Pretty much the car is built on by closer play Thursday night. The team in general is about to show 300 strong now split over three countries, England, America and Italy. On Trackside, we have around 90 personnel tracksides, when you think of the Williams, Mercedes, Austin Martin, around 1000 strong. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How's it going? 
 
JOE MICKLEWRIGHT, RACE TEAM COORDINATOR, AUSTIN MARTIN F1 TEAM: Yeah, not too bad yourself. So, my name is Joe Micklewright. I'm the race Team Coordinator for Aston Martin Formula One team. Yeah, Jim and -- here Thai Gurus. They look after all the tires for us, 40 sets, 20 sets per car. 
 
A race team coordinator looks after many things. So, we're involved in looking after getting up all the freight here, whether that's by road or sea or by air. And then I spend a lot of time maintaining the garage, making sure it's all up to scratch, and it looks nice and tidy for all our guests and sponsors. 
 
Fernando is just getting his seat checked in there, just checking everything's all right with the seat in the car for the weekend. And then all the mechanics you can see behind me are just working on the car, just making sure it's all good to go. 
 
KEITH BRUCE, PRESIDENT, F1 EXPERIENCE: I'm Keith Bruce President of F1 Experiences. Our tag line is the closest you can get to Formula One. Hit lane always looks shiny on a Thursday night. System got this fresh look and feel to it. It's awesome. 
 
So, our mission is to deliver unprecedented experiences for our clients. That means taking them behind the scenes, giving them exclusive access, an unprecedented way to see Formula One that that perhaps they've never thought of doing before. We want to de mystify the sport, make it easier to understand.
 
They have this entire place themselves. You know the ability for them to come in and walk the length of the pit lane in a relaxed environment, so they can take as much time as they want, enjoy themselves. And then when they've seen all the cars, and they've seen all the mechanics and all the action that's going on behind us here in the garages, they can wander out onto the grid, and they're always going to take photos on the grid and then get on one of the five bed trucks and do a tour of the of the circuit. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, Ferrari.
 
DUNCAN: The fan engagement has definitely increased in Formula One when you go to a race now, you obviously see them doing the parade, going around on busses, and being able to take in -- you know more immersive experience than they had done in the past.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Guests love it because they get to see the entire circuit. There's an expert host that's talking about what's going on, giving them insights on each curve, each turn, every chicane. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's not just a racing event anymore. It's entertainment, its music, it's celebrity. The access is broader too -- from the more traditional fan base to a whole version of group of people. So, the evolution has been significant. It's been fast. It's been rapid, and now it's our duty to maintain that and grow it into the future. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:40:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You if you're -- you know a mechanic or race team coordinator. It's all about just, you know, getting everything, all those final bits of the jigsaw, together for this penultimate race of the season. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This Week in Qatar, is a sprint weekend, so we only have one free practice period on Friday, and then we're straight into a sprint qualifying session. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now, if they have a sprint event, that means we have sprint qualifying on a Friday night, and then Saturday there's a sprint event. And then Sunday is the main Grand Prix.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The sprint events they have six of those in the year, and that's something they brought in the last few seasons, really, because they -- the idea is that the sprint events will appeal to us, to a younger fan base. So different events across the world will have different fan zones in the city, so if you not going to the race, you can still -- you know get a glimpse of Formula One at these fan events. 
 
We're providing free entry for our visitors. We're broadcasting the race on our screens. Visitors will experience live simulation, Formula One experience and custom-built RC car racing. The benefit behind having the fan zone and -- is being in the center of Doha, which provides easy access for our visitors via Doha Metro and our free tram. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Very proud, you know, very happy with Formula One coming to Qatar. It's helping us in many ways when it comes to tourism and sports tourism, especially now people know Qatar, and we think Formula One will be the vehicle for tourism in the next 10 years.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Only, you name it, this man has been involved. Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Champions Club Mr. Omar Saudi (ph) is here. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are in the F1 Experiences Champions Club, which is a VIP hospitality club that we operate at every race at Formula One around the world. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is really nice. This is the nicest champions club I've been in. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We'll have guest speakers come and speak to our guests here at the champions club and talk about the action. Our guest speakers will speak about what they just saw, maybe in qualifying, or what to expect at the race-on-race day.
 
BRUCE: When we first started F1 Experiences, it was basically the grand stand and the -- club, and there really wasn't much in between. There was barely anything in between. And so, what we've done with F1 Experiences is created a series of grand stand packages, fan packages that allow our fans to sit in their favorite grand stand and take in experiences that they want to see and that they've chosen from our menu of offerings to our more exclusive fan who wants that VIP experience. Who wants to sit in the hospitality clubs, whether that's the paddock club or the champions club or even our F1 garage and see Formula One from that vantage point. So, we need to make sure that we have the ability to deliver on fans, irrespective of the amount of money they want to spend. 
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
But in each and every case, whatever they choose to spend, we make sure that it's a great value. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, you know, as a team boss, it's always good that the drivers do exactly as you tell them, because there may be --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Formula One can be a bit intimidating for a new fan, but equally exciting for an experienced fan. So, we try to make sure that we deliver on the expectations of both the new fan, who's coming in, just wanting to know what's going on, trying to understand the sport from a brand-new perspective.
 
But the core fan, the average fan, is also one that we want to make sure we're looking after, because they're the bread and butter of Formula One. They've been following the sport for years, watching it on television, going to Formula One races, and now they get the unique opportunity to experience Formula One through F1 Experiences, and see the sport from a completely different perspective. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A Saturday on the sprint weekend, we go into the sprint race in the afternoon for the boys and girls who work in the garage. It's more exciting. It breaks the weekend up. And yeah, so it's a racing weekend. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On Saturday, the mechanics will -- they'll be doing any more setup changes that the engineers have asked for, and just making sure the cars sort of a one ready to roll out the door. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's amazing, really, the detail that goes into the Modern-Day Formula One car. And, you know, we don't really see it, do we? It's only if you're a member of that team that you see all the little bit of moving parts. It's mind blowing that all those different bits and parts then put onto that car to be able to go out and race and to compete in a race. 
 
So, these mechanics, you know, these members of the team, they're well versed in what they've been doing. They've been doing it for years, and only though they really know how to put those little bits together to complete the jigsaw, to get those cars ready. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's hard to beat Sunday, which is obviously the Grand Prix. Yeah, I think that's the best day of the weekend for me, or peak day of the weekend. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The atmosphere is -- it's unlike any other major sport that you see. It's amazing to watch the fans, whether they're brand new, first time ever, and their eyes are wide open to what they're seeing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're coming from South Africa. And yeah, now, right, and we just came For the Formula One. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yeah, I'm from Sydney. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're always happy to see them all, you know, smiling and having fun, enjoying the day. For us -- you know at the end of the day, this is what we do and what we want to see. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Being a fan at the event you know, there's tons of different things going on, different ways to immerse yourself in the race.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Come from Iceland, and we took the Formula One in Qatar. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think the sport generally is becoming more international in its appeal. And if you were to go back 10 years ago, you would turn up a race, you would watch the cars, you would go home. Now, the promoters are putting huge effort into a list celebrity act, music acts, festival experiences, something to keep the fans here throughout the day. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I came from the Philippines. It's a 10-hour flight. I travel that far just to watch them. This is my first Grand Prix, and I'm so excited. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I think what that's doing is attracting more and more people into these destination locations. And that's why it's important having a city like Doha so close to where we are here, because there's somewhere to come and visit, some international destination. People can get in and out very easily, and there's lots to do, and having stuff around the event itself that keeps people engaged. 
 
You are seeing that kind of night and day transition across all of our promoters, where younger, more diverse, engaged audiences coming for the whole experience, rather than just the pure racing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm from Libya, but born and raised here in Qatar, and I'm here at the Formula One race because I'm an avid fan of Formula One. I love it. I've had to travel for Formula One before. I've been to the Netherlands Race -- and I loved it there, and I'm happy to have it here in Qatar. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And the fan experience in Formula One is obviously different to many other sports. It's something that's growing, and obviously it will continue to grow, but you see that every race we go to here in the Middle East, how the interest is increasing.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Shows no sign of slowing down with Sunday's Qatar Grand Prix providing one of the most action packed of the 23 races of the campaign so far. The staff was stripped of pole, but it was the four-time world champion who took the victory his ninth win of the season. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As soon as the race finishes, check a flag drops. We're into getting the tires back to Pirelli, taking down the garage panels, just tidying up cables, all sorts of stuff. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're just -- we've basically just got the whole garage, more or less everything that needs to be flown onto the next race gets packed away properly in its boxes and then gets put into its aircraft pallet and flown away. 
 
Everyone here knows their job, knows their role, knows what they should do at certain times, and whether that's on the car, or if they're breaking down the garage on a Sunday night, everyone knows what they should be up to. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It can take six to seven hours to get everything packed down, packed away, literally just to roll on to the next race. 
 <br>[03:55:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The boys and girls in that garage -- you know the they know the cars inside out. They know the freight inside out. They know where everything gets parked, placed, positioned, itemized and then placed away in the -- in the air freight containers. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Time away is massive, over 288, days a year away from your family to put two cars on a truck, 24 times a year, that's what I don't think the paying public, those who sat on the sofa, who haven't got family members or loved ones you know within a team, they you probably wouldn't see or know the amount of time that we spend on the road. Yeah, the fast-paced life of being in one country one week, fly into the next country the next week. Yeah, and just repeating, eat sleep, eat sleep, repeat. 
 
We will pack up again Sunday evening into Monday morning. We will be done by five in the morning, boys and girls then we'll go back to the hotel. The air freight will leave on arriving Abu Dhabi at 06:00 hours on Tuesday morning.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And you start all over again. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All over again never gets old. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think I can say with confidence that the future of Formula One is going to be very safe, very sound, very solid. We've seen huge growth. We need to maintain that. I think the racing next year is going to be hugely exciting. 
 
There's a huge amount to look forward to, but at the same time, all the plans we have about making the sport a greater opportunity place for people to come and work to get involved in that sport, and also the plans we have in sustainability, but the racing is going to be key to that. And I'm very hopeful for what we've got coming next year and in the future years.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Having Formula One here is going to help grow the sport, this sport in Qatar. And actually, we have seen some effect happening ever since we hosted Formula One. We have a lot of young children interested in the sport. When they come here and see their heroes, they become inspired and they want to be involved.
 
UNIDENTIIFED MALE: Hoping in years to come, we'll see sport more and more represented the outside world, and more and more young kids from, no matter where you from, no matter what you look like.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)