Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Panic Grows in Rafah Over Looming Israeli Ground Offensive; In Pakistan, Coalition Government Deal Excludes Imran Khan's Party; Powerful Winter Storm Blankets U.S. Northeast With Snow; Mother-in-law of Lakewood Megachurch Shooter Says Daughter-in-law Had Mental Illness That Caused Her to Become Violent; U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin Released From Hospital; CDC Expected to Ease Isolation Guidance for Covid-19; First Death Linked to Alaskapox; Oregon Health Officials Say Pet Cat Likely Infected Its Owner With Bubonic Plague; Biden Campaign Joins TikTok Amid National Security Concerns; Animal Shelter Offers to Neuter Your Ex for Valentine's Day. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired February 14, 2024 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:20]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States, around the world and streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead, by a margin of just one vote, U.S. House Republicans succeed in impeaching Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. We will bring down -- we'll break down where things could go from here.
 
A special election in New York nets a big win for Democrats, giving them one more seat in the U.S. House. What the vote could signal for the 2024 race for the White House?
 
And in the wake of Donald Trump's NATO threats, European leaders prepare for the possibility they will have to go it alone.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta, this is CNN NEWSROOM WITH ROSEMARY CHURCH.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us.
 
And we begin in Washington, where the historic impeachment trial of Alejandro Mayorkas is unlikely to go anywhere in the Democrat- controlled U.S. Senate. The upper chamber will take up the matter after the Republican-led House voted to impeach the homeland security secretary. Tuesday's vote is only the second time in U.S. history and the first in nearly 150 years that a member of the president's Cabinet has been impeached. And the final tally came down to just one single person.
 
CNN's Melanie Zanona has details from Capitol Hill.
 
MELANIE ZANONA, CNN CAPITOL HILL REPORTER: The House voted tonight to impeach Alejandro Mayorkas, the Homeland Security Secretary, after failing to do so on the House floor last week.
 
The final vote tally was 214 to 213. So, it was a very narrow margin here in the House. And three Republicans crossed party lines to vote against these articles of impeachment for Mayorkas. That includes Tom McClintock of California, Mike Gallagher of Wisconsin, and Ken Buck of Colorado. Those are the same three Republicans who voted against impeaching Mayorkas last week.
 
But we should note there was one key difference here tonight, and that was Steve Scalise, the House majority leader. He has been absent from the Capitol. He's been out battling cancer receiving treatments. But he was back tonight, and I got a chance to sit down with him for an exclusive interview ahead of the Mayorkas vote, where he talked about how important his vote was, and just how narrow the margins are in the House right now.
 
But he disputed the idea that the House is rushing through this vote ahead of a special election in New York tonight, where a key seat is up for grabs.
 
Now, in terms of the Mayorkas impeachment, it's going to head to the Senate. But we are being told, it's dead-on arrival in the Senate. With Senate Republicans and Democrats collectively saying that they just don't see the support and the appetite in the upper chamber to impeach Americans.
 
Republicans have accused him of mishandling the situation at the southern border, and the flow of migrants that have crossed at the southern border. But some Republicans saying that, that is a policy dispute, and it does not rise to the level of impeachment.
 
So, the Senate has some options. They can vote to just entirely dismiss the trial. Or they could have a trial and go through with the process. But either way, very clear that even though Alejandro was -- Mayorkas was impeached in the House. He is not going to be convicted in the Senate.
 
Melanie Zanona, Capitol Hill, CNN.
 
CHURCH: U.S. President Joe Biden is urging the House to immediately hold a vote on a $95 billion foreign aid package that the Senate passed on Tuesday. It would provide desperately needed military assistance for Ukraine and its defense against Russia, as well as money for Israel, Gaza, and the West Bank.
 
The bills future looks grim in the House where Republicans speaker, Mike Johnson has signaled he probably won't even bring the measure to a vote. President Biden says it's vital for the House to act.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The Republicans in Congress who think they can oppose funding for Ukraine and not be held accountable, history is watching. History is watching. History is watching. Failure to support Ukraine at this critical moment will never be forgotten.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Now, to New York's Third Congressional District, where Democrat Tom Suozzi will win a special election with national implications.
 
Republican Mazi Pilip conceded about 90 minutes after the polls closed, calling Suozzi to congratulate him.
 
And you can see, Suozzi with 54 percent of the vote, Pilip with 46 percent.
 
Suozzi victory cuts into the very narrow Republican majority in the House of Representatives. This race is also seen as a bellwether for November's presidential election and this special election was call to replace Republican Congressman George Santos, who was expelled from the House last year.
 <br>[02:05:08]
 
He has pleaded not guilty to multiple federal charges, including wire fraud, money laundering and theft of public funds.
 
To Los Angeles now, and Michael Genovese, president of the Global Policy Institute at Loyola Marymount University.
 
Thank you so much for joining us.
 
MICHAEL GENOVESE, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: Always my pleasure, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: So, a huge victory for Democrats in that special election in New York with a win for Tom Suozzi, narrowing that GOP razor thin House majority.
 
So, how significant is this victory? And what if anything, might it signal for the November election?
 
GENOVESE: It was an upset, first of all. It was a seat held by the Republicans; the Democrats flipped it. The Democrat got 54 percent of the votes. It was a comfortable victory. It was a victory in the suburbs. And it was a question of who is going to win the suburbs in 2024. That's an indication that Democrats can do well there, it was a good test.
 
And one of the most interesting things, I think, is that the Democrat won, not because of the issues, but in spite of the issues. The issues seem to favor the Republicans. Immigration was the most important issue. The border is very important, and crime.
 
The Democrat found a strategy for dealing with that, which is to confront those issues, just talk about them openly and not try to hide from them. And so, that may be a bellwether in that it indicates that the Democrats now may have developed a strategy for the '24 campaign, which is to go against Trump, to confront the issues not to run away from them, and also run against the do-nothing Congress.
 
So, that could be very significant because the Democrats were looking for a message and a strategy. Maybe, it will come out of the New York race.
 
And you mentioned immigration. House, Republicans impeached Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Tuesday night; succeeding on their second try.
 
It is an effort to punish the Biden administration for its immigration policy, but this will be killed off in the Senate. So, what was achieved, given Republicans rejected a bipartisan bill that would have fixed many of the problems Republicans have complained about at the southern border?
 
GENOVESE: This is a pyrrhic victory for the Republicans in the House, at least. They can't pass legislation to solve problems. And so, you've got Ukraine funding, you've got money for aid for Israel, you've got immigration, you've got the border, but all these issues that they are not dealing with. And so, instead, they go for a kind of frivolous stunt, a show that has no real political impact. It's all symbol, very little substance.
 
In the process, however, they are degrading and cheapening impeachment. The standard that we've always had is constitutionally, high crimes and misdemeanors. There are no high crimes or misdemeanors here, it was a policy disagreement.
 
And so, by dumbing down what it means to impeach, they opened a door kind of a Pandora's box that in the future could come back to haunt them. And so, I'm not sure as much of a victory, you know, the long and winding road of impeachment went from Nixon to Mayorkas. It went from high crimes and misdemeanors to partisan bickering. And from there, I don't think the Republicans are no longer going to win. I think that's going to come back to haunt them.
 
CHURCH: And Meantime, on a more global scale that U.S. President Joe Biden accused former President Donald Trump of bowing to Russia's President Putin, when he threatened NATO member nations, saying he wouldn't defend those who didn't pay up. Should they come under attack? And even encourage Russia to do whatever the hell it wants -- his words.
 
So, President Biden called Trump's comments dangerous, dumb, shameful, and un-American. How will this likely play with voters do you think, and of course, with NATO allies?
 
You know, Biden was understating in my view, he was a president who was rooting for Russia to attack our NATO allies. That was unbelievably naive of him or dangerous of him.
 
NATO has been around for 75 years. It was the great alliance that successfully fought communism. It was a great military, political, and cultural unification of the U.S. and the European powers. And we, the U.S. and NATO, developed the post World War II structure of the international economy and international political alliances.
 
That now is breaking down because Donald Trump says he will get out of NATO. He's not going to apply Article V, which is what would come to the aid of any NATO country that's attack.
 <br>[02:10:03]
 
And so, you know, it just makes no sense. This is an issue Biden should be pushing, should be ring on. The Democrats should buy ads with that -- with Donald Trump's quote, and just spend as much money as you can, letting the American people see what Donald Trump said.
 
CHURCH: Michael Genovese, many thanks for joining us. Appreciate it.
 
GENOVESE: Thank you, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: They are being described as serious and productive. But so far, talks in Cairo aimed at reaching a deal to pause the fighting and free the remaining hostages in Gaza have not yet arrived at a breakthrough. That is according to a U.S. official, who says the negotiations will press on.
 
CIA director Bill Burns travel to Cairo for those talks. He discussed the situation in Gaza with Egypt's president, who also met with Qatar's prime minister. The talks come as international concern and opposition grows over Israel's expected ground offensive into the southern Gaza City of Rafah.
 
The U.N. Secretary General warns such an operation would have devastating consequences. Meantime, Israeli officials say they have obtained CCTV footage showing Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar, inside a tunnel below the southern Gaza City of Khan Younis with his wife, children and another unidentified man.
 
The IDF claims the video is from October 10th, though CNN cannot verify the video shows Sinwar or when it was recorded. Journalist Elliott Gotkine is following all these developments for us. He joins us now live from London. Good morning to you, Elliott.
 
So, what is the latest on those negotiations for the release of hostages in exchange for a pause in fighting in Gaza?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN JOURNALIST: Rosemary, no breakthrough but no breakdown either. These talks are ongoing even if the high-level delegation that Israel sent to Cairo has now returned. The main sticking point, we understand from a U.S. official is Hamas' demands for the ratio for the number of Palestinian prisoners and the type of Palestinian prisoners that it wants released in exchange for freeing the more than 100 Israelis that it kidnapped as part of its terrorist attacks of October the 7th.
 
Now, you recall we were talking about Hamas's demands last week, which Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu decried as being as being delusional. These included demands for the release of all women, minors, elderly, and sick Palestinian prisoners. That part doesn't seem too controversial. The controversial bit, seems to be the additional 1,500 Palestinian prisoners, including a third of whom, who are serving life sentences, including for killing Israelis or taking part in attacks that led to the deaths of Israeli.
 
So, that seems to be one of the main sticking points. But Prime Minister Netanyahu and his government under pressure not just from the Biden administration, which seems to have pushed Israel to take part in these talks in the first place, but also, of course, from the families, who still have loved ones who have now been more than four months in captivity in the Gaza Strip.
 
The main group representing the families of those still being held hostage in Gaza, telling the government do not return until everyone comes home, the living and the dead, a reference to the bodies of dead Israelis that Hamas is still holding as well.
 
For its part, according to some reports, including the Wall Street Journal, Israel, pressuring Hamas, with the threat of this potential ground invasion in Rafah, which seems to be implying that, that invasion could be predicated or could be paused or called off in the event of a successful hostage negotiation.
 
Now, we can't confirm that. But certainly, there are a number of things going on right now. And it would also seem and we've heard this from Hamas already that if Israel does go in, in the ground operation, Hamas has said that, that would destroy hostage negotiations.
 
So, there's a lot of things going on right now, which needs to be balanced, but certainly for now, no breakthrough just yet, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: Elliott Gotkine, many thanks. Joining us live from London.
 
And coming up, after Donald Trump's comments encouraging Russia to attack NATO members, Europe is looking to secure its own weapons supply chain in case it can't depend on the U.S. in the future. Back with that and more in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:18:15]
 
CHURCH:  -- is waiting anxiously to see whether the U.S. will provide more arms and ammunition. Other European leaders are watching too. Thanks to a gridlock in Congress over an aid bill and incendiary comments by former U.S. President Donald Trump. They are making plans in the event they may not be able to rely on steadfast us support in the future.
 
Germany is ramping up its own production of arms for Ukraine and for Europe's protection. Fred Pleitgen explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A German-made Leopard 2 tank, hitting Russian positions on the Eastern Front.
 
This video, provided by the 21st mechanized brigade showing they say how effective Western weapons are on the battlefield.
 
VEDMIN, TANK COMMANDER, UKRAINIAN ARMED FORCES (through translator): Every infantry scared of a tank. Tanks go out and work and they fire frightfully. They fire straight into their faces, and they don't even have time to think about what to do.
 
The Ukrainian say they need a lot more Western Arms and ammo.
 
But Republicans have blocked U.S. military aid in Congress, and they are likely nominee for President Donald Trump even suggested he might encourage Russia to attack NATO members who didn't meet military spending guidelines.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I would not protect you. In fact, I would encourage them to do whatever the hell they want. You got to pay.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Those comments literally have Europeans up in arms. Now, ramping up weapons production for Ukraine and for themselves.
 
Germany's chancellor visiting a major arms plant with Denmark's prime minister, trying to downplay Trump's comments.
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, CHANCELLOR OF GERMANY (through translator): NATO is of essence for the United States, for Canada, for European countries, and we cooperated so long since World War II.
 <br>[02:20:04]
 
And this is really something which is a good alliance for the future. We stick to it, the president of United States sticks to it, and I'm sure the American people will do so.
 
PLEITGEN: But Denmark's prime minister says she has no illusions U.S. support for European NATO members no longer seems certain.
 
METTE FREDERIKSEN, DANISH PRIME MINISTER: No matter what will happen in U.S. this year. I think the conclusion has to be written already now that Europe needs to be stronger and we need to do -- we need to be able to do more on our own.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): And ammo production is the biggest concern as NATO Allies struggle to help Ukraine make up for massive shortfalls, while facing overwhelming Russian firepower.
 
PLEITGEN: This is one of the most important things for the Ukrainians to stay in the fight. They are not only outmanned. They're also outgunned. And the biggest problem they have is a lack of ammunition.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): They broke ground for a new ammo plant here, and the company CEO says they will drastically increase ammo production quickly, especially for artillery. ARMIN PAPPERGER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, RHEINMETALL: They need 1 million to 1.2 million, and if I give them 700,000, I think there are also some other producers in Europe, we have to give them something. So, 700,000 is at the moment, the maximum that we can produce.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): And the Ukrainian say they need the maximum their allies can give with or without the U.S. to keep their forces in the fight against the Russians. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Unterluss, Germany.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Still to come, fear grips Rafah as Israel prepares for an expected ground offensive in the southern Gaza City. We will look at the dilemma so many already displaced Palestinians are facing right now.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:25:39]
 
CHURCH: Back to our top story this hour, a U.S. official says talks in Cairo aimed at freeing the remaining hostages in Gaza and pausing the fighting there were productive and serious on Tuesday, but still no breakthrough and the negotiations will continue.
 
And Israeli official said their delegation was on its way back from Cairo. But the families of those hostages are urging them to stay until a deal gets done. Saying, "do not return until everyone comes home, the living and the dead."
 
Ruby Chen is the father of Itay Chen, an IDF soldier missing in Gaza. He joins me now from Tel Aviv. Thank you so much for being with us at this difficult time. And you and I spoke at the start of this nightmare for your family. Now, these hostage negotiations in Cairo are entering this critical stage.
 
How are you feeling about those negotiations right now?
 
RUBY CHEN, FATHER OF ITAY CHEN, IDF SOLDIER MISSING IN GAZA: Yes. First, I don't think we will have the opportunity to speak 131 days after its inhuman, the ordeal that we, the families need to go through. And realigning the statement that you just said, we the families believe that they need to stay together, the sides, discussed, negotiate with the support of the United States, Qatar, and Egypt, and get a deal done.
 
The fact that the hostages are in danger for such a long time, with no sign of life, no medical attention, which is against any international law is something that we do not think should continue one day longer.
 
CHURCH: And these hostage negotiations come ahead of a planned Israeli ground assault in Rafah in the south, where it's believed the hostages may very well be held, what are your thoughts on that imminent military offensive? CHEN: So, I'm not, you know, at a position to be able to comment on it because I do not have full information on that. I'm a civilian. I'm a dad. I'm a U.S. citizen. But what I can say, I think is the people of Israel are united, is that behind the fact that Israel and the IDF will not stop until all of the hostages are back home.
 
And the way to stop this fighting is for Hamas to find a way to release the hostages, and the killing from both sides could stop.
 
CHURCH: And what do you see is the main hurdle in those negotiations at this juncture?
 
CHEN: I still think the lack of faith between the sides is still an obstacle where I think the parties involved the negotiator, the facilitators, the U.S. Egypt, Qatar, need to be able to provide the guarantees that each sides feel comfortable in moving to the next stage.
 
We have been talking and as well as I, I've been to Doha, talking to the prime minister, thanking him for his efforts, but there must be more to be done in order to get to a stage that we could get to a ceasefire and get the hostages out.
 
CHURCH: And what do you think is the next stage of this?
 
CHEN: Being able to hug my kid back. That's the next stage. Keep the eye on the ball, nothing else.
 
CHURCH: And what have you learned about your son's condition, now more than 130 days in captivity?
 
CHEN: Unfortunately, basically, nothing much. And that again, looking at the international law, the Red Cross has a permanent mandate from the international community to be able to visit hostages in areas of conflict. And let's see if medical attention. That has not happened.
 <br>[02:30:02]
 
And that is against any protocol that we know all of the civilized nations that have signed on to that agreement. And we would expect with the intervention of the international community to convey to Hamas that this is unacceptable. This is a red line that you crossed. And without supplying proof of life, medical attention, then there should be consequences associated with that.
 
As we are speaking, in the Hague, is a session with the International Prosecutor to prosecute Hamas for crimes of war that they have done, including not enabling hostages to receive medical attention. And I urge the international community to get behind these claims that are against any type of international law and explain to Hamas -- signal to Hamas, this is a red line. This is unacceptable. To be part of the family of nations going forward, you need to be abiding to international law.
 
CHURCH,: Ruby Chen joining us from Tel Aviv. Thank you so much for talking with us and we wish a speedy return of your son and all the hostages there in Gaza. Many thanks for talking with us.
 
CHEN: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: Well, as Israel's planned offensive in Rafah looms, the UN Aid Chief is warning it could lead to a slaughter and leave humanitarian efforts, in his words, at death's door. With more than a million Palestinians taking refuge in that city, fear is clearly starting to set in as CNN's Nada Bashir tells us, and a warning, her report contains some disturbing images
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER (voice-over): Seemingly endless chaos in this field hospital in the Rafah. Doctors, volunteers crammed into this small tent, delivering whatever care they are still able to provide. Overnight on Tuesday, another round of airstrikes on a city once thought to be the only safe place left for more than a million displaced civilians. Just 24 hours prior, airstrikes carried out by Israel as part of an operation to secure the release of two hostages killed more than 100, according to the Palestine Red Crescent.
 
The bombardment of Rafah has left widespread destruction in its wake and countless families in mourning, a warning of what could lie ahead for civilians here, should Israel launched a full-scale ground offensive in the city. Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has pledged safe passage for civilian evacuations, but a military plan has yet to be provided, and the prospects has heightened fears among Gaza civilians.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE, GAZA CIVILIAN (through translator): The nights are so difficult here in Rafah. Where else are we supposed to go? Where else are we supposed to move?
 
BASHIR (voice-over): With nowhere left to turn, some families are now fleeing Rafah to return to parts of central Gaza, whatever belongings they have left stacked above cars.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE, GAZA CIVILIAN (through translator): We are tired of fleeing from one city to another. We are so tired. I just hope the world will stand with us, will have mercy on us.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): North of Rafah, the nightmare this embattled region has endured is evident. The airstrikes here are still relentless. The suffering of the Palestinian people unending.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE, GAZA CIVILIAN (through translator): Everyone has been killed, my grandchildren, (inaudible) look at him. He was only two years old, this grandfather says. He was the best thing in my life.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): So much pain in this grandfather's distraught cries, but there is little time to grieve. Funerals here are swift and constant.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE, GAZA CIVILIAN (through translator): We are peaceful people. We were just in our homes. We have no involvement in politics. We just want the war to end.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): Diplomatic efforts to secure a prolonged truce have so far failed to deliver concrete results. The CIA's Director now in Cairo for talks with the Egyptian president, Israel's intelligence chief, and the Qatari prime minister. One official calling the talks, "difficult, but nudging forward."
 
But warnings of an expected ground offensive in Rafah could place those talks in jeopardy, as Hamas threatens to pull out if Israeli troops enter the city.
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, Cairo.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:38:00]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. Two of Pakistan's major political parties say they are forming a coalition government after no clear winner emerged from last week's election. Not included in the power- sharing deal, the party of Former Prime Minister Imran Khan, even though candidates affiliated with his PTI Party gained the most votes. Khan who is in jail warned against creating a government with what he called stolen votes. Amid this deeply polarized political environment, the country is struggling to recover from an economic crisis and grappling with rising militant violence.
 
I want to bring in CNN's Sophia Saifi, who joins us live from Islamabad. Good to see you, Sophia. So, how did it get to this point and what comes next?
 
SOPHIA SAIFI, CNN PRODUCER: Well, Rosemary, it's basically what you said. The independent affiliates -- independent candidates affiliated with Imran Khan's party did not win enough seats, according to the Election Commission of Pakistan, and neither did the other two major parties, the PPP and the PML-N, to form a majority and government. So what's happened ever since election results were announced is that there has been a scramble for -- from all of these other parties to form a coalition government.
 
Lots of back and forth, lots of different deals being made. But the one thing that Imran khan has made clear, even though his -- the candidates allied with his party won the most seats, he has said -- his party has said that there has been rigging. There has been manipulation of the votes and they're claiming that they in fact have won a majority. So, Khan has said that he will not be allying. He's -- he doesn't want to be part of this deal. He doesn't want to ally with the PML-N, his other four (ph) and neither does he wanted to ally with the PPP.
 
So, what that leaves us with is the PML-N and the PPP, so Shehbaz Sharif who is the former prime minister, the most recent prime minister being put forth as the candidate for prime minister, and the PPP, the party of Former Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto Zardari announcing that they will be supporting the candidate of prime minister.
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
SAIFI: So, what we are potentially going to see is, is that there will be this cobble together coalition that will potentially form government. But at the same time, you have another huge block of candidates affiliated with Imran Khan's party, who are claiming that they've won more seats. Would that lead to more protests? They've taken to the courts. Would that lead to more complaints to the Election Commission of Pakistan? Will they eventually end up being a strong opposition to what will potentially be a week coalition?
 
We will just have to wait and see because like you said, there are many issues plaguing Pakistan at the moment, raising inflation, record numbers of unemployment. There are huge concerns internationally and domestically with regards to Pakistan's future in a very turbulent neighborhood. So how -- what, how all of these pieces, where they fall in place, we will just have to wait and see. But it is looking likely that, at the moment, the PML-N and PPP, and four other major parties of this country are happy with Shehbaz Sharif potentially being the prime minister of Pakistan. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: Sophia Saifi, joining us live from Islamabad, many thanks.
 
And thank you for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. For you International and Max viewers, "World Sport" is coming up next. And for those of you here in the United States and in Canada, I'll be back with more "CNN Newsroom" in just a moment. Do stay with us
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:30]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back to our viewers here in North America, I'm Rosemary Church.
 
A powerful nor'easter blanketed parts of northern United States in snow Tuesday. It was New York's snowiest day in two years, with more than eight centimeters falling in Central Park. Other areas around the city saw even more buildup, thousands of customers in Connecticut, New Jersey, and beyond lost power, and schools in multiple states canceled classes due to the snow. Conditions made travel difficult as well, with more than 250 car accidents reported in New Jersey according to the state's governor. And more than 1,000 flights canceled across the U.S. with the majority out of airports in New York, Boston, and New Jersey according to FlightAware.
 
Officials in Austin, Texas say a car crashed into a hospital emergency room Tuesday evening, killing the driver and injuring at least five others, some of them critically. Video shows people running to escape the danger, smoke filled the building as the vehicle's tires continue to spin and screech. Austin Police say the incident does not appear to be an intentional act, and there is no threat to the general public. The mother-in-law of the woman who opened fire in a Texas megachurch on Sunday is speaking out about the shooter's mental illness. She says her daughter-in-law should never have had access says to firearms. Ed Lavandera has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The mother-in- law of the 36-year-old woman who opened fire on the Lakewood megachurch here in Houston says, this event was a completely preventable horror. Police say 36-year-old Genesee Moreno showed up here on Sunday, opened fire, and that's where two off-duty officers shot and killed her just after she unleashed a barrage of gunfire inside of the church.
 
The mother-in-law of Genesee Moreno details an extensive list of mental health issues and efforts that the family underwent for several years trying to get her help. In a Facebook post, the mother-in-law says that Moreno suffered from a form of schizophrenia that caused her to be violent. Investigators here have been saying that they also have an extensive history of mental health issues. But despite all of that, what frustrates the mother-in-law according to her Facebook post, is that she was legally able to obtain the weapons used in all of this.
 
Investigators also say that they had found anti-Semitic writings that belonged to Moreno, but the mother-in-law says that she believes who -- the mother-in-law is Jewish, but she does not believe that that hate aspect of this is what is central and what caused this horror at the Lakewood church in Houston. She believes that this is much more an issue with Genesee Moreno's mental health issues that she struggled with for years. And also, her son as far as we know, the seven-year- old son who was shot in the head, remains in critical condition.
 
Ed Lavandera, CNN, Houston.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The U.S. Defense Secretary is now out of the hospital and working from home. Lloyd Austin was admitted for a bladder issue on Sunday and treated without surgery. He is expected to return to the Pentagon later this week. Austin had surgery for prostate cancer in December without telling the public or the Biden Administration. This time, the White House was informed.
 
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may change its guidance for people with COVID-19 this spring. According to "The Washington Post," the potential new guidelines would not require people to isolate if they have mild symptoms and no fever for 24 hours. CNN Health Reporter Jacqueline Howard has details
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: We are hearing that the CDC's COVID-19 isolation guidance could be updated this spring to focus more so on patient's symptoms rather than giving a blanket recommendation to isolate for a certain number of days. Now, currently, if you test positive for COVID-19, the CDC recommends to isolate for at least five days. But we are were hearing the agency may loosen that recommendation to be that if you haven't had a fever for least 24 hours without the help of medication and your symptoms are generally mild or they're improving, then you don't have to isolate.
 <br>[02:50:00]
 
HOWARD: Now, these are just discussions that are happening as we are now living in a world where there is some community immunity. But the head of the CDC says, right now, "There are no updates to COVID guidelines to announce at this time." If this shift in guidance does happen, it would align with what some states like California and Oregon already recommend on a local level, and it would align with what is already recommended for people who have other types of respiratory illnesses, like the flu or RSV. So, this will be interesting to watch in the coming months.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And that was CNN's Jacqueline Howard reporting. Health officials in Alaska are reporting the first fatality linked to a recently discovered virus called Alaskapox. The state's health department says seven infections have been reported since 2015. The illness is often mild and symptoms include skin lesions, swollen lymph nodes, joint or muscle pain, and possible fever. Alaskapox is primarily found in small mammals, including red squirrels and other rodents. The human cases have likely been caused by contact with animals.
 
In Oregon, a bite from a pet cash likely caused its owner to contract bubonic plague. The Deschutes County Health Office says the disease has -- was caught early and the pet owner poses little risk to the community. No update on how that cat is doing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says about seven bubonic plague cases are reported each year, believe it or not. Humans usually get infected after being bitten by an animal or flee carrying the bacteria. Symptoms include swollen lymph nodes, fever, headache, and shills. If caught early, plague can be easily treated with antibiotics.
 
Well, U.S. President Joe Biden is facing backlash for his campaign joining TikTok over the weekend, even though the Chinese-owned app is banned on many government devices. It's a move to reach out to younger voters, but critics say it is a security risk and are accusing the president of hypocrisy. CNN's Brian Todd has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): National security hawks ramping up their criticism of President Biden's re-election campaign for launching a TikTok account and posting its first video on Sunday.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Jason Kelce or Travis Kelce? 
 
JOE BIDEN, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Mama Kelce, I understand she makes great chocolate chip cookies. TODD (voice-over): In the lighthearted Super Bowl themed video, the president dodges some questions about the game, and jokingly evades one on whether he had rigged the NFL season.
 
BIDEN: I'd get in trouble if I told you.
 
TODD (voice-over): It finished with an inside joke, a Dark Brandon meme. The video quick to rack up more than 7 million views and the ire of critics. Republican Senator Josh Hawley posting on X, "Biden campaign bragging about using a Chinese spy app, even though Biden signed a law banning it on all federal devices." 
 
President Biden did sign that law in December of 2022.
 
MARGARET TALEV, DIRECTOR, DEMOCRACY, JOURNALISM &amp; CITIZENSHIP INSTITUTE, SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY: I do think they're going to face some cries of hypocrisy.
 
TODD (voice-over): The campaign video was not created or posted using government devices. Republican Senator Tom Cotton still called it shameful. TikTok is owned by a Chinese company that analysts say could be beholden to the communist government in Beijing.
 
LINDSAY GORMAN, FORMER WHITE HOUSE SENIOR ADVISER FOR TECHNOLOGY AND NATIONAL SECURITY: I think it's a very concerning national security move. We are normalizing a platform that is essentially accountable ultimately to the Chinese Communist Party.
 
TODD (voice-over): A federal security review of TikTok's foreign ownership is underway. And U.S. government employees are barred from having the app on their work devices for fear of malware, spying, or --
 
JAMES LEWIS, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES: They can collect your personal data. They can put it into their huge databases and they can figure here at what they want to do with it later.
 
TODD (voice-over): TikTok rejects those concerns.
 
SHOU CHOW, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, TIKTOK: We will protect the U.S. user data and firewall (ph) it all from all unwanted foreign access.
 
TODD (voice-over): TikTok says more than half of Americans use the popular app for sharing short videos of everything from goofy stunts to food and dance challenges. But could the Chinese communist government secretly use it to try to influence elections in the U.S.?
 
GORMAN: A foreign actor could place its thumb on the scale and maybe promote certain content that's favorable to a candidate that it wants to see in the White House, and demote content that's its favorable to a candidate it doesn't want to see.
 
TODD (voice-over): But many TikTok users are young millennials who an 81-year-old candidate might need to reach.
 
TALEV: If you're trying to turn out young voters and you're trying to message around issues that they are not getting from other news sources and you're not on it, it is a lost opportunity. And so, that's what Biden and his team are balancing.
 
TODD: White House officials would not address criticism of the president doing the TikTok video, referring all questions on that to the Biden campaign. The Biden campaign said using TikTok is proof of the campaign's commitment to using new, innovative ways to reach voters.
 <br>[02:55:00]
 
TODD: It did add that it is taking extra security precautions. But so far, the campaign has not addressed criticism of hypocrisy.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: A mystery cracked, researchers have discovered that a roman egg from almost two millennia ago still contains its liquid. They say it is the first of its kind, no other naturally preserved eggs are this old. A micro CT scan showed the egg's yolk and white were still present. The egg was first discovered in 2010 in England during an excavation by Oxford Archaeology. It is still unclear what species laid the egg, how about that?
 
Well, this Valentine's Day, you can show your ex-boyfriend or girlfriend just how much you care about them and help control the feral cat population at the same time, because a New Jersey animal shelter is offering to "Neuter Your Ex." Here's how.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEN SIERANSKI, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, HOMEWARD BOUND PET ADOPTION CENTER: For a $50 donation, really anyone can send in the name of one of their exes and what we'll do is we'll name community cat after that person, first names or nicknames only. And then, that community cat will be spayed or neutered, vaccinated, ear tipped and then released back out into the community
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And thanks to that promotion, there are a whole bunch of four- legged Jeffs, Mikes, Ians and Tylers roaming the streets of New Jersey. There's even a cat named Gaslight Guy out there. The idea has been so popular, it's now being extended beyond Valentine's Day.
 
And thank you so much for joining us this hour. I'm Rosemary Church. I'll be back with more "CNN Newsroom" in just a moment. Do stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)