Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: White House Considering Whether Israel Crossed Red Line; Tlaib Says Voters Aren't Going to Forget in November; Politics After a Trump Verdict; Idea of Trump-Oprah Voters. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired May 28, 2024 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:31:18] 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back. 
 
The White House now considering whether a red line was crossed when an Israeli strike on Rafah killed at least 45 displaced Palestinians at a tent camp. President Biden threatened earlier this month to suspend the delivery of some offensive weapons if Israel entered population centers in Rafah. 
 
Here was the response from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Despite our best effort not to harm those not involved, unfortunately a tragic error happened last night, and we are investigating the case.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Netanyahu told the White House that the explosion from the strike ignited a fuel tank nearby and started a fire that engulfed the tent camp. 
 
Our panel's back. 
 
Kate Bedingfield, I just want to remind our viewers what the president told our Erin Burnett about his red line in terms of continuing to provide weapons here.
 
Let's watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: If they go into Rafah, I'm not supplying the weapons that have been used historically to deal with Rafah, to deal with the cities, to deal with that problem. We're going to continue to make sure Israel is secure in terms of Iron Dome and their ability to respond to attacks like came out of - the - in (INAUDIBLE) recently. But it's - it's just wrong. We're not going to - we're not going to supply the weapons and the artillery shells used that have been used since -
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN ANCHOR: Artillery shells as well?
 
BIDEN: Yes, artillery shells.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: So, there you have it. I mean, this is, obviously, a continually difficult, first of all, humanitarian situation period. But also political situation for the president. There are going to be a lot of questions this morning about what are they going to do in response to what happened in Rafah. What do you think is on the table for them? 
 
KATE BEDINGFIELD, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Yes. Well, I mean, look they're clearly going to undertake a serious investigation. They're going to hear what - how the Israelis explain what happened here. I think, you know, ultimately, they have a broader goal of ensuring that Israel has what it needs to defeat Hamas. I think that is the president's north star on this. 
 
But I also think that it's very hard for the president to say what you heard him say, and then for there to not be action in response to something like this when there you see - are seeing so many civilian deaths. I think, you know, for the president, he has to think about, you know, when he says something, backing it up with action. And I think it's hard to make a declarative statement like he made to Erin Burnett, which I think was, you know, born out of a desire to see fewer civilian deaths and to see this conflict move to a place where people are not suffering in a way that they're suffering right now. But I think when you say things like that, you then have to back it up. 
 
So, it is complicated. And, obviously, terrible things happen in war. And I'm sure they will listen and hear out the Israelis on what happened here. But, you know, from a public perspective, from a communications perspective, I think it's very hard for him to not take some action here.
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
David, what do you see as the imperative here for the president?
 
DAVID FRUM, STAFF WRITER, "THE ATLANTIC": The president has been the best friend Israel has ever had in a conflict situation. And I know them. I come from the pro-Israel world and there are many who doubt it. But I just - I invite people just to cast their minds back to where - how - how little Lyndon Johnson did during the six-day war. Richard Nixon did a lot more of the October war, but he never gave direct kind of U.S. involvement. 
 
There have been American warships shooting down missiles aimed at Israel. There has been - the president has visited Israel twice during this conflict. No president has ever done anything like that. Ronald Reagan never visited Israel at all during his presidency. So, there's going to be some chafing and some - at - at the pushback that is probably going to come, but it needs to be remembered, this is all within the context of a president who has been at Israel's side through this terrible war. 
 
HUNT: Doug.
 
DOUG HEYE, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Yes, I think of the term red lines and the words mean things. 
 <br>[06:35:02]
 
When I worked for Eric Cantor in the House, our office and John Boehner's office were working with the White House because the president, President Obama, said, if you cross a red line with chemical weapons in Syria, there'll be consequences. And what happened was the White House then sort of walked away from all of this and left us hanging. 
 
And we've seen global implications on that. It's - we've - Vladimir Putin has learned this. Certainly Hamas has learned this as well. That quite often when red lines are crossed, there are no consequences. So, what Biden does here has international impact, but also very real domestic impacts. He's certainly being targeted by the far left of his base. Michigan's a very good example of that. He's in a no good situation here. No win situation. 
 
HUNT: Yes. So, speaking of Michigan, Rashida Tlaib appeared at the Peoples Conference for Palestine on Saturday. And she had this to say. We'll talk about who makes up that conference here in just a second. But she had this to say on stage. 
 
Watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. RASHIDA TLAIB (D-MI): It is disgraceful that the Biden administration, and my colleagues in Congress, continue to smear them for protesting to save lives no matter faith or ethnicity. It is cowardly. But we're not going to forget in November, are we?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: So, we're not going to forget in November. She said so originally. Remember, this was the - there was this undeclared campaign in Michigan that was aimed at the primary.
 
FRUM: Yes.
 
HUNT: And the thought was, well, he's not going to lose the primary in Michigan. We're going to make a statement, but that doesn't mean we're going to go vote against the president in the fall. Michigan could be the place where you win or lose an election. And now she's saying that these voters are not going to forget in November. FRUM: Well, there has been a lot of attempt to magnify the voices of
 
 those on the far left of the American political spectrum. The people who vote for Ralph Nader and vote for Cornell West and really want to see the Democratic Party lose because they have this idea that if you get Donald Trump in, that will create a revolutionary situation and then - then eventually the red banners will fly and they will win. And it's not a really smart plan, but it's the only plan they've got.
 
Meanwhile, the votes that are going to put President Biden over the top or not are coming from disaffected Republicans, the people who voted for Nikki Haley, even after she dropped out. That's the motherload of getable votes in this country. 
 
BEDINGFIELD: And I - look, I think, broadly speaking, for her to attack Joe Biden in this way probably helps him politically. I think the majority of voters - I means sort of to David's point, the majority of voters he's trying to win over, frankly the majority of voters in this country are, broadly speaking, supportive of Israel, want to see us stand by our ally there. And I think if - if someone who is representing the farthest left of the party, the most kind of vocal, aggressive, you know, we will take Joe Biden down even if that means Donald Trump becomes president. If she's attacking Joe Biden, that probably helps her with - helps him, rather. That probably helps him with the voters that he needs.
 
HUNT: Let's just play a little bit of what James Carville, who is clearly in a certain season of his life, had to say about Democratic messaging in general, but it relates to this. 
 
Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC PARTY STRATEGIST: We keep wondering, why these young people aren't coming home to the Democrats, which they are - why - why are blacks not coming home to the Democrat? Because Democratic messaging in full of (EXPLETIVE DELETED). That's why. And talk about cost of living. And we're going to help deal with this. And - and don't talk about (EXPLETIVE DELETED) and student loans.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: OK, who wants to take that one?
 
ELLIOT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: I think - well, I think what got cut off at the end there, he also yells, get off my lawn. So, I think - that - that's it. That's all I got.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Well, also, like, what's it - like, OK, Mr. Carville, let's hear your thoughts then. Let's hear something constructive. If you want to see Democrats be successful, what are your thoughts on what Democrats should be saying? I think there's - you know, look -
 
WILLIAMS: Yes.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Everybody's - HUNT: Well, he does seem to say that. He says the cost of living.
 
BEDINGFIELD: OK.
 
HUNT: We're going to help deal with that.
 
BEDINGFIELD: That - so his - so his biggest message is that President Biden should just go out and say, the cost of living. 
 
I mean I just think, you know, look, obviously, absolutely everybody has a right to criticize. Obviously, James Carville has, you know, tremendous political experience. 
 
WILLIAMS: Yes.
 
BEDINGFIELD: I would welcome his constructive thoughts on what the Democrats should be doing better. I'm not sure that, you know, shouting effectively get off my lawn is helpful.
 
WILLIAMS: Yes. And I - you know, the idea of a generation of leader or thinker looking back on the folks who've come after them and being critical of how they're doing it now is nothing new. 
 
Frankly, when - when he was one of the - 
 
BEDINGFIELD: Very True. Very true. 
 
WILLIAMS: The boys on the bus, I'm certain that the folks from - from LBJ's campaign or whatever else (INAUDIBLE) their campaign.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Very true.
 
FRUM: Let's put these - if you have - if you had a political system, never mind the personality of the day, where there were more blacks, young people, people of color in the Republican coalition, and more homeowners and people with IRAs in the republic - in the Democratic coalition, wouldn't that be a more stable - I mean the kind of great rotation we're seeing of the changes in the two parties, of the most educated out of the Republican Party and into the Democratic Party, the once monolithic communities defined by race becoming less monolithic, isn't that a good thing and conducive to the political stability of the country?
 <br>[06:40:08]
 
HUNT: If you think we're at a moment of political stability -
 
FRUM: I think we're in a moment of trend - of rotation -
 
HUNT: OK.
 
FRUM: Whose outcomes could be positive. 
 
HUNT: Very briefly, I do want to circle back, because I said I would mention it. And Kate kind of raised this in terms of it helping Biden.
 
Doug, I'm interested in your take.
 
So, this event that Rashida Tlaib spoke at -
 
HEYE: Yes.
 
HUNT: "The National Review" says that among the speakers at the Michigan event where Wisam Rafeedie, an activist associated with the popular front for the Liberation of Palestine, a Marxist-Leninist terror group active in Gaza and headquartered in the Syrian capital of Damascus. There is kind of this association there. 
 
HEYE: Yes, and one of the things we see quite often now in Congress, Congress is very censure happy. So, when Congress comes back into town, we could very easily see Republicans file some motion for censorship here. And also hear - hear Democrats not just maybe vote for it, but a lot of pushback on rhetoric. I expect Josh Gottheimer is going to be out there pretty loudly pushing in back on this. 
 
And this creates, I think, some of - some more tension in a Democratic conference or Democratic caucus in the House that doesn't need it. 
 
HUNT: Yes. Yes. It's very, very emotional. 
 
All right, coming up next here, how Donald Trump and President Biden are expected to react when a verdict is reached in Trump's criminal hush money trial. We'll let you guess. 
 
Plus, did Donald Trump actually once say Oprah would be the perfect running mates? Hint, yes. We'll show you, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:45:52]
 
HUNT: All right, 45 minutes past the hour. Here's your morning roundup. 
 
Donald Trump's lawyers asking a judge to reject a prosecution request for a gag order on the former president in his classified documents case. They are also asking the judge to hold the prosecutors who wrote the request in contempt. OK.
 
Democratic Senator Bob Menendez's corruption trial starts back up again today. The executive assistant to one of Menendez's co- defendants is set to return to this stand for direct examination.
 
Late night host Jimmy Kimmel is celebrating a successful surgery for his seven-year-old son Billy. Kimmel shared the news on social media yesterday. This is the third heart surgery Kimmel's son has had since he was born with a congenital heart disease. 
 
Also this story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Will you pardon Julian Assange? DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, I'm going to talk about that today and we're going to give it very serious consideration.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Trump talking about Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder who is fighting extradition to the U.S., where he faces espionage charges. OK.
 
All right, let's turn back now to the big question in politics this week, what will happen after a verdict is reached in the first prosecution of a former president? Whether found guilty or not, there is little doubt about how the former president, Donald Trump, is likely to respond. 
 
"The New York Times" writes this, Trump's response is likely to be "anger and retribution, regardless of the outcome." To understand why that seems all but guaranteed, you don't have to look any father than his own campaign pitch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I will direct a completely overhauled DOJ to investigate every radical out-of-control prosecutor in America for their illegal, racist and reverse enforcement of the law. 
 
I will appoint a real special prosecutor to go after the most corrupt president in the history of the United States of America.
 
I am your warrior. I am your justice. And for those who have been wronged and betrayed, I am your retribution.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: The panel's back.
 
David, I am your retribution. 
 
FRUM: If you've watched this program for the past hour where we've all been on the set, you have seen Donald Trump turn Memorial Day into a grievance festival for himself. You just now saw a clip Donald Trump considering pardoning Julian Assange, a - basically a - someone who fronted for the Russians and who - whose leaks and releases got dozens of American supporters and collaborators in Afghanistan killed. And you just saw that. 
 
He is presenting this country with a kind of stark choice. And the trial will be similar of that. Most people think the courts are fair. Most people think it's wrong to - if you've been convicted of a crime, that says something bad about you. Most people think that you're not a victim if you are held to account for your own actions. But there are disgruntled people, there are people who feel that America doesn't work, who have a beef with the country, think it's OK to betray America's allies in Afghanistan. And Donald Trump is very consciously building a coalition out of all of those people. 
 
So, you have the strange thing with the leader of what should be the conservative coalition is saying, I am for everyone who's mad at American, who feels not at home in America, who's not proud of America, doesn't trust the courts, doesn't trust the FBI, doesn't trust our allies, doesn't trust - doesn't trust our military. And then you have a Democratic president - candidate, head of the liberal coalition, who's trying to say, I'm going to be this being, broad, baggy, messy coalition leader, but speak for the country on a larger scale. 
 
So, that's going to be after - that's going to be after the trial. It's going be after everything. That's what this election is going to be all about.
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
Elliot, the specter of the use of the justice system by a reelected Donald Trump. Liz Cheney was on with my colleagues on "STATE OF THE UNION" earlier this year. She talked a little bit about it. 
 
Watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIZ CHENEY (D), FORMER U.S. CONGRESSWOMAN: When you think about Donald Trump, for example, pledging retribution. What Vladimir Putin did to Navalny is what retribution looks like in a country where the leader is not subject to the rule of law. And - and I think that we have to take Donald Trump very seriously. We have to take seriously the extent to which, you know, you've now got a Putin wing of the Republican Party.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[06:50:02]
 
HUNT: And, of course, Elliot, in the first Donald Trump term, in the wake of Mueller, what - he wanted to go farther than what the Justice Department ultimately did in terms of appointing a special prosecutor in Durham to look into that. 
 
I mean, what is the actual - what is the set of realistic possibilities? 
 
WILLIAMS: I actually think probably the most dangerous thing the former president did was fire Jeff Sessions, the attorney general of the United States, for not carrying out what were ostensibly political wishes of the president. 
 
It is nothing new. I know it from my time having worked at the Justice Department, Kate probably saw it in her time in the White House, that there's always tension between the sort of pointy headed nerdy lawyers at the Justice Department, guilty as charged -
 
HUNT: Should I get you a pointy hat? BEDINGFIELD: I can - I can attest to that. That is true.
 
WILLIAMS: I left my green eye shade at home today, but - and - and sort of the more political folks at the White House. That's natural. I'm certain it happened in the Bush administration. I know it happened in the Bush administration as well. And that's OK. The president then taking an additional step of saying, I'm going to now fire the chief law enforcement officer of the country because he's not carrying out my wishes was really a moment in American history.
 
And, one, we should not be surprised at all given the former president's record, other things he's been saying on the campaign trail as well. And, two, it's frightening of the kind of behavior that were this to be exercised in south or central America, we would look at it and be stunned at almost a form of dictatorship that - that we're talking about here. And so it is frightening. And for people that respect and believe in the rule of law, as it transcends political parties, right or left, this will be a new chapter in American history, I think, if - if the former president is reelected.
 
HUNT: How do Republicans here in Washington look at this possibility, Doug?
 
HEYE: I don't think they're really focused on it. And part of this is because Donald Trump plays the role of a matador. He waves his red cape. He says something about Julian Assange. Honestly, who cares. Not voters. 
 
He puts out some really bad statement on Memorial Day. Who cares? Not voters. Republican members of Congress say they didn't see the tweet or the Truth Social or whatever. 
 
So, I think it goes back to a lot of what James Carville said. This conversation that voters are having right now says, this country is moving in the wrong direction. Everything we spend money on is more expensive than it was four years ago. We're concerned about the direction of the country and we're either addressing that or not addressing it. And the candidate that can do that the best, that's the candidate that wins. It's not focusing on all these other ancillary issues that voters are just not focused on. 
 
BEDINGFIELD: I - so, I sort of agree with that. I absolutely agree that the economy is the central driver for people. It's what voters care about. It's what's impacting their lives day in and day out. No question. 
 
And I think, you know, both candidates have to kind of tackle that first and foremost. I agree with that completely.
 
I do think though that we have seen that voters do care about this argument about democracy and threats to democracy. Now, people may not be thinking about it in the way Elliot's thinking about it, in terms of, you know, the degradation of the rule of law and what the firing of the attorney general means, which I agree is an incredibly significant and potentially frightening thing. Most voters aren't thinking about it in that way. 
 
WILLIAMS: Of course.
 
BEDINGFIELD: But we have seen evidence, we saw it in the 2022 midterms, that people do worry about the threat that Donald Trump poses to democracy. They do feel like there's something kind of fundamentally un-American about the idea that, you know, you lose an election and you don't hand - peacefully hand over the transfer - you know, you don't peacefully transfer power. I mean I think that people, you know, they don't think about it in constitutional terms, but they do think about it in terms of, that's actually like a pretty fundamental piece of, you know, what makes our country unique and special. 
 
And so the idea that Donald Trump is going to take that away, that does have resonance with people and there is some fear there. I'm not saying its supersedes concerns about the economy, but I do think there's absolutely evidence that it motivates voters.
 
HEYE: Those voters you describe are out there. I'd just argue, they're already committed. And Lord knows if you're having a conversation about Julian Assange, you have a lot of deeply held thoughts about this election. You've made up your mind a long time ago. 
 
BEDINGFIELD: Well, I certainly agree with that. I certainly agree with that.
 
FRUM: Well, except - look, there's a saying or a joke back in 2016 that floated around Twitter in those - as it was called in those days, lol nothing matters. But the truth is, everything matters. There's just a lot of everything.
 
And, yes, there may be a very few people in the country who care about Julian Assange, but there are - whether Biden wins or not, again, will depend a lot on people who would normally vote Republican who do care about national security, who do care about the rule of law. And, by the way, for whom the economy - look at the economy and say, yes, prices are a little high, but, you know, the economy is roaring. There's just - the stock market is booming. Production is up. Productivity is up. America manufacturing is back. This is a strong economy. And the prices are high, but so are the wages. 
 
But they - there is - there are constituencies for everything. And what - who's going to put Biden in the White House or not, it is going to be people who would normally vote Republican and this time won't.
 
HUNT: Yes, really interesting. And I have so many questions about his outreach to those people too, or lack thereof. 
 
But let's turn now to this.
 <br>[06:55:01] (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LARRY KING: You have a vice presidential candidate in mind?
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Well, I really haven't gotten quite there yet. I guess -
 
KING: But suppose just you -
 
TRUMP: Oprah. I love Oprah. Oprah would always be my first choice. 
 
KING: Oprah. 
 
TRUMP: Oprah. Your competitor, right? Your competitor.
 
KING: Oprah is a competitor to no one.
 
TRUMP: She - you know what, she's - I'll tell you, she's really a great woman though. She is a terrific woman. She's - she's somebody that's very special. 
 
KING: (INAUDIBLE) think about it?
 
TRUMP: I mean if she'd do it, she'd be fantastic. I mean she's popular. She's brilliant. She's a wonderful woman.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: That was like 25 years ago, believe it or not. That was one -- the day when a Donald Trump/Oprah Winfrey ticket was not an entirely crazy idea. Had the two stayed the same political course, they may have actually founded Trump/Oprah ticket or an Oprah/Trump ticket for that matter might appeal to many voters who find themselves drawn to both celebrities. And we bring this up because of our friend of the show, Republican pollster Kristen Soltis Anderson, writes this about people that she has spoken to recently. "When I interviewed a dozen women who voted for Mr. Trump in 2020 and asked them who else they'd like to see run for president, the first responses from one Republican and one independent were emphatic, Oprah." 
 
The notion of a Trump/Oprah voter is a strong reminder of the power of celebrity to shape public opinion, policy considerations, ideological positioning, and partisan cues all warp around the gravitational pull of mega stardom in America. 
 
David, I mean, this is like a fundamental part of Donald Trump that, you know, we can't lose sight of.
 
FRUM: Well, you made a joke halfway through your monologue that your - Trump/Oprah? Really? She's more famous. She's richer. She's - Oprah/Trump, Oprah/Trump. That would - that's the ticket. That's the ticket.
 
And - but it also reminds us of how Donald Trump got into this game, which is, he was a generic celebrity and he was someone with moderate views of obnoxious ways of expressing them. He turned himself into this kind of creature, partly because by the time he got into politics in 2016, back in 2000 he was still a medium successful business - by 2016 he's in - in debt up to his eyeballs. He's got a career of crime. He had to shut down the law - he had to become this assault on the legal system because you could either have Donald Trump or the rule of law, or a Trump president to the rule of law but not both. But had he checked his ego at the door and said, Ms. Winfrey, I would really like to work for you, the whole course of American history might have been different. 
 
HUNT: Yes, maybe. Maybe so.
 
But, I mean, look, Doug, I think you're - you're kind of getting at this a little bit too and kind of talk about what - what these candidates need. The people that they need to talk to, the ways in which they need to talk to them. I mean there are a lot of casual Trump voters, I can imagine, out there. I mean we talk about his MAGA base on this show all the time. But for people who are not as engaged in the day-to-day of this, they know him as the guy who said "you're fired." 
 
HEYE: Yes.
 
HUNT: And that's still true. Even after everything.
 
HEYE: That still is a big part of his brand. And it's what propelled him, you know, in this first case. 
 
But I remember, just after Election Day in 2012 being in Richmond, Virginia, with then Majority Leader Cantor. And we determined that 8 percent of Richmond and suburban Richmond voters were Obama/Cantor voters. I still can't figure out who those 8 percent are. These are also the Oprah - these are some of the Oprah/Trump voters potentially.
 
BEDINGFIELD: Yes, well, it goes to celebrity that supersedes partisanship, right? That supersedes party.
 
HUNT: Yes.
 
BEDINGFIELD: I mean that's part of what would be part of Oprah's power. I - I will say, if Oprah decides to join the Trump ticket, I - I would be terrified. I mean that would be a -
 
HUNT: I mean that would be that, right?
 
BEDINGFIELD: That would be - it would. But it's, again, it's any - it actually - but it actually does sort of make sense when you think about the - the kind of overall fatigue that people have with politics, the kind of general disgust. The sort of unweave (ph) that we're seeing from voters in this cycle. Somebody like Oprah, who doesn't feel partisan one way or the other but feels familiar and impressive and powerful, it feels like that's where some of her - her strength would lie.
 
HUNT: I feel like more celebrities, not fewer, are a product of running for office. WILLLIAMS: Probably good. But I am loving the Oprah/Trump idea of, you have an indictment under your seat. No, you have an indictment under your seat. Indictments for everyone, with Oprah as vice president. 
 
HUNT: Oh, man. 
 
All right, on that note, I'll leave you with this because I guess its appropriate today, animals on the loose everywhere. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can pet it.
 
He's worn and tired out. You don't want to jump on him because he's got a bunch - a bunch of spunk in him. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HUNT: Police in Georgia gently recapturing this alligator roaming a Chatham County neighborhood before releasing it back into the wild. This was a smaller allegator than one that we saw police confront a couple of weeks ago on this show.
 
And then there's this. Everybody say awe. There's body camera footage of a Florida officers scooping up a kitten stranded in the middle of a busy road. Oh, look at that guy. It was later adopted by the dispatcher. That's very sweet. 
 
And then, we're not monkeying around. A Japanese snow monkeys spotted on the loose in Walterboro, South Carolina. 
 <br>[07:00:01]
 
How did he get there? Officials say Bradley escaped his habitat last week. After being caught on camera several times he was finally recaptured. So, I guess that's three happy endings to kick off what is, I don't know how - we could just use some - some happy animal rescues this week, right? 
 
Opening arguments start today. 
 
Thank you, guys, very much for being with me this morning. 
 
Thanks to all of you for joining us. I'm Kasie Hunt. Don't go anywhere. "CNN NEWS CENTRAL" starts right now.