Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Former Republican Staffers Endorse Kamala Harris; Zelenskyy Previews Four-Stage Victory Plan for Ukraine; 50 Years Since Beverly Johnson's Iconic Vogue Cover; 18-Year-Old Charts Path to Mountaineering History. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired August 28, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: Hi, welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. Here are some of the top stories we're following today. 
 
At least nine Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank after the Israeli military launched raids and airstrikes overnight. Israel's foreign ministry says the operation was to quote, thwart Islamic Iranian terrorist infrastructure. 
 
AT&amp;T is working to address the software issue impacting its wireless network. The company says some customers are having trouble connecting, but it's not a nationwide issue. However, the outage did impact the 911 emergency services in some states. 
 
And a late summer heat wave is affecting the U.S. Midwest with millions of people under heat alerts today. Temperatures are expected to reach triple digits, prompting some schools to close early. The National Weather Service says the region may be near the hottest it's been all summer.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Donald Trump recently did a wide ranging interview with U.S. talk show host, Dr. Phil, and the Republican presidential nominee's remarks took on some unusually religious tones. He suggested God is looking out for him, and the vote counting in the Democratic stronghold of California is dishonest, but that Jesus could fix things.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: I look at California, I gave a speech, I had a crowd so big, I said, there's no way I could lose California, but automatically they mark it down if you're a Republican as a loss. Then you lose by 5 million votes. I said, 5 million votes.
 
I guarantee if Jesus came down and was the vote counter, I would win California, OK? In politics, you have an opponent, and you win or you lose. But you don't have an opponent, and then you're doing well against the opponent, they take them out, they give you a new opponent, they give you a nice fresh opponent.
 
And so I have to win that. And if I win that, that would really serve to say that there's some incredible power up there that wanted me to be involved in saving, and maybe it's more than saving the nation, maybe it's saving the world. You know, I get along with all those tough guys.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Donald Trump may have picked up a key endorsement this week from Robert F. Kennedy Jr., but a long list of current and former Republicans are coming out in support of his rival. CNN's Julia Benbrook has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JULIA BENBROOK, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Several Republican politicians and former Trump staffers took to the stage at the Democratic National Convention last week.
 
STEPHANIE GRISHAM, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I am, behind a podium, advocating for a Democrat. And that's because I love my country more than my party. 
 
ADAM KINZINGER, FORMER U.S. HOUSE REPUBLICAN: Vote for our bedrock values, and vote for Kamala Harris.
 
BENBROOK (voice-over): Now, a group of more than 200 Republicans who previously worked for former presidents George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, former Senator John McCain, or Senator Mitt Romney, signed a letter backing Vice President Kamala Harris for president. 
 <br>[04:35:03]
 
Writing, quote: Of course, we have plenty of honest ideological disagreements with Vice President Harris and Governor Walz. That's to be expected. The alternative, however, is simply untenable.
 
ROSARIO MARIN, FORMER U.S.S TREASURER UNDER GEORGE W. BUSH: I know it's not easy for Republicans, you know, stalwart Republicans, people that have been on the trenches. I know it's not easy, but the reality is, if he gets back into the White House, God knows what's going to happen to our great nation.
 
BENBROOK (voice-over): This letter echoes the pledge of support from a similar group of Republicans for President Joe Biden ahead of the 2020 election, seeking to convince voters who backed previous Republican presidential nominees to support Harris in order to prevent former President Donald Trump from being reelected. 
 
Reporting in Washington, I'm Julia Benbrook.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says an incursion into Russia's Kursk region is just the beginning of a much larger plan to end the war, and he's going to need help to make it happen.
 
MACFARLANE: President Zelenskyy discussed his plans on Tuesday, adding he'll be traveling to the United Nations General Assembly in the coming weeks to speak with U.S. President Biden, who says is crucial to his multiple step plan. 
 
Salma Abdelaziz rejoins us now. Salma, we were talking last hour about the fact that the incursion into Russia has kind of been shrouded in mystery up to this point.
 
What is it that President Zelensky is putting on the table here? What more details do we know about this plan?
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: He says that this is the first step in what he calls a victory plan. He says the intention behind Kursk was to divert Russian troops to that region and away from eastern Ukraine. He claims, Ukrainian forces claim that that's happened, that thousands of Russian troops have been diverted.
 
U.S. officials, on the other hand, have also said that some of these that have been moved are actually conscripts, so it's not those elite, well-trained Russian forces. And if you look at what's happening on the battleground, you can see that Russia is, of course, still advancing, still inching towards that strategic city of Pokrovsk. But President Zelenskyy trying to sort of put this to one side and say, we're still very much in control.
 
In fact, I'm using the Western weapons. I'm using the F-16s to take out missiles that Russia's firing at me. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We have already destroyed some missiles and drones using F-16s, and I will not share how many, but we did it. Thanks to the partners that gave F-16s to us. Again, it's not enough. A very small number of F-16s. We need to do wider training missions. We have proposals to the United States. It depends on their permission.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ: So you hear him there thanking for the weapons, praising, but also saying, I need more, right? So what is this four-step plan? I'd really call it more of an outline than a plan that he laid out in this press conference. I do think we have a graphic to pull up to show you. 
 
The first was, as we mentioned, going into Kursk. The second is Ukraine's strategic place in the world security infrastructure. I think that's a reference to their bid to join NATO. Third, using diplomacy to force Russia to end the war. 
 
We've heard this when it comes to the Kursk invasion, the idea that it would give Ukraine more of an upper hand during any potential negotiations.
 
And finally, economic pressure. He's always gone on about this. More sanctions, more pressure on Russia economically.
 
He wants to bring this to President Biden, potentially next month around the U.N. General Assembly.
 
FOSTER: Last hour, you talked about the difference between red lights and yellow lights, as you called it, which was a good analysis, I think, because when he asked for permission from the West, it's not necessarily a clear go. Sometimes, look, I'm going to try this, would you say no?
 
ABDELAZIZ: The thing that you hear over and over again from Western allies is whatever it takes for as long as it takes. And Zelenskyy's consistently trying to push that particular phrase, if you will, whatever it takes, and really try to pressure the West to move its lines, to move its red lines when it comes to Russia. That is what he's hoping will continue to happen.
 
You have to remember, it's not just about these red lines, how they could aggravate President Putin, how they could escalate the war. It's also about the viability. There are limited weapons. There are limited resources. How do you use them? Could using these long-range weapons to hit deep inside Russia alter the course of this conflict? Is it worth it? That's the question he's going to be asked.
 
MACFARLANE: I think of it as being kind of carrot and stick with Zelenskyy, isn't it? And he's been so successful, really, in using that method before. So we'll wait to see the outcome of that meeting next week.
 
Salma, thank you.
 
FOSTER: Ahead, supermodel Beverly Johnson looks back at her groundbreaking photo on the cover of Vogue magazine that changed the American fashion industry.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Welcome back. It was exactly 50 years ago that the American fashion industry changed forever. In August of 1974, the iconic Vogue magazine put a black model on their cover for the first time, opening an era of inclusivity in the world of beauty and fashion. That model was, of course, Beverly Johnson and she has gone on to become an icon herself. Here's CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEVERLY JOHNSON, MODEL: I never thought 50 years from now that we would be still celebrating this.
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And here is the iconic cover. 
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): Supermodel Beverly Johnson became the first Black woman to appear on the cover of American Vogue. She'd been photographed for other covers but this one could revolutionize a model's career.
 
JOHNSON: It really happened when the magazine started putting your name with the photograph, Beverly Johnson. Now that made the impact. And I became like famous overnight and I never had that kind of exposure before.
 
I mean, I wanted to just go back to Boston where I went to college and get that boyfriend that never paid me any attention, you know.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): Suddenly, everyone wanted to talk to the model named Beverly Johnson.
 
JOHNSON: I did not know there had not been a woman of color on the cover of American Vogue. So when I found out from the reporters that were interviewing me, I was totally taken aback. It made me go into this self-discovery of who I am.
 
What's this thing about racism? A lot of things that were happening in 1974, besides, you know, little Beverly Johnson from Buffalo, New York being on the cover of American Vogue.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): She realized this cover meant something for Black women as they tapped into their own power. Something Johnson would rely on later when things got rough to speak up for herself and others in the modeling business. 
 
WAGMEISTER: Back in 2014, in your memoir, you came forward with your story about being drugged by Bill Cosby.
 
JOHNSON: I had an angel on my shoulder that I wasn't raped. I got out of there.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): As others came forward to accuse Cosby of assault, Johnson too spoke out. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
Cosby denied the allegations and later sued her for defamation before dropping the suit. In 2018, the comedian was sentenced to prison time for sexual assault in a separate case, but his conviction was later vacated.
 
JOHNSON: How can I not say anything? I always thought I had a voice. No, I didn't. You don't have a voice unless you use it.
 
WAGMEISTER: You posted on Instagram, the 50th historic Vogue cover could not have come at a better year.
 
JOHNSON: Kamala Harris, and I'm thinking, wow. I can't even imagine that little girls are now going to think, one day I could be president of the United States. It's about being seen and being heard.
 
WAGMEISTER: What do you wish you could tell your younger self? 
 
JOHNSON: At that time, you didn't know whether it was going to be a good looking picture or an ugly picture. You have to have a photographer that sees your beauty. A lot of people don't see it. Always see the beauty in yourself. You don't need a cover to see the beauty in yourself. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: The torch is making its way to Paris for tonight's opening ceremony of the 2024 Paralympic Games.
 
FOSTER: For more than 4,400 athletes that will be competing in 22 sports, medals will be awarded in 549 events. U.S. swimmer and gold medalist Jessica Long described the feeling of competing in her sixth Paralympics, would you believe?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JESSICA LONG, U.S. SWIMMER: Being here in Paris has been so exciting, right? Everywhere I look, it's the Olympic rings and the Agitos. And I think that's huge for us, right? Especially even our credentials. I am so excited to compete. For me, this is kind of just the icing on the cake.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: And while the Paralympics are a celebration of overcoming challenges, Paris has had to prove it has overcome its own challenges, having accessibility across the city. Only a quarter of the city's rail services are reportedly wheelchair friendly. 
 
Now, brothers Travis and Jason Kelce have agreed to a massive podcast deal with Amazon's Wondery Studio just in time for NFL season.
 
FOSTER: Yes, sources tell CNN they signed a contract, wait for it, with $100 million.
 
MACFARLANE: I mean, I think it will be worth it, yes. I mean, they draw -- they drew, they are drawing, of course, they're a huge audience with their lighthearted football talk. I don't know if you've tuned in for that.
 
FOSTER: Well, I've seen the clips. I've never seen a whole one.
 
MACFARLANE: The clips go viral for a reason, right? Travis is, of course, Taylor Swift's boyfriend and has also drawn new fans to the game.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRAVIS KELCE, PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL PLAYER, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: Steelers versus Vikings in the first ever best NFL team name bracket final. Steelers, 39.4 percent of the votes and your Minnesota Vikings with the best team name in the entire NFL wins it on a 60 percent slide. Just not even close.
 
Not even close. The Minnesota Vikings? Damn, was nobody on Twitter?
 
JASON KELCE, FORMER PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL PLAYER: It's just another beat for the US steel market.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) FOSTER: Jason Kelce recently retired from the NFL after 13 years is now an analyst with ESPN. Meanwhile, Travis is fresh off winning his third Super Bowl ring with the Kansas City Chiefs. Now, still to come, Naomi Osaka. Picture of the day.
 
MACFARLANE: Love this.
 
FOSTER: Fashion statement on the court. Wins the first round of the U.S. Open as well, by the way. 
 
MACFARLANE: Do you like it?
 
FOSTER: Yes, great.
 
MACFARLANE: Details on that coming up. Stay tuned.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: A teenager from Nepal charting a path to history as he looks to conquer the last of the world's tallest summits. CNN's Lynda Kinkade reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Step-by-step this teenager is on his way to making history.
 
18-year-old Nima Rinji Sherpa is setting his sights on the highest peaks in the world. After reaching 13, he's aiming to become the youngest person to climb all the 14 mountains above 8,000 meters. Even though he comes from a community of mountaineers, this is still a big deal.
 
NIMA RINJI SHERPA, MOUNTAINEER: This is a very big advantage for the Sherpa community and even for me and for everyone. because before this, you cannot -- you can't imagine a teenager doing the 14 peaks, you know.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): Sherpas are an ethnic group native to the valleys around Mount Everest. And they're often guides for mountaineers in the Himalayas. They carry large loads like equipment and food, fixing ladders and ropes along the way. Always a dangerous feat.
 
And climbing such incredible heights also brings great risks. Avalanches, exposure and high altitude sickness can easily take over and can be the difference between a successful summit and never reaching the peak.
 
But Nima Rinji Sherpa says his mental state is what keeps him focused and calm.
 
SHERPA: I've kind of convinced myself, you know, like to be normally in the mountain. Like for example when I see avalanche or bad weather or when there is an accident in the mountain I'm not in a hurry. I don't get like nervous or something like that.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): Despite growing up in a family of mountaineers, Sherpa never wanted to follow in their footsteps until just two years ago. His father, owner of Nepal's largest mountain expedition company says, for years he's been preparing his son for a moment like this.
 
TASHI LAKPA SHERPA, FOUNDER, SEVEN SUMMITS TREKS: He's very active and he's very fit because physically and mentally, he should be very prepared to do the big mountain climbing.
 
KINKADE (voice-over): Only about 40 people have reached all 14 peaks of what they call the 8000s. They're all in the Himalayan and Karakoram ranges spanning China, Pakistan, Nepal and India. As the youngest climber, not only has Sherpa broken multiple records, his expeditions have taught him a lot.
 
SHERPA: I've learned so much things about nature, human body, human psychology, meeting new people, nature and, like, everything in the world that I learned from the mountain.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
KINKADE (voice-over): With his sights set on one last mountain, Shishapangma in Tibet, he's hoping to inspire others and develop -- no matter whether he's on the ground or on top of the world, Sherpa is set on breaking more barriers.
 
Lynda Kinkade, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: And the U.S. Open is underway in New York, as we know, and Naomi Osaka yesterday beat Latvia's Jelena Ostapenko in the first round of the U.S. Open on Tuesday.
 
FOSTER: Yes, that is the headline, but this was the picture.
 
MACFARLANE: This was the moment, yes.
 
FOSTER: Her performance wasn't the only thing turning heads on the court. Osaka wore a giant green bow as part of her outfit. The two- time U.S. Open champion says she's embracing being more flamboyant, and her tennis outfit gives her, quote, a different strength.
 
MACFARLANE: I absolutely love this outfit. Can I just go on the record and say, Max, that for me --
 
FOSTER: You're dropping all impartiality.
 
MACFARLANE: I am, but I mean, it's almost -- someone needs to take the mantle at U.S. Open from Serena Williams, right, who used to, for years, come out with incredible outfits, but this is beautiful. Very mindful, I think.
 
FOSTER: What's the word you used earlier?
 
MACFARLANE: Very demure.
 
FOSTER: Demure. She's so on it.
 
MACFARLANE: Very demure, very playful.
 
FOSTER: Very brat.
 
MACFARLANE: Very brat, oh gosh. Ticking all the boxes, aren't we? But, you know, it's interesting as well.
 
Remember, she's just come back from having a child, and she has been talking quite openly about her struggles with her postpartum body. So if this makes her play and gives her what she needs, then I'm all for it. And this was, in fact, her first win over a top 10 player in more than four years. So more power to you.
 
FOSTER: They'll all be wearing bows.
 
MACFARLANE: Why not?
 
FOSTER: Why not?
 
MACFARLANE: Bring it on. More power to you, Naomi Osaka. 
 
And that does it for us here at CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane.
 
FOSTER: We can never get that right. We do it every single day.
 
MACFARLANE: Tune in for the mess up at the end of the show.
 
FOSTER: We haven't got our names wrong yet.
 
MACFARLANE: CNN "THIS MORNING" is up after this quick break. We need to stop talking.
 
END