Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel and Hezbollah Trade Strikes Amid Shaky Truce; Great Lakes Region Buried Under Snow, More Expected; Elton John Says He has Lost His Eyesight. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired December 03, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Max Foster, if you're just joining us here are today's top stories. 
 
So far, U.S. President Joe Biden's trip to Angola has been overshadowed by the announcement that he is granting his son, Hunter, a full and unconditional pardon for his felony convictions. The move has been widely condemned, even by many in his own party, since Biden promised earlier this year that he wouldn't pardon his son.
 
Iranian rapper Toomaj Salehi has been released from prison, and that's according to his international legal team. He was arrested in October 2022 for supporting the nationwide protests in Iran that were sparked by the death of Mahsa Amini. One of Salehi's lawyers says his release is a time for celebration, but also vigilance.
 
French President Emmanuel Macron is in Saudi Arabia for a three-day state visit. Mr. Macron met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in Riyadh on Monday. They called for elections in Lebanon and a de-escalation of conflicts in the Middle East. This is the first state visit to Saudi Arabia by a French president since 2006. 
 
An exchange of strikes is testing a shaky ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah. On Monday, Lebanese authorities say Israeli strikes killed at least nine people in southern Lebanon, marking the deadliest day since the truce took effect last week.
 
Israel says it's retaliating after Hezbollah fired two projectiles towards Israeli-occupied territory, but the Iran-backed group says it targeted Israeli military positions after days of repeated Israeli strikes. 
 
A source with a U.N. peacekeeping force in Lebanon says Israel has breached the ceasefire agreement approximately 100 times since last week. On the heels of that tenuous truce, there's a renewed push by the Biden administration to try to secure a ceasefire in Gaza.
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Israeli Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer in Washington on Monday. Dermer didn't answer questions as he left the U.S. State Department, but we've learned that during the meeting, Blinken stressed the importance of a ceasefire and a hostage deal and the need for plans for a post-war Gaza. CNN's Nada Bashir joins us in London with the latest. If we could talk
 
 about Gaza in a moment, you know, it's not unexpected that this ceasefire with Lebanon may have some edge to it.
 
I mean, people aren't saying it's over yet, but clearly it shows how much distrust there is on both sides.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, I mean, this is a really fragile truce agreement. And it had been sort of expected over this initial 60-day period that we may see some of the facilities that we're currently seeing on the ground.
 
This is, of course, a process in the hope that after that 60-day period, that's when we would see a lasting ceasefire. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
But what we've seen from about a day after, in fact, the ceasefire was declared is the Israeli military carrying out strikes, shelling several villages in southern Gaza. We've heard reports of Israeli -- southern Lebanon rather, that we've heard reports of Israeli fire from as early on as last week in southern Lebanon. 
 
And since Thursday, what we have seen is a daily airstrikes carried out by the Israeli military in southern Lebanon. As you mentioned, at least nine people killed on Monday, according to the Lebanese health ministry. We've seen drones flying overhead in Beirut. So there has been real concern that these are potentially violations of the ceasefire agreement.
 
That is certainly what Hezbollah believes. We've been hearing from officials there. They believe that Israel has taken action to violate the terms of the ceasefire agreement.
 
That is why they say they had fired two projectiles yesterday on Israeli occupied territory. Now, they say they were firing, targeting Israeli military positions. We've been hearing from Israeli military officials.
 
They say that the projectiles landed in open spaces, that nobody was injured. But this has drawn criticism from the Israeli government. Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu has been very firm. He has said that the country will respond with force. So that has really raised concern as to what we might see in the coming days and weeks with regards to a potential escalation, a potential further breakdown of the current ceasefire agreement, which, as I said, is very, very fragile at this stage. 
 
We've been hearing from our affiliates in Israel reports that both the U.S. and France have been warning Israel that they are in violation of the ceasefire agreement. However, we've also been hearing from the U.S. State Department. They believe that it's still being upheld right now. They want to see a continued focus on keeping the ceasefire together.
 
Take a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW MILLER, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON: What we have seen since the ceasefire went into effect is it being successful. Broadly speaking, it has been successful in stopping the fighting and getting us on a path where we are not seeing the just daily loss of life that we had seen for two months prior. 
 
Now, with respect to violations or potential violations of the ceasefire, we set a mechanism up to look into this very question.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: I heard that from Matt Miller talking about avoiding that daily loss of life that we'd seen before. We are seeing people being killed in Lebanon, civilians being killed. We're seeing a real state of insecurity and fear for many of those civilians who had been returning back to their homes in the south, many of them finding their villages completely destroyed.
 
The Israeli government, the Israeli military say that they have been responding specifically towards threats by Hezbollah, that they have been targeting Hezbollah movements in the south and infrastructure. But again, officials and sources familiar with the negotiations tell us that unilateral Israeli military action against Hezbollah is not enshrined in that ceasefire negotiation. So there is expected to be mounting pressure on both sides to uphold their end of the deal. But again, it's very fragile.
 
FOSTER: Yes, OK, Nada, thank you so much. 
 
Ireland's two main center-right parties are in the hunt for coalition partners now that all the votes have been counted from, it was Friday's election, the parties fell just two seats short of the 88 needed to govern. The Green Party, which had been a junior coalition partner, lost all but one of its seats and far-right candidates failed to win a single seat. Exit polling showed cost of living, homelessness and health amongst the most important issues for voters in that election.
 
The French government may be on the verge of collapse after lawmakers have put forward a no-confidence motion against Michel Barnier. The centrist prime minister's 2025 budget is deeply unpopular. It includes more than $60 billion in tax hikes and spending cuts in hopes of bringing down the deficit.
 
The far-right National Rally, led in Parliament by Marine Le Pen, has vowed to join lawmakers on the left to take down Barnier unless he agrees to several of their demands. 
 
Donald Trump is planning his first overseas trip since winning the presidential election last month, and he will travel to Paris for the reopening of the Notre-Dame Cathedral on Saturday. Sources tell CNN Trump was invited by the French government and his team has been in discussions with President Emmanuel Macron's office. The cathedral was severely damaged by a fire in 2019. Paris police say the reopening ceremony is expected to draw 50 heads of state and of government. 
 
Elon Musk's multi-billion dollar Tesla pay package has been blocked by a Delaware judge again. Tesla shareholders approved the payout in June, but some of them sued, arguing that the compensation plan was unfair and not in their best interest. And so far, the judges agreed. The package consists of more than 300 million Tesla stock options, now valued at around $100 billion, would you believe?
 
Sex workers in Belgium now have access to employment benefits. A landmark law the country passed in May went into effect on Sunday. It allows sex workers who sign an employment contract the rights to benefits like health insurance, sick pay and maternity leave. They also have more control over the services that they provide and can refuse a client. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
The law requires their employers to obtain a government license, and Belgium's law is the first comprehensive law of its kind in the world to expand equal employment rights to this industry.
 
Areas near the Great Lakes in the U.S. are expecting another foot of snow, would you believe? Coming up, a look at the weather warnings in place for Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York. 
 
And devastating news from Sir Elton John. What the superstar revealed to a theatre audience in London's West End.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: In the U.S., it's still snowing in the Great Lakes region after nearby states got more than five feet over the Thanksgiving holiday weekend. The area expecting another foot of snow today, and lake effect snow warnings remain in place for parts of Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York. At least 70 percent of the U.S. is expected to see freezing temperatures this week.
 
Ivan Rodriguez has more now on how people are dealing with this winter weather.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN RODRIGUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): More than five feet of snow falling over parts of western New York in the span of a few days. In Copenhagen, New York. 
 
DAN DELLES, RESIDENT: This ain't nothing. You get used to this kind of weather living here. 
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): People spend their weekend clearing out the snow from roads, driveways and even their cars.
 
MARIYA CLEMONS, RESIDENT: Not a huge fan, but we've been lucky, so I guess we're due. Well, lucky as in it is after Thanksgiving before we had our first major snow. So why not?
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): According to the Weather Prediction Center, an additional foot plus of snow could fall over western New York, northern Ohio and parts of Pennsylvania through Monday. Lake effect snow warnings are in effect into Tuesday. 
 
Officials in Erie County, Pennsylvania, say they're working to clear roads that as of Monday morning were impassable.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
BRENTON DAVIS, ERIE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA EXECUTIVE: That's a result of snowplows and snow removal equipment not being able to access those areas. And I need the National Guard. Now you need the wreckers. You need all those things in order to remove those obstacles so they in turn can clear the snow.
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): Also asking people to stay home and off the roads. 
 
DAVIS: Only travel when necessary. 
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): The cold will also persist. Nearly 70 percent of the country will face temperatures below 32 degrees for the next few days.
 
I'm Ivan Rodriguez reporting.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Records were shattered at airports across America on Sunday, which marked the busiest day in history for U.S. air travelers. According to the Transportation Security Administration, more than three million people were screened at the nation's airports, the most ever in a single day. The prior record set in July on July the 7th earlier this year after the 4th of July holiday.
 
Now, the TSA is now honoring some key members of the agency. Explosives detection dogs. That's coming in the form of a canine calendar, a yearly tradition that highlights the hundreds of dogs working at airports across the U.S. The 2025 calendar features 13 canines picked from more than 80 entries from TSA teams nationwide with each month, including pictures and fun facts about the featured dog. The calendar now available for download. 
 
And Christmas lights on in Downing Street, getting a mixed reception. Coming up, a look at the festivities of the British prime minister's residence.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: The only man who can wear a suit on a beach. Elton John singing I'm Still Standing. Recently revealing though severe eye infection and it's left him unable to see. A 77-year-old pop star broke the news to a London audience at a performance of The Devil Wears Prada on Sunday. CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Sir Elton John making a surprise announcement on stage at a gala performance of the Devil Wears Prada in London.
 
ELTON JOHN, ENTERTAINER: I've lost my eyesight so it's hard for me to see it but I love to hear it.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): The 77-year-old pop superstar wrote the score to the show and thanked his husband, David Furnish, for his support during his months-long battle with a severe eye infection.
 
JOHN: And to my husband, who's been my rock because I haven't been able to come to many of the previews.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): He first spoke publicly about his sight in an Instagram post three months ago, saying he was dealing with a severe eye infection that has unfortunately left me with only limited vision in one eye. And in an interview last week, the icon said his eye issues have interfered with his ability to work.
 
JOHN: I'm kind of stuck in the moment because I can do something like this, but going into the studio and recording, I don't know because I can't see a lyric for a start.
 
(MUSCI PLAYING)
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): The music legend retired last year after decades of live concerts, performing in more than 300 shows alone during his farewell Yellow Brick Road Tour.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): Then the pop star joined President Biden in New York during the summer --
 
JOHN: Thank you, Mr. President.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): -- to mark the 55th anniversary of the Stonewall riots that helped launch the modern gay rights movement.
 
JOHN: Let's have some music. It does bring us together.
 
WAGMEISTER (voice-over): Two years after, the president presented him with the National Humanities Medal during a concert at the White House to celebrate his talent and his advocacy in the global fight against HIV and AIDS. The pop legend's presence on stage at the Devil Wears Prada Gala was cheered on Sunday night after talking about his health challenges and then praising the musical's performers.
 
JOHN: Boy, it's going to be good tonight. OK?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Elton John there wishing him well. 
 
The U.K. meanwhile getting into the holiday spirit.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Three, two, one.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Don't they look so excited. Keir Starmer there switching on the Christmas tree lights outside 10 Downing Street. First time since becoming Prime Minister Starmer and his wife Victoria are greeted by choir to mark the festive occasion followed by a performance by the band of the Scots Guards.
 
The White House decorations went up over the weekend bit more impressive. The office of the First Lady Jill Biden says this year's theme is a season of peace and light and the decor includes thousands of twinkling lights and floating paper doves. Julia Benbrook takes a look at the final holiday season decorations under the Biden administration.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JULIA BENBROOK, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas at the White House. First Lady Jill Biden unveiling this year's holiday theme a season of peace and light.
 
JILL BIDEN, U.S. FIRST LADY: We are guided by the values that we hold sacred, faith, family and service to our country. Kindness toward all of our neighbors and the power of community.
 
BENBROOK (voice-over): The decor includes 83 Christmas trees more than 28,000 ornaments and over 165,000 lights. More than 300 volunteers helped create the wonderland.
 
J. BIDEN: It's been incredible to watch all of you transform this space year after year.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
BENBROOK (voice-over): The first Christmas tree display on the tour is dedicated to Gold Star families with the stacked stars representing all six branches of the military. As guests continue down the east colonnade they're surrounded by bells
 
 symbolizing the sounds of the holiday season and in the Blue Room the official White House Christmas tree. An 18 and a half foot Frasier fir presented by Cartner's Christmas tree farm in North Carolina.
 
White paper doves carry messages of peace in the Red Room and finally in the state dining room trees adorned with self-portrait ornaments crafted by students from across the country in hopes that each child can see themselves reflected in this year's display.
 
J. BIDEN: May our nation be blessed with peace and light this holiday season.
 
BENBROOK (voice-over): Reporting at the White House I'm Julia Benbrook.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: And NASA giving old hold the Yule Log video a bit of a boost or make that boost as four blazing rocket engines burning in this virtual fireplace. Pretty cool. Specifically it's video of the RS-25 for the space nerds out there.
 
The engines that launched the Artemis 1 rocket to the moon two years ago. The blasting engines play on an eight hour loop so get the soothing low-level roar of the rockets along with the cracks and pops you expect from a traditional Yule Log video. 
 
Thanks for joining me here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster in London. CNN "THIS MORNING" is lifting off next after the break.
 <br>[05:00:00]