Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Israeli Troops Pull Back From West Bank City Leaving Mass Destruction; Palestinian Officials: American Activist Shot Dead in West Bank Protest; Arizona Elections Official Aims to Prepare Next Generation; Jobs Report: August Unemployment Fell, 142,000 New Jobs Created. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired September 06, 2024 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: And, yes, the IDF is operating in Gaza, but here you are looking at destruction in Jenin, which is a city in the occupied West Bank. Israeli forces pulling back from this area overnight after an intense 10-day military operation there. We have CNN's Nic Robertson, who is just back from that devastated area.
 
Nic, tell us what you saw.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, we came into the town, Brianna. This was the moment when the residents of Jenin were beginning to bury their dead, and the first funeral we went to was for three men that the IDF would call terrorists. They see themselves as resistance fighters, but, nevertheless, these were militants.
 
There were a lot of gunmen around there, a lot of shots being fired in the air. I spoke to one of the commanders, and he said, look, we have not been defeated by the IDF here. We won't be defeated in the future. We have taken losses, but the IDF have as well, and they should own up to those losses. 
 
There were other funerals in the city, because although the IDF says there were 14 terrorists killed in this operation, the Ministry of Health in the West Bank say that there were 39 deaths, eight of them children, two of them old people. And we were at the funeral for one of those elderly people, an 87-year-old man.
 
And his son said, look, he was short of food. He went out to try to get food. The IDF said that he was approaching one of their checkpoints. They tried to arrest him, but he didn't stop walking, so they shot him. And the son said, well, you know, what are we supposed to think? What are we supposed to take away from this?
 
So the deaths, the burials today, but also putting back, trying to repair the city, a huge amount of destruction, more than $10 million worth of destruction to roads and infrastructure, never mind businesses. 
 
We talked to the mayor, and he told us, look, he said, look, the Israelis are turning the West Bank into Gaza. They're coming in and wrecking our communities, wrecking the businesses. And it looks and feels like Gaza. 
 
And I suppose one of the most poignant questions I had was for an 18- year-old young man, a baker by trade. And I said, what does this do for you?
 
And he says, look, we're used to it. I've grown up with this. He said, the Israelis come in, they knock it down. We put it back up. But you know what he said? It makes us stronger.
 
So when I walk away, I know there are gunmen on the streets. I don't think the young baker is one of them. But I am aware that this incursion has really riled people and made them more anti-Israel.
 
KEILAR: Yes, and an American activist was killed today in the West Bank, Nic. What are you learning about her death?
 
ROBERTSON: It sounds horrible and tragic. So she was part of a weekly protest outside one of the small Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank. It's a settlement that's very close to a Palestinian village. She was there with other foreigners and with Palestinians as well in this weekly protest. They were sort of down the hill, the IDF -- the troops were up the hill. Towards the end of the protest, the activist said that the IDF fired tear gas. They were sort of hiding behind big trash cans. And then they say that the IDF started firing live rounds.
 
And the IDF has said they did fire live rounds. They haven't said yet whether or not they thought there was a gunman there. But as these activists and this 26-year-old Turkish-American activist ran away, she was shot and shot in the head.
 
And though the medics were on the scene super fast and got her in an ambulance really quickly, got her to the nearest hospital fast in the city of Nablus not far away, unfortunately, she was pronounced dead when she got there.
 
KEILAR: Oh, it's horrible. Nic Robertson, thank you for that report. Live for us from Tel Aviv.
 
And ahead, how an outgoing Arizona election official is training people to take on the very role that left him with PTSD after the 2020 race.
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: As the presidential campaign enters the homestretch, election officials are once again under intense scrutiny and pressure, even harassment.
 
One person who understands these dangers is Maricopa County Election Supervisor Bill Gates. Election deniers in Arizona's most populated county targeted Gates and his family over the outcome of the 2020 election, with one person even having been sentenced for threatening to poison him. The ordeal left him dealing with PTSD and now stepping away from the role.
 
Joining us now is Bill Gates. Bill, thank you so much for being with us. You've said that you are not running for re-election in part because of this harassment. You've also said that you don't want the challenges that you've faced to be the story. So then why are you coming forward with the trauma that you've experienced?
 
BILL GATES, MARICOPA COUNTY, ARIZONA SUPERVISOR: Well, thanks for having me. The reason that I've come forward to tell my story is it's just not my story. It's the story, tragically, of hundreds, if not thousands, of elections officials across the country.
 
And I think that it's important for people to understand what we're all facing here. One, that people are dealing with these challenges who are working in elections. They're good people. They're trying to do the right thing. 
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
Also to remind people that this is not acceptable. And we should not normalize this type of behavior towards these people working in elections who are really the foundation of our democracy.
 
SANCHEZ: So what can officials at the local, state, or federal level do to change the atmosphere around elections?
 
GATES: Well, first of all, we have to keep the focus on the jobs that we're doing. That's what's most important. Our voters, our residents are counting on us to do our jobs.
 
But in the end, there are things that we can't control. And this is where we need those people, particularly other elected officials, to stand up and speak out when people are threatened. People who are working in elections to say that it's unacceptable. And to come behind these elections officials and provide them with support.
 
SANCHEZ: Now, Bill, I hope you don't mind me asking. You've said that you are still a Republican. And one of the candidates for Senate in your state is Kari Lake. She's this unrepentant election denier who even suggested that there was fraud in her gubernatorial campaign that she wound up losing. Would you be voting for her? Are you considering voting for her?
 
GATES: Well, because I'm an elections official, I don't speak about who I might be or might not be voting for. So I think it's important that, you know, people not be distracted by that. And know that my focus, along with my colleagues, is to make sure that we have a safe and secure election again here in 2024.
 
SANCHEZ: I certainly respect that answer. I feel like I had to ask in part because it has to bother you that there are still so many officials out there, elected officials and those aspiring to elected office that are propagating lies about the 2020 election. And I wonder how that makes you feel.
 
GATES: It's very frustrating for me and others who are in elections. The fact is, as we've talked about, the 2020 election might be the most scrutinized election in the history of the world. And there's been no basis for arguing that the results were inaccurate.
 
And yet people continue to ask questions and they continue to raise doubts about it. That was now almost four years ago. So again, I have no problem with people asking questions that are asked in good faith.
 
When people know the answers and they're just continuing to raise doubts in order to sort of erode the foundations of our democracy. That's what I have a problem with.
 
SANCHEZ: So, Bill, let me ask you about this. America First Legal is suing all 15 county recorders in Arizona. They're accusing them of failing to, quote, take the actions required by law to ensure that foreign citizens are removed from their voter rolls.
 
They're essentially arguing that there are foreign citizens on voter rolls, insinuating that people who are not citizens are voting in elections. What's your reaction to the case?
 
GATES: Well, I can tell you in Arizona, we are actually required by law. If people want to register to vote, they have to provide documentation that they are citizens. This is an issue that we're well aware of. And I can assure you that in all of the counties across Arizona, we are following the law. We're going to continue to do that. People have the right to go into court and bring lawsuits if they want to.
 
But I can let you know that our focus is on this election, what's coming up, an extremely important election in November, and we're not going to be distracted.
 
SANCHEZ: And, Bill, one final quick question. You're starting this new program at Arizona State University to sort of help folks that want to get into officiating elections as a career field. Have you encountered any people that are perhaps curious to do it, but are concerned about some of the harassment and the stuff that you've faced?
 
GATES: Well, it's certainly natural for people to have concerns. Really, getting into public service in general, we know that you're in the public light. But I've been so encouraged to meet these young people who are aware of that, but they know the importance of running safe and secure elections.
 
They're drawn to this. And I'm really excited about the opportunity at Arizona State University to work to train that next generation of election officials who are going to be so important to this country's future.
 
SANCHEZ: There is no question that they are and that the work that you do is critical to maintaining the democracy that we cherish. Bill Gates, thanks so much for sharing your perspective with us.
 
GATES: Thank you.
 
SANCHEZ: Of course. [15:45:00]
 
This just in. Former Republican Congresswoman Liz Cheney just revealed who her father, former Vice President Dick Cheney, will be voting for this November.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIZ CHENEY, FORMER REPUBLICAN CONGRESSWOMAN: Dick Cheney will be voting for Kamala Harris. If you think about the moment that we're in and you think about how serious this moment is, you know, my dad believes and he said publicly that there's never been an individual in our country who is as grave a threat to our democracy as Donald Trump is.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: Dick Cheney has been a conservative all his life, serving not just as President George W. Bush's Vice President, but also as Secretary of Defense. Before that, he was the House Minority Whip, the Chairman of the Republican Conference, and the White House Chief of Staff for President Gerald Ford.
 
Dick Cheney publicly broke with Donald Trump in the wake of the riot at the U.S. Capitol on January 6th. 
 
Still to come, President Biden is hitting the battleground state of Michigan right now, looking to tout the strength of America's economy as the White House is calling today's jobs report, a new jobs report, a good sign. We'll look at the numbers in just moments.
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Happening right now, President Biden about to deliver remarks or just getting started delivering his remarks on the economy and investing in America in battleground, Michigan.
 
KEILAR: And he's also expected to take credit for this morning's new jobs numbers, new jobs report that shows the economy created 142,000 jobs last month, up from 89,000 in July. Unemployment also got slightly better, the rate ticking down to 4.2 percent. 
 
So let's talk more about the jobs report and the economy with Justin Wolfers. He is a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan.
 
All right, Professor, so you have Biden touting the report. It did come in under expectations. We should note that in July's already worrying report was also revised down. What's your takeaway?
 
JUSTIN WOLFERS, ECONOMICS PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN: I think this is actually what a boring economy looks like. And so it's going to be a very hard one for people on either side to write strong talking points about. But really, this is what a soft landing looks like.
 
That's the word the Fed has been using. The economy was running too hot. We managed to get unemployment down to a 50-year low. What we needed to do was slow the economy a bit, but to a level where it wouldn't cause unemployment to rise. So that's the soft landing. And economists have this idea there's some level of employment growth that's enough, that's not too hot, not too cold. And that's pretty much where we were today.
 
SANCHEZ: So, Justin, how do you expect the Fed is going to respond with its decision on interest rate cuts next month? Is it going to be a half a point, a quarter of a point? What do you think?
 
WOLFERS: Well, for sure, the Fed is going to cut interest rates in September. And the real debate is, is it going to do a small cut or a big cut? And these decisions are often pretty boring. And we try and make them sound exciting, but they're not. But this is one where I think that the arguments are really pretty evenly stacked on both sides. 
 
On the one hand, it looks like we've nailed the soft landing. On the other, we have the right setting for interest rates for back when we were really worried about inflation. Now inflation's come back down. So maybe we need to bring interest rates back down to normal and maybe we should do that quickly.
 
That would be the argument for a 50 basis point cut. And if you look at the markets right now, they say that's about a 50-50 bet. So that's going to be a really fierce argument.
 
KEILAR: So if you're just someone, you know, I don't know, it's Friday night. Maybe you're having a conversation over the kitchen table about what the economic future looks like in your family. How should you be looking at these indicators right now?
 
WOLFERS: Look, I used the word boring earlier, but I'm an economist. I love the word boring. Boring is what economists aim for.
 
We want the economy not to be the thing you're worried about around the kitchen table. So I think it's a Friday night. We've got a lot of good football games starting tomorrow. So I'd change the subject and talk about something else. And I'd feel comfortable doing that because unemployment is low. People are finding jobs.
 
Wages are rising and wages are rising faster than prices and inflation's coming back down. So I'm really excited to see economics no longer on the front page and people talking about football instead.
 
SANCHEZ: There's football tonight, actually, in Brazil, too. So that'll be exciting to watch. Justin, I am curious, though, not to inject drama in the conversation and you describing you wanting a boring economy. If the next couple of jobs reports are underwhelming, does that create concern for you?
 
WOLFERS: Boris, I love the question. And I want to put it in the broader context, which is often with economics, we say, well, if there's not bad news, can we imagine bad news? And yes, it could happen. Things could be worse than we think they are. 
 
The other thing that could happen is good news. Things could turn out to be better than what we think they are.
 
So, yes, we don't know the future, mate. But the best guide to the future is where we are. And right now, things are not so dramatic. That's not a promise that they'll stay there forever.
 
KEILAR: Professor Optimist, Justin Wolfers.
 
SANCHEZ: To tie things together, I'm going to be very optimistic about the Miami Dolphins this season. Super Bowl. Super Bowl is what Justin Wolfers is predicting for the Dolphins.
 
Thanks so much.
 
WOLFERS: And the University of Michigan, the defending national champions beating Texas tomorrow.
 
KEILAR: All right. We'll put a plug in for the thoughts and prayers for them as well. Professor, thank you so much.
 
We do appreciate it. I love talking to him.
 
SANCHEZ: He's great.
 
KEILAR: All right. Love the optimism. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
So, several right-wing media accounts that the U.S. Justice Department says were spreading Russian propaganda are no longer on YouTube. The platform took them down after a DOJ indictment linked the accounts to an alleged Kremlin influence operation that targeted the 2024 U.S. election.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, the accounts included Tenet Media and its co-founder, Lauren Chen. Officials say that Tenet is linked to right-wing commentators with millions of subscribers on YouTube and other social media platforms.
 
Injuries are a reality for any athlete. But coming up, you won't believe how this soccer player injured himself. It's something most of us do on a pretty regular basis. A freak injury. We'll talk about it coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Now to one of the strangest soccer injuries you've ever heard. This sounds made up. We assure you it's not.
 
The Bolton Wanderers' Victor Adeboyejo is out with a back injury caused by a sneeze. His coach says that quote, Victor is a powerful boy and even his sneezes are powerful.
 
KEILAR: So he now joins an elite club of bizarre soccer injuries from a Scottish star who got burned by an exploding microwave egg. Oh, that one makes sense to me. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
Or the Swedish player who broke his jaw biting into a carrot.
 
No word yet on when Victor will return, but we are wishing him a speedy recovery. And he needs to be careful with his coughs, with his sneezes.
 
SANCHEZ: I've had some violent sneezes. I'm sure you've had some as well. Has it injured you?
 
SANCHEZ: Can't say that. Maybe it just hurt my feelings. Yes.
 
And also hurt people around me with flying stuff.
 
KEILAR: Yes, that's true. I pulled my back out once getting like a coffee mug from the cupboard. Feels like there was an underlying cause.
 
SANCHEZ: Got to be careful with that stuff.
 
KEILAR: Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: You know who's careful? "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.
 
END