Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ex-Trump "Fixer" Michael Cohen Expected To Testify Tomorrow; U.S. Officials Warn Against Invasion Of Rafah As Israel Presses Ahead; Suspect Sought In Ambush Killing of Ohio Police Officer; Sever Storm, Flood Threats Return To South East Texas, Louisiana; Biden Goes After Trump: He's "Clearly Unhinged"; Trump Holds Campaign Rally Before Trial Resumes Monday; Apple Apologizes, Says iPad Pro Ad "Missed The Mark". Aired 2-3p ET

Aired May 12, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:36] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. 
 
Happy Mother's Day on this Sunday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
Former president Donald Trump's hush money trial is preparing for the star witness to finally take the stand.
 
Tomorrow, Trump's former fixer and attorney, Michael Cohen, is expected to testify. Cohen's testimony is seen as key for the prosecution's case and could signal the final stages of this historic trial. 
 
He will testify to his role in negotiating the alleged hush money payment to adult film star Stormy Daniels on Trump's behalf and how his former boss reimbursed him. It follows a week of blockbuster, contentious and at times graphic testimony from Daniels. 
 
CNN's Zach Cohen is joining us right now. So Zach, what can we expect from Michael Cohen's testimony because what's crucial to the prosecution's case is tying it to the fraudulent business records.
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Exactly right, Fred. And this is the moment we've all been waiting for. Michael Cohen is the only witness who can speak to the two critical parts that you just mentioned. 
 
One is tying Donald Trump to that decision to pay Stormy Daniels ahead of the 2016 election, that decision to buy, catch and kill unflattering stories about Donald Trump in an effort to protect him and his presidential bid.
 
And the second part of this is the decision after Donald Trump was elected president. This February 2017 meeting where Donald Trump allegedly agreed to the way Michael Cohen would be reimbursed for that hush money payment. Michael Cohen, again, the only witness that we've heard from who can connect both -- Donald Trump to both of those key pieces of the prosecution's case. 
 
But look, the jury has already heard plenty about Michael Cohen from other witnesses who have testified over the last three weeks, and most of it has been frankly unflattering. 
 
They painted him has an aggressive, impulsive attorney who was really loyal to Donald Trump. And would go too extreme steps to protect the former president, both when he was just a private citizen and a candidate for president. And then also after he was in the oval office.
 
And we can expect on Trump's attorneys to really go after Michael Cohen when he's on the stand, They'll get their chance to cross- examine him and they will continue to try to reinforce this idea that Michael Cohen is unreliable. He's a convicted liar. Continue to really try to knock down any sort of credibility that he might have with the jury. 
 
Now, the prosecution had on the other hand, have used other witnesses and documents like emails and text messages to sort of try to lay the groundwork in the lead up to Michael Cohen's testimony. They've tried to provide a supporting evidence around what Michael Cohen is expected to talk about related to Donald Trump and hopefully are going to have to convince the jury to separate Michael Cohen's past from what he says on the stand starting tomorrow. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Zach Cohen, thank you so much.
 
Joining me right now to talk more about this trial is Harry Litman. He is a former U.S. attorney and a former deputy assistant attorney general. 
 
Great to see you.
 
HARRY LITMAN, FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY: Likewise. Happy Mothers' Day, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: Thank you so much. 
 
All right. Well, just like Zach was saying, I mean, the credibility of Michael Cohen will be on attack right away. So how important will it be for the prosecution since its first inviting its witness to just lay it all out. What the history of Michael Cohen, you know, is, has been, perjury, doing time, et cetera, and his behavior you know, while he was working for Donald Trump.
 
LITMAN: They will do that in the parlance. It's called taking the sting out. And really Fredricka, they've been doing it the entire trial. It's been very interesting through prosecution witnesses, not just defense cross-examination. 
 
We've heard Cohen pretty well trashed and I think it serves to lower expectations a bit. Let the jury know that he's got baggage and hopefully have something of an open-mind to his account, which has been consistent over the last couple years.
 
And you know, somebody can have skeletons in their closet and still be credible. It happens every day in the Manhattan criminal courts.
 
WHITFIELD: So the allegations of the fraudulent business records, I mean, that is what this case is all about. 
 
All of the other stuff in terms of the relationship, the hush money, those are the building blocks, right. Because the prosecution knows it has to prove the fraudulent business records.
 <br>[14:04:49]
 
WHITFIELD: Is that where Michael Cohen is going to be key? Or do you believe there are s some other surprise witnesses who are going to establish that after Michael Cohen's testimony.
 
LITMAN: I don't think so. There could be -- I can think of who it might be, but I think Cohen is going to carry this water. 
 
And in particular a witness we will not see is Allen Weisselberg, who could confirm as Zach was just saying, this important February 2017 meeting but the prosecution has to play with the cards they're dealt and we've already seen they're shying away from people who continue to be loyal to Trump. 
 
Cohen is essentially the one infidel who tells the whole story, but a key part of their case to date has been corroborating him in advance -- almost all the way, but not all the way. There will be a few key details, he has to carry on his own. 
 
WHITFIELD: What kind of details do you believe are missing right now to keep the jurors engaged because sometimes talking about business records can be very mundane and boring in terms of documentation. 
 
So how do you keep the jurors engaged if they're not right now. How do you grab them back?
 
LITMAN: It's a good question, although, you know, I've been in court the whole time, they are engaged even at the business records stuff. 
 
But even if they lag, they will definitely perk up, come tomorrow when the prosecution says "The people call Michael Cohen".
 
And then of course we'll be moving pretty quickly into the final act and closing arguments. And all indications are from how they've been to date, that they are paying close attention. 
 
WHITFIELD: Do you think this is going to get wrapped up this week? And closing arguments perhaps, you know, finalize the week or maybe jurors would have to think about the testimony and then with the start of a new week that's when closings might come?
 
LITMAN: You know, the D.A. has said they might finish this week, but next week becomes tricky because there's no court on Friday. 
 
And if you do the math, they're not going to want to give the jury the case the Thursday before Memorial Day and then there'd be five days. 
 
So if I had to guess, it'll be wrapped up Thursday or Monday. No court Friday this week, either. The defense I think well have a short case including no testimony from Donald Trump. But then you want closing arguments before the jury gets the case. 
 
I think the judge may decide to take a breath and do it all starting the Tuesday after Labor Day (SIC) even though the evidence will be essentially all in as of next Monday or Tuesday. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. And you're back in court. You've got a seat back in court tomorrow again. 
 
LITMAN: Tomorrow, yes. Big day.
 
WHITFIELD: It is a big day. Ok. We'll check back with you. Harry Litman, thanks so much. 
 
All right. And new today, growing fears in the Middle East. Israel launching fresh attacks against Gaza as the U.S. now warns a ground invasion of Rafah could result in significant civilian casualties. 
 
Israel Defense Forces launching a blistering campaign against Hamas overnight targeting northern and central Gaza, as well as Rafah in an effort to prevent militants from regrouping. The Hamas-controlled ministry of health says more than 35,000 Palestinians have been killed since the war began while the U.N. says at least 300,000 have evacuated Rafah ahead of Israel's ground operations.
 
All of this just days after President Biden warned Israel against a Rafah invasion, promising to pause certain weapons transfers if the IDF pushes forward. 
 
Today, top White house officials explained why they believe going into Rafah could have disastrous consequences. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Going into Rafah, even to deal with these remaining battalions especially in the absence of a plan for civilians, risks doing terrible harm to civilians and not solving the problem. A problem that both of us want to solve, which is making sure Hamas cannot again govern Gaza.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: The president's decision is already causing quite the divide in Congress, even within his own party.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): President Biden is learning the mistakes of U.S. military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan. What we learned in both of those efforts was that you cannot defeat a terrorist ideology. You cannot defeat a terrorist movement with military force alone. SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): I think President Biden has taken forceful
 
 action. So much so, there's been a lot of blowback for his recent public statements. And I'll remind you, other American presidents have done the same thing where our close trusted partner isn't listening to private admonitions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: CNN's Paula Hancocks is monitoring the latest from Abu Dhabi. 
 
Paula, obviously, there are big concerns in Rafah. What is the latest on the ground there? 
 <br>[14:09:47]
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well Fred, we know from the U.N. and also from the Israeli military that they believe about 300,000 have been fleeing that particular area. They're going west and some are going north as well. 
 
Now the area they're going to, al-Mawasi, which is where the Israeli military says there is a humanitarian situation set up. We have heard from humanitarian aid groups that it's inhumane. The conditions there are not suitable for significant amounts of more people to be trying to get to that area. 
 
But some are unable to leave the Rafah. We know that the sick, the wounded, and some quite frankly exhausted having moved so many times before, are unable to make that journey. 
 
Now, what we're also hearing on the grinder, some real concerns about the land crossings on the southern border. 
 
Of course, Rafah, the Israeli military has taken over that crossing and it has been closed. We know that Egypt is not willing, they're saying officials at this point to negotiate and coordinate with Israel to try and get the trucks into Gaza. And they are citing security concerns because of course, it's not just trying to get the trucks in, it's then trying to be safe enough to distribute that aid.
 
And Kerem Shalom also along the southern area -- that has barely been opened, although the Israeli military says some aid has managed to get through.
 
We're hearing from U.N. teams that U.N. teams on the ground could run out of aid to give out by Sunday, that is today. They think that some of the four bakeries that are barely functioning at this point, will run out of stock by tomorrow on Monday. 
 
So a significant humanitarian crisis on top of the crisis that's already there, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: Ok. And Paula, we're also hearing about Israeli operations beyond Rafah. So what are we learning about that? WHITFIELD: Yes. So there's two areas at this point that we understand the Israeli military is working in Zeitoun in central Gaza. Also Jabalya, this is the refugee camp in the northern parts of Gaza. 
 
It's an area that the Israeli military in the past had believed they had cleared of Hamas militants, Hamas operatives. But we're now hearing that they have intelligence that some, as they say, Hamas terrorists are moving north, they are trying to regroup. They are trying to re-establish themselves in that area.
 
And the military says that it is trying to prevent that. So they've actually given evacuation orders to areas of Jabalya as well. 
 
So you do see some people trying to move out of that area and it really points to the issue that were hearing as well from some Biden administration officials this Sunday that there are concerns that Hamas cannot be defeated, that we heard Secretary of State Antony Blinken, for example, tell CBS that even if they do manage to destroy some more of the Hamas infrastructure, they could be facing Hamas insurgency or if they leave Rafah for example there could be a vacuum of chaos which Hamas would, then fill, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Paula Hancocks. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Coming up, a manhunt is underway for a suspect who allegedly ambushed, shot, and killed an Ohio police officer.
 
Plus 35 million people are under a severe weather threat today, the cities at risk for large hail, tornadoes an d flooding, all next. 
 <br>[14:13:26]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Authorities in Ohio are searching for the suspect who ambushed and killed a police officer. The officer was responding to a disturbance call in the Cleveland suburb of Euclid when the suspect identified as 24-year-old Deshawn Anthony Vaughn shot the officer. 
 
The officer was taken to a hospital, but died from his injuries. Multiple agencies have joined the search for Vaughn. The investigation into the shooting is ongoing.
 
Later today, a portion of Baltimore's Francis Scott Key Bridge is scheduled to be demolished using precision explosives. U.S. Coast Guard officials say these small blasts will break apart massive chunks of the bridge structure from a top the Dali cargo ship. 
 
The vessel which weighs more than 200 million pounds lost power on March 26 and struck a pillar supporting the bridge causing it to completely collapsed into the Patapsco River.
 
Last week officials recovered the body of the sixth and final victim. If all goes according to plan now, the Dali could be refloated and returned to the port of Baltimore as soon as this week, according to our affiliate WBAL. Severe weather takes aim at Texas once again. 35 million people are at risk for damaging winds, large hail and tornadoes in the days to come. It was just a week ago when that part of the state saw flood levels not seen since Hurricane Harvey in 2017. 
 
Let's bring and CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar -- I'm having a hard time talking there. 
 
Ok, so they have barely dried out from all of that rain. And there was a whole lot of other stuff in the system. And now its back to severe weather again.
 <br>[14:19:51]
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Right. I mean, they got a little bit of a brief reprieve to be able to start the cleanup process. But now were going to be adding even more rain back on top of it. 
 
We've also got some watches, the yellow color here indicating a severe thunderstorm watch. That's valid until 3:00 p.m. Central Time today.
 
The red newly-issued tornado watch that is valid until 7:00 p.m. Central Time today because you can start to see a lot of these showers and thunderstorms really beginning to fire back up. And then they're shifting off towards the east as we go through the day.
 
And then even the next couple of days you've got some threats here that are going to continue with damaging winds, large hail, we've already had reports of golf ball-sized hail. That's likely to continue through the next few days as well. And even the possibility of tornadoes.
 
Here's a look this afternoon. Again, you can see the bulk of it around east Texas and into Louisiana. By the time we get to the overnight hours now its shifting more into Mississippi and even Alabama to start off the morning tomorrow. 
 
That morning commute is going to be pretty soggy for places like Atlanta back through Montgomery, Alabama and down through Biloxi and even Mobile. So keep that in mind.
 
Then by the afternoon that next round of severe weather really starts to fire up late afternoon and that will continue into the evening and even the overnight hours. And that's why you've got that double threat there. 
 
But also the potential for flooding. We've got flood watches and even some flash flood warnings in effect. But all of these dots represent those river gauges. Even going into the day-to-day before the rain started, we still have I have several river gauges that are at flood stage. 
 
Five of them moderate, two of them at major flood stage. And that's going to continue with that potential for that excessive rainfall. And unfortunately, Fred, it is focused across many of those exact same areas that got all of that flooding last week. WHITFIELD: Oh my gosh. They cannot get a break. All right. Thanks so
 
 much, Allison Chinchar.
 
All right. Get ready for something. Donald Trump teased something at yesterday's campaign rally. Could a VP pick be on the way. How the Veep stakes is shaping up next.
 <br>[14:21:40]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: President Biden calling Donald Trump, unhinged. He made the remarks at a private fundraiser last night, but Biden also admitted the November election is going to be close. 
 
CNN's Kevin Liptak is traveling with the president in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. Kevin good to see you today. So what else did President Biden say about Donald Trump?
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, you're really starting to see President Biden hone his attacks on Trump at these closed-door fundraisers, really sharpening his criticism yesterday at this fundraiser in Seattle, even going after the former president's mental state. He said that when he lost, speaking about Trump, when he lost in 2020, something snapped in him. 
 
President Biden went on to say, "He's not only obsessed with losing in 2020, he's clearly unhinged." So you hear the president really starting to sharpen his criticism of President Trump. 
 
Of course, he was on this three-day fundraising swing on the West Coast. Really looking to maintain that cash advantage that he holds over his Republican rival. These fundraisers on the West Coast brought in $10 million. Really that has been one of the unquestionable bright spots for the Biden campaign is their cash advantage at the end of march, which is the last time we had filing records for these candidates.
 
President Biden had almost twice as much cash on hand as former president Trump. And you really do see the Biden campaign putting that to good use. 
 
They recently announced a $14 million television ad buy targeting black voters and Latinos and battleground states. You also see them opening up offices in battleground states, really starting to staff up. 
 
Now president Trump is trying to close that gap and you have seen him hold a number of fundraisers over the last several weeks that brought in tens of millions of dollars. 
 
Former president Trump's advisors are telling their donors that they brought in $76 million in April. We don't have figures for President Biden yet.
 
But we are learning today about a new effort that Biden's campaign is taking to maintain that cash advantage. In June, he will attend a fundraiser in Los Angeles. It will be headlined by George Clooney, Julia Roberts and former president Obama, so really bringing out the star wattage as this campaign continues, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Kevin Liptak, thank you so much.
 
lip deck. 
 
Thank you so much. 
 
All right. 
 
I want to bring in now Republican strategist, and CNN political commentator Shermichael Singleton. Good to see you.
 
SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Good to see you. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right, so while President Biden, you know, has been out campaigning, fundraising, now taking some direct digs at the former president Donald Trump. While he's been spending multiple days a week in a New York courtroom. 
 
But Donald Trump is also on television every single day. Do you think he is using this opportunity by being on everyone's broadcast every day, daily throughout the day to his advantage.
 
SINGLETON: I mean, Fred, talk about an impeccable opportunity here, free earned media. I think the former president needs to have or do a better job of utilizing these opportunities to his advantage. 
 
Oftentimes you hear him complain about how cold the court is. He talks about how terrible the judge is. He talks about how it's a sham trial. 
 
We all know those things, but I think the direct message to the American people should be, if I were advising a former president, Fred is to talk about the economy. 
 
Fareed Zakaria had an opinion piece that came out Friday on CNN, and he talked about how on the question of whom voters trust the most on the economy, it was Donald Trump by 22 points, a 15-point bump from 2020. 
 <br>[14:29:45]
 
SINGLETON: So there's seriously something happening here with the average hardworking American that believes that Trump is a better alternative to handle things that are impacting them more so than President Biden. 
 
WHITFIELD: And I wonder how are you gauging whether any of the testimony in Trump's trial has in any way influenced voters who are on the fence about whether to, you know, lean toward Trump or Biden.
 <br>[14:30:11]
 
SINGLETON:  You know, look, I think people have probably heard some of them more salacious allegations or testimony, but I'm not convinced that this point that people are swayed one way or the other. I'm not convinced that people are surprised to be quite honest with you, and when you talk to average voters about these things. And I've done a number of focus groups and some of these topics have come up and people said, well, you know, I'm not surprised. Donald Trump is Donald Trump. I like them or I don't like him.
 
So I'm not convinced that we will see a statue numerical impact on this in terms of November, were voters who like Trump all of a sudden going to see what now I'm switching to Biden and those who like or may not like Biden also, I'm going to switch to Trump. I think people are aware they are for it for the most part, the question for me as a strategist, looking at some of those battleground states, what -- what number -- what member rather can increase their turnout for voters who are absolutely in their corner, and what individual is going to struggle or trying to maintain increase. And I think right now, we're seeing that President Biden probably is a bit disadvantage to that question. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Okay. Let's talk possible Trump running mates. North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum is a rumor to be on Trump's VP shortlist and listen to what Trump said about Burgum last night. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT &amp; 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You won't find anybody better than this gentleman in terms of his knowledge of, you know, he made his money in technology, but he probably knows more about energy than anybody I know. So get ready for something, okay? Just get ready. But Doug Burgum has been incredible.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD:  Do you think governor burger would be a smart VP pick for Trump? Is this something that Trump says, you know, look out, we've got something coming?
 
SINGLETON:  I think, Fred, that's an interesting choice to me. I mean, I respect to Governor Burgum. He's an incredible businessman. I think the guy has a billion-dollar company. So clearly, he knows how to lead and lead potentially well. 
 
But when I think about what I would probably look for in a vice presidential running mate, in this moment where this is going to be a close race, I'm not really looking for a Doug Burgum. I'm looking for someone like maybe Brian Sandoval, the former governor of Nevada. He's Hispanic. The Latino community is now the largest minority group in the country. They are going to have an outsized impact potentially on the race in November. So I'm looking, Fredricka, for someone to sort of be disruptive, but in a positive sense, someone who's going to excite voters who are supporting Trump, but also those were on a fence who are looking for something to encourage them the turnout in November. I'm just not sure that Doug Burgum is that person. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Hmm, okay. We shall see if that's the something soon to be announced. All right. Shermichael Singleton. Thanks so much. 
 
SINGLETON:  Good to see you, Fred. Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Thank you. 
 
All right. So, is technology erasing human creativity, did you see this? 
 
How Apple's latest iPad Pro ad is stoking fears about artificial intelligence.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:37:49]
 
WHITFIELD:  An Apple ad released this week for its new iPad Pro, has some saying the tech giant cross the line. 
 
The ad starts off as a sort of time capsule, including artistry tools. There's a metronome, a record player, and then the lights come on in a warehouse-like room where you see those items and dozens of musical instruments on a metal slab in the center of the shot. Watch this.
 
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
 
WHITFIELD:  Oh, boy. That did not sit well with a lot of people. In fact, critics say it celebrates technology's destruction of human creativity in the age of artificial intelligence and in an apology, Apple says, the ad missed the mark.
 
Joining me right now is Phil Siegel. He is the founder of the Center for Advanced Preparedness and threat response stimulation. 
 
Good to see you. 
 
So even with the apology from Apple, can they put that genie back in the bottle or did they frighten some people a little bit too much, who were already reticent about the whole A.I. thing?
 
PHIL SIEGEL, FOUNDER, CENTER FOR ADVANCED PREPAREDNESS &amp; THREAT RESPONSE SIMULATION:  Yeah, I think that this was probably an honest mistake. I think the message they were trying to convey was that if you're a creator, all of the tools you need are contained in this nice little flat device that we can sell to you. But it came across as we've crushed your, your hopes and dreams by creating this technology that can replace you.
 
And, you know, I don't think that's what they intend -- I'm sure that's not what they intended. 
 <br>[14:40:02]
 
But I can see why people might have interpreted that way. And, you know, it's very important for these tech companies to understand that there's a lot of reticence right now and they have to be careful. WHITFIELD:  When you think for a company as big as Apple that maybe they had in their committee of people someone in the room before this actually went, you know, public, someone who may have felt a little uneasy about, or maybe even a musician in the bunch. I mean, I'm kind of surprised this got them as far.
 
SIEGEL:  Yeah. I mean, its very possible. The interesting thing is the first job I had out of college was working at an advertising agency interestingly enough, Fredricka, and we always would have somebody, a customer, a user, or something, look at ads, so that the creative department could, could get some feedback. 
 
It's very possible that they were under some kind of time pressure, who knows, but somebody nobody stepped up and said, wait, wait a minute, and this probably isn't the right message. 
 
WHITFIELD:  So I wonder if anything does this serve as an example, maybe a learning tool for a lot of companies who want to get on board and embrace artificial intelligence. Yet at the same time have to allay the fears of people who feel like they're being replaced. I mean what our company is going to do as they try to strike some balance, they want to go forward, be modern, but at the same time they don't want people well feel like they're, you know, replaceable.
 
SIEGEL:  Yeah. Fredricka, I think you've hit the nail exactly on the head, which is these companies are very excited about what they built and how the technology is going to push everything progress forward and make our lives easier and better. 
 
But they have to actually at the same time, understand the reticence and the fear that some of these tools put in peoples mind's. And they have to be much more aware of that, both in terms of how they build the products and how the products work. Having these models have biases that people don't like and so forth. All of that chips away at the trust and they, right now, having trust in these tools is what's going to maximize the uptake that they get with consumers and with businesses. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Just last week, the president made a rather big commitment, right to A.I. while visiting in Wisconsin -- Wisconsin, rather. Chinas so far ahead of the U.S. in regards to A.I., the use of the technology to support it, et cetera. 
 
So how significant in your view is it for this White House -- you know, to I guess extension all of branch, if you will, to the companies doing business with A.I. or promoting A.I. 
 
How important is that in the messaging? 
 
SIEGEL:  Yeah, I think there's really kind of two things at the same time here, the announcement last week was more of a political announcement. If you recall that particular site was a site that the previous president had had a gathering when a company he called Foxconn was going to build a facility there to make, I believe LED panels and then that really didn't pan out. And so now, Microsoft is taking that location. It's really -- the specifics are importance of Microsoft building a
 
 data center is not very high. They already have close to 200 datacenters in the U.S., but the political point that was made, especially in a swing state like Wisconsin I think had some gravitas. 
 
Now, the other point you're making, you know, how should the government be embracing A.I. You know, it's a fine line. They have to both embrace it, but also be ready and willing to make sure that these companies are being responsible, that they are, you know, building these tools in a way that are not going to harm, but are going to be for good and that's, that, you know, that's -- there's a lot of work to do to make that a reality. 
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. Phil Siegel, great to see you. Thanks so much.
 
SIEGEL:  Thanks, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD:  We'll be right back.
 
SIEGEL:  Have a good day. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:49:03]
 
WHITFIELD:  All right. This week, we're bringing you stories of ordinary people who are dramatically changing the way we do business in technology, the arts and commerce. These champions for change are quietly reshaping the world.
 
Today, we meet a former fashion designer who returned to her Navajo roots and now she's adapting indigenous values to apparel, giving back and remodeling an industry.
 
BEGIN VIDSEOTAPE)
 
AMY DENET DEAL, 4KINSHIP FOUNDER:  Everything we do here at the shop is based on working with vintage -- things that have already been here on the planet.
 
So that's a way just for me to really approach sustainability from an indigenous lens.
 
I was an active wear designer for major corporations. I decided to leave corporate fashion and start my own company back in 2015. I re- branded in 2021 to the name 4Kinship.
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
My indigenuity has been really a big part of how the brand has evolved.
 
Growing up in Indiana in a very rural area, being adopted into a white family, but being native, there's always avoid and as I got older, it became a stronger need for me to really know my identity so I've found my mom and birth family. It's just been this continual journey of learning more about all those sides of my family is in their stories. 
 
It came with understandings, not just saying, I'm part of my community, but actually putting that into motion taking action, it's just wonderful to find ways to be part of a positive change in our community. 
 
Kids in the remote areas of Navajo nation, they have so few resources. So we've built a skate park, skateboarding is there in so many ways as a support that can really truly help the mental health and wellness are for kids.
 
Just FYI, I had no idea what I was doing when I thought, oh, lets fill the skate park, but there's so many things that we can be creative as native people by simply re-imagining stuff that we already have.
 
For our young people, a lot of them don't know people within creative industries that could help them. So I think that is my job as someone that comes from the outside, that comes back with different gifts is to use that to create purchase.
 
BRYAN ROESSEL, DESIGNER:  I met Amy Denet Deal through the Navajo cultural arts program. 
 
She just wants to put this foot on made of our native fashion. And that allows me to freedom to kind of step outside the box.
 
DEAL:  There's so many makers that haven't had space in other places to sell that we open our house to that opportunity for them to get a start. 
 
It's a really beautiful compilation of all different tribes coming together in the shop fun part of my job is to revolutionize the performance space for indigenous peoples. 
 
Please, Deborah, take this off. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I love this. 
 
DEAL:  This is --  
 
It's a new way to reinvest in our young people because instead of creating events that make money for the event organizer is to create events that distribute to the performers that creatives that are part of that show.
 
I've been in the fashion industry for a long time and to actually be in this place to honor my indigenuity and to practice reciprocity for everything that we take, we find a way to give back.
 
So we are a sustainable brand that simply found ways to be of service through everything I do, through my creative world. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  Okay. Nothing ordinary there that is extraordinary. 
 
Be sure to tune in next Saturday at 9:00 p.m. eastern for the champions for change, one hour special.
 
All right. Coming up at Israel intensified strikes across Gaza. As U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken warrants that invading Rafah will mean a lot of civilian casualties, but won't destroy Hamas.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:58:14]
 
WHITFIELD:  Forestry workers in Illinois are using an unusual way to teach people about the cicada invasion about to hit much of the U.S.
 
Here is CNN's Jeanne Moos. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It's the next best thing --  
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Same block out of this or, you know, take a break. Okay. 
 
MOOS:  -- to having a cicada crawl on you.
 
RAJU:  Oh. Oh my God.
 
MOOS:  To prepare Illinois residents for the thrumming 17-year cicada invasion that's about to occur.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And emerge when the temperatures are right, it is roughly around 64 degrees soil temperature.
 
MOOS:  Employees from the DuPage County Forest Preserve --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And they will crawl out of their exoskeletal shell.
 
MOOS:  Recreated the life cycle of cicadas. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Their wings because this really bright orange.
 
MOOS:  Complete with red eyes and cardboard and cellophane wings.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The males will crawl up to the tops of the trees and start singing to attract mates.
 
MOOS:  Jennifer Redzewski play the lead female cicada in a video she describes as --
 
JENNIFER REDZEWSKI, ENVIRONMENTAL INTERPRETER, DUPAGE COUNTY FOREST PRESERVE:  Really cheesy and you know, kind of low quality, but intentionally so.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  She will flick the wings at him and they mate.
 
MOOS:  The video went viral. "This is cicada gold." "Educational and unhinged."
 
Everyone's favorite part was an insect pickup line, adlibbed by a Ranger named, Smoky --
 
SMOKY, RANGER:  Say, girl, if I was a fruit fly, I'd land on you first because you're so sweet.
 
MOOS:  The female lays eggs on a branch, kisses them goodbye. They hatch, portrayed with dazzling special effects.
 
MOOS:  What was your whole budget for this thing?
 
REDZEWSKI:  Basically zero dollars.
 
MOOS:  They snack on trees sap, then fall back to earth.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They will start burrowing into the ground.
 
MOOS:  Where they feed on plant roots.