Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Package Locks in Financing for Kyiv until the end of 2027; EU Leaders Agree on more than $50B Funding for Ukraine; 114 Palestinian Detainees held in Israel Returned to Gaza; Cost of Fuel in Cuba will soon Skyrocket 500 Percent; Graham to Tech CEOs: "You have Blood on Your Hands"; PGA Tour Launches $3 Billion Player Equity Program. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired February 01, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this is the scene outside the European Parliament in Brussels this hour, where farmers from 
 
 across the continent are protesting over the cost of living and regulations. It's 3 pm in Brussels it is 6 pm here in Abu Dhabi. This is 
 
 your Gulf Programming Hub. I'm Becky Anderson. You're watching "Connect the World".
 
Also happening this hour, European Leaders agreed to a major Ukraine support package worth more than $50 billion. The Palestine Red Crescent 
 
 Society says IDF troops entered its Headquarters in Khan Yunis for a third time as battles continue in the area. And speculation grows over the future 
 
 of Formula One Superstar Lewis Hamilton more on that is coming up and the markets in New York.
 
Well, the markets in New York will open in about 30 minutes from now. And the futures there as you can see them indicating the stocks will open 
 
 higher this Thursday following what was I have to say a rocky day on Wednesday after the Fed held rates steady. And it signaled that a March cut 
 
 in interest rates is unlikely at this point.
 
But it was shocked to the markets they'd been expecting to see an indication that rate cutting cycle would begin. Investors didn't like it 
 
 and they sold those stocks. A better opening expected today more on that, as we get it. 
 
Well, European Union members have agreed on a major support package for Ukraine worth over $50 billion. That decision to extend financing is a huge 
 
 boost for Ukraine and its war against Russia. Excuse me, the EU package looks locked in financing for Kyiv until the end of 2027. Excuse me, in a 
 
 post on X, European Council President Charles Michel said the EU is taking leadership and responsibility in support for Ukraine. We know what is at 
 
 stake he said. Excuse me.
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy praises the EU Leaders for agreeing to the deal. In a post on X he says it proves the EU is strongly united. 
 
 Well, the funding comes at a critical time for Mr. Zelenskyy. Sources tell CNN that Ukraine's Popular Army Chief Valerii Zaluzhnyi (ph) was called 
 
 into a meeting on Monday and told he was being fired. An announcement is expected by the end of the week.
 
Right, let's bring in CNN's Fred Pleitgen, he's in Kyiv and Melissa Bell is in Paris. Fred, let's start with you. Let's just explain how important this 
 
 aid package is to Ukraine at this point?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's extremely important to the Ukrainians. And you've already noted Becky some 
 
 of the size of relief and the tanks that the EU has been getting from Ukrainian Leaders, obviously from Volodymyr Zelenskyy from the President 
 
 also from the Foreign Minister as well. 
 
And I think it's very important for the Ukrainians on three levels. On the one hand, the Ukrainians need ammunition and arms as fast as possible 
 
 because the Russians do have a big advantage on the battlefield there. 
 
But also the fact that this ensures a steady stream of Ukrainian supplies or U.S. supplies for Ukraine until 2027 does allow the Ukrainians to plan a 
 
 little bit and give them a little more of security that they are going to be getting a steady stream of ammunition and also of weapons in the years 
 
 to come.
 
And then of course, there's the political signal as well as. Right now, you still in U.S. Congress have a lot of uncertainty about whether or not 
 
 Ukraine aid is going to be okay there? Whether or not the Ukrainians are going to get additional arms from the United States before the Presidential 
 
 election in November?
 
Right now, that signal from the European Union that the EU is united on that issue, and the Ukrainians do have the support of the European Union. I 
 
 think it's extremely important not just for the Ukrainian battle here on the frontline, but certainly also in the political realm as well, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Got you. Let's get you folks to Melissa. I've cleared my throat now so at least I can speak to you, Melissa. This deal, how did it come 
 
 about? And just explain what happened with regard Hungary? Viktor Orban of course, was a holdout until the very last minute on this.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right. What we've seen in December was this deal entirely blocked this newest tranche 
 
 50 billion euros now released by this meeting of European Leaders who had been blocked by Viktor Orban. He had the right to oppose it to oppose his 
 
 veto to it and listen, he did. There had been suspicions that he'd done so for political reasons.
 
Becky beyond his ideological reasons for not wanting to support that much money coming from common European budgets at this time. And what he got 
 
 were concessions that went in his direction for instance, the fact that there will be an annual discussion now at the European Union level about 
 
 this that there will be a review every two years of the amount with regard to the broader European budget.
 
Those are the concessions he obtained. But there had been fears or concerns or suspicions rather, that he's holding up. This money was also to do with 
 
 his own bargaining with the European Union over some frozen funds that were destined for Budapest held back over concerns about issues to do with how 
 
 Viktor Orban has been running his government the laws that have been changed and that Brussels had objected to.
 
So now that this has been released clearly big news for Ukraine, but also a relief for the European Union that it felt rather held hostage by one 
 
 single one of its political leaders, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Meanwhile, at the EU or the parliament there, there is a major protest with farmers going on. Just explain why and what's the latest?
 
BELL: Well, what we've seen over the last few days is really that farmers' movement across the European Union. I deepen the anger growing Becky the 
 
 momentum are gaining it seemed in so many European capitals and now that anger being taken all the way to Brussels. 
 
This was a summit that was meant to be entirely devoted to Ukraine. And instead, this has now forced itself onto leader's agendas. They will be 
 
 discussing what the European Union can do to try and go in the direction of some of these demands being made by farmers.
 
Now, some demands are very specific to the countries in which they're being made. But what European farmers do have in common is a growing sense of 
 
 anger. The European Union and the subsidies, the way its subsidy program runs. 
 
The rules and restrictions and growing regulations it places on farmers, even as they say fails to protect them from unfair competition from the 
 
 outside and so this anger that you're seeing outside in the streets of Brussels, very unusual to see it in the Belgian Capital there also forcing 
 
 the issue on two leader's plates we expect to hear some kind of movement from the European level. 
 
We've already been hearing this afternoon from Gabriel Attal, the French Prime Minister and the farming. The Agriculture Minister here in France 
 
 announcing concessions 150 million euros worth of help to farmers really trying to get them to back down the stranglehold being caused around Paris.
 
Now as a result of what the farmers have described as a siege, causing a great deal of disruption already and they threatened that they -- intended 
 
 to carry on, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: We continue to watch that story. Thank you. Let me bring back Fred, who's in Kyiv. While you have been there, you've been hearing reports 
 
 about Zelenskyy sacking his top commander, what more do we know at this point, Fred?
 
PLEITGEN: Yeah, that's still something that is up in the air. And I think right now all of Kyiv political Kyiv, if you will and also certainly the 
 
 military as well are in a bit of a holding pattern waiting to see what exactly is going to happen there.
 
There are sources who have told CNN that apparently there was a meeting between Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the President of this country and his Top 
 
 General, Valerii Zaluzhnyi that took place on Monday, where Zelenskyy apparently told Zaluzhnyi that he was out. But so far there has not been 
 
 any sort of official announcement.
 
Of course, there are some folks who are being talked about as possible successors to Valerii Zaluzhnyi. One of them is the land forces commander 
 
 but another one is the head of the Military Intelligence of Ukraine. His name is Kyrylo Budanov. He's probably one of the most hated people by 
 
 Moscow and by the Russian military. I actually had a chance to sit down with him. And here's what he told me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): With Ukraine facing a Russian onslaught in many frontline areas, Kyiv says continued U.S. military aid is more important 
 
 than ever Ukraine's military Intel Chief tells. 
 
KYRYLO BUDANOV, HEAD, UKRAINIAN DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE: Shells are one of the most decisive factors in this war. It's about quantity, not so much the 
 
 quality as the quantity. Next there are assault aircraft. These are aircraft of the type that the United States has like the A-10 Thunderbolt 
 
 II and so on. This is what can really help inflict a military defeat.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): But further military aid to Ukraine hangs in the balance as Democrats accuse Former President Trump of derailing a possible 
 
 compromise. Budanov says he's not concerned about Trump.
 
BUDANOV: He is an experienced person. He has fallen many times and gotten back up again. And this is a very serious trait. To say that he and the 
 
 Republican Party are lovers of the Russian Federation is complete nonsense.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): But the Russians are currently on the offensive. On the front lines we've seen Kyiv's forces suffering a severe lack of 
 
 ammunition struggling to hold the line. Still, Budanov says he believes the tides will turn and Ukraine will attack.
 
BUDANOV: In my opinion, the main events on the battlefield will start happening sometime in the spring or early summer.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Vladimir Putin wants Kyrylo Budanov dead. The Ukrainian says Moscow tried to assassinate him at least 10 times. Recently 
 
 Budanov's wife and several bodyguards fell ill after what Kyiv says was poisoning by a quote heavy metal but they survived.
 
The Military Intelligence Directorate is said to be behind an increasing number of cross border attacks, targeting key infrastructure inside Russia 
 
 and the occupied territories. While never claiming responsibility Budanov tells me Russians can rest assured the war has come to them.
 
BUDANOV: I believe that the plan includes all major critical infrastructure facilities and military infrastructure facilities of the Russian 
 
 Federation.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): With Ukraine's offensive essentially stagnant the Kremlin is currently feasting on rumors Ukrainian President Volodymyr 
 
 Zelenskyy is close to firing his top General Valerii Zaluzhnyi and possibly installing Budanov as his successor, the spy chief coy (ph).
 
PLEITGEN: Isn't that something that weakens the country if it appears as though the president and his top general are not on the same page?
 
BUDANOV: I am also the head of one of the military agencies. I personally have no conflict with anyone.
 
PLEITGEN: You know people were talking about you possibly being the new general.
 
BUDANOV: If I was appointed yesterday, would we be meeting?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): So as you can see there Becky, not much in the way of clarity on that issue from the Military Spy Chief of Ukraine Kyrylo 
 
 Budanov. And one thing I can tell you is right now everybody here in the Ukrainian Capital is waiting to hear if there is going to be any 
 
 announcement on the future of General Valerii Zaluzhnyi, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Understood. 4:12 in the afternoon there. It is 6:12 here in Abu Dhabi and a quick reminder thank you. You can continue to follow all of the 
 
 major developments on the European Union's decision to extend that $50 billion in aid to Ukraine the rest of our headlines all at CNN's digital 
 
 platforms, our global team covering this story from a variety of perspectives throughout the day. You know where you can find that content. 
 
Well, the Palestine Red Crescent Society says IDF troops entered its headquarters in Khan Yunis in Gaza for a third time on Thursday with 
 
 Israeli tanks still stationed on the street outside. CNN is unable to verify their claims but the IDF confirms it is continuing operations in 
 
 Khan Yunis.
 
Well, the aid group also says Israeli forces have now left the grounds of the Al Amal Hospital. It shared this video which it says shows gunfire and 
 
 explosions around the hospital on Tuesday, the day Israeli forces entered the complex. 
 
Meantime, we're hearing that 114 Palestinian detainees who had been held in Israel have been released and entered Gaza. Jeremy Diamond is live in Tel 
 
 Aviv. Jeremy, as I understand this has got nothing to do with the wider deal for Palestinian prisoners to be exchanged for Israeli hostages of 
 
 course, which is sitting with the Hamas group likely Egypt at present? What do we know about what's been going on today?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, it appears that would be more related to what we've been seeing Israeli forces doing in Gaza and 
 
 that is of the mass detention of Palestinian men and boys in particular, although some women including four women were included in this release of 
 
 Palestinian detainees sent back to Gaza via that Kerem Shalom crossing earlier today.
 
According to the Gaza crossing authority, the Israeli military for its part has not confirmed these releases. But what we do know has been happening is 
 
 that in areas where the Israeli military has been conducting clearing operations in particular those areas where they had directed civilians to 
 
 evacuate. They have been detaining Palestinian men in particular, and then taking them to Israel for further questioning.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
The Israeli military for its part has said that these are individuals suspected of terror activity, although what we have learned and what these 
 
 releases also tell us is that there are dozens if not hundreds of those individuals who have been detained who are ultimately deemed to be 
 
 civilians who have no ties whatsoever to a Palestinian militant activity inside of Gaza.
 
In fact my team and I witnessed over the weekend two dozen Palestinian men who had been detained by Israeli forces in Gaza and we're actually going in 
 
 the reverse direction being brought into Israel for that questioning.
 
Now beyond that what we do know today is that the Israeli military and Hamas have continued intense fighting in the area of Khan Yunis where a 
 
 little over a week into that major Israeli offensive in the western part of Khan Yunis which is not only significant for the military aspect that the 
 
 Israeli military after dismantling Hamas' command and controllability they say in Northern and Central Gaza is also very much trying to accomplish 
 
 that in Khan Yunis. 
 
But also that that military activity has been taking place in an area where thousands of displaced Palestinians have been sheltering at several of the 
 
 hospitals in the area, including Nasser Hospital as well as Al Amal Hospital and the Palestine Red Crescent Society Headquarters.
 
As you mentioned the Palestine Red Crescent Society said that the Israeli forces entered their building today. What they are also saying is that they 
 
 have now actually left the courtyard of the Al Amal Hospital where the Palestine Red Crescent Society said Israeli tanks had been posted the last 
 
 couple of days, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Jeremy Diamond, good to have you, sir. Thank you. Well, there are signs that the spillover effects of this war the escalating attacks on U.S. 
 
 forces in the region and Houthi attacks on shipping interests have Iran's leaders concerned. Multiple contexts familiar with U.S. intelligence tell 
 
 CNN that Iran is nervous about a direct confrontation with the U.S. and wants to avoid one.
 
Well, this follows the drone attack in Jordan by Iranian proxies that killed three U.S. troops last weekend. An ongoing Houthi attacks in the Red 
 
 Sea, including a cruise missile that came very close to a U.S. warship. Natasha Bertrand is connecting us from the Pentagon.
 
There will be people from this region who may say this feels like or certainly sounds like wishful thinking on the part of U.S. intelligence. 
 
 The fact that Iran is concerned about what happens next. It's very unclear from this perspective through this lens about where Tehran stands in all of 
 
 this? But certainly we've got some good new reporting. Natasha, just explain.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yeah. And to be sure there is no evidence that Iran is necessarily going to make some big 
 
 changes here, right to try to rein in its proxy groups even further there. It really remains to be seen how Iran is actually going to deal with this.
 
But what we're told is that they are increasingly concerned, increasingly nervous about the kinds of escalations that their proxy forces are 
 
 conducting in Iraq, Syria and Yemen, particularly because the Iranians don't want to get into a direct confrontation with the United States.
 
They don't want to back the U.S. into a corner with some kind of attack or escalation that then forces the U.S. to respond in a very significant way. 
 
 And that drone attack on Sunday that killed three Americans that the U.S. has blamed on Iran-backed militias in Iraq. That is one of those 
 
 situations, where the U.S. now feels of course compelled to respond very significantly.
 
And that is something that Iran had been hoping to avoid we are told. Yes, they support train equip these militias in Iraq and Syria. They expect them 
 
 to harass to launch attacks on U.S. and coalition forces. But that is really the extent of it. They want them to kind of be a thorn in their side 
 
 so that the U.S. ultimately pulls out of the region, but not so much that it results in a direct U.S. strike against or inside Iran.
 
And so this is where the concern and nervousness comes from. And then separately, they are concerned were told about the Houthis activities in 
 
 Yemen because of the fact that they are launching these attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea and that is angering China and India who 
 
 are two of Iran's of course closest and really only allies.
 
And so the combination of all of this is raising concerns that there are escalation issues here. And also of course that it could hurt Tehran's 
 
 bottom line in the long run.
 
ANDERSON: And we continue to see incidents in the area. There is no doubt that there is no evidence of the spillover of the conflict in Gaza. Thank 
 
 you. Well, Chicago calling for a ceasefire in Gaza in a break away from President Biden's Middle East strategy. The City Council passed what is a 
 
 non-binding resolution on Wednesday with a narrow margin after the City's Mayor casts the breaking vote.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
The result makes Chicago the latest and largest City Council in America to pass a resolution calling for a ceasefire alongside those of Detroit, San 
 
 Francisco and Atlanta. Well still ahead, a temporary reprieve for Cuba's people. Fuel costs that were set to enter the stratosphere today while 
 
 they've been delayed somewhat, we'll see what's causing that delay to what was a dreaded and massive price hike.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: 22 minutes past 6 here from our Gulf Programming Hub. I'm Becky Anderson. Cuban officials say a massive hike in fuel prices will not take 
 
 effect today. They say a cyberattack on government computers is delaying the move. That millions that has to be said have been dreading since it was 
 
 announced late last year.
 
There had been a run on fuel ahead of the expected to astronomical spike in prices increases to the tune of 500 percent. Cuban officials say the price 
 
 hike will still happen once quote conditions are met for the increase. CNN's Patrick Oppmann reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Even before the sun comes up people lined up for hours in Havana to pump gas. The Cuban 
 
 government owns every gas station on this island and says they will raise prices at the pump more than an eye watering 500 percent.
 
News of the massive hike triggered a run on fuel before the increase takes place, which is expected to further batter an already failing economy. You 
 
 don't need to have three -- one is enough to know this will be a disaster he tells me to fill up a car with 40 liters will cost 6000 pesos.
 
Most people don't earn that much in a month. For decades Cuba received oil donations from political allies in Venezuela and Russia which had then sold 
 
 to its citizens at rock bottom prices. But as a communist run Island weathers the worst economic crisis in decades. Cuban officials say 
 
 subsidies on gas are a luxury the government can no longer afford.
 
We're a country without fuel he says. And we sell fuel at perhaps the cheapest prices in the region, some of the cheapest in the world. But when 
 
 we raise the price of fuel, it's going to increase the cost of some service and the price of things. Already the fuel supplies dwindle, people wait for 
 
 hours to hitchhike and more and more commuters return to riding bicycles.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
Others push to get onto the ever scarce public transportation. With out-of- control inflation and the gas price hike, Cubans who only earn the equivalent of a few dollars a day may find themselves unable to afford 
 
 alive. 
 
OPPMANN: Some Cubans say as transportation becomes more and more expensive here, it could actually cost more to get to and from work each day and the 
 
 salary they bring home. 
 
OPPMANN (voice-over): An increase in fuel prices will also make it more expensive to transport food from the countryside to cities. A potentially 
 
 precarious situation says this man who resells fruits and vegetables from his small cart. Look how we are right now he says people are being 
 
 impacted. If it increases 1 percent more people will go crazy in the streets. 
 
Cuba's socialist government has long said and protects the most vulnerable here. But a stagnant centralized economy stalled reforms and increased U.S. 
 
 sanctions are forcing more and more into extreme poverty. The government has warned additional price hikes and cuts in services are in store. Many 
 
 hoped to be gone by the time that happens. 
 
Lines outside foreign embassies grew longer by the day as more Cubans tried to emigrate before the island's economy hits rock bottom. Patrick Oppmann, 
 
 CNN Havana.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. And in Myanmar the military regime says a state 
 
 of emergency will be extended for another six months. That announcement came three years after the army ousted the elected leader there Aung San 
 
 Suu Kyi. The head of the U.N. Antonio Guterres is urging authorities in Myanmar to return to democracy. 
 
A ship that was meant to carry 16,000 Australian sheep and cattle to the Middle East adopt briefly in an Australian port on Thursday to be cleaned 
 
 and resupplied. Israeli owned ship set out four weeks ago, but was ordered to turn around amid fears it could be attacked by Houthi rebels. It is now 
 
 standing offshore while Australian officials consider what to do next. 
 
Climate Activist Greta Thunberg is in London to face trial on a public disorder charge after she was arrested in an environment protest in 
 
 October. She and other protesters were charged for blocking entrances to a venue staging an oil and gas conference. Well, just ahead on "Connect the 
 
 World" plenty of anger in the United States.
 
Senate Chamber where social media top names were under fire well anything now be done to keep our kids safe online. And is the seventh time Formula 
 
 One World Champion on the move where Lewis Hamilton might just be headed after more than a decade with Mercedes. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. You are watching "Connect the World". And wherever you are watching, you are more 
 
 than welcome. Fed boss Jerome Powell says, we haven't reached a soft landing yet. His words the U.S. Central Bank Chief adding there's still a 
 
 ways to go before the U.S. economy defeats inflation without triggering a recession. 
 
Well, those words yesterday really knocked these stock markets. They had certainly looked as if they would recover somewhat today, and they have 
 
 done. But watch this space, because investors are very nervous about what's going on at present. Powell explaining why the Federal Reserve held 
 
 interest rates steady on Wednesday for a fourth time in a row.
 
That, of course disappointed investors who had been hoping not necessarily for a rate cut yesterday, but for an indication that there would be a rate 
 
 cut as early as March. And certainly that is not what they got. And the Bank of England is also holding fire leaving UK interest rates on hold. 
 
Well, U.S. senators on both sides of the aisle came out swinging at some of the world's most powerful social media executives and their companies. But 
 
 24 hours after accusations flew on Capitol Hill, the major question is still outstanding. What will big tech and lawmakers indeed do next to keep 
 
 our children safe online.
 
While the heads of X, TikTok, Snap, Meta, and Discord all testified on Wednesday about efforts to block material that exposes young users to 
 
 exploitation. And in what was a dramatic moment. Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg personally apologized to families of people harmed by social media. Here is 
 
 how that unfolded. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There are families of victims here today. Have you apologized to victims? Would you like to do so now? Well, they're here, 
 
 you're on national television. Would you like now to apologize to the victims who have been harmed, but you're not showing the pictures? Would 
 
 you like to apologize for what you've done to these good people? 
 
MARK ZUCKERBERG, CEO, META: I'm sorry for everything you have all been through. No one should have to go through the things that your families 
 
 have suffered and this is why we've invested so much and are going to continue doing industry-leading efforts to make sure that no one has to go 
 
 through the types of things that your families have had to suffer.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, CNN's Brian Fung was at the hearing. And he joins us now live from Washington. And there will be accusations that that was awkward 
 
 and lacked authenticity. I mean, you were there in the room. What was the atmosphere like?
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: Yeah, Becky, I have covered many tech CEO hearings over the years. And this one felt very, very different. Just 
 
 having the sheer number of parents of victims in the room, having them stand in front of Mark Zuckerberg as he was giving that apology, having 
 
 them stand silently holding up photos of their loved ones who had been harmed before the witnesses filed into the room. 
 
In a moment of silence that just dropped a huge hush over the entire room. You could hear a pin drop Becky it was just remarkable to see. And you 
 
 could even you know, feel that many of the lawmakers in the hearing were feeding off of that tension, that energy that these parents were bringing 
 
 to the room. 
 
I want to have you listen to a little bit of what Senator Lindsey Graham said to Mark Zuckerberg as he was laying into the executive about you know, 
 
 why the company hasn't done more to protect children online. Let's have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): Mr. Zuckerberg, you and the companies before us, I know you don't mean it to be so, but you have blood on your hands. 
 
 You have a product. You have a product that's killing people. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FUNG: And Becky, as you could sort of hear in that clip, there was a lot of applause on that line that happened repeatedly throughout the hearing, 
 
 applause, laughter at some of the tech CEOs testimony, hissing in some cases or jeering at their responses to lawmakers questions.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
And it really just amplified the tension in the room, you know, between what the tech CEOs were trying to say. And what, you know, the lawmakers 
 
 were questioned, the questions that the lawmakers were asking of these CEOs. So overall, you know, just a very tense and I would say unprecedented 
 
 type of hearing that we haven't seen before on Capitol Hill. 
 
ANDERSON: So you adroitly there, explain or describe the atmosphere in the room? Question is what happens next? What is the likelihood of any change 
 
 to legislation, anything actually happening that will help to ensure that children and youngsters are better protected from online exploitation? 
 
FUNG: That is the million dollar question, Becky. There are currently a number of bills before Congress, you know, tackling this issue. You know, 
 
 lawmakers extracted some commitments from some of the tech CEOs to support this legislation. For example, X said it would support the Kids Online 
 
 Safety Act, which is one of these hot button bills.
 
But as you pointed out, you know, there's a long road ahead for this legislation, much of it, although as by wide bipartisan support has not 
 
 gotten a vote on the Senate floor. The future of this legislation is uncertain in the House where many lawmakers, you know, particularly in the 
 
 GOP side of the chamber are struggling to pass basic legislation. 
 
So, I think there's, you know, a very strong sense of momentum from parents and families that you know, there's pressure now for action. Lawmakers say 
 
 that there's more momentum again for getting something done. 
 
ANDERSON: Right. 
 
FUNG: We've heard this before. We've heard this before.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you, sir. Thank you. Well, anger and frustration turned violent in Argentina on Wednesday. Protesters clashed with police 
 
 and military in the streets around Argentina's Congress with reports. The tear gas was so used clear crowds there. Workers unions, human rights 
 
 groups and others have gathered to protest economic and social reforms being debated by Congress. 
 
The sweeping modifications proposed by the newly elected President Javier Milei include austerity measures and widely criticized tax increases on 
 
 some products, the so-called omnibus bill, part of the president's pledge to completely deregulate the economy and slash government spending as 
 
 Argentina battles record high inflation.
 
Well, the U.S. -- in the U.S. the Federal Aviation Administration says a team of two dozen aviation safety inspectors will oversee the production of 
 
 the Boeing 737 Max. That move comes after last month's midair cabin blowout on an Alaska Airlines Flight involving -- well, remember this, what's known 
 
 as a door plug. 
 
The FAA inspectors will be at both Boeing's Renton Washington facility and Spirit AeroSystems Kansas facility. Spirit makes the plane's fuselage. The 
 
 FAA initially grounded the 737 Max 9 following the blower incident but has since allowed them to fly again, pending rigorous inspections. Boeing CEO 
 
 says quote, we have much to prove, end quote. 
 
Well ahead on "World Sport", Lewis Hamilton's potential sharp move, why the F1 superstar may, just may be cutting ties with Mercedes, more on that 
 
 after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Now the PGA Tour has announced a multibillion dollar investment deal that will allow players to become equity holders. We'll get you the 
 
 details here. This first of its kind program called PGA Tour enterprises is funded by a syndicate of sports organizations worth up to $3 billion. The 
 
 tour says it will give golfers the chance to become owners of their league. 
 
It comes as the tour of course, continues to face stiff competition from LIV Golf, which has plucked a number of big name players with huge contract 
 
 offers. Well, the world of auto racing buzzing today over a potential blockbuster move. UK media reports linking seven times Formula One Champ 
 
 Lewis Hamilton to a shock switch from Mercedes to Ferrari. Could this be happening? That's for real and if so when? Amanda Davies joins me. Do we 
 
 know?
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Well, Becky you know, sometimes I bring you sports stories that make people go ooh, and then sometimes it's an ah. 
 
 This has made people do all of the above and then stop in their tracks. 
 
It's been brought up as a story time and time again over the years because of the history of Ferrari as a Formula One team. It's the team where 
 
 Michael Schumacher won the last five of his seven world titles.
 
And Lewis has openly talked about his admiration and appreciation of what they do and have done for the sport. But he as a seven time world champion 
 
 who has been at Mercedes for the last 11, 12 years since 2013 who signed a new contract midway through last year. That people thought was for two 
 
 years is now very much looking like a shift maybe on the cars sooner than expected. 
 
Ferrari have said nothing as yet. Mercedes have said nothing as yet, but these reports are growing and growing and growing. The Ferrari share price 
 
 has jumped to 6 percent with this news emerging. So we've got lots of talk about what it means, the timing of it where the Ferrari and Mercedes go 
 
 from here coming up in just a couple of minutes.
 
ANDERSON: Oh, terrific stuff. "World Sports" up next then with Amanda. I'll be back top of the hour for you, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END