Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Biden Holds Joint News Conference With Japanese PM. Aired 1:30- 2p ET

Aired April 10, 2024 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
FUMIO KISHIDA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translation): And again today, I told the president that now is the time to demonstrate the true values that Japan and the United States can offer as global partners.
 
That we must together fulfill our responsibilities to create a world where human dignity is upheld and that Japan will always stand firm with the United States.
 
I explained that, based on our national security strategy, Japan is determined to strengthen our defense force, the position of counters, stroke, capabilities, increase our defense budget and other initiatives. And was reassured by President Biden of his strong support for such efforts.
 
In such context, we confirmed again the urgency to further bolster the deterrence and response capabilities of our alliance and concurred on reinforcing our security and defense cooperation to increase interoperability between the U.S. forces and our self-defense forces, including the improvement of our respective command-and-control frameworks, 
 
We will be discussing the specifics as we plan for the next Japan-U.S. (INAUDIBLE).
 
The president and I went on to discuss various specific challenges faced by the international community. First, we confirmed that unilateral attempts to change status quo by force or coercion is absolutely unacceptable wherever it may be and that we will continue to respond resolutely against such action through corporation with allies and like-minded nations. 
 
From such perspective, we agreed that our two countries will continue to respond to challenges concerning China through close coordination. At the same time we confirmed the importance of continuing our dialogue with China and cooperating with China on common challenges. 
 
We also underscored the importance of peace and stability in the Taiwan Straits. And confirmed opposition to encourage peaceful resolution of the cross-straits issue.
 
The situation in North Korea, including nuclear and missile development, was brought up as. We welcome the progress seen in many areas of cooperation based on the outcome of the Japan-U.S. AUKUS (ph) summit last August and concurred to coordinate even more closely as we face serious concerns under the current state of affairs.
 
President Biden, once again, demonstrated his strong support towards the immediate resolution of the reduction issue. 
 
We reaffirmed the importance of realizing a free and open Indo-Pacific based on the rule of law and concur to maintain close collaboration through various opportunities, including the Japan-U.S.-Philippines summit, which is planned for tomorrow. 
 
Regarding Russia's aggression of Ukraine, based on a recognition that Ukraine today may be East Asia tomorrow, taking the issue as our own problem for Japan, I expressed our resolution to continue with stringent sanctions against Russia and strong support for Ukraine. And we concur to maintain close partnership with like-minded countries.
 
On the situation in the Middle East, I expressed my respect for the efforts of President Biden for the release of the hostage, improvement of the humanitarian situation, and for calming down the situation.
 
I then explained how Japan is continuing diplomatic efforts to improve the humanitarian situation and to realize a sustainable ceasefire and agree to continue the corporation towards the improvement of the situation, the realization of a two-state solution, and the stabilization of the vision.
 <br>[13:35:05]
 
Regarding the economy, we firstly concurred that for both of us to lead the global economic growth together, the promotion of investment in both directions is important. 
 
I explained, how the Japanese businesses are making a significant contribution to the U.S. economy by their investment and the creation of jobs, to which President Biden agreed.
 
In order to maintain and strengthen the competitive edge in the area of advanced technologies and to respond appropriately to issues such as economic conversion, non-market policies and practices and excess capacities and to overcome the vulnerability of the supply chains and to lead a sustainable and inclusive economic growth, we affirmed that the collaboration that Japan and the United States is indispensable.
 
In addition, we concur to advance our cooperation and the areas such as decarbonization, a status (ph).
 
There was huge achievement also in the area of space. In the first half of the 1960s, when I was in the United States, it was the dawn of space development in the United States. 
 
We were so excited in the U.S. (INAUDIBLE) challenge in space that it implemented the arrangement of the sun (ph) for the occasion and the provision of the (INAUDIBLE) by Japan and the allocation of two astronauts flight opportunities during that service to Japan we're confirmed. Under the Artemis Program, I welcome the lunar landing by a Japanese astronaut as the first known U.S. astronaut. 
 
We also discussed the efforts toward a world without nuclear weapons. We affirmed that a realistic and practical endeavors of nuclear disarmament, including this issuance of the G-7 leaders' Hiroshima Vision last year.
 
And in the Balkans, the participation of the United States in the SMCT Friends (ph), which was launched by my initiative. 
 
Lastly, in order to further strengthen that people-to-people bond, which is the cornerstone of our unwavering Japan-U.S. relationship, we affirmed to further promote people-to-people exchanges.
 
As the outcome of our meeting today, we will issue a joint statement titled "The Global Partners for the Future." 
 
This is the expression of the determination of Japan and the United States to maintain and strengthen a free and open international order based on the rule of law that underpins the peace, stability and prosperity of the international community and states the guiding principles.
 
With our partnership, we will defend for the future of Japan and the United States in the Indo-Pacific and the world to make that future all the more prosperous.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Thank you. 
 
Now, we'll take a few questions. 
 
Jordan Fabian of Bloomberg?
 
JORDAN FABIAN, WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: BLOOMBERG: Thank you, Mr. President. 
 
Last month, you predicted the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates thanks to falling inflation. But today, data showed that inflation rose more than expected for the third straight month. 
 
So how concerned are you about the fight against inflation stalling? And do you stand by your prediction for a rate cut? 
 
BIDEN: Well, I do stand by my prediction of before the year is out, there will be a rate cut. This may delay as a month or so. I'm not sure of that. We don't know what the Fed is going to do for certain. 
 
But look, we have dramatically reduced inflation from 9 percent now close to 3 percent. We're in a situation where we're better situated than we were when we took office, where we -- inflation was skyrocketing.
 
And we have the plan to deal with it. Whereas, the opposition, my opposition talks about two things. They just want to cut taxes for the wealthy and raise taxes on other people. And so I think they're -- they have no plan. Our plan is one I think is so sustainable. 
 <br>[13:40:02]
 
FABIAN: Mr. Prime Minister, you've said that, in the Nippon Steel acquisition of U.S. Steel is a private matter. But I'm wondering, did you discuss the matter today with President Biden? And do you believe that politics are influencing President Biden's decision to oppose the deal? 
 
And I wouldn't mind, Mr. President, if you answer that one, too. 
 
KISHIDA: On the issue that you have raised, we understand that discussions are underway between the parties. We hope these discussions will unfold in directions that would be positive for both sides. 
 
Japan beliefs that appropriate procedures based on law is being implemented by the U.S. government. Japan is the largest investor to the United States. Japanese businesses employ close to one million workers in the United States. 
 
And investment from Japan to the U.S. can only increase upwards in the months and years to come. And we wish to cement this win-win relationship. Thank you. 
 
BIDEN: I stand by my commitment to American workers. I am a man of my word. I'm going to keep it. And with regard to that, I stand by our commitment to our alliance. This is -- exactly what we're doing is a strong alliance as well. 
 
KISHIDA: (INAUDIBLE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Prime minister's microphone, please 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER (through translation): My question is to both the Prime Minister Kishida and to President Biden.
 
At the summit, you confirmed your strong objections against unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion by China and agreed on reinforcing response capabilities.
 
Under current circumstances, as Japan and the United States bolster defense capabilities, China may become more preoccupied in military expansion and intensify its coercive behavior. 
 
That is, the risk of dilemma, in order to avoid divide and expand -- avoid the divide, how should the Japan and the U.S. respond? 
 
KISHIDA: Let me then take that question first. At this summit, we confirmed that the United States and Japan will resolutely defend and bolster a free and open international order based on the rule of law. And that Japan and the United States, as global partners, shall work together for that purpose. On challenges concerning China, including the point you raised on objecting to unilateral attempts to change status quo by force or coercion, we concurred that Japan and the United States, as global partners, shall work in close coordination. 
 
And also, as I said previously, we will continue our dialogue with China and we will cooperate with China in tackling common challenges. And that the president and I confirmed that the importance of such dialogue as well.
 
Based on the solid trust with our ally, the United States, we will continue to call on Chinas to fulfill its responsibilities as a major power. 
 
Japan's policy, which I have consistently embraced, is to comprehensively promote the mutual strategic relationship we have with China and establish a constructive and stable Japan-China relationship through efforts by both sides. 
 
That has been my consistent position that I have upheld. We will continue to seek close communication with China at all levels. 
 
That's it for me. 
 
BIDEN: You know, first of all, we keep improving our lines of communication with one another. That's the United States and China. 
 
We -- I've met with - I've recently spoken at length with President Xi, and we've agreed that we would, number one, have personal contact with one another whenever we want to discuss anything, so that there will be no -- nothing lipped -- nothing slips, say they say, between the cup and the lip. So we know exactly what the other team is thinking. Number one.
 <br>[13:45:05]
 
And so we had a long discussion last time, I guess almost two weeks ago now. And the best way to reduce your chances of a miscalculation and a misunderstanding. Just number one. 
 
Number two, in our alliance we have with Japan is a truly defensive in nature. it's a defensive alliance. And the things we discussed today improve our cooperation and are purely about defense and readiness. 
 
It's not aimed at any one nation or a threat to the region. And it doesn't have any to do with conflict. And so this is about restoring stability in the region. And I think we have a chance of doing that. 
 
OK. Third -- next question. Who do I call on next? Hang on a second. I've got my list here. Hang on. I apologize. 
 
Areala Array (ph) of AFP. 
 
AREALA ARRAY (ph), CORRESPONDENT, AFP: Thank you. My first question would go to both of you, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister.
 
Is there a path for Japan to become a full member of AUKUS? 
 
And I would have a second question for you, Mr. President? You're now saying that Benjamin Netanyahu is making a mistake in Gaza. What are you willing to do to make him change his strategy? And would you consider conditioning military aid to Israel? Thank you. 
 
KISHIDA: Thank you. Your question about AUKUS, I will respond. In my country, we want to contribute to the peace and stability of the region and, therefore, have consistently supported AUKUS.
 
Have said that the participants of AUKUS, U.S., U.K., Australia, with such countries, by bilateral relationship or in multilateral occasions, we have established that the various relationships.
 
But for Japan to have a direct cooperation with AUKUS, nothing has been decided at this moment. Going forward with U.S., U.K., or with Australia, with such countries in bilateral or multilateral frameworks, we will continue our cooperation.
 
So that will continue to be considered. At the moment, about the relationship between Japan and AUKUS, that's it. 
 
BIDEN: With regard to my discussions with Bibi Netanyahu, as well as our relationship with Israel, I have I'm very blunt and straightforward with the prime minister as we'll as his war cabinet, as well as the cabinet. 
 
And the fact of the matter is that Bibi and I had a long discussion. He agreed to do several things that related to, number one, getting more aid, both food and medicine, into Gaza and reducing significantly the attempts -- the civilian casualties in any action taken in the region.
 
And thus far -- and as tied to the hostages. There are a number of hostages that are being held by Hamas. And just yesterday, we we're meeting with the vice president and our national security adviser before that. 
 
And there are American hostages as well. And they know how committed we are, the whole team, to getting their loved ones home. We're not going to stop until we do.
 
The new proposal on the table that Bill Burns led the effort to -- for us. We're grateful for his work. There's now, Hamas, they need to move on the proposal that's been made. 
 
And as I said, we'll get these hostages home where they belong. But also bring back the six-weeks ceasefire that we need now. 
 
And the fact is that we're getting in somewhere in the last three days over 100 trucks. It's not enough. But it needs to be more. And there's one more opening that has to take place in the north. So we'll see what he does in terms of meeting the commitments he made me. 
 
This will be the last reporter.
 
Mr. Shimizu, please? 
 
SHIMIZU DAISHI, POLITICAL REPORTER, NHK (through translation): Thank you. Shimizu of NHK.
 
I ask the question to both of you.
 
Prime Minister Kishida mentioned, the reduction issue of North Korea, I believe, was discussed.
 
Prime Minister, you have expressed your wish to have a direct engagement with Kim Jong-Un. But they say that reduction is already result, which means that they are refusing.
 <br>[13:50:05]
 
During that meeting, what did you tell President Biden about the outlook of a summit? And what engagement did you ask President Biden?
 
President Biden, my question, what did you hear from Prime Minister Kishida? And what is your observation and feeling, you're precedent -- with a nuclear missile issue? What is your position? Do you support the summit between Japan and North Korea? 
 
Thank you.
 
KISHIDA: First of all, if I may start. Regarding my summit meeting with the President Biden about North Korea, including the missile and nuclear issues, we have discussed, and regarding the increasingly worrying situation, we have agreed to continue close coordination.
 
And on top of that, it will be concurred that the window of a discussion with North Korea is open. And we discussed that Japan-U.S., Japan, U.S. and ROK will continue to work closely together. 
 
I also asked for the continued understanding and cooperation for the immediate resolution of the adduction issue. And the President Biden, once again, gave myself a very strong assurance.
 
Regarding the recent announcement by North Korea, I will refrain from commenting on each and every announcement by North Korea. But as I have been mentioning repeatedly, based on the perspective that the establishment of a meaningful relation between Japan and North Korea is in the interest of both Japan and North Korea.
 
And that it would be hugely beneficial to the peace and stability of the region. 
 
My policy is to aim, before a summit meeting with North Korea, to resolve various issues and with advanced high-level consultation directly under my instruction. And that remains changed. That is my response. 
 
BIDEN: We did discuss this issue. We both agree that DPRK must, must also address a serious human rights and humanitarian concerns of the international community, including the immediate resolution of the reduction issue. But you know, the prime minister has just spoken to the potential of
 
 what his plans may mean. But welcome -- I welcome the opportunity. We welcome an opportunity for our allies to initiate dialogues with the Democratic Republic of Korea. 
 
As I've said many times, we're open to dialogue ourselves, at any time, without preconditions of the DPRK. I have faith in Japan. I have faith in the prime minister. And I think his seeking a dialog with them is a good thing. it's a positive thing.
 
Thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE)
 
BIDEN: Thank you. Thank you.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BIDEN: Why don't everybody holler at once? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: On the issue of abortion, so what do you say to the people of Arizona right now where we're witnessing a law going -- that dates back to the Civil War?
 
BIDEN: Elect me. I'm in a 20th century -- 21st century, not back then. We weren't even a state. I find --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BIDEN: Thank you all very much. Thank you. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This concludes the press conference.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BIDEN: The House, the war in Ukraine comes down to the House leader allowing a vote. There's overwhelming support for Ukraine among the majority of Democrats and Republicans. There should be a vote now.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: I will say there are a lot of topics that President Biden would like to talk about, that there weren't even enough questions allotted in what is called a two-and-two there. 
 
He took questions there about abortion and about Ukraine aid in addition to the critical topics that he had to discuss there in the process conference as well. 
 
But he was saying, oh, that question about abortion and Arizona, elect me, I'm in the 20th century, but then he corrected himself to say the 21st century? 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Yes. A lot of topics between President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida. The first question, when it was opened up to reporters, was about inflation directed at President Biden. Obviously, there's a new report showing that inflation remains stubbornly high. 
 
The president responding by touting things that his administration has done to bring it down from a high of 9 percent. It's still close to 4 percent, about 3.8 percent year over year. And that is going to be a consistent issue lingering into the next election.
 <br>[13:55:00]
 
On the focus of the partnership between the U.S. and Japan, a lot to tout in terms of defensive capabilities and advancements in that regard. 
 
And also on the economic side, notably though a lot of this has to do with China, right? And when President Biden was asked about it, he said that effectively the discussions between Japan and the United States are defensive.
 
He said something to the effect of this is not about a conflict, just bringing stability to the region. Very diplomatic language from President Biden. 
 
KEILAR: He said it's not about one country.
 
SANCHEZ: Right.
 
KEILAR: Paging China. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: He didn't say China, but that is exactly what he was talking about. But no doubt, this is a critical relationship ahead of this historic meeting between, of course, Japan and the Philippines and the U.S., as he's clearly looking to consolidate influence against China with its aggression in the South China Sea. 
 
We have Kayla Tausche, who was there, I believe in the Rose Garden. She's there at the White House tracking this news conference. 
 
A lot of other topics as well, talking about military aid to Israel, in addition to that abortion decision by the Arizona Supreme Court. And of course, this critical relationship. 
 
And the U.S. still deal, that proposal by Nippon Steel, the fourth largest steel producer in the world, the largest steel producer in Japan trying to purchase that iconic American parking company. 
 
Kayla, tell us the highlights here. 
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: We'll, Brianna, it was really a litany of A-1 topics, both domestically and overseas, that President Biden was able to touch on in this press conference, with the backdrop of an historic state -- state visit by a longtime ally of the United States. 
 
And as you saw, there was a deepening of military collaboration, of the co-development of weapons through a new joint defense counsel, a consultation to evaluate whether Japan should be a member of the AUKUS partnership with Australia, the U.K. and the U.S. to develop nuclear submarines to deploy in the South China Sea and across the Indo- Pacific.
 
Prime Minister Kishida was asked whether there is a clear path for Japan to join that alliance. And he said that that is what they're going to be discussing through this new consultation. 
 
Of course, you mentioned the fact that China is not present here, President Xi is not here at this visit. But he was the center of the discussion. He was sort of the raison d'etre for this summit even taking place. 
 
And while the leaders went to great lengths to say that this is about readiness, this is not about conflict, it's about peace and stability in the South China Sea and across the Taiwan Strait, that they condemned the idea of unilateral force being used to reclaim Taiwan by China. 
 
But they still took -- took the opportunity to mention their alliance and mention the efforts that they we're going to try to protect that peace and stability while ensuring that the lines of communication are open.
 
And stressing cooperation with China as the key to essentially defuse tensions and avoid misunderstanding or a miscommunication. 
 
Certainly, that is also going to be the theme tomorrow when the president of the Philippines joins the conversation. The three leaders are going to be discussing an infrastructure investment, we're told, where the U.S. and Japan will be funding a new rail and shipping corridor connecting to critical Filipino military bases. 
 
While the Philippines accuses China of harassment in some of its critical economic zones. So China will figure prominently in those continued discussions, even if they are saying that the goal is to defuse these tensions -- Brianna, Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Kayla Tausche, at the White House for us. 
 
Kayla, please standby. 
 
Let's get some perspective now with Kimberly Dozier. 
 
Kim, you -- you we're watching very closely. One of the things that strikes me about this two-and-two press conference is the mention of so many of the other players in the region.
 
Obviously, Japan is the linchpin of this effort in the United States to exert influence in the Pacific. But there was mention of Australia, of South Korea, the Philippines, obviously.
 
It sounds a lot like Biden is trying to reclaim the arena in the way that Donald Trump did not. Donald Trump blew up the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which sought to do the very same things, right -- KEILAR: Yes. 
 
SANCHEZ: -- that Biden is doing now. 
 
KIMBERLY DOZIER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: We'll, these parties that you're talking about have just done a joint patrol because the message to China is stop messing in our territory. 
 
Chinese jets have buzzed Japanese airspace. The Chinese Coast Guard has harassed the Philippine naval vessels and Coast Guard vessels with everything from water cannon to ramming their boats. 
 
So it's this network gathering together, saying that you've got to stop the harassment in the South China Sea, which the Chinese consider their own, and in the East China Sea. 
 <br>[14:00:00]
 
And also, how about, China, start raining in Pyongyang. You've allowed them to just fire and test missiles. 
 
So at the same time, what you heard from that first question that Kishida got from his media is.