Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Biden Takes Questions For First Time At the Podium Of Briefing Room; Iran's Supreme Leader: We'll Attack Israel Again If Necessary; Biden: Israel Isn't "Going To Make A Decision Immediately" On Possible Iran Retaliation; U.S. Strikes Houthi Targets In Yemen; Menendez Brothers' 1996 Conviction Under Review. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired October 04, 2024 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:31:47]
 
ALISYN CAMEROTA, CNN HOST: OK, we want to return to our breaking news. President Biden just surprised the press corps at the White House by coming out and taking questions at the podium in the White House briefing room. This, we've learned, is the first time he's done so in his presidency. 
 
So listen to the moment where the reports we're surprised.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Hi, I'm Joe Biden.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Welcome, Mr. President.
 
BIDEN: Welcome to 2024.
 
No, good afternoon. The past two days have --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: You heard some audible gasps there in the room. And then somebody says we've been waiting for you.
 
CAMEROTA: I know.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CAMEROTA: And after saying welcome to the pool, he spoke and he said welcome to the swimming pool because it's built on top of the wing. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes precisely. Yes, really a notable moment there. We haven't seen President Biden out in public as often, frequently, as we had seen before, obviously, since he dropped out of the presidential race, fewer campaign events, no campaign events. 
 
Notably, as he was leaving, he was asked if he had any regrets about dropping out of the race and the president made a funny. Let's watch.
 
CAMEROTA: OK, I'll tell you the joke. We don't have that. We don't have that. We don't have the sound right now, so I'll just give you the punchline. He said, "I'm back in."
 
But, I mean, don't you think that's telling? Because he wanted to come out and talk about the economy. He wanted to come out and take credit. He likes this kind of stuff. 
 
And I think the "I'm back in" does suggest that he's missed some of the campaign trail.
 
SANCHEZ: And perhaps engaging with the press as well. 
 
Let's discuss more with our panel, CNN chief media analyst, Brian Stelter, along with pollster and communications strategist, Frank Luntz. 
 
Thank you both for being with us. 
 
Brian, to you. 
 
Out of all the things that we heard from President Biden there, which stood out most to you?
 
BRIAN STELTER, CNN CHIEF MEDIA ANALYST: First of all, just to underscore what you're both saying, a White House aide says he did come out for two big reasons. It was because of the port strike being averted for now and because of those impressive job figures that we learned about this morning.
 
But I was most struck by a more sober comment that the president made during this brief press conference. He was asked about the upcoming election and whether he's confident the results will be free and fair. 
 
He said, "I'm confident it will be a free and fair election. I don't know if it will be peaceful." 
 
You know, I think he's touching on a concern many Americans feel about the coming weeks, about the prospect of violence and unrest, depending on what happens in this the election. 
 
We know that that's been weighing on the president for months. He told "The New Yorker's" Evan Osnos back in January that he was concerned about what might happen, for example, if Trump loses again and what kind of unrest can follow. So I thought it was striking that he brought that up.
 
And then all the good news. And he certainly has a lot to celebrate today. The markets are rallying today. Biden's in a good mood. But as he looks ahead four weeks from now, he expressed concern about whether the election will be peaceful. CAMEROTA: Yes, Frank, one of the other reasons that's notable is because that wasn't a scripted remark. So that was off the cuff. That was when the reporter started asking questions. 
 
So had his communications team been able to polish up that answer, I don't know if he would've said, "I don't know if it will be peaceful. Trump says things that are dangerous." 
 <br>[14:35:01]
 
I mean, he's clearly speaking his mind there. What did you think? 
 
FRANK LUNTZ, POLLSTER &amp; COMMUNICATIONS STRATEGIST: I think it should be encouraged. I mean, there's way too much scripted rhetoric in politics that's undermining the public's faith and trust in who they elect.
 
It's basically not the mind of the president, of Senators and the House members, but it's the language of spinmeisters, the language of consultants. That's not what we need right now. 
 
In these last 30 days, what matters most is authenticity and truth. We have to ask of these candidates and of the president, tell us what you really think. Tell us what you really know. No holds barred, because the next four years depends on it. 
 
And in the end, you have to be accurate. And so it's great to move this to the presidential race. 
 
Donald Trump talks way too much and Kamala Harris doesn't talk enough. Trump would be far better off being silent and not being so nasty and so rude. And Harris would be far better off and she would come tell us exactly what's going to happen.
 
Because the public has the right to know and she has a responsibility to tell them that, right. Both candidates are making a mistake and the American people are suffering -- suffering from it. 
 
But I love the fact that Biden came out and was candid with the reporters today because that gives the American people faith in their democracy again.
 
SANCHEZ: So, Frank, you think it's a mistake for Harris not to do more media appearances, for example, and to not engage more with reporters the way that we just saw President Biden?
 
LUNTZ: Exactly. And I want to pare it because Donald Trump doesn't have an unexpected thought. 
 
And in the end, he would be far more effective just asking the question, even with these numbers, are you better off today than you were four years ago? Do you feel safer today than you did four years ago. Very simple questions. And then get off the stage.
 
And Harris needs to do exactly the opposite, give people the chance to challenge her. What are your -- what are the ramifications or the consequences of
 
 your plans on inflation? And where are you going to make a difference in the border that you have failed to do over the last three-and-a- half years? 
 
One candidate is just rude and abusive and turning voters off. The other candidate is silent and that's turning voters off. 
 
The candidate that figures this out over the next 30 days is the candidate who wins the presidency.
 
CAMEROTA: Brian, I think what the Harris campaign would say is that she is doing lots of media locally. So she's going to battleground states. 
 
She's doing local media, maybe local stations and newspapers. But obviously, precious few national sit-down interviews. She obviously didn't do one on CNN. 
 
So do you think that that's hurting her, as Frank is saying?
 
STELTER: It would be really interesting to see her in a press conference. I agree with Frank that a press conference setting would show us a lot from Harris. 
 
Obviously, the campaign's not doing that intentionally because, as you said, they are focusing on swing state interviews. And they're actually doing, this weekend, their -- one of their biggest interviews yet, a national sit-down with "60 Minutes." 
 
That's going to air on Monday night in primetime, "60 Minutes" sometimes draws eight million, nine million, 10 million, 11 million viewers. So that's going to be a major moment for Harris.
 
Even more interestingly, Trump has backed out of that interview. Trump was going to participate. Now he's not. So maybe he's taking Franks advice and talking less.
 
Biden, meanwhile, Biden is the ultimate wing man for Kamala Harris in a moment like this. 
 
Yes, he may have stepped on her appearance this afternoon, but generally speaking, given that the economy is so important to voters and given the voters are more pessimistic than the data suggests, they should be, objectively, anytime Biden can emphasize good news about the economy, it's going to redound to Harris has benefit.
 
And it's really important when there -- there are data sets, when there are reports, when there are new facts out there, they can't just be handed out at 8:30 am and then not follow up on.
 
And Biden and other politicians have to repeat those points and emphasize the good news. Because as we know, Americans are feeling more sour about the economy than the data would suggest.
 
SANCHEZ: A really surprising moment this afternoon at the White House. Brian Stelter, Frank Luntz, we appreciate your joining us for it. Thanks so much.
 
STELTER: Thank you.
 
LUNTZ: Good to see you.
 <br>[14:39:19]
 
SANCHEZ: President Biden also talked about the conflict in the Middle East as well during his unexpected news conference. We're going to discuss that aspect of this in just moments. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CAMEROTA: More smokey scenes today in Lebanon as Israel continues its punishing assault on Iran-backed Hezbollah fighters. New data shows that Israel's daily strikes are more intense than the height of the U.S.s attacks on Afghanistan.
 
And Iran issuing new warnings today, just days after launching its own direct assault on Israel.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, in a rare speech, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, said that his nation will attack Israel again if necessary. 
 
Here's President Biden moments ago about tensions in the Middle East.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Could you clarify some of your comments yesterday with regard to strikes on Iranian oil facilities? What did you mean by them getting some of the reaction perceived in Washington? 
 <br>[14:44:57]
 
BIDEN: Look, the Israelis have not concluded how they -- what they're going to do in terms of a strike. That's under discussion. 
 
I think there are -- if I we're in their shoes, I'd be thinking about other alternatives than striking oil fields. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Thank you, Kareem. 
 
Thank you so much, Mr. President, for being here.
 
This week, Senator Chris Murphy said it's certainly a possibility that the Israeli government is not going to sign any diplomatic agreement prior to the election, which is what you have been calling for, for so long, potentially to try to influence the result. 
 
Do you agree? Do you have any worries that Netanyahu may be trying to influence the election and that's why he has not agreed to a diplomatic solution?
 
BIDEN: No administration has helped Israel more than I have. None, none. I think maybe he should remember that. 
 
And whether he's trying to influence the election. I don't know, but I'm not counting on that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: CNN international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson, is live for us in Tel Aviv. 
 
Nic, it's notable that President Biden and Prime Minister Netanyahu haven't spoken since August 21st. And, yet you have this back-and- forth with Iran and you have the incursion of IDF forces into Lebanon.
 
What do you make of those remarks from President Biden? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: It's a very high- stakes moment. I think there was a certain feeling that Israel would have responded sooner to Iran. 
 
Perhaps one of the reasons was that this is -- we've just had the high holidays here, Rosh Hashanah and that this would perhaps not have been the best time for Israel to make that kind of response, given that people were celebrating with their families. 
 
And if Iran had echoed back another round of strikes, then that would have had very -- potentially very serious and damaging consequences at that time for this country.
 
But it does appear, from what the president is saying, that Israel and the United States are in deep discussions as they we're in April last year when Iran struck back then.
 
And back then, the White House was able, it appeared, to temper Israel's response. And it appears to be what they're trying to do again.
 
Because an attack on Iran's oil refineries could drive up the price of oil. That would not be helpful for President Biden right now. It would not be helpful for Kamala Harris and running for the running in the election coming up. 
 
So all of this seems to sort of speak to a huge effort from the White House that President Biden alluded to. We're talking, you know, 12 hours a day, we're available all the time, to kind of tamp down Israel's response. 
 
Yet, the president there also saying that it's up to Israel to do what they will. And, you know, the potential for escalation, to your point there, is very, very real.
 
And I think, adding to that, what we heard from a deputy military commander in Iran today, saying if Israel does strike, then they're going to be looking at the power infrastructure, the oil refineries here.
 
Saying that there we're three power -- power generating stations in Israel and several refineries and Iran can hit them all in one go. 
 
So it's very clear the very public messaging here. Why Israel is still waiting to strike back, isn't clear, but it does speak to a very careful analysis. 
 
But we really, here, have no idea which way they'll take it, whether they will take it to prevent escalation or leave the door wide open for him.
 
CAMEROTA: Nic, when you hear President Biden say no administration has helped Israel more than I have, is that the perception in Israel? 
 
ROBERTSON: Certainly it is among a percentage of the population here. But the prime minister, absolutely not. He's found the United States, or the way that he's publicly discussed the situation, the United States trying to hold Israel back. 
 
He publicly blamed the United States for not providing weaponry that he needed in the fight in Gaza. 
 
We know that Prime Minister Netanyahu would far prefer, if president -- if former President Trump won the election because he'd have had somebody in the White House who was much more hawkish about Iran. And that fits Netanyahu's view.
 
So -- so, to that point, the question the president was asked about is, is Netanyahu trying to undermine you? Biden, of course, saying no, no, no. There is a very, very real tension there.
 
SANCHEZ: Nic, literally, as you were speaking, we got an update that the U.S. military has carried out strikes on 15 Houthi targets in Yemen, including on the groups military capabilities. 
 
This is an effort the U.S. military says to protect freedom of navigation in the Red Sea. And it follows weeks of Houthi attacks on Israel. 
 
So Israel is not only defending against Houthi attacks, fighting Hamas in Gaza, but also now with this incursion into Lebanon, taking Hezbollah head on.
 <br>[14:54:59]
 
I'm wondering what you think their options are, given that they're being defensive on so many fronts, to going after Iran, especially as we just heard President Biden there saying that oil facilities should not be a focus.
 
ROBERTSON: As far as Israel and this government is concerned, and for most of the population, Iran is behind all of these proxies. It's behind Hezbollah, is behind Hamas, is behind the Houthis. 
 
It's behind some of the Iranian-Shia-backed militia today, who sent a drone into the Golan Heights, killing two soldiers and wounding more than two dozen others. So Iran is behind all of it. So the fact -- the notion that Israel would not seek to have a
 
 military strike that would act as a deterrence against Iran, a deterrent to them, a deterrence to others in the region, is inconceivable. 
 
Absolutely it's going to have happened. To have the United States in the region right now taking on the Houthis, trying to take down some of their military capabilities is helpful for Israel. 
 
The other thing, of course, as this time window does, while Israel calculates -- as President Biden was discussing here, calculates its target package, actually allows -- and this is not being talked about publicly and we don't know that it's happening.
 
But gives the United States more time to organize more assets into the region should things really escalate. Because it's only just a couple of days ago that Iran did have that direct attack on Israel and the United States is perhaps not as best postured as it would want to be to support Israel. 
 
And of course, that gets to what President Biden was saying. There's no administration that's done more than his to support Israel. And of course, that is in effect in the region at the moment. Witness what we saw in Yemen today.
 
SANCHEZ: Nic Robertson, appreciate the perspective, live for us from Tel Aviv. Thanks so much.
 
Still ahead, much more on the surprise news conference with President Biden, one that stunned even reporters in the briefing room. 
 
Also ahead, new evidence in the Menendez brothers' murder case. They've served more than three decades in prison for murdering their parents. But something has come to light that could potentially set them free.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:56:21]
 
SANCHEZ: Happening now in one of the most notorious double murders in U.S. history, new evidence is being examined in the case of Erik and Lyle Menendez, the brothers convicted of shooting and killing their parents in their Beverly Hills mansion more than 35 years ago. 
 
CNN's Veronica Miracle joins us now, live from Los Angeles. 
 
Veronica, what are these details that are emerging?
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Boris, this case continues to shock people decades later. Jose and Kitty Menendez, as you mentioned, they were murdered in their Beverly Hills home.
 
And their children, Erik and Lyle, admitted to killing their parents. But they said they did so in self-defense. They were scared their parents were going to kill them for exposing Jose's years-long sexual abuse of Erik. 
 
Now, at the time, prosecutors said there was no evidence of incest or sexual abuse, and that the brothers were actually after their parent's multimillion-dollar estate.
 
But now Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascon says there's two new key pieces of evidence they want to review for potential re-sentenced of the brothers.
 
And the first key piece of evidence is a letter written by one of the brothers to a cousin that details the sexual abuse and was reportedly written before the murders took place. 
 
And another is a declaration from another potential victim of Jose Menendez. 
 
Here's what the defense team and the D.A. has to say about this potential re-sentenced.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK GERAGOS, DEFENSE ATTORNEY FOR MENENDEZ BROTHERS: They have now served 35 years. In that 35 years that they have served in prison, they've been model prisoners. 
 
I think we're at a point now where any reasonable person taking a look at this case believes they should be out. 
 
GEORGE GASCON, LOS ANGELES COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: We have not decided on an outcome. We are reviewing the information. But I think it's also important that we recognize that both men and women can be the victims of sexual assault.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MIRACLE: So why is all of this coming to light now? Why is it happening? We'll Gascon, District Attorney George Gascon, says for a number of reasons.
 
First, the defense team has been working to find new evidence over the years.
 
And also, there's renewed interest in this case because of documentaries and docudramas on streaming services. So it's back in the cultural spotlight.
 
Gascon's team has also been very intentional about resentencing cases. He says his office has actually re-sentenced about 300 under his leadership. And he is up for re-election. 
 
A hearing in this case is going to be scheduled for the end of November. So, Boris, we will just have to see what happens.
 
Back to you. 
 
SANCHEZ: Veronica Miracle, thank you so much for the update. Still ahead this afternoon on CNN NEWS CENTRAL, here's something you
 
 do not see every day. President Biden taking questions at the podium in the White House briefing room, the first time in his presidency. What President Biden said and the implications, when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)