Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Freed Americans Back on U.S. Soil After Historic Prisoner Swap; Simone Biles Probes Again Why She's the GOAT of Gymnastics; Judge Could Jumpstart Trump Election Interference Case. Aired 10-10:30a ET

Aired August 02, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
PAULA REID, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning. You are live in the CNN Newsroom. I'm Paula Reid in Washington. Jim Acosta is off.
 
And we start this morning with three words everyone was waiting to hear, they're finally home. Former U.S. Marine Paul Whelan, Wall Street Journal Reporter Evan Gershkovich, and Russian-American Journalist Alsu Kurmasheva are now back on U.S. soil, arriving to a hero's welcome overnight. Take a look.
 
Their long nightmare finally over as they hugged their families for the first time since being freed. President Biden and Vice President Harris also on hand to welcome them home. The historic prisoner swap was the largest since the Cold War, involving 24 detainees and 7 countries. Biden posted this photo showing the trio on their way home.
 
Earlier this morning, they touched down in Texas for medical evaluations with their families in tow. But even with the gravity of the last 24 hours still sinking in, Gershkovich was quick to point out that the nightmare is far from over for other detainees.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EVAN GERSHKOVICH, WALL STREET JOURNAL REPORTER FREED AFTER 16 MONTHS IN RUSSIAN PRISON:  It was great to get on that bus today and see a lot of, you know, not just Americans and Germans, but Russian political prisoners.
 
But I just spent a month in prison in Yekaterinburg where there's a hole. You know, basically everybody I sat with is a political prisoner and nobody knows them publicly. They have, you know, various political beliefs. So, they're not all connected with Navalny supporters, which I think, you know, everybody knows about them (INAUDIBLE).
 
Today was a really touching moment to see all of them, but it would be -- you know, I think to see if we could potentially do something about them as well, I'd like to talk, you know, talk to people about that in the next weeks and months.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  Paul Whelan highlighted the significance of this historic moment while speaking to reporters this morning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAUL WHELAN, U.S. MARINE VETERAN FREED IN PRISONER SWAP WITH RUSSIA: This is us down here. Those last three, that's us.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  Our Rosa Flores was there when the plane carrying the freed prisoners touched down in San Antonio. Rosa, what comes next?
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, you know, Paula, it's a tough road ahead for these freed Americans because, as you showed there in those videos, we see the hugs, we see the beautiful emotion, but what we don't see are the scars and the mental trauma that they endured in isolation in detention. And that's why they're here in San Antonio, in the facility that you see behind me. This is Brooke Army Medical Center. They will undergo a medical evaluation, and they will also be part of a reintegration program.
 
It's unclear exactly how long they'll stay here, but, of course, you would put U.S. officials say that they'll stay here as long as needed.
 
REID:  And, Rosa, you actually spoke with Paul Whelan after he landed in Texas. What did he tell you?
 
FLORES:  You know, I asked him about this moment, if he could put it into words for us. And he shared a range of details, including how this nightmare started.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHELAN:  I went on a two-week vacation, you know, the FSB grabbed me, said I was a spy. I'm apparently a general in the army, a secret agent for DIA. This is the nonsense narrative they came up with. And they just -- they wouldn't let it go. So, you know, this is how Putin runs his government. This is how Putin runs his country.
 
Yes, I'm glad I'm home. Yes, I'm never going back there again.
 
It didn't feel real until we were flying over England. I'm a British citizen, Irish citizen, Canadian and American. So, as we came over England and I looked down you know, that's when it became real. We flew over Ireland, then Canada and into America. And then I knew I was home.
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
So, getting out the plane, seeing the president, the vice president, that was nice. It was a good homecoming. So, I'm looking forward to seeing my family down here and just recuperating from five years, seven months and five days of just absolute nonsense by the Russian government.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) FLORES:  And, Paula, I'd also want to share this other moment. After that interview, I was standing on the sidelines and Paul Whelan came up to me and asked me who I worked for. And I shared that I worked for CNN and he immediately told me to tell my colleague, Jennifer Hansler, thank you. And, of course, Jen covers the State Department for CNN, and he said that he would just call her and that her reporting has just made such a huge difference.
 
And, of course, huge kudos to Jen for all of those amazing reports that she did while he was in detention. And, of course, Paula, this is just a reminder of how important and impactful journalism is.
 
REID:  Rosa Flores, thank you.
 
And this was the scene inside the newsroom at The Wall Street Journal where Evan Gershkovich, of course, works. This was as they got the news of his freedom.
 
You're hearing their cheers and jubilation from his fellow journalists who worked so hard telling his story. Now, they can finally celebrate.
 
And with me now, Wall Street Journal Assistant Editor Paul Beckett. Paul, congratulations, Evan is now home. What was it like in that newsroom when you heard that he was free?
 
PAUL BECKETT, ASSISTANT EDITOR, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL:  Just an extraordinary moment. We had been on tenterhooks for hours up to that point, and we wanted to make sure that his feet were on the ground in Ankara, free from Russian officials, before we declared him free and publish our story, at which point the newsroom erupted because. It's been 16 long months in the Wall Street Journal newsroom and Evan's colleagues did an extraordinary job, keep his name in the spotlight. So, it was relief, it was joy, it was gratitude and excitement.
 
And, you know, we are also so grateful to everybody, CNN included, who has been with us on that whole journey. And we're a big news outlet, but we're not that big. And what made the difference here was the incredible support we got from other news organizations, governments, well wishers everywhere. It mattered, and it worked.
 
REID:  And your colleagues, of course, they did. They worked tirelessly to keep this story in the public eye. I want to show our viewers today's front page. And it's going to feel good to publish this. It's not quite up yet. There you go. Evan Gershkovich is free. How does that feel?
 
BECKETT:  Amazing, amazing, and amazing to think of the journey that Evan has been on, his family has been on. And we're grateful to the Biden administration for getting this done. You know, it's a complex, controversial deals and they pulled it off and credit to them. We're very grateful.
 
REID:  Have you talked to Evan yet? Have you had the chance?
 
BECKETT:  I have not. I was in touch with his family while they were waiting at Andrews Air Force Base. They were in a holding building. So, they weren't aware I was texting with his sister and saying, oh, the vice president's motorcade is coming. Oh, the president's motorcade is coming. Oh, we can see the plane, extraordinary moment. They were just happy giggling after, you know, 16 months of kind of having a knot in their gut. Yes, that was the moment that they got their son and brother home and so many other families were reunited yesterday.
 
And funnily enough, when Evan went over to the cameras to say what you -- it showed that it was the first time that I had heard his voice.
 
REID:  What's the first thing you want to say to him when you eventually do get the chance to talk to him?
 
BECKETT:  It's nice to meet you.
 
REID:  Now, we heard Evan already advocating for other prisoners before he was even off the tarmac. Does that surprise you at all?
 
BECKETT:  Not at all. You know, he was reporting on political prisoners. Last email that he and I shared before he was taken was about political prisoners and what the U.S was doing about them. So, it's a topic he cared a lot about. And he's ever the journalist. You know, he had to sign a sort of plea for clemency that went to Putin. And it was a blank space on it where the folks asking could say what they wanted and Evan asked him for an interview.
 
Yesterday when he was on the tarmac, he also said that he had tried to get an interview with the assassin, the Russian assassin, who was going back to Russia. But, you know, the planes didn't connect in Turkey, so he couldn't do it. So, he's clearly, you know, extraordinary young man, a great reporter, and we look forward to having him back in the newsroom when he is ready.
 <br>[10:10:04]
 
REID:  I love that he is the consummate working journalist, always pushing to get the big interview, not only with Vladimir Putin, but that's the first time I'd heard he was also trying to get the interview with that assassin.
 
What do you think is next for The Wall Street Journal and its efforts to, as Evan has talked about, maybe help other people who are still detained abroad?
 
BECKETT:  Well, the amazing thing about yesterday was, you know, all these people for the first time in so long, Paul Whelan's case, five years, Evan's case, 16 months, Alsu's case, over a year, they get to make decisions for the first time. That's the point of the San Antonio facility, is to help them make decisions again after being deprived of that for so long.
 
So, we're just going to wait to see what Evan wants to do, let him reconnect with his family. We'll be there with him the whole time. But, you know, he gets to make decisions and we look forward to seeing what he decides.
 
REID:  Again, congratulations on Evan's release. Paul Beckett, thank you for joining us.
 
BECKETT:  Thank you so much and thanks to CNN for all the support.
 
REID:  President Biden gathered the families in the Oval Office to wait as the freed prisoners made their way home. It was a moment the families had dreamt about for months, and in some cases, even years.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BIDEN:  We're in a bus and we're heading to the airport. As they get on the plane, we're going to call. You're going to hear them all.
 
Hey everybody, can you hear me? It's Joe Biden.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Hi, Mr. President.
 
BIDEN:  I'll Tell you what, I'm not as good as your families are feeling. They're all standing around the Oval Office desk here. And we just wanted to say how overwhelmed we are. You've been wrongfully detained for a long time, and we're glad you're home.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I miss you so much.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I'm so happy. We'll see each other very soon.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We're anywhere in the Oval Office.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Guys, I love you. See you soon. Bye, see you soon.
 
WHELAN:  Paul Whelan here.
 
BIDEN:  I got somebody who's lived in the Oval Office. She's back. She knows the office better than I do. Go ahead. Say, hello sis.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Paul, it's incredible, absolutely incredible, this moment. And I just want you to know the whole family is standing by.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE).
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We're in the Oval Office.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No word is strong enough for this. I was sure I'm going to die in prison, because I don't believe what's happening. I still think it's a -- I still think I'm sleeping in my prison cell in Omsk instead of hearing your voice.
 
But I just want you to know that you've done a wonderful thing by saving so many people. I think there are 16 of us on the plane. Again, I still can't believe it's happening. So, I just wanted to say that I don't think there are many things more important than saving human lives. BIDEN:  We're going to see you at Andrews. Don't pretend you don't know us, okay?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Okay.
 
BIDEN:  Welcome. Welcome.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you, Mr. President.
 
BIDEN:  I can hardly wait to see you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, thanks for bringing us home.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Thank you.
 
BIDEN:  I'll tell you what.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  See you soon.
 
BIDEN:  There's no greater job I have than protecting Americans and bringing Americans, who are wrongfully held, home. I really mean it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
REID:  And hours later, their families were finally able to hug their freed loved ones.
 
And still to come this morning, Trump's federal election interference trial could get a jump start now that it's back in the hands of a judge. We're joined by a lawyer for the former president.
 
And next, two of the greatest Olympians of all time, Simone Biles and Katie Ledecky, are carving out their names as legends in sports history. We're live in Paris.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
REID:  Take a look at the latest Olympic medal count. Team USA is leading the pack with the most overall medals, 40 in total. But when it comes to the most gold medals, China has that title for now with 12.
 
Simone Biles is proving once again why she's the GOAT of American gymnastics, and she has the necklace to match. She's placed first in the individual all-around competition. Biles now holds six gold medals, and her fans couldn't be more proud.
 
And these are the cheers of a young gymnast at Biles' home gym in Texas rooting for her. The New York Giants football team was also watching her compete. Just look at them, glued to the screen, just like the rest of us. And Aly Raisman also extended a big congrats to her former Team USA, saying, quote, I'm in awe of you, Simone Biles and Suni Lee.
 
Here's Biles on her win.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIMONE BILES, SIX-TIME OLYMPIC GOLD MEDALIST:  All in all, I'm super proud of my performance tonight and the fight that I've had for the last three years, mentally and physically.
 
Three years ago, I never thought I'd step foot on a gymnastics floor again just because of everything that had happened. I got back in the gym and worked really hard mentally and physically. Even this morning at 7:00 A.M., I saw my therapist, so just making sure I'm mentally well.
 <br>[10:20:03]
 
I think you see that out on the competition floor.
 
My goat necklace is just kind of an ode because the people love it and then some people hate it. So, it's like the best of both worlds. And I was like, okay, if it goes well, we'll wear the goat necklace. I know people will go crazy over it, but at the end of the day, it is crazy that I am in the conversation of greatest of all athletes because I just still think I'm Simone Biles from Spring, Texas, that loves to flip. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID:  CNN's Coy Wire is live in Paris. Coy, I know we're all cheering back here in the States. I've been cheering in my living room. But I want to know what has the reaction been like to her historic performance there in Paris?
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Oh, it was like that scene you show to those kids back in Texas, but times a gazillion, the packed arena, and there's young fans there, not just girls, there's young boys too. And it's not just them. It's Lady Gaga, Serena Williams, Steph Curry, Tom Cruise, droves of celebs rushing in to get a glimpse.
 
And she's so incredible that even her opponents are cheering her on while they're still competing. There's this incredible sportsmanship happening. There's a podium shot of Biles, Suni Lee and Rebecca Andrade of Brazil. And that photo is a gold medalist who had mental health struggles, but bounce back, a silver medalist who's had three ACL tears and a bronze medalist who's in remission from kidney disease is not just Biles. All these women are inspiring and becoming the must-see show of these games.
 
Now let's go to the pool. Australia continue their dominance in the pool by winning the 200-meter freestyle relay. But with the USA's silver medal, Katie Ledecky is now the most decorated female American Olympian swimmer of all time, 13 of them in all. That would be a heavy duffel bag. She's already won three medals here in Paris with a chance at more to come.
 
And Katie is just unreal to watch when she won gold in the 1,500-meter earlier this week, there wasn't another swimmer even on the screen when she finished. She is just on a completely different level than the fastest swimmers in the world.
 
REID:  Coy Wire in Paris, thank you.
 
WIRE:  All right.
 
REID:  And coming up, the IOC coming to the defense of a boxer at the center of an avalanche of misinformation.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
REID:  And new this morning, the federal election interference case against former President Donald Trump could come roaring back to life or not. Just a month -- this comes just a month after the Supreme Court gave Trump sweeping immunity for official acts as president. The judge overseeing the historic case is expected to regain control of that case as soon as today. And sources tell CNN they believe she's going to move fast.
 
So, let's discuss this now with one of Trump's attorneys, Will Scharf. He's also the Trump-endorsed Republican running to be Missouri's next attorney general.
 
All right, Will, this case goes back to Chutkan as soon as today. What do you think will happen after she gets the case?
 
WILL SCHARF, ATTORNEY FOR DONALD TRUMP:  So, there are two big issues that we're planning on addressing immediately. First of all, obviously, are the ramifications of the Supreme Court's decision on presidential immunity. This entire case is replete with immune evidence that the Supreme Court indicated cannot be used. That evidence was presented to the grand jury. We believe that infects that case, and that's fatal to this case. We're going to be moving to dismiss on that ground.
 
Second, in the Fisher case, the Supreme Court set rules around the use of this federal statute, 1512(c)(2), obstruction of a government function. That's a January 6th case, but two of the charges in this case fall under that same federal statute. We believe that Fisher requires a dismissal of both of those two charges.
 
So, in all, I think what we're looking at here is an outright dismissal of this entire case, or, at the very least, the severe delimitation of what it will end up being.
 
REID:  Well, that is, of course, the most optimistic outcome for your side. It is expected that Chutkan might have a mini trial to try to understand which evidence can survive this Supreme Court case. Would you be prepared to have a mini trial to suss out what evidence applies after the Supreme Court's ruling?
 
SCHARF:  You know, Judge Chutkan may try to do that. Part of the problem, though, is the use of immune evidence during grand jury proceedings that led to the indictment in this case. The Supreme Court was very clear that immune evidence can't be used even in cases involving non-immune conduct. So, in all, we believe that this case has been struck a fatal blow by the Supreme Court and that there's simply no way to disentangle immune from non-immune based on how the case has proceeded thus far.
 
That's a less reported aspect of the Supreme Court's opinion than its overall ruling on what acts are immune but evidentiary exclusion, we believe, is going to be one of the key issues litigated in the coming weeks.
 
REID:  We have a new story. Our colleague, Hannah Rabinowitz, wrote about Judge Tanya Chutkan talking to people who have practiced in front of her. The story notes that she's already decided in the Trump case 15 motions, mostly in favor of the special counsel, but at least one former Trump attorney suggested she's moved this case unusually fast.
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
Do you believe that Judge Tanya Chutkan has been fair to your client throughout this case?