Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: West Bank Shooting Kills One, Wounds Others; U.S. Defends Israel's Security At International Court Of Justice; Kremlin Calls Biden's Comments "Rude," "A Huge Disgrace"; U.S. Border Crisis; G20 Foreign Ministers Summit; Dani Alves Sentenced To 4.5 Years For Sexual Assault; Tanzanian Reserve Protects A Vibrant, Precious Environment; "Dune:  Part Two." Aired 10-11a ET

Aired February 22, 2024 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  Live from CNN Abu Dhabi, this is CONNECT THE WORLD with Becky Anderson. 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST (voice-over): Well, this hour, a shooting in the West Bank has left one dead and several wounded. Those tensions in the area 
 
 reach fever pitch.
 
First, your headlines this hour.
 
The International Court of Justice is hearing public arguments on the legal consequences of Israel's occupation of Palestinian Territories. 
 
China, Ireland, Jordan and Iran all presenting their views today. While we heard from the United States and the UAE yesterday. 
 
The White House is considering executive action to restrict migrants' ability to seek asylum at the U.S.-Mexico border. Critics say the policy is 
 
 reminiscent of Trump era politics.
 
And former footballer Dani Alves has been found guilty of sexually assaulting a woman in a Spanish night club. The Barcelona and Brazilian 
 
 player faces 4.5 years in prison. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, we begin with developments in the West Bank. This hour, Israeli authorities say a man in his 20s has been killed in an attack near 
 
 Jerusalem. They say three armed men opened fire on people who were stuck in a traffic jam near an Israeli settlement. 
 
Both Hamas and Islamic Jihad have praised the shooting. Neither, though, has claimed responsibility. The region massively on edge as raids by 
 
 Israeli forces have increased over the past few weeks. 
 
Meantime, as the war in Gaza rages on, the head of the CIA is expected to fly to Paris on Friday, with sources saying that he will take part in talks 
 
 to secure the release of hostages held in Gaza. 
 
The U.S., in partnership with Egypt and Qatar, is working to reach a deal before the Muslim holy month of Ramadan begins next month. Israeli war 
 
 cabinet minister Benny Gantz says there is potential for a deal to move forward. 
 
But added that Israel will push ahead with a ground operation in Rafah in southern Gaza if there is no breakthrough on hostages. Jeremy Diamond is in 
 
 Tel Aviv with the latest while Katie Bo Lillis has reaction from Washington. 
 
I want to start with you, Jeremy. I actually want to start with you on the West Bank incident, the deadly incident that we've been reporting on. 
 
What are the details as we understand them? 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, according to Israeli police, three Palestinian gunmen opened fire on Israeli civilians in 
 
 vehicles in the West Bank, right between the Israeli settlements of Ma'ale Adumim and Jerusalem at the Za'im checkpoint. 
 
We understand that those gunmen opened fire on vehicles using automatic weapons. Police said that two of the men were quickly shot. A third gunman 
 
 tried to escape and was also killed subsequently. 
 
One Israeli civilian was killed, according to the police; five others were shot. There was one woman in her 20s, who we understand is in critical 
 
 condition. 
 
Now none of the major terrorist organizations have claimed responsibility for this attack. Hamas and Islamic Jihad both praised the shooting but did 
 
 not take responsibility, Hamas calling it "a heroic operation," while the Islamic Jihad said that this was "a legitimate right to resist" operation 
 
 that was carried out here. 
 
We know that there have been several other attacks on Israeli civilians over the last month. Last week, there was a Palestinian gunman who shot and 
 
 killed two civilians in southern Israel. And last month a woman was killed and 17 others were wounded in a car ramming attack. 
 
What was especially notable about today was the presence of three gunmen, carrying out this attack at the same time. Typically, we do see these 
 
 incidents are more often lone wolf attacks rather than carried out by multiple people at the same time. 
 
Although, of course, we have seen that in the past as well. But certainly a sign that, despite the heavy Israeli military operations in the West Bank 
 
 over the last few months, there are still pockets of activity trying to carry out attacks against Israeli civilians in the area. 
 
And certainly, if we did see an expanded offensive into Rafah, in particular during the month of Ramadan, I think that that would certainly 
 
 pose a greater concern about the possibility of more attacks like this during that holy month.
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
ANDERSON:  That's right. And we have seen a significant uptick of deadly incidents on the West Bank before the conflict that most recently started 
 
 posting massacres of October the 7th and during this past, what, 130 days. 
 
And there was a real fear about what could happen. 
 
Meantime, Katie Bo, let me bring you in. The conflict in Gaza continues. We do know that there may be -- just may be some progress now on a potential 
 
 for a temporary truce and the release of hostages held in Gaza, mainly by Hamas but also by other militant groups. 
 
What do we understand to be the details as we speak? 
 
Certainly we know the progress is sufficient, it seems, for the CIA director to be flying to talk to mediators in Paris this weekend. 
 
KATIE BO LILLIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Becky, negotiators are certainly working against a ticking clock here, with officials telling CNN that the 
 
 next few weeks of discussions are pivotal, in large part because they are working against this March 10th, essentially this March 10th deadline. 
 
The Israeli government has said that they will commence a ground operation into Rafah if a deal is not reached by the beginning of Ramadan on March 
 
 10th to release additional hostages held by Hamas and others. 
 
Of course, there are 1.5 million displaced Gazans who have fled to Rafah since the beginning of hostilities in October. And one diplomat familiar 
 
 with the negotiations told my colleagues, Alex Marquardt and MJ Lee, that, if that ground operation does go for forward, quote, "we can forget about a 
 
 deal happening." 
 
So the stakes really could not be higher here, which I think is part of the reason why you've seen President Biden dispatch his CIA director, Bill 
 
 Burns, yet again to be the point person for these negotiations. 
 
He really has been on a rotator flight back and forth in between Washington and Europe and the Middle East, too, to meet with his Egyptian, Qatari and 
 
 Israeli counterparts, the Qataris being the key mediator with Hamas. 
 
We also have seen a real flurry of other senior national security officials from the Biden administration traveling to the region to work on this 
 
 issue. White House Middle East coordinator Brett McGurk was in Cairo yesterday and is in Israel today, meeting with prime minister Benjamin 
 
 Netanyahu, also working on this issue. 
 
Now the United States has emphasized to Israel that, if you move forward with this ground operation, you need to guarantee civilian safety in Rafah; 
 
 an almost impossible thing to guarantee in practical terms in the real world. 
 
So there really is no plan B here. We do understand that some progress has been made in negotiations. There is sort of a series of proposals that 
 
 negotiators have been working on. But all sort of coalescing around this idea of a series of phased pauses in exchange for releases. 
 
But still lots of sticking points here, in particularly the Israeli willingness to accept some of Hamas' demands. And so we will see what comes 
 
 out of this meeting on Friday -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes. Good to have you. Thank you very much indeed. 
 
The International Court of Justice is hearing public arguments this week on the legal consequences of Israel's occupation of Palestinian Territories, 
 
 particularly relevant, given our top story this hour, that violence we saw on the highway outside of Jerusalem in the West Bank. 
 
China, Ireland, Jordan, Iran all presenting their views on Israel's practices today, Jordan's foreign minister calling out Israel's disregard 
 
 for international law. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AYMAN SAFADI, JORDANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER:  No country must be allowed to be above the law. Israel is acting and has been allowed to act in complete 
 
 disregard of international law. That cannot continue. 
 
The occupation is unlawful. It is inhumane. It must end. Yet Israel has been systematically consolidating the occupation. It is blatantly denying 
 
 Palestinians right to self-determination. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  These are statements, remember, being given in the world's highest court. On Wednesday, the United Arab Emirates told that court that 
 
 Israel's occupation is illegal and cannot remain without consequence. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LANA NUSSEIBEH, UAE AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.:  Whether the illegality of Israel's occupation is determined under general international law or under 
 
 the charter, the conclusion is the same:  it is illegal. Israel's Illegal acts cannot remain without consequence. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  The United States defended Israel, saying its security needs to be taken into account.
 <br>[10:10:02]
 
ANDERSON:  Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RICHARD VISEK, LEGAL ADVISER, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT:  Under the established framework, any movement toward Israel's withdrawal from the West Bank and 
 
 Gaza requires consideration of Israel's very real security needs.
 
Regrettably, those needs have been ignored by many of the participants in asserting how the court should consider the questions before it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, more than 50 countries are making their case at the world court this week. An advisory ruling is expected by the end of the year and 
 
 would not be legally binding. 
 
Well, for more news out of the Middle East, subscribe to CNN's "Meanwhile in the Middle East" newsletter. Just head to cnn.com or use the CNN app on 
 
 your smartphone. That newsletter is delivered three times a week. You can scan the QR code at the bottom of your screen there. 
 
It is a jolly good read, full of insight and analysis on the region as we live it and breathe it today. 
 
Well, as Russia fights to keep up momentum in Eastern Ukraine, Kyiv's forces are claiming a win, saying they hit a training ground for Russian 
 
 troops beside the Dnipro River. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  In this video, which Ukraine says shows that attack, about two dozen people can be seen fleeing after what is an 
 
 explosion. For context, CNN was able to geolocate the footage and it does appear to be in the region of Kherson, about 20 kilometers from the 
 
 disputed village of Krynky. 
 
Ukraine says its forces are holding their positions there, despite Russia claiming that it has captured the village. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, the boyfriend of a dual U.S.-Russian citizen charged with treason in Russia has spoken to CNN about what his girlfriend means to him. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS VAN HEERDEN, KSENIA KARELINA'S BOYFRIEND:  She's the light of the room. She is a very positive, very friendly, very happy, very funny girl 
 
 that's got so much life in her. She's so alive, full of joy. And I'll tell you what, anybody that gets to speak to her falls in love with her because 
 
 that's who she is.
 
She's just a light. She's sees -- she's so kind. She sees the good in everyone, believe me. She's unbelievable. She's just ...
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, according to Van Heerden, Ksenia Karelina was in Russia, visiting her elderly grandparents, when she was arrested on treason 
 
 charges. Her U.S. employer told CNN that Karelina is accused of donating just $51 to a Ukrainian charity. 
 
If she is found guilty, she could serve up to 20 years in jail. I want to bring in CNN's chief global affairs correspondent, Matthew Chance, who is 
 
 in Moscow. 
 
What more do we know about this case?
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, I mean, not a great deal except what the Russian authorities, the FSB, have made 
 
 public.
 
Which is that they believe that Ksenia Karelina had been raising money for organizations inside Ukraine and attending rallies in favor of what they 
 
 call the Kyiv regime, the authorities in Ukraine. 
 
So pro Ukrainian rallies. Now you have to remember that, in an environment in Russia where, if you're not vocally pro war or the special military 
 
 operation, as they call it here, you're viewed with some suspicion. 
 
And if you do anything to sort of support the war, support the Ukrainians in the war in Ukraine, then you can open yourself up to charges of treason, 
 
 which is exactly the situation it seems that has Ksenia Karelina has found herself in. 
 
I mean, it's also more worrying because as a U.S. joint citizen, Russian joint citizen, U.S.  diplomats aren't able to get the kind of access to her 
 
 that they might normally be able to get to it, to a U.S. citizen because Russia regards her as Russian. Russia regards her as a Russian citizen, 
 
 doesn't acknowledge her U.S. passport. 
 
That's complicating the situation as well from a U.S. point of view. And she becomes just the latest U.S. citizen who is behind bars in Russia. 
 
And there's a lot of speculation behind the scenes that, in a future negotiation, these people, including Evan Gershkovich and "The Wall Street 
 
 Journal" and Paul Whelan, the former Marine and others, could form the kind of bargaining chips that Russia will use as leverage in negotiations with 
 
 the United States. 
 
But for the moment, look. She has been -- this woman from L.A.  has been put in custody until April. If she's found guilty, she faces a 20 year 
 
 prison sentence. So these are very serious charges, indeed. 
 
ANDERSON:  Matthew Chance on the story and with some context for you. Thank you. 
 
Well, the U.S. president's recent criticism of Vladimir Putin getting blowback from the Kremlin. 
 <br>[10:15:03]
 
Joe Biden called Vladimir Putin, quote, "a crazy SOB" during a fundraising event.  Today Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov described those comments as, 
 
 quote, "rude" and "a huge disgrace," his words, for the United States. 
 
He says, the Russian president has never made one offensive statement toward Mr. Biden. Well, Arlette Saenz joins me from the White House. 
 
What's the context for this comment? 
 
Because it's not the first time that Biden has used SOB as a -- in conversation or in narrative or as an insult, is it?
 
Where was he and who was he speaking to? 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Becky, it might be the first time the president has used that terminology to describe another world leader 
 
 since he's taken office. 
 
But we do know the president has some very stark differences and critiques when it comes to Russian president Vladimir Putin. Just these comments came 
 
 last night in an off-camera fundraiser in San Francisco. 
 
Oftentimes, the president tends to speak a little bit more freely in those types of venues when the cameras aren't rolling and he can be a little more 
 
 unplugged. Now the president was speaking about the threats facing the country, including the threat of climate change. 
 
And then he veered off course a little bit to make the reference to Putin, calling him a, quote, "crazy SOB." But it really comes on the heels of a 
 
 few moments that the president has expressed quite a bit of frustration toward Putin about. 
 
First, it's the war against Ukraine, which is set to hit its two-year mark over the weekend, and most recently, the death of Alexei Navalny. President 
 
 Biden has specifically blamed Putin and his thugs for that. 
 
And he's also trying to use this moment, drawing on Putin, putting Putin in the spotlight, to also draw a sharper contrast with former president Donald 
 
 Trump. The president has really a portrayed Trump's approach to Putin as shameful, dumb and un-American. 
 
He's taken personal insult to the fact that Trump has said that Putin should do whatever the hell he wants to NATO countries not meeting their 
 
 obligations. 
 
He's also frustrated that Trump has not called out and condemned Putin specifically for the death of Alexei Navalny. That is something President 
 
 Biden also spoke about in his remarks last night, saying that he -- that Trump is essentially comparing himself to Navalny. 
 
And saying that, because our country's become a communist country, he was persecuted just like Navalny was persecuted, where the hell does this come 
 
 from?
 
So it all comes as he's trying to draw this contrast with Trump over his approach to Russia, over his approach to Ukraine. Of course, as you noted, 
 
 the Kremlin did not respond too kindly to the president's remarks. 
 
A spokesperson saying, quote, "Clearly Mr. Biden is demonstrating behavior in the style of a Hollywood cowboy to cater to domestic political 
 
 interests." 
 
ANDERSON:  Good to have you, Arlette, thank you. 
 
And criticism of Putin from inside Russia, too. Speaking from his jail cell, Kremlin critic Vladimir Kara-Murza said, he's felt despair and 
 
 despondency following the death of Alexei Navalny but that he will not give up fighting for a free and democratic Russia. 
 
Kara-Murza is serving a 25 year sentence for publicly condemning Moscow's invasion of Ukraine last year. 
 
Vladimir Putin's former speech writer is also disparaging his old boss. Abbas Gallyamov told CNN he sees growing frustration with Putin's 
 
 crackdowns in Russia. In the past week, we have had multiple reports of people being detained at vigils for Alexei Navalny. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABBAS GALLYAMOV, VLADIMIR PUTIN'S FORMER SPEECH WRITER:  Sooner or later, it will definitely backfire because this discontent is growing. And at some 
 
 moment, it will becomes so strong. Probably it would happen at the moment of military defeat or some military rights, something like what happened 
 
 during Prigozhin's time. 
 
Or maybe at some other moment. But it will explode and it will be very strong (ph).
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
Gallyamov also said that he believes that Putin will be relying on battlefield successes in Ukraine, like the recent capture of Avdiivka, to 
 
 boost his popularity ahead of what are Russia's elections next month. 
 
You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson, live from CNN's Middle East broadcasting headquarters here in Abu Dhabi. Coming up, the hot 
 
 button issue of immigration getting even hotter in the United States. What President Biden could do now after the House tanked a bipartisan border 
 
 deal. That's coming up. 
 
Plus U.S. Republicans are rushing to contain the fallout after the informant at the center of their Biden impeachment investigation was 
 
 himself indicted for lying.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 <br>[10:20:04]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(AUDIO GAP)
 
ANDERSON:  -- of the presidential campaign. That is immigration. Sources tell CNN he is considering using executive action to restrict asylum at the 
 
 country's border with Mexico. 
 
Now the situation at that U.S.-Mexico border has dogged Mr. Biden throughout his presidency. The prospect of executive action comes after 
 
 Republicans in the U.S. House tanked a bipartisan measure passed in the Senate that included stricter sanctions -- or, sorry, let me say that 
 
 again. 
 
That included stricter standards to seek asylum. Priscilla Alvarez is back with us this hour from Washington. 
 
If the president does go this route, what should we expect?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, it would be an extraordinary move if you were to choose to do this, because what it 
 
 requires is essentially looking at this authority that already exists in immigration law, that gives the president the power to decide who is 
 
 eligible to enter the United States. 
 
In this context, what the president could do is limit migrants' ability to seek asylum in between ports of entry. So that would apply to people who 
 
 are crossing the border illegally. That is a departure from decades-long protocol.
 
And it is reminiscent of something that former president Donald Trump did in 2018. In that scenario, he used the same authority to shut down asylum 
 
 entirely along the U.S. southern border. 
 
Eventually, courts said that that was not possible and that needed it to be blocked because it conflicted with asylum law. 
 
Now I am told that administration lawyers are reviewing this possible executive action to see if it is legally viable. Now I'm also told by a 
 
 Biden administration official, that this is one of multiple options that the administration is evaluating. But no final decision has been made. 
 
In a statement, a White House spokesperson said the following, quote, "No executive action, no matter how aggressive, can deliver the significant 
 
 policy reforms and additional resources Congress can provide and that Republicans rejected. 
 
"We continue to call on speaker Johnson and House Republicans to pass the bipartisan deal to secure the border." 
 
Of course, the White House referring to that Senate border bill that was worked on by Senate negotiators and White House officials to -- and 
 
 included, in the end, some of the toughest border security measures in recent memory. 
 
That included the extraordinary power for the Homeland Security secretary to shut down the border if certain triggers were met. 
 
Over the course of those negotiations, President Biden embraced this measure, which was a tough one; that being that he'd be willing to shut 
 
 down the border if given the authority. And so this executive action appears to be an extension of that. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
Again, no final decision has been made but certainly marks an evolution for this White House on an issue that has been a political liability since the 
 
 beginning and one that is going to be front and center over the course of this election cycle.
 
Particularly with former president Donald Trumps slamming President Biden over the U.S.-Mexico border. So more to come on all of this, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes and we cannot underscore just how important this is in what is this incredibly fraught election year. Thank you. 
 
On Capitol Hill, House Republicans are refusing to back off efforts to impeach U.S. President Biden, insisting there is still plenty of evidence 
 
 he was involved in a bribery scheme. 
 
Now, of course, this comes even though a former FBI informant charged with falsely accusing the president and his son, Hunter Biden, of taking massive 
 
 bribes from a Ukrainian energy company, says his made-up intelligence came from Russian intelligence officials. CNN's Manu Raju reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR (voice-over):  Republicans defiant in the face of a damning indictment, charging an FBI 
 
 informant of making up a bribery scheme involving President Biden and his son, Hunter. 
 
Allegations central to their impeachment probe into Biden and his family's business dealings. 
 
RAJU:  But your promotion of a bribery scheme was false.
 
JIM JORDAN (R-OH):  Not at all. We're looking at the four facts I just gave you. Those facts are true.
 
RAJU:  Was it right to promote a bribery scheme for the president based on that?
 
REP. MATT GAETZ (R-FL):  Today we're asking questions to James Biden, so we're going to ask him about some of his business relationships with the 
 
 child.
 
RAJU:  Was your brother involved in any of your business dealings?
 
RAJU (voice-over):  Behind closed doors today, the president's brother, James Biden, told House investigators that the president never had any 
 
 involvement in his business activities. All as the GOP is at risk of seeing support for the impeachment effort collapse in the House since they have 
 
 yet to prove that Biden acted corruptly to assist his family.
 
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD):  I think it's time for Chairman Comer and the Republicans to fold up the circus tent.
 
RAJU (voice-over):  After 43-year-old Alexander Smirnov was arrested on charges of lying to the FBI and creating false records, he told the FBI 
 
 that officials associated with Russian intelligence were involved in the false Biden bribery allegations. 
 
And today, special counsel David Weiss asked a judge to keep Smirnov in jail as he awaits trial. Yet, it was Smirnov's allegations that Republicans 
 
 ran with, citing an FBI form known as a 1023 that contained the unverified accusations.
 
KEVIN MCCARTHY, FORMER REPUBLICAN REPRESENTATIVE:  Even a trusted FBI informant has alleged a bribe to the Biden family.
 
RAJU (voice-over):  A key GOP chairman helping lead the probe, even calling it a smoking gun.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We already know the president took bribes from Burisma.
 
REP. JAMES COMER (R-KY):  Those allegations are consistent with a pattern that we've seen in Romania and maybe some other countries.
 
RAJU (voice-over):  And Chairman Jordan indicating the informant's allegations were essential.
 
JORDAN:  The most corroborating evidence we have is that 1023 form from this highly credible confidential human source.
 
RAJU (voice-over):  Today, Jordan downplayed that recent remark. 
 
RAJU:  You said the 1023 is the most corroborating piece of information you have.
 
JORDAN:  It corroborates but it doesn't it doesn't change those fundamental facts. So now -
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
RAJU:  It's not true.
 
RAJU (voice-over):  And Republicans today criticizing the FBI and DOJ for previously calling Smirnov "credible" and paying him for information. 
 
As they circulated talking points, saying the Biden probe has secured more evidence and was not reliant on Smirnov's testimony even as they removed a 
 
 reference to the informant in a letter sent to a witness.
 
RAJU:  But what evidence do you have of a bribery scheme now?
 
QUESTION:  (INAUDIBLE).
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We've got lots of evidence, yes.
 
RAJU (voice-over):  Manu Raju, CNN, Capitol Hill.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, as tensions between the United States and Russia soar, top diplomats from both countries are in Brazil for a meeting of the G20. A 
 
 live report on that is just ahead. 
 
And we will have the latest after a court makes its ruling regarding football star Dani Alves and his sexual assault case.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Welcome back. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me. Becky Anderson. The time here in Abu Dhabi is half past 7 in the evening, half 
 
 past 10 in New York. 
 
Israeli authorities say one person was killed and a number of others injured in a gun attack in the West Bank. They say three armed men opened 
 
 fire at people stuck in a traffic jam on a road near Jerusalem. Israeli police say the shooters were all residents of the Bethlehem area. 
 
Ukraine's forces are claiming they hit a training ground for Russian troops beside the Dnipro River. CNN was able to geolocate footage in this video, 
 
 which Ukraine says shows the attack. It does appear to be of Kherson region, about 20 kilometers from the disputed village of Krynky. 
 
Ukraine says its forces are holding their positions there, despite Russia claiming that it has captured the village. 
 
Sources tell CNN, U.S. President Joe Biden is considering using executive action to restrict asylum at the country's border with Mexico. The prospect 
 
 of executive action comes after Republicans in the U.S. House tanked a bipartisan border measure passed in the U.S. Senate. 
 
The president has faced repeated criticism from Republicans and Democrats on immigration, one of the key issues of the presidential campaign. 
 
(INAUDIBLE) Brazil hosts the foreign ministers for a G20 meeting in Rio de Janeiro this week, the Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva is in 
 
 the midst of a diplomatic spat with Israel. 
 
Israeli foreign minister Israel Katz says Lula da Silva is not welcome in Israel until he apologizes for calling what is happening in the Gaza Strip 
 
 "a genocide." He made those remarks on Sunday. 
 
America's top diplomat on Wednesday told the Brazilian president that the U.S. does not agree with his remarks. Well, journalist Stefano Pozzebon 
 
 joins us now from Bogota. 
 
And it is no surprise that the U.S. secretary of state would have said that to the Brazilian president. After all, that is their position with regard 
 
 Israel. Look, Russia's foreign minister Lavrov is also in Brazil on the opposite side of this, of course, to the U.S. on Israel. This is a real 
 
 spat between Brazil and Israel at this point. 
 
What are we seeing at this point?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  What we're seeing, Becky, I think that more and more countries around the world are looking within 
 
 enforcement and more criticism to the actions of Israel's in Gaza, like if even the U.S. condemned those remarks by Lula and, for example, Israel, of 
 
 course, condemned those remarks about here, Colombia, and neighboring Venezuela. 
 <br>[10:35:03]
 
Both governments presented statements of support of Lula sharing those remarks. Bolivia, for example, and Colombia are both involved in the legal 
 
 actions sought by South Africa at the International Court of Justice to stop the situation in Gaza from deteriorating. 
 
And it shows that the influence of the United States in this region is perhaps waning or long gone are the days where most countries in Latin 
 
 America and South America would follow Washington's lead when it came to geopolitics. 
 
Well, Washington is no longer the main commercial partner for most of the countries here in this region. And that is China, at least for the big 
 
 countries like Colombia and Brazil and Argentina. 
 
And of course, these -- both crises in Europe or in the (INAUDIBLE) area. So Ukraine and the Middle East are bringing more distance between 
 
 Washington and Latin America. 
 
When it comes to the presence of both Blinken and the Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, at that summit in Rio de Janeiro, well, our 
 
 Jennifer Hansler is down there in the Rio de Janeiro area. 
 
She was telling us yesterday that, during a photo op -- opportunity at the beginning of the summit, the two foreign ministers stood at less than 20 
 
 meters from each other and they didn't even look at each other. 
 
In the fight even this year (ph) (INAUDIBLE) eyesight. And, well, it's the first time that the top diplomat from the U.S. made and is in the same room 
 
 as the top diplomats  Russia since the death of Alexei Navalny. Of course, you can imagine how that relationship has frozen (ph).
 
And it will be interesting to see if, when we hear from Blinken in a couple of hours' time, if he will he will address Navalny's death with Lavrov -- 
 
 Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes. You bring up a very good point about watching the body language of those who are gathered, because, frankly, whereas if the 
 
 Russian foreign minister were to attend -- likely not -- but if we were to attend a meeting in the West and hosted in the West, he would likely be 
 
 very much a pariah. 
 
But in a meeting of the G20, many of those countries, of course, have not taken the Western position when it comes to Russia's war on Ukraine or 
 
 indeed, as you rightly point out, the similar position to the U.S. with regard to Israel and Gaza. 
 
Fascinating stuff we will continue to monitor. 
 
Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. Members of the U.S. Congress are on a diplomatic push in 
 
 Taiwan. A delegation from both sides of the aisle is visiting the self ruled island as tensions simmer between Beijing and Taipei. 
 
The group says America will continue to support Taiwan, no matter who wins, November's U.S. presidential election. 
 
Rare bipartisan support there.
 
State media in China says five people were killed after a cargo ship crashed into a bridge near Guangzhou in southern China. The impact broke 
 
 the bridge in half. Officials say five vehicles fell from that bridge, some into the river and others onto that damaged ship. 
 
These are images near a deadly gold mine collapse in Venezuela. President Nicolas Maduro says at least 15 people died after the mine collapsed on 
 
 Tuesday. Search and rescue efforts are underway for others who could be trapped. Mr. Maduro says the mine was operating illegally. 
 
Well, a former football player of Barcelona and Brazil has been found guilty of sexually assaulting a woman and sentenced to 4.5 years in prison. 
 
 The court made its ruling earlier today,
 
The assault happened in December of 2022 at a night club in Barcelona in Spain. Alves was arrested a month later and has spent his time in prison 
 
 since then. Well, for more lets bring in CNN Espanol correspondent, Pau Mosquera. He joins us from Madrid in Spain. 
 
And Pau, just tell us more about what was said in court today and what this means for Dani Alves.
 
PAU MOSQUERA, CNN ESPANOL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Becky, Barcelona provincial court considers to be proven that the relation was not consented and that's 
 
 why they have found guilty Dani Alves of sexually assaulting a woman in December '22, which means for him that will spend some more years between 
 
 bars. 
 
Actually, they have sentenced him to four years and six months in prison. And in addition, he will have to pay $163,000 in compensation to the 
 
 victim. 
 <br>[10:40:02]
 
This morning we have had access to the sentence. The judges justified their decision because there is enough evidence in addition to the testimony of 
 
 the plaintiff to consider the rape proven. 
 
Now, Becky, once the sentence was notified to Alves, his lawyer came to the media and told them that they will be appealing the decision as they 
 
 maintain that the former soccer player is innocent. 
 
But on the other hand, the prosecution lawyer showed himself satisfied with the ruling. But nevertheless, he will (INAUDIBLE) read (ph) the 61-page 
 
 sentence in order to see if it fits the seriousness of the facts. So it means that also the prosecution lawyer could be appealing the ruling in 
 
 order to ask for a higher prison sentence -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  I want you to have a listen along with our viewers to what broadcast journalist Semra Hunter told CNN earlier today, Pau. Have a 
 
 listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEMRA HUNTER, BROADCAST JOURNALIST:  They feel that, for the first time, women are able to take a stand and say, enough is enough. We're tired of 
 
 the machismo, of the sexist abuse that we are basically treated to here in this country. 
 
This is a really good example that we're putting our foot down as women and saying that this is no longer acceptable and that there are consequences. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  There's a wider story, is what she is saying here. She's saying it looks like Spain and Spanish women are saying, enough is enough. 
 
Does that resonate?
 
MOSQUERA:  Yes, absolutely, Becky. Actually, many see on this ruling on, for example, (INAUDIBLE) Luis Rubiales, the example to continue paving a 
 
 path to put an end on all these sexist attitudes that we see in all areas of our life. 
 
Actually from the same Spanish government, we have seen how the Spain deputy prime minister, Yolanda Diaz (ph), has referred to this sentence, 
 
 saying that she hopes the verdict on Dani Alves serves as an exemplary measure for all the sexist behaviors that women suffer in all areas of our 
 
 lives -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Pau, it's good to have you. Thank you very much indeed for joining us out of Madrid in Spain today. 
 
We are broadcasting from our Gulf programming hub here in the UAE. We're back after this quick break, stay with us.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, it is home to Mount Kilimanjaro and Serengeti National Park, Tanzania also has an impressive coastline, of course, on the Indian 
 
 Ocean. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
ANDERSON:  And today on our series, "Call to Earth," we leave the mainland to visit an island nature reserve that is a conservation success story. 
 
 Zain Asher takes us there. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  This is Chumbe Island, a small conservation area off the coast of Tanzania. If not for its 
 
 lighthouse, you'd likely pass by without much thought on your way to the tropical island of Zanzibar, just a few miles away. 
 
But there's much more going on here than meets the eye upon approach. 
 
BENJAMIN TAYLOR, PROJECT MANAGER (voice-over):  So welcome to Chumbe Island. It's a non-for-profit conservation education projects.
 
ASHER (voice-over):  Historically, the island was a military site. But in 1994, it was designated as the country's first marine protected area. The 
 
 protections include a closed forest reserve on land. 
 
TAYLOR (voice-over):  The important thing is that, with the forest, we don't actually do anything to manage the forests set for removal of 
 
 invasive species. So the forest is really as it was before humans, as best as we possibly can. And that's what really important to us. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ASHER (voice-over):  They are more hands-on when it comes to the island's vibrant coral reef sanctuary. 
 
OMAR NYANGE, HEAD RANGER (voice-over):  I have been walking in to me that years and I have seen big changing of the coral (INAUDIBLE). When I come in 
 
 the beginning, I saw many area already destroyed.
 
There are some area we found like dynamite, fishing people, they did dynamite fishing. But now, because we have about 30 years working this 
 
 project, we see the coral grow very well. 
 
TAYLOR (voice-over):  The coral reef is in fantastic shape and it's just got incredible when it's efficient (ph), abundance of available species. 
 
 The biomass is over 1,000, I think 500 kilos factor, which is well-above a healthy baseline for a reef. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  But the protected status doesn't restrict visitors from setting foot on the island. In fact, it relies on them. 
 
TAYLOR (voice-over):  The idea is that we consume these areas for education purposes so that we can bring schoolchildren, community members over to 
 
 Chumbe to learn about the natural environments. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  Guests from around the globe are welcome to visit and stay on the island too. And here you won't have to worry about beating the 
 
 crowds. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You can see only got Chumbe's big five. 
 
TAYLOR (voice-over):  So on Chumbe we only allow 18 guess at one time because, based on our current capacity study, this is the number that we 
 
 can adequately manage to have next to zero impact on the environment. And the idea is that a roof is all one rainwater harvesting collection system. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  From water supply to solar powered electricity. 
 
TAYLOR (voice-over):  So you see the wall is covered in this. It's not paint, it's chalk. So the idea is the chalk goes into the environment. It's 
 
 completely inert. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  Everything is designed with sustainability in mind. 
 
TAYLOR (voice-over):  Ecotourism means that you're looking at ways that you can reduce your energy, reduce your water consumption, reduce your impact 
 
 on the environment. All of these three things are really important for conservation. 
 
ASHER (voice-over):  According to its official website, Chumbe Island Coral Park was the first financially self-sustaining marine protected area in the 
 
 world. A model they hope will encourage those who visit and beyond. 
 
TAYLOR (voice-over):  So them coming to Chumbe and seeing the ecoarchitecture, seeing the rainwater harvesting, seeing the solar panels, 
 
 it's all really important that they can then go home and say, you know what, I can get solar, you know. 
 
Or maybe I can get an electric car or maybe I go and support the local tree planting organization in my hometown, something like that. And that's at 
 
 the heart of Chumbe, which I think is very unique. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Talking about being inspired there. Let us know what you are doing to answer the call with the #CalltoEarth. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu 
 
 Dhabi. We will be back after this.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Visually dazzling and overwhelming in its scale, this is "Dune:  Part Two." I'm sorry to all you fervid fans out there but I happened to be 
 
 one of the very lucky few who has gotten a preview of the film at its Middle East premiere, right here in Abu Dhabi. That was last weekend. 
 
And without revealing any spoilers, let me tell you, this is absolutely spectacular. But don't just take it from me. Hear it from the man behind 
 
 the magic himself, the director, Denis Villeneuve, and two of the film's stars, who I got to sit down with to share what was a magical experience. 
 
 Have a look at this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  An ethereal masterpiece, one of the most highly anticipated films of the year, "Dune:  Part Two" has landed and is already 
 
 making waves -- or should I say sandstorms. 
 
The second part of Denis Villeneuve's adaptation of Frank Herbert's 1965 novel is being described by some as one of the science fiction films of all 
 
 time. And creating magic like that isn't easy. 
 
DENIS VILLENEUVE, DIRECTOR:  It was by far the most challenging project I have done. I think that that, for all the troupe and all the guests (ph), 
 
 it wasn't easy to shoot these shutters in the middle of the desert. It was harsh conditions. I'm really grateful. 
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Much of the film was shot in Abu Dhabi's Liwa Desert, a site used to depict the arid lands of Arrakis and that's why some 
 
 of the film's biggest stars were in the emirate last weekend for the Middle East premiere of the film. 
 
JOSH BROLIN, ACTOR:  Coming back here and wearing suits and all that feels very foreign, you know what I mean?
 
We were out in the middle of nowhere. It was very practical. We did a lot of walking, we did a lot of helping each other out and carrying things. And 
 
 it was a communal, very familial experience. It couldn't help but be. 
 
DAVE BAUTISTA, ACTOR:  I mean, obviously it was an amazing experience but it was almost -- coming into the second film, you're already familiar with 
 
 everyone. You're familiar with the story, you're familiar with the director and your co-stars.
 
So it was just completely comfortable. I didn't feel the pressure of the first film I was -- wanted to prove myself on the first film. That's so my 
 
 role in the second film was bigger, it was --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON:  Would you with a beast (ph)?
 
How is playing a villain (ph)?
 
I hear quite softy in real life.
 
BAUTISTA:  I --
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BAUTISTA:  It is what makes it fun because it's escapism for me in this performance. It wouldn't be any fun just playing myself. I'm a pretty 
 
 boring person. I wouldn't be interesting at all.
 
(VIDEO CLIP, "DUNE:  PART TWO")
 
ANDERSON:  Denis, this you have described as much better or at least better than the first part. 
 
Can you just explain what you meant when you have said that the characters came alive?
 
VILLENEUVE:  I think is that it's just that, as a film director, you learn -- your every move you learn and every bit a dream you experience as an 
 
 opportunity to try to raise the bar and to improve yourself. And I learned a lot doing part one and it allowed me to try to this time to go back 
 
 without doing the same mistake again. 
 
So let's say that the first movie there, it was, there was a lot of homework to do for the audience for the first movie was more like a lot of 
 
 exposition, a little more contemplative (INAUDIBLE). That part has been done. 
 
When you watch "Part Two" now, it's like it's a much more entertaining and playful with (INAUDIBLE).
 
(VIDEO CLIP, "DUNE:  PART TWO")
 
BROLIN:  It was a feral, beautiful experience that I was very sad to leave and very happy to know that it may happen again. Not that we're focused on 
 
 that but it was a lifetime experience. 
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Warner Bros. has not confirmed a third film in the franchise.
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
Not yet at least. But Villeneuve has reportedly said it would be a dream that would make absolute sense. And with the success of "Dune:  Part Two," 
 
 already visible, the world may get another chance to revisit the Duniverse.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  When I say that success already visible, I mean, seriously, just read the crits from those who have seen this movie, described as magical, 
 
 captivating and by more than one as possibly one of the, if not the science fiction movie of a generation. 
 
I know you science fiction movie aficionados out there will have something to say about that @beckycnn. You can fire away but that is what is being 
 
 said. I will just call this captivating. It really is a remarkable movie. 
 
That is it for CONNECT THE WORLD, stay with CNN. "NEWSROOM" with Rahel Solomon is up next. 
 
END