Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Harris Campaign Trolls Trump Over Talk With Elon Musk; Interview With Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY); Putin Vows Revenge on Ukraine. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired August 13, 2024 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:01]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  What do you think Putin's response to Ukraine could actually look like? 
 
WESLEY CLARK, CNN MILITARY ANALYST:  He's arranged for Iran to give him some 1,000 long-range missiles, probably SA-300, SA-400, that can be used to really blanket the Ukraine penetration and also exact revenge against cities in Ukraine. 
 
So Iran has agreed, apparently, to give him 1,000 missiles. I think that's his most appropriate or accurate response, because he can't seem to get his forces together and really bring force on the ground against -- when Ukrainians went in, they went in with electronic warfare, they went in with drones, they went in with a really well- conceived plan of protection. 
 
So it's not just the troops on the ground. It's the combined arms, the combat multipliers that they brought in that have enabled them to be so successful and that are frustrating Russian efforts to stop this. 
 
BLITZER:  General Clark, I want you to listen and our viewers to listen to what Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is saying about all of this. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  It is only fair to destroy Russian terrorists where they are, where they launch their strikes from, Russian military airfields, Russian logistics. We see how useful this can be for bringing peace closer. 
 
Russia must be forced into peace if Putin wants to continue waging war so badly. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  So what do you think, General? Do you think he's right that this potentially could force Russia to the negotiating table and withdraw its forces from Ukraine? 
 
CLARK:  I think it's a quicker path to the negotiating table than simply a head-on assault to try to regain Ukrainian territory. But, Wolf, our allied governments have to support Ukraine in this. The
 
 United States is not supporting, and the new British government has just denied the Ukrainians the right to use the long-range Storm Shadow missiles. So they're opening up the Ukrainians to less-than- optimal results on this. 
 
If we want a peace in the region, we have got to follow what President Zelenskyy is saying. This is the most direct path to put the pressure on Putin to call off the aggression, pull back, and resolve this issue. This is much more effective, as of right now, and if it will be fully supported, then another renewed assault to try to bust through to Crimea. 
 
This is a moment of time, of opportunity. But if the United States and Britain don't provide the assets to reinforce this, then it's not going to have the desired effect. 
 
BLITZER:  Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina met with President Zelenskyy in Ukraine yesterday and strongly reiterated his support for Ukraine. Do you think, General, that Ukraine's actions right now, moving across the border into Russia, could have any direct impact on U.S. support, which is so critical to Ukraine right now? 
 
CLARK:  I suspect that behind the scenes, there are those in Washington who are urging the Ukrainians to halt, to stop, to wait right here, and there's probably talk going back and forth. 
 
We're hearing reports that the Soviet minister of defense is trying to talk to Secretary Austin and so forth. But the United States has to find a way through this, because the alternative is a stalemate that isn't a stalemate. 
 
Some kind of a freeze in place would simply result in Russian rearmament and a quick restart of the conquest of Ukraine. 
 
So, this is, it seems to me, an opportunistic way to bring Russia to the negotiating table if we put the combat power that we have made available to Ukraine, let them use it in this to go after exactly what President Zelenskyy said, the manufacturing, the launchpads, where they take it from, and keep Russian forces at bay, take away their own offensive striking power, and this way bring Russia to the negotiating table. 
 
BLITZER:  General Wesley Clark, as usual, thanks very much for your expertise. We really appreciate it. 
 
CLARK:  Thank you, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER:  And we will be right back with more news. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:38:56]
 
BLITZER:  A last-ditch effort to bring Hamas and Israel to the negotiating table is not expected to stop Iran from potentially striking Israel, that according to two diplomatic sources. 
 
The terror group blames Israel for the assassination of its top political leader last month. 
 
Joining me now, Democratic Congressman Gregory Meeks of New York. He's the ranking member, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. 
 
Congressman, thanks so much for joining us. 
 
What's the latest you are hearing about a potential strike against Israel? 
 
REP. GREGORY MEEKS (D-NY):  Well, very concerned.
 
It's why we moved a number of different ships into the area and submarines. But at the same time, we're hoping to get a cease-fire, because it's still believed -- and I know what you just reported -- but if we could get a deal done, we believe that that could de- escalate the situation on the ground and get the hostages home. 
 
And I think that that's the way that we ultimately end Hamas governing, utilizing the other allies that we have in the region, along with Israel. 
 <br>[11:40:02]
 
But I hope that Iran sees that there's no need to continue this or to strike back, because they then would also then have to be concerned themselves because the United States will stick by Israel in that regard and there will be too many innocent deaths in the region. 
 
I'm worried about the explosion in the Middle East. 
 
BLITZER:  You're the ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. 
 
Are you convinced right now that an Iranian attack against Israel can be avoided? 
 
MEEKS:  Yes, look, diplomacy is hard, Wolf. 
 
And I know that the president has his very best negotiators there, along with Egypt and Qatar. So I'm hoping that Israel and Hamas both come and they have a negotiation. I think that the president's agreement, cease-fire is in place, something that I think that all sides had agreed upon. 
 
The devil is in the details and the implementation of it. So I believe that, if we can get a deal done there, then it would make sense for all sides to say, stop the violence and the war, so that the Middle East does not blow up, causing thousands of deaths on all sides. 
 
And that's what we are focused on preventing. So I hope that we do the cease-fire and let diplomacy work. BLITZER:  A far right high-ranking member of the Israeli cabinet made
 
 another provocative visit to the Al-Aqsa compound in Jerusalem, the mosque built on the Temple Mount. The visit comes on the day that Jews commemorate the destruction of the temple, Tisha B'Av, this Jewish commemorative day. 
 
It's a fast day for a lot of Jews. Hamas condemned the visit, as did families of the hostages being held by Hamas in Gaza. Do you believe Israel wants a cease-fire? 
 
MEEKS:  Well, look, I'm not -- I don't know. I know that the administration have said publicly -- I mean, there's conversations that I have had in classified sessions, which I'm not going to repeat here, but the administration has said publicly that, if there's not an agreement soon, that they will talk on both sides as to who is preventing the cease-fire from happening. 
 
So that will happen with Egypt and Qatar. They will talk together about why it's not being -- going forward. I met with the families of the hostages when they were in Washington, D.C. I, like them, desperately want those loved ones home and a cease-fire. And so I would hope that all parties get to the negotiating table. 
 
Let's get this deal done. Let's try to de-escalate what's taking place and then hopefully move toward a two-state solution, so that there can be peace in the area. 
 
Wolf, I have a problem with the number of the innocents that are dying. And it seems to me, if we don't get to a cease-fire, no -- I want to get rid of Hamas. I don't want Hamas to be governing. 
 
But what's happening is, if we continue the way we're going, Hamas will rejuvenate itself by getting new members. As you kill some, you will get new that will automatically join. That's not the way to peace in the Middle East. 
 
BLITZER:  The latest information we're getting, Congressman, is that sources are telling us that Hamas will return on Thursday to these cease-fire and hostage release negotiations, whether they take place in Doha, Qatar, or Cairo, Egypt. That's scheduled for Thursday. 
 
That's a very, very critical moment in all of what's going on right now. What's the latest you're hearing about this? 
 
MEEKS:  So, I am hearing that now Hamas had been holding out, saying that they had agreed to the principles before and they didn't want to move. 
 
But that's a good sign for me, because I heard Israel said that they will be there also. I hope no one tries to put any new conditions to this, and let's stick with the basic principles of -- the cease-fire agreement is, so that we can move in a rapidly -- in a rapid form. 
 
That is the way I believe that we will stop innocent lives from being lost and we will see individuals -- because individuals, Wolf, in the streets of Israel are all asking for peace. Individuals here, around the world is asking for a cease-fire. And I think that's the way to go. 
 
So I'm hopeful that all sides get there, something is negotiated, and we can de-escalate what's taking place in the Middle East right now. 
 
BLITZER:  Yes, that would be so encouraging, a cease-fire, coupled with the release of all the remaining Israeli hostages in Gaza right now. 
 
Democratic Congressman Gregory Meeks of New York, as usual, thank you very much for joining us. 
 
MEEKS:  Thank you for having me, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER:  You're welcome. 
 
The Trump campaign is celebrating the former president's two-hour-long chat last night with Elon Musk. But some of his allies worry it did more harm than good. We're going to tell you why. We have got new information. 
 
Stay with us. You're in the CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:49:09]
 
BLITZER:  Yet again, former President Donald Trump is praising some of the world's most ruthless dictators. 
 
During his meandering two-hour-long conversation last night with Elon Musk, Trump outlined what he believes, a strong relationship with Russia's President Putin, China's President Xi, and North Korea's Kim Jong-un is in America's best interest. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (R) AND CURRENT U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I know Putin. 
 
ELON MUSK, OWNER, X:  Yes.
 
TRUMP:  I know President Xi. I know Kim Jong-un of North Korea. I know every one of them. They're at the top of their game. They're tough. They're smart. They're vicious. 
 
Getting along well with them is a good thing, not a bad thing. I got along well with Kim Jong-un. 
 
MUSK:  Yes.
 
TRUMP:  I know Putin very well. I got along with him very well. He respected me. And it's just one of those things. I told him things that -- what I do, and he said, no way. And I said, way. 
 
(END AUDIO CLIP)
 <br>[11:50:01]
 
BLITZER:  All right, let's discuss with Democratic strategist Bakari Sellers and former adviser to Trump's 2016 presidential campaign Matt Mowers. 
 
Matt, this morning Trump's advisers are celebrating the talk as a major success, the talk with Elon Musk, but some allies, as you know, are privately questioning the strategy behind it. Was this a great opportunity to reach voters or another off-message sit-down? 
 
MATT MOWERS, FORMER TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AIDE:  No, look, I mean, you had, I think the reports are out saying about 73 million or so Americans tuned in -- or, I should say, 73 million people utilized X to watch it and listen to it. 
 
That's an incredibly astounding number. And it's smart in a lot of ways, because it allows him to go directly to voters. And no offense to all of us who are on CNN and a lot of other networks, but he doesn't have to have anything filtered to connect with voters. He's able to do it directly. 
 
I think it was actually a really smart idea. It contrasts also sharply with looking at Kamala Harris' schedule, I mean, the fact that here we are three weeks in to being the nominee of her party, and she still hasn't sat down for a single interview, answered a single question about why she's trying to flip-flop on some of these radically left- wing positions that she's held in the past. 
 
And I will just comment real quickly on that clip you played, Wolf, because I served the State Department. I'm actually in Vienna right now as part of the E.U.-U.S. forum. We were just with Ric Grenell for an event, Ambassador Grenell.
 
And he brought up something in the discussion we had actually that was very interesting. He said, the important thing is to be able to not just have a threat, but a credible threat. And so when Donald Trump is saying, I would say way, not no way, that's a way of backing up words with deeds with foreign leaders. 
 
And that's the reason you saw didn't see Vladimir Putin rolling into Ukraine or a lot of the other types of activity that he's taken since Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have been in charge. 
 
BLITZER:  Bakari, let me get your response to what we just heard. 
 
BAKARI SELLERS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Yes, I mean, first of all, it wasn't 73 million viewers who watched that last night. I just want to do a little fact-checking. You had 73 million impressions. 
 
In fact, there were about 1.3 million people who tuned in to watch it, which was the size of maybe a White Dudes for Kamala call on zoom. There may be more to pick it up or watch on YouTube as we go throughout the day. And that's fine. 
 
But what you heard last night and why many Democrats are just very thrilled every time Donald Trump opens his mouth is this kind of lispy, old, rambling off-kilter speech that Donald Trump gives. It's no reassurances to anyone that he's going to be able to home in a message on Kamala Harris, which they haven't been able to do, or, two, actually and effectively lead the country at 78 years old.
 
Whether or not he's hovering over a phone or whether or not he is rambling in Montana, he still is 78 years old and will be the oldest person to ever be president of the United States of America. In fact, I want to recall something that Elon Musk actually posted on X when he was supporting Ron DeSantis. 
 
He questioned whether or not an executive could be 82 years old. And just to compare the schedules briefly, this is the second time that Donald Trump has come down to his lobby and performed this duty of either a press conference or talking to Elon Musk. 
 
But Kamala Harris has actually gone to voters and she's gone out on the campaign trail. We have actually covered it here. Every major news outlet has covered her speeches and getting thousands and tens of thousands of people. 
 
I think Donald Trump has been to one place outside of his lobby at Mar-a-Lago, and that was Montana. And so we can contrast the energy, we can contrast the style, but, right now, one campaign is going upwards, and the other one is plateauing. And I'd rather be the campaign going up than plateauing any day of the week. 
 
BLITZER:  Matt, I want to get your reaction to something else that Trump said last night in that interview, or conversation, whatever you want to call it, with Elon Musk. 
 
He said this. He said: "I think a lot of suburban women like me a lot."
 
But take a listen to this, Matt, what he said about his female opponent in this presidential contest. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN AUDIO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  Kamala wouldn't have this conversation. She can't, because she's not smart. 
 
MUSK:  No.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
TRUMP:  You know, she's not a smart person, by the way. 
 
But she's getting a free ride. 
 
MUSK:  Yes. Yes.
 
TRUMP:  I saw a picture of her on "TIME" magazine today. She looks like the most beautiful actress ever to live. I -- it was a drawing. 
 
MUSK:  Yes. TRUMP:  And, actually, she looked very much like a great first lady,
 
 Melania. She looked...
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
MUSK:  Yes.
 
TRUMP:  She didn't look -- she didn't look like Camilla (sic). That's right. But, of course, she's a beautiful woman, so we will leave it at that, right? 
 
(END AUDIO CLIP)
 
BLITZER:  He meant Kamala. 
 
What was your reaction to that, Matt? 
 
MOWERS:  I mean, look, I think that was Donald Trump's attempt at some flattery and to try to see -- actually slightly magnanimous in a moment. 
 
Obviously, he did it in his own style and own way. But I think, to your earlier point about whether Donald Trump is going to do well with suburban women, I think he's going to do well in a number of these communities because of the record of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. 
 
I mean, it's not just suburban women. I mean, everyone is going to the grocery store and still paying for these stubbornly high prices. We see unemployment that's actually gone up in the last labor jobs report. 
 <br>[11:55:05]
 
You have a lot of folks still deeply concerned about crime, particularly in a lot of places, I mean, urban areas, but across the board. And I think those are the issues that are going to resonate. It's really going to be, at the end of the day, do -- who's going to make you feel safe? 
 
Who was -- did I feel safer under Donald Trump or did I feel safer under Joe Biden and Kamala Harris? Could I afford more under Donald Trump or can I afford more under Joe Biden and Kamala Harris? That's going to be what voters decide on. And I think, yes, he will do very well in the suburbs, as well as across the board, as a result. 
 
BLITZER:  All right, we will -- I will leave you with this thought, though. Then we got to move on. 
 
Kamala Harris is doing a lot better in many of these most recent polls against Trump than Biden did. And, presumably, the Trump people are getting very, very nervous about that. 
 
Matt Mowers, Bakari Sellers, to both of you, let's continue this conversation down the road. 
 
And, to our viewers, thanks very much for joining me here in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Wolf Blitzer in Tel Aviv. I will be back later tonight 5:00 p.m. Eastern for a two-hour special edition of "THE SITUATION ROOM." 
 
Stay with us. "INSIDE POLITICS WITH DANA BASH" starts right after a short break.