Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Oprah Winfrey Gives Speech at Democratic National Convention; Minnesota Governor and Democratic Vice Presidential Candidate Tim Walz Gives Speech at Democratic National Convention; Donald Trump Attempts to Distance Himself from Project 2025 Document Describing Conservative Policies for Republican Presidential Transition. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired August 22, 2024 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER:  It caused panic buying and shortage at has stations. So clearly, cyberattacks on energy can have real world consequences. 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  It just shows how hard it is for companies to stay ahead of it.
 
EGAN:  Yes. They have to be right every time.
 
BOLDUAN:  Exactly. It's great to see you. Thank you so much, Matt. Much more to come on that. 
 
A new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts now. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  I'm Sara Sidner with John Berman on this final day of the Democratic National Convention. Kate Bolduan is in New York, but here in Chicago, we are just a few more speeches, celebrities, some musical performances, Pink, away from the moment everything has been building up to, a historic keynote speech tonight from Democratic presidential nominee, almost, Kamala Harris.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Last night it was her running mate, Governor Tim Walz.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. TIM WALZ, (D) MINNESOTA:  Your kids' freedom to go to school without worrying about being shot dead in the hall.
 
(CHEERING)
 
WALZ:  Look, I know guns. I'm a veteran. I'm a hunter. And I was a better shot than most Republicans in Congress and I got the trophies to prove it.
 
(CHEERING) 
 
WALZ:  But I'm also a dad. I believe in the Second Amendment, but I also believe our first responsibility is to keep our kids safe.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER:  There was a heartfelt moment, too, when Walz mentioned his family, and you saw his son overcome -- there he is, Gus -- with emotions, stand and mouth the words, "That's my dad" just with absolute pride. And in a big surprise for the crowd, Oprah Winfrey showed up and gave a rare political endorsement, encouraging registered independents like herself to get out and vote for Kamala Harris. She also took a swipe at Trump's running mate J.D. Vance and his childless cat lady comments.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OPRAH WINFREY:  We are not so different from our neighbors. When a house is on fire, we don't ask about the homeowner's race or religion. We don't wonder who their partner is or how they voted. No. We just tried to do the best we can to save them. And if the place happens to belong to a childless cat lady --  
 
(CHEERING)
 
WINFREY:  -- well, we try to get that cat out too. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  With us now, CNN senior political analyst Mark Preston, also Terry Szuplat, former speechwriter for President Barack Obama and author of the upcoming book, "Say It Well, Find Your Voice, Speak Your Mind, Inspire Any Audience." 
 
Mark Preston, I want to start with you because you're the only person I know who is probably a bigger celebrity than Oprah Winfrey.
 
MARK PRESTON, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  That's true.
 
BERMAN:  I do want to talk about tonight first, what we're going to see. Vice President Harris, yes, she's been vice president now for almost four years. Yes, she is the Democratic nominee. But American voters, some of them say they still don't know her that well. So what does she have to do here? What is left for her to do? 
 
PRESTON:  Best-case scenario is for her to take what Michelle Obama did 48 hours ago and deliver that same kind of energy. What she needs to do, which is amazing, because people don't remember her, which just shows you that the psyche of the American memory since COVID. she ran for president. She's been on the debate stage. She's been in the United States Senate. But she has taken a behind the scenes role as we've seen as vice president, as most vice presidents do. She needs to sell herself and look not only strong, but confident to the American people tonight.
 
SIDNER:  I'd just like to congratulate you on writing some really good speeches for Obama. (LAUGHTER)
 
SIDNER:  If you were writing a speech tonight for Kamala Harris, what would you put in it? What would be a couple of maybe zingers or lines that you'd want people to remember forever?
 
TERRY SZUPLAT, FORMER OBAMA SPEECHWRITER:  Sure. Actually, the most important thing she can do tonight is what Tim Walz did last night, which is tell a story, tell us who you are. Tell us where you come from, what your values are. I mean, I teach political speechwriting at American University. I would encourage every elected official, every political candidate in this country, everybody, I would beg them to watch and study that speech last night. That was a master class in how to connect, not just speak at voters, speak to voters, but to connect with them. He didn't engage in all the usual slogans and word salad that you hear from so many politicians. He just got up and told a story as a husband, a father.
 
Kamala Harris could do something similar tonight, get up and just tell the story of your life, where you come from, your family, working at McDonalds, you know, the things that people can relate to. 
 <br>[08:05:09]
 
Let's hear those stories. Let's tell us who you are. That's who the American people can vote for. 
 
BERMAN:  Let me ask a follow here, because Mark McKinnon, who famously worked for George W. Bush's campaigns, also McCain, he called the Tim Walz speech the most authentic speech he'd ever seen in American politics. And I thought that some people might say that's somewhat hyperbolic. You've been in this game a long time. But you seem to be saying that this was something -- 16 minutes long, it wasn't long -- that this was something different?
 
SZUPLAT:  You know whose speech was 16 minutes long? Barack Obama, 2004. You do not have to say -- talk a lot to say a lot. I think that's a big mistake that so many politicians, so many of us make our lives. We think we have to talk for 30 minutes, 50 minutes to make a point. He did all of that in 16 minutes. Again, all he did, he got up. He just told you what he was like as a father, a husband, a coach, a veteran. He told stories from that experience. 
 
And think about what he did. He wrapped everything -- it was a political speech. Make no mistake. It has edges to it, but it wasn't a partisan speech. You didn't hear the words "Republican" and "Democrat" over and over again. He talked about working with Republicans. He framed everything around the very simple, basic idea of being a good neighbor. We do these things because it means being a good neighbor, taking care of one another. That's where these policies come from. It really was a masterclass, and I just, I would bag politicians to just, to study this. This is what we -- this is how you connect with voters. 
 
SIDNER:  Interesting, when you said masterclass, I could have sworn you were going to be like Michelle Obama's speech the night before. But the fact that you saw that in Walz is really, really fascinating for someone who writes speeches. 
 
I mean, I am curious, Mark, just quickly ticking off, what stood out the most to you last night? Because of course Tim Walz was supposed to steal the show. It was a short speech, but it seemed to certainly resonate with those inside of the convention.
 
PRESTON:  A couple things. One is brevity is a virtue, OK? So 16 minutes --   
 
BERMAN:  Wrap. That's what they say in our ear, "wrap." 
 
PRESTON:  No, no, no, no, no. Certainly brevity is a virtue, and to build upon what you're saying is that Tim Walz looked comfortable in his own shoes. OK, so he wasn't up there. He was selling himself, but he wasn't overselling himself. He was being himself. And I think that is very important. 
 
But two takeaways very quickly. We all thought it was going to be Oprah Winfrey was going to steal the show. Obviously, Tim Walz's son, I mean, he stole the show. He sold it for his father last night. But I would also say look at Wes Moore, I mean, the governor of Maryland. That guy is run for president some point. No question. 
 
SIDNER:  You heard it here first.
 
BERMAN:  I think it was Tommy Vietor on the "Pod Save America", on his website, says something to the effect of a governor who gave a great speech and never skips arm day is how he described Governor Wes Moore. 
 
PRESTON:  He went and practiced with the University of Maryland Terrapins for like the whole day a couple of weeks ago.
 
BERMAN:  He could probably start at the University of Maryland. That's more of a comment on them than it is on him. 
 
SIDNER:  John is jealous of his arms, that's what we've learned today. 
 
BERMAN:  There has been some talk. Scott Jennings, Republican, was here before saying that the Democrats here so far, and Governor Walz and leading up to this, they haven't told you what they will do. Harris hasn't said really what she will do if she's president. How much of that should be in a convention speech? 
 
SZUPLAT:  Right. Of course, I take issue with that. Obviously, if you listen to Donald Trump and the Republicans, they seem convinced they know exactly what she's going to do and so they just turn it every day. I mean, I think it's very clear. I mean, the section of his speech where, again, he talked about what freedom really is. You heard it all, a strong defense of work families, strong defense of, again, what the Democrats are going to do for families like his. 
 
I think it's important to remember that political speeches at a political convention or not State of the Union speeches. We don't come here for a laundry list of 30 policies. That's not what this is about. This is the thematic beginning of the general election campaigns. So I think that's why his speech was so effective last night, the thematics, and you talk about seeing his son. You can't script that. You can't make that up. That's just authentic. 
 
And you say the best leaders, the best politicians, all of us, in business politics, whatever, there are people who are comfortable in their own skin, they know who they are. They don't need an adviser or a poll to tell them what to say or what to believe. And so we heard that last night. I think we're going to hear tonight. 
 
SIDNER:  It sounds like you're saying it has to be heart, not head, and that's what we keep seeing resonate with people. 
 
SZUPLAT:  It's both together, and I think a lot of politicians struggle with what the balance.
 
SIDNER:  Terry, Mark, thank you, guys, so much for coming on this morning.
 
Over to you, Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN:  Thank you, guys. We'll get right back to you. 
 
This morning, Donald Trump is launching a new attack on Democrats at the convention this week, this time for their focus on the controversial Project 2025 and linking Donald Trump to it. 
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
CNN's Kristen Holmes is in Arizona where Trump is campaigning today. Kristen, what is he saying this morning? 
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Kate, I mean, look, Project 2025 has become a real liability for the former president, and Democrats have seized on this opportunity. And just a reminder to our viewers of what it is, it is a 900-page document that was created by a lot of former Trump administration officials to serve as sort of a roadmap for a potential transition. Now, they said it was for any Republican potential president, but obviously, now it has been linked to Donald Trump, particularly given the fact that, again, so many people who currently advise Donald Trump and served in his administration were part of crafting it.
 
And it's very controversial. Some of the policy decisions in there or policy rights in there are very far right. And Donald Trump has really had to distance or tried to distance himself. And Democrats have seized on that. We've seen it throughout the convention, and that's something that's annoyed Trump, which you heard today when he did an interview on FOX. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, (R) U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  No idea what it was. A group of people got together, they drew up some conservative values, very conservative values, and in some cases, perhaps they went over the line, perhaps that didn't. I have no idea what Project 25 is. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) HOLMES:  Now, obviously, he does know what Project 2025 is. And again, it has become quite a thorn in his side and something that he and his campaign have had to contend with. He has continued to say he had nothing to do with it. But Kate, I cannot stress this enough. Part of the reason why Donald Trump is linked to Project 2025 is because of the authors who crafted it.
 
BOLDUAN:  That's exactly right, Kristen. Great to see you. Much more from Kristen Holmes throughout the day. Donald Trump campaigning at the border, trying to, obviously, continue his counterprogramming effort throughout the week. Thank you so much. Get back to you.
 
John? 
 
BERMAN:  All right, Stevie Wonder, John Legend, and our favorite Sheila E., because you've got love Percussion. She's there near John Legend, I promise you. 
 
SIDNER:  Nope, that's not her.
 
BERMAN:  Not her either.
 
SIDNER:  But there are dancers.
 
BERMAN:  If you come back after the break, we promise we'll show you Sheila E. We'll also talk about what you might see here on the convention floor tonight. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:16:45]  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
SEN. CORY BOOKER (D-NJ): Joy.  
 
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): Joy, joy, joy.  
 
WINFREY: Joy.  
 
BOOKER: We will be joyful warriors. We are going to bring back to the journey of our nation joy. Tonight is about joy.  
 
STEVIE WONDER, AMERICAN SINGER-SONGWRITER AND MUSICIAN: We need to choose joy over anger.  
 
JEFFRIES: The Scripture tells us that weeping may endure during the long night, but joy will come in the morning.  
 
BILL CLINTON, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Like Hakeem Jeffries, I too want an America that's more joyful.  
 
WINFREY: Let us choose honor, and let us choose joy.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
BERMAN: This joy person was very popular at the Democratic National Convention. No, I mean, look, the message, not subtle --  
 
SIDNER: Not bad.  
 
BERMAN: --at all.  
 
SIDNER: Yes.  
 
BERMAN: As many of the speakers as possible use the word joy as many times as they possibly could. With us now is the Governor of New York Democrat Kathy Hochul. Governor, thank you so much for being with us. How much is joy a real viable strategy?  
 
GOV. KATHY HOCHUL (D-NY): What it does is it lifts up the human spirit. When people start talking in those terms and reminding people that America is not a hellhole. It's not a dark place, it is not a place that is abhorrent to others the way Donald Trump describes it. It's about time we bring that sense of happiness and optimism back into the political conversations.  
 
I mean, Ronald Reagan talk about "Morning in America," it lifted people's spirits up. We have that same opportunity now to start changing the dialogue, the climate around the politics. It doesn't have to be so visceral and so cruel and that's exactly what this convention has been about.  
 
SIDNER: John, you missed the opportunity to say it is a joy to have you on this morning, Governor Hochul. I do want to --  
 
HOCHUL: Thank you. It is a joy to be back.  
 
SIDNER: -- to ask. I do want to ask you about how this is going to need to be in order to have this all translate this joy into votes. What do Democrats need to do in your mind to keep this momentum going? 
 
HOCHUL: First of all, the thousands of people who have been joining every night for this convention, they are going back to their hometowns, cities, rural areas with that sense of -- the sense that they have to bring more people along with them. They will find others to experience the same joy and happiness that is associated with the Harris-Walz campaign. So you have those people in that room.  
 
But there are millions of Americans who are tuning in, who all of a sudden are thinking, you know what, we're not talking about dark things. We're not talking about stripping away women's right to have an abortion, like one out of three women in America today live under an abortion ban because of Donald Trump.  
 
They want us to have a sense that things are going to turn better, that we're turning the corner on all that negativity. And when this election is over, and Kamala Harris is elected because of all the people who may not have been tuning in politically, but are so sick and tired of being taken down to a dark place by Donald Trump, it is going to change the political discourse and the body politic, for I think for the next generation.  
 
Once we have the post-Trump era, which I can't wait for, the post- Trump era when the Republican Party starts rebuilding itself, using statesmen of the past as their role models and not the cult of personality that is Donald Trump, everything is going to change for the better. It's long overdue, but we're on the cusp of it as soon as Kamala Harris and Tim Walz are elected in November.  
 
BERMAN: But is joy a governing plan? I mean if you're running for president, I can't imagine Vice President Harris will say tonight, to the people, I promise you to joy.  
 
I mean, does she have to lay out but more of what she will do more than just how she wants to make people feel?  
 <br>[08:20:49]  
 
HOCHUL: No, joy is just an emotion. It's an emotion that has been long overlooked in politics since Donald Trump was elected back in 2016. So, that just brings that sense of possibility, that American can-do spirit that was missing, so, that's not what she's saying is going to be her economic plan to put more money back in the pockets of everyday hardworking Americans.  
 
This is a convention speech. It's a big pep rally, it's fun, it's exciting. So I don't think it's a fair criticism to say that, oh, that means she doesn't have a strong economic plan.  
 
I don't hear a lot of people saying, well, where's the economic plan of Donald Trump other than Project 2025? So let's be fair in the comparison.  
 
You will hear her plans. There's plenty of time for that to get out there, but this introduces the people to the American public and that's exactly what they did already with Tim Walz. I think he just created an expectation and excitement and energy that people didn't expect in this.  
 
And again, that goes back to Kamala Harris' decision-making. Her first major decision that she made on the national and global stage was to select an individual who represented the heart and soul of Middle America. And he's so relatable.  
 
Now, that's going to bring people to the election with a sense of -- we can do this, we can turn this around. He have a coach who's one of our leaders. And Kamala Harris, you'll hear all her plans.  
 
So why don't you ask where Donald Trump his like 20-point plan is to get more money back in the pockets of America? Have you ever heard that? You've heard his plan to get more money back in the pockets of billionaires. So that's the kind of analysis that should be talked about, not the criticism of a convention where people are just so happy to be together.  
 
BERMAN: Governor Kathy Hochul, thanks so much for being with us. Really appreciate your time this morning.  
 
One of the governor's constituents, Westchester County's own former President Bill Clinton says --  SIDNER: Arkansas is going to be really mad at you this morning --  
 
BERMAN: Well, he doesn't live in Arkansas anymore. He lives in Chappaqua.  
 
SIDNER: -- I'm just letting you know.  
 
BERMAN: One of the top -- former President Bill Clinton says that Americans are doing the wrong thing, he says, if they are counting Donald Trump's lies, he says, they should to be counting his I's, listen.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
BILL CLINTON, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'll be so happy when she actually enters the White House as president because she will break my record as the president who spent the most time at McDonald's.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:27:37]  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
CLINTON: He mostly talks about himself, right. So, the next time you hear him, don't count the last count the lies, count the I's.  
 
He's like one of those tenors opening up before he walks out on stage like I did, trying to get it lungs open by saying me, me, me, me, me, me.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
BERMAN: That was former President Bill Clinton, of course, speaking at his 13th Democratic National Convention.  
 
SIDNER: And joining us now, former Republican presidential candidate, Vivek Ramaswamy. Thank you so much, sir, for coming on this morning.  
 
I want to talk to you about you. So lucky for you, we're talking about you right now.  
 
When you were running, do you feel like -- and watching what's happening with Walz and Harris, do you feel like you came in -- would you change the way that you that you tried to run for office, the way that you spoke, what you said on the debate stage?  
 
VIVEK RAMASWAMY (R) FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Look, I was a first-time run for office. I ran for US president. I was the youngest ever presidential candidate in US HISTORY for the Republican Party.  
 
And one of the things that I learned is, the more you can stay on your own vision for the country, the better off you're going to be.  My best moments in the campaign were when I stayed true to our vision
 
 of reviving our national identity. And also when I was able to engage with people who had disagreements with me.  
 
I think we don't do that enough in our politics and those are my favorite moments from the campaign.  
 
What I would do a little differently is I realized it is to directly address your question is, one thing that happens in politics, just new to me coming from the business world, is people come at you personally and they come directly.  
 
And the approach I took is if you're going to hit me, I'm going to hit you back 10 times harder, which you've got to do but you've got to do more than that as well.  
 
And I would say that was part of a learning you're only going to get from running for US president and it was an experience of a lifetime that I'm grateful for.  
 
BERMAN: I do find this very interesting to hear you talk like this. And I have to say we saw this in POLITICO, you did a 45-minute phone conversation and some of the discussions you had with them were just like what you said here and it does relate to what we've heard, I think, at the Democratic National Convention, so far where many of the speakers have said, and I'm sure you disagree with them on policy, but it sounds like they are saying what you're saying, which is that you have to listen to what people are saying.  
 
And you feel like maybe you came in a little hot when you were running in the Republican primary.  
 <br>[08:30:11]