Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: House Committee Will Vote on Impeachment Resolution of Mayorkas on January 31; Immigrants in Eagle Pass Public Park Detained by Texas Officials; Congress Rushes Against the Clock to Avoid Shutdown Before Friday's Deadline; Pakistan Attacks Iranian Territory, Killing 10 People; New U.S. Attacks Against Houthis in Yemen; U.S. 2024 Race; Interview with Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member and Financial Services Committee Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY); 5 Days Remain Until Primary for Nikki Haley's Candidacy in New Hampshire; Following Prosecutor's Murder, Two Individuals Detained by Ecuadorian Police. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired January 18, 2024 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  New this morning, sources tell CNN that the House Homeland Security Committee plans to vote on January 31st on an impeachment resolution to oust Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. Meanwhile, Texas authorities arrested migrants overnight at a public park in Eagle Pass, that's near the border. The migrants are being charged with criminal trespass.
 
CNN's Rosa Flores is in Eagle Pass for us this morning. What's the latest from there, Rosa? 
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, John, this is the state of Texas up in the ante in this continued and ongoing fight with the Biden administration. Let me show you around because we're in Shelby Park. The state of Texas took over this park about a week ago, and you can see that the gate is still here. You see members of the Texas Military Department, their military vehicles. If you look beyond that, you also see more equipment and further a border barrier. 
 
Well, Texas National Guard is reinforcing that border barrier. And for the first-time last night, they also started arresting migrants here at Shelby Park and charging them with criminal trespass.
 
Now, this is part of the Operation Lone Star border initiative that Governor Abbott launched in 2021. They've done this in other areas whenever ranchers or landowners along the Rio Grande give the state of Texas authority to arrest migrants for criminal trespass. What's notable here is that Border Patrol is not allowed to enforce federal immigration law in this park. And so, this is Texas deciding that they are going to enforce the state law for criminal trespass before the federal government can enforce federal immigration laws.
 
Now, it's important to note that according to Texas DPS, they are only arresting single adult men and single adult women. Whenever migrant families crossover or unaccompanied migrant children, those individuals are handed over to Border Patrol.
 
Now, John, we're also waiting to hear -- to see what DHS is going to do. As you know, in that cease-and-desist letter that DHS sent to the state of Texas. The deadline was yesterday, that expired. We're waiting to see what their next move is going to be. John.
 
BERMAN:  Yes, just the people of -- the throngs of people that we were showing pictures of from Eagle Pass a short time ago. That was from December, the end of December. I don't believe that's what it's been looking like the last few days when you've been there. Still, a lot of activity back and forth between the state and the federal government. Rosa Flores, thank you very much for being there.
 
Rahel?
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR:  All right, John. Senate negotiators have been working to try to strike a deal on border security that could unlock more aid to Ukraine and Israel. Lawmakers are also racing the clock to avert a possible partial shutdown as part of the federal government could run out of funding tomorrow.
 
With us now is Democratic Congressman Gregory Meeks of New York. He is a ranking member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a senior member on the House Financial Services Committee. Congressman, good to have you this morning. Welcome.
 
REP. GREGORY MEEKS (D-NY):  Thank you. Thank you for having me.
 
SOLOMON:  So, you were in attendance at that White House meeting yesterday. It's a meeting that's been described by your colleagues on the left and right as productive. They say they're optimistic and confident.
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
But in an interview yesterday, you said you weren't as hopeful. Why not?
 
MEEKS:  Well, you know, it still depends upon the House Republicans. You know, one of the things that they were stuck on was the draconian H.R.2 border bill that they wanted to pass and did not look to seem as though they wanted to compromise. And that's what's the key.
 
So, you know, I feel that there's progress being made on the Senate side. It seems like Senator Schumer, Senator Moynihan, Democrats and Republicans are working on a bipartisan bill, for both the border, as well as for the funding for Ukraine and Taiwan and Israel and humanitarian aid.
 
But the question is, will the House Republicans, because they have been the ones that have not negotiated or have not indicated that they are ready to move off of H.R.2. And so, that is still what is outstanding and I didn't see or hear any affirmative statements that they were ready to move away from H.R.2 on the House side. SOLOMON:  Well, House Speaker Mike Johnson said that he wouldn't need H.R.2 in its entirety or its exact form. Talk to me a bit more, Congressman, about where there has been significant compromise or what seemed to be the sticking points right now.
 
MEEKS:  Well, that's the problem. I think that we have seen compromise and dialogue and conversation on the Senate side. That's why I think that it was important that the President called the meeting yesterday. So, that he's pushing forward, utilizing his experience and expertise, and trying to get people to work together, because basically prior to that, the only ones that were disengaged was House Republicans and the only thing that they were talking about.
 
Now, the Speaker has to deal with his MAGA Republicans on his side to get the votes that he needs. The question is, if he doesn't, is he still going to put up a bill on the floor that we know can pass, and not be held or not just give in to a number of the MAGA Republicans on his side? So, the Speaker says one thing, and then we know, and we've seen in prior episodes where the House MAGA Republicans say something else and then we don't get anything done. 
 
SOLOMON:  So, taking all of that into consideration, what would you say right now at 10:37 a.m. on Thursday? I mean, how close are we to a deal? What would you say now?
 
MEEKS:  Well, I think that first we've got to pass the C.R., of course, and that's what we're looking to do right now. Nothing, you know, I think that that was clear yesterday that the very first thing has to happen is the C.R. is passed today. And then I think that Senate needs to go back, and they will, and they have indicated they will, to negotiate, to see if they can come up with a bipartisan agreement. if they come up with that bipartisan agreement, then it comes over to the House, and that's where the rubber will hit the road. That's where we'll see if the Republicans are ready to move.
 
So, I feel good about the fact that the Senate is negotiating and try -- and will send us a C.R. bill. I feel good about the fact that the Senate, in honesty, is working in a bipartisan way to do both. A border bill. And a -- dealing with Ukraine, Israel, Taiwan, and humanitarian aid, so I feel good about that.
 
The question is -- and this is just based upon prior experience of what has taken place since the Republicans have been on charge here on the Hill, whether the MAGA Republicans would allow something to happen, would allow progress. They have done virtually nothing since they've been in charge for the people of the United States of America. Leader Jeffrey said yesterday, he is ready, willing, and able to negotiate with the Republicans on that. But we've yet to see any movement on that side, and that's where my concern lies.
 
SOLOMON:  Congresswoman, let's go overseas a bit. While we have you, we wanted to ask, I mean, tensions in Central Asia and the Middle East, they seem to grow by the day. We now have Pakistan launching these retaliatory strikes against Iran. Congressman, how concerned are you about what appears to be a real escalation there? MEEKS:  Well, I'm concerned, of course. Now, the Pakistan incident of launching over in Iran seems to be a different border issue with separatists that was there. And that was, I think, something that we have concerns about. But I don't think that is the same thing as taking place in Gaza and Israel. So, it's not an escalation of that part of the Middle East. It's a separate part. Something that we have got to keep our eyes and our watch on. I'm concerned, but I agree with what the President has done.
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
When you see the Houthis continue to try to attack in the Red Sea and stop our commercial ships, et cetera, which will affect the world's economy, and that's why we're working collectively with all of our allies to do that. So, yes, all their concerns, there's concerns there. But again, I think that the experience and the expertise of President Biden, keeping and working with our allies in a collective way is winning -- will win the day.
 
SOLOMON:  Congressman Meeks, we appreciate the time today. Thanks so much.
 
Sara?
 
MEEKS:  Thanks for having me.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  All right. Thanks, Rahel.
 
Donald Trump is ramping up his attacks on rival Nikki Haley ahead of next week's New Hampshire primary. Coming up, the case she's building to voters against the former president. We'll have all of that just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
SIDNER:  This morning, Nikki Haley back on the trail in New Hampshire and taking shots at Donald Trump telling supporters it's time to move on from the former president. Haley's comments come after Donald Trump sharpened his attacks against her just days away from the New Hampshire primary.
 
CNN's Jeff Zeleny is joining us from -- I hope I say this right, Henniker, because I know New Hampshire will come for me if I got it wrong. This morning, that is where the CNN will hold its town hall with Nikki Haley later today. Jeff, what is Haley saying? A lot of people looking at the attacks from Donald Trump and saying he's attacking her in particular because she's got some serious momentum there.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Sara, good morning. We're actually in Hollis, New Hampshire. That town hall, though, tonight is in Henniker, New Hampshire.
 
SIDNER:  OK. ZELENY:  But we just finished an event here with Nikki Haley. She was talking to voters here and really responding to some of the attacks that Donald Trump has been making against her. You can just feel the tension between these two candidates with five days left before that New Hampshire primary. It's been a volley back and forth. It started with Donald Trump accusing her of trying to infiltrate the New Hampshire primary with independents and Democrats.
 
Well, the reality here in New Hampshire, undeclared voters make up 40 percent of the electorate. That is one of the reasons that she has a bit more of a chance here, she believes, and she is running strong. So many voters who we talked to here today were undeclared voters. That means you can pick up a Republican ballot or a Democratic ballot. But since there is not really an action, a contest on the Democratic side, many of them are choosing the Republican ballot and she is certainly one of the candidates for that.
 
But back to this back and forth. She responded quite forcefully to the TV ads running against her by the Trump campaign. Let's take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Do we want more of the same or do we want to go forward in a new direction? And more of the same is not just Joe Biden. More of the same is also Donald Trump. When you think of more of the same, more of the same is the fact that over 70 percent of Americans don't want a Trump-Biden rematch. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENY:  So, she really is presenting herself as this new alternative. And Sara, there are Republicans who have voted for the former president who are responding to it as well as -- as I mentioned, those undeclared voters. So, that's what makes New Hampshire so interesting in the final stretch. She certainly is running strong against him. She'll be taking questions as CNN Town Hall this evening.
 
But some reporters were asking her a few questions this morning. And the third candidate in the race, Ron DeSantis, came up. She said, I'm done with DeSantis, I'm just focusing on Trump. We will see about that as this race moves beyond New Hampshire. But for now, at least, the race is joined between those two, and it's getting quite intense, Sara.
 
SIDNER:  Jeff Zeleny, I just want to say this. For people who do not get to meet you in person, this gentleman here has more facts on each of these states than you can possibly imagine. You are like the trivia guy. It is unbelievable what is in that brain of yours. So, we thank you for taking the time this morning to hang out with us in the freezing cold there in Hollis, New Hampshire, and we will be checking in with you again. Thank you, Jeff.
 
John.
 
BERMAN:  Also, fantastic restaurant recommendations. SIDNER:  John is also the same, by the way, in case you didn't know this. He's, sort of, boy genius. He hides it pretty well, though. There you go.
 
BERMAN:  Yes, absolutely.
 
All right. The breaking news, our team is pouring through a 500-page federal report on the Uvalde massacre. We've got new reporting on what we just learned.
 
And then a violent assassination upends a nation, a prosecutor leading an investigation into organized crime gunned down on his way to a court hearing.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
SOLOMON:  Welcome back. Let's go to Ecuador now where spiraling violence continues with an assassination in broad daylight. A prosecutor was gunned down in his car while driving to a court hearing just three miles away. Police say, two men have now been arrested. Cesar Suarez was investigating the armed takeover of a TV station last week, maybe you've seen the video. Well, that on air attack came amid a surge of explosions and kidnappings after a notorious gang leader allegedly escaped prison.
 
Let's go to CNN's Senior National Correspondent David Culver. He is following the latest for us from Guayaquil, Ecuador. David, what more are you learning? Can you share with us?
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hey there, Rahel. Well, this assassination sending a very loud message from the terror groups to the government here in Ecuador. And as you point out, there are a lot of moving parts here and it's in the midst of a state of emergency that's come as the result of that escape from -- what is believed to have been at least an escape from one of the prisons here.
 
Fito, you mentioned him, he's that notorious gang leader. I say it's believed to have been an escape because interestingly enough, Rahel, I've spoken with one of the top military commanders here, and he says, we're just not sure. And I said, how is it you're not sure this individual escaped from a prison here? Speaks to the dysfunction within these prisons.
 
They're not like what we see in the U.S. or in other places around the world. There are open campuses. There are places where basically the gangs inside control themselves. And on the outside, now you have armed forces and police trying to secure it.
 
[10:55:00 
 
But the fact that this prosecutor, who now was just assassinated was the one investigating, perhaps the most visible aspect of this most recent surge in violence, that TV studio takeover is a very much clear message that the terror groups are not backing down. And if you look behind me here, I mean, you see folks, they're out and about. I mean, this may seem like a very calm, peaceful place. And to be honest, it feels like that at this hour and at this moment. And people I talked to say, you have to take it moment by moment because this is a moment outside of the curfew hours that are still in place here in the midst of this state of emergency where people feel safe. But they say at any time, Rahel, you could have somebody sitting next to you at a restaurant, who's the target of one of these gangs. And suddenly, gunfire will erupt and you're collateral damage.
 
SOLOMON:  Wow. Just chilling. And I think, to your point, David, it really illustrates sort of the chaos, if they can't even speak to where he was if he had broken out of that jail. David Culver, live for use there on the scene in Ecuador. David, thanks so much.
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER:  Still to come, 77 minutes of failure. CNN is combing through the long-awaited DOJ report on the police response to the Uvalde massacre. The latest inside the federal report and what it will mean for the families impacted by that horrific day. That's all ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:00]