Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Can AI News Anchors Protect Journalists? Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired September 20, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello and happy Friyay, everyone. The weekend is here. I`m Coy Wire. And this is CNN 10, where we`re finishing out this week 
 
 strong with the best 10 minutes in news because of you.
 
I am pumped to get into today`s stories with you, so let`s get right to it. We`re going to start with this incredible story in Venezuela where years of 
 
 political conflict and controversial elections in July have led journalists to find innovative ways to safely do their jobs. The two anchors you see 
 
 here are AI avatars of the news program Venezuela Retweets.
 
The show is the brainchild of a group of media organizations who want to protect their real-life journalists from a crackdown on free speech. 
 
 Venezuela has been experiencing political and economic strife since President Nicolas Maduro took over from his in 2013. Since then, he`s used 
 
 democratic processes like referendums to extend his executive power over government while imprisoning political enemies and attacking the judiciary 
 
 branch.
 
Maduro`s time in office has seen political corruption, urban violence, astronomical prices and shortages of goods that Venezuelans took to the 
 
 streets to protest over the years, and deadly protests erupted across the country following its disputed July 28th presidential election that named 
 
 Maduro the winner with little proof. 
 
The authoritarian regime has not stopped cracking down on citizens and journalists since then. Organizations say at least 16 journalists have been 
 
 detained covering the nationwide protests.
 
All but four of them are still behind bars for charges like terrorism. It`s that threat that`s led these journalists to get creative. Because of 
 
 government censorship, most folks get their news on social media. While Venezuela Retweets is streamed online, that makes it harder to trace the 
 
 video and easier for AI avatars to front a newscast. 
 
Now, artificial intelligence doesn`t come without its own risks. In the wrong hands, it can be used to spread disinformation and erode trust in 
 
 institutions.
 
And some of you on social media even asked if I am AI and I can guarantee you that there are no glitches in this system. Actually, there are a lot of 
 
 glitches and that`s how you know I am not AI. All right, our Stefano Pozzebon has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LA CHAMA, AI AVATARS:  (Speaking in Foreign Language)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST:  Hey, Chama, can you speak in English?
 
LA CHAMA:  Of course. And my partner, El Pana, does too.
 
EL PANA, AI AVATARS:  Hello, CNN. Thanks for the invitation.
 
POZZEBON:  And you recognize AI avatars from real journalists. These two avatars were launched by a collective of journalists in Venezuela to 
 
 protect the identities of reporters after the government intensified cracking down on independent media following July`s election. Venezuelan 
 
 authorities proclaimed the strongman Nicolas Maduro the winner without showing any proof.
 
And when people took to the streets to protest, hundreds were detained, including 10 journalists, 24 people died.
 
LA CHAMA:  As avatars, we are, in a way, an expression of the face of journalism that cannot show its face today because of the high risk of 
 
 being detained and prosecuted under hate incitement laws.
 
POZZEBON:  While the images are AI, real journalists script and record the voices of the avatars, their identities protected for safety reasons.
 
EL PANA:  Imagine that even photos taken of the demonstrations have to be distorted because the government can use them to track down citizens who 
 
 are protesting the election results. Over 1,500 people have been detained.
 
POZZEBON:  But how can I be sure that the information you share is real?
 
LA CHAMA:  We always clarify that although we are avatars, we are the result of the intelligence of over 100 Venezuelan journalists.
 
POZZEBON:  AI is sometimes touted as a threat to reliable information and a risk to democracy. But in this case, it has become part of a journalist`s 
 
 safety kit.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. Which of the Earth`s oceans has the highest salinity or concentration of salt? Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Arctic 
 
 Ocean or Indian Ocean?
 
Put your hands up if you said Atlantic Ocean. Of the five ocean basins, it is the saltiest thanks to factors like large drainage areas and trade 
 
 winds.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is the Silver Dragon Tidal Bore on the Qiantang River in China. A bore occurs when the leading edge of an incoming tide 
 
 creates a wave that surges up a river. Tide watching is a Chinese tradition of the mid-autumn festival, which falls on a full moon.
 
This year`s tide was higher than usual after the recent typhoon Bebinca, the strongest storm to hit Shanghai in 75 years, according to state media. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Today`s store getting a 10 out of 10. You might go bunkers for these unique houses. Imagine living in a refurbished bunker 14 feet underground. 
 
 There`s a Cold War time capsule. It`s one of only 1,500 bunkers ever built in the 1950s post-war Britain to protect up to three people from a nuclear 
 
 attack. That and more, take a look with our Jeremy Roth.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY ROTH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Looking for a truly bulletproof real estate bargain? How about this honest to goodness Cold War era bunker 
 
 that`s going up for auction soon. According to SDL Auctions, the bunker was built in the 1950s and is nestled 14 feet below a country field in 
 
 Derbyshire, England.
 
Roughly the size of a garage, this cozy decommissioned bunker retains some of its original charm with classic bunker features like an asbestos fire 
 
 blanket, vintage binoculars, and a still-stocked pantry that`s not at all gross. Also, this ominous Cold War hotline phone for literal red alerts. 
 
But it also has sought-after upgrades like carpeting, velvet drapes, and an unused chemical toilet. Hey, can`t put a price on that. Actually, 
 
 auctioneers expect buyers will fork over up to $26,000 for this homey piece of history, perfect for those looking to shield themselves from a volatile 
 
 real estate market. And also, you know, a thermonuclear blast. 
 
Hey, you know what rocks? This Minnesota home covered in rocks. If you`re passing through the town of Arco, stop and marvel at this craggy crib that 
 
 was once a gas station but is now the uber-unique home of the Herzogs, who`ve lived here for 25 years. Covered in everything from pipestone to 
 
 pink quartz to volcanic rock, it may seem random, but the owners say there`s more here than meets the eye.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It`s not just a bunch of rocks put together. There are designs on this house.
 
ROTH: Finally, if you were holding out for a world champion caliber home, sorry, this one is finally taken after 12 years on the market. NBA legend 
 
 Michael Jordan`s Chicago-area mansion, originally listed in 2012 and sporting nine bedrooms, 19 bathrooms, and a full-size basketball court, is 
 
 finally under contract for a reported $14 million. Eh, you weren`t going to buy it anyway.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  And now for our favorite part of the day, shout-out time. This one goes to Mr. Wilmer`s class at Woodward Academy right here in the ATL 
 
 Atlanta, Georgia. Go War Eagles.
 
And heading out to Cali, out to the left coast soon to interview Simone Biles, as you all know. Thank you for the awesome questions. So this one`s 
 
 going to Castle Park High School in Chula Vista, California. Rise up. 
 
It`s been an awesome week, everyone. Go on out and make someone smile today. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is 
 
 CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END