Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: At a Rally in Ohio, If He Loses Presidential Race, Donald Trump Threatens a "Bloodbath"; Biden Expanding Campaign Trips in Crucial States; Last Day of Voting, Russians Proceed to the Polls; Ukraine Requests Residents of Seized Territories Abstain from Voting; Ukraine Shot Down 14 Russian Drones Over Odessa Overnight; Ukraine Fired 36 Drones Over Russia; Suspect in a Triple Homicide Case Apprehended; Growing Crisis in Haiti; Protesters Outside Netanyahu's Home Call for Elections; UNICEF: Container Stolen in Port-au-Prince Included Supplies for Maternity and Newborn Care; Protests in Israel Ahead of Ceasefire Talks; Discord Between Netanyahu and Biden Seems to be Widening; In the last 24 Hours, At Least 63 People Have Died, Says Gaza Health Ministry; Relief Supplies Sent Into Gaza by Jordan, Germany, and U.S.; Niger Military Junta Ends Agreement with U.S.; As Modi Runs For a Third Term, Voting in India Will Start on April 19; Volcano Erupts Again in Iceland. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired March 17, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  Welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom".
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Now, if I don't get elected it's going to be a bloodbath.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Donald Trump's stark warning as the former president makes his first stump speech since clinching the Republican nomination.
 
Plus, Russians cast votes in the last day in the country's presidential election. We'll look at the calls for protests at polling stations in the coming hour.
 
And the U.S. is working to get Americans out of Haiti in the midst of an unstable situation. What CNN crews on the ground seeing as gang violence erupts in the capital city.
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from Atlanta, this is "CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber."
 
BRUNHUBER:  We begin this hour focused on the presidential race here in the U.S. And Former President Donald Trump out on the campaign trail. While Trump was in Ohio on Saturday, two days before the state's primary and a few days after securing enough delegates to clinch the Republican Party's presidential nomination, Trump promised to protect the U.S. auto industry and made a shocking comment about the consequences if he loses in November.
 
CNN's Alayne Treene has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  Well former president Donald Trump gave his first formal speech here in Ohio after he secured enough delegates earlier in the week to effectively declare him the Republican presidential nominee.
 
But look, Donald Trump's visit to Ohio was not necessarily to boost his own candidacy. Both Donald Trump and his team believe that he will do very well in this state in November. Instead, he was here to boost his endorsed candidate for the Ohio Senate primary, and that's businessman Bernie Moreno. Moreno was locked in a messy, contested three-way primary, and Donald Trump really came to the state in the hopes of giving him that last-minute boost and more support ahead of that race on Tuesday.
 
But even though Donald Trump was here to talk about the Ohio Senate primary, much of his speech focused on the general election. He attacked Joe Biden and blamed him for what he argued were the many charges that he is facing. And he also offered a new line that I have yet to hear yet on the campaign trail, and that is essentially that he argued if he were to not win reelection in November that there would be a bloodbath in this country. Take a listen to how we put it.
 
TRUMP:  We're going to put a 100 percent tariff on every single car that comes across the line. And you're not going to be able to sell those cars, if I get elected. Now, if I don't get elected, it's going to be a bloodbath for the whole -- that's going to be the least of it. It's going to be a bloodbath for the country. That will be the least of it.
 
TREENE:  Now, those comments came as Donald Trump, once again, argued that he wanted to free those imprisoned for their role on January 6th. He referred to those convicted as hostages, a more favorable term that we've heard him use time and again on the campaign trail. And he argued that it was a day one priority for him if he were to reclaim the White House in November.
 
Alayna Treene, CNN, Vandalia, Ohio.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Now, the Trump campaign later sought to clarify his comments, saying he was specifically talking about an economic bloodbath for the auto industry and auto workers when he said there would be a bloodbath if he loses. But President Biden's campaign was already slamming the comment.
 
In a statement, Biden's campaign spokesperson said, "Trump wants another January 6th, but the American people are going to give him another electoral defeat this November because they continue to reject his extremism, his affection for violence, and his thirst for revenge."
 
Meanwhile, Donald Trump's legal troubles could keep him busy in the coming weeks as judges in Atlanta and New York have jumbled the former president's legal calendar. The Manhattan judge overseeing his criminal hush money case has agreed to delay the start of the trial until next month. It had been scheduled to begin on March 25th. The clock will also soon begin taking for a potential appeal to be filed in Georgia over the judge's ruling to allow Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis to continue overseeing Trump's election interference case. Now, that deadline is also March 25th.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden has been on a tour of key swing states after clinching the Democratic Party's presidential nomination. Advisors say his first priority is to excite Democrats and ease any concerns about his decision to run. His campaign is planning to dramatically scale up its presence in battleground states this month, and that includes stops in Nevada and Arizona planned for the coming days.
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
Russia is holding the third and final day of voting in a presidential election. No one doubts will give Vladimir Putin another six years in office. Earlier this morning, officials said the turnout has already crossed the 60 percent mark. But as voters cast their ballots, the Kremlin is going after those who staged small acts of protest at the polls and keeping an eye on more pushback that could happen in the coming hours.
 
The widow of opposition leader Alexei Navalny urged voters to come to the polls Sunday and send a clear message to Putin. While prosecutors have opened 15 cases against suspects who have reportedly already tried to set fire to polling stations or pour dye in ballot boxes.
 
Matthew Chance has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, after a second day of voting in this Russian presidential election, officials say turnout is already over 50 percent and there's still another day of voting left. The high turnout, of course, is key for the Kremlin, which wants to claim that Vladimir Putin, who's certain to win, has a strong public mandate for a fifth presidential term.
 
Amid the tightening of Kremlin control, no significant opposition candidates have been permitted to stand. But a spate of disruptive incidents at polling stations across the country point to the degree of frustration with the election process.
 
Election officials say more than 29 polling stations across 20 regions of Russia have been affected, mainly by individuals pouring green dye, ink, paint or paint into ballot boxes to spoil votes that have already been cast. There's also been a number of arson attacks at voting centers with election officials saying that at least 214 ballot boxes have so far been ruined.
 
Well, the attention on a final day of voting will focus on protest calls from the widow of the late Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, who's been telling supporters to gather at polling stations at midday, local time in their Russian regions, and to spoil their votes, or to vote for other candidates other than Vladimir Putin. It's not yet clear what that protest will look like, but the Russian authorities have issued a stern warning that anyone engaged in unauthorized election protests will be dealt with severely by the law.
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, Moscow.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Let's go now to London where Clare Sebastian is standing by. So, Clare, these acts of protest, characterized by the Kremlin as acts of traitors and scum. Take us through what we're seeing and how it's challenging the narrative that Putin wants to create.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Kim, I think this is a reflection of what we saw in the lead up to this election with supporters turning out for an anti-war candidate who was then barred from being on the ballot with the support that we saw after the death of Alexei Navalny, the turnout for his funeral.
 
This underlying frustration and feeling of dissatisfaction with the Kremlin and with the war in particular in Russia which is coming to the fore despite the intense amount of repression, unprecedented in the post-Soviet times. This very tough legal system which cracks down on any sign of dissent. I think, it is significant to see this affecting these elections.
 
We understand now some 29 polling stations have been affected, more than 200 ballot boxes, obviously, not a majority in a country of 140 million people and 11 time zones but it is not something you tend to see in Russian elections and therefore significant.
 
As for whether it moves the needle, very unlikely, and certainly it's not something that Russian state TV is focused on. They are very heavily focused on turnout, which is, of course, in an election with no obvious opposition candidate the key metric for the Kremlin is it seeks to prove that it has a renewed mandate for a fifth term of Vladimir Putin.
 
Right now, we're seeing turnout at the beginning of day three of this vote above 60 percent, the magic number will be 67.5 percent which is what Putin and the election, in general, achieved in 2018. So, I think the idea, certainly, if you speak to Russia watchers is to get more than that to show that he has overwhelming support from the people and certainly the mandate to continue with the war in Ukraine. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Ukraine -- Ukraine's reaction to what they're calling the pseudo-elections. What are they saying?
 
SEBASTIAN:  So, Russia is holding elections in what it calls its new territories what Russia -- what Ukraine calls the temporary occupied territories which is of course Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia, and Kherson, separately of course it's happening in Crimea as well. And Ukraine is urging its people not to participate. Saying that it is illegal under Ukrainian law.
 
Look, this is how Russia tends to consolidate its power in regions it occupies. We have Crimea as a very clear template of this. It brings in its institutions. We've seen even a video showing a mobile polling station in Avdiivka, which has only been in Russian hands for several weeks, to try to make this sort of temporary occupation appear and feel permanent to the people there.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
So, Ukraine pushing back very strongly against this. Saying that any participation or collaboration as it sees any Ukrainian citizen seem to be helping this process will face consequences. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Thanks so much, Clare Sebastian. Appreciate it.
 
Ukraine's Air Force says it shot down 14 Russian drones over Odessa overnight. We'll bring you more on that when we have details. Now, this comes days after Russia's deadliest attack on Odessa since the war began. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says, "There will definitely be military responses to Russia after 21 people were killed in the southern port city on Friday.
 
Meanwhile, Moscow if accusing Ukraine of escalating strikes inside Russian territory. Russia's defense ministry says, Ukraine launched 36 drones overnight, aimed at various parts of the country. The governor of the southern region of Belgorod says, two people were killed by attacks on Saturday, including a truck driver whose vehicle was hit by a shell. Ukraine's spy chief says, it's actually a domestic problem for Putin to solve. Saying, Russian sabotage groups are carrying out attacks as well.
 
All right. Turning now to the U.S. state of New Jersey which saw and hours-long armed standoff Saturday with a suspect in a triple homicide case. 26-year-old Andre Gordon was apprehended not far from a home that authorities thought he was barricaded inside.
 
He's alleged to have killed three women Saturday morning in Pennsylvania, just north of Philadelphia. Police claim he killed his stepmother and sister before driving to another home where he shot and killed the mother of his two children. Authorities say he then carjacked a vehicle and fled.
 
Haiti is facing a growing humanitarian crisis as gang violence ramps up. And now, UNICEF says it's dealing with looting in the capital's port, we'll have the latest just ahead.
 
Plus, thousands of protesters gathered near Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's home to demand new elections. We'll have more on that in the new rounds of ceasefire talks. Just ahead, please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Millions of people in Haiti are facing a humanitarian crisis as many struggle to find food and supplies while armed gangs sweep the country. UNICEF says, one of its containers carrying supplies for maternal and neonatal care was looted on Saturday in Port-au-Prince. Adding that gang members now control more than 260 humanitarian-owned containers at the port.
 
Meanwhile, police say several bandits were killed during an operation in Port-au-Prince on Friday. Police seized firearms and unblocked roads in the lower Delmas neighborhood. Authorities say, they're hoping to take back some areas held by armed gangs.
 
CNN's David Culver is on the ground in Haiti's capital, and he explains how people are trying to stay safe as gangs expand their control.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Neighbors protecting neighbors, that's essentially what this has become here in Port-au-Prince just to survive. And this is one community that we're in that feels rather safe. And that's just because several blocks out, you've got perimeter after perimeter that is set up by the community and works with the police.
 
So, the police essentially allow the community to do what they need to do to set up these blocks at entries and exits. And the community, in turn, helps empower the police so that they can then do their patrols. But for many of them, it's about setting these up to block what is not far from here, and that is an expanding gang territory. One that has been trying to encroach on this community, in particular, many times over the past year or so.
 
And it got to a point where community members, according to one police commander, had to take justice into their own hands. And they were able to take into custody 14 suspected gang members. They then executed those gang members right in the middle of the street. It was a very public display, but for them it was to send a message to other gang members to keep out of their community.
 
It hasn't stopped the gangs from trying to push further and further in, but for the folks who live here, they say everyday life has gotten increasingly difficult. We see a few street vendors, but not many. When we were here three weeks ago, many of the sidewalks were filled with street vendors. Folks now simply don't have things to sell.
 
And so, they've resorted to trying to secure, as best as possible, using the police's help, some of the supply lines trying to bring water and food into areas like this. I asked some of the community members how is it that they were able to stay afloat? And he said, we rely on each other. Essentially, they will have some of these community members go door to door, collecting food, maybe some money, some water. And then that provides some substance for the folks who are securing these communities.
 
If you ask who's in charge, they look around and they say no one. That's why they've taken matters into their own hands. If you ask, what do you need? What can help Haiti in this moment? The first thing that most folks have told us is for the International Community to not intervene in the way they have in the past. Instead, they want help in the form of aid, but they also say that they need some sort of security backup.
 
What that looks like, they didn't really articulate. Folks really didn't want to go into too much detail in trying to explain what that added security might come in the form of. But for most here, it's just about trying to figure out how to get to tomorrow, and knowing that tonight could bring another round of violence.
 
David Culver, CNN, Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The U.S. embassy in Haiti is trying to fly American citizens back home, warning that the security situation is unpredictable and dangerous. The airport in Port-au-Prince is still closed, making evacuations even more difficult. The embassy says, Americans will have to get to the airport in Cap-Haitien at their own risk.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
All right. Joining us now is Allen Speer, CEO of Agape Flights. And he says, their humanitarian operation in Haiti has officially shut down. Thank you so much for being here with us. So, for years, your organization has been flying in supplies to Haiti, but now you can no longer get your supplies in. So, explain why not.
 
ALLEN SPEER, CEO, AGAPE FLIGHTS:  Well, because of operational control over the Port-au-Prince International Airport. I have received word as of late yesterday that many of the other airports will open. So, we will resume our flights as soon as it is feasible and as soon as it is safe enough for our mission partners on the ground to come to the airport in other locations. We serve about six locations in Haiti. So, we -- we're hoping that very, very soon we'll be able to fly these much-needed supplies into our mission partners.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, and just to be clear -- I mean, is it that the gangs control the airport or is it just generally too dangerous right in the capital to fly?
 
SPEER:  Well, I think the reason they shut down the airport and all the airports, I was speaking with one of the directors, generally, yesterday was because of the operational control of the Port-au-Prince International Airport and the whole city of Port-au-Prince.
 
Port-au-Prince has, you know, almost 2 million people and 11 million in the whole country. But Port-au-Prince is the hub, so to speak, of Haiti. And this has been going on, you know, several years, but especially since the assassination of the president. BRUNHUBER:  Yes. You've been helping Haiti for years. You've seen earthquakes and unrest. I mean, are things as bad as you've ever seen them?
 
SPEER:  Absolutely. In fact, yesterday, I was speaking with a missionary that has been in Port-au-Prince and has been all over Haiti for the last 45 years, and he said by far this was the worst he had ever seen it.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Wow. And do you expect things -- 
 
SPEER:  I would agree with him.
 
BRUNHUBER:  -- to get even worse?
 
SPEER:  I do. In listening to -- prior to coming on with you this morning, you know, Haitians -- really, the Haitian people, all they want is what -- I think, all people want and one of the most powerful words in the English language but around the globe is that word hope, and that's what they're asking for. So, they're asking for some security and safety so that they don't have to arm themselves.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, and not just hope concretely. I mean, we got a snapshot of the need from our reporter on the ground there. Take me through exactly why the supplies are so desperately needed right now.
 
SPEER:  Well, because for the last several years, you know, this gang violence has continued to escalate around Port-au-Prince, but even all around the country. I mean, we were -- we, ourselves, victims to it two years ago, almost on this day when we had a plane abducted and burnt to the ground.
 
I was on the ground with a team of seven putting a roof on a church. And protesters, protesting gang violence, they said, abducted our plane and burned it to the ground. But -- 
 
BRUNHUBER:  And we're seeing -- we just so, you know, we're seeing pictures of that right now. We're showing them, you know, sort of hopping on top of the plane and, sort of, you know, taking control of it as you describe. I mean, it must have been -- just been absolutely terrifying.
 
SPEER:  Well, it was -- we didn't know what was going on. We were back in our -- we were doing our work about 20 minutes away and we got a call from the home office saying this is going on. But I would just tell you, though, that what was meant for evil, God turned for good because they, you know, it gave us opportunities to not only share what we have done for 43 years, and that is to be a lifeline for missionaries and to share the unconditional love of Christ.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes. Let me ask you, I mean, the problem is, right now, not just getting the supplies in, but even when supplies get there, as we've seen from the recent looting of a U.N. container, there's no guarantee that the supply -- the supplies will actually get where they need to go. SPEER:  That is correct. That's why it is vital for us because we fly our own aircraft in. We hand off these supplies directly to our mission partners. There's no -- but, you know, getting mission partners to, especially the airport in Port-au-Prince is impossible at this port -- point in time and probably will be for some time, again, because of the operational control of the airport and of the city.
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
So, we really -- we would suggest there be some sort of international force, if not a U.S. force go in to regain control, operational control of both the airport and the city.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, there's been a lot of back and forth about that possible international security force coming in. In the meantime, for the Haitians themselves, you spent a lot of time there. You know, folks, I mean, most there are used to a certain level of instability. But what are they telling you about how they're coping with the situation that's unfolding right now?
 
SPEER:  Well, a lot of people have and are trying to, especially in Port-au-Prince, trying to get out because of the chaos. And really, honestly, it's been in chaos. It's anarchy now. And so -- but many of our folks have said we're staying. We were called here. We believe that we need to be here to be a part of the solution rather than just leaving it. But it is extremely difficult. I was on the phone for several moments late, late last night, encouraging and talking to people who are planning on staying and some of them in dire circumstances.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, listen, you were saying your flights may resume soon, that is good news. We wish you the best and safety as well as you try and help the people who are so desperately in need there. Allen Speer, thank you so much for speaking with us. Really appreciate it.
 
SPEER:  Thank you. It was good to be with you.
 
BRUNHUBER:  The U.N. says the first flights of an air bridge between Haiti and the Dominican Republic have been completed. The organization announced on Wednesday it was establishing the air bridge to facilitate the movement of U.N. workers and humanitarian aid. The first flight is on Saturday, carried medical supplies and workers rotating in and out of the country.
 
All right. Ahead of new Israel-Hamas ceasefire talks, demonstrators in Israel call for the government to make a deal with Hamas to get the hostages home. We'll have more on the protests and plans for the talks next on "CNN Newsroom". Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom".
 
Protesters in Israel clashed with police while calling for new elections.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CROWD:  (Speaking in a foreign language).
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Police made several arrests in the town of Caesarea, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has a private residence. Thousands rallied in the town, angry about the government's handling of the hostage situation in Gaza.
 
In Tel Aviv, thousands more protested Netanyahu's government. Protesters called for the government to make a deal with Hamas to get the hostages home. In Jerusalem, some protesters played music in the streets as they demanded more to be done to free the hostages.
 
Journalist Elliott Gotkine is live in London with more on all of this. So, Elliott, to start, the ceasefire talks are expected to resume on Monday. Where do things stand and what are we expecting?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN JOURNALIST:  That's right, Kim. They're due to resume in Doha, in Qatar again on Monday. This will be along with the Qatari Prime Minister, the head of Egyptian intelligence, presumably the head of Israeli foreign intelligence, the Mossad, David Barnea, and U.S. officials, no doubt, will be involved as well. Of course, the Egyptians and the Qataris, the key mediators here, the key go-betweens between Israel and Hamas who don't speak to one another directly.
 
Now, we did get a -- kind of, proposal, a counter-proposal from Hamas last week. This was suggesting, we understand, that something like 40 Israeli prisoners, all female prisoners, the elderly, the sick and the wounded would be freed, would be released. They have been in captivity since they were abducted on October 7th, in exchange for up to 1,000 Palestinian prisoners. That is what the Hamas proposal entails in the first phase of what would be a multi-phased agreement.
 
The second phase would see all of the remaining Israeli hostages freed in exchange for all Palestinian prisoners. And in between though, Hamas is demanding that Israel agree to a complete end to the war and also to withdraw from the Gaza Strip. Now, that seemed to be a non- starter, and presumably is what Prime Minister Netanyahu was alluding to when he said that Hamas' demands were still, in his words, absurd.
 
Nevertheless, the war cabinet in Israel is due to meet at 10:00 a.m. eastern time, 6:00 p.m. local time today, and 90 minutes later the full cabinet is due to meet to decide on their position that they will take in those negotiations which is, as you say, are due to resume on Monday. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Elliott Gotkine live in London. Thank you so much. Now, the U.S. isn't sending a team to the next round of ceasefire talks, but White House officials say they already see positive signs ahead of the negotiations. CNN's Kevin Liptak has more from Washington.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  White House officials say, they are cautiously optimistic about the direction of these hostage talks and certainly they have looked at the proposals that are on the table, and do believe that eventually a deal could be reached. But remember the White House had once been hopeful for a hostage deal by the start of Ramadan, and of course that deadline came and went without a deal. And certainly, officials here are very realistic that there do remain a number of sticky issues for these two sides to resolve before a deal is eventually reached, that would include a temporary ceasefire.
 
Of course, this is all happening as this deepening rift emerges between this White House and the government of Israel led by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. You saw that play out last week with this address that the Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer delivered, calling for new elections in Israel that would eventually result in the ouster of Netanyahu. When President Biden was asked about that speech, he did not endorse specifically that call for new elections but he also didn't condemn it. Listen to what he said.
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  He made a good speech and I think he expressed a serious concern, shared not only by him but by many Americans.
 
LIPTAK:  Now, we are told that Schumer did inform senior officials at the White House that he was preparing to deliver that speech and he didn't receive any concerns about the diplomatic fallout or the political fallout. And it does give you an indication of just how much this relationship has frayed between President Biden and Netanyahu.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Really, at the onset of this war, they talked on the phone on a daily, weekly basis. Now, it has been more than a month since the two men have spoken. And you do hear mounting levels of frustration at the White House over what is viewed as Netanyahu's rejection of certain recommendations. Whether it's the how this war is being fought in Gaza. Whether it's the importance of getting humanitarian aid into the enclave, or about the future of a Palestinian state. All of these issues that American officials think that Netanyahu has, sort of, rejected their opinions on.
 
And so, this could devolve even further as Israel continues to discuss a major operation in Rafah. White House officials have said that that type of operation should not proceed without a credible plan to protect the millions of Palestinian civilians who are sheltering there.
 
As of Friday, the White House says they haven't seen such a plan. And certainly, you can expect that White House officials would be preparing for a response should that operation go forward. And certainly, they will be discussing those in the days ahead. But you do see a relationship very much fraying as this war proceeds.
 
Kevin Liptak, CNN, the White House.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The World Health Organization says it's gravely concerned about Israel's plan for a ground offensive in Rafah. The leader says it would, "Lead to many more deaths, especially with health facilities already overwhelmed. Gaza's Ministry of Health says, Israeli military operations killed at least 63 people over the past 24 hours. Gaza officials say, the death toll from the war is now more than 31,000. CNN can't independently verify the numbers from Gaza.
 
And Germany is the latest country to deliver aid to Gaza by airdrop. The German Air Force says, it dropped four tons of humanitarian aid on Saturday. The United States and Jordan also conducted aid drops on Saturday.
 
Niger is ending its strategic military alliance with the U.S. We'll look at why the country's ruling junta is kicking out U.S. forces and contractors, that's just ahead. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  In Venezuela, President Nicolas Maduro confirmed that he'll seek a third term in office in the upcoming presidential election. He accepted his ruling party's official nomination on Saturday. Now, it's not clear who Maduro will face in July. His main rival, Maria Corina Machado, has been barred from running over corruption allegations, which she denies. The country has descended into economic collapse since Maduro took power in 2013.
 
The world's largest democracy, India, is also gearing up for a general election this year. The country's election commission announced on Saturday that voting will begin on April 19th and will end on June 1st. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seeking a third term in office. He'll be challenged by an alliance of some two dozen opposition parties. Modi's ruling Hindu Nationalist Party is expected to secure another five years in power.
 
Niger's ruling junta says, it is breaking off its military agreement with the U.S. Now, this comes following a three -day visit by a U.S. delegation. The agreement allowed military personnel and civilian staff from the Department of Defense to operate in Niger, but on Saturday, a military spokesman denounced the accord as unfair.
 
So, for more on this, I'm joined by CNN International Correspondent Larry Madowo. Larry, take us through what led to this and what it means.
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  This has been coming for a while, Kim, because since the July 2023 coup, relations between the U.S. and Niger have been really, really difficult. And this past week, a high-powered delegation of diplomatic and military leaders from the U.S. were in Niger, trying to avoid this outcome. It was led by Molly Phee, she's the U.S. Assistant Secretary for African Affairs, and General Michael Langley, who commands the U.S.-Africa command.
 
They spent three days there. They didn't meet with General Abdourahmane Tchiani, the self-declared leader of Niger, the military ruler. But they did meet with his appointed prime minister. And the Nigerians are now saying they did that out of courtesy, because the Americans did not follow their proper diplomatic protocol. They didn't say, when they were coming, who was in the delegation, and what was the purpose of the trip.
 
But just after they left, this drastic decision to end that military cooperation that had about 648 U.S. troops still remaining in the countries of December, and an unknown number of civilian personnel supporting these bases in the U.S. -- in Niger. Here's the explanation for this -- they did this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLONEL AMADOU ABDRAMANE, NIGER MILITARY SPOKESPERSON (through translator):  The American presence in the territory of the Republic of Niger is illegal and violates all constitutional and democratic rules, which would make the people sovereign.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO:  Niger's military junta also condemned what they see as American condensing attitude and the threat of reprisals for choosing which partners they want to work with. The U.S. delegation, they claim, had talked about a secret uranium deal with Iran and some kind of military cooperation with Russia, that they didn't appreciate that criticism, and they said they are a sovereign nation. They can choose who they want to work with.
 
So, this complicates the U.S. operation not just in Niger, but in the wider Sahel region. There are two U.S. bases in Niger, including one in central Niger, which was built at a cost of about $100 million. It's a drone base that's been carrying out major operations in this wider region.
 
There are major insurgencies occurring around this -- these countries, especially Mali, Burkina Faso, and Niger. Insurgencies from armed groups affiliated to Islamic State and Al-Qaeda. And many Western nations used Niger as a linchpin for the counterterrorism operations here, and all that now has been thrown in doubt, especially considering that the Nigerians also kicked out the French military and they finished withdrawing in December. There is just a small amount of German and Italian troops that are left in the country, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, important ramifications there. Larry Madowo live in Lagos, Nigeria. Thanks so much.
 
All right. Still ahead, dramatic images coming out of Iceland. The latest on the volcano that keeps on erupting, that's next. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, it's what officials in Iceland had warned would happen. Have a look here, this volcano near Reykjavik is erupting for the fourth time since December, spewing smoke and hot orange lava out of the ground. Authorities had warned for weeks that this latest eruption was imminent. Nearby communities had already been evacuated and police declared a state of emergency in the area. No flight disruptions have been reported.
 
All right. Joining me now is Vidir Reynisson. He is the Director General of Civil Protection and Emergency Management in Iceland. Thank you so much for being here with us. So, this seems to be an enormously powerful eruption. First of all, what can you tell us about it?
 
VIDIR REYNISSON, DIRECTOR GENERAL, CIVIL PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT IN ICELAND:  Well, this one is the biggest one of those four that we have already this winter. So, the lava is now going to two main directions, one is going close to our power plant, but we have two barriers in that area so there's nothing at risk at that area. And then the second part is going south, going close to the village of Grindavik, but also the barriers that we built there is diverting the lava away.
 
So, we are in a safe zone at the moment, but the roads and all the infrastructures could be in risk if this keeps going on for maybe six, eight hours more. We have seen previously that after 12 hours, it decreases a lot. So, we are just waiting to see how things will develop for the next hours.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, I mean, we're seeing the pictures now. They look so dramatic, and the lava, obviously, so powerful. Talk to me about those barriers that you've erected. What exactly are they and do you actually expect them to hold or are they just, kind of, to slow the lava?
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
REYNISSON:  Well, the main focus is to try -- to divert the lava from critical infrastructure. And as for now, they have been doing their job. We have lava going on site of them, both in the northern part and the southern part. So, all the barrier is working quite well. The barriers are made of huge rocks and of old lava that we have lifted up in the area. So, they are -- they're kind of just made of rocks and knots (ph).
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. So, the people -- I mean, you've been evacuating people, is everybody out? Are there still, sort of, you know, people in harm's way?
 
REYNISSON:  Nobody is in harm's way. The only people that are in the area now is the first responders that is coordinating and monitoring the operations if we need to do something to protect more of the critical infrastructure, and there are contractors there. But all the people, all tourists and everybody has been evacuated. So, there is no one in danger.
 
BRUNHUBER:  OK. So, you're trying to divert the lava. If the lava ends up contacting the seawater, I understand that could create some dangerous gases and explosions as well. Take us through that.
 
REYNISSON:  Yes, it's about 1,000 meters from the sea, from the shore. So, if it goes on, it will end up in the sea. And that means that we have explosions and gas coming from that area, but that will be very localized. There is no risk of any ash cloud or gas going any -- in a far distance from the area. So, we're just talking about a few kilometers that would be closed even more down because of this risk, but that's not going to change much in the scenario that we're looking at because we have already evacuated everybody from this area.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes. The people that you've evacuated, I mean, people have already gone through several evacuations already. I mean, is it getting harder to convince people to leave? I mean, there must be a lot of fatigue there.
 
REYNISSON:  Yes, of course, people have been going in and out for months now. And now the government has given out some new measures to help people to stay longer. Now, the state is buying up houses in the area so people can start to get their homes in other areas in Iceland. So, that's a big change. Of course, people are really, really tired of this. But now I think this measure from the government changes the game a little bit.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, that's interesting because, you know, a lot of the people who have evacuated, they haven't come back. There must be a sense that this is just going to keep going and going, and the community won't be safe for the foreseeable future, is that right?
 
REYNISSON:  It could be. One of the scenarios that we're looking at now, this could take years. So, we are looking at least two years ahead now, and all our measures in getting people permanent housing and that is all aimed for at least two years. But then this is nature, this is volcanoes, we never know exactly what will happen. We can just have an educated guess on it and that's how we're working on it. We're measuring things. We are protecting how things will develop, but there's nothing sure about it. But at least we are working on that, that people can be in a permanent home for some years.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes. Well, listen, let's hope the best-case scenario manifests itself and it stays away from the critical infrastructure that you're trying to protect. Thank you so much for your time, Vidir Reynisson. Thank you so much.
 
A fire has destroyed a historic film studio in Egypt. State media reports, flames erupted at the 80-year-old Al Ahram Studio in Cairo after filming wrapped on a Ramadan TV series. All buildings at the site are reportedly affected. With three stages, screening rooms and editing suites, the studio has considered the cornerstone of the film industry in Egypt, dubbed "Hollywood on the Nile". Several people were hurt, but there have been no reports of deaths. Prosecutors are investigating.
 
More than 12 million people are under the threat of severe weather right now. The storm system that brought deadly tornadoes to the central U.S. earlier this week is making its way through the U.S. Gulf Coast and southeast. The main threats are large hail, damaging winds and possibly isolated tornadoes. Meanwhile, Sunday's excessive rainfall threats stretch from the Gulf Coast from Texas to the western Florida Panhandle.
 
Baseball superstar Shohei Ohtani is just days away from making his debut with the L.A. Dodgers. Showtime, as he's known, arrived in Seoul, South Korea on Friday to international fanfare.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
Japanese star Ohtani and the Dodgers will play the San Diego Padres on Wednesday and Thursday in Seoul. The two-game series is the official start of the 2024 Major League Baseball season.
 
And the luck of the Irish is being felt in Dublin, the St. Patrick's Day weekend. Have a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, there you have it. Defending champions Ireland eked a victory against Scotland to win back-to-back Six Nations titles, making it their sixth title overall in the event. Ireland captain Peter O'Mahony picked up his fifth Six Nations win as first as captain.
 
All right. Well, you have to see this. This is possibly the video of the week. A teenager trying to catch some air at a skiing competition wound up almost catching a ski chairlift. CNN's Jeanne Moos shows you his spectacular wipeout that has the internet buzzing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It was a little like one of those James Bond ski chases, like when "007" skied over a picnic table. Only 17-year-old Ivan Jones was just trying to do a move called the flat spin 360 when he almost landed on the chairlift. Of course, everyone wanted to know -- 
 
MOOS:  Were you injured?
 
IVAN JONES, 17-YEAR-OLD SKIER:  I definitely felt very beat up. Mild concussion. I was quite sore.
 
MOOS (voice-over):  But Ivan was able to ski down the mountain at the Lake Louise resort in Canada to get checked out by the ski patrol. So close to landing on the actual seat, maybe next time was a typical comment. But Ivan said he had no intention of trying that. He thought it would be impossible to hit the chairlift until he did.
 
JONES:  When I hit the chairlift, I was actually in shock. So, I didn't feel anything.
 
MOOS (voice-over):  His mom, Mindy (ph), was off skiing when she got the call that her son had hit the chairlift
 
MINDY (PH), IVAN JONES'S MOTHER:  Was very grateful to see him in person before seeing the video, because the video is pretty awful.
 
MOOS (voice-over):  As the video went viral, jokesters added audio.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He's dreamed about this his whole life. Oh -- that is not good.
 
MOOS (voice-over):  Lake Louise Resort told CNN, it does not condone what happened. Imagine the view from the chair full of skiers coming up the lift. And instead of just wondering how Ivan fared -- 
 
MOOS:  I like, is the chairlift OK?
 
MOOS (voice-over):  You'd be giggling too if you survive this.
 
Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Thanks for watching. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:00]