Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Police: One Dead, 20 Plus Shot At Super Bowl Celebration; NATO Defense Ministers Discuss Defense And Ukraine; U.S. Officials: Russian Nuclear Anti-Satellite System In Space Is Concerning, Does Not Pose Immediate Threat; International Opposition Grows To Potential Rafah Ground Operation. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired February 15, 2024 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:35]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody started running, there was screaming. We didn't know what was happening but this day and age when people run, you run.
 
CHIEF STACEY GRAVES, KANSAS CITY POLICE: I'm angry at what happened today. The people who came to this celebration should expect a safe environment. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Parades, rallies, schools, movies, it seems like almost nothing is safe.
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE U.S., 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If they're not going to pay, we're not going to protect, OK?
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, SECRETARY GENERAL, NATO: This is not charity. This is an investment in our own security. Today it is Ukraine, tomorrow it can be Taiwan.
 
LEWIS HAMILTON, BRITISH RACING DRIVER IN FORMULA ONE: It's obviously been emotional. It's very surreal to be here. 
 
TOTO WOLFF, TEAM PRINCIPAL, MERCEDES: It's going to be our last season with Lewis, so we are keen in bringing a really quick car.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo.
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and the United States. I'm Bianca Nobilo. Max has the day off. 
 
It's Thursday, February 15th. 9:00 am here in London, 3:00 am in Kansas City, Missouri, a city reeling from a deadly mass shooting on what should have been one of its happiest days.
 
Police say one person is dead, 21 others were shot and injured when someone opened fire on a celebration for the Super Bowl champions Kansas City Chiefs. Radio station KKFI identified the person killed as Lisa Lopez-Galvan who worked as a D.J. and a programmer at the station. 
 
An estimated one million people were attending that celebration. More than 800 law enforcement officers were on duty. Police have detained three people for questioning and the FBI has set up a website asking people for video of what happened and tips. 
 
Bystanders say they saw one person opened fire and then moved in to tackle him. Here's how they described what happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TONY, WITNESS: What's happened there is just trying to stay in somewhat distance of him. And that way I could -- if I could see a cop and help him identify that was the guy. And then just -- there wasn't any, you know, police officer at the moment at that time, so, you know, I'm just trying to yell to anybody that can hear me and people are scrambling and not knowing what's going on. And I just felt like that was the best situation that -- that was the best thing I could do in that situation was just let people know, this is the guy, help me out.
 
PAUL CONTRERAS, WITNESS: He got close to me. I got the right angle on him and I hit him from behind. And when I hit him from behind, I either jarred the gun out of his hand or out of his sleeve.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: U.S. President Joe Biden urged Congress to pass tougher gun control laws, saying the shooting should move us, shock us, shame us into acting. How many more families need to be torn apart?
 
More now from CNN's Nick Watt.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: (voice-over): This should have been a celebration in honor of the Chiefs back-to-back Super Bowl champion. Instead, yet another mass shooting in America, one dead and at least 21 injured by gunfire, just west of Union Station in Kansas City as the rally wrapped up.
 
Unclear how many were actually shot. There was panic. Fire department personnel giving life-sustaining treatment on the streets.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody started running. There were screaming. We didn't know what was happening, but this day and age, when people run, you run.
 
WATT (voice-over): Three people were detained, according to police. They're now under investigation. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We did see two police officers with someone away in handcuffs, you know.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He was in a red jump -- like a red jumpsuit.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
GRAVES: I'm angry at what happened today. The people who came to this celebration should expect a safe environment. We had over 800 law enforcement officers, Kansas City and other agencies at the location to keep everyone safe.
 
WATT (voice-over): The people were not safe and hundreds of thousands were on the streets. Kansas City schools had closed for the day.
 
ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: But an event like this is almost impossible to completely secure. It is a massive open space. Tickets are not required. There are no gates and you know, admission areas. So, combine that with the fact that Missouri is a state that does not control the carrying of firearms.
 
Essentially, anyone can carry a firearm. You have a huge crowd and likely, a large significant portion of that population carrying firearms. So, any conflict or dispute can easily turn into a shooting.
 <br>[04:05:35]
 
WATT (voice-over): Still unclear if the parade was actually targeted, the Chiefs say all their players and staff are safe, as are the governors of Missouri and Kansas who are both at the celebration.
 
Chiefs star quarterback Patrick Mahomes posted on X: Praying for Kansas City.
 
MAYOR QUINTON LUCAS (KANSAS CITY, MO): This is absolutely a tragedy. The likes of which we would have never expected in Kansas City and the likes of which we will remember for some time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WATT (on camera): Now, the police chief who you just heard from was out on the street. She heard the gunfire and described her officers and others running, weapons drawn towards the danger. 
 
This is clearly a very active investigation still and the police are appealing to the public for help. They also want to narrow down to make sure that there was nobody else involved in the shooting who is not already in custody. 
 
Nick Watt, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
NOBILO: The Kansas City Chiefs issued a statement expressing their stark sadness at the senseless act of violence at the parade and rally. They say their hearts go out to the victims, their families and the entire city. It also says, all Chiefs players and coaches are safe and accounted for. One of the Chiefs players asked: "When are we going to fix these gun
 
 laws? How many more people have to die to say enough is enough? It's too easy for the wrong people to obtain guns in America."
 
CNN spoke with the former assistant director of the FBI's Criminal Investigative Division, he explained some of the factors that could have contributed to the shooting and the subsequent chaos.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS SWECKER, FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: Kansas City downtown, amongst a million people, mingled in there are probably some pretty bad people, perhaps some gang members. And it sounds like this might have been a dispute. And every single shot that was fired because of the density of the crowd hit somebody and that's why we may have those casualties.
 
This was an impromptu type event, which is the highest risk type event. It's open, it's wide open. So, I'm -- you know, it's good that they had 800 officers out there, but that wasn't enough. I mean, I'm not saying that it wouldn't happen if there were, you know, a cop every five feet. I think the type of people that do this have no respect for law enforcement and it would happen anyway. It's just -- you know, it's a difficult event to plan for. 
 
And afterwards, I think a lot of information goes flying into different directions and it doesn't go into the one place if you had a pre-established command post, for example, an intelligence analyst sitting there waiting to grab the information. The fog of war and chaos does rein in this type of situation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: The U.S. has now seen 49 mass shootings already this year. That's according to the Gun Violence Archive which defines a mass shooting as one in which at least four people are shot and either injured or killed in a single event.
 
Donald Trump is doubling down on his threat to abandon NATO allies who are not meeting defense spending guidelines. Over the weekend, the former U.S. president said he'd encourage Russia to attack them if they didn't meet their spending targets, triggering international outrage. And Trump put out more false statements on Wednesday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: We got our allies to pay their fair share and bringing in over $400 billion to NATO. They weren't paying their bills, you've been reading about it. I've been saying, look, if they're not going to pay, we're not going to protect, OK?
 
And Biden who said "Oh, this is so bad. This is so terrible that he would say that." No, if they're not paying their bills, and most of them weren't when I got there. One of the heads of the countries stood up and said, "Does that mean that if we don't pay the bills, that you're not going to protect us?" I said, "That's exactly what it means. Exactly. I'm not going to protect you." 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Fact checkers have consistently pointed out that claims about NATO Allies supposedly failing to pay bills specifically are unequivocally false. There are no bills, only defense spending guidelines that trigger no debts or legal obligations if they're not met. Although, all of the NATO members are supposed to spend two percent of their GDP on military spending in order to take part in the alliance. 
 
NATO defense ministers are gathering for a day of meetings in Brussels, Belgium today. They're discussing what the Secretary General calls historic progress on defense spending. 
 
Jens Stoltenberg says he expects 18 allies to reach the target of spending at least two percent of their GDP on defense. 
 
Defense ministers will also discuss their efforts to increase production of ammunition and their support for Ukraine.
 
Let's go live now to Brussels in CNN's Melissa Bell.
 
Melissa, to what extent given that a Republican presidency next is as likely as not a Donald Trump's remarks shaping what is being discussed at this summit and the rhetoric that you're hearing?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I think there was some very firm pushback and comments made not just by Jen Stoltenberg over the last few days, but also by other defense ministers gathering here in Brussels to meet in direct response to what they'd heard that challenged the central pledge of the NATO alliance that an attack on one member is an attack on all, as so many have pointed out, since the incendiary remarks made by the former American president last weekend. That is undercut by the very fact of suggesting that the United States might not step in to protect one of its allies. 
 <br>[04:10:33]
 
So, there's been some serious pushback. And yet, Jen Stoltenberg has been keen to point out, Bianca. And I think this is important that the increased spending that you mentioned that we'll see 18 countries reached their commitment of two percent of GDP being spent on defense spending. That is independent of the comments or indeed, the long- standing gripes that Donald Trump had made when he was president. 
 
In fact, that was 2014 that NATO allies had agreed that they would be stepping up their spending in every year for the last nine, that has risen steadily, Jen Stoltenberg has pointed out. He's also been speaking Bianca as he arrived here to the importance of ongoing support for Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STOLTENBERG: I welcome the decision by the European Union to allocate 50 billion euros to Ukraine and expect the U.S. Congress to agree a package of continued support to Ukraine because supporting Ukraine is not charity, supporting Ukraine is an investment in our own security.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BELL: Now, we've also been hearing from Lloyd Austin, the American defense secretary, not physically because he's still recovering from his health complications, but by video conference. He spoke to the Ukraine contact group and explained that he was confident that the United States will come up with that crucial funding to Kyiv. We -- they will not surrender, he told his counterparts in a video conference, and neither will we.
 
NOBILO: Melissa, you've spent a good amount of time in Ukraine, we've been hearing of strikes overnight, which of course, is a very important part of the backdrop of this meeting as you were just saying. What more can you tell us about what's happened?
 
BELL: So, a series of strikes, Bianca, from Lviv through Kyiv and all the way in the east Zaporizhzhia with four people killed overnight, and these strikes may or may not have been a direct response to what we saw only yesterday considered by the British defense secretary as he arrived earlier here as a sign that Ukraine could still win this war if there is the adequate supply -- support from allies. 
 
And of course, what I refer to is a sinking according to Kyiv of that Russian warship in the Black Sea yesterday. We don't know if the strikes were in direct retaliation. But certainly, Kyiv is claiming that as a result of the strike, it is now disabled or destroyed a third of Russia's once formidable Black Sea Fleet. 
 
And this according to Grant Shapps is an important indication that there still can be victory. Certainly, there's been a sense that this was some vindication, Bianca, of the wisdom of Kyiv slight change of strategy which has been to focus away from the very static land frontlines and on the Black Sea and using its own sea drones with remarkable effect, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Melissa Bell for us in Brussels, thank you so much. 
 
Russia has used an advanced hypersonic missile for the first time in combat. That is according to a scientific group in Ukraine which analyzed these missile fragments that you're looking at here from a Russian strike on Kyiv last week. The airstrike hit a residential building in the city, killing four people, leaving 38 others injured. 
 
The Ukrainian group says Moscow use the so-called Zircon missile, which is believed to fly eight to nine times faster than the speed of sound. Experts say the weapon can evade even the best of Western anti- meta -- missile defenses. 
 
New U.S. intelligence about Russia's abilities to deploy a new killer anti-satellite system in space had Capitol Hill buzzing on Wednesday. The uproar started when House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Turner, and that's what he called, a serious national security threat. Turner also urged the president to declassify the intelligence. But
 
 several members of Congress briefed on the matter, say the intelligence is concerning, but doesn't pose an immediate threat to the U.S. or its interests. 
 
CNN's Jim Sciutto has these details from Washington.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: So, this is what we know at this hour. It's new U.S. intelligence. It's about a new Russian military capability, specifically an anti-satellite capability with a nuclear component. 
 
So, the idea to target U.S. or partners satellites in space, including surveillance satellites, nuclear, or early warning satellites with a nuclear component, which, of course, would, you know, expand the ability to destroy those capabilities in space, considered serious enough that the U.S. shared it with its Five Eyes partners, its closest intel partners, including the U.K., Canada, et cetera.
 <br>[04:15:24]
 
I should note this as well, and I've spoken to three people who are ready in on this latest intelligence, including two lawmakers. And they told me, one, this is not a clear and present danger. This is something that Russia is experimenting with, looking into, designing. It is not currently deployed and not considered something that will soon be deployed. That's key.
 
Second of all, they've all said to me that this is highly sensitive intelligence, including the sourcing involved, so they were surprised that you have a member of Congress that was going so public with this at this time. So, that's very important.
 
As you said, it was Mike Turner who started, it was something cryptic about a new threat to the U.S. and it was reporters who dug into figure out exactly what he was talking about. 
 
But then later in the day, you saw even one of his Republican colleagues, the Speaker Mike Johnson, saying in his words, there is no cause for alarm right now.
 
So, it's serious, serious enough that they're sharing with their partners, but not one that is considered a serious threat to death.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: The Special Counsel prosecuting Donald Trump has urged the U.S. Supreme Court to reject the former U.S. president's claim that he should be given a "Novel form of absolute immunity and not face charges in the election subversion case."
 
Jack Smith said Trump's crimes strike at the heart of America's democracy. He argues the top court should not blocked a lower court ruling that found citizen Trump can be prosecuted. Smith also asked the Supreme Court to allow the elections diversion trial to begin quickly. 
 
Coming up, police says LGBTQ couples are daring to dream. We'll tell you about what is giving them hope. 
 
Also ahead, Palestinians face an impossible situation as Israel orders evacuations at the largest hospital that's still functioning in Gaza. 
 
Plus, a woman makes a chilling discovery.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:21:24]
 
NOBILO: Medecins Sans Frontieres or Doctors Without Borders has condemned Israel's order to evacuate Gaza's Nasser hospital amid heavy fighting. Crowds of civilians are fleeing the hospital in Khan Yunis which has been under siege now for weeks. 
 
Israeli military says it has opened a secure route for evacuations. But doctors and medical officials in Gaza say Israeli snipers have shot and killed at least two people trying to flee and wounded several others over the past few days. 
 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is vowing powerful action rather, despite mounting international concern over unexpected ground offensive in Gaza's south -- southern most city. Netanyahu says action in Rafah would come after Israel's military allows the civilian population to leave the battle zones. 
 
More than one million displaced Palestinians are sheltering them, and it's not clear where the civilians can go to find safety. 
 
Meantime, Arab nations at the U.N. say they're preparing to introduce a resolution at the Security Council calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIYAD MANSOUR, PALESTINIAN U.N. ENVOY: From our perspective, we believe that the Security Council should shoulder its responsibility and act immediately. And stop it in the fighting, saving Rafah from this looming catastrophe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: CNN's Paula Hancocks is following all of these developments and joins me now from Abu Dhabi. Paula, tell us more about what we're hearing from the international community around this sense of an impending ground invasion by the Israeli forces in Rafah.
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianca, every single day we are having more and more international voices join the call for Israel not to carry out this invasion, more world leaders added their voices to this chorus. 
 
We heard from German's Foreign Minister, for example calling it, saying it would be a human catastrophe. The French president saying that it could actually be a violation of international humanitarian law. 
 
There's been a statement as well written by the leaders of Canada, Australia and New Zealand together, saying this should not happen. I'll read part of it for you. It says, "We are gravely concerned by indications that Israel is planning a ground offensive into Rafah. An immediate humanitarian ceasefire is urgently needed, hostages must be released, the need for humanitarian assistance in Gaza has never been greater. Rapid, safe and unimpeded humanitarian relief must be provided to civilians."
 
Now we're hearing the very similar sentiment from many of the NGOs as well, some criticizing what is happening at the moment. The NASA medical complex pointing out it is an impossible decision for many who are sheltering their whether to leave as they have been ordered by the Israeli military. 
 
But as you have just mentioned, there have been some that have come under fire, we have heard from my witnesses from Israeli snipers. 
 
So, an increasingly desperate situation and then more so for the 1.3 million Palestinians in Rafah. At this point, the vast majority of them in sprawling tent cities. Food, water, shelter, is certainly not at the levels it should be, we are hearing consistently.
 
But the question for many of them now is do they try and leave and go to other areas where there is fighting still ongoing, or do they wait to see what will happen? 
 
So, it is a very desperate situation. We've heard from the U.N. aid chief for example on Wednesday saying, that if Israel were to carry out this Rafah offensive, it would lead to a slaughter. 
 <br>[04:25:08]
 
So, there is very strong and emotive words and warnings that being used, but at a time when we still hear the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, saying that he will take powerful action in Rafah after there is an evacuation. 
 
Many though questioning whether or not you can carry out such an evacuation, especially when many of them there are displaced a number of times having fled fighting in the past as well. 
 
We also heard from Ireland's leader Leo Varadkar, saying that he believed and accused Israel of being, "Blinded by rage," saying he was concerned that they simply aren't listening to anyone at the moment, even those closest to them, even the United States, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Paula Hancocks for us in Abu Dhabi, thank you. 
 
Israel has launched a new round of strikes in Lebanon and is warning the next one could be much worse. The IDF says its warplanes hit Hezbollah targets in five separate areas on Wednesday, aiming at military compounds, control centers and what it called terrorist infrastructure. The strikes came hours after a deadly attack in northern Israel, which the IDF says came from Lebanon. 
 
Israeli officials say an Israeli soldier was killed and multiple people wounded. Hezbollah has not claimed responsibility for the attack. But the IDF's chief of staff is warning that Israel's next campaign across the border will include a very strong offensive.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HERZI HALEVI, CHIEF OF GENERAL STAFF, IDF (through translator): In the end, we will be ready for war. If it doesn't end in war, it won't end by compromising the achievements. Hezbollah will not be present here on the fence.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Coming up, LGBTQ families in Greece hope a new bill will give them greater rights but some say that it doesn't go far enough. 
 
Plus, the United States is behind much of the West when it comes to the regulation of fertility treatments. CNN investigates how that lack of regulation can destroy lives, coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]