Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Trump to Arrive in D.C. for Meetings; Republicans to Vote on Senate Leadership Today; Jack Smith Stepping Down; Trump Returns to the White House. Aired 9-9:30a ET

Aired November 13, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00] 
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Watching these advertisements, you might get a little confused and say, well wait a minute, who does have the original recipe? I will note that KFC did trademark it in 1982, so it's not like they did it recently. But they also had this original recipe in the '50s. So, both companies coming up with this at the same time. However, one, KFC, decided to trademark it. 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: The way I'll handle it is just go have both, right? A double helping.
 
YURKEVICH: Sure. And then decide what's better. 
 
BERMAN: A double helping of fried chicken.
 
YURKEVICH: Decide what's the best original.
 
BERMAN: The trademark is fascinating. Fascinating.
 
YURKEVICH: Yes.
 
BERMAN: Vanessa Yurkevich, thank you so much.
 
YURKEVICH: Thanks.
 
BERMAN: A brand new hour of CNN NEWS CENTRAL begins right now. 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: We're standing by for a lot of action on Capitol Hill. Donald Trump coming to meet - going there to meet with House Republicans with Elon Musk by his side. And Senate Republicans are about to meet and vote for a new majority leader. Who will be the first Republican leader not named Mitch McConnell in nearly 20 years. We'll soon find out. 
 
Donald Trump is also set to head to the White House today. The president-elect accepting President Biden's invite to meet. A tradition and a curtesy Donald Trump did not extend when he lost the White House four years ago. 
 
And special counsel Jack Smith planning to resign before Donald Trump takes office and fulfill his vow to fire the special counsel. What could be in Smith's final report as he heads out the door about Donald Trump's investigations? 
 
I'm Kate Bolduan, with John Berman. Sara is out today. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
BERMAN: We are standing by for President-elect Trump to arrive in Washington. His plane should land at any moment. It is a big day for him. 
 
And we just learned that he will be joined for at least part of it by his new wing man, billionaire Elon Musk, who has seemingly been everywhere in this transition. He's on the plane right now, we understand. This is despite "Politico" reporting this morning that Musk might be wearing out his welcome. Sure doesn't look like that. At least not this morning.
 
So, Trump will visit the White House at the invitation of President Biden. An invitation that we noted was not extended four years ago. And that's a vast understatement. 
 
We're also standing by to see who Senate Republicans will pick as their new leader. That vote could happen any minute. 
 
Our Laruen Fox is on Capitol Hill. We've got Alayna Treene tracking Donald Trump first though. 
 
Alayna, what are you seeing? 
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: That's right, I'm outside the Hyatt, John, where Donald Trump is going to be coming any moment now as soon as his plane lands, where he will be meeting with House Republicans. 
 
And I do want to get into the Musk of it all because Elon Musk, I'm told, according to conversations with two Trump advisers, that he is currently traveling with Donald Trump on his plane, and he is going to attend that meeting as well. 
 
Now, I also asked, do you think there's any chance that Elon Musk could travel with Donald Trump to the White House as well, try to accompany him for his meeting with Joe Biden? Those advisers say that, as of now, they do not expect that. There are no plans for Musk to go to the White House with Donald Trump. But also always the caveat that you never - you can never really predict anything when it comes to the president-elect. 
 
But as for the meeting itself with these House Republicans this morning, I'm told that Donald Trump is really expected to take a victory lap, similar to what we saw when he met with Republicans earlier this year prior to the election. He wants to call for unity, say that he has a mandate that he was given by voters, given that he won the popular vote, and that he wants all of Washington, all Republicans in Washington, to really start moving quickly on his agenda. 
 
I'm told he's going to appoint and kind of give them some insight into the decisions that he's been making for his cabinet picks and other top picks for his second term, and kind of really encourage them to hit the ground running like he is. 
 
Now, I do also, John, just want to - like give you some insight into some of the picks that we learned about over the last 24 hours, because Donald Trump has been announcing a lot of new names for top roles in his administration. 
 
The first person that we'll - I'll share is the new U.S. ambassador to Israel. That is going to be Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, also Sarah Huckabee Sander's father, the current governor of Arkansas, and also Donald Trump's former press secretary. John Ratcliffe, his former director of national intelligence, he is going to be the new director of the CIA. We also know that Steve Witkoff, Donald Trump's close friend and real estate developer, is going to be his Middle East envoy. And then White House council will be Will McGinley. 
 
But one name I didn't mention that is getting a lot of attention today is Pete Hegseth. He is a Fox News host who Donald Trump tapped late last night to be his new secretary of Defense. When I talk to people who are involved in the transition process or are involved in these discussions at least, they tell me that many people in Donald Trump's orbit were surprised by that pick in Hegseth. They said that really he didn't become a leading contender to lead the Pentagon until Monday. 
 <br>[09:05:02]
 
And then he was interviewed in the following 24 hours by Donald Trump, not in person, I'm told that was remotely. But really when I asked them about, why Hegseth, they said it came down to Donald Trump really liking him. They've had a good relationship over the past several years. Trump thinks he's smart. He also thinks he has the, quote/unquote, "look" as one person told me. And that he really likes his military record and some of the things that he has said about the military, including wanting to get wokeness out of the military. So, those are some of the things that I've heard contributed to that decision, John.
 
BERMAN: All right, obviously, that appointment, CIA director, and the ambassador to Israel pending Senate confirmation. 
 
Alayna Treene, thank you very much.
 
On the subject of the Senate, let's get to Lauren Fox on Capitol Hill, where they're going to hold a vote shortly on who will be the next Senate majority leader. 
 
And you've been, you know, grabbing these senators going in. What's the count look like right now to you? 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, John, I am actually standing in what is known on Capitol Hill as the Ohio Clock Corridor. This is the spot where Mitch McConnell holds a weekly press conference. He's going to be now shortly giving that mantle to another top Republican. 
 
It's really unclear right now who is going to win this race. You have John Thune, John Cornyn, as well as Rick Scott, who's gotten this late surge in MAGA support. 
 
But I was talking to members just a few minutes ago who say that they are still undecided. Some of them say that they just don't want to publicly say who they are voting for. That's because this is a secret ballot election. 
 
Just around the corner from where I'm standing right now, in just a few minutes, senators will go into the old Senate chamber, they will hear the nominating speeches for each of these nominees. There will be some discussion. Then they will vote. When they vote, it is all secret ballot. That means no one, not their staff, not their fellow colleagues, not even Donald Trump will know who they supported in this election. 
 
At that point, the votes will be tabulated. If none of the candidates has gotten a majority, which today that magic number is 27, if none of them have gotten a majority, then the lowest vote getter will drop out and they will vote again.
 
Obviously, John, this could take some time because it's been nearly two decades since Republicans had a three-way contested GOP leadership race. Mitch McConnell has held this post for 18 years. 
 
So, a really significant transfer of power that we could see today on Capitol Hill. But again, we are just a few feet away from where Mitch McConnell gives his weekly press conference as the Republican leader each and every week.
 
John. 
 
BERMAN: Lauren Fox, grab who you can. Put your ear on the door. Let us know what you are hearing inside. We will come back to you as this develops over the next hour. 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: One thing we do know, going into these meetings they might not talk, but they do love to talk once they are on their way out. 
 
And someone who knows that better than most is joining us right now, is CNN anchor and chief political correspondent Dana Bash. 
 
The Ohio Clock Corridor brings back so many warm and fuzzy memories, Dana. 
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: So many. 
 
BOLDUAN: So, so, so many. 
 
Let's - let's start with the Senate Republican leadership vote, because whoever is going to be the Republican leader is the -- and majority leader is important, no question. But also, it kind of can represent maybe something of a signal whoever comes out on top of kind of what's going to be the prevailing force for the Senate Republican kind of agenda, and also the Republican Party. BASH: Yes. Yes, which is why Rick Scott has a ton of support from
 
 people in and around Donald Trump. It is noteworthy that Donald Trump himself has not weighed in, put his sort of thumb on the scale. Perhaps that is because if Rick Scott doesn't win, he doesn't want to have egg on his face. 
 
But nonetheless, I've talked to a Republican senator this morning who said that the calls coming in from people who listen to and watch Tucker Carlson, its intense. And so there is really big lobbying going on for the Trump orbit pick, if it's not Trump himself, and that is Rick Scott. 
 
The thing to keep in mind is that this is a secret ballot. So, we're not going to know unless these senators want to tell us who they voted for. And that is really, really a key thing to remember. And even if they tell us, I'm not saying that they're not trustworthy, but they don't have to tell us the truth. 
 
BOLDUAN: That is accurate. They do not have to. They are - they have been known to say lots of things. 
 
And then, at the same time, new House Republicans, they're also meeting. And you have Donald Trump going to meet with House Republicans with Elon Musk at his side. 
 
What do you - I mean one thing we know from history is that House Republicans especially, they - and House members, the conferences, they bring in big, bold names from their party, kind of luminaries often to come speak to them and rally the troops and whatever given the circumstances. 
 <br>[09:10:17]
 
But the Elon Musk of it all, as Alayna Treene was talking about, is such a fascinating turn, having - Donald Trump having him by his side as he goes in to talk to them. 
 
BASH: Well, especially since Donald Trump is that big, bold name. He just won in a remarkable way. And as you had in your sort of big letters on the screen there, a triumphant return to Washington. I mean you see that plane taking off, like it did this morning, coming back. 
 
When he left Washington in his official capacity, I defy you to find anybody who thought that this was going to happen. And it was going to happen in the way that it did. 
 
So, it just - having just been an observer of Donald Trump, as so many of us have for so many years, he clearly enjoys having Elon Musk around, enjoys having the power of his platform. He is a - the richest man in the world, which means a lot to - to Donald Trump. 
 
But the question is, how and when this kind of wears off for someone like him -
 
BOLDUAN: Yes, absolutely.
 
BASH: Who likes, and at this point, has earned the right to be the star of the show. 
 
BOLDUAN: And this is a different - Donald Trump's - Donald Trump with his return, this is a different Washington that he does return to. But I guess my wonder is, is it one that is easier or harder for him to manage this time around? What do you think? 
 
BASH: Listen, I was, you know, I was thinking about this, and I was wondering if there's kind of a counterintuitive sort of example to say, well, it could be harder. And I can't find one because if you think about the - never mind the numbers of the Republicans in the Senate and the House eight years ago, it's the makeup of the Senate and the House. There's - there are no more Adam Kinzingers in the House. I mean there are a few, but not many. In the United States Senate, I mean, name your Senate seat, and we can give probably an example of somebody who didn't like Donald Trump, didn't support Donald Trump, tried to push back against Donald Trump within his own party, who has retired and been replaced with a complete and total Trump supporter. 
 
I mean, Rob Portman, for example, in Ohio. He retired. J.D. Vance is in his seat. He is, obviously, going to be vice president. But there's no question that whomever is picked is going to be of that ilk. And you can go on and on and on down the line when you look at the sort of makeup of the Republican conference in the Senate and the House. And that really does change the game for Donald Trump in how he can get things through, who he can get through, and the kind of support he has for what he wants to do. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. 
 
It's great to see you, Dana. 
 
BASH: You too.
 
BOLDUAN: We're going to watch a lot of action happening play out at Capitol Hill and at the White House today together. Thanks.
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, breaking this morning, special counsel Jack Smith plans to resign before Donald Trump has the chance to fire him. Smith may try to put together something of a going away present.
 
Happening now, stock market futures pointing up after the first inflation report since the election released moments ago. A little mixed now. 
 
And this morning, conspiracy theorist Alex Jones will lose his Infowars media empire as it goes up for auction. We've got new reports on who's planning to make a bid.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:18:10]
 
BERMAN: All right, breaking this morning, word that special counsel Jack Smith is going to resign before Donald Trump takes office in January. Smith says he still wants to finish the majority of his investigations against Trump before leaving. 
 
CNN's Evan Perez is here with this reporting. 
 
All right, so, what does this all mean? What will we get from Smith? 
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, John, if it works out as they're planning, we're going to see a report publicly - a report publicly before Jack Smith is gone. Now, there's a lot of details that are going to be worked out, including him discussing this, of course, with the attorney general, Merrick Garland. 
 
Now, under the regulations, under the rules that the Justice Department has, he is required to produce a report at the end of his investigation. And as they've told the court, that by December 2nd they're going to lay out how they are going to proceed on this - on this whole process. Again, the other part of this will be the other detail that needs to be worked out is whether he needs to submit this report to the intelligence community. That's usually a part of this. But it's not clear whether that's going to be a delay of any kind because a lot of the investigative material was planned to be used in court, in these trials, which, of course, are not going to happen. 
 
And so it's not clear whether that's going to delay anything. But the - if it goes as planned, John, Jack Smith will be gone and Donald Trump won't have to go through the trouble of firing him. 
 
BERMAN: So, Evan, also breaking this morning, word that the FBI has made an arrest in the leaking of classified information pertaining to Israel's retaliation against Iran. Explain what's going on here?
 
PEREZ: Right. Well, the FBI arrested a former CIA employee. He was arrested in Cambodia over the last few days and has now been charged in federal court in east Virginia. 
 <br>[09:20:04]
 
His name is Asif Rahman. And according to the documents, he is charged with willfully retaining and transmitting national defense information. And the plan right now, John, is for - the prosecutors have asked a judge to have him removed from where he is right now. He is - was first presented to a federal court in Guam, and is expected to be brought back to eastern Virginia, where he would stand trial. 
 
These are documents - were intelligence documents that the U.S. prepared, basically looking at and assessing what Israel was planning to do in carrying out its attack on Iran. Now, that attack, of course, has already happened. So, we expect that this is now a case that this defendant is going to be presented in federal court here in Alexandria, Virginia, in the coming days. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, serious charges. Evan Perez, thank you very much for that. PEREZ: Sure.
 
BERMAN: All right, any minute now, Donald Trump arrives in Washington and he's got a plus one with him. Elon Musk. We've got new reporting on what's going on with this relationship.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:25:52]
 
BOLDUAN: Donald Trump is arriving back in Washington as Republicans on Capitol Hill are getting ready to vote on new leadership. 
 
First on Trumps schedule, he's expected to meet with House Republicans before their leadership vote. You're looking right now at live pictures of Joint Base Andrews. That's Trump's plane very clearly landing there, and then he'll be heading into D.C. So, we'll be tracking his movement there. 
 
He'll be heading to Capitol Hill and Republicans in the Senate are getting ready to usher in a new era. For the first time in 18 years, Mitch McConnell will not be the man leading the charge. The race to be the new Republican senator leader is down to three. You see them right there. Senator John Thune, Senator Rick Scott, Senator John Cornyn. 
 
After - in the midst of all of this, Donald Trump is also going to be heading to the White House to sit down at the invitation with President Biden. The out - as is tradition, the outgoing president inviting the incoming president to sit for this private meeting. 
 
CNN's MJ Lee is at the White House. Let's get to it.
 
MJ, what do you think - what are you hearing is kind of President Biden's mindset -
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Kate -
 
BOLDUAN: Or expectation or goal going into this meeting? 
 
LEE: Well certainly, Kate, the image that we are about to see here at the White House in just a matter of hours is going to be a pretty remarkable one. President Biden inviting his predecessor and the incoming president, Donald Trump, back to the White House four years after Donald Trump declined to extend that same courtesy to then- incoming President Joe Biden. 
 
It's clear that President Biden and the offenses that are working for him are very set on sending the message to the country that this election was fair, and that there now needs to be a focus on a peaceful transfer of power. 
 
It is also just going to be a rare opportunity, and perhaps the only opportunity for President Biden, to press some issues that are important to him, to the incoming president. For example, we've heard National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan saying that he is set on talking to the incoming president about the importance of the U.S. continuing to support Ukraine's war efforts. We, of course, don't know what effect, if any, those kinds of pleas will have on the incoming president. 
 
As for the mood here, Kate, at the White House, obviously this comes at a moment when emotions are running high. A lot of White House staff, aides who work for the president, were very much disappointed and stunned for some by the election results. They are still processing that. But according to the folks in the building here that I have talked to, they are trying to basically take their cues from President Biden, who, again, has made clear that he is focused on the business of the peaceful transfer of power. So, some of the folks that I've talked to, they are saying that they are set on treating this as any other busy day here at the White House. 
 
Now, as for the president himself, we actually haven't seen him very much out in public since Election Day. And I am told by one senior Democrat that he is quite sensitive to, and aware of, the finger pointing that is going on and the fact that he is actually getting a lot of the blame for what happened last week, and that he is not happy about that, and he doesn't think that that criticism has been fair.
 
Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: At the same time, as we've said, President Biden extending this invitation to meet at the White House with the president-elect, as is tradition. Also as tradition is the first lady extending the same invitation for the incoming first lady. And it had been something of a question, and doubtful. And just this morning we are now getting - we now are getting confirmation that the incoming first lady, Melania Trump, will not be meeting with Jill Biden? 
 
LEE: That's right. As was the expectation. We've just gotten the confirmation from the former first lady's office that she will not be joining Donald Trump for this visit to the White House. Here's what the office said in a tweet. They said, "Mrs. Trump will not be attending today's meeting at the White House. Her husband's return to the Oval Office to commence the transition process is encouraging, and she wishes him great success." 
 <br>[09:30:02]
 
As you said, the first lady had extended this invitation, but there had been some talk of a scheduling conflict.