Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Protests Continue in Israel; Dozens Killed in Russian Strike. Aired 11-11:30a ET

Aired September 03, 2024 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:01:06]
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  We're following breaking news this hour. A recovery operation is now under way after Russia struck a Ukrainian military academy, killing dozens of people. We're live in the capital of Kyiv. 
 
And in Israel, protesters this hour are set to flood the streets again, demanding a cease-fire-for-hostages deal. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu remains defiant. We will speak to the niece of an American-Israeli hostage. 
 
Also, Venezuela is accusing America of -- quote -- "piracy" after U.S. authorities seized what is considered that country's Air Force One. What message the Biden administration is sending. 
 
I'm Wolf Blitzer in Washington and you're in the CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
ANNOUNCER:  This is CNN breaking news. 
 
BLITZER:  Let's get straight to the breaking news. 
 
Rescuers in Ukraine right now are desperately trying to clear the rubble after a Russian strike on a Ukrainian military academy killed at least 47 people and injured more than 200 others. 
 
CNN senior international correspondent Fred Pleitgen is joining us now from Kyiv. 
 
Fred, what more are you learning? 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Hi there, Wolf. 
 
Well, apparently, this happened after two Russian ballistic missiles struck that educational facility in the town of Poltava, which is in Central Ukraine. And the way that the Ukrainians tell it is they say that there was actually an air raid alert that went off. The sirens went off. 
 
However, the time from when those sirens went off to the impact of the missile was so short that a lot of people were still heading for those air raid shelters, did not have time to get out of the path of those missiles that were incoming and therefore were caught completely off guard. 
 
You just mentioned it right now. The toll stands at 47 killed and more than 200 people wounded. Now, the first lady of Ukraine actually came out a short while ago and she said this. 
 
I want to read part of her statements -- quote -- "My deepest condolences to the families of those killed and injured in the Russian missile attack on Poltava. This is a terrible tragedy for the whole of Ukraine."
 
Then she goes on to say: "Russia is taking away our most valuable asset, our lives. We will never forget that."
 
So, as you can see, a lot of grief, a lot of anger here within Ukraine, the Ukrainians also saying that obviously emergency services were rushed to the scene almost immediately, trying to dig people out of the rubble, trying to save as many people as possible. They say that they managed to save 25 people, and 11 of them had to be dug out of the rubble. 
 
Aside from this military educational facility, the Ukrainians also say that a nearby hospital was damaged as well. As you can imagine, the leadership of this country vowing revenge, absolutely angry. In fact, the president of Ukraine came out shortly after this incident happened and once again called for longer-distance weapons for Ukraine and also called for more air defense weapons from Western nations, of course, first and foremost meaning the United States, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER:  They really want more of these Patriot air defense missile systems, which potentially could have shot down this incoming Russian missile. 
 
PLEITGEN:  Yes.
 
BLITZER:  And, as you correctly point out, Fred, President Zelenskyy is begging, he's repeating his call on Western allies, including, of course, the United States to supply Kyiv with more of these air defense missile systems. 
 
They would have made a huge difference and potentially could have saved a lot of Ukrainian lives at that Russian military educational center, the equivalent of a Russian ROTC center -- of a Ukrainian ROTC center, I should say. It would have made a huge difference in saving lives. 
 
PLEITGEN:  Yes, I mean, the Ukrainians say, well, certainly that it would have.
 
And it's one of the things, of course, that they have been saying, is that they not only need more air defense systems, but they need a lot more of those longer-range air defense systems. 
 
One of the things that actually the foreign minister of this country pointed out, Dmytro Kuleba, in an interview with CNN is, he said these ballistic missiles, especially the type Iskander missiles that the Russians often use, they're very difficult for surface-to-air missile systems to shoot down. 
 <br>[11:05:05]
 
However, the U.S.-supplied Patriot surface-to-air missile systems are ones that can shoot down these ballistic missiles and can also shoot- down some of the more sophisticated hypersonic Russian cruise missiles. The Ukrainians are saying they need more of these type of weapons and they don't have enough. 
 
And all this Wolf, by the way, also coming as we have seen a notable uptick in the number of aerial attacks that Russia has been launching at Ukrainian cities. There was one in Kyiv just yesterday as children that were gearing up to go back to school for the first day of the new term and also over the weekend, many aerial attacks as well, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER:  Huge development, indeed. 
 
Fred Pleitgen in Kyiv, Fred, thank you very much. 
 
I want to continue this conversation. 
 
Joining us now CNN's global affairs analyst Mark Esper. He served as defense secretary under then-President Trump. 
 
Mr. Secretary, thanks so much for joining us. 
 
Let me get your reaction. first of all, to this Russian strike on Central Ukraine that killed dozens of people. 
 
MARK ESPER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST:  Yes, it's a terrible assault, Wolf. 
 
It killed, as you said, dozens wounded, well over 200. It's probably one of the worst attacks ever. And it just highlights the brutality of the Russian onslaught against the Ukrainian people, that they are ranging cities all across Ukraine without any care as to whether it's a military or civilian target, because we know a hospital was hit in this latest strike as well. 
 
BLITZER:  This is one of the deadliest, if not the deadliest single airstrikes since Russia's invasion of Ukraine more than 2.5 years ago. 
 
How concerned are you, Mr. Secretary, that this war could further spiral out of control? 
 
ESPER:  Look, I'm very concerned that the onslaughts will continue to cause great damage, affect the morale of the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian people. 
 
At the same time, we know that Russian forces are moving closer to Pokrovsk, which is a major logistics hub in Central Ukraine as well, that they may capture it fairly soon. And it highlights the importance of what President Zelenskyy is pressing Washington to do, and that is lift the restrictions on the use of long-range United States weapons against Russia. I think, if the United States would relent -- and we have been putting
 
 these restrictions on him for years now -- it would give them the chance to seize more of the initiative. And then maybe, rather than trying to knock down a ballistic missile here and there, you can actually shoot at the warehouse in which the missiles are stored. 
 
I mean, there have been well over 240 targets identified by institutes like the Institute for the Study of war that are well within range of ATACMS, if only the Biden administration would allow Ukraine to use them against those fixed targets. 
 
BLITZER:  And, as you mentioned, Mr. Secretary, Ukraine has been pleading and pleading and pleading for a long time for the West, including the United States, for more and better air defense systems like the Patriot air defense missile system. 
 
As this war intensifies, would you expect the U.S. and its allies to be at least more willing to consider all those requests? 
 
ESPER:  Well, I hope so, Wolf, but there are two issues here. One is, are there enough interceptors, enough missiles? 
 
And I think clearly they need more of what's called the PAC-3 interceptor missiles that are used by the Patriot to knock down ballistic missiles. But the challenge they also have are enough launchers. And there's only so many of those launchers. We talk about Patriot batteries, if you will -- to kind of -- that can shoot the interceptor missiles. 
 
And I think that's a constrained number that we won't be able to produce quickly enough. And at the same time, it's important to note, Wolf, that we know that Russia is purchasing ballistic missiles from Iran. So Russians are now in Iran training on the use of short-range ballistic missiles, hundreds of which will soon be provided to Russia to use against Ukraine. 
 
And so you can see that this threat, whether it's ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, drones, is not abating any time soon. And Russia will continue to pummel Ukraine going into the fall and certainly try to knock out as much as they can with regard to Ukraine's energy supplies or the ability to generate power going into the winter. 
 
BLITZER:  I think we may have lost our connection with you, Mr. Secretary. If you can hear me, we will continue this conversation. Thanks so much for joining us. 
 
We have got a lot more news coming up this hour, including another day of major demonstrations in Israel. It's about set to begin over there this evening. They're demanding a cease-fire-for-hostages deal. 
 
My next guest's uncle is still being held by Hamas, 332 days and counting. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:14:17] (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over):  In the face of growing demands to get all the hostages home, Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu doubling down on his defiance. 
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER:  We're asked to make concessions. What message does this send Hamas? It says kill more hostages, murder more hostages, you will get more concessions. 
 
ROBERTSON:  Explaining he won't remove Israeli troops from the Gaza- Egypt border, a compromise Hamas demands. His only concession, rare contrition for the six hostage families. 
 
NETANYAHU (through translator):  I told the families, and I repeat and say this evening, I'm asking for your forgiveness that we didn't manage to bring them back alive. 
 <br>[11:15:02]
 
ROBERTSON:  Pressure for him to back down rocketed Sunday. Hundreds of thousands of Israelis took to the streets demanding he make the deal, save the other hostages. 
 
That energy and anger still alive on Monday, although the tempo and numbers down, their demands not changing. 
 
MICHAL HADAS NAOR, PROTESTER:  I'm here because I feel the government has neglected the hostages. They don't care about the hostages. 
 
BARACK ADURIAN, PROTESTER:  We want this government to cease to exist. We want elections. And, first and foremost, we want them to sign an agreement to release the hostages. 
 
ROBERTSON:  The whole nation watching what's at stake, Hersh Goldberg- Polin's poignant funeral testament to that. 
 
RACHEL GOLDBERG-POLIN, MOTHER OF HERSH GOLDBERG-POLIN:  I beg your forgiveness. We tried so very hard, so deeply and desperately. I'm sorry. 
 
ROBERTSON:  Not the cathartic homecoming his family believed to be in reach. 
 
GOLDBERG-POLIN:  We became absolutely certain that you were coming home to us alive. But it was not to be. 
 
ROBERTSON:  An American, but a son of Israel, his family's pain the nation's too. Goodbyes the country craves end here. 
 
GOLDBERG-POLIN:  OK, sweet boy, go now on your journey. I hope it's as good as the trips you dreamed about, because, finally, my sweet boy, finally, finally, finally, finally, you're free. 
 
I will love you and I will miss you every single day for the rest of my life. ROBERTSON:  Nic Robertson, CNN, Tel Aviv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:21:30]
 
BLITZER:  Tensions are threatening to boil over in the Middle East. 
 
You're looking at one of last night's nationwide protests in Israel demanding the Israeli government secure a cease-fire deal that would free the remaining hostages held by Hamas. Protesters also paraded empty coffins past the home of the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, the sense of urgency and anger underscored by this weekend's discovery of six hostages murdered by Hamas in a tunnel in Gaza. 
 
Israel calls it -- and I'm quoting now -- "cold-blooded murder."
 
Our next guest is the niece of one of those still being held. Israeli- American Keith Siegel was abducted from his home during the Hamas terror attack back on October 7. 
 
Hanna Siegel joins us now from here in Washington. 
 
Hanna, sorry we're speaking under these circumstances. As you know, we're approaching 11 months since loved ones, such as your uncle, whom you love, were taken hostage. How is your family, first of all, holding up? 
 
HANNA SIEGEL, NIECE OF HAMAS HOSTAGE:  Thank you for having me. 
 
We're devastated. And I think what I thought when I heard about Hersh and the other hostages who were killed, Hersh didn't have to die. Hersh didn't have to die. There has been a deal on the table that Netanyahu has refused to take for months now. 
 
And we are devastated and scared that these are not parties that can reach an agreement and bring Keith home. 
 
BLITZER:  Is your family at least encouraged by seeing these protests on the streets of Israel demanding that Israel's government secure the release of the hostages? 
 
SIEGEL:  Yes, that is the one bright spot of the weekend. 
 
I think seeing hundreds of thousands, literally hundreds of thousands of Israelis take to the streets, knowing that the majority of Americans, the majority of Israelis, the majority of Congress, there is such agreement that's so hard to find these days. Everybody wants the hostages home. There are 101 of them, including Keith, my uncle. 
 
He's 65. He turned 65 in captivity, and he needs to come home to his wife and his kids and his grandkids. BLITZER:  What do you make, Hanna, of Prime Minister Netanyahu
 
 publicly announcing that he will not bulge on conditions for a deal? He had a news conference yesterday.
 
SIEGEL:  Netanyahu has proven again and again and again that he doesn't want this deal. This is a person whose political future, he believes, depends on continuing the war. 
 
And what we saw this weekend is, the more military action in Gaza, the greater danger the hostages are in. And Netanyahu has met with members of my family, members of other hostage families, and promised to bring these hostages home. I -- he doesn't get to ask our forgiveness like he did yesterday. 
 
He is failing. He is failing to bring Israeli citizens home, American citizens home. And I'm devastated and I'm furious. 
 
BLITZER:  Yesterday, President Biden delivered a rare rebuke of Prime Minister Netanyahu, saying Netanyahu is not doing enough to secure a hostage deal. What was your reaction to that? 
 
SIEGEL:  The Biden administration, the president himself, Jake Sullivan, Secretary Blinken and others, have been extraordinarily supportive and transparent and communicative with us. 
 <br>[11:25:09]
 
I appreciate that. I think they would agree that no one is doing enough until our loved ones are home. And I worry that Netanyahu has been clear, as he was yesterday, that he doesn't want this deal. 
 
And so I implore the Biden administration -- and I know that they are exploring every possible way to get Keith and the other hostages home. But I think we need to think creatively and consider the idea that, when we're dealing with someone who doesn't actually want this deal, how do we get these hostages out? 
 
BLITZER:  You were among the hostage family members, Hanna, who spoke with the President Biden's national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, this weekend. 
 
Do you feel the Biden administration is doing enough right now to push for the release of the hostages? 
 
SIEGEL:  I mean, I think -- like I said, I think they would say they're not doing enough until the hostages are all home. 
 
And they did a call with us immediately. It is another showing of their extraordinary transparency and communication and support. And we know that they're committed to getting the Americans and the other hostages out, and they're not going to stop working until that happens. 
 
But it's extremely hard to keep up hope, even though Rachel Goldberg in her speech said hope is mandatory. And that's something that my family and I are hanging on to now, because it's extremely discouraging to watch this play out. 
 
BLITZER:  So what's your level of optimism or hope, for that matter, Hanna, that a breakthrough is imminent? 
 
SIEGEL:  I -- if I'm being honest, I don't know how to answer that question. 
 
We wake up every day and we have to be hopeful. There is truly no other option. And watching Jon and Rachel do what they did on Sunday after learning that Hersh had died, that's the kind of strength that we have to draw upon. 
 
I know that Keith will come home. I pray that he comes home soon and alive. And I have ultimate trust in the U.S. government. The problem is, the other parties, the parties that really need to make the deal, Hamas and Prime Minister Netanyahu, I don't trust them. 
 
BLITZER:  Your aunt Aviva, Keith Siegel's wife -- he's your uncle, Keith Siegel -- was held hostage on her part for 51 days, released as part of a November truce. 
 
Does that give you hope that your uncle Keith will soon be coming home? 
 
SIEGEL:  I think it's important to keep it in mind. It's possible. We know that it's possible. A hundred hostages were released, including Aviva. Aviva came home. She now spends her days advocating, speaking all around the world to get Keith released. 
 
And so -- so, yes, we know that it's possible. We know that it's possible. And what we need now is incredible pressure and work on behalf of the international community led by the United States to get Keith home. 
 
BLITZER:  Hanna Siegel, good luck. We hope your family is reunited, and reunited soon, and Keith is going to be OK. Thanks so much for joining us. 
 
SIEGEL:  Thank you, Wolf. 
 
BLITZER:  Up next: Venezuela's version of Air Force One seized by U.S. authorities and now being searched. 
 
New details about President Nicolas Maduro's private plane and what happens next to the $13 million jet. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)