Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Resentencing Recommendation for Menendez Brothers; Trump Rallies Voters in Arizona and Nevada; Harris with Obama and Springsteen in Georgia; Ceasefire Talks in Gaza Resume Within Days; Israeli Soldiers Forcing Palestinian prisoners to Act as Human Shields in Gaza; North Korean Troops Near Frontlines; U.S. Says At Least 3,000 North Korean Troops Inside Russia; IMF and World Bank Meetings Underway in Washington; BRICS Summit Wraps Up in Russia; Malaysia's Prime Minister Speaks to CNN; Space Junk Orbiting the Earth; Bruce Springsteen Performs at Harris-Obama Rally. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 24, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  -- just a smattering of fact checking there.
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Including him saying he looked at the CNN cameras and we turned him off while we were watching him on CNN cameras. 
 
 So, Jake, there you go.
 
TAPPER:  Right, exactly. All right. Tom, thanks so much. If you ever miss an episode of The Lead, you can listen to the show whence you get your 
 
 podcast. This news continues on CNN with Wolf Blitzer in The Situation Room. See you tomorrow.
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR-AT-LARGE:  A very good morning to you. 6:00 in the morning in Kuala Lumpur, 7:00 in Seoul. We're still at the back 
 
 end here in New York at 6:00 at night. I'm Richard Quest. Julia's off tonight. Wherever you are in this world, it is your "First Move."
 
And I've just realized if you are on the other side of the dateline, you're already into Friday. So, a very warm welcome to the start of your weekend. 
 
 This is what you need to know. The district attorney in Los Angeles says he will recommend that the Menendez brothers, Lyle and Erik, be resentenced. 
 
 The twins have spent more than 30 years in jail for the murders -- I beg your pardon, the brothers in the murders of their parents, they're not 
 
 twins.
 
The battleground blitz, Donald Trump rallies voters in Arizona and Nevada. Kamala Harris is going to take the stage, with her will be Barack Obama and 
 
 Bruce Springsteen, and that's in Georgia. Ukraine says North Korean troops have been spotted near the front lines for the first time. And a ticker-
 
 tape parade right here in New York, honoring the newest champions of the Women's National Basketball League. We've got all of that, and a great deal 
 
 more.
 
I start with the stunning developments in a case more than 30 years old. A murder case that gripped the U.S. back in the 1990s. It's the case of Lyle 
 
 and Erik Menendez found guilty of killing their parents in Los Angeles in 1989.
 
Now, the Los Angeles District Attorneys announced an hour ago that he will recommend to a judge that the brothers be resentenced. Under his 
 
 recommendations, the brothers could soon be freed. That's because of the amount of time that they've served. This is what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEORGE GASCON, LOS ANGELES COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  We're going to recommend to the court that the life without the possibility of parole be 
 
 removed and that they would be sentenced for murder, which because there are two murders involved, there will be 50 years to life. However, because 
 
 of their age under the law, since they were under 26 years of age at the time that this crimes occurred, they will be eligible for parole 
 
 immediately.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST:  Now, the Menendez brothers have said that they killed their parents of self-defense. The prosecutors at the time said they did it for financial 
 
 gain. Our civil attorney -- rights attorney and legal affairs coordinator, Areva Martin, is with me. This is fascinating, isn't it? Because not only 
 
 does it raise legal questions about evidence and that sort of thing, but also social mores and views on things like sexual abuse of -- by the father 
 
 on the children as to how this would have been handled now.
 
AREVA MARTIN, CIVIL RIGHTS ATTORNEY:  Absolutely, Richard. This case raises so many issues in addition to the ones you just articulated, it also raises 
 
 the issue of the purpose of lengthy prison sentences. One of the things that the district attorney noted was the conduct of the two brothers while 
 
 incarcerated. The fact that they took steps to educate themselves, to improve their own lives, but also that they helped others in the prison 
 
 sentence -- I mean, in the prison structure, including those that experienced trauma and those that had physical disabilities, stating that 
 
 they had been sufficiently rehabilitated and would no longer pose a threat to society. And that raises significant questions about others who are 
 
 serving very lengthy prison sentences.
 
QUEST:  You see, it's on that point, it's the bit without parole, because it's almost -- once you say without parole, you're saying this is so 
 
 heinous that you could never be released. Well, how can one know what it will be like in 30 years' time, which is exactly what's happening here? But 
 
 on, on this question, do you think the judge is going to go along with it?
 
MARTIN:  That's difficult to say. We know that there will be attorneys from the district attorney's office, Richard, that will be in court tomorrow. 
 
 And they will be in court when the court sets a hearing on the motion for resentencing, and they will be arguing against their boss. They will be 
 
 taking the position that these brothers should not be resentenced, that their current sentence as it should remain in place.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
So, the judge is going to not only have to weigh the district attorney's recommendation for resentencing and the reasons that he articulates 
 
 resentencing is appropriate, but he's going to have this split screen of career prosecutors from that very same office who are going to be taking an 
 
 opposite position. I think this is going to be a difficult decision for the judge and it's not clear what way this case will end up.
 
QUEST:  Now, on that point, is it right that -- you know, at the end of the day, the D.A. is charged in law and in policy with making these decisions. 
 
 That is the D.A.'s raison d'etre. So, is it right that people in his own department, I mean, can sort of say, well, we don't agree with the boss, we 
 
 think he's wrong?
 
MARTIN:  Well, that's how that particular district attorney's office is run. And the district attorney made it very clear that he respected the 
 
 counter opinions of his colleagues in his own office. He said that they had debated this for a long time, that there were different opinions, and he 
 
 would honor those that wanted to oppose his position.
 
QUEST:  Finally, I was interested, you know, that the recent case of the man who was executed where the prosecutors were actually calling for the 
 
 execution to be delayed, or at least the sentence to be commuted. The judges across the spectrum all said no, no, no, even though the prosecutor 
 
 themselves said this man should not be executed. I see parallels here.
 
MARTIN:  Absolutely. That was the case -- or one of the cases that occurred in was in Missouri, where the prosecuting attorney that had prosecuted this 
 
 particular defendant also took the position that the evidence was faulty and that the execution should be delayed. But as you just stated, the judge 
 
 disagreed.
 
Judges have the purview. They have the jurisdiction over sentencing, not district attorneys. District attorneys bring cases, they prosecute 
 
 defendants, but ultimately, the decision about sentencing rests with judges, and it's going to be the judge in this case that will decide the 
 
 fate of the Menendez brothers, not this district attorney or even those career prosecutors that oppose his decision.
 
QUEST:  I'm grateful for your time Thank you.
 
MARTIN:  Thank you, Richard.
 
QUEST:  Kamala Harris and Donald Trump are crisscrossing the United States in the final days before the election. Now, the vice president's relying on 
 
 star power. And she will rally in Georgia alongside President Barack Obama, Bruce Springsteen, and a host of others. A source says on Friday she'll 
 
 appear with Beyonce and Willie Nelson in Houston.
 
Meanwhile, Donald Trump's making stops in Arizona and Nevada. He said he would fire the special counsel, Jack Smith, immediately after taking 
 
 office. Smith, of course, is overseeing the two investigations exactly into Trump, his attempt to overthrow the election, and his handling of 
 
 classified documents.
 
Our political analyst, Jackie Kucinich, joins me now. Are we well and truly now into the last hurdles of this election and it is bitter, it is not -- 
 
 it is -- well, you give me your assessment.
 
JACKIE KUCINICH, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST AND WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF, THE BOSTON GLOBE:  We knew that -- because we've seen Donald Trump now run 
 
 three times that this was going to get bitter and nasty and it has. But you're right, we are in the final days and you have the candidates all over 
 
 the country and really encouraging people to vote early. That's been a key strategy for Democrats and for Republicans, though they've been kind of 
 
 fighting against Trump who doesn't like people to mail in their ballots. But that's been something that you've heard, you know, both sides 
 
 encouraging.
 
And, you know, Richard, you always know when it's getting to the end of a campaign because Democrats roll out Bruce Springsteen and they roll out the 
 
 big heavy hitter celebrities to really try to get people out to vote.
 
QUEST:  Now, on this question of early voting, there's a strong argument that says if Donald Trump had actually embraced early voting in 2016 and 
 
 encouraged Republicans to do it en masse, he probably would have won, because there would have been so many that would have done it. Now, it's 
 
 arguably the same here. If he wasn't so against it, he could actually be to his benefit.
 
KUCINICH:  But you know -- right. Now, you have Republicans really reinforcing it where they really didn't know what to do in 2020 when he was 
 
 pushing so hard against it. So, you really do have the RNC saying one thing and the president -- and Former President Trump saying another. And that's 
 
 got to be confusing to voters when they're hearing officials from both sides and it's really just a question of who they listen to, and we won't 
 
 know that until Election Day.
 
QUEST:  I apologize. I misspoke a moment ago. I said 2016, of course, I meant 2020.
 
KUCINICH:  I knew what you meant.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
QUEST:  Yes, I know. But, you know, there'll be somebody somewhere out there who thinks Quest doesn't know what he's talking about. What an idiot. 
 
 And they'll be writing to me.
 
KUCINICH:  Right.
 
QUEST:  Listen, give me a gut feeling, where does the last 10 days go?
 
KUCINICH:  Oh, my goodness, Richard. If anyone tells you they know how this is going to end, they're not telling you the truth. This is going to go 
 
 right down to the wire. The country is really split 50-50. And it's cliche to say here, but it is going to come down to who turns out.
 
Now, Pennsylvania is the biggest prize in terms of the swing states, and that is where we're going to see a lot of energy the final days really -- 
 
 you know, I'm sure Pennsylvania voters are sick of people knocking on their doors. I think I saw earlier that the Philadelphia area stations don't have 
 
 any more ads space to sell.
 
So, really, if you're in Pennsylvania, I feel like someone's going to be knocking on your door probably right now-ish because that -- they really -- 
 
 that one is a must win for Kamala Harris in particular, but also Donald Trump.
 
QUEST:  Why do you think that this 50 percent that is rock solid for Donald Trump is immune to say -- to these accusations from Trump's own people? I 
 
 mean, I listened last night to Kamala Harris. You know, she did the laundry list of everything from McMaster's to Kelly to everybody else in between, 
 
 but it's not having any effect. Why do you think that is?
 
KUCINICH:  So, it's more like 30, 40 percent that are the solid Trump base, and it's those voters that kind of switch back and forth, maybe voted for 
 
 Trump, then voted for Biden, and now are on the fence. For his biggest supporters, it's baked in. They don't believe anything anyone says against 
 
 him. They look at -- they listen to him, and if he says that they're disgruntled employees, and he believes them.
 
Otherwise, the voters we've spoken to, who aren't necessarily the biggest Trump fans, remember what their personal economy was like during the Trump 
 
 years, and it was only a couple of years ago. Now, when you look at, you know, balance sheet, you're looking at all the economic indicators, it 
 
 looks like things are going really well. But when you come -- when you talk to voters in some of these swing states, they don't feel it. And that is 
 
 why you're seeing voters. They told us that they're going to vote for Donald Trump because they think he's going to bring back a stronger economy 
 
 and put more money in their pockets.
 
QUEST:  I'm grateful for your time. Thank you.
 
KUCINICH:  Thank you.
 
QUEST:  We go to the Middle East now, where efforts to secure a Gaza ceasefire and hostage deal could resume. But the U.S. officials are telling 
 
 us there's little expectation of a breakthrough before the presidential election. The negotiators are going to meet in Doha, in Qatar, where 
 
 they'll have talks. Antony Blinken, the secretary of state, wrapped up his latest tour with meetings there. The Qataris say they've re-engaged with 
 
 Hamas after the death of the terror group's leader, Yahya Sinwar, and they're pledging to repressure all sides to reach a deal.
 
Jeremy Diamond investigates claims that Israel is forcing Palestinians to act as human shields in Gaza to avoid putting its troops in harm's way.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  They walked through the rubble at gunpoint into potentially booby-trapped buildings and 
 
 down darkened tunnels. Some were teenagers like 17-year-old Mohamed (ph).
 
MOHAMED (PH) (through translator):  I was handcuffed and wearing nothing but my boxers.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Others, like Abu Ali Yassin (ph) were grandparents.
 
ABU ALI YASSIN (PH) (through translator):  They placed me in areas where I could be exposed to gunfire.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  These five Palestinians, all civilians, say the Israeli military detained them and used them as human shields in Gaza.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  We were forced to enter homes. Each time, our lives we at risk. We feared death. We were afraid something 
 
 might happen. They would ask us to do thing like, "move this carpet," saying they were looking for tunnels.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Now, for the first time on camera, an Israeli soldier is coming forward with his own account, describing how his infantry 
 
 unit used two Palestinians as human shields.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We told them to enter the building before us. If there are any booby traps, they will explode and not us.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  We've blurred his face and changed his voice because he risks reprisals for speaking out. Breaking the Silence, a watchdog group 
 
 which verifies soldiers' testimonials, provided photographs and facilitated the interview. The soldier says a 16-year-old boy and 20-year-old man were 
 
 brought to his unit this spring.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Their hands were tied behind their back, and they had a cloth over their eyes.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  The instructions from the intelligence officer who delivered them were clear.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He told me to take them. In the next attack, use them as a human shield. He told me that they have a connection to Hamas.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  For two days, his unit followed those orders. This haunting photo captures the scene, the silhouette of a Palestinian man 
 
 flanked by two soldiers ordering him forward.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  When we went to the attack, before they enter a building, we took the cloth off so they could see. In my company, one of 
 
 the soldiers knew Arabic. He just shouted in Arabic, open the door, walk to this building, or the other.
 
DIAMOND:  You're using them because you think this building might be booby trapped.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, my soldiers didn't like that at all, and they refused to do this anymore.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  The soldiers decided to take their concerns to their senior commander, telling him they believed they were violating 
 
 international law.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The commander told his fellow, a simple soldier doesn't need to think about international law.
 
DIAMOND:  He didn't say, you guys shouldn't be doing this, this shouldn't be happening?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He said that we need to do this. He said that our lives are more important.
 
DIAMOND:  So, he didn't just tell you don't worry about it, he said keep doing it?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, yes.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Eventually, the commander relented, telling his soldiers they could release the two Palestinians.
 
DIAMOND:  Suddenly, you're allowed to release?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, it made it sure to us that they are not terrorists.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  In a statement, the Israeli military said the IDF's directives and guidelines strictly prohibit the use of detained Gaza 
 
 civilians for military operations. The relevant protocols and instructions are routinely clarified to soldiers in the field during the conflict.
 
But the Israeli military's use of human shields in Gaza appears to have been widespread. So common it even had a name, Mosquito Protocol. Both 
 
 Israeli and international law banned the use of civilians in combat.
 
Israel also accuses Hamas of using civilians as human shields. There is ample evidence for it. Tunnels dug beneath homes and rockets fired from 
 
 residential neighborhoods.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  For me, it's more painful with my own army. Hamas is a terrorist organization. The IDF shouldn't use terrorist organization 
 
 practices.
 
DIAMOND:  And so, when you hear, you know, spokespeople for the Israeli military, Israeli government officials saying, you know, the Israeli 
 
 military is the most moral army in the world.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That's bull -- of course, I don't believe that.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Dr. Yahya Al-Kayali (ph), who worked at Al-Shifa Hospital, knows that all too well Months after he says Israeli soldiers 
 
 forced him to risk his life he cannot shake this terrifying experience.
 
DR. YAHYA AL-KAYALI (PH):  A soldier asked me to come. He was talking to me to English, told me I will kill you if you didn't enter there. I was 
 
 thinking that I will be killed or die within minutes.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  His brush with death and the day he feared he would never again see his family.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST:  Jeremy Diamond reporting there. Turning now to a significant and potentially dangerous development in the war in Ukraine. The country is now 
 
 saying on Thursday that North Korean troops have been spotted for the first time near the front lines in Russia's Kursk region.
 
Now, Kursk, that's the area in Russia where Ukraine staged a surprise incursion over the summer. The U.S. secretary of defense, Lloyd Austin, has 
 
 warned this week of the dangers of North Korea entering the fray.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE:  If they're co-belligerents, their intention is to participate in this war on Russia's behalf, that is a very, 
 
 very serious issue.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST:  Ukraine said as many as 12,000 North Korean troops are now in Russia. That The United States says the number's at least 3,000. The 
 
 Russian President Vladimir Putin did not confirm or deny the presence of these soldiers when asked about it on Thursday. Recently, Russia struck a 
 
 military assistance pact with Pyongyang.
 
Colonel Cedric Leighton's with me, our military analyst and retired U.S. Air Force member, the founding member of the cyber security consulting firm 
 
 CYFORIX. OK. Cedric, take me through this, why -- what's the advantage -- besides numbers of people, what's the advantage from the Russian point of 
 
 view of bringing the North Koreans in?
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST AND U.S. AIR FORCE (RET.):  Yes, the main thing is those numbers, Richard, and the key thing 
 
 for the Russians is they have had a significant amount of casualties. Somewhere around 500,000 are wounded and killed in the war with Ukraine. 
 
 So, instead of trying to replenish using a draft system or some type of conscription they are not -- the Russians are not doing that, especially in 
 
 the big cities.
 
And what they're doing instead is they're importing their fighting force. And in this case, they're importing it from North Korea. That very fact is, 
 
 of course, unique to this particular war. And it's also -- you know, basically shows that the Russian military has not only submitted its 
 
 personnel, but it also has significant weapons shortages, which the North Koreans are helping with as well.
 
QUEST:  All right. NATO knows the difficulty of bringing people from different countries together to fight in a war, and NATO does it at the 
 
 highest levels of sophistication, as you know. How easy is it just to import these fighters?
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
They don't -- well, I'm assuming they don't speak Russian or Ukrainian, or they'll have a poor command of any of the other languages. How does it 
 
 work?
 
LEIGHTON:  Yes, that's really difficult because it really depends how they're going to set up the command of those forces, Richard. And if they 
 
 are under Russian command, then the orders are going to be in Russian. So, at least some of the North Korean officers are going to have to know 
 
 Russian. Many of them do. They've studied in Russia before. The old ones have studied in the Soviet Union when that existed.
 
But it still presents a lot of difficulty. And any type of multinational army has those kinds of difficulties built into it. And with their 
 
 linguistic difficulties, there will also be difficulties in logistics. There'll be difficulties with intelligence. There'll be difficulties with 
 
 operations.
 
QUEST:  What do we know about the fighting force of North Korean troops? Let's assume that -- let's just for the purposes of this question, assume 
 
 they've sent some of their best. But at the end of the day, they're in a foreign country fighting for a war that they don't necessarily -- they 
 
 don't have -- I mean, they have their own skin in the game as such, but you know, it's not like you're fighting for your own homeland per se. So, what 
 
 -- how would you rate the North Koreans as fighters in this particular combat?
 
LEIGHTON:  It really depends on exactly what forces they've committed to this. If it's the best of the best, if it's the special operations forces, 
 
 for example, those are hardened fighters. But the big caveat there is none of them have been in a war situation since -- really since 1953. And none 
 
 of those people are alive to actually deal with this particular and be able to deal with such a conflict as Ukraine.
 
So, they are -- those troops would be very good, very capable but they would probably not be up to the same standards as the Ukrainians.
 
QUEST:  Cedric, I just want to quickly get one last question. How would you -- the arrival of these troops, is it militarily significant or is it an 
 
 oddity quirk in this war?
 
LEIGHTON:  It depends on how they're going to be employed, but I would say it's more of a quirk than a significant development from a military 
 
 standpoint. The numbers aren't enough to make a difference on the battlefield.
 
QUEST:  I'm grateful. Thank you. I just wanted to get -- my apologies, I just wanted to get that last bit in. Thank you. Good to have you.
 
Now, the Philippines, where tropical storm Trami has killed more than 20 people. Trami has brought heavy rain and flooding and forced thousands of 
 
 people to leave homes. And to the west of India, we have the Cyclone Dana, which has made landfall. Chad Myers, it's always a busy day for you, Chad.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  It is. Somewhere in the world, Richard, there's something going on. For the people of the Philippines, the storm is 
 
 called Kristine because the naming changes from the joint typhoon warning center to the Philippines. But still, Trami here now only less than 100 
 
 kilometers per hour. This was never a wind event. This was always a rain event. More than a half a meter of rainfall fell. I mean, we're talking 20 
 
 inches of rainfall just in 48 hours, in some spots picked up about 250 millimeters in 12 hours.
 
So, causing flooding, causing mudslides, real problems for the people here on the east coast, yes, but on the west coast as well, because the storm 
 
 has that backside, the part of the eye that comes around and brings the rain to parts of the Philippines on the west side there of the islands, 
 
 that's going to try to make a run toward Da Nang, stop and then possibly even come back over the weekend and into next week.
 
Now, Da Nang will get significant rainfall, at least a couple of hundred meters there -- millimeters, but the area here that's going to see the 
 
 heaviest rainfall could again be the Philippines if it does come back around. This is still five days away. Things change rather rapidly, 
 
 obviously. We can't make a 10-day forecast for tropical cyclones.
 
But another one, as you said, Dana there moving into parts of India, making landfall right now, according to the Indian Met Service, 120 kilometers per 
 
 hour. So, it is a wind event, a surge event, and certainly, it will be a rain event. The difference here may be a little bit is the amount of 
 
 population, the density of population, Richard here. You know here from West Bengal how many people are going to be in the way and in a very low 
 
 land area in some spots. So, you can't get 150 to 250 millimeters of rainfall and not have problems there across parts of Northeastern India. 
 
 Richard.
 
QUEST:  I'm grateful as always. CHAD Myers, thank you.
 
MYERS:  You're welcome.
 
QUEST:  As you and I continue, the IMF's world of worry, the fight against inflation is being won, but the challenges continue. Julia has been talking 
 
 to the MD.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
Also, the tugboats of the space age. Sizes of a washing machine and the space tugs will become more important as the race accelerates and the junk 
 
 accumulates the head of the space tug firm impulse. This is a phenomenal interesting story. I'll tell you about in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
QUEST:  Welcome back. The Money Move, the Dow extends its losing streak and yet profitable for tech. The Dow finished well off its worst level, still 
 
 down for the fourth stage session, and a rough day for the Dow components, IBM and Boeing. 6 percent off for IBM after Q3 miss. And Boeing off 1 
 
 percent. Well, you know, the striking, where I am, machinists rejected a contract offer on the grounds of pension reasons.
 
Tesla was up 22 percent after Q3, the best day in more than a decade. You're looking -- I mean, 21 percent in a day. Elon must see strong growth 
 
 next year as Tesla rolls out a cheaper vehicle. And news after the bell, shares of Capri, the parent company of Versace and Jimmy Choo shoes, where 
 
 Jimmy Choo was down almost 50 percent after a judge blocked the merger deal with Tapestry, which owns Coach and Kate Spade.
 
Red Arrows in Asia on Thursday, the NASDAQ's bounce could give the -- we could end up with a bounce when things get going in the next hour or so.
 
The fall meetings of the IMF and World Bank are underway in Washington. This year's meetings are dominated by the uncertainty over upcoming U.S. 
 
 elections, as well as concern over rising debt levels, trade tensions, and sluggish economic growth, in China particularly. The IMF notes that the 
 
 fight against inflation has been largely won and has done so without a recession. Julia sat down with the M.D. Kristalina Georgieva.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTALINA GEORGIEVA, IMF MANAGING DIRECTOR:  This is first time when we have a big inflation episode that ends without the recession. But you're 
 
 not going to see champagne popped up this week. Inflation is down. But the price level is still high.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  Right.
 
GEORGIEVA:  And people feel it in their pockets and they're angry. We are faced with low growth, high debt prospects for the next years. Trade that 
 
 used to be an engine of growth is no more. So, we have to concentrate on how to lift the power growth prospects, how to manage better our future.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, you've talked about all the big challenges there. You also suggested that your forecast for growth over the next couple of years 
 
 could even be halved by tighter financial conditions, trade tensions, oil price rises, all the risks that we're potentially facing at this moment.
 
It's the most immediate one though, political, perhaps the U.S. presidential election? Both candidates are talking about protectionist 
 
 policies. One, the former president could potentially cause a trade war.
 
GEORGIEVA:  When we look at the prospects, we recognize that, not just in the United States, in many countries, there is popular support for 
 
 protectionism, and it is very important, Julia, to understand why. And the reason is during the heydays of globalization of a highly integrated global 
 
 economy, yes, the world benefited as a whole, but there were communities that lost from it. And they were not given any attention.
 
CHATTERLEY:  But in a very simple way, tariffs aren't the answer.
 
GEORGIEVA:  Look, facts from history, what do they tell us? First, who pays for tariffs? It is the business and the consumers in the country that 
 
 imposes them. They get transferred, by and large, transferred to them too.
 
In three out of four cases, when there is a tariff, there is retaliation. And somebody else is hit, a business is hit by it. So, it is not the very 
 
 best way to handle our economy, especially when growth is slowing down. I think we have to think of ways in which we can respond to the reasons why 
 
 people are anxious. And also, we show respect for what we learned during the pandemic and what we learned from Russia's war, that supply chains are 
 
 fragile. And therefore, this notion of security, national security, has to be taken into accounts.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Part of the political football there is China and the United States, and you've made some very pointed comments about China and their 
 
 outlook for growth.
 
GEORGIEVA:  We have been very clear, China is faced with the fork on the road.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes.
 
GEORGIEVA:  They can continue to pursue the export led growth model, or they can push more for consumer driven growth. We are telling China, take 
 
 the second path. Take the second path. And it is critical for China to take also reforms of state-owned enterprises, reform the debts at the local 
 
 level, because if they don't that means that in not too far future, China would see a slowdown. Bad for China, bad for Asia, not so great for the 
 
 whole world.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST:  That's the managing director of the IMF. As the BRICS summit wraps up in Russia. I'm talking to Malaysia's prime minister about his country 
 
 and balancing the fine line in the middle of Moscow and Washington.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
QUEST:  In Russia, world leaders have wrapped up their first ever meeting of the so-called BRICS Plus group. So, what's BRICS Plus? Iran, the UAE, 
 
 and Egypt. The meeting is also being seen as a potential shift from the U.S.-led diplomacy on the global stage.
 
The Russian president focused in his final day speech on the Middle East, saying that the conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon must end.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  The military actions that began a year ago in Gaza have now spread to Lebanon. Other 
 
 countries in the region have been affected and the degree of confrontation between Israel and Iran has sharply increased. All this resembles a chain 
 
 reaction and puts the entire Middle East on the brink of a full-scale war.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST:  Now, with signs that Russia is making greater moves on the world stage, Malaysia's Prime Minister admits he's walking a fine line, keeping 
 
 ties close with both Moscow and Washington. Anwar Ibrahim met Vladimir Putin on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum last month. And when I 
 
 was recently in Kuala Lumpur, the Prime Minister told me Malaysia is simply being pragmatic when it comes to international relations.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANWAR IBRAHIM, MALAYSIAN PRIME MINISTER:  We are great friends in the United States, notwithstanding our differences on a number of issues. Why 
 
 can't we be a friend of China and Russia, although we have some differences?
 
QUEST:  Because when Russia is at war, a war in Europe that Russia started, in those circumstances, any act by a leader like yourself can be used by 
 
 the others as supporting.
 
IBRAHIM:  No, most countries are in touch with Russia. Most of the country, Middle East, China, Africa, you can see in the BRICS, Brazil, South Africa. 
 
 I mean, that's the position taken by the International Community.
 
QUEST:  You're trying to walk a very fine line. You're trying to walk a fine line between friends with all, enemies with none. It doesn't work. 
 
 Eventually, you have to take sides.
 
IBRAHIM:  We take a position, we take a clear position. I mean, Russian invasion of Ukraine will be quite clear, right? The aggression in Gaza, 
 
 we'll will make it clear. So, why is it an issue? As far as I'm concerned, it is -- has been consistent. Yes, it is difficult.
 
I recognize Malaysia is a small country. United States is one of the most important trading partner we welcome. And then issues off military 
 
 cooperation, economic cooperation, digital, we're all with United States and China. I mean, what is the issue? I mean, we have to survive as a 
 
 nation.
 
QUEST:  That could backfire. That could backfire.
 
IBRAHIM:  Well, we hope not because now, unlike the during the Cold War of the past and the imperial attitude in the past, now more countries -- that 
 
 is why we support the need to strengthen Global South so that more countries take a position that they should not be bullied, they should 
 
 engage with the United States and Europe and China and Russia. That's our position.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
QUEST:  And that's the Malaysia Prime Minister. Radio, TV, GPS, science, navigation, all up there. Well, a few of the role satellites are playing, 
 
 spinning high above the Earth. Space is getting saturated, and how we deal with that, coming up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
QUEST:  So, you're looking at the Falcon 9 launch from Cape Canaveral SpaceX Rocket so powerful, it can put dozens of satellites into orbit all 
 
 at once.
 
Now, the space around space and the Earth is getting quite crowded. At the last count, there are at least 11,000 satellites up there. Yes, 11,000 of 
 
 them. And it's likely to rise fivefold by 2030. According to satellitemap.space this is a live look at the Starlink satellites in orbit 
 
 over New York right now. So, over my head, all of that at the moment. And this map, recorded a little earlier, shows the satellites over Beijing. 
 
 It's courtesy of inthesky.org.
 
Wherever we look up there, it's a space jam, and so much traffic. The challenge is keeping not only the satellites going and moving around, you 
 
 have to move them around and dispose of them safely, as necessary. CNN's Anna Stewart explains all this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  170 million pieces of space junk flying around the Earth at speeds nearly seven times faster than a bullet. 
 
 Some as small as bits of paint, others parts of once working satellites now dead.
 
MILTON DAVIS, NASA SPACE VEHICLE EXPERT:  Typically satellites if they run out of fuel or something happens to it where it`s just not working, it is 
 
 essentially orbiting around the Earth dead.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  As objects collide in space or quit functioning, the more crowded the area becomes and the more debris, the higher the risk to 
 
 other objects in orbit. But an Italian firm called D-Orbit hopes to decrease this risk in overcrowding with a vehicle specially made for 
 
 relocations, cleanup and repairs, the GEA.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
LUCA ROSSETTINI, CEO, D-ORBIT:  Once you collect the space debris, in the future instead of wasting these debris, these raw materials, you can bring 
 
 them into recycling station in orbit in order to produce raw materials that is going to be used in orbital manufacturing facilities to create bigger 
 
 values.
 
STEWART (voice-over):  With a $130 million contract from the European Space Agency, the company plans to use their device on satellites in 
 
 geostationary orbit. That's when a satellite remains over one specific part -- 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST:  Would -- that we could stay in space. Instead, we need to go to the ground. This is Bruce Springsteen, who's about to perform at a Kamala 
 
 Harris rally.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING
 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN, SINGER:  Thank you. Thank you, thank you. I'm Bruce Springsteen. And I am here today to support Kamala Harris and Tim Walz for 
 
 president and vice president of the United States and to oppose Donald Trump and J. D. Vance.
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
Now, here's why. I want a president who reveres the constitution, who does not threaten, but wants to protect and guide our great democracy, who 
 
 believes in the rule of law and the peaceful transfer of power, who will fight for a woman's right to choose, and who wants to create a middle-class 
 
 economy that will serve all our citizens. There is only one candidate in this election who holds those principles dear, Kamala Harris.
 
She's running to be the 47th president of the United States. Donald Trump is running to be an American tyrant. He does not understand this country, 
 
 its history, or what it means to be deeply American. And that's why November 5th, I'm casting my vote for Kamala Harris and Tim Waltz.
 
I urge all of you who believe in the American way to join me. Thank you. This is land of hope and dreams.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SPRINGSTEEN:  Yes, yes, yes. All right. Now, it's time for some entertainment. Here we go.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SPRINGSTEEN:  Thank you, Atlanta. Kamala Harris and Tim Walz for president and vice president. Get out there and vote.
 
QUEST:  Right. Bruce Springsteen there, two songs -- well, three songs actually, but the appropriate ones were "The Promised Land" and "The Land 
 
 of Open Dreams," both songs of course, all about America, particularly land of -- "The Promised Land," the story -- the song that he wrote in the '70s, 
 
 all about resilience in the face of despair, resilience and continuing in to get things done. And then "The Land of Hope and Dreams" again, one of 
 
 the most important songs in terms of picking yourself up and continuing.
 
And Bruce Springsteen being so much part of this campaign and putting, if you will, the whole New Jersey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, blue collar 
 
 message which is coming along with that and which was very prominent in today.
 
And so, the campaigning continue right across the globe, in the United States and all the major swing states. Our coverage continues. This is CNN. 
 
 I'm glad you're with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END