Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Netanyahu and Biden Hold First Phone Call in a Month; Kate Theories Circulate Amid more Photo Controversy; Oprah Winfrey Highlights New Weight Loss Drugs in New Special; IMF: Almost 40 Percent of Jobs Worldwide could be Affected by AI; Injury Forces Messi Out Argentina Friendlies. Aired 9- 9:45a ET

Aired March 19, 2024 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: It is 1 pm here in London. I'm Bianca Nobilo. And this is "Connect for world". The U.N. warns of imminent 
 
 famine in Northern Gaza as the latest round of ceasefire talks end in Qatar. We're live in Doha for the very latest. 
 
Haiti spirals deeper into chaos as gangs' battle for control of the capital. CNN is on the ground and we have a special report for you and a 
 
 former Trump White House adviser reporting to federal prison today. As the war rages in Gaza, a new sobering assessment of conditions there from 
 
 America's top diplomat. Here's what U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is saying today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: 100 percent of the population in Gaza is at severe levels of acute food insecurity. That's the first time an 
 
 entire population has been so classified.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Blinken's comments from the Philippines come as he prepares to head to Saudi Arabia and Egypt to discuss progress towards an Israel Hamas 
 
 ceasefire. He spoke a day after the U.S. and Israeli leaders held their first phone call in about a month. President Joe Biden again voicing 
 
 concern over a looming Israeli ground offensive in Rafah which Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vows will happen. The U.S. National Security 
 
 Adviser clarified the administration's stance to reporters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Our position is that Hamas should not be allowed to save haven in Rafah or anywhere else. But a major 
 
 ground operation, there would be a mistake. It would lead to more innocent civilian deaths, worse in the already dire humanitarian crisis, deepen the 
 
 anarchy in Gaza, and further isolate Israel internationally.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: We have Priscilla Alvarez in Washington and Paula Hancocks is in Doha with news on the latest round of ceasefire talks. Paula, let's start 
 
 with you. So several key players have left Doha where do things stand as far as the negotiations are concerned?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well Bianca, we know that the Mossad Director David Barnea has left. He was the one who was authorized to lead 
 
 these negotiations. That he -- we understand that had very clear boundaries of how far he could go and what he could agree to. 
 
So he has left and we understand the technical teams have now picked up and they're finessing the details if you like. So what we've heard from the 
 
 spokesperson here in Doha for the Foreign Ministry is that he is cautiously optimistic. The fact that these talks have resumed makes him cautiously 
 
 optimistic, and they are expecting some kind of counter proposal to be able to take to Hamas.
 
But he says it's too early to claim any kind of success. So really, this -- this does seem to be just another step in trying to secure that desperately 
 
 needed ceasefire. Now, this would be a counterproposal to what we heard from Hamas just last Thursday, when they gave their details of what they 
 
 wanted to see, according to officials and sources.
 
We understand they want between 700 and 1000 Palestinian prisoners to be released, and in return, they would release the female hostages, including 
 
 IDF soldiers, and the elderly, the sick and the wounded, assumed to be around 40 hostages. This would all be within we understand a six week 
 
 temporary ceasefire. 
 
And the hope is that that can be agreed to and if this ceasefire is agreed to most notably, it can allow more humanitarian aid in which was beyond 
 
 desperately needed. But it also gives all parties some space to be able to talk about the next steps because this was always going to be a deal that 
 
 had multiple phases. So this is still the first phase that they're working on Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Priscilla to you now, in the U.S. Biden and Netanyahu recently reconnected on the phone. It has been about a month we believe since the 
 
 last time they spoke. How unusual is that for those two leaders not to have communicated by phone in that time, especially given the volatility of the 
 
 situation in Gaza?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, starting on October 7th, they started to talk quite often. They were talking multiple times. 
 
 And now there has been more distance between those calls as this relationship has frayed. 
 
But National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan described the frequency of the calls as having to do with inflection points or having to talk in critical 
 
 moments. And right now, that critical moment is this looming invasion of Rafah. That was a priority going into the call of these two leaders held 
 
 yesterday.
 
And the situation in Rafah is dire. There are more than a million displaced Palestinians who have massed there and the president was warning the 
 
 Israeli Prime Minister that any ground operation there would be catastrophic for Palestinians. And you heard there from the National 
 
 Security Adviser Jake Sullivan that it would be a big mistake. 
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
Now, of course, the president still affirms his support for Israel. And in fact, he asked the prime minister to send a delegation of military leaders 
 
 to Washington in the coming days so they can discuss the strategic plan that is top of mind here at the White House as to what the plans are for 
 
 Israel to continue to go after Hamas. 
 
And so this is something that they have discussed at length. They discussed at length yesterday that they'll continue to discuss. I had asked the 
 
 National Security Adviser, what the tone of the conversation was, knowing that they have had this growing rift between them? And he told me it was 
 
 business like and that they ended the call mutually it didn't end abruptly. 
 
But again, it just goes to show that this has become a more tense relationship despite their decades long friendship that between President 
 
 Biden and the Israeli Prime Minister. But right now the U.S. focus is what Israel does, in Rafah knowing that there are so many civilians there that 
 
 could be caught in the crossfire if Israel were to move in?
 
NOBILO: Priscilla Alvarez at the White House and Paula Hancocks for us in Doha thank you both. Now to the escalating violence in Haiti, police say at 
 
 least 10 people were killed in an affluent residential area of Port-au- Prince on Monday. We warn you that some of the video we're about to show you is disturbing and graphic. 
 
Eyewitnesses said they saw bodies lying on the street with apparent bullet wounds. It's unclear who committed the killings, but it comes amid a surge 
 
 of gang activity in the area. CNN's David Culver was the first major network journalist on the ground in Port-au-Prince after the gang uprising 
 
 escalated. In his report, he shows us how the battle for power has turned Haiti's capital into a war zone?
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Port-au-Prince feels post- apocalyptic. This is basically the aftermath of a war zone. Driving through the battlegrounds between gangs and police we dodged massive craters and 
 
 piles of burning trash. 
 
The police controlled these roads leading to Haiti's International Airport for today at least. It's been shut for weeks. Out front checkpoints to 
 
 search for suspected gang members and an armored truck to keep watch it sits beaten and battered. 
 
Less than a month ago we flew in and out on commercial flights here. Now it's desolate. The country is in chaos, essentially held hostage by gangs 
 
 eager to expand their reign of terror. Over the weekend more businesses looted and car stolen, gangs leaving behind a scorched path of ruin. We're 
 
 headed to one of the last remaining hospital trauma centers that are still functioning in Port-au-Prince.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: February 29th was probably the worse. 
 
CULVER (voice over): And as soon as we meet one of the doctors the call comes in. 
 
CULVER: Go ahead if you need to get it. 
 
CULVER (voice over): A gunshot victim heading into surgery. He takes us to him.
 
CULVER: Most of those cases that are brought here are gunshot victims from the gang violence.
 
CULVER (voice over): With the patient's family giving us permission we go in as staff prepared to operate. We're told the 24-year-old truck driver 
 
 was caught in crossfire between police and gangs.
 
CULVER: That doctor has shown me here images that are very disturbing but they show an entry wound of a bullet basically around the -- and went right 
 
 through and caused damage to at least one eye. 
 
CULVER (voice over): The doctor tells us the man's lost vision in both eyes. Another bullet hit his arm.
 
CULVER: And so they will have to amputate his arm?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. 
 
UNIDENTIFED FEMALE: Yes.
 
CULVER (voice over): We peer into the ICU it's full.
 
CULVER: Are most of these gunshot victims?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All of them.
 
CULVER: All of them are?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She's in pain. She feels a pain in her leg.
 
CULVER: And so how did it happen? Where were you?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She was going to the market.
 
CULVER (voice over): 86-years-old a reminder no one is shielded from the violence that's gripped Haiti's capital in recent weeks. Police are 
 
 exhausted. One local commander telling me morale is broken, and that the gangs have more money and resources than they do low on ammo, their squad 
 
 cars out of gas. It is personal for the commander.
 
CULVER: He was forced out with his family from their own home. And now this is his home essentially. 
 
CULVER (voice over): The police at least in this community do have backup in the form of local residents.
 
CULVER: Do you feel like gangs are trying to move in and take this area?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, for sure. 
 
CULVER (voice over): While many community leaders call for peace they admit they're tired of feeling threatened. So much so some have created their own 
 
 checkpoints and barricades staffed 24/7 redirecting traffic and determining who comes in. Not everyone gets out. 
 
CULVER: You can see right here at this intersection. There's a massive burn pile. This is actually where the community takes justice into their own 
 
 hands that a week ago is the most recent such case. They captured four suspected gang members. 
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
They brought him here, killed them with machetes and sent their bodies on fire.
 
CULVER (voice over): The gruesome vigilante acts recorded in part as a warning to the gangs. But even amid utter turmoil, life moves forward and 
 
 within moments to celebrate outside of church, these bridesmaids excitedly awaiting their cue to walk down the aisle. Port-au-Prince is a city now 
 
 shattered by the relentless blasts of violence that have forced more than 300,000 of its residents out of their homes.
 
CULVER: Where are you staying here? Where's your home in this facility, right up there?
 
CULVER (voice over): They take refuge in places like this school, classrooms turned dorm rooms are more than 1500 people cram in. 
 
CULVER: -- showing us this is all her stuff --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's her stuff.
 
CULVER: -- able to bring and this is where she is set up right now. 
 
CULVER (voice over): In the classroom next door, we meet this woman, her husband killed by gang members. She and her five year old, like many here 
 
 have been forced to move every few weeks. We're sleeping hungry. We're in misery she tells me. We'd probably be better off dead than living this 
 
 life. 
 
CULVER: Adding to the complication for those folks is the reality that they are not only facing threats from gangs, but as they describe it to me. 
 
 They're also being ostracized from the communities in which they are now essentially camping out.
 
And they say those neighbors don't want them there. And will likewise attack them because they feel like having these refugees now within their 
 
 community is drawing the gangs' attention and potentially bringing more violence to their homes. David Culver, CNN Reporter Port-au-Prince Haiti.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: It looks like negotiators working to avert a government shutdown in the U.S. are approaching a deal. That's according to sources familiar with 
 
 the talks. However, lawmakers still face an uphill task if they want to pass the legislation before the deadline on Friday night. That is when a 
 
 number of government departments will run out of funds. If nothing is done border security key issue in these discussions.
 
I want to bring in CNN Congressional Correspondent Lauren Fox she joins us now from Washington D.C. on Capitol Hill. Lauren, it seems likely that they 
 
 are going to come to some kind of agreement. Tell us more about the mechanics of this and what can be done to come to some sort of conciliatory 
 
 phase when it's comes to the border.
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, and we actually just got some statements from Republican and Democratic leaders up here on Capitol 
 
 Hill. They have reached an agreement on DHS funding. This is funding to make sure that the Department of Homeland Security has its funding for the 
 
 next fiscal year. 
 
But despite the fact that they have reached an agreement on that very difficult agency, they have yet to finish the tax. That means that they are 
 
 certainly facing a time crunch at a moment when they are going to have a deadline coming up Friday at midnight going into Saturday.
 
And it's just not clear they're going to be able to move quickly enough here in the House and in the Senate to process this bill and avert a 
 
 shutdown all together, it's very possible they could stumble into one just because of how long this process takes to play out on the floor. 
 
Once they have text finalized, they will release it to their members. The House has what is known as a three day rule. That means members get three 
 
 days to review text of legislation before being expected to vote on it. Once that happens as early as Thursday or Friday, then the Senate will 
 
 move. 
 
But it's important to note that any one Senator can really use delay tactics to make this process run beyond the clock of Friday's midnight 
 
 deadline. So that means it's very possible that despite the fact that they have a deal, they still could stumble into the shutdown come the weekend.
 
NOBILO: Lauren Fox, thank you so much. Prince William is getting on with royal duties visiting a project to combat homelessness in the north of 
 
 England. This comes amid intense speculation about his wife, the Princess of Wales. A British tabloid has published video footage which it says shows 
 
 the Royal Couple at a farmers market over the weekend. 
 
Kate Middleton has not been seen in public since what the palace describes as a planned abdominal surgery in January in this video that you're looking 
 
 at here published by British newspaper "The Son" was supposedly taken at farm shop near Windsor Castle. 
 
Now a lack of information from the Royals has led to questions about Princess Catherine's recovery fueled in part by the release of a family 
 
 photo on Mother's Day that we learned had been edited. And now there are also doubts about editing involving a photo of the late Queen Elizabeth 
 
 with her grandchildren and great grandchildren. You're looking at the photo in question they're.
 
Now switching gears he was a top adviser to then President Donald Trump now Peter Navarro is about to become a prison inmates after he refused to 
 
 testify about the attack on the Capitol that is coming up ahead. 
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Plus, Oprah Winfrey weighs in on how medications such as Ozempic are not only helping diabetes control blood sugar, but also helping overweight and 
 
 obese people control their hunger. We have details on that straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: One of Donald Trump's top advisors when he was president is due to report to prison in the coming hours. Peter Navarro was found guilty of 
 
 contempt for refusing to cooperate with lawmakers investigating the January 6th, 2021 insurrection. 
 
Navarro will begin a four month sentence after failing to win a last minute reprieve from the Supreme Court. CNN Senior Crime and Justice Reporter 
 
 Katelyn Polantz is in Washington for us. Katelyn have we had a response from Navarro's team and tell us more about the extent to which the Supreme 
 
 Court decision was expected?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN CRIME &amp; JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, Navarro's team is saying that this is very unfair, it's a violation of separation of powers 
 
 because he was a Trump White House official at the end of the administration, that time period, where the how -- U.S. House of 
 
 Representatives sought documents and testimony about.
 
Now they wanted him to give information that he was speaking publicly about writing a memoir about related to the January 6th attack and the 2020 
 
 election things he was doing on behalf of Donald Trump the candidate, not Donald Trump, the President. 
 
But in this situation Navarro's team was trying and failing repeatedly in the court to get any traction of this separation of powers argument that he 
 
 was making. The courts just said no, he didn't have any evidence. And he missed his chances to try and claim executive privilege saying that there 
 
 should have been a bubble around him because of his role in the administration. 
 
So that's all the technical details of what's going on here. But this is a big, important moment for Congress in that they issued a subpoena to Peter 
 
 Navarro. He failed to turn over records. He failed to provide any testimony to show up for an interview. And so Congress sent it to the Justice 
 
 Department for prosecution. That prosecution was successful. 
 
And now Peter Navarro is going to prison because of his conviction by a jury in Washington D.C. last year. He is being sent to prison for four 
 
 months. He'll serve a little under that amount of time very likely. He is going to be in prison in Miami at a federal institution that is a minimum 
 
 security camp type setup. 
 
And he will be on the inside having to acclimate to this situation that is very -- it is a prison. It is not nothing -- it is not something to sneeze 
 
 at. It is an area without privacy, where he will have to have a job inside of the prison and will have much of his communications restricted or at 
 
 least kept. He can watch news on the outside though.
 
NOBILO: Katelyn Polantz, thank you so much for your reporting.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
A judge in New York will allow two high profile witnesses to testify at Trump's hush money trial which could begin next month. The former president 
 
 is accused of covering up hush money payments to adult film star Stormy Daniels just before the 2016 election.
 
Daniels has released a new documentary in which he talks about the payment and threats of violence against her. The judge will also allow former Trump 
 
 attorney and fixer Michael Cohen to testify. Trump has pleaded not guilty and denies he had an affair with Daniels.
 
Nearly eight years after the unexplained illness known as Havana syndrome first emerged is apparently still a mystery for both U.S. intelligence and 
 
 the medical community. Two new studies suggest patients who are believed to have the illness show no signs of a brain injury. 
 
It was first reported in late 2016 by U.S. diplomats stationed in Havana Cuba, who said they had symptoms consistent with head trauma. Since then, 
 
 hundreds more cases have been reported worldwide among government workers. Last year despite much speculation U.S. Intelligence said the illness was 
 
 likely not linked to any foreign adversary. 
 
Cuba's President is trying to tamp down growing unrest in the country while also blaming the U.S. for causing it. Anti-government protesters in at 
 
 least four cities gathered on Sunday angry about long power cuts and the growing scarcity of food. 
 
President Miguel Diaz-Canel says that his government is willing to hold dialogue with protesters about their complaints, but accused Cuban exiles 
 
 in Miami of stirring up protesters online and blamed U.S. sanctions for the shortages of basic goods. But U.S. officials say they have nothing to do 
 
 with the problems facing Cuba.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VEDANT PATEL, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT DEPUTY SPOKESPERSON: The United States is not behind these protests in Cuba and the acts -- the accusation of that 
 
 is absurd. I will note though since you asked we are closely following these reports. Protests across several cities in Cuba yesterday, called for 
 
 electricity, food and fundamental freedoms. 
 
I think what we are seeing is reflection of the dire situation on the island. We urge the Cuban government to refrain from violence and unjust 
 
 detentions and are calling on the authorities to respect the Cuban citizens' right to peaceful assembly.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Oprah Winfrey is getting personal again about her weight loss journey. She hosted a new special focusing on how medications designed for 
 
 diabetics such Ozempic also helping her and others control hunger and lose weight.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OPRAH WINFREY, TELEVISION HOST: I never dreamed that we would be talking about medicines that are providing hope for people like me, who have 
 
 struggled for years with being overweight or with obesity. So I come to this conversation in the hope that we can start releasing the stigma and 
 
 the shame and the judgment to stop shaming other people for being overweight or how they choose to lose or not lose weight and more 
 
 importantly, to stop shaming ourselves.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Joining me now is CNN Medical Correspondent Meg Terrell. Thanks for being here Meg. This is after this special comes after Oprah Winfrey parted 
 
 ways with Weight Watchers, which now seems self-explanatory. Tell us more about this special what was discussed and the intention behind it.
 
MEG TERRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: You know this was really seemingly very personal to Oprah. She talked a lot about how there has been such a 
 
 focus throughout her long career in television on her size, and it got emotional at times. Here's another clip from her opening of the special 
 
 last night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WINFREY: I have to say that I took on the shame that the world gave to me. For 25 years, making fun of my weight was national sport in an effort to 
 
 combat all the shame I starved myself for nearly five months and then wheeled out that wagon of fat that the internet will never let me forget. 
 
 And after losing 67 pounds on liquid diet the next day, y'all the very next day, I started to gain it back.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TERRELL: So Oprah talked a lot about her struggles over time with trying to lose weight. She also talked with a lot of the guests she had on this 
 
 special about that shame and about trying to do that unsuccessfully for so long. You know you mentioned Weight Watchers. 
 
She did have a partnership with them. She joined the board in 2015. She bought a big stake in the company. She was involved in marketing for the 
 
 company. She said at the end of last year that she had started taking one of these new weight loss medications. 
 
She didn't say which brand name but it seems like one of the new class of drugs that everybody's talking about right now. And then just last month 
 
 she said she was leaving the Board of Weight Watchers and donating the proceeds from her stake to charity. 
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
And she said last night she was doing that because she wanted to do this special without any perceived conflicts of interest. I did hear though some 
 
 feedback from people in both in the medical space and just sort of general social media that this special really kind of seemed like an infomercial 
 
 for the drug makers making these medicines.
 
At the same time some folks who really liked this special said it was great that Oprah shed more of a light on the blaming and shaming that goes along 
 
 here.
 
NOBILO: Yeah, Meg let's talk more about the fact that it could have been interpreted as an infomercial, the main message obviously heavily in favor 
 
 of these relatively new medicines like Ozempic and vis-a-vis. But there are some side effects tell us about those and also the extent to which we can 
 
 even know at this stage, the long term effects that they have on the body.
 
TERRELL: Yeah, so this class of medicines, both the pharmaceutical industry and doctors unaffiliated with the pharmaceutical industry will tell you 
 
 they have been around for about 15 years. So there is a body of data understanding essentially how they work. 
 
However, millions and millions of people are taking these drugs. Generally, the side effects are tolerability issues, nausea, vomiting, things like 
 
 that. And that can be really difficult for a lot of people. There was one person featured last night on this special who talked about that and how it 
 
 became intolerable for her to continue taking the medicines. 
 
There are some more serious side effects. They are rare, but they can happen. So that's why doctors emphasize you had to take these with medical 
 
 supervision. They are powerful medicines. Another big issue with them, of course, is that they are so expensive. They can cost $1,000 per month 
 
 before insurance depending on which one you're taking. 
 
There you can see the four newest ones in this class two are for Type-2 diabetes, two are for weight loss. And what we see in terms of employer 
 
 provided insurance coverage is that coverage for Type-2 diabetes is much more widespread than coverage for obesity or for weight loss. So it can be 
 
 very difficult for a lot of people to afford these drugs.
 
NOBILO: Meg Terrell thanks so much for joining us and having that discussion.
 
TERRELL: Thank you. 
 
NOBILO: Still to come, it can alter everything from photos to videos and writing to art. So how will artificial intelligence impact the future of 
 
 the economy? A top economist speaks exclusively to CNN about his predictions. And we all want a humanoid robot to help us with our daily 
 
 chores, but who teaches them what they need to know? Our new technology show "Decoded" finds out.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
NOBILO: Wall Street has just kicked off Tuesday's trading day with the CEO of one of the world's largest beauty companies opening by ringing the bell. 
 
 Investors are on fed watch as the U.S. Central Bank starts its two day meeting, we'll find out what Jerome Powell and Co have to say about 
 
 interest rate rates on Wednesday?
 
Now I am Bianca Nobilo in London, and you're watching "Connect the World" if you didn't know. Goldman Sachs Chief Economist wants one that toxic 
 
 mortgages would ignite a recession. And he was right. Then when many feared a recession in the U.S. at the end of 2022 he instead predicted a soft 
 
 landing. He was right again. 
 
Now he's taking a more optimistic bet on artificial intelligence and how the technology will impact the American economy. To chat about those CNN's 
 
 Matt Egan is here. He sat down for an exclusive one-on-one interview with and has two years. And he joins us now live from New York. 
 
So Matt, he was bullish about AI or definitely optimistic about it. What are the key elements that he believes in? And I'm curious as to where he 
 
 thinks the job growth opportunities will be?
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Bianca Hatzius as you mentioned, is really one of the most closely watched economists on Wall Street. And yes, it is 
 
 because he's nailed a few big calls, including predicting the soft landing for the U.S. economy when a lot of people thought a recession was 
 
 inevitable. 
 
And so I did ask Hatzius about AI, specifically, whether or not it's going to be a job killer, or a job creator. And he basically said, bull, but he's 
 
 really optimistic that in the long run, it's going to be positive for the economy, because it's gonna make all of us workers more efficient, take a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAN HATZIUS, CHIEF ECONOMIST, GOLDMAN SACHS: It will destroy employment in some areas. I mean, there will be parts of the labor market, where -- you 
 
 know, where tasks can be replaced to a -- to a degree that is going to result in reduced employment there. 
 
But then you will also find other ways of -- you know innovating and creating more jobs somewhere else. I mean, this is the story of economic 
 
 growth and innovation for hundreds of years, how that -- how that balance is going to work out in the short term? I think it's difficult to say. But 
 
 we have a much more confident is that it can significantly add to growth over time by basically boosting productivity growth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
EGAN: Now, Goldman Sachs is so confident that it's going to boost productivity, that the bank actually upgraded its long term GDP forecast 
 
 for the United States in large part because of AI. Bianca, you asked about which jobs are most ripe for disruption. 
 
And the thinking is that blue collar jobs are the safer ones, and that the white collar jobs in offices, some of them really are the ones most exposed 
 
 to AI disruption. But this is all moving really fast. And there's a lot of unknown still here, Bianca,
 
NOBILO: It is moving at lightning speed. And meanwhile, others are still warning about the potential negative impacts of AI. Obviously, not 
 
 everybody sees it, like he does. And that includes the IMF, what can you tell us about those chief concerns?
 
EGAN: Well, the IMF has warned that perhaps almost 40 percent of jobs around the world could be affected by AI. And the IMF is saying listen, 
 
 this could be a problem, because it's going to make inequality worse. And they're urging governments around the world to ramp up their worker -- re-
 
 training programs, and their social safety nets. 
 
But there is a lot of debate over how many of those jobs are going to be sort of supplemented by AI? And how many could actually just be wiped out. 
 
 I don't know that anyone actually knows the answer. But listen, anyone who's played around with some of these AI chatbot tools, is got to be 
 
 impressed because they can already do pretty amazing things. 
 
I mean, as it is it's easy to see how it could help workers become more productive by -- you know helping them write emails and craft a PowerPoint 
 
 presentations, do research, brainstorm ideas. They can even comb through vast amounts of data to identify specific patterns. 
 
The IRS and the Treasury Department here, the United States, they're both using AI to try to fight financial crime and find tax cheats. But of 
 
 course, there are still a lot of problems with AI including bias and the fact that some of these chatbot tools they have the tendency to sort of 
 
 make stuff up to hallucinate. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
So let's and clearly a lot still needs to be worked through on the AI front. But it is easy to see how it's going to have a big impact on the 
 
 economy? Hopefully, Bianca that impact is as positive as Goldman Sachs thinks it will be.
 
NOBILO: Let's hope thank you so much, Matt, for joining us.
 
EGAN: Thank you.
 
NOBILO: Today Matt Egan there for us. Now, let's take you up to speed on some other stories that are on our radar right now. It's been billed as a 
 
 historic ship by Japan's Central Bank and that's because it's moving away from negative interest rates and announcing its first interest rate rise in 
 
 17 years. 
 
Analysts say Japan's fragile economic recovery means the BOJ would probably continue to go slowly with any further rise in borrowing costs. Russian 
 
 President Vladimir Putin will travel to China in May for talks with Xi Jinping. That's according to Reuters, which cites several sources familiar 
 
 with the matter. 
 
The trip could be Mr. Putin's first overseas trip of his new presidential term which has just become official. China has congratulated him on his re-
 
 election while Western governments say it was undemocratic. Still to come for you, Argentina's football fans were excited to see him but Lionel Messi 
 
 will miss out on the next game details in our sports update.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (voice over): The race is commercialized humanoid is heating up. And 1X Technologies is one of the biggest players backed by 
 
 Open AI, the company raised over $125 million in less than a year. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you think of Eve as a child sometimes that you've created?
 
BERNT OVIND BORNICH, CEO &amp; FOUNDER, 1X: To some extent? Yes. I mean, --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Your success is her success. 
 
BORNICH: It is.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): This robot called Eve is available on the market today. But only a handful have been sold. Eve learns and practices a 
 
 variety of tasks here. So I'm going to teach it something new with the help of 1X's Founder and CEO. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Becoming a robot this is so exciting. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): I start by putting on a headset and grabbing these controllers, which let me move Eve around and play through 
 
 it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh.
 
BORNICH: No, no, no, no, no. That's fine. Oh,
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I should have told you I'm not a good driver of anything OK. I'm going to this box, right?
 
BORNICH: Yeah. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Operating as Eve I perform the task so that the robots can gather data about it.
 
BORNICH: There you go.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh.
 
BORNICH: Oh man. Well, you said you weren't good at this. Now we're going to do this like 15 times.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): Next to data we collected from this specific Eve is transferred to the entire fleets' artificial intelligence 
 
 server.
 
BORNICH: So here we have picking up socks. We can tell our AI that that's what they're doing right. So you say like, play sock.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And you say every time it happened just so that it remembered that that is what.
 
BORNICH: That is what you're doing. 
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
Our mission is really to the sign androids that can help create labor in human spaces so that we all have time to enjoy life.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Around the world there are huge sectors of populations that are low income and rely on common tasks.
 
BORNICH: Oh, there's clearly a concern. It is more of a really a political question than really a technology question. Because if you can take all 
 
 labor and automate it, we can all have everything we want. But this only happens if we regulate this in the right manner. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice over): With wheels for feet and pitchers the hands Eve looks physically simple. That's why 1X is now developing Neo with 
 
 legs and fingers. Several other companies that working on similar humanoids, meaning that it's likely just a matter of time before we start 
 
 seeing them beyond training facilities, and out in the real world.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Lionel Messi is known for his speed on the football pitch and his punishing left foot. Sadly, the Argentinian player will not be scoring 
 
 goals for his country this March and will miss the friendlies against El Salvador and Costa Rica. So Amanda Davies joins me now to discuss this. And 
 
 of course, we'll be back with "World Sport" in just a couple of minutes to get into this further. But tell us give us a taste what is keeping him off 
 
 the pitch?
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, struggled with his hamstring. He went off in his MLS game into -- Miami against Nashville a week or so ago. And 
 
 basically, they've decided not to risk him for these friendlies, which perhaps isn't a surprise that 36 years of age is at that point in his 
 
 career where he's managing himself and his body. 
 
But interestingly, this run of international games that we're seeing, will bring to an end the most incredible record Antoine Griezmann for France has 
 
 played 84 straight international matches for his country. So he has been ruled out with injury having picked up for Atletico Madrid his club side 
 
 this will be the first time since November 2016 that he will not be lining up for France when the opportunity has riven -- arisen. 
 
It is quite something but the good news is we've got plenty to talk about that is happening in "World Sports" in just a couple of minutes a huge 
 
 night of Women's Champions League action and that's where we are going to be going next in a couple of minutes.
 
NOBILO: Fantastic. Stay tuned for that. We'll be right back after a short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END