Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Government Shutdown Looms After Trump Tanks Bipartisan Funding Deal; Soon, CEO Murder Suspect Luigi Mangione Heads Back to Court; Authorities Say, Teen Shooter was in Contact With California Man Who Told Her That He Planned to Attack Government Building. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired December 19, 2024 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:00]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  So, what the Musk? President-elect Trump's billionaire friend torpedoes a key effort by Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson. Now, both a government shutdown and the speaker's job hang in the balance, and it could all unfold right here before our eyes.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR:  And breaking this morning, we're watching and waiting for suspected CEO killer Luigi Mangione as he heads back to court. Decision there could mean Mangione is whisked back to New York as soon as today to face first-degree murder charges.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR:  California declares a state of emergency over the bird flu. H5N1 spreading in that state, and the CDC announces the first confirmed severe human case of bird flu reported in Louisiana.
 
I'm Kate Bolduan with Sara Sidner and John Berman. This is CNN News Central.
 
BERMAN:  All right, buckle up. This morning we have kneecapping, backstabbing, name calling, and holiday cheers. The possibility of a government shutdown in your stocking, the possibility that Mike Johnson could be tweeted out of the speakership, Merry freaking Christmas, everyone.
 
Just to bring you up to speed, this is what happened. The Republican House speaker, Mike Johnson, forged a deal, his deal, a Republican-led deal, to keep the government operating, to fund things like disaster relief and to avoid a shutdown and to do it before the holidays. But Elon Musk did not like it. He called it one of the worst bills ever written. Then, perhaps relatedly, President-elect Trump announced he did not like it, calling it a nasty trap. Now he says he wants a new deal, in some ways with less, in some ways with more, but in all ways, not done. And the clock is ticking. And as far as we can tell, no one knows where this is headed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
J.D. VANCE, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT:   We're in the middle of these negotiations, but I think we'll be able to solve some problems here and we'll keep working on it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  All right. Let's get right to CNN's Sunlen Serfaty on Capitol Hill for the beginning of what will be an eventful day, Sunlen.
 
SUNLEN SERFATY, CNN WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT:  It certainly will, John. And things are frankly not in a good place right here on Capitol Hill right now. The funding bill, as you noted, is dead. And as of now, there has not been a new plan revealed by Speaker Johnston. And the next steps, frankly, are very unclear at this hour. And all of this is unfolding, all this drama and chaos unfolding on Capitol Hill just one day before a potential government shutdown on Friday night when the clock strikes 12:01 into Saturday morning.
 
So, that only adding to the tension up here, and certainly leaders today will be attempting to navigate themselves out of what one lawmaker described as a mess up here on Capitol Hill after President- elect Trump really dropped a bomb on the deal, blew it up in the last minute, at the 11th hour, making many demands, including tying the debt limit to government funding, no small task, many lawmakers up here freely admit.
 
Now, the leaders were huddling with J.D. Vance late into the evening last night and emerged from that meeting. Very clear that there is no agreement yet, no clarity on the way forward. Here's what House Majority Leader Steve Scalise said leaving that meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  How do things get so sideways with the president-elect? He came out and this is a deal that you guys cut. And the president-elect is --
 
REP. STEVE SCALISE (R-LA):  We're working with he and the Vice President to address some of the things -- he wants to start the presidency on a sound footing. And we want him to as well. Hopefully, tomorrow. We got to see.
 
A lot of things have come up. You know, President Trump is going to be the president of the United States and we're excited about it.
 
REPORTER:  Did he join your meeting? Did he (INAUDIBLE) on the phone?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SERFATY:  So, the big question here is what happens next up here on Capitol Hill. Well, today will certainly be critical as they try to pick up these pieces. As we now know, at 9:00 A.M., in just two hours, House Democrats will be huddling trying to chart out their path forward here, and they do have a key role to play here, John.
 
You know, Speaker Johnson, he cannot risk in these latest forms of negotiations, jeopardizing any Democrats. He needs them to potentially get whatever this new plan is over the finish line.
 <br>[07:05:01]
 
And Democrats have already signaled that they're very unwilling to compromise after they spent months and months with Speaker Johnson and Republicans negotiating that last deal that ultimately got blown up. John?
 
BERMAN:  Let's see what people are saying. I mean, this has the feel of being full on out of control. So, what does it all mean for Mike Johnson and his reelection for speaker, which is weeks away?
 
SERFATY:  That's right. That's a great question. That's only about 15 days away where he faces a very real deadline of his own potentially to continue his reign as a speaker of the House. And there has been a lot of frustration as how he's operated thus far, and especially given how this potentially works out. A lot of members are watching how this works out and his role here of people out there pushing forward. John?
 
BERMAN:  All right. It will be something. Great to have you up there for this, Sunlen. Thank you very much. Sara?
 
SIDNER:  All right. We are standing by at this hour for accused CEO killer Luigi Mangione to make his next court appearance, where he's expected to waive extradition to New York. In just over an hour, the man suspected of gunning down UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, will leave the Pennsylvania prison. He's being held in now and appear before a judge.
 
The last time we saw Mangione, you will remember this, police had to force him into court. You see him there having a dramatic outburst.
 
Now, if extradition is approved, as soon as this morning, the NYPD could transport him to New York, where he could be arraigned later today.
 
Let's get right to Danny Freeman outside court in Pennsylvania. Walk us through this hearing this morning. This is not just about the extradition. There are other things that are up for debate.
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  And that's absolutely right, Sara. But before I get to that, let me just start this way. On this normally sleepy street in Hollidaysburg Pennsylvania, it is absolutely teeming with press this morning, really, as far as the eye can see in both directions. There's also a large law enforcement presence. We've seen state police troopers, we've seen local police, they've started closing down streets, again, all in anticipation of those two hearings in just over an hour for Luigi Mangione here in the courthouse behind me.
 
So, let's go through what we're expecting to see this morning. The first hearing is at 8:30. That's a preliminary hearing for those lesser Pennsylvania charges. To remind folks, it's two felonies, including a gun charge and then three misdemeanors stemming from when they picked up Mangione at that Altoona McDonald's not far from here. Then he's on to face that much more serious extradition hearing right after that first one. Now, this hearing is still on as of now. But as you noted, Sara, CNN's Kara Scannell reporting that his defense attorney said that he is anticipating not to fight this extradition, which means, like you noted, he could be on his way back to New York as soon as this morning or perhaps later this afternoon.
 
Sara, I do want to note that we actually have some updated information when it comes to the outside world's attempts to interact with Mangione behind bars. Yesterday, we told you that as of, I guess, on Tuesday evening, he had received a few dozen emails and about six handwritten letters. Well, we got more information yesterday afternoon that, as of yesterday afternoon, Mangione has received upwards of 53 letters since he's been in prison. Still about 158 deposits into his prison commissary account.
 
But this is interesting, Sara, still no visitors except for his attorneys. However, we also learned last night through sources that the Mangione family are the ones who actually hired that high powered New York defense attorney to represent him again in those New York charges that he ultimately will likely face.
 
So, again, Sara, quite a scene here as we have New York press, Pennsylvania press and national media all over this courthouse. This is the line to get into court at 8:00 A.M. behind me, which I'll be on in just a little bit of time. This chapter of the Pennsylvania story might be over soon, but, again, the next step potentially heading to New York after this extradition hearing. Sara?
 
SIDNER:  The public is highly interested in this story. The press is there to cover it. Danny Freeman. Thank you so much. Things look like they could be moving very fast, depending on what the judge decides. I appreciate it. Kate?
 
BOLDUAN:  So, also breaking overnight, the investigation into the Wisconsin school shooting is turned its focus somewhat to California. The communications that the teenage shooter reportedly had with a 20- year-old man there and their talk about planning mass casualty attacks.
 
And a verdict in a case that shocked the world, the Frenchman sentenced alongside 50 other men for the mass rape of his own wife.
 
And some Amazon workers are going on strike today while thousands of workers are walking off the job and the impact that's about to have on holiday deliveries.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:10:00]
 
BOLDUAN:  So this morning, there are new details coming in about the investigation into the Wisconsin school shooting, what the 15-year-old was doing before she gunned down her own classmates and teachers. Two of them were killed. So, now authorities say that the teen brought two guns to the school Monday. They also say that she had been in contact with a 20-year-old man in California. According to a newly released restraining order, he allegedly told her that he was planning an attack on a government building.
 
Also learning more about the victims, the two people who were killed now identified, 42-year-old Erin Michelle West was a loved teacher, and the student who was murdered was just 14 years old, Rubi Vergara.
 <br>[07:05:01]
 
CNN's Whitney Wild is in Madison with the very latest on this investigation. And if we could start first In California, what's this connection?
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Kate, what our understanding is based on our affiliate reporting from San Diego is that this man had been in contact with Natalie Rupnow. And FBI agents learned about this as they were investigating the shooting here. And what they've determined, Kate, and what, according to our CBS affiliate, this man admitted during an interview with FBI agents, is that he had planned and had told Rupnow that he was going to arm himself with explosives and a gun and that he would target a government building.
 
At this point, Kate, this is a civil matter, not a criminal matter. He's under a gun violence protective order, and what that allows law enforcement in California to do is take away his guns as they continue to investigate this case, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes. And can you focus also more on what we're learning about the victims? We now have their identities, the two that were killed. What more are you learning?
 
WILD:  Well, this is obviously, you know, a heart wrenching moment for this community, this very, very close community, Kate, generations of families sending their kids to this school. And what we've learned is that that teacher, 42-year-old Erin West, was just adored by her students, and that Rubi Vergara, just 14 years old, a freshman here, was an avid reader. She was full of artistic promise. She came from a large, loving family. And so these are just tremendous losses.
 
Last night, we spoke with one student who told us about Erin West. Here's what she said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACKYNZIE WILSON, STUDENT AT ABUNDANT LIFE CHRISTIAN SCHOOL:  She really loved her kids, and she really loved everyone at our school. And she would have done anything for them.
 
Looking back, I wish I had gone -- I could have gone back and given her a hug.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILD:  Kate, there's a memorial set up here outside the school. Again, this is just a tremendous loss as this community looks for new ways to heal.
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes, they've got a long way to go. Whitney, thank you so much. Sara?
 
SIDNER:  All right. The first severe case of the bird flu in the U.S., a person in Louisiana has been affected. And the spread of bird flu has another state declaring a state of emergency.
 
Also down, down, down goes the Dow and another rate cut from the Federal Reserve does nothing to help. It's marked its longest losing streak since Gerald Ford was president. What you need to know about the flood (ph).
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:20:00]
 
SIDNER:  Right now, fears of the spread of bird flu taking hold across the country. California has now declared a state of emergency to confront a bird flu outbreak spreading among dairy cows there. The announcement comes as the U.S. sees its first severe human case of the illness in Louisiana.
 
There is no person to person spread detected so far. Officials say the patient was hospitalized after coming in contact with sick and dead birds on their property.
 
CNN's Meg Tirrell has details for us. This is concerning. What are health officials looking at here?
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Sara. So, I mean, it's concerning on multiple levels from California. They declared that state of emergency really because of the spread and dairy cattle. They've had it really widespread across herds in the state, but it was essentially confined to Central California. We read in the emergency order from Governor Gavin Newsom yesterday, and he noted that a couple weeks ago that was now detected in Southern California herds as well. So, that's spreading sort of regionally across the state. They're very concerned there. So, this emergency order in California, they say, really freeze up resources and flexibility to try to better address that faster.
 
But, of course, we do have this now first severe human case of bird flu reported in Louisiana. This is a patient who has been hospitalized with severe respiratory illness. They are in critical condition. They were exposed through a backyard flock of sick and dead birds. And this is really the first exposure we know about, the first case that was gotten that way in the United States. We also know this patient is over the age of 65 and does have underlying medical conditions that increase their risk of being vulnerable to complications from flu.
 
We also know something about this case. This is a strain that has been found in wild birds mostly. It's different from the strain that's found in dairy cattle. So, that's something folks are paying close attention to as well. This is one of 61 human cases that have been confirmed in the U.S., and as noted, it's the first severe case that's been found here in the United States, Sara.
 
SIDNER:  Just give us some context here with 61 cases. I mean, did the CDC say this changes the risk level for bird flu?
 
TIRRELL:  You know what? Right now, they're saying that it doesn't change its overall assessment for the immediate rest of the public's health, which they say remains low. As you pointed out, there is no noted person to person spread. That is a huge thing at this moment since we haven't seen that. This is not escalating the risk level for the general population.
 
They do note, though, that the first time we're seeing somebody get infected from a backyard flock, that really reinforces the need to be careful if you have backyard flocks or if you're otherwise a bird enthusiast or a hunter, if you're coming into contact with wild animals, this is really something folks should be aware of.
 
In addition, when we think about raw milk, for example, that is not something that public health authorities recommend people drink. Pasteurization inactivates the virus. So, that's really important, too. Sara?
 
SIDNER:  Meg Tirrell, all good advice, thank you so much. I appreciate it. John?
 
BERMAN:  First billionaire and buddy Elon Musk successfully launches his first congressional coup.
 <br>[07:25:02]
 
Now, House Speaker Mike Johnson might need a Christmas miracle to keep his job.
 
And we do have breaking news this morning. A man has been found guilty of drugging and orchestrating the mass rape of his wife by 70 different men over 200 times.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN:  So, this morning, we have a new report on the swirling legal issues around President-elect Trump, ones that will not go away once he takes office in a few weeks.
 <br>[07:30:00]
 
CNN Crime and Justice Correspondent Katelyn Polantz is with us now. And we're talking about the civil cases here, Katelyn.