Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia: Death Toll In Terror Attack On Concert Hall Rises To 137; Trump Has Until Tomorrow To Post $464m Bond In NY Fraud Case; House Dems Would Vote To Save Speaker Johnson If He Outlines Path To Pass Aid For Ukraine; Gaza Ministry Of Health: 84 People Killed In Gaza This Weekend; Harris: IDF Military Operation In Rafah "Would Be A Mistake"; Trump Has Just One Day Left To Get $464m Bond. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired March 24, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
FAREED ZAKARIA, CNN HOST: This all sounds grim but looking back at the World Happiness Report, there is a sliver of hope. 
 
Central and Eastern European countries have the opposite profile of North America. People under 30 there came to be much happier than people over 60. 
 
That trend is particular in Muslim (ph) countries like Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia. One possible reason, young people didn't have to live through the war and strife that accompanied the breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. They are happy because they came of age in comparative peace. It suggests that out of even the ugliest history, hope can be born.
 
Let that inspire all of us to work toward a better future for young people especially all over the world.
 
Thanks to all of you for being part of my program this week. I will see you next week.
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello everyone. thank you so much for joining me this Sunday. 
 
I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
The countdown is on for Donald Trump, the former president is just hours away from two major legal threats colliding in New York. Tomorrow is the deadline for him to post a nearly half-billion-dollar bond in his New York civil fraud case. 
 
His attorneys have asked an appeals court to allow him to post a smaller bond or none at all. But the court has not reached a decision yet. 
 
On Friday, Trump claimed he has the cash to cover the bill. But his lawyer later told CNN that Trump doesn't actually have that much cash on hand. Meanwhile, New York's attorney general has already filed judgments in Westchester County and New York City where Trump owned properties. The first indication the state is prepared to seize his assets if he can't pay up. 
 
This all playing out as Trump is expected to appear in a New York courtroom tomorrow as well, where a judge may set a date for his hush money trial involving a $130,000 payment to adult film star Stormy Daniels. More on that in a minute. 
 
Meanwhile, multiple Democratic sources tell CNN that House Democrats are willing to save Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson's job if he outlines a path to securing Ukraine aid. Johnson's under fire from the so-called MAGA wing of the party, namely Georgia Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has filed a motion to oust him. She hasn't forced a vote -- a vote on it instead leaving the threat hanging over Johnson's head.
 
All right. We'll have more on that in a moment. 
 
We're also getting new details in that horrific terror attack on a Russian court -- a Russian concert hall rather. Today we got our first look at some of the suspects arrested by police.
 
New videos showing the suspects blindfolded, as you see there, and brought into Russia's investigative committee for questioning. And it comes after ICE has posted a graphic video purportedly showing its members' ruthless rampage. CNN is choosing not to show that video.
 
Russia says the death toll has now risen to 137 including three children. Today is a national day of mourning across the country.
 
CNN's Matthew Chance is in Moscow for us. So Matthew, you visited a memorial set up near the scene of that attack. How are people there reacting to all of this? 
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, actually it seems like almost every month is a floral memorial for somebody who's died or been killed in Russia. And this is the latest one that we went to. It was a vast laying of flowers with thousands of people that have turned out on the outskirts of Moscow, just outside this, this Crocus City Hall, the big conference center and concert venue and shopping mall as well where that rampage took place on Friday night.
 
the latest death toll from official figures is 137 people. They've identified as dead or that have been killed. A lot more have been injured. But rescue workers and emergency teams are still going through the debris in the building, which is still sealed off. 
 
It was burned down, essentially by the attackers who used incendiary bombs, petrol bombs, or something like that to set it ablaze. And they're still finding more bodies and so the expectation is unfortunately the death toll is likely to rise. 
 
But, you know, for a country that is already engaged in a brutal war with Ukraine next door. And according to western estimates, is losing or has lost hundreds of thousands of people in that -- in that conflict, dead and injured. This is yet another sort of threat of insecurity that people weren't anticipating. 
 
I mean Russia has a long-standing problem with terrorism. It's been affected by terrorist attacks in the past, but not for years has something of this scale affected the people of Moscow. And it's come as a real -- a real shock to them. 
 <br>[14:05:00]
 
CHANCE: And that's what many people were telling me that they're very frightened and insecure at the moment given the reemergence of this terrorist threat in the country, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: And then Matthew, what are officials willing to say about the investigation into the attack? How it happened, the planning, the people involved.
 
CHANCE: Yes. Well, of course, ISIS or a branch of ISIS has claimed responsibility for this. They put out some incredibly disturbing video which I think you mentioned of the attack underway being formed by one of the attackers themselves. 
 
We're not showing that video, but we have seen other video which was taken by onlookers and innocent people on their cell phones as this attack went through, the concert venue and people were simply shot at almost point-blank range. 
 
The Russian prosecutors and investigators who are looking at this, and it's a nationwide effort remember, are saying they've arrested 11 people so far including the four suspects, the four people they suspect of being the gunman in the rampage. 
 
And there's been some really grisly pictures on Russian television and on Russian linked, Russian government links, social media channels basically showing these individuals being interrogated. 
 
They're bloodied, they're tied up. You know, one of them is shown confessing to carrying out the attack. He said he did it for money, but obviously he's is under an enormous amount or duress.
 
The Russian President Vladimir Putin has appeared on national television outraged as you'd expect him to be vowing revenge for what he called a barbaric act. 
 
But he's also tried to implicate Ukraine in this by saying that look, these people were arrested as they're heading towards Ukraine and that's something that, that idea is something that the Ukrainian government have pushed back hard against saying this has absolutely nothing to do with us, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: And Matthew, you spoke to a number of people about their concerns. Let's listen now to some of them. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I feel terrible about all the violence that's exists in our world.
 
CHANCE: Yes, in our world. And in Russia as well. Do you feel -- do you feel safe in Russia? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, I think so not today because of this attack. Can be in every country. And I think that it is a problem of all.
 
CHANCE: Yes.
 
Do you feel safe in Russia now? Do you still feel safe for -- there's just so many things happening. You feel a bit more insecure. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know, I don't know how to answer that question properly. But I -- all I can say is that terrorist attacks, they're well -- they're a worldwide problem so this topic -- well, it's not safe for few when there are terrorist in the whole world. 
 
So I should say, well this is -- 
 
CHANCE: This is part of a broader, broader problem.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, yes, yes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So Matthew, there were some reluctance and some candor. What else did they tell you? 
 
CHANCE: Yes. Well, I mean look, they are saying, look, this happens all over the world and they're right about that. And obviously it doesn't -- would make anybody feel secure. 
 
But I think there's a -- there's a particular problem in Russia, which is that Vladimir Putin is just over a week since he was elected to his fifth presidential term. One of the main reasons that people say they like Vladimir Putin is that he's a guarantor of security in the country.
 
But if you look at Russia now, it looks more insecure, more unstable, more volatile than at any time for years. I mean you know, we've got the war in Ukraine, as I mentioned, and there's like regular drone attacks and cross-border attacks from the Ukrainians into those areas just inside Russia.
 
Oil refineries have been hit hard by drone strikes. We saw the death of Alexey Navalny last month and the thousands of people turn out and paying their respects to the prominent opposition leader and attendees. His funeral as well.
 
And you know, now this terrorism threat has reared its head once again as well. And so it's just yet another security and stability challenge facing the Kremlin.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. 
 
Matthew Chance, thank you so much from Moscow. All right. Still to come, House Democrats willing to vote in droves to save Mike Johnson's speakership on condition that he agrees to a pathway to approve Ukraine aid.
 
And later, Senator Lisa Murkowski done with Donald Trump. Hear what she told CNN about her potential future.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:14:20]
 
WHITFIELD: It's just hours away from two major legal threats colliding in New York. Tomorrow is the deadline for him to post a nearly half- billion-dollar bond in his New York civil fraud case. 
 
His attorneys have asked an appeals court to allow him to post a smaller bond or none at all. But the court has not reached a decision yet. On Friday, Trump claimed he has the cash to cover the bill, but his lawyer later told CNN that Trump does not actually have that cash on hand.
 
WHITFIELD: Joining me right now to talk about this is Jocelyn Nager. She is the president of Frank, Frank, Goldstein and Nager and a New York attorney who specializes in debt collection and commercial litigation. Jocelyn, great to see you 
 <br>[14:15:00]
 
JOCELYN NAGER, PRESIDENT, FRANK, FRANK, GOLDSTEIN AND NAGER: Thank you so much. Nice to be with you.
 
WHITFIELD: Wonderful. So if Trump cannot pay the bond tomorrow of the New York attorney general is poised to start taking action. Bank accounts would be frozen first, right? So how quickly does that happen after say close of day? 
 
NAGER: Oh, really depends upon the method in which, or the speed in which you serve your subpoenas on the bench. If you wanted, to if the attorney general wanted to, she could issue an execution to the marshal and he could levy on the bank probably the same day. 
 
Doesn't necessarily have to be a bank. It could be a brokerage account or other assets. She's not restricted solely to the bank accounts.
 
WHITFIELD: So after the bank accounts, if that ends up being her order of business, then there would also be included in all of this personal effects, right? Like art, it could be a potentially seized -- you mentioned Marshal's Office. So it sounds like it's like an eviction.
 
Marshals are there but in the case of seizing property, would you have residents or occupants that could not be there in the way during that seizure? 
 
NAGER: Oh no. The marshal and the sheriff will not break in or enter anyone's home. It's not as sensational as that really. And (INAUDIBLE) is special really special asset that needs to be and stuff. What, general -- the judge -- generally, what creditors go after something that's easier to sell to season to sell. So it could be property, it could be other assets, it could be interest in an LLC. It could be money that is owed to the judgment debtor there is any of them, a levy can be made on someone who owes the money to the judgment debtors and that money could then be redirected to satisfy the state's judgment. 
 
WHITFIELD: Ok. And then the other tier in what would be considered the assets, the attorney general, you know, has already made some judgment filings in Westchester County which is where Trumps Seven Springs estate, his golf courses are. 
 
So he of course does have Manhattan property and Trump Tower and at least -- and at 40 Wall Street among others. So would Westchester properties be targeted first among properties as part of his assets? 
 
NAGER: So I can't say first, I think there'll be a multi-faceted approach. I think that the attorney general will go ahead and go after several different types of assets at once. 
 
I don't think she'll just go after one, see what happens with that and then go on to the next. I think she'll hit quite a few of them in time. 
 
The judgment, the New York County judgment could be then docketed as a lien in any of the other counties or in other words call the other counties, where property would be on by the judgment debtors. 
 
WHITFIELD: Ok. And of course, this is all following his not meeting bond. Trump, you know, he's got wealthy friends. I mean, they could come to the rescue and he might be able to, you know, have the cash. But in the meantime, you know, Trump's attorneys are also asking for leniency in the cash demand or, you know, a delay or no cash at all. Can the judge avoid responding to these things tomorrow 
 
I really don't know to tell you the truth. I think that decision will be made by the court tomorrow. So we'll have to just wait and hear what the judge decides. 
 
WHITFIELD: Do you see this, since this is your area of expertise, is this being handled just like any other situation in which assets would be seized if a cash bond wasn't met? Or do you see things playing out differently because of the person at hand, the former president.
 
NAGER: well I think that the attorney general was directed to stay execution for 30 days. Normally, when you enter a judgment, creditor hands a judgment and they entered judgment, they can execute immediately. They need not wait 30 days.
 
So here, just the granting of the additional time was a special circumstance and extended to the former president. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Jocelyn Nager, great to see you. Thank you so much. NAGER: Thank you very much. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Now back to Capitol Hill, where multiple Democratic sources tell CNN that House Democrats are willing to save Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson's job if he outlines a path to securing Ukraine aid. 
 <br>[14:20:00]
 
WHITFIELD: Johnson's under fire from the so-called MAGA wing of the party, namely Georgia Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has filed a motion to oust him. She hasn't forced a vote on it, instead leaving the threat hanging over Johnson's head. 
 
Manu Raju has the latest from Capitol Hill, Manu. 
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey Fred. Democrats are weighing whether they should save Mike Johnson's job as Speaker. This is different than what happened in the fall when Kevin McCarthy became the first beaker ever to be ousted by his own colleagues on a vote on the House floor. 
 
Why is it different this time? Aid to Ukraine that is so key to many Democrats in the House has been stalled for months because of GOP divisions over this issue. And this comes at a critical time for Ukraine in its war against Russia. 
 
They say to me, a number of them I spoke to the last several days, Johnson must outline a path to move ahead on Ukraine aid, try to detail, how he would plan to get that into law. If he does, they would vote to essentially keep him in the position. 
 
Now, there's different approaches to Ukraine aid, which could complicate things. There's a Senate passed version that most Democrats in the House want. Johnson has not been in favor of that. There's a separate bipartisan bill emerging in the House that some Democrats aren't happy about that.
 
But many of them are being clear to me. Johnson must move on Ukraine before they will consider voting to save him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. ABIGAIL SPANBERGER (D-VA): If he does the responsible thing, which is allowing members of Congress to vote on a bill that will pass and that is in our national security interests. And then subsequent to that, a nonserious actor who doesn't want to govern brings a motion to vacate. Yes, I would motion to table in that circumstance. 
 
REP. JAMIE RASKIN (D-MD): I will make common cause with anybody who will stand up for the people of Ukraine, anybody who will get desperately needed humanitarian assistance to Gaza, and anybody who will work for a two-state solution. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) RAJU: Now the timing of this is unclear. In large part because Marjorie Taylor Greene could call it this resolution really whenever she wants. The House is in recess for the next two weeks so it won't happen then. But when she gets back, if she decides to move ahead, that would start the clock. 
 
There would be two legislative days to have this critical vote. That first vote is supposed to be a procedural one. It's expected to be -- it's called a motion to table, essentially kill that resolution to oust Johnson from the Speakership.
 
That is the one Democrats are voting, considering voting to do essentially kill the Marjorie Taylor Greene resolution. Well see if they get to that point. But their (INAUDIBLE) are going be move on Ukraine aid or perhaps they'd vote to oust him, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Manu, thanks. 
 
And there's more from you here with this question. Is Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski leaving the door open to potentially leaving the Republican Party. She spoke to Manu this morning on the Hill.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. LISA MURKOWSKI (R-AK): I don't think that IT can be defended. What happened on January 6 was an effort by people who stormed the building in an effort to stop an election. 
 
I wish that as Republicans, we had a -- we had a nominee that I could get behind. I certainly can't get behind Donald Trump. 
 
RAJU: Are you considering being an Independent at this point? 
 
MURKOWSKI: oh, I think I'm very independent-minded. 
 
RAJU: Officially though. Officially.
 
MURKOWSKI: I just regret that our party is seemingly becoming a party of Donald Trump. 
 
RAJU: Yes. You becoming an Independent caucusing with Republicans, is that something you are open to? 
 
MURKOWSKI: I am navigating my way through some very interesting political times. Let's just leave it at that
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Right now, all three Independents in the U.S. Senate, including recent convert Kyrsten Sinema caucus with the Democratic Party.
 
All right. After a quick break, Israel reportedly agrees to a U.S. proposal to release Palestinian prisoners in exchange for hostages held by Hamas. We have the very latest on the negotiations next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:28:19]
 
WHITFIELD: Kensington Palace is speaking out on behalf of the Prince and Princess of Wales after receiving a flood of support and well- wishes following Princess Kate's announcement of her cancer diagnosis on Friday.
 
A spokesperson from Kensington Palace says the couple is enormously touched by the kind messages from people here in the U.K. across the Commonwealth and around the world in response to her royal highness' message. They are extremely moved by the public's warmth and support and are grateful for the understanding of their request for privacy at this time.
 
In Friday's video post the Princess said doctors discovered she had cancer after having an abdominal surgery in January. And she is now in the early stages of chemotherapy treatment. 
 
At least 84 people have been killed in Gaza in roughly the last 24 hours, according to the Gaza ministry of health. That death toll comes as the Palestinian Red Crescent says Israeli forces are surrounding two hospitals in southern Gaza where officials are reporting heavy gunfire and shelling. 
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks is in Doha, Qatar. Paula, what are Israeli officials saying about these ongoing operations.
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fredricka, two more hospitals now are being targeted by the Israeli military. What the IDF has said at this point is that with the al-Nasser Hospital -- excuse me, al- Amal Hospital in southern Gaza. They're not inside the hospital. They are working in the neighborhood of that hospital saying that they are going after Hamas operatives. Now what we've heard from the Palestinian Red Crescent is that there were many people inside that were sheltering, that were injured and medical staff. 
 <br>[14:30:04]
 
So what they have done now, the Israeli military, according to the Red Crescent of evacuated all those that can move independently out of the hospital towards an area of Mawasi. This is what the IDF has called a humanitarian area, although its unclear if there's actually any its humanitarian support for those that are evacuating into that area. 
 
But there are still medical staff. Of course, those patients that cannot move inside that hospital another hospital, Nasser hospital. We understand that the Israeli military working in that area, and of course, al-Shifa hospital. This operation by the Israeli military started on Monday mornings. So, almost a week into this operation, the IDF says that they arrested hundreds of what they call terrorists, they have killed more than 150. 
 
But what were hearing on the other side from those inside the hospital medical staff are saying hundreds of tracks without food, water, or medical supplies and they're calling on international aid groups and the U.N. to help them. We heard the head of the WHO on Friday saying that that siege must end -- Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Paula, on top of that, the head of the main United Nations agency working in the region says Israel will block some of its food deliveries in Gaza. What do you know about that?
 
HANCOCKS: Yes. So this is from the chief of UNRWA, Philippe Lazzarini. He has -- this is effectively the U.N. group that works in Gaza that has been working there for many years, but the group which Israel has accused 12 members of which were part of the October 7 attack. So what we have seen now is from the head of UNRWA itself, is that Israel has told them that they will not be facilitating any UNRWA routes up to northern Gaza. 
 
The group saying that it hasn't been able to take food or aid to anyone in northern Gaza for two months now, now this, of course, is an area where the U.N. says they are on the brink of famine that many in that area will undergo famine either from now until mid May, saying it is a critical time to try and get aid to this area. 
 
Lazzarini saying that this is outrageous, calling on Israel to work to change its tactics, but we have heard from Israel that they believe that UNRWA should be defunded, calling on many countries around the world to stop giving them money -- Fredericka.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, Paula, what more do you know about Israel appearing to agree to some sort of us proposal on a hostage prisoner swap?
 
HANCOCKS: While we've certainly seen this being pushed forward from the U.S. side over the past couple of days, we understand that there was a proposal from the U.S. when it comes to the Palestinian prisoners, the amount a number of prisoners that would be released in exchange for a certain number of hostages within that six week ceasefire. Now, what we understand is that Israel has agreed to that according to a CNN analyst quoting senior Israeli government officials, and that now they are waiting for a Hamas response.
 
So, we know that the technical teams are still here in Doha waiting for any kind of response from any side -- Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Keep us posted as you know. Paula Hancocks, thanks so much in Doha.
 
All right. Back in this country, Vice President Kamala Harris won't rule out consequences for Israel or Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu if Israel forces go ahead with a military operation in Rafah. Biden administration officials believe any large-scale ground operation in the area could lead to a humanitarian catastrophe. 
 
CNN's Kevin Liptak is at the White House for us.
 
Kevin, the vice president's warning comes as Israel's defense minister is about to visit the U.S. 
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yeah, this week is shaping up to be a critical one for this conflict, not just for the trajectory of, trajectory of the war, but it will be a real test of American influence on the Israelis. And there are two separate delegations officials from Israel who will be traveling to Washington this week for these high-stakes meetings. 
 
One is led by the defense minister. He left today and he's expected to meet early this week with Lloyd Austin, the American defense secretary, Antony Blinken, the secretary of state, and Jake Sullivan, President Biden's national security adviser. At the same time, there is this separate delegation that is coming to discuss this critical issue of Rafah and what American officials say are some alternatives to a ground invasion there. 
 
And you'll remember, Fredricka, President Biden when he spoke with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a week ago, asked him to dispatch this delegation so they could discuss this very key issue. But what you have heard from Netanyahu in the days since, he is not backing off this commitment to go into Rafah, to go after Hamas. And certainly that is causing quite a bit of consternation here at the White House. 
 <br>[14:35:03]
 
And you heard the Vice President Kamala Harris address this in an interview today. Listen to what she said 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We have been clear multiple conversations and in every way that any major military operation in Rafah would be a huge mistake. Let me tell you something. I have studied the maps. There is nowhere for those folks to go and were looking at about 1.5 million people in Rafah who are there because they were told to go there, most of them. And so, we've been very clear that it would be a mistake to move into Rafah with any type of military operation. 
 
INTERVIEWER: Are you ruling out that there would be consequences from the United States?
 
HARRIS: I am ruling out nothing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIPTAK: So not ruling out consequences there. It remains to be seen whether those potential consequences will be discussed in these very, very important meetings in Washington this week, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Very consequential. Kevin Liptak, thank you so much. 
 
All right. Still ahead, parts of the Midwest this week could see more snow in the coming days than what they've seen all winter long, the cities and the bulls-eye, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:40:54] WHITFIELD: All right. More than 360,000 people are without power in the Northeast after a winter storm brought heavy, freezing rain and snow. People are being advised to stay off the icy roads while crews tried to repair downed power lines. 
 
Isn't it spring? No, not really. 
 
And then there are blizzard warnings in effect for parts of the Plains, as a second storm system ramps up.
 
CNN meteorologist Elisa Raffa is here tracking the storms that we should call spring storms where we can't because they're winter-like.
 
ELISA RAFFA, CNN WEATHER ANCHOR: It is incredible.
 
WHITFIELD: In this first week of spring. 
 
RAFFA: Yeah. I mean, it's really the madness that we get in whether in March because we've got blizzard conditions with this severe weather, fire weather just so many things unfolding with this storm. And a lot of these places that are getting the snow really haven't gotten snow really all winter. 
 
Here's a look at some of the impacts. You see the red, that's where were looking at major impacts from this storm. We're talking about whiteout conditions, gusty winds, just incredible. The storm is starting to intensify its already snowing up in Minneapolis. You can see the lightning down in Oklahoma City. 
 
I wanted to show you the winter storm warnings that we've got because we've got some blizzard conditions for a lot of the planes here where the blue blizzard conditions are showing for snow up to eight inches to a foot. We've got gust up 260 miles per hour. If we advance and then we could show where we've got some of the warnings for blizzard conditions just really popping. 
 
And again, it's incredible because it's March. A lot of these places really having gotten snow so far this winter and now they could be looking at more snow just from this one event, then we've seen in the entire winter season, December, January, and February. Lightening showing up to where those storms are intensifying. 
 
But the warnings again, continuing four for blizzard conditions will also severe weather that can be possible out of this two would damaging winds and tornadoes. Fire weather, too, so it's keeping us busy over the next couple of hours and we'll have to continue to track it. 
 
WHITFIELD: My goodness. Okay. We can't settle in just yet, but typically this is what spring is all about, you know, especially in the Northeast and parts of the Midwest, it comes a little later despite what the calendar says. 
 
RAFFA: Yeah.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Elisa, thank you so much. All right. When we come right back, Caitlin Clark -- well, she does it
 
 again, the NCAA all-time leading scorer is off to a great March Madness start. We'll look at who's in, who's out, and how many perfect brackets are left. I don't think that's possible, not anymore. 
 
And amid scandal growing, baseball superstar Shohei Ohtani and his Dodgers are set to play at home tonight. 
 
We'll take you to Dodger Stadium.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:48:09]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back. The clock is ticking for Donald Trump, who needs to come up with $464 million by tomorrow for his New York City -- New York rather civil fraud judgment or risk losing his prized New York properties. The New York attorney generals office has already filed judgments in Westchester County. The first step toward potentially seizing his golf course and Seven Springs private estate north of Manhattan. 
 
And if that happens, the former president would join an elite club of high-profile figures who have had their estates very publicly seized to pay off debts. 
 
CNN's Tom Foreman has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Money from his NFL days, his movies, his commercials, it was all in theory up for seizure after O.J. Simpson found not guilty of murder in 1995, was held civilly liable nearly two years later for the deaths of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman.
 
In short order, he owed the victims' families more than $30 million.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our family is grateful for a verdict of responsibility which is all we ever wanted. 
 
FOREMAN: But although authorities raced to fulfill the judgment, even seizing and selling off O.J.'s Heisman Trophy, an attorney for Nicole's estate says, O.J.'s wealth was locked up, an untouchable pensions. His car was leased. His house heavily mortgaged and what was left?
 
JOHN Q. KELLY, ATTORNEY: Rugs, crystal, trophies, golf clubs, you know, expensive furniture and things like that. Those were the only things we could get and you're eventually auction to offer about maybe million and a half bucks.
 
FOREMAN: Seizing and selling assets in such cases can be complex and moves very slowly. Take the New York Stock Market scammer who saw authorities seize his bank accounts, his homes, his boats, it's been 15 years since Bernie Madoff's guilty plea, but investors only recently announced they've recovered just over 90 percent of what he stole from them, which many experts actually call a big success in this business. 
 <br>[14:50:18]
 
BESS FREEDMAN, CEO OF LUXURY REAL ESTATE FIRM, BROWN HARRIS STEVENS: When someone has an enormous amount of wealth and a lot of assets and a lot of partners, and it's super complicated that makes it -- you know, it drags it out and its unfortunate because you're right, then justice takes much longer and people have to wait.
 
FOREMAN: In Florida, a court just this year ordered the seizure of more than $63 million in assets from a Miami commissioner for engaging in an improper political retaliation, but he's fighting to keep us house, which is slowing the process.
 
Some cases go faster. In New York, scores of ice cream trucks were seized after the city said owners racked up millions in traffic tickets. 
 
And some cases don't seem difficult at all. A few years ago, a man was accused of looting and selling priceless Cambodian antiquities, but died before answering criminal charges. His family has returned more than 100 relics to Cambodia, and in 2023 agreed to forfeit 12 million and a Vietnamese statue.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, wow. Okay. Thank you, Tom Foreman, for that. 
 
All right. How are your March Madness brackets doing? Nine teams have moved into the sweet 16, Creighton and NC State advanced in overtime last night.
 
I like to bring in CNN's Coy Wire. 
 
I didn't do any brackets this year, so I'm free and clear.
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, save yourself the stress.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. But tell me what's happening because apparently, everybody else's brackets are busted. 
 
WIRE: Yeah, everyone else's -- everyone else's, not mine though.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, okay. You're okay? 
 
WIRE: No, I lied.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, all right.
 
WIRE: I was doing great until Oregon lost to Creighton last night, I had the Ducks going all the way to the national title game. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, sorry. WIRE: The Ducks let me down, but it was an absolute thriller. This one was tight throughout. The Blue Jays down to the closing seconds, Baylor Scheierman knocking down the jumper to tie it with nine seconds to go, sending to overtime. 
 
And in the extra period, Creighton was up three with timeline down, Jermaine Couisnard hits the clutch three to tie with 18 seconds to go, sending it to double OT. That's when the Blue Jays would run away with it, though. Creighton now score and Oregon 15-2 in double OT. They would end up winning easily, 86-73. 
 
NC State and Oakland also playing a thriller, Jack Gohlke following up his 10 3-pointer performance by making six more. The 14th seeded Golden Grizzlies taken the Wolf pack two over time in this one as well. But that's when NC State would go on a 9-0 run. They would win 79-73. So the magical run in March for the Wolf pack continues. They want five games and five days to win the ACC tournament and make this tournament. Now they are on to the sweet 16. 
 
NC State will now face Marquette in the south regional semifinals. The second seeded Golden Eagles beat Colorado of just a bit ago, 81-77. 
 
Will all four one seeds make the sweet 16? That's the question. Perdue has already tipped off. UConn in Houston there and action later and you can watch them across our sister networks, TBS, TNT, and TruTV. 
 
Now, Fredricka, you have to see this. 
 
WHITFIELD: I'm ready. 
 
WIRE: After Illinois win yesterday, usually you see some water bottle celebrations. Well, Coach Brad underwater, too.  Underwood came with Super Soaker, his players absolutely loved it. The Fighting Illini play Iowa State next. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, that's great. That's what I love about the -- I mean, I didn't not do the bracket because I'm not enamored with this whole March Madness, NCAA. 
 
I love it. I love the excitement. I love -- I mean, all of these young guys and gowns or just bringing it and they're inspirational, so we talked about the men. I love how the coaches are intuitive.
 
But what about the women? 
 
WIRE: The women, the big talk of the town is the biggest name in all of college basketball this year is Caitlin Clark. 
 
WHITFIELD: She's amazing. She took a while to get cooking yesterday, but she finally did, and look, how she scored 27 points, dished out ten assists, as Iowa rolled pass Holy Cross 91-65. Clark needs just 29 points now to surpass one more huge record in her career, Kelsey Plum's record for most points in a season in D1 history. She'll take the floor next on Monday night when she -- her Hawkeyes face West Virginia. 
 
Now the favorites have flourished on the women's side but two seed Ohio State just got upset by seven seed Duke. So, action is heating.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow.
 
WIRE: South Carolina Gamecocks, they're the overall favorite to win at all. They're rolling. Coach Dawn Staley has those girls balling. 
 
WHITFIELD: I love it. 
 
WIRE: Yes. 
 
WHITFIELD: It's so exciting. 
 
Thank you so much, Coy Wire.
 
WIRE: Good to see you.
 
WHITFIEDL: Great to see you.
 
Okay. Witness the modern evolution of the world's greatest entertainment capital, Las Vegas, of course. It becomes Americans playground. In the final episode of the CNN original series, "VEGAS: THE STORY OF SIN CITY" airing tonight at 10:00, right here on CNN.
 <br>[14:55:06]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's the first time I've ever been in Vegas, so I'm curious to see I'm going to really enjoy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The salaries were actually ridiculous. I remember Dolly Parton was playing. They paid her over $300,000 a week. Everybody was astounded. Sometimes the salaries were so huge, you wonder how they were going to make their money. And they just couldn't continue to do it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Big bank all the time. "Vegas: The story of Sin City" airs tonight at 10:00 p.m. Eastern right here on CNN. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)