Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Drone Attack In Jordan Kills Three U.S. Soldiers, Injures Dozens More; Suspended Funding To UNRWA Deepens Suffering Of War Victims In Gaza; House Republicans Push Forward With The Impeachment Of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas; NATO's Secretary-General Stoltenberg Due To Speak With Lawmakers On Capitol Hill; Kansas City Chiefs Super Bowl-Bound Again To Face San Francisco 49ers; Princess of Wales Is Now Home. Aired 12- 1p ET

Aired January 29, 2024 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:30]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: A deadly attack on U.S. troops is raising fears of a widening war in the Middle East. "One World" starts 
 
 right now. "We shall respond." Those are the words from President Biden after a deadly attack on U.S. troops in the Jordan-Syria border. What this 
 
 means for tensions in the region. 
 
Plus, an unlikely household item is causing a commotion in Russia as President Putin registers his candidacy for the 2024 election. And the San 
 
 Francisco 49ers and Kansas City Chiefs are set to meet again in their second Super Bowl rematch in just four years. We will take you live to 
 
 Detroit for more. 
 
Live from New York, I'm Bianna Golodryga. Zain is off today. You are watching "One World". "We shall respond." Those are the words coming from 
 
 U.S. President Joe Biden after a drone attack took the lives of three U.S. soldiers and injured dozens more. It happened at an outpost in Jordan near 
 
 the border with Syria on Sunday. The U.S. has blamed Iran-backed militant groups in the region. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, SPOKESMAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: We don't seek a war with Iran. We're not looking for a wider conflict in the Middle East. In 
 
 fact, every action the President has taken has been designed to de- escalate, to try to bring the tensions down. 
 
And obviously, this attack, very, very serious, certainly escalatory on the behalf of these militia groups. We have to take that seriously and we will. 
 
 But I'm not going to get ahead of the President's decision space one way or the other. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: For its part, Iran is distancing itself from the attack, calling any accusations that it was involved baseless. The incident has further 
 
 escalated tensions in the Middle East, which have been running extremely high since the Israel-Hamas war began. 
 
These are the first U.S. deaths by enemy fire in the region since that conflict started in October. A bit earlier, we heard from U.S. Secretary -- 
 
 Defense Secretary, and it was his first day back in the office since his recent hospitalization. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: President and I will not tolerate attack on U.S. forces, and we will take all necessary actions to defend the 
 
 U.S. and our troops. Now, at this important time, I'm glad to be back at the Pentagon. I feel good and am recovering well, but still recovering. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Arlette Saenz is at the White House and joins us live there. Great to hear that the Secretary is back in the office and feeling good. 
 
 Arlette, we heard from the President. We shall respond over the weekend any more from how and what a response may look like. 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, President Biden is still weighing the options for how the U.S. will respond to this attack, 
 
 which resulted in the death of three U.S. service members. He spoke yesterday with National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and also Defense 
 
 Secretary Lloyd Austin to get briefed on the attack and also begin those conversations about how the U.S. will respond. 
 
We anticipate those conversations will continue throughout the day, but President Biden yesterday vowed that the U.S. would be responding in a time 
 
 and manner of its choosing. Of course, the big question now is what avenue the President does try to pursue to try to get some retaliation for these 
 
 attacks. 
 
Of course, one of the big concerns, as you heard John Kirby outline earlier, is that the White House has been trying to prevent this conflict 
 
 in the Middle East from broadening even further. And a potential action by the United States could also run the risk of doing just that. 
 
Now, so far, we've seen President Biden really taken very limited steps to respond to these types of attacks, striking things like supply and weapon 
 
 infrastructure buildings that are tied to these. Iran back to militant groups. The question is whether the President will decide to take things 
 
 potentially a step further. 
 
You've already heard some pressure from lawmakers up on Capitol Hill. Republicans like Senator Lindsey Graham, Senator John Corden, saying that 
 
 the President needs to strike directly in Iran now to try to send a message, you know. At this time, it remains unclear whether the President 
 
 will exactly go that far. But it does come as the stakes have really been raised after the death of these three Americans. 
 
There have been many attacks on U.S. and coalition forces in the region since October 7th, more than 150 attacks. But this does mark the first time 
 
 that American lives were lost due to these types of attacks. So, now it really has raised the stakes for President Biden as he's charting the 
 
 course forward, as he's trying to determine this course of action. 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, really no great option here for President Biden putting him in a very difficult position. Arlette Saenz, thank you. Well, let's get 
 
 some more perspective on the situation in the Middle East. We're joined by Aaron David Miller, former Middle East negotiator at the U.S. State 
 
 Department, and CNN military analyst General Wesley Clark, former NATO Supreme Allied Commander. 
 
Welcome, both of you. General, let me start with you. This is the first ever drone attack, a deadly drone attack on U.S. forces in the history of 
 
 warfare. Clearly, President Biden has to respond in some manner. What would you advise that should be? 
 
WESLEY CLARK, RETIRED GENERAL, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, everyone's going to look for various responses, non-military tightening sanctions and these 
 
 kinds of things. We've been playing a tit for tat game with the Iranians now for several weeks. We're not getting ahead of the problem. This is 
 
 something, an action that was organized, inspired, supported technically by Iran. 
 
So, there's no point in there denying it. We know they're behind it. And I think you have to go to the source in this case, as well as the, wherever 
 
 that launch point was for the drone attack, it's not enough to go drop a couple of bombs there, got to go to the source. 
 
How you do that, when you do it, what you strike with, where you strike -- all that is going to be under consideration. But the important point is this is motivated by Iran. It's part of an Iranian campaign against the 
 
 United States. Time to take it to the source. 
 
GOLODRYGA: General, in terms of how this drone attack was able to penetrate this facility and kill three U.S. servicemen and injure many others, the 
 
 Wall Street Journal is reporting that the U.S. failed to stop the attack when air defenses confused an enemy drone with a U.S. drone. Apparently a 
 
 U.S. drone was returning to the base at that exact same time. How common is a situation in unfortunate mishap like that? 
 
CLARK: It's -- I don't know how common it is because you'd have to have access to the detailed records to see this. It may have been happenstance. 
 
 It may have been a deliberate plan to do this. And it may have been that the U.S. air defenses wouldn't have protected the base in any case. All of 
 
 that is being evaluated by the chain of command. 
 
But it's also somewhat irrelevant because the point is this is a policy coming from Iran that the United States has to respond to. We've responded 
 
 by saying we don't want escalation. We've responded with minimum retaliation. 
 
We're trying in Yemen to prevent each individual strike on a ship. Okay, but enough's enough. You got to get ahead of it. To get ahead of it, you've 
 
 got to take it to the source and insist that Iran stop inspiring these attacks. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, two U.S. carrier groups. Obviously, the president warning from day one after the October 7th attack for any enemy wanting to 
 
 capitalize on this conflict not to. And yet here we are, Aaron, 150-plus strikes, this one being the first that succeeded in actually killing U.S. 
 
 service men. And the President's really put in a box here, because you've got an election coming up this year. 
 
Obviously, a response is warranted and expected, but the type of response is really getting mixed directions from those that are very hawkish in the 
 
 Republican Party, saying that the President has to go directly after Iran. And there are others who are suggesting he still has other options, 
 
 specifically targeting some of these proxy groups. Talk about the diplomatic challenges that now face this President. 
 
AARON DAVID MILLER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: Look, I think the administration has a strategic problem with Iran. Previous administrations 
 
 had a strategic problem, but we have no strategic solution. Right now, I think you have a very unhealthy marriage of risk readiness on the part of 
 
 the Iranians who are using their proxies and risk aversion, understandably in my judgment, on the part of the Biden administration. 
 
Because there's no strategic solution to the problem with Iran, we're not going to change the regime, and the President doesn't want a major 
 
 escalation in a war. I think, however, and General Clark, I think, makes a very good point here. There are options that might address the problem 
 
 without actually striking Iran proper. 
 
There's the option of taking out Iranian fast boats in the Gulf. You can attack IRGC, Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, installations in Syria. But 
 
 I do believe that the response has to target Iranian assets. But probably not in Iran. I'd be surprised if the administration went there. And that's 
 
 the real dilemma that they're in. No good or bad options. In my judgment, bad to worse. 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
GOLODRYGA: And General, in trying to determine what the next step looks like and not wanting to create a situation where you're doing a tit for tat 
 
 or a game of whack-a-mole, what is the most effective option for this President now to send a clear message to Iran, perhaps not actually 
 
 targeting Iran directly, but making it clear that its proxies need to be put on notice? 
 
CLARK: Well, I think he needs to go after the command and control elements of the Revolutionary Guards. And if he can find those and strike them 
 
 effectively outside Iran, that's fine. Is it going to be sufficient? And if I were inside the White House, I'd be arguing that at this point, you need 
 
 to be looking for decisive force. You don't want a proportionate escalation.
 
You want a disproportionate escalation to cap this off. It's -- Aaron says it exactly right. The Iranians are willing to tolerate a certain degree of 
 
 risk, but not too much risk because they want their nuclear program. And they're also sitting on a hot -- seething hotbed of resentment from their 
 
 own populace. 
 
So, their control of Iran is maintained essentially by repression and force. So, a lot of Iranians, they're looking to see a strong U.S. response 
 
 as a signal that the West understands the repressive nature of the Iranian regime and would support an effort to overturn that regime. 
 
And that's just as clear and simple as it can be. I talk to Iranians and they tell me every day -- so, this is the Biden administration has sort of 
 
 been complicit with the Iranians. Why do they give them money? Why do they do this? 
 
And so, there's a lot of confusion in the minds of people in the region. What the people in the region are looking for and what the leaders are 
 
 looking for is a strong response. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And, Aaron, you know, meantime today we're seeing more rockets launched into Israel, increased fighting in the border, the northern border 
 
 there with Hezbollah. These are all proxies of Iran, but a big concern is a miscalculation, or perhaps even these proxies continuing on their own, 
 
 regardless of what Iran may be nudging or not nudging them to do. 
 
Case in point, the Houthis. We had an expert on last week who said that at his estimation, even if the fighting subsides, in Gaza that he thinks the 
 
 Houthis may continue their attacks because it's given them -- it's elevated them regionally and economically around the world at this point. How 
 
 concerned are you about that? 
 
MILLER: All of that's true. Look, this is a broken, angry, dysfunctional part of the world in which the United States is stuck. We have core 
 
 interests that affect our security and our prosperity. 
 
And we're going to have to deal, unfortunately, with a region that doesn't offer up definitive or comprehensive solutions to the problems that ail it. 
 
 And we, particularly in an election year, it seems to me, we're going to be, at least the administration is going to be much more risk-averse than 
 
 it is risk-ready. 
 
Because what Hamas has demonstrated, sadly and tragically, I mean, it's profoundly disturbing that the asymmetry of power is a -- extremely useful 
 
 tool. The information war, which Hamas frankly, I'm sorry to say, seems to be winning, creates major problems for powers that have a mastery and a 
 
 domination of force. The Israelis are now operating in Gaza. 
 
In February 7th will be the fifth month of the war. Yes, they've dealt Hamas a grave blow and degraded it, but they have failed to kill its senior 
 
 leadership and or redeem the hostages. I'm afraid, Bianna, General Clark has a lot of experience in this area, that we're like, in some respects, 
 
 Gulliver, wandering around in a part of the world that in many respects we don't understand, tied up by adversaries and even some of our partners, 
 
 Saudi Arabia in particular, I might add, whose interests, they're not coincidentally across the board our own. 
 
We're going to have to find a way to manage and cope. But I would turn to one basic point. We have this strategic problem with Iran, a punitive 
 
 nuclear weapon state that uses its proxies. And I don't want to push the administration into an escalatory cycle in which you end up with a merger 
 
 with the war. But I'm afraid we're heading toward that scenario. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, you mentioned the Hamas fighters and Israel's Defense Minister Yoav Gallant just moments ago stating that a quarter of Hamas 
 
 fighters have been killed by their estimations and at least another quarter are wounded. Mind you, we know what the death toll and the heavy toll that 
 
 this war, in general, has taken nearly four months in and you don't even have the top leadership of this organization -- this terror group taken out 
 
 at this point. 
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
A lot of concern, a lot of instability in that region, that's for sure. Aaron David Miller, General Wesley Clark, thank you. 
 
Well, a flurry of diplomatic activity is already underway amid efforts to secure the release of the remaining hostages. Today, U.S. Secretary of 
 
 State Antony Blinken met with the Qatari Prime Minister. Now, it comes after high-level talks in Europe on the weekend between CIA Director Bill 
 
 Burns and officials from Qatar, Israel and Egypt. 
 
The Israeli Prime Minister's office says the talks were constructive, but that, quote, "significant gaps remain". And some family members of 
 
 Americans believed to have been taken captive by Hamas are returning to Washington this week. Sources tell CNN they hope to step up the pressure on 
 
 the Biden administration to broker a deal between Israel and Hamas. 
 
And meanwhile in Gaza, displaced Palestinians warn governments that suspend their funding to the U.N.'s main relief agency will only deepen the 
 
 suffering, calling it a death sentence. Romania is the latest in a string of countries saying that they will pause funding to UNRWA. It follows 
 
 allegations by Israel that several employees of the agency took part in Hamas' October 7th attacks. 
 
Well, the war in Gaza is taking a toll on tens of thousands of pregnant women and their unborn babies. The few hospitals that are left are 
 
 struggling under the weight of war casualties and routine maternity care often takes a back seat. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh brings us this story and 
 
 just a warning, some of the scenes in her report are difficult to watch. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Born into this world all alone. No parents by her side. Only a stranger's touch for the baby with no 
 
 name. Delivered by C-section last month to a mother already gone, fatally injured in an explosion. She's been in an incubator since, stable now, but 
 
 still fragile, doctors say. 
 
She's one of the nearly 20,000 born into this war. Every 10 minutes a baby is born in Gaza, the U.N. says. Gaza is where the blessings of life are now 
 
 a curse. Um Yezan is five months pregnant. Like most Gazans, her family's homeless. This, the toilets of a school turned shelter is where they live. 
 
This is our life in the toilets, Um Yezan says. We lay our mattresses and sleep here. Um Yezen and her husband can hardly feed their children. 
 
 There's not enough for their unborn child. 
 
I'm in my fifth month craving foods, but there's no food, no flour, nothing, she says. She's not had her iron supplements, not even a check-up 
 
 in months. We wanted to check if there's a heartbeat, but there are no hospitals. They're only dealing with emergencies, she says. There are no 
 
 scans to see if the baby's alive or not. Life is non-existent for pregnant women. 
 
Gaza's few remaining hospitals are overwhelmed with the seemingly endless flood of war casualties. There's no chance of carrying out routine care, 
 
 and the estimated 50,000 pregnant women and their unborn babies are left out in the cold. They're already precarious situation before the war, now 
 
 dramatically worse. 
 
About 40 percent of all pregnancies are now high-risk, aid groups say. Miscarriages, stillbirths, pre-term labor, her mortality are much more 
 
 likely. For first-time mothers like Hiam, the excitement is overshadowed by this miserable existence that's now her life, soon to be her babies. 
 
Being pregnant with your first child should be nice, you eat, you rest, you sleep, but I didn't get any of that, Hiam says. Instead, she's had to flee 
 
 several times, taking shelter in overcrowded hospitals, walking miles searching for safety. After walking for many hours, I was exhausted, she 
 
 says. The baby was very weak. 
 
They told me I should be staying in the hospital, but there was no room, so I had to leave. She's now in this tent, sleeping on a sand floor. How will 
 
 I give birth in war when I have nothing for the baby, no formula, no diapers? We're in a tent and it's very cold for us. What will life be like 
 
 for a tiny baby born into these conditions? 
 
It's hell. This burnt-out classroom in what's left of northern Gaza is the only shelter Yujut could find. She barely made it through the bombardment 
 
 and labor, struggling to keep her newborn healthy, clean and warm. 
 
We want to clean the classroom but there's no disinfectant, Najud says. There's no health care, no clinics, no vaccinations for the baby. War has 
 
 separated Najud from her husband. She's only been able to reach him once when she told him they had a baby girl, Habiba. Najud's mother spends her 
 
 days trying to find what she can to feed her daughter. 
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
This is my first grandchild. It's supposed to be happiness, she says. But I couldn't celebrate. I wanted to prepare so many things for her to celebrate 
 
 her arrival, my precious first granddaughter. She didn't even get the new clothes I bought her. It's never been harder to be a mother in Gaza. All 
 
 you can do is hold your baby tight and hope you both survive this nightmare. Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: That's a difficult and really important story brought to us by Jomana Karadsheh, our thanks to her. Well coming up, the U.S. Congress 
 
 could soon reach agreement on a deal to ease the migrant crisis on the southern border. Why Donald Trump wants the deal to tank. Then the Kremlin 
 
 is cracking down on exiled musicians and artists who are voicing opposition to the war in Ukraine. Critics say it's a clear warning to keep quiet. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, there are two key issues to keep an eye on in Washington in the next couple of weeks. In a historic move, House Republicans are 
 
 pushing forward with the impeachment of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas over his handling of the surging migrant crisis at the 
 
 southern border. 
 
And Democratic Senator Christopher Murphy says a bipartisan deal has been reached on a new border security package that could be ready to hit the 
 
 Senate floor in the coming days. However, Donald Trump is pressuring Republicans to block the deal, saying he'll be happy to take the blame if 
 
 it fails. 
 
For more on this, Lauren Fox joins us from Capitol Hill. And Lauren, to some staunch Republican's credit, they are pushing back on this commentary 
 
 from former President Trump really emphasizing that this is a deal of a lifetime they likely won't get even if they regain control. 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CAPITOLL HILL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, I mean, when you break down the policy of what we know so far about this deal, and we do not have 
 
 legislative text yet, I think that's important to underscore, this is a wish list of things that Republicans once said that they really did want to 
 
 see when former President Donald Trump was in the White House. 
 
One of those items is increasing the credible fear standard for asylum seekers who cross the border and making those cases move more quickly 
 
 through immigration courts around the country. You also have new powers for the President to shut down the border if border crossings reach a certain 
 
 threshold average for the week. 
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
I think that these are all tools that a lot of conservatives are arguing that would help a President Trump or President Biden in the future. And I 
 
 think that that's why you're seeing some Republican pushback to the fact that Donald Trump is out there assailing this deal. Again, there isn't bill 
 
 text yet. The full understanding of what is inside this package isn't known. 
 
But I think that some Republicans in the Senate especially are deeply frustrated with the fact that Trump and others are out there attacking it 
 
 already because they do argue, do you want a political issue, which Donald Trump has clearly made clear he wants to have on the campaign trail, or do 
 
 you want to solve a problem? 
 
And if the answer is the latter, then Senate Republican leaders are saying this is probably the best opportunity we have had in decades. I just want 
 
 to point out that this is not the first time that President Trump has been out there attacking immigration deals. 
 
When he was President back in 2018, a bipartisan group of lawmakers came up with an agreement on immigration reform that was even broader than this one 
 
 that specifically focuses on border security. Donald Trump killed that deal, too. 
 
So, this is something that he has immense influence over his party on. And it's not that dissimilar to other issues that are also being complicated in 
 
 these negotiations like funding Ukraine aid. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, and that is the Senate that you're talking about. Clearly, former President Trump thinks he has more hold and sway over the House and 
 
 putting public pressure on Speaker Mike Johnson every day and every opportunity he can on this issue. Lauren Fox, thank you. 
 
Well, tens of thousands of migrants have arrived in New York City since last spring, prompting the mayor to issue a warning that the city is 
 
 running out of shelter space. CNN's Gloria Pazmino has the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A warm meal after a day of cooking over an open flame on a shopping cart turned stove outside 
 
 Randall's Island migrant tent city. Robinson Bata says he shares this pot of rice with fellow migrants on the island, home to one of New York City's 
 
 sprawling tent facilities built with capacity to house 3000 men and women. 
 
Robinson, 31 years old, is from Colombia. Just one of the more than 170,000 migrants who have arrived here New York City since the spring of last year. 
 
 More than 68,000 of them are still in the care of the city and space is running out. For now, Robinson counts himself among the lucky ones. 
 
He says he's at a shelter in the Bronx that's safe, a hotel where there are cameras and security. But it's different here on Randall's Island. The 
 
 massive facility has security but no metal detectors. Two weeks ago, a 24- year-old man was stabbed in the neck during a fight that resulted in 18 arrests, according to police. And earlier this month, a man was stabbed and 
 
 killed after a fight broke out inside the tent cafeteria. 
 
ERIC ADAMS, NEW YORK MAYOR: It's still an investigation, but it's horrific, you know, to have someone come here to pursue the American dream, to see it 
 
 turn into a nightmare, to lose a life.
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): CNN has learned there are dozens of security cameras around the island. And the city is in the process of installing more. In 
 
 the meantime, the administration is also exploring a plan to install metal detectors. While Mayor Adams continues to plead for federal intervention, 
 
 his administration has put strict limits on shelter stays. 
 
ADAMS: Our humane policy, that is, we're telling single adults 30 days, children and families 60 days. 
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): Back at the food stalls, migrants make do with what they have. A steaming pot of coffee and pastries to fry. Sold by migrants 
 
 at $2 a pop, it will help keep some of them warm overnight. 
 
This makeshift camp provides shelter to dozens of migrants who are waiting for placement inside the big tent and city shelters. The crude set up is 
 
 just one reminder of the struggle migrants here in New York continue to face as winter drags on. Still, Robinson is hopeful. 
 
PAZMINO: The reason for the hat is he says, well, this is the American flag and the American flag is what's helping me out right now. So, I wear it 
 
 with pride because he's telling me he's hopeful that in the next few months his situation will improve significantly and he'll be able to get settled 
 
 and provide for his family back home. 
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): In New York, Gloria Pazmino, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: Our thanks to Gloria for that report. Well, coming up with Russia's presidential election, less than two months away, egg prices 
 
 across the country are soaring. It's not the image of economic stability Vladimir Putin is trying to project. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:33:38]
 
GOLODRYGA: Welcome back to "One World". I'm Bianna Golodryga. Vladimir Putin is now formally registered as a candidate ahead of Russia's 
 
 presidential election in March. And next month, his army's invasion of Ukraine will hit its two-year mark. As war grinds on, the President is 
 
 trying to project an image of economic stability, but it's proving increasingly difficult. CNN's Clare Sebastian explains why. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: When your husband spoils you with expensive presents, reads the caption. Russian social media brimming with 
 
 egg memes. Making light of a new feature of Russia's upside-down war economy. Sudden and unexpected price rises. 
 
Drive an hour outside Moscow, though. And it's no laughing matter for these pensioners. Of course, we notice it. 
 
The pension is 13,000 rubles, says Lyubov. That's less than $150 per month. Maybe we buy less meat, says Nadezhda. There's still enough for medicines. 
 
 Egg prices rose 18 percent in December alone. Russian official data shows more than 60 percent over the year, far outstripping overall inflation at 
 
 7.4 percent. 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
As images spread of lines forming outside supermarkets, this purportedly from Belgrade in December, Russia's President forced into damage control 
 
 mode. 
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): I am sorry about this and want to apologize for this problem. This is a setback in the 
 
 government's work. Although they say this is not the case, I still think it is. The problem is related to a failure to increase imports enough. 
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): The government took the not-so-subtle hint. Eggs were exempted from import duties for six months and shipments started 
 
 arriving from Turkey, Azerbaijan and staunch ally Belarus also ramping up supplies, its president unable to resist a rare dig. Our own production 
 
 covers our needs in terms of grain, pork, chicken, milk, vegetable oils and chicken eggs. 
 
PUTIN (through translator): Send some to us. Don't be greedy. 
 
SEBASTIAN: In Putin's surprisingly resilient war economy, the egg crisis reveals the biggest problem is not decline, but overheating. Putin says 
 
 this is about higher demand because of slightly higher wages. Partly true, economists say, but what Putin doesn't say is why wages are up. 
 
SEBASTIAN: This labor shortage is a huge issue, right? Where does that come from? 
 
ELINA RIBAKOVA, SENIOR FELLOW, PETERSON INSTITUTE FOR INTL ECONOMICS: Mobilization. I think to me the key issue here is the fact that there are a 
 
 lot of deaths at war and then they have to be replaced. These people have to be replaced. You know, the Russian officials trying to keep it very 
 
 quiet, the numbers of how many people have died. 
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): The weaker ruble, a direct result of sanctions, has also pushed up import costs for poultry producers. And then there's the 
 
 wartime spending. The budget for 2024 envisages even adjusted for inflation, record levels of federal government expenditure. 
 
So, when you put that alongside a, you know, a supply side tightness, with a massive increase in demand driven by the state, you've got a recipe for 
 
 inflation." President Putin now poised for the next price spike. A threat to his image of stability ahead of March elections. Though likely not his 
 
 presidential shelf life. Clare Sebastian, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, in a sign that no Russian critic of Vladimir Putin is safe, even if they have fled the country, a Russian rock band that has 
 
 openly expressed opposition to the war in Ukraine is now reportedly facing possible deportation from Thailand. 
 
According to Bloomberg, the members of Bi-2 were arrested on the resort island of Phuket last week for breaking immigration rules. Moscow is 
 
 accusing them of sponsoring terrorism by supporting Kyiv. Opponents of the Kremlin say that it's all part of a campaign to intimidate and silence 
 
 Russian artists and musicians who are critical of the government. 
 
Time now for The Exchange of my conversation with Mikhail Khyzyrev. Mikhail, it's good to see you. Thank you for joining us. So, first of all, 
 
 tell us more about this band Bi-2 and what happened when they were performing in Thailand. 
 
MIKHAIL KOZYREV, JOURNALIST, TV RAIN: Well, they visit -- it's not the first time that they visit Thailand. And everything was okay one year ago. 
 
 Basically, like with every artist, if you don't have working permit, you just pay a fine or a bribe. And it usually is a little sum of money. 
 
 Everything is fine.
 
But now, this time, right after the end of the concert, there were about 30 people storming in their dressing room. And these were representatives of 
 
 local police and the local immigration authorities, and they were charged with violation of the working permit. 
 
Usually, if you're taken to the police, it takes one night in prison, and then a quick court trial, and then you pay the fine, and they let you go. 
 
 Now this time, it didn't work that way. After the end of the court, they were transported to the detention center, to the prison. And basically, 
 
 right now, they are under danger of being evacuated and given back to Russia. It is a deportation to the country of origin. 
 
Now, there are seven people and among those seven people, there are five Russian passports that with the help of which they entered the country. If 
 
 they are sent to Moscow, because of their political position and because of their harsh criticism of Putin, a very anti-military, they are against the 
 
 war in Ukraine, they would face harsh prosecution and most likely will end up in jail. 
 
But officials in Thailand, they insist on the deportation and even Maria Zakharova, President Shia of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, she expressed 
 
 desire to see those dissidents back home as soon as possible because she incriminates them with the support of terrorism.
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
Now, any voice that you raise about, even using the word war in Russia, in relation to Russian-Ukrainian situation, this is like supporting of 
 
 Ukraine, and this is considered like a support of terrorism. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah.
 
KOZYREV: So, they are behind this special operation that seems like an act of political revenge on those artists that are against Putin and against 
 
 war. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, and a number of them are citizens of various countries, including Israel and Australia, as well. What doesn't bode, so well for 
 
 them is just last year Thailand approved an extradition deal with Russia that would enable them, hypothetically, to go back. 
 
And we should note that the ban did reach out on social media through VKontakte and posted, "Right now, we're in the center of the immigration 
 
 police detention on Phuket Island, Thailand. The concert on January 24th in Phuket went splendidly, but after it the police detained us. The reason for 
 
 the detention was the improbably processed documents by the organizers. They claim that they have all of the right documentation."
 
But Mikhail, for our viewers who are trying to grasp why this would be such a politically important issue for Russia despite, you know, the elections 
 
 being just two months away why anyone would care about a rock band and what they may or may not have said about the war. Explain why.
 
KOZYREV: I think that first of all, Russian authorities are vindictive. They don't want anyone to raise their voice against this so-called special 
 
 military operation. And this is a major band. We're talking about Russian U-2. 
 
They are firm, standing on their principle. They opened their voice against Putin and they want to make it a declarative case in which -- through which 
 
 they want to shut down all of the artists, musicians and directors, everyone who was against and left the country and live in different parts 
 
 of the world. 
 
Wherever you travel, they want to address them. Whatever you do, you never feel safe because we're going to get you wherever we can. And certainly we 
 
 can get you in Southeast Asia, in Indonesia and Thailand. This is not the only case. There are several Russian stand-up comedians that were banned or 
 
 detained and then sent back in those countries. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, Maxim Galkin -- yeah --
 
KOZYREV: So, basically, I think they --
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, Maxim Galkin being one of them
 
KOZYREV: -- I think they just want to present a major example of like top Russian bands that dared to speak up, that if we can reach them, then no 
 
 one ever can feel safe. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And that's one of the reasons why you and your colleagues there, despite the pressure, you yourself were labeled an extremist organization. 
 
 That's why you've had to leave Russia and now TV Rain is reporting from the Netherlands. That's why you're putting so much international pressure on 
 
 this. Do you think ultimately that that will succeed? Do you think this is an opportunity for Thailand to think twice and perhaps not extradite this 
 
 group? 
 
KOZYREV: This is our only hope. I certainly think that they will assess it once again, especially with the attention of the world's media and realize 
 
 that this is basically is really damaging to the tourist industry of the country. You know, when one of the major bands that basically gather 
 
 stadiums around the world, they've been basically given back to this dragon that will catch them and then torture in their motherland. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Mikhail Kozyrev, thank you so much for bringing us their story. We'll continue to follow it. We really appreciate your time. We'll be right 
 
 back with more.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:46:30]
 
GOLODRYGA: NATO's Secretary-General is set to meet with senior U.S. officials, including the Secretary of State in Washington later today. Jens 
 
 Stoltenberg is also due to speak with lawmakers on Capitol Hill during his visit, and he's calling for continued support for Kyiv. On Sunday, 
 
 Stoltenberg said Vladimir Putin's war on Ukraine is not making Europe more vulnerable, but the rest of the Western world, as well. And he warned that 
 
 China is watching. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: Ukraine gets continued support because we need to realize that this is closely watched in Beijing. So, 
 
 it's not only making Europe more vulnerable, but all of us, also United States, more vulnerable if Putin gets what he wants in Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: In other news, E. Jean Carroll is speaking out about her court battle against former U.S. President Donald Trump. The advice columnist, 
 
 sounding incredulous, accused Trump of using his recent court appearances as a quote, "campaign stop". 
 
Carroll was awarded tens of millions of dollars after Trump was found liable for sexual assault and defamation in a civil trial. Here she is 
 
 talking to CNN's Poppy Harlow earlier. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Hadn't seen him since he assaulted me in the dressing room. And preparing to see him was terrifying. And then when we 
 
 were in the courtroom and Robbie went to the lectern, she said, "'Good morning, E. Jean, "Please state your name and spell it for the jury -- for 
 
 the court." And there he was, and he was nothing. Just no power. He was zero. That was -- I was flabbergasted. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Carroll says the damages she was awarded will go to a good use. She's pledging to use the money for women's rights causes. Well, an epic 
 
 Super Bowl battle will pit the Kansas City Chiefs once again against the San Francisco 49ers. We'll have more on the face-off and game predictions 
 
 when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:51:26]
 
GOLODRYGA: The Kansas City Chiefs are Super Bowl-bound again, this time to face -- once again the San Francisco 49ers who they faced in 2020 who 
 
 staged a thrilling rally to overcome the Detroit Lions on Sunday. The Chiefs will be looking to repeat last year's Super Bowl victory. For more 
 
 on the big game, let's go to CNN's Coy Wire. 
 
So Coy, you were at the Lions watch party in Detroit. I have to say I was rooting for them for no other reason than this would have been a first. I 
 
 know that place must have been rocking the first half out. The second half completely different story. 
 
COY WIRE, CNN WORLD SPORT: Oh my goodness.
 
GOLODRYGA: How is everyone feeling there today? 
 
WIRE: Oh, Bianna, they probably still have their heads in the sand. I just feel so heartbroken for this city's Lions fans that have waited their 
 
 entire lives for this moment and they're going to have to wait a little while longer. That watch party you mentioned there at Ford Field here in 
 
 Motor City was full throttle. Fans hiked up, operated on all cylinders as the Lions leaped out to a huge lead, 24 to seven at halftime. 
 
But then it was like someone ripped their magic carpet right out from under them, Bianna. The 49ers overcoming the largest half-time deficit in 
 
 conference championship history. They scored 27 unanswered points in the second half, led by Christian McCaffrey and Brock Purdy, the so-called "Mr. 
 
 Irrelevant", the last player taken two drafts ago.
 
They rallied from 17 points down. They won 34 to 31 back in the Super Bowl with a chance at a record-tying sixth Super Bowl title. The Lions fans, 
 
 after the game, they couldn't believe what they'd just seen, and they told us afterwards about how they were feeling after this historic collapse. 
 
 Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNKNOWN: Defeated. Very upset. We thought we were going to take it home this year. 
 
UNKNOWN: A little speechless, heartbroken. Some things I just don't understand why we didn't go for the field goal. And as I look at the score, 
 
 I don't -- we did a 17-point lead. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE: No, they should keep their heads high. Especially those Lions teams. This team has been a source of hope and unity for this entire city. And 
 
 something tells me they're going to be good for years to come, Bianna.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yeah, why they didn't go for the field goal is a question a lot of people are asking, but they do have a lot of talent. I bet they are 
 
 going to go far again next year. Another question, the 49ers will be facing a team much of us didn't even know of until a certain Taylor Swift became 
 
 associated with the team. I am just kidding. Kansas City was on the map long before Taylor Swift. But talk about the Chiefs. 
 
WIRE: Yeah, they're playing in the Super Bowl for the fourth time in five years, Bianna. Beating the Ravens 17 to 10. Taylor Swift's boyfriend, 
 
 Travis Kelce passing Hall of Famer Jerry Rice for most career playoff receptions. Will we see Kelce, Patrick Mahomes, and Coach Andy Reid in 
 
 Kansas City become the first team to repeat a Super Bowl champs since Tom Brady, Bill Belichick, and the Patriots did it 20 years ago? 
 
Mahomes is just 28 years old. He would become the youngest quarterback to win three Super Bowls since Tom Brady. He knows that just getting back to 
 
 the big game though is a remarkable feat. Listen to this. 
 
PATRICK MAHOMES, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS QUARTERBACK: You never know how many you're going to get to or if you're going to get to any. And so it truly is 
 
 special. 
 
ANDY REID, KANSAS CITY CHIEF'S HEAD COACH: When it came time to put the hammer down, they put the hammer down, which was important. The best part 
 
 is we're not done. 
 
WIRE: It's going to be a party at the first ever Super Bowl in Las Vegas. Now, Taylor Swift has a concert the night before in Tokyo. 
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
But after hopping on what I would imagine would be a polka toot in this private plane and Tokyo being 17 hours ahead of Vegas, she can kind of 
 
 travel back in time, so to speak, on an 11 and a half hour flight and make it to see her man, Travis Kelce, and his Chiefs playing the Super Bowl in 
 
 plenty of time. But I need to know, is Bianna going to be on a plane to Vegas for the Super Bowl? 
 
GOLODRYGA: I'll be right here covering it Monday morning, but I will be watching because unlike some who are Swifties and Taylor Swift fans, I'm 
 
 one of them. You know, I'm Mahomes fan, as well, so I'm rooting for him -- fellow Texan. Coy Wire, thank you. 
 
Well, the Princess of Wales is now home. Kensington Palace says Catherine has returned to Windsor where she will continue her recovery from abdominal 
 
 surgery. The Princess checked into the hospital nearly two weeks ago. The Palace says she has been making good progress. Previously, it said she 
 
 probably won't resume public duties until after Easter. 
 
Well, I want to end our show with a programming note. Don't miss "First Move with Julia Chatterley". It's returning to CNN International at a new 
 
 time. Chatterley will bring you all of the latest details on the markets in Asia, and this will be at 6 P.M. Eastern, 7 A.M. Hong Kong time. That does 
 
 it for this hour of "One World". I'm Bianna Golodryga. Thank you so much for watching. Amanpour is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END