Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Israel Ramps Up Attacks On Hezbollah Targets In Lebanon; Biden Leaves Door Open To Israel Striking Iran's Oil Reserves; Two U.S. Veterans Vie For Virginia's 7th District; Melania Trump Signals Support For Abortion Rights In New Video. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired October 03, 2024 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:31:55]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: All right, we are looking at live pictures here of President Biden there in Keaton Beach, Florida. And he is talking to the man in the Navy hat. That is Senator Rick Scott. 
 
So obviously this is one of the myriad areas affected by Hurricane Helene. And the president is there surveying the damage and looking at the federal response. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: This is his second day of touring damage after spending the day yesterday on an aerial tour of North Carolina and other affected areas. 
 
We are expecting that soon after this President Biden will head to Georgia to continue this tour. Obviously, Hurricane Helene, a devastating storm killing at least 200. 
 
We'll continue monitoring the president's surveying through the damaged area and bring the latest as we get it. 
 
KEILAR: And also new today as Israel weighs its response to that Iranian missile barrage on Tuesday, a CNN team just heard blasts and saw smoke rising over southern Beirut in Lebanon. 
 
This is happening after the IDF says it struck around 200 targets in Lebanon in a huge wave of airstrikes overnight. And among those targets, Hezbollah's intelligence headquarters.
 
The Lebanese military says the strikes in central Beirut killed at least nine people. A monitoring group says the intensity of these strikes is matched only by what we saw in the early days of Israels campaign against Hamas. 
 
SANCHEZ: Meantime, Israel is now warning people in more than two dozen villages in southern Lebanon to evacuate now, telling them to, quote, "save their lives," a major signal that Israel is expanding its ground invasion. 
 
The Ministry of Health in Gaza has reported 99 new deaths and 169 injuries in the past 24 hours from Israeli airstrikes. Obviously, a lot of activity throughout that region. 
 
Let's get you to Tel Aviv now with CNN chief national security analyst, Jim Sciutto. 
 
Jim, what more are you learning about these latest attacks from Israel in Lebanese territory?
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Listen, you know, we talk about the fears in this region of an expanding war. I mean, the fact is, the war is expanding. It's expanding before our eyes, particularly of late.
 
On the Lebanese front, you have Israel conducting airstrikes virtually across the country of Lebanon, from the capital of Beirut, down to southern Lebanon, right up to the northern Israeli border. 
 
Those strikes inside Beirut, perhaps the most consequential because they're taking place in heavily populated areas. So it has struck fear into the population of Beirut as to where the next strike is going to land.
 
As you note, the IDF has identified at least one of the targets of their recent strikes. They say it was a Hezbollah intelligence headquarters. 
 
And we're just learning in the last several minutes that Israel says it conducted strikes in southern Lebanon that killed several Hezbollah commanders. That strike, in conjunction with Israeli ground forces on the ground inside southern Lebanon. 
 
And it's already been a bloody conflict for them. Eight soldiers confirmed killed yesterday. That front of this multi-front war is expanding, and we're seeing it particularly in Beirut.
 <br>[13:35:02]
 
KEILAR: And today, President Biden, Jim, was asked by a reporter if he would support Israel striking Iran's oil reserves in retaliation for Tuesdays missile attacks. 
 
He did appear to leave the door open. He said, quote, "We're in discussions of that." 
 
What are you hearing when it comes to Israel's looming retaliation?
 
SCIUTTO: Listen, we know that the range of options that Israeli leaders are now considering goes from one end, perhaps the most extreme end of the spectrum, which would be to go after Iranian nuclear facilities, but also includes potential strikes on oil facilities as well as senior Iranian leaders. 
 
And at the top end of the spectrum, I think you could safely place a strike on Israeli nuclear facilities. 
 
But it would also be consequential for them to hit oil facilities because, one, of course, that would restrict Iran's earning capability. That's how it makes money, selling oil. 
 
But also would have an international economic effect because that would be expected. 
 
And by the way, already just that prospect has driven up oil prices. And then that has a carry-on effect potentially on the U.S. political scene.
 
For the president there, you know, I listened to his words quite closely. It didn't seem that he was saying, certainly, that he approves of that. But I think what he was communicating is that the U.S. and Israel -- and this is what officials are telling me as well -- are discussing Israel's response.
 
Not clear they'll come to an agreement on what the best course of action is. But I think we could be quite confident Israel will retaliate and perhaps quite soon. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, it would be certainly newsworthy if President Biden were to endorse an attack on those oil facilities, potentially drive up the oil markets around the world about 30 days before an election.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: Jim Sciutto, live for us in Tel Aviv, thank you so much.
 
Up next, a candidate in a tight congressional race is now accused of faking his family in a campaign video. We'll chat with his opponent in just moments.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:41:10]
 
SANCHEZ: Now to some of the headlines we're watching this hour. 
 
The movie "Rust" will premiere at a Polish film festival next month, nearly three years after cinematographer, Halyna Hutchins, was accidentally shot and killed by a live round of ammunition fired from a prop gun held by actor, Alec Baldwin. 
 
We're told the screening, on November 23rd, will be followed by a panel discussion that will include the film's director, who was injured in the shooting, and the woman who replaced Hutchins as cinematographer. 
 
An investigation into last year's deadly wildfire on Maui, meantime, has found that it was caused by an earlier blaze that firefighters thought had already been put out. 
 
It was started by broken power lines that ignited dry vegetation on the ground before quickly spreading across the island. Remember, 102 people we're killed, making it the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century. 
 
And listen to this. A buried 500-pound bomb from World War II exploded at an airport in southwestern Japan causing a giant crater on the taxiway. You see it there? Fortunately, no planes we're nearby when it happened.
 
And no -- officials say that no one was injured. Hundreds of unexploded bombs still remain buried throughout Japan, and they're often dug up at construction sites. Really a scary moment there. 
 
Still ahead, in a new, highly stylized video, former first lady, Melania Trump, comes out in defense of abortion access. A position completely at odds with her own husband's latest stance on abortion. What's the political calculus here? We'll discuss, just minutes away.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:47:28]
 
KEILAR: Thirty-three days to Election Day. And while most eyes are on the top of the ticket, Vice President Harris versus former President Trump, the down-ballot races that will be decided next month could impact the policy of the next administration as much as who wins the White House. 
 
That includes Virginias seventh congressional district which is shaping up to be a nail biter. Two veterans locked in a close race.
 
The Republican, Derek Anderson, a former Green Beret with backing from GOP stalwarts like speaker of the House, Mike Johnson. And the Democrat, Eugene Vindman, a retired Army officer and key figure in former President Trump's second impeachment. 
 
He served in the Trump White House with his twin brother, Alex Vindman, and became a whistleblower over the former presidents infamous phone call with Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky.
 
And Eugene Vindman is joining us now as early voting is already underway in the state.
 
So, Eugene, you and Derek Anderson had your debate last night. You both accused each other of misrepresenting some key personal details. 
 
Let's start with Anderson, who featured pictures and videos of a woman and three kids in his campaign materials that might give the casual observer the impression he's married with kids when he's -- he's not. "The Times" reports there, the wife and kids are a longtime friend of his. 
 
Explain your issue with this. What's your beef with this? Do you think this is disqualifying? Why?
 
LT. COL. EUGENE VINDMAN, (D), U.S. CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATE FOR VIRGINIA: Well, look, first of all, I'm a 25-year Army vet. I'm proud to be raising my family here in Virginia. I love Virginia, with my wife of 26 years.
 
And so, look, what do you do when you're a MAGA -- a middle-aged MAGA extremist bachelor? I guess you borrow a friend's wife and three daughters to soften your image. 
 
I think that "The New York Times" got it 100 percent right. That's exactly what he's trying to do. 
 
He's trying to soften his image with women because he wants to -- he wants to fool people on his positions on -- on the major issues in this race, which are abortion, women's reproductive health care, a fundamental health care issue, and, and Project 2025 where he stands on that. 
 
So that's what he did. It's a strange choice. I've heard, actually, creepy. It's certainly weird/
 
But I -- I have an issue with him trying to fool the voters in this district to believe he's something that he's not. And this is part of a pattern that he's had.
 
KEILAR: He is engaged. In writing, I don't think he's represented himself as being a family man. But the pictures, we see them there.
 <br>[13:50:03]
 
Derek Anderson, meanwhile, accuses you of misrepresenting your military service, which you say you're proud of, your rank at retirement as colonel versus lieutenant colonel, whether you actually saw combat. As you said, you used assault -- assault-style weapons on the battlefield. 
 
What do you say to his accusations?
 
VINDMAN: I guess, first, I'd say that there's more than that one image. There's also an image of him sitting at -- at a kitchen table with a woman and children. I mean clearly portraying himself as a married man with children. He's not that.
 
As it relates to my background, my personal background. Look, I was promoted to colonel by the us Army. People that have served more than a day know that you're referred to as colonel, lieutenant colonel, colonel. 
 
And I'm proud of my service. I put my service up against anybody. I -- there was actually a "Military Times" article that came out that that noted that I had a combat deployment to Iraq. 
 
I stand behind my record and I think these are apples and oranges comparisons. My record is clear. I'm not misrepresenting myself. And Mr. Anderson continually -- continuously misrepresents himself.
 
KEILAR: This idea of what rank you attain versus what you retain as you retire, whether you used assault-style weapons on the battlefield. This has also been an issue that has dogged the vice-presidential candidate, Tim Walz, as well. 
 
And on one hand, there is this emphasis on being very exact about military service. I think sometimes things that civilians don't make a distinction on that maybe people who are military connected might. But then on the other, it does seem like military service is becoming
 
 a bit of a political liability in many cases when it should be an asset. How are you seeing this debate?
 
VINDMAN: Well, look military service is 100 percent an asset. And what I get from my military service, first of all, a lifetime of dedication to -- to mission and to people. 
 
You know, when I was jumping out of airplanes in the 82nd Airborne Division, it didn't matter whether you were a Democrat or Republican, black, white, what part of the country you're in. 
 
We're mission focused. That's the mindset I bring to every job I have. And it's always been country over -- over politics for me. So, it's 100 percent an asset. 
 
I look forward to working with other military members in Congress. And I know that they share that same mission focus. You know, 25 years in the military with my brothers and sisters kinship, there's a camaraderie. 
 
I find it unfortunate and, frankly, I think reflects more on the character of somebody like Mr. Anderson or the vice president when they question another servicemember's record than it does on the people they're questioning. 
 
I stand by my record. Very comfortable with the work that I did. And I was promoted to colonel on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial by Tim Kaine, so. 
 
KEILAR: Eugene Vindman, thank you so much for being with us. Yours is a race to watch. And we appreciate speaking with you today.
 
VINDMAN: Thank you so much, Brianna.
 
KEILAR: And we did ask his opponent in the race to join us. We did not receive an answer. But of course, Derek Anderson is welcome any time to be with us. 
 
SANCHEZ: New today, former first lady, Melania Trump, breaking with her husband very publicly on the issue of abortion. One of the most pivotal this election. Watch this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MELANIA TRUMP, FORMER FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES: Individual freedom is a fundamental principle that I safeguard. Without a doubt there is no room for compromise when it comes to this essential right that all women possess from birth, individual freedom.
 
What does "my body, my choice" really mean?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: So that post also promotes what you just saw there. Her self- titled memoir is set to be released next week. "The Guardian" reporting Mrs. Trump adamantly voices her support for abortion rights in that book as well. 
 
Joining us now is Kate Bennett. She is the author of the book "Free, Melania: The Unauthorized Biography." The comma is important. So I like to mention it. 
 
Why do you think that she shared this strong stance now? A lot of observers are saying, was this to sort of to soften her husband's stance on abortion?
 
KATE BENNETT, AUTHOR, "FREE, MELANIA: THE UNAUTHORIZED BIOGRAPHY": OK, so this is interesting. I don't think Melania Trump does anything outside of the world of Melania Trump. And I can say that, having covered her for many years.
 
You know, if you asked her, did you wear that white suit to the State of the Union to send a signal about, you know, suffragettes or Hillary Clinton? Did you wear that blouse with a bow tie after the "Access Hollywood," both of those things? No, I just wanted to do it. 
 <br>[13:55:03]
 
Did she release it a week before -- this book coming out a week before, a week -- a month before the election to talk about abortion? No, I just wanted -- had it in my book. 
 
I don't think there are coincidences with Melania Trump is my point. However, I don't think she did it at the direction of Donald Trump or because he asked her to, or because she knew he was struggling in the polls with women on this -- on this. 
 
SANCHEZ: It's so interesting that you make that point. I remember, we we're at the White House together covering the Trump administration when she wore that trench coat after she visited young migrants. And the trench coat said, "I really don't care, do you." Do you remember that? 
 
BENNETT: Oh, yes. Yes. 
 
SANCHEZ: So it's interesting you make that point. 
 
I'm more curious about the style of this video. I got to be honest. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: It feels -- it feels a little bit like when I was a kid and I would do confession at Catholic Church, that you feel that there's a face there, but it's like shrouded. It's like in black and white and its shrouded. Why?
 
BENNETT: You know, a lot of people have asked me this since these videos have been released. And I want to add here also, this is the first time we've heard from her during this entire election cycle, the most crucial for her husband's political career. 
 
She comes out to talk about the book using these sorts of black and white mysterious videos. It's -- you know, it's an esthetic choice she -- she has taken here. 
 
I think it's -- she's an enigma. She's mysterious. She's extremely private. So I think she's kind of going after that trend. That would be my best guess on the -- on the black and white videos there. 
 
KEILAR: It's really interesting. 
 
All right, so she's not really been present on the campaign trail, to your point. 
 
BENNETT: Right.
 
KEILAR: So it's very interesting to see her talk a little bit about what her role has and has not been.
 
BENNETT: So it's been nothing. And it wasn't the last time around. It wasn't the time before that. She does not like to be in the public eye. We didn't see her speak at the RNC this time around. 
 
But you know, I remind people, Melania Trump did one solo campaign event during the last election cycle, and it happened one week before Election Day. So we're not there yet. She may do one more. She may not. 
 
But listen, this is a topic that he could really use her getting out there on. 
 
SANCHEZ: Kate, really quick, we have to get your reaction to CNN requesting an interview with her, her publisher coming back saying they wanted $250,000 in exchange. 
 
Apparently, the publisher says that request was made by mistake and that Melania had not nothing to do with that. Your reaction? 
 
BENNETT: I'm not sure it was a mistake. I mean, Melania is very smart about monetizing herself, the most we've heard from her since she left the White House is posting her Christmas ornaments, her NFT, her little tchotchkes on her Web site and on her social media. 
 
Like -- like Donald Trump, she's motivated by capitalism and making money. So I'm not surprised that she wants to attach an appearance fee. Of course obviously, ethically, when journalism is involved, that's not a thing.
 
But I'm not surprised she's -- she wants her -- her money.
 
SANCHEZ: Kate Bennett, appreciate you joining us. Next time, we'll do the interview half shrouded. 
 
BENNETT: Yes. Do that black and white.
 
SANCHEZ: Mysterious. It'll be great. 
 
Thanks so much, Kate. 
 
This just in. Vice President Kamala Harris is on her way to Wisconsin as she gets ready to campaign with former Republican Congresswoman Liz Cheney. We're going to have more on their teaming up for this unusual pairing when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)